Vol. 38.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL, 1910.						No. 9.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
Mark Twain.......................................A. W. C.	65
Mothers’ Day.....................................A. W. C.	65
A Remarkable Woman (Illustrated)................	65
Gems from Mary Johnston.............................	66
Ninety Years of Age.......................................	67
Successful Socials..........................................	67
Brief History of a Famous Woman.................	70
Relief Society Stake Reports:—Ogden, Nebo	72
Editorial:—A Tribute......................................	68
	Land and Inheritances.............................	68
	“The Story of Mormonism”....................	69
	General Relief Society Conference.........	69
In Memoriam...................................................	71
Obituary...........................................................	72
Poetry:—The Bravest Battle... Joaquin Miller	65
	Hymn......................................................	65
	Be of Good Cheer........William W. Story	65
	Resignation......................Emilie Maeser	66
	To Julia...........................Mary A. Freeze	67


THE BRAVEST BATTLE.
The bravest battle that ever was fought!
	Shall I tell you where and when?
On the maps of the world you will find it not;
	’Twas fought by the mothers of men.

Nay, not with cannon, or battle shot,
	With sword or noble pen;
Nay, not with eloquent word or thought,
	From mouths of wonderful men.

But deep in the walled-up woman’s heart—
	Of woman that would not yield,
Bnt bravely, silently bore her part—
	Lo! there is that battle field!

No marshaling troop, no bivouac song;
	No banner to gleam and wave!
But, oh! these battles, they last so long—
	From babyhood to the grave!
                                 —Joaquin Miller.


HYMN.
“Leave God to order all thy ways
And hope in Him whate’er betide
Thou’ll find Him in the evil days,
Thine all-sufficient Strength and Guide,
Who trusts in God’s unchanging love
Builds on the Rock that none can move.”


BE OF GOOD CHEER.
		BY WILLIAM W. STORY.
Be of good cheer, ye firm and dauntless few,
	Whose struggle is to work an unloved good!
	Ye shall be taunted by revilings rude,
Ye shall be scorned for that which ye pursue;
Yet faint not, but be ever strict and true;
	Greatness must learn to be misunderstood;
	And persecution is their bitter food
Who the great promptings of the spirit do.
Though no one seem to hear, yet every word
	That ye have linked unto an earnest thought
Hath fiery wings, and shall be clearly heard
	When your frail lips to silent dust are brought.
God’s guidance keeps those noble thoughts that
	chime
With the great harmony, beyond all time!
								—Ex.


MARK TWAIN.
	In the hurry and rush of life, in this age
of steam and electricity, of stocks and
bonds, of aviators and dirigibles, when
humanity seems rushing alone the stream of
life at a break-neck speed to see who can
outdo his neighbor, what a relief it is to
know that God still lives, and that some-


where among this hurrying mass there are a
few sweet spirits, who can retreat to seques-
tered spots and allow the genius of the
mind to play upon life’s harp and bring
forth music to the soul. No matter how
great the resources of the world may be,
her richest and most precious treasures will
ever be the work of gifted souls. Many
may build halls and palaces, but it is gen-
ius that adorns them. America is mourn-
ing now one of her most gifted sons—Mark
Twain—but he has left his country so rich a
legacy that though his soul has crossed the
bar, his name is emblazoned ever in the
book of fame. It has not, perhaps, ever
occurred before in the history of the world
that a man’s genius should be so marked in
the line of humor. The musicians, the
painters, the writers of greatest fame for
ages past, are those who have taken the
serious, the grand, the divine, the magnifi-
cent themes of heaven and earth for sub-
jects. Then what has Mark Twain done?
Why, he has made the world happy, he has
made the world laugh.
	The busy financier on the train to some
important gathering has forgotten all his
anxieties and sat in silent laughter, perusing
the pages of “Innocence Abroad” so lost in
the mirth of the folded leaves that the porter
has to recall him to his normal condition
when it is time to leave the train. The tired
laborer, after the evening meal, too tired to
sleep, refreshes his soul with a chapter from
“Roughing It,” and after a hearty laugh
has aided his digestion, lies down to pleas-
ant dreams. The helpless invalid in the
roller-chair sits in the park or on the beach
and forgets the pains and sufferings of the
body and chuckles over the discomfitures of
“An American Client,” while busy men re-
new their boyhood, and school boys make
laughter ring over the adventures of Tom
Sawyer and Huckelberry Finn. Women and
girls are stirred to their souls over the heroic
story of “Joan of Arc,” as told by Mark
Twain, and all through the many volumes
where mirth and humor reign, is such a
strain of true philosophy, and such a high
ideal of the lighter vein of life that one
loves the man who thus portrays and gives
to us the silver lining instead of the murky
clouds. One of the brightest stars in Amer-
ica’s constellation is Mark Twain, and when
we talk of monuments to great men let us
not forget the man who made the world to
laugh.
						A. W. C.


MOTHER’S DAY.
“The men of earth build houses—halls and
	chambers, roofs and domes,
The women of the earth—God knows! the women
	build the homes.”

	Mother’s Day—what a word of beauty,
grace and rhythm! Why set apart a day to
worship mother? Is not every day, yea
every hour hers? Who so fills the heart of
man, who so prompts the soul to good, who
so guards the way, as mother? If not by
her presence, by the remembrance of her
teachings, by the influence of her prayers,
Sanctified is she, for the crossing the shadow


of death to give us life. Sanctified for the
succor and nourishment of infancy, for the
guiding and care of childhood, the guard-
ing and delight of youth, the sharing and
help of sorrows and cares that follow one in
manhood. Oh, blessed name, what gar-
lands enhance, what jewels magnify the lus-
tre of your crown! The halo of motherhood
is an adornment for angels, a glory for life
eternal.
	And yet—how sweet the thought that one
day in all the year we can wear some flower,
express some thought, show in some open
way our reverence, our love, our adoration
for the queens of the earth—the mothers.
                                                   A. W. C.


A REMARKABLE WOMAN.
MARGARET P. C. MORRISON.
	Sister Morrison whose demise occurred
Jan. 10, 1910, at Mount Pleasant, Utah,
was a very remarkable character, and one
of the most devoted sisters in the Relief
Society and in the Church. She had lived
to a good old age and her days had been
full of usefulness and rich in the service of
others beside her own family for many
years.

[Image of a woman]

MARGARET F. C. MORRISON.
	Sister Morrison’s maiden name was
Cruikshank, her parents were William
Cruikshank and Mary Farquhar Cruikshank
and she was born in Aberdeen, Scotland,
June 5, 1823, her parents were honest up-
right people in good circumstances and she
received a good common school education,
but being the eldest daughter of a large
family, she was needed at home to assist her
mother in domestic duties in which she
took an especial delight,and was trained in
the home to do everything well, Sister Mor-
rison says, “My dear mother used to say.
‘Maggie whatever you do, do it well, it will
not hurt you to have thorough knowledge
and understanding of what a housewife’s
duty is,’ and,” she adds, “my mother’s kind


[Column 1]
admonition and valuable instructions have
been the joy of my life, and have constantly
been a silent monitor to guide me along
life’s journey,”
	Miss Cruikshank was married December
22, 1843 to William Morrison in the Free
Presbyterian Kirk at Aberdeen by the Rev.
David Simpson, a minister of that church
of which she was a member. She speaks of
her husband as a young man of good repu-
tation who had many noble qualities of
head and heart, he also had received the
advantages of a classical education and was
a fine Latin scholar, and the young couple
began life’s journey together with youth,
health and much happiness and bright pros-
pects before them. In the spring of 1844
the husband received an appointment in
Her Majesty’s Dockyard, Shumess, Kent,
England, and they moved there and on
October 30 of that year a son was born to
them, he was named Arthur Bruce Morrison,
nothing transpired to mar the pleasure of
the home for about three years, then the
husband was taken very ill and in conse-
quence he applied for a removal which Her
Majesty granted immediately, and they re-
moved to Woolwich, where they lived for
some years.
	In the summer of 1848, Mrs. Morrison
made a visit to the home of her childhood,
Aberdeen, Scotland, the home gathering
was a joyful one, while the large company
of relatives were seated at dinner after the
arrival of Sister Morrison and the child, one
of the Aunts remarked “What a sweet boy
that is,” when most unexpectedly the reply
was made, “I’m not a boy. I’m a man,”
which naturally created a ripple of laughter,
he being the first grandchild in the family.
	About six weeks later another son was
born to Mrs. Morrison and named Andrew
Cruikshank Morrison, and soon the mother
began to think of returning home with her
two beautiful boys, and now came the first
trying ordeal. The eldest son was taken
with scarlet fever and died on his birthday
Oct. 31 1848, this was her first great sorrow.
It seemed the way was being opened for a
new era in their life history.
	In the month of November they heard
the Gospel preached by Elder Thomas
Bradshaw, and believing in the divine auth-
enticity of the work, and with a firm deter-
mination to serve God and keep His com-
mandments unitedly, they were baptized for
the remission of sins and had hands laid on
them for the reception of the Holy Ghost.
With the signs following this great event,
their aim was to gather to Zion and their
future course was shaped accordingly.
	To the writer such incidents in the lives
of our people are very interesting, and show
plainly the Lord’s dealings with those, whom
He has called to serve Him and do His
work in these latter days. Many circum-
stances transpired about this time in Mrs.
Morrison’s father’s family that had a direct
bearing upon their future welfare. Mrs.
Morrison’s father received an appointment
that caused him to break up his home in
Scotland and move to Dartmoor, Devon-
shire, England, and with his family he made
a new home there; in the meantime her sis-
ter Isabella married Mr. James Treston and
came to reside near the Morrisons in Wool-
wich; her death occurred in Feb. 1852, this
was a great sorrow, and about that time a
daughter was born to Mrs. Morrison, this
was her second daughter, both her beautiful
boys had died and she felt her sorrow was
more than she could endure, but the Lord
in his mercy and goodness gave her strength

[Column 2]
equal to her day, and she was able to meet
with fortiude every emergency. After this
the family commenced in good earnest to
prepare for the journey to America, the land
of their adoption. The time set was April,
1854, and accordingly all the arrangements
were made preparatory to leaving England.
	In the fall of 1853 her father came to make
a visit and take a last farewell, and he
thought perhaps he could prevail upon them
to change their views on religious matters;
but in this he found he was mistaken, fail-
ing in this he tried to get his daughter to
consent not to see her mother again, but she
would not at any price, and soon after he
returned home, Mrs Morrison with her two
little girls, and her motherless nephew, left
to pay her mother a visit in Devonshire, her
youngest brother was living in Aberdeen and
she visited them all and had a most delight-
ful time. Her mother would listen to the
Gospel reasoning and was greatly benefited
with the conversations. At last the hour
came when she must part with her beloved
mother and the parting was most painful,
she never saw her again, her father too shed
tears, something she had never witnessed
before in all her life. However he found
she had a will of her own, and could not be
persuaded from the right path even by him,
he confessed he was proud of her but could
not see things in the light that she did, yet
he admired her courage and her parents
both said their constant aspiration should
be for her future happiness and prosperity,
and if ever she was in need of help to call
on them and they would help her to the ex-
tent of their ability. Just before leaving
England Mrs. Morrison received a letter
frem her mother containing some very path-
etic verses, expressing her great love and
good wishes also entering into the deepest
emotions of the mother-heart in parting with
one dearer than life itself.
	Sister Morrison says in a sketch written
for reference, “I loved my mother with a
love unspeakable and hope she will be the
first to greet me with my husband and
“Tina” when my spirit leaves this earthly
body.” “Tina” was her youngest daughter
whose death she mourned deeply.
	The Morrisons sailed from Liverpool,
England, on the Germanieus, on the 6th of
April, 1854, the journey across the Atlantic
was long and tedious, eleven weeks from
date of starting before they reached New
Orleans, all were in good health, not one of
the family had been sea-sick, not an hour,
the next day the party sailed for St. Louis
and were two weeks on the Mississippi river,
when reaching their destination, the pass-
engers were not permitted to land, but the
boat was towed back to a small island near
by where they had to remain by order of
the authorities, and they had only been there
one day when the people began to take
sick and in one week’s time 80 persons died
of cholera. Sister Morrison had a severe
attack but through the mercy of God she
was restored to health, a petition was sent
to the authorities to allow the people to
leave that dreadful place, but in many cases
it was too late for disease laid hold of its
victims and many were doomed to an early
grave, and among the number were Sister
Morrison’s two darling girls and the orphaned
son of her sister, they all three lay side by
side in the Holy Ghost cemetery in St. Louis
Mo. Surely her sorrow was great, left
childless in a strange land broken down in
body, she says, “it seemed to her then as if
nothing could compensate for the loss she
had sustained,” yet the Lord was mindful

[Column 3]
of her and in January, 1855, a daughter was
born to the sorrowing parents, that brought
sunshine to their home once more, but they
were only permitted to enjoy her sweet com-
pany for a short period, in November of
the same year they were robbed of that little
blossom by death.
	It is very painful to contemplate
the sufferings of the Saints in those
early journeyings from distant homes, but
Sister Morrison’s experiences fitted her to
be an instrument in the hands of the Lord
to comfort and console many thousands dur-
ing her life-work.
	In the spring of 1856, Brother and Sister
Morrison again turned their faces Zionward.
			(To be Continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


GEMS FROM MARY JOHNSTON.
	I know women have, many of them, a sin-
uous, an indirect way of approaching and 
of obtaining the object or the end which
they desire. It is a grave fault—perhaps
their gravest. But,	*	*	*	*
who is responsible for it? Today, from half
the pulpits of the land, by the press, by 
whom not, woman is told, “Continue as you
are! Pursue the methods you were forced
to use when you were the cowering mate of
a savage half as strong again as you! Do
as you did when you were Elizabeth of
Hungary, and your lord demanded what you 
carried gathered in your apron. Say as you 
said then, “Roses,” although, in fact, it is
bread for the poor!  Do as you did when
you were Godiva of Coventry. Petition;
and however degrading a price your lord ex-
acts for the lifted tax, pay it! Beg; and if
refused, manoeuvre!” It is not improbable 
that the phrase which, in the next few years,
will become most distasteful to a naturally
self-respecting and straightforward woman
—and there are hundreds of thousands of
such—will be the phrase “indirect influence.”
	Man will remain the more dynamic, wom-
an the more static. He will discover, in-
vent, adorn, draw aside inch by inch the veil
from the face of knowledge, build the ship,
build the sea-wall, the lighthouse, the mu-
seum, and the temple. As with the birds, 
he has the richer song, the more brilliant
plumage. She will conserve the species;
she will instruct the youth of both sexes, and
to a large extent the reins of administration
will fall into her hands. One generation of
practical training, and as admistrator she
will be the equal of man; two generations,
and she will be his superior.
	Women make able sovereigns. The wis-
dom of Pericles was largely the wisdom of
Aspasia. Elizabeth of England will bal-
ance Charles the Fifth, Catherine the Sec-
ond balance Frederick the Great, Victoria
equal Franz Joseph. The list of great sov-
ereigns is long. The list of women who
have been the power behind the throne is
long; the list of able consorts and regents is
long, and the list of women who have influ-
enced the king’s ministers is long. Here is 
native ability, innate power; and, like mur-
der, it will out. There is really no reason to
suppose that in a democracy a woman would
not do well as a town-councilor, as a member
of the board of health, or even, at a pinch,
as a mayor. Maternal instinct is a curious
thing. It is something like nature in that it
can care, with a whole-souled intensity, for 
one little honey-bee winging its way toward
a clover blossom; and also, by a simple act
of expansion, for all the bees in the hive,
and all the clover in the field.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RESIGNATION.
I know not if He heareth all my pleading,
Or why He answers not my every call;
I know not why for me life’s sun is shaded
Nor all the lessons I should learn.

I know not yet His purposes unfolding,
And why some blessings are withheld,
I know not how tomorrow will be ended,
The hour will bring of joy or pain.

But this I know, His will shall be my own—
His hand shall guide my faltering steps,
And lead me on to heights unknown,
Where I shall see His glorious face.
				EMILIE MAESER.


TO JULIA.
Let me tell you why I love you—
	Why we’re to each other dear:
’Tis because we dwelt together
	In a higher, holier sphere.
Reared by the same fond parents,
	Taught in the same great schools— 
E’en the colleges of the nobles,
	And observed their righteous rules.

So, when we met in earth-life,
	The same old kinship true
Brought each unto the other—
	A mystic tie drew me to you.
We see alike the Gospel plan
	Which we had known before;
And we revel in its music,
	Just as we did of yore—

When the morning stars together
	Sang that anthem sweet and grand,
We were ’mong that sacred number—
	That glorious vocal band;
And we heard the mighty shouting
	Of our brothers tried and true,
That another earth’s foundation
	Had been laid—for well we knew
That we should dwell upon it,
	In a second grand estate,
With power to win that glory
	For which all the righteous wait,
And rejoice with Father, mother,
	As in the primeval life,
If we could through this life’s wanderings
	Do good deeds with honor rife.

We were ’mong the highly favored,
	Kept back until latter days,
When the Gospel in its fulness
	Would shed its glorious rays
O’er all of earth’s dominions,
	Uplifting fallen man,
Revealing truths kept hidden,
	According to God’s plan.

Well might His sons be joyful,
	His daughters, too, sing praise,
As, looking down time’s vista,
	They saw these wondrous days,
When they should stand as saviors
	Upon Mount Zion fair,
Redeeming friends and kindred
	In the holy temples there,
That the chains which had been broken
	Might be welded once again,
For great ones thus had spoken,
	And all echoed the amen.

We are of the blood of Israel,
	A noble prince was he,
And we hope to be an honor
	To our royal family.
Tho’ born among the lowly,
	We will rise to heights unknown,
And, as saviors on Mount Zion,
	Be entitled to a throne.
					Mary A. Freeze.


[Column 1]
NINETY YEARS OF AGE.
	Sister Catherine Wingot, now residing in
Monroe, Utah, has recently reached her
ninetieth year, March 12, 1910. This aged
woman has had a remarkable life experi-
ence. She was born March 12, 1820 in
Nelson, Portage County, Ohio, her parents
were Charles Hewlett and Margaret Noah

[Column 2]
Hewlett, they were baptized into the “Mor-
mon Church in February 1830. Catherine
was baptized in the spring of 1831, in
Nelson, Portage County, Ohio, by Simon
Shrider.
	In the spring of 1832, the family moved
to Jackson Co. Missouri, and were driven
out of that county in November, 1833; they
went about sixty miles away into Van Buren
Co, there they stayed a few months only
until with some other Saints they went back
to Jackson Co., to get something to live
upon.
	They next went to Clay Co., Missouri and
remained there about three years afterwards
again went to Far West, from where they
were again driven by the mobs.
	Sister Wingot says when she was about
nineteen years old the family went to Illin-
ois, and settled in a place about thirty
miles from Nauvoo. She well remembers
attending the first conference held in Nau-
voo, on April 7, 1841—conference time—
Catherine Hewlett was married to Cyrus
Wingot. After her marriage she and her
husband moved to Adams Co., Illinois, but
in a short time moved again to Golden
Point, seven miles from Nauvoo.
	At the time of the martyrdom of the
Prophet Joseph and the Patriarch Hyrum
Smith, Sister Wineot’s husband stood
guard in Nauvoo, while she with two little
children stayed in her own home seven
miles away from there.
	After the death of the Prophet they had
to move to Nauvoo for safety.
	Sister Wingot says they left Nauvoo in
1846, and went over into Iowa, where they
lived one year, her husband working at his
trade as a cooper. They started off in the
spring of 1847 and traveled as far as Pisgah
a Mormon camp, a company was fitted out
at that place and her husband was called
as a pioneer to go on and with their three
children came on to Utah that year, and ar-
rived in Utah October 1, 1847. In the spring
of 1848 she says they had one bushel of
grain to put in the ground, and they raised
seven bushels from it though the crickets
took the crops and garden stuff that year,
and the people, as is well known, had little
left to live upon, she says, “we lived mostly
on thistle roots and almost anything we
could get out of the ground.
	The family remained in Salt Lake three
years, then moved to Springville and stayed
there about three years, until they were
called to go to Cedar City, Iron Co., to help
strengthen that place against the Indians.
	Sister Wingot says “my husband died a
few months after we left Springville in 1854,
at that time we had six children, seven
months after his death another daughter
was born.”
	“Afterwards I went back with my chil-
dren to Springville to make my home, and
some years after I married again and had
another child.”
	Sister Wingot is the mother of eight chil-
dren, all well respected in later years she
has lived in Provo and in Payson and also
in Manti, where she resided for ten years.
Since 1871, she has lived in Monroe, with
her children. Her oldest son died two years
and a half ago at the age of 65 years, she
has a large posterity, of grand-children and
great-grand-children and one great-great-
grandchild.
	The sisters who visited her recently and
collected this information for the Woman’s
Exponent testify that her intellect and mem-
ory is very good, and she is able to attend

[Column 3]
meetings at times and bears as strong a
testimony of the Gospel as she ever did,
	Lovingly your Sisters,
			CHRISTINA MORTENSON, 
				Pres. R. S. Sevier Stake,
			MARY M. SWINDLE,
				Secretary.


SUCCESSFUL SOCIALS.
	The Relief Society of the Dublin branch
(Irish conference) met on March 17, 1910,
at the home of Sister Jordan. The elders
laboring in Dublin, and Elder J. T. Wise
from the Newry branch, were present. Pres-
dent Minnie Parker presided and reported
the branch to be in good condition. This
society was organized in 1907 by Sister Ro-
mania B- Penrose.
	At six o’clock Thursday evening, March
17th, 1910, the Saints of the Dublin branch
(Irish conference) met at the meeting room
and enjoyed themselves in a social, celebrat-
ing the anniversary of the organization of
the society, and also St. Patrick’s Day. An
interesting program was rendered, some of
the friends of the Saints giving valuable as-
sistance.
	The Relief Society of the Liverpool branch
(Liverpool conference) gave a fine social on
the evening of March 17th, 1910, the anni-
versary of the organization of this great so-
ciety. A good program was rendered by lo-
cal talent, President Penrose acting as mas-
ter of ceremonies. A feature of the program
was the reading by Sister Penrose of extracts
from the speech delivered by the Prophet
Joseph on that memorable day, March I7th,
1842, when the society was brought into be-
ing, the first women’s society in the world.
	An excellent program was enjoyed by the
Saints of the Swinton branch (Manchester
conference), during the evening of March
19th. The object of the affair was two-fold,
partly for the benefit of the Relief Society
and partly to honor one of the members of
the society who will leave for America short-
ly. A nice work box was given the sister
who is leaving. Over £1 was collected to
aid the society.
	The social held in Forester’s Hall, Hull
(Hull conference), March 21st, 1910, was a
success. It is only fair to say those who
took part as well as those who worked for its
successful outcome, did so in a very credit-
able manner. The listeners are also worthy
mention as they were not few in number.
The program was of a high class. A small
charge was made for admission, which will
go to purchase hymn books for the Sunday
School.
	A fine box party was given under the au-
spices of the Belfast Relief Soeiety at 40
Donegal Street Chambers, Belfast, on Thurs-
day March 17th, 1910, celebrating the sixty-
eighth anniversary of the organization, of the
Relief Society. A lively and entertaining
program was rendered by the elders and
members of the branch. Lunches were pre-
pared by the sisters and arranged two in a
box and sold, the net proceeds going to the
Relief Society to aid them in their labor of
love.		ROMANIA B. PENROSE.


Ellis Meredith, suffragist, author and club-
woman, has been nominated by the new
Citizens’ Party of Denver for election com-
missioner.
	Mme. Curie has been elected a member of
the American Philosophical Society. Hers
was the only woman’s name on the list of
fifteen members elected.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

			Woman’s Exponent

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop’s
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p.m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.		-	-	APRIL, 1910.


[Column 1]
			A TRIBUTE.
	PRESIDENT JOHN R. WINDER.
	President Winder was not only a pioneer
because of coming early in the fifties to this
valley, but in many lines of business and
affairs in general, certainly one of the most
active, earnest and energetic men in the
Church. Sound in doctrine, and conscien-
tious in principle, fatherly to the young
men in the relations of advice and employ-
ment, all around enterprising and prudent
in whatever he advised or undertook to do,
and he engaged in many enterprises, and
carried them forward with signal success.
	So much has been written of him that it
seems only a repetition to add the little that
is now possible, yet we desire to give our
meed of praise, to a man who has done so
much to build up our commonwealth.
	He will be missed everywhere, in the
Church and in the state, his kindly face and
beaming countenance made one feel better
even to look upon him. Everybody loved
him and trusted him without guarantee, he
needed no passport for wherever he went
his manner and bearing insured confidence
and respect. He bore the stamp of one of
nature’s noblemen. Brother Winder really
lived the simple life, so much talked of and
written about in this our day. True to him-
self, true to his brethren, unflinching in his
integrity in the maintenance of justice and
equity.
	But President Winder has gone after
weeks of patient suffering, hovering as it
were between life and death, he passed
peacefully over to the “other side,” out of
our sight, and we shall see his pleasant
smile no more; until we too may be called
home, to join that innumerable company
who have gone before.
		“Beyond life’s toil and cares,
Its hopes and joys, its weariness and sorrow,
Its sleepless nights, its days of smiles and tears,
Will be an endless life unmarked by years,
		One bright unending morrow.
		Ear hath not heard that song
Of rapturous praise within that shining portal;
No heart of man hath dreamed what joys belong
To that redeemed and happy blood-washed throng,
		All glorious and immortal.”
	The eloquent tributes paid to the memory
of President Winder in the Salt Lake papers
and magazines attest the strength and
and beauty of his long life of vigor and use-
fulness in the work of the Lord in these last
days. He was permitted to receive all the
blessings and privileges pertaining to a ful-

[Column 2]
ness of the Priesthood and exaltation, and
how grateful his family should be that his
career in this probation has entitled them,
if they prove faithful, to a fulness of the
blessings vouchsafed to him. There is no
need to mourn, only to follow in his foot-
steps to reach the heights he has obtained.
The hymns he loved to have sung in the
Temple seem suited to him now no doubt,
“There is Sunshine” in his noble heart to-
day, he has met with his loved ones gone
before and “All is Well.”
	John Rex Winder was born in Biddenden
Kent, England, December 10, 1821. Died
in Salt Lake City, Utah, March 27, 1910.
	The funeral services of this remarkable
man were held in the Salt Lake Tabernacle
at 11 a. m., March 31, 1910. Loving and
eloquent tributes were given by those who
knew him best, and had been closely asso-
ciated with him, and every token of respect
and honor possible paid to him. At the
grave that glorious hymn “Rest, on the
Hillside Rest” was rendered by sweet voices
most touchingly tender.
	To the writer, the saddest and loneliest
one of all, bereft of his society and compan-
onship, is the young wife married to him
some years after he was left without a wife
in that lonely home; he made choice of
Miss Maria Burnham, and it really seemed
a love match, they were devotedly attached
to each other and she has been his constant,
companion, never leaving him for any other
society during the happy years of their
wedded life.
	Our sympathy goes out to this dear,
lonely wife bereft of his solicitude and com-
pany. 
	E’en if weary and broken-hsarted,
		With that which thou deemest loss:
	Although from thy dearest one parted,
		He will help thee bear thy cross;
	And if the ordeal seems cruel,
		Thy Father will make it right,
	And the brighter thy precious jewel
		Will shine in the realms of night.


[Column 1]
	LAND AND INHERITANCES.
	In this wonderful day of great progress in
many directions of activity and skill, it may
seem undesirable and at any rate common-
place to go back to the subject of farms,
homes and grainfields an occupation much
neglected and for some years at least rather
unpopular, with the masses. Conditions
have taken such rapid strides forward that
the tillers of the soil are only thought of as
plodders, and in a sense by the larger num-
ber counted out of society.
	The first commandment given to Adam
after he was cast out of the garden of Eden
was to till the ground (and men are not yet
restored to Eden), and those who really en-
joy life most are agriculturists, they are the
men who are truly the most independent,
and in the course of events according to the
wise, the prudent calculators, and far-seeing
thinkers it will become a positive, necessity
to get more out of the soil to sustain human
life.
	As a nation we are proud of our college
graduates, professors, scientists, mathema-
ticians, musicians, etc., and the many more
who come to the front ranks, but they must
all be fed, and the soil must yield an abun-
dance of the various products thereof, if the
growing millions are to have plenty to sus-
tain life.
	The western land is productive and with
all the facilities of the present day, imple-
ments and machinery far more than was

[Column 2]
ever known before, keeping up a small
farm would be the best investment a young
man could make. The agricultural re-
sources must be developed and farms main-
tained, otherwise all else fails, there must
be bread for the multitude. We cannot be
ignorant of this great fact, that underlies all
human life, whatever else we may do with-
out we must have bread, the staff of life it
is the dependence of all progress, of all
prosperity and of individual existence.
	Doubtless mothers are as much to blame
as fathers in this regard, children should be
taught early not only that all honest work
is honorable, but that tilling the land is up-
lifting in its very nature because it is nearest
to nature’s heart.
	Out-door life and employment tends to
health and longevity. The idea that every
one must own land and cultivate it, was
largely general in earlier times, and in the
18th century in the Eastern States, a man
or a family who were not land owners were
looked down upon.
	The writer recalls the fact that in her
childhood people who lived in rented houses
were not thought on a par with others, now
the tables are turned, so to speak, and living
in crowded apartments without breathing
room scarcely is the height of fashion. To
have and to hold in one’s own right a home
and land gives one an independent feeling
of satisfaction, that is buoyant to the spirit
and soul. The scriptnral saying to sit un-
der one’s own vine and fig tree is significant
strictly speaking.
	The counsel given and the principles in-
culcated and acted upon by Brigham Young
in the settlement of those valleys was cal-
culated to create happiness and a responsi-
bility praiseworthy and beneficial to human
character. That every family should have
a piece of ground, a city lot, sufficient for
building a suitable home and a garden spot
and orchard. This policy was carried out
for rome years, not only was this wise and
expedient but profitable as well, and the
city was beautiful and attractive, artistically
so in the best sense.
	The great authors and statesnen in the
past, many of them have been men who
were fond of out-door occupation, one may
say, for relaxation perhaps, but positively
enjoyed it; it is well known that Gladstone,
one of the greatest statesmen of England,
was noted for felling trees. We as a people
profess to believe in the gospel of work, and
in short it is taught in the Scriptures and the
Doctrine and Covenants, and therefore we
must believe in farms and inheritances and
in owning land; we all know how fre-
quently the Lord has spoken to His people
in different ages of the world upon the sub-
ject of inheritances. It is not possible in a
short article to go into details on this sub-
ject but to sound a warning note to mothers
in reference to teaching the children in the
home, that farming is the one occupation
and that in which men can really feel the most
independent, and that farmers are gentle-
men. It is easy to recall the counsel of
Brigham Young and others on this subject,
especially when the mines began to be
opened here in the West, and how he urged
the people to stay on their farms instead of
running after gold dust. One of the greatest
writers of the day says:
	“Trade and manufacture however profit-
able must yield to the cultivation of lands
in usefulness and dignity.”
	If we go back to first principles every-
thing depends upon the soil; history points
to agriculture, and its varied losses and sue-


cesses as a powerful element in the rise and
fall of nations. The main reliance of France
is its fertile fields and gardens producing
agricultural wealth. It has been calculated
that the vineyards of France are more than
equivalent to the gold and silver mines of
America.
	The food problem is fast becoming a seri-
ous question, and it is not only essential to
our people to store wheat, but to teach the
children of today the dignity of farming of
tilling the soil, and beginning with garden-
ing on a small scale when they are very
young.
	These are merely suggestions, and we do
most earnestly entreat our sisters in the Re-
lief Society to persevere in their efforts to
store grain, and take precious good care of
the little we can collect and add to it as
much as possible while the harvests are
plentiful, and urge the youth of Zion to
maintain the possessions of our people in
the land of Zion, for the homes of the
people are the intrinsic wealth of the land.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


“THE STORY OF MORMONISM.”
	Our people should not think that the facts
and incidents relating to the rise and spread
and growth of Mormonism have been ex-
hausted as yet in what has been published.
We have many writers who have put mat-
ter in concrete form, tracts, pamphlets and
books on this inexhaustible subject, but all
has not been told and there is room for
many more authors and writers to give from
their point of view, stories, poems, and pro-
found histories and short sketches, in fact
Mormonism so called is rich in higher
themes than the ordinary student of the sub-
ject is apt to imagine.
	The new book recently issued by Dr.
James E. Talmage will appeal to a class of
people outside of the Church, in a telling
manner, its simplicity of style, its richness
of language, its depth of religious sentiment,
the graphic manner of interesting the reader
make it altogether a charming narrative for
a pocket companion on a journey or for re-
laxation by the fireside at home.
	It is one of the books that will be read,
and let us hope studied. Perhaps there is
no other body of religious people that re-
quire such a variety of books and of all
kinds of entertainment (and we might add
amusement if we had the courage to say it)
as the Mormons. At any rate we commend
this book by Prof. Talmage to our youth and
to our people generally and to the outside
world. We would like to see it printed in
other languages and sent abroad. From our
standpoint it is high-class literature, and we
are very glad that a busy professional man
like Dr. Talmage has contributed this little
book to the libraries of the people.


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The conference of the General Relief So-
ciety was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this City, April 1 and 2, 1910, com-
mencing Friday, April 1, at 2 p. m., Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith presiding. There
was a large gathering of members and a few
brethren present. Conference opened with
congregational singing, Sister L. T. Ed-
ward musical director, leading; Sister Ed-
na Coray accompanist—“Guide us O, thou
great Jehovah.” Prayer, Sister Emma S.
Woodruff singing, “Though deep’ning,
trials” etc. President Bathsheba W. Smith’s
“Greeting” welcomed the audience in a few

[Column 2]
tender and gracious words; expressed her
great pleasure in meeting them, and would
like to take them all in her arms and bless
them, every one; she rejoiced to see so many
present, realized the good work they were do-
ing and hoped they would have a good time
while attending the conference.
	The response was made by Sister Margar-
et Romney, president of Ensign Stake Re-
lief Society, who was very much pleased to
respond, she always tried to do the best she
could, felt highly grateful to be present and
to meet our beloved President Bathsheba
W. Smith, felt to bless the name of our
Prophet who organized this great work, and
prayed that every gift of health and joy, and
every good thing she desired be given unto
our dear President, and her life prolonged as
long as she desired. Amen.
	Duet, “I will magnify thee, O God,” Liz-
zie Thomas Edward and Thomas E. Ash-
worth.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry said:
“We should always have gratitude in our
hearts for the beautiful music, and I think
whenever I hear Sister Smith bear her test-
imony of the truth, how blest we are only to
think she is the only woman who was pres-
ent at that great organization of this soci-
ety.” The speaker referred to the lesson she
had given recently, in teaching her class in
the college about the Prophet, and the pic-
ture of the Father and Son appearing to the
Prophet had never come before her as at that
time; told how she had wished for a vision
when she stood on Angel Point in the Grand
Canyon of Colorado; referred to her mother
taking her out at night to see the stars and
moon, and saying to her when she inquired
why she did so, explaining they were the
only things in all the world her mother could
see the same time as she looked upon them.
Sister Dusenberry related a dream she had
that had taught her a beautiful lesson; then
she referred to some of the greatest poets,
alluded to Dante’s tragedy and Milton’s Par-
adise Lost, the greatest epic poem, and it
had been written late in life, thought many
great things were accomplished late in the
evening of life. Michael Angelo painted and
designed some of his greatest works late in
life, and what could be more beautiful and
grand than going on and on and on, to the
great eternity. The most beautiful example
was the life of our late President Winder.
Many beautiful things are done even after
eighty and sometimes ninety; the mother,
after she has reared the family and the
wrinkles have come and the silver hair, she
still goes on with loving service for those she
loves; we all have obstacles to overcome
and prayer will sometime be answered, it
will come eventually. She read a little poem
for trying hours, and said there isn’t much
room in the world for older people; one of-
ten hears this saying, and then I think, oh,
we and every man and every woman whose
hair has become grey, we need their experi-
ence, we need their example and their coun-
sel. She had once seen a grandfather play-
ing a game with his two little grandsons,
and she thought how beautiful for the old
man to be young like that. The most
beautiful things have been written, the most
beautiful things have been painted when the
heart was tender.” Sister Dusenberry closed
by reading one of Eugene Field’s beautiful
poems, and said “God bless you. Amen.”
	Big Horn, Emery, and Blackfoot Stakes
were called to report. President Juliette
Blackburn of Blackfoot Stake reported that
it was a new Stake, and the Board were new-
ly appointed but were united in their work,

[Column 3]
and gave some statistics, and made an ex-
cellent statement about saving grain, spoke
of the pleasure she felt in remembering the
General Board of the Relief Society in her
prayers, and all our good sisters.
	Master Bryan Jenson sang with much feel-
ing, “Joseph Smith’s First Prayer."
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne—Address.
	Anniversaries, The Eightieth and the Six-
ty-eighth.
	“I think I never stood before the Saints of
God without feeling that I had the faith and
prayers of the audience, but today I feel that
I must especially ask the sisters for their
faith, for I realize what a stupendous subject
I have, and many eloquent speakers have
spoken upon this subject before, however, I
want to say that I have felt strengthened by
the beautiful singing of this little boy. I
shall not attempt to deal largely with this
subject, the organization of the Church, and
the organization of the Relief Society, but
only to express a few thoughts that came to
me this morning. There is certainly nothing
more sacred to us today than the life of
Christ, given in the New Testament for a
pattern for our daily lives, but in order to
fulfil the prophecy of it, it was necessary for
Joseph Smith to come. There had been a
great falling away, and the world was in ut-
ter darkness. The earth was waiting for a
change.
	Sister Dusenberry has spoken beautifully
of old age, and I would speak to you of
youth. It seems to me that God has spok-
en to the earth through youth. I am re-
minded of how God came to Samuel and
spoke through him, then when the Lord
called Jesse to bring his sons before Him,
he refused the older ones, but selected Da-
vid the younger who was tending the herds
in the field, and David was the only man in
all Israel to go against the Philistines.
Where in all the earth would greater faith
be found than in this child. And so when
the Gospel was to be restored, it is not sur-
prising that He brought it through a youth.
	“The forests were God’s first temples,”
so the poet says, and Joseph sought the
Lord in a forest, and there he prayed and
prayed, and behold a light came o’er him
and he saw the Father and the Son and he
heard the voice of the Lord. He knew that
if he told this, people would doubt him, but
his people believed him, and knew that he
spake the truth. Three years later when
Moroni came he was more ready for him, 
and to receive the special messages that
came to him, and finally when the Book of
Mormon was completed he was then twenty-
four years old. The Melchizedek priesthood
had been given and everything was ready
for the organization of the Church. To all
of us there is nothing more beautiful than
the organization of this great faith into a
Church. Joseph Smith had the broadest
comprehension and understanding of woman
and when he organized the Relief Society he
fully appreciated the necessity and oppor-
tunity of women joining with the priesthood,
and he said he would make of them high
priestesses. I know there are many things
I meant to speak of that the Prophet taught
the Relief Society, one thing was to provide
work for the able bodied. While it is beau-
tiful to take care of the needy and infirm it is
also necessary to provide means of sustain-
ing life. I also think we ought to look after
the orphan or in some way as a committee,
we ought never to be satisfied until there is
no more grief and no more sorrow, perhaps
until Christ shall come again upon the
earth.


Some announcements were made and
singing “Do what is right,” etc, Confer-
ence adjourned until Saturday at 10 a. m.
Benediction was pronounced by President
Bathsheba W. Smith.
			E. B. WELLS, Sec. 
		A. W. CANNON, Sec. pro tem.


70
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
[Column 1]
	Some announcements were made and
singing "Do what is right," etc, Confer-
ence adjourned until Saturday at 10 a.m.
Benediction was pronounced by President
Bathsheba W. Smith.
		E.B. Wells. Sec.
	A.W. Cannon, Sec. pro tem.

BRIEF HISTORY OF A FAMOUS WOMAN.

	This sketch of Sister Pratt, wife of Elder
Parley P.Pratt, is only a hundredth part of
what might be written of any one of our
sisters who have helped to lay the founda-
tion of woman's work in the Church and
who are entitled to a representation in the
annals of history. President Young gave
this mission to the editor of the WOMAN's
EXPONENT, "Write the lives of the noble
women who with their husbands, helped to
build up Zion." The WOMAN'S EXPONENT
already contains many short notices of wo-
men whose lives of devotion to the cause of
truth and righteousness are an example to
the daughters of Zion, and whose names
should be known and held in honorable re-
membrance.—Editor.
	Belinda Madden Pratt was born in Chi-
chester, Merrimack County, New Hamp-
shire, on December 24th, 1810. She was
the seventh daughter and fourteenth child
of her parents John Marden and Rachel
Shaw Marden.
	Her parents were strictly moral, and
members ef the Congregational Church.
Her father died just before she reached the
Age of fourteen, aged sixty-one. Her mother-
er lived to the age of eighty-three.
	Her father had a large farm, orchard
and garden. A large and roomy house, and
several barns. He was selectman of the town
and looked after the poor. bringing some of
them to live in a part of his house during
the winter season.
	Being of a bright and cheerful dispo-
sition, and the pet of the family, Belinda
spent a happy childhood. Her brothers and
sisters married one by one, until she was
left the only child at home except an invalid
brother. One sister married a Potter, Eunice
married a Procter, and Lydia a minister by
the name of Kimball. After her father's
death she was lonely, and, desiring more
education than she could get in her native
town, she went to live with her sister Lydia
Kimball, in Nashua, New Hampshire, where
she attended school. Later she moved to
Boston.
	She was continually seeking to know
which religious creed was right, never feel-
ing assured that those denominations with
which she was acquainted were right.
	The following is from a letter written by
herself:
	"In the winder of 1843 a friend and my-
self were attracted by a hand bill stating that
A Mormon Preacher would hold three meet-
iugs in the Roylston Hall, not having any-
thing to hinder us we went in to hearhim. The
Elder waa at prayer and such a remarkable
prayer. We stood iu the aisle till he finished
I think the light of Heaven rester down
upon me, for the joy and peace I experienced
were inexpressible. We attended the three
meetings morning—afternoon and evening.
I had an overwhelming testimony that what
he preached was true, and was so rejoiced
That I seemed to myself light as air, as
though my feet scarcely touched the ground.
This scripture came to my mind, 'My sheep
hear my voice and they follow me, and an-
other they will not follow.'

[Column 2]
	"I wrote to my sisters. They thought I
must be crazy. All opposed me. All that
I could do was to continually cry to the
Lord. I was baptized in Boston one day in
March. It was so cold that the ice had to
be broken and was held back with pole
while I went in, I think it was near the
last of March, 1843; do not know the exact
date. I was so conversant with the scrip-
tures, that with the testimony of the Spirit
I knew the doctrine preached by the Elders
was true. I very much wished I could
gather with the Saints at Nauvoo.
	"In the Spring of 1844 there were quite
A number of the Elders from Nauvoo, and
the branch there in Boston was quite large.
Parley P. Pratt, Erastus Snow, Georgs J.
Adams and others wsre there. I did not
mingle much with the Saints because of the
opposition I had to encounter.
	"In the month of June eight of the twelve
apostles came east to electioneer for Joseph
Smith for President of the United States.
They were Brigham Young, Weber C. Kim-
Ball, Orson Pratt, Wilford Woodruff, Lyman
Wight and others I do not remember.
	"An elder invited Brigham Young to
come to see me. He came, and I told him
I was about to go on a visit for some weeks
in the eountry to see relatives. He said,
"when you go, go to the clerk of the branch,
get a letter of recommendation, and I
will call you and see you again.' This was in 
July. He did not call again, for the Twelve
got news of the death of Joseph and Hyrum
Smith, and made immediate arrangements
to go home to Nauvoo.
	"I went according to the counsel of Pres-
ident Young, fearing and trembling. I did
not know what I was going to do, or how I
could live under the pressure, for all my
relatives were so bitter, all I could do was
to pray continually to the Lord, and He
surely heard my prayers.
	I went to the clerk for my letter of recom-
endation although I could not see what good
it would do to get it when I was just going
on a visit. But to be obedient to counsel
I went. Now see God's hand! While the
clerk was writing Lyman Wight who stood
by said privately "Why don't you you go to
Nauvoo?
	I said: "How can I?"
	He said: "We, that is the twelve' start
in the morning. You can go with us.'
	I said: "I could not start for the coun-
try till the next day after." I said too, "I
should not have money to go so long a jour-
ney." Lyman Wlght finally told me In the
Name of the Lord, God of Israel, If I would
go I would never see the day I would be
sorry. I said I would go, He told me there
was a sister in Utica, New York, he thought
would help me to money for my journey.
He would go there if he could, if not, he
would write to her. He gave me her ad-
dress. I got my letter of recommendation,
went heme and began my preparations to
go. I sent from me eldest brother, thinking
to confide in him, but when he came I made
some other reason for wishing to see him,
for the Spirit whispered that if I told a liv-
ing soul I would be hindered. I had to start
North instead of West to visit my relatives
as some accompanied me to the depot and
found myself alone at the first station, I
ordered my trunk and told the conductor
I would have to go back to Boston.
	Took the next train starting west.
	I had not the least compunction of con-
science or one thought that I was doing

[Column 3]
wrong. My heart was filled with joy and
thanksgiving. I never doubted for one mo-
ment, but that I should get along all
right, and that God would bless me.
	July 22, 1844, at 5 o'clock p. m. I
started in a second class train thinking to
save money by it, but a drunken man was
so insulting I was obliged to call the con-
ductor and get on a first class car and pay
full price.
	I reached Springfield, Mass., and staid
over night at a hotel. At seven in the
morning started for Utica, arriving about
seven in the evening, took a carriage and
drove to Sister Monroe's, as Brother Wight
had directed. He had written to her asking
her to help me to means to pursue my journey
to Nauvoo. I found her and her daughters
and sisters a very agreeable family, and we
had a night of rejoicing.
	Sister Monroe was a widow and had no
immediate means; I told her I was a dress-
maker, and she found me plenty of work.
I made dresses and satchels for two months,
and then her sister, afterwards Mrs. Ruth
Reese Kimball, and I started on our jour-
ney alone about fifteen hundred miles to
Nauvoo. I need not say we had many ad-
ventures, traveling as we were alone without
a protector, and some people traveling along
were not very pleasant ones, but the Great
Father protected us and we accomplished
our journey in safety arriving in Nauvoo the
last of September. It was midnight when
the boat on which we were traveling touched
the landing at Nauvoo.
	James Monroe, a brother to Ruth Reese,
came for us and escorted us to Sister Claw-
son's who was a sister to Ruth.
	I soon found employment at dressmaking
and many kind friends. President Young
welcomed me and blessed me.
	In my mind I had accepted all ths revel-
ations of God, plural marriage included, but
on account of the sayings and doings of
seme of the brethren and sisters I suffered
the temptations of Satan to nearly overcome
me so far that I thought I would have noth-
ing to do with it, I mean celestial marriage.
A good sister where I was staying called in
President Young to talk to me. He in-
structed me in the principle, and desiring
with all my heart to understand the truth,
I testify that the Holy Spirit of God rested
down upon me, and it was made plan to
my understanding that it was a divine prin-
ciple, and with great joy of beart I accepted
it and never from that time to this, 1889,
has there been a doubt in my mind con-
cerning it.
	I was sealed to Parley P. Pratt on or
about the 20th of November, 1844, in one
of the rooms of the house of Erastus Snow.
	I was sealed to a good man of the first
Apostles of this dispensation by President
Brigham Young for time and all eternity.
There was but one witness, Elder Erastus
Snow.
	On or about the first of December, Mr.
Pratt was appointed and set apart for a
mission to the Eastern States to take care
of the Church in the Atlantic States, as I
was without home or relatives in this part
of the country he wished me to follow him.
I will not attempt to tell the joy that filled
my heart. I had never expected to have
so great a privilege. He gave me means to
go, and accordingly I started a day or two
after he did. After arriving at St. Louis I
went on the same boat with him to Pitts-
burg, and Wheeling, Virginia. From there
we crossed the Allegheny Mountains by


71
WOMAN"S EXPONENT.

[Column 1]
stage to Wilmington, from there by rail to
Philadelphia. Here we were obliged to
wait a few days for money and then we went
on to the city of New York by stage, and
arrived Christmas, Eve. He visited some
of the Saints while I found a boarding-place
among strangers, for it was not known ex-
cept by a few of the Saints that the sealing
power was practiced. I found a boarding-
place and paid my expenses with sewing.
	After a short time I rented a house and
Mr. Pratt boarded with me. I commenced
dressmaking and knitting baby socks which
I sold by the dozen, earning from fifty cents
to a dollar a day nearly all the time I was
there, besides doing my housework.
	Mr. Pratt was called home to Nauvoo on
August 18, 1845. We traveled by the Erie
Canal and Lakes, journeying from Chicago
to Nauvoo by land. I went to Mr. Beaches
tavern to board while Mr. Pratt went to his
Home.
	After a while it was arranged for his wife,
Mary, and I to commence keeping house in
rooms above Mr. Pratt's store.
	The Temple was completed so far as to
give endowments therein. Some time in
December I received my endowments and
blessings therein and was again sealed over
the alter.
	On January 1st, 1846, I had a son born
who was named Nephi by his father.
	The persecution of the Saints became so
great that the authorities of the Church and
many of the Saints had to bid farewell to
their homes in Febraury. and we crossed
the Mississippi River about the 14th of the
month. It was extremely cold and my baby
only six weeks old. I had not recovered
my strength but a merciful Providence sus-
tained me, and by degrees I gained my strength.
	It was a terrible journey from Nauvoo to
the Missouri River. It stormed almost con-
tinuously, snow and rain, and the earth was
so soaked that the poor horses and cattle
could drag us but a few miles each day.
We reached the Missouri River in July, near
Council Bluffs and camped for several
weeks."
	Sister Belinda Pratt came to Utah in
1847 (immediately following the Pioneers).
She suffered all the trials, exposures and
privations incident to pioneer life.
	Mr. Pratt made his families comfortable
homes and started a good farm and orchard
which was a help to them long after he was
gone. Sister Belinda passed through
unspeakable grief of losing her husband by
assassination while he was on a mission in
1857. Left with a family of little children
unprovided for and unprotected, she strug-
gled through years of more than ordinary
hardships and privations. She was an edu-
cated, refined and gentle woman, full of
Sympathy, generosity and kindness.
	She taught school, made dresses, took
boarders. The struggle was a brave one.
She gave her children what education she
Could.
	When the Relief Society was called to-
gethcr, organized in wards in Salt Lake, she
was a teacher therein and maintained that
position until she moved to Fillmore in the
Autumn of 1870.
	While living in the Fourteenth Ward in
Salt Lake City she paid her tithing and fifty
cents in cash each month for a fast offering.
Bishop Hoagland asked her why she did it
and if she thought a poor widow should do
so. She reminded him of the widow's mite,

[Column 2]
and told him that she wanted the blessing
and approval of God.
	She was for years an active, intelligent
and persistent worker for the public good.
While she was President of Fillmore Ward
Relief Society there was a poor woman who
was aided by the Society. The woman was
a great gossip and talked a great deal.
Some of the ward Relief Society teachers
came to Sister Pratt with the report that the
woman had said quite bad things about the
Society and also about Sister Pratt, and
they did not think it right to help her any
more. Sister Pratt said: "You must not
let her suffer no matter how she talks, give
her what she needs and relieve her wants."
	She was the first Stake President of the
Relief Society of Millard County from its
organization until her removal to Salt Lake.
	She delighted in associating with her sis-
ters, on one occasion arriving at the door of
the room where a sewing meeting was con-
vened, pausing for a moment to listen to the
hum of voices from within, she said: "The
sound of their voices is like sweet music to
my ears."
	A phrenologist said of her: "She has a
man's ability for business and great execu
tive talent with a woman's love of the fine
And beautiful."
	It was a long time after leaving her home
before her relatives knew where she was.
They mourned her as dead. When they
learned that she was in Salt Lake they were
so ashamed and shocked to think that she
had joined "that low, degraded people," as
they styled them. They wrote to her if she
would leave that church and people and
come home that they would share all in the
world with her; if she did not she would see
the time that she would be hungry. She
replied that she had suffered hunger, having
nursed twins for several months without
bread, but that so strong was her testimony
that this is the true restored Gospel of Jesus
Christ, that she had never for one moment
been sorry for having cast her lot with the
Saints of God. Her sacrifice she counted
as nothing for the Gospel; and the hope
which she had in the eternal life, and eternal
family ties more than repaid her for all, she
felt to claim the fulfillment of the promise of
the Savior, and felt that it included women
as well as men:
	"There is no man that had left house or
brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or
wife, or children, or lands for my sake, and
the Gospel's but he shall receive an hundred
fold now in this time, houses and brethren,
and sisters and children and lands with per-
secutions, and in the world to come eternal
life."
	Her mother believing all the misrepresen-
tations and untruths of our enemies against
the Saints said of her: "Belinda has always
been my little white pet lamb, and now she
is the black sheep of the family."
	Some of her relatives distinguished them-
selves by their bravery and became officers
in the army; some were fine musicians and
composers of music, some were renowned
for their oratory and literature, some held
important positions in the government of
the United States. Not one received the
glad message of good tidings beside herself,
so she the despised of all her race bccame a
Savior to her father's household, spend much
of her hard earnings to gather genealogy,
did what work she could in the temples for
them and laid a fonndation for her children
to build upon.
				I. E. R.

[Column 3]
IN MEMORIAM.

Thy mother lives and once again
	Where there's no sorrow nor distress,
She'll meet her loved ones who remain
	In realms of endless happiness.	E. B. W.

	On March 3rd, 1910, Sister Mary E. Irvine
passed from this life after an illness of two years.
	She was born in Bradford, England, December
7th, 1851. Her parents were David and Jane
Rutherford. Their two children (John, who died
in young manhood, and Mary) were brought up
under a religious influence, their father being a
Methodist minister, and their mother also being
a strict Methodist. David Rutherford died in
1858.
	In her early girlhood it became clear to Sister
Irvine that the churches of they did not follow
the teachings of the Bible, and she questioned
her class teachers and the ministers about many
things, which they were not able to answer to her
satisfaction, and when she persisted in question-
ing, they concluded by telling her that the must
be a child of perdition, and not able to believe.
	At the age of seventeen she married John
Irvine, and they made their home in Newcastle-
upon-Tyne, her mother accompanying them. Mrs.
Irvine and her husband were agreed that, though
they both felt a strong desire for religion that
would satisfy them, they could not accept what
was offered in the Christian sects, and therefore
held themselves aloof.
	For a time spiritualism, then beginning to be
popular in England, claimed their attention, and
they, with a number of their friends, formed what
was called a circle. Interesting though their ex-
periences were in this connection, they fully re-
alized that they were far from being satisfied. In-
deed Sister Irvine often said afterwards that she
feared far more than she enjoyed, and certainly
found no peace in spiritualism, gladly leaving it
entirely alone just as soon as something better
was offered.
	In the year 1877 they learned that there were
Mormon Elders in Newcastle, and they went to
hear them preach. The first sermon, it might be
said, convinced them. for from that time they
were deeply interested in the truths of the Gospel,
and it was not long before they were baptized in-
to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Brother Royal B. Young might be mentioned
here as one of the Elders most earnest in preach-
Ing the doctrines of the Church to them, and was
afterwards their lifelong friend. Sister Irvine's
mother was also converted, though she at first
declared she would leave the house if Mormon
Elders were allowed to enter it, so strong a hold
did Methodism still have upon her.
	Mr. Irvine had a good position at that time,
being able to maintain a nice home ad provide
many comforts for his family. The spirit of
gathering however strongly possessed them. Ob-
jections were raised to their emigrating by their
friends, among them the Elders from Zion, the
latter fearing that the changed conditions they
would meet in Utah might affect their faith. But
they could not be stayed, and it was not long af-
ter their baptism before they, with their five small
children, were journeying to Utah, arriving here
in the spring of 1879.
	The work of Relief Society and that of the
Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement soon claimed
the attention of Sister Irvine after her arrival in
Utah, and in both of these organizations she be-
came an active worker, holding several different
positions in each, from time to time, until the be-
ginning of her sickness, in March, 1907. She
visited many of the far off stakes of Zien in the
interest of both organizations.
	She loved the work of the Lord with all her
heart, and willingly engaged in it from the time
of her conversion, her interest never flagging.
She was especially gifted in nursing the sick and
in comforting the sorrowful, being able to cheer
with kind words and loving deeds, thus proving
a strong and faithful help in the Relief Society in
the true sense of the work. Many times she
arose from a bed of sickness herself to answer the
call of distress and give the help that was needed.
	In her Church work she became acquainted
with the many noble women who were likewise
engaged, and her association with these friends
brought sunshine into her life. It may be truly
said of her that she never lost a friend. The
young, the middle aged and the old, once know-
ing her, loved her with an enduring love. and
they it was who cheered her long sickness with
kindly visits, loving messages, and flowers at all
seasons of the year.
	But above and beyond all things else she was a
mother in the true sense of the word. Her pub-
lic duties never caused her to neglect her home.


OBITUARY.
	In memory of Nancy S. Peterson of Ferron,
Utah, who departed this life April 12, 1910. De-
ceased was born in Ephraim, Sanpete County,
Utah, July 21, 1857. She was the daughter of
Bishop J. L. Black and Cynthia Allred Black.
She was married to Andrew Peterson Nov. 23,
1875, at Kanosh, Millard County, and moved to
Ferron in 1895. She leaves a husband and eleven
children to mourn her loss, also a host of friends.
	The officers of the Ferron Relief Society offer
the following resolutions of respect:
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Nancy S. Peterson, a member and teacher of the
Ferron Relief Society, who departed this life April
12, 1910.
	Whereas, after a long and severe illness, our
worthy aad beloved Sister has been called home
to our Heaevnly Father;
	Therefore, be it resolved, that we, the Sisters of
the Relief Society do sincerely sympathize with
the bereaved family, and we mourn for one who
was in every respect worthy of our love and es-
teem;
	Resolved, that in her death we recognize the
loss of a true saint and a faithful worker, and
though she has left us for a short time, yet we
know that all is well with her, for she has fought
the good fight and has kept the faith, and there
is a crown of righteousness awaiting her in the
Kingdom of God.
	She has gone to a rest so sweet,
		To all the faithful given.
	O, may we learn through earthly life,
		The same sweet bliss in Heaven.
	May her devoted lile on earth,
		Of patience. hope and love,
	Aid us to gain that prize of worth,
		From Him who rules above.
	Resolved that the resolutions be placed on the
record of the Relief Society and a copy be sent to
her bereaved family.
						M. J. KING, Pres.
						OLIVE OLSEN, Sec.


R. S. REPORTS.
			OGDEN STAKE.
	The Relief Society of the Ogden stake of
Zion held its quarterly conference in the
Relief Society Hall at Ogden, Utah, April
21, 1910. The morning session convened
at 10 o’clock. Counselor Isabel Foulger
presided and conducted the exercises. The
roll call showed a goodly attendance of
stake and local officers and workers. After
the opening exercises, Treasurer Sarepta E.
Cowles gave a most excellent talk on “The
Children’s Sabbath” with a view of making
it a pleasant, and yet withal a holy day.
	A very spirited discussion followed, led by
Sister Nellie Becraft, and participated in by
both stake and local workers.
	Items of General Relief Soeiety Confer-
ence, by Sister Nellie Becraft, a solo “Char-
ity” by Sister Emily Maddock and a few
choice remarks by ex-president Mary J.
Maycock of Pleasant View ward occupied
the whole of the morning session.
	The congregation sang “Love at Home,’’
and the benediction was pronounced.
	During the period between meetings sim-
ple refreshments were served to all present,


by the Sixth Ward Association, and hand-
shaking and social time was indulged in.
	At 2 p. m. the conference was again called
together  After the usual opening exercises,
Sister Nellie Becraft gave a short talk on
‘‘The Significance of the Organization of the
Relief Society, its Purpose and its Aims.”
	Elder Samuel G. Dye of the High Coun-
cil spoke on “Inspiration and Social Evils”
showing the power the sisters of the Relief
Society might be in checking the evils that
are in our midst, by being united and sus-
taining and assisting the Betterment League
which has for its purpose the redemption of
our boys and girls. Prayed the Lord to
help us to sustain His authority on the earth
attend to all our duties, and especially of
attending our Sacrament meetings that we
might be strong spiritually.
	Solo, “Behold the King of Glory,” Sister
Elizabeth Hickenlooper.
	Dr. Joseph R. Morrell of the High Coun-
cil spoke on “Influence, and the Responsi-
bility of fathers and mothers in regard to
the teaching of their boys and girls the laws
pertaining to sex and social purity, and de-
manding the same standard of purity of
both sexes” We have been too prudish on
this subject and have failed in our duties to
our offspring. Trusted that we might think
on the things that have been touched upon
for they are of vital importance.
	Counselor Foulger felt that the teachings
given this day were very timely. With all
our opportunities what manner of women
ought we to be? les us see to it that we fail
not in our duties. Let us teach our chil-
dren the things they ought to learn from us
and let our own lives be quiet sermons every
day, remembering that character teaches
over our heads.
	After singing the “Doxology” the bene-
diction was pronounced by Sister Ruth B.
Evans.
	There was a large attendance and the
Spirit of the Lord was with us in rich abun-
dance.
		NELLIE BECRAFT, Secretary.


[handwritten at the top of the page] Mary A. White
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

