Vol. 38.					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER, 1909.					No. 3.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
Why I Hate the Liquor Traffic........................	17
Autobiography................................................	17
In Memoriam..................................................	19
International Council of Women....................
	.......................Marla M. Ogilvie Gordon	21
Relief Society Stake Reports: Woodruff........	19
	Cassia—Liberty—Yellowstone—Nebo..	23
	Bingham—Sevier....................................	24
Editorial:—Relief Society Conference...........	20
	Reminiscences........................................	20
	Editorial Note.........................................	21
	Chronicle of the Relief Society—IV.......	21
Poetry:—World of Fair Women...Lippincott’s	17
	Echoes................................Ellis R. Shipp	19


WORLD OF FAIR WOMEN.
	The Golden Legacy,
My mother had no gold to share,
	Nor land nor herd nor merchandise,
(My brother has her silken hair,
	My sister has her azure eyes!)
To me she left no comeliness
	That to the face or form belong,
But oh, oue gift I do possess—
	The blessed heritage of song!

Long, long ago, in cradle days,
	Her sweet voice would my heart beguile,
When I could nothing do but gaze
	Into the heaven of her smile!

I learned the songs in later years,
	And with her sang them o’er and o’er,
Oh, memory, thy lute and tears
	Must meet and mingle evermore!

’Twas “Hush, my Babe”—as fades the light
	I hear her softly, sweetly croon—
Then “Afton Water,” “Stilly Night,”
	“O Sanctissima” and “Silver Moon.”
She sang them with such tender art—
	The art that only mothers know—
And tied the tunes around my heart.
	Else it had broken long ago!
						—Lippincott’s.


WHY I HATE THE LIQUOR TRAFFIC.
	Speech by Governor  Hanley before the
Indiana Republican Convention, April 1908.
	Personally I have seen so much of the
evils of the liquor traffic in the last four
years, so much of its economic waste, so
much of its physical ruin, so much of its
mental blight, so much of its tears and
heartache, that I have come to regard the
business as one that must be held and con-
trolled by strong and effective laws. I bear
no malice towards those engaged in the busi-
ness, but I hate the traffic. I hate its every
phase. I hate it for its intolerance. I 
hate it for its arrogance. I hate it for its 
hypocrisy. I hate it for its cant and craft
and false pretense. I hate it for its com-
mercialism. I hate it for its greed and avar-
ice. I hate it for its sordid love of gain at
any price.
	I hate it for its domination in politics. I 
hate it for its corrupting influence in civic
affairs. I hate it for its incessant effort to
debauch the suffrage of the country; for the
cowards it makes of public men. I hate it
for its utter disregard of law. I hate it for
its ruthless trampling of the solemn compacts
of state constitutions.
	I hate it for the load it straps to labor’s


back, for the palsied hands it gives to toil;
for its wounds to genius, for the tragedies of
its might-have-beens. I hate it for the hu-
man wrecks it has caused. I hate it for the
alms-houses it peoples, for the prisons it
fills, for the insanity it begets, for the count-
less graves in potter’s fields.
	It hate it for the mental ruin it imposes
upon its victims, for its spiritual blight, for
its moral degradation. I hate it for the
hearts it has broken. I hate it for the mal-
ice it has planted in the hearts of men—for
its poison, for its bitterness—for the dead
sea fruit with which it starves their souls.
	I hate it for the grief it causes womanhood
—the scalding tears, the hopes deferred, the
strangled aspirations, its burden of want and
care.
	I hate it for its heartless cruelty to the
aged, the infirm and the helpless; for the
shadow it throws upon the lives of children,
for its monstrous injustice to blameless little
ones.
	I hate it as virtue hates vice, as truth
hates error, as righteousness hates sin, as
justice hates wrong, as liberty hates tyranny,
as freedom hates oppression.
	I hate it as Abraham Lincoln hated slav-
ery. And as he sometimes saw in prophetic
vision, the end of slavery and the coming
of the time when the sun should shine and
the rain should fall upon no slave in all the
republic, so I sometimes seem to see the
end of this unholy traffic, the coming of the
time when, if it does not wholly cease to be,
it shall find no safe habitation anywhere be-
neath “Old Glory’s” stainless flag.


[Column 1]
			AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
[LIFE AND TRAVELS OF NANCY M. TRACY.]
		(Continuation from page 16.)
	A young girl about 20 years of age,
Emily Fuller, was staying for a few days at
Brother Homer Blakesley’s, our presiding
Elder’s house; she was taken violently ill
and kept on getting worse until finally she
went into convulsions; she was a good
Latter-day Saint but it seemed the evil one
was determined to destroy her; Brother
Blakesley had gone away to fill an appoint-
ment 18 miles from home; there was not an
Elder within 14 miles; at last this Elder
Thomas Dutcher was sent for to come and
administer to this girl; it had now been
about twenty-four hours since she was taken
ill, every thing that could be done for her
was done but of no avail; the evil spirit
raved in cramping her body. She was in
this state when Brother Dutcher came; he
immediately repaired to a room alone and
prayed mighty for faith and strength in God
that he might have power to rebuke the des-
troyer; and when he came out and went into
the room to her bedside he laid his hands
upon her head and with the authority of a
man clothed upon with the spirit and power
of the Priesthood of God commanded her
to arise and be made whole from that mo-
ment; she obeyed and arose although very
weak, she called for water to wash and a
comb to arrange her hair and was indeed
healed; she became well. This fact I bear

[Column 2]
testimony of and there is nothing but truth in
this statement and I think it is in place to
mention it in my narrative.
	Brother Joseph Smith, the Prophet, had a
gathering place for the Saints in Kirtland,
Ohio, where the Saints were beginning to
gather and had begun to build a Temple as
they had been commanded in the spring of
1835; we felt that we with one or two others
in the branch would like to gather to this
place, consequently began making prepara-
tions to go to Kirtland. We had visited
Herkimer Co. in the winter for I felt to leave
my testimony to my grandfather’s house be-
fore leaving for the west; for I felt I was
leaving them forever; there had never been
an Elder in that part of the state, so my re-
latives knew nothing of Mormonism; they
were glad to see me; but would not listen
to the message we had to give them, so we
bade them adieu, and went home to prepare
for our journey west. We had a fine span of
horses and new wagon, so we made up our
minds to go by team, the distance was some
over 400 miles; we took a light load and
had money to bear our expenses; one of my
husband’s cousins, Philinda Colvin, was go-
ing with us. The time had now come for
us to bid farewell to all our relatives, and
friends although they predicted that we
would soon return again; but it will be seen
that in this they were mistaken. We made
the distance of 400 miles in 11 days, we had
a pleasant journey, only camped in the wa-
gon two nights on the road, but instead cal-
led for our meals and lodging at the hotel
we had not as yet learned to deprive our-
selves of comfort and little did we realize
what we would have to endure for the Gos-
pel’s sake, I think it was somewhere near
the first of June, we got to Kirtland; we
went to meeting on Sunday, it was held in-
side the Temple walls; the roof was partly
on, the Prophet Joseph was on the stand;
he addressed the Saints that day; I never
will forget with what satisfaction I sat and
listened to the teachings of an inspired man
of God.
	My husband rented a room of Brother Ly-
man Sherman, and we moved into it; every
thing was new to us, and hard to get settled
and commence anew to keep house, em-
ployment was hard to get; but we got along
very well, sometimes my husband would get
work with his team which made our living;
sometimes he worked on the Temple, the
work on that house was progressing and it
was intended to be finished during the fall
and winter; so it could be dedicated in the
spring.
	In October 24th, my second son was born;
when he was two months old, we made a
feast. Brother Harry Brown and wife united
with us and we were to receive our pa-
triarchal blessings under the hands of father
Joseph Smith. We invited until the house
was full, partook of refreshments and wine,
received our blessings and had instructions
from some of the Twelve Apostles, that were
present; and it was a feast to our souls; this
was in the winter; in the spring the Temple
was finished and dedicated; the dedication
lasted two days and they were happy days
too, for the Spirit of God rested on the house


[Column 1]
and on the people; angels appeared and the
fitting hymn, that was composed for the oc-
casion, was realized, “The Spirit of God
like a fire is burning.” I felt that I would
always like to enjoy the sweet communion
with the holy spirit, as I enjoyed it in that
house. Solemn Assemblies were called, or-
dinances administered to the Saints; the
Elders went from house to house blessing
the Saints and administering the sacrament
and it was truly a day of rejoicing with the
Saints of God, and surely nerved us up for
what we afterwards had to contend with.
	There had a portion of the Saints settled in
Jackson county, Missouri, but the inhabi-
tants would not let them stay there, altho’
they had paid for the land, they forced
them to leave the county. The brethren
with their families then went to Clay coun-
ty. This was going on while we were yet in
Kirtland, Ohio, we had been talking of go-
ing to Missouri. Brother Joseph had bor-
rowed $50.00 of us, and we could not fit up
without it, so my husband went to Brother
Joseph to ask counsel about going, and told
him that he did not need the money, if he
did not go. Brother Joseph thought a mo-
ment and then said, “Brother Tracy, it is the
will of the Lord that you should go, and
your money shall be forthcoming, tho’ I do
not know now how I am going to get it,” so
we made up our minds to go, That sum-
mer there were many Elders sent out from
the house of the Lord, and that spring. My
husband belonged to the lesser priesthood,
he greatly desired to make a short trip to
New York, to once more bear a faithful tes-
timony to his father’s house and his friends
in general, before we went to Missouri. The
time was short for we wanted to go by the
middle of June and this was in April, so
Brother Harry Brown and my husband put
their families together, and they two breth-
ren started together for New York, were gone
six weeks, when they returned home and be-
gan to fix up for our journey of one thousand
miles, this time with ox teams, with two
families in one wagon. Brother Dimick
Huntington’s family of five, and our own
with four in family; two other families go-
ing in the company with a team each these
were Brothers Ezra Parrish and W. M. Cor-
ey, four families in all, and three wagons.
It will be seen that this was not going to be
a pleasure trip like unto our first.
	We were nearly ready to start when Broth-
er Joseph Smith the Prophet came to us
and said, “Here, Brother Tracy is your
money. I have just sold a half-acre lot; I
told you I would get it for you.”
	We bade adieu to Kirtland, where we had
lived one year in unalloyed peace and hap-
piness and received many rich blessings in
connection with the Saints of God, which I
have often said better fitted and prepared us
for what was before us, and I often thought,
“Shall we enjoy ourselves when we get to
Missouri as we have in Kirtland?”
	All things being made ready, we started
on our journey. We had no tents, so we
made our beds in our wagons. In general
we got along slowly, the weather was get-
ting pretty warm; we had the summer be-
fore us. There was nothing occurred to mar
our peace until we came into the borders
of Missouri, when one day we came to a
stream of water with a very narrow bridge,
and got to the center, when one of the oxen
dropped and began to throw itself; in its
struggles we expected to see the wagon with
the children thrown into the stream, but the
men got him loose from the other ox and
it died and was dragged off by the brethren.

[Column 2]
They could not get a team across to draw
the wagon off the bridge, so the men drew
it off as best they could, then with their
teams took that wagon and family along un-
til we got to a settlement, where the men
got another ox. Then we went on a day or
two, when one of Brother Corey’s children
was taken very sick and died. We were
quite a distance from any settlement so we
camped, and the brethren made a rude cof-
fin for the little child and buried it there in
the forest.
	Sister Corey thought this a great trial, and
so it was, but the worst was yet to come.
We went on till within one hundred and
fifty miles of our destination, Far West,
when all of a sudden Brother Corey went
out of his mind and raved and tore about
and seemed to want to kill the rest of them.
He would not be administered to, and they
could not hold him; he was a large, power-
ful man. At last he gave up and seemed
harmless; the brethren counseled together
and thought it better to stop for a few days
to see if he would not recover, but he never
rallied again. We went a few miles to a
settlement, because our means were limited,
to see if we could get something to make
him more comfortable. We found an empty
log cabin which the owner gave us leave to
go into. My own little boy was shaking with
the ague almost every day, and I had this
sick man to take care of; his wife took to
her bed, and three more of the children were
taken sick. Brother Parrish had gone on his
way, and Brother Huntington had got a
house a half a mile from us, so the burden
fell upon my husband and myself to take
care of tho sick. He would go out and
work by the day and get what necessaries
he could for his labor and bring in at night.
	Brother Corey lived about one week after
we stopped in this place. I was alone with
the sick family with the exception of a wo-
man that lived near, when the husband
and father of this family died, but it seemed
that I was nerved up in body and spirit
to do my duty, and it was marvelous to me
how I endured what I was called upon to
passthrough at that time, but the Lord gave
me strength for my day and trial.
	We went to work and prepared this man
for his burial. My husband got him a
coffin made, although it was rather rough,
but we did all we could, and the best we
could under the circumstances, I think.
There were men came to help bury him his
wife held up to take her last look upon him,
and then he was buried a short distance
from the house.
	Well, we were not going to forsake the rest
of the sick, so we stayed on and took care of
them until they were so far recovered that
we felt justified in leaving them, for the wid-
ow concluded to go no further that year.
We had gathered some provisions, enough
to last a month qr so, and we prepared to
start again. It was now getting late in the
season, my child was better and we wanted
to finish up our travels before cold weather.
Before we left the family that let us have
the house to stop in, they had been very
kind to us, prepared dinner and invited us
to come over and partake with them; we
went, and I can truly say that I never sat at
a table spread with luxuries that I enjoyed
as I did that meal; it consisted of fresh veni-
son, sweet potatoes, com bread and coffee.
It surely was a great treat to us, as we had
not had the privilege to get ourselves a
decent meal since we had been there. We
bade these friends good by (their name was
Birch). This was in Randolph county.

[Column 3]
	We went on and gotto our journey’s end 
towards the middle of November, and
camped. There was not a house finished in
Far West, for the Saints had just moved in
from Clay county and were in destitute cir-
cumstances. They had now been driven
from Jackson county into Clay county, and
from there into Caldwell county. It seemed
that there was no resting place for the Saints
of God, for persecution followed them up;
but this was still another testimony, for in
all ages when God had people on the earth
they had been persecuted in like manner.
But the Saints soon built up a city, and felt
tc trust in God, knowing they had been
commanded to come out of Babylon, and
gather together, that they may not be par-
takers of her plagues, that would soon be
poured out upon the wicked.
	My husband went to work with a will;
timber was handy, he soon put up a log
cabin. There were no saw mills, so he had.
to make the best use of the timber as it
was. He got straight grained oak and split
out boards for the roof and floor and door,
no window, dirt chimney and fireplace.
This rude structure was put together in
about two weeks ready for us to go into,
for the cold and storms were getting severe.
	How I did appreciate the shelter from the
rude blasts of December! But what next?
Our food was gone, and no alternative but
for my husband to go into an adjoining
county and seek for employment to get us
something to live upon. My two little boys
had come down with whooping cough, but
their father had to leave us, and went thirty-
five miles over the bleak prairie with a
team. He got some work and started home
with two barrels of corn and one hundred
pounds of coarse flour, but the cold was so
ntense he almost perished on the prairie.
At one time he felt himself going to sleep;
he thought he was freezing, but was so
numb it was with great exertion that he got
out of the wagon. He finally got the use of
his limbs, but dared not get into the wagon
any more; at last he got home safe, with our
winter supply of food, for what he had got
would be our dependence for he could go no
more, but deer was plentiful and venison
was a great help to our winter’s supply.
	The little boys did not get over their
cough until spring, they had itvery hard.
We had plenty of wood, which was a great
blessing, and the deer were fat and I could
make candles of their tallow for our lights.
We were happy, and felt that the Lord was
ever mindful of those that trusted in Him,
and we never felt to murmur nor complain.
	When spring came my husband entered a
piece of land three miles from Far West,
planted corn and other things and we raised
quite a crop that season, and all things
moved along pleasantly that summer.
Brother Joseph Smith, the prophet, his father
and brother, came up to Far West, so we
had the prophet and patriarch with us.
again. In this blessing we felt to rejoice,
that we had the privilege from time to time
of listening to the words of life and salva-
tion that flowed from the prophet’s lips.
		(To be continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Mrs. Malvina M. McKeever of Roxbury,
Mass., is to establish a training school for
nurses in Manila. It is to be under the con-
trol of the bureau of education, and Filipino
girls are to be the students. Mrs. McKeever
served as a nurse in the Spanish War and
later was matron in the Civil Hospital at
Manila.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ECHOES.

’Mid the vernal vales of Echo,
	Hemmed on every side with hills,
Towering cliffs like old cathedrals
	Sending back re-echoing trills—
Vibrant notes through mountain crevice— 
	Towers formed by unseen hand—
Pulpit rock where weary wanderers
	Saw their valiant prophet stand.
Now his voice, though long since silent,
	Echoes still through Utah’s vales.
Echoes in the hearts of nations 
	With the truth that never fails.

Now the iron horse in fury
	Plods its pond’rous course along,
O’er these plains so fraught with story—
	Thundering echoes now prolong!
“Witches court,’’ strange freak of nature,
	In fantastic shadows lie—
And the lone tower in the distance
	Rears her turrets to the sky—
Where Pelaris old and stately
	May perchance his sentry keep,
Guarding well these sacred valleys
	Traversed first by pilgrim feet.

From the flitting bird on eerie—
	From the murmuriug streamlet’s flow—
From the tinkling herds in valley—
	Echoing murmurs come and go,
Telling of the grand achievements,
	Of our noble pioneers,
Of privations, toil and hardship,
	Bravely borne for many years,
Now the harvest of their labors
	Seen in plenty all around,
Homes of comfort, holy temples,
	Where their guerdon they have found.
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
	The following letters of condolence were
sent by the Waterloo Ward Relief Society
after the severe losses sustained by two of
its members, one losing within two weeks a
husband and beautiful daughter, and the
other her husband.

Dear Sister Goss:—
	We, the officers, and members of the Re-
lief Sociesy desire to express to you our
heartfelt sympathy in the double loss that
has recently come to you. We realize dear
sister that words are but feeble, in giving
comfort in this hour of great trial, for well
we know that only He, who guards the lilies
of the field can give you that comfort and
support, which you really need at this try-
ing time and He will, we promise you, if
you but go to Him in humble prayer.
	In the passing away of Brother Goss,
whose life was already well spent, and who
had for so long been a great sufferer, we feel
sure you can acknowledge the hand of our
Father. And how thankful we mothers
should bo when we can see our loved part-
ners laid peacefully away, after years of en-
deavor, full of faith in Jesus Christ, and the
Gospel so dear to us all.
	On he other hand the loss of your dear
Louise must indeed be hard for you. Not
only her sweet, loving, unselfish influence
will be missed by you, but the substantial
financial aid she has been able, through her
untiring efforts as a nurse, to give you.
Truly it does seem that the young, loving,
useful children might be spared to comfort
and bless the parents as age creeps upon
them in return for the many sacrifices made
by them. But God knoweth best. We must
bow in submission to His will and surely
He will not fail in making up to those who
trust Him that which now must seem an
aching void. Thank Him that you still
have other children who will rally round
you perhaps as never before, to take the
place in a measure of her now gone

[Column 2]
beyond. And when the question “Why”
comes, as it often will, read long and ponder
the words of Isaiah 37, wherein he says,
the righteous aro taken from the evil that is
to come. Surely Louise, in all her purity is
one of these. Your husband too, now sing-
ing songs of praise with her, in mansions
far beyond would not return, nor would we
call them back. God bless and comfort you
dear Sister. May the dying words of your
beloved husband that, we your sisters keep
you busy in the Relief Society work, find
echo in your soul, that you may always be
with us in our glorious cause is the earnest
prayer and desire of your sisters
			HELEN M. SPERRY,
			MARIA S. LIDDLE,
			MARTHA THOMPSON,
		Presidency Waterloo Relief Society.

Dear Sister Burrows:—
	In the recent trial that has come to you,
in the passing away of your beloved part-
ner, and husband, we the sisters of the
Waterloo Relief Society desire to express
our sympathy and love for you as a fellow-
worker among us for many years. And we
say God bless and comfort you in your afflic-
tion. And we promise you He will. May
your own bodily suffering cease, and may
peace and joy fill your soul. May you live
yet long—so long as life be desirable unto
you—to do much good. And may you be
privileged to meet with us again—none will
be more welcome. And may your hours of
loneliness be filled by earnest contemplation
of the word of God, and the glorious wel-
come that will await you when united in the
great beyond with your loving and devoted
husband, who perhaps even now, is prepar-
ing for you an heavenly abode at his side.
	In much love we subscribe ourselves
					Your Sisters
			HELEN M. SPERRY,
			MARIA S. LIDDLE,
			MARTHA THOMPSON,
		Presidency Waterloo Relief Society.


[Column 1]
		RELIEF SOCIETY REPORT.
			WOODRUFF STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society conference held
at Diamondville July 8, 1909, Stake Presi-
dent Sara Tyson presiding. Visitors from
the General Board Sisters Susan Grant and
Minerva E. Knowlton, president Relief So-
ciety of Davis Stake. Stake President Ty-
son was glad to meet the sisters, felt hon-
ored at the reception given, knew that we
would have a good time and drink in the
good spirit, spoke at length on fault-finding,
humility and love.
	President Lizzie Palmer, of Cumberland,
gave a good report. President Christina
Wall, of Lyman, President Nina Wright of
Kemmerer, gave good reports, all felt well.
	Stake President S. Tyson said there would
not be any report from Rock Springs, but
had visited there lately; found that the pres-
dent had moved to Ogden and the society
disorganized, but they had done a good
work in the past. Reported Evanston as
doing a grand work in the Relief Society. It
is a labor of love with them.
	Sister Susan Grant enjoyed this beautiful
morning in meeting with the sisters and
Latter-day Saints, encouraged the young
sisters to attend the Relief Society, also the
boys should learn something about this
grand organization. Spoke at length on

[Column 2]
prayer in the home, and how it should be
attended to in the family, said we learn to
do by doing and the more we do in the
Relief Society, the more we want to, we
should be brave and united and encourage
each other to good works, get the Spirit of
tha Lord and keep it, prayed the Lord to
bless all.
	Sister M. E. Knowlton took pleasure in
her labors in the Church. Thought there
was too much worldly pleasure, there were a
great many more good girls than there were
boys. The Gospel and our families were
the most precious things to us, felt honored
to visit with Sister Grant and talk to the sis-
ters, wished the house was full, she appre-
ciated her position and the work she had to
do, always wanted to be a worker in the
Church and progress with it, spoke on the
word of wisdom, and the necessity of living
it. Encouraged the sisters to be charitable
to each other and love one another.
	Brother Henry Voss of Lyman was glad
to hear the instructions given by the sisters
spoke of the parents class, thought singing
and prayer in the home was a great privil-
ege.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon session of Relief Society con-
ference. After the usual exercises, Stake
President S. Tyson said we had had an ex-
cellent time this morning, and the Lord was
with us just as much in these days as He
ever was.
	Stake Counselor Alice Jackson said that
through faith we could draw out from the
speaker what we most wish to hear. She
had many testimonies of the Gospel and
wished to hold fast the good work, urged the
sisters to perform their part and not waste
their opportunities to do good, prayed the
Lord to bless the sisters here.
	Sister Susan Grant spoke upon the bless-
ings of the Gospel, enjoyed her visits to this
stake of Zion and the association of the
noble sisters she met; had the privilege of
knowing the Prophet Joseph Smith, wished
to impress it upon the minds of the young
people here, and we should look for good-
ness and not find fault. Spoke at length on
the principle of faith and its results, wanted
to live a long and useful life in the Church;
read a pamphlet on the Nurses Class given
through the Relief Society, wished to bless
and encourage the sisters in the great work
of relief.
	Sister M. E. Knowlton said she wished
with all her heart that she might be the
mother of missionaries, we had enjoyed a
good time in this conference, said faith was
the gift of God, there were times when we
were sorely tried, and sometimes blessings
are given to us that we do not understand.
Spoke of charity for each other and of the
tendency of women to refuse motherhood, a
mother’s mission is the greatest mission we
can have, the Lord will bless the faithful
mothers. May we increase in faith and
love for one another.
	Brother Hyrum B. Perry spoke upon the
power of faith and love.
	Brother Alvin Jackson, missionary,
thought a great deal had been said that
would make us better men and women; said
woman can make a heaven on earth if she
puts forth her best efiorts. He had been
blessed in this new mission field.
	President S. Tyson made a few closing
remarks and blessed the sisters in their la-
bors of love.
	Singing, “Lord dismiss us with Thy
blessing.” Benediction by Brother Henry
Voss.			KATE EPPICH, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. 

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	SEPTEMBER, 1909.


GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERFNCE.
	The Semi-Annual October Conference of
the Relief Society will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this City, Thursday Oct.
7, 1909, meetings commencing promptly at
10 a. m. and at 2 p., as usual. All mem-
bers of the Relief Society are cordially in-
vited, also the Presiding Authorities of the
Church, Bishops and brethren interested in
the work. The General Board of the Y.L.N.
M. I. A., and of the Primary Associations
are included in the invitation.
	There will also be an Officers’ meeting of
the Relief Society held previously on Tues-
day, October 5, at 2 p. m., in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall, and it is desirable that all
presiding officers who can conveniently,
should attend this special session of the
Conference. 
		BATBSHEAA W. SMITH,
			General President.
		IDA S. DUSENBERRY, 
			Counselor.


[Column 1]
GENER[-]L R[-]LIEF SOCIE[-]Y CONFERENCE.

October, 1909, Assembly Hall, Salt Lake City.
	Officers Meeting, Tuesday, Oct. 5, 2 p. m.
Hymn, “Come Oh Thou King of Kings.”
Prayer.
Hymn, “Come Listen to a Prophet’s Voice.”
		Business: Miscellaneous.
Report of General Secretary,
					Emmeline B. Wells.
Report of General Treasurer,
					Clarissa S. Williams.
Solo, “Oh Loving Father,” Delriego,
	Lizzie Thomas Edward, Director of Music
			of General Relief Society.
Instructions: President Bathsheba W. Smith.
Report of Nurse Work,		Phebe Y. Beatie.
Study Lessons in Ward Meeting,
						Minnie H. James.
Solo, “Hosanna,” Granier,	Prof. Elihu Call.
The Mother and the Chid,
			Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry.
Hymn, “Love at Home.”
Prayer.
		Thursday, Oct. 7, 10 a.m.
Opening Hymn. “Lord We Come Before Thee
	Now.”
Opening Prayer,
		Representative R. S. Cassia Stake.

[Column 2]
Singing, “Hail to the Brightness, of Zion’s Glad
	Morning.”
			Presidents Address.
Greeting,
		General Secretary Emmeline B. Wells.
Response,	Representative Mary E. Hardy,
					Taylor Stake, Canada.
Music, Selected, Prof. Willard Weighe, violin,
				Prof. J. J. McClellan, piano.
Poem by Annie Pike Greenwood,
				Read by Annie Welis Cannon
					of the General Board.
Choice of Friends,
				Martha H. Tingey, President
					of the Y. L. M. I. A.
Necessity of Hygienic and Sanitary Conditions
	for the Home and the State,
				Dr. Martha Hughes Cannon.
A Plea for business methods in house keeping,
				Representative of Ogden Stake.
20 minutes Reserved.
Singing, “Doxology.”
Prayer.

		Thursday, Oct. 7, 2 p.m.
Singing, “Lord Thou Wilt Hear Me When I Pray.”
Prayer.
Overture, Edna Coray,
		Organist for the General Relief Society.
Reading of the “Hymn of the Pioneers”
		Kate Thomas, Blanche Thomas McKee.
Report of Quinquennial Congress of the Inter-
	national Council of Women at Toronto, Ca-
	nada,
		Emily S. Richards of the General Board.
Solo, Selected,			Lizzie T. Edward.
	Report of the Triennial of the National Coun-
	cil of Women at Seattle,
		Elizabeth S. Wicox of the General Board.
Report of Rigby, Snowflake and Uintah Stakes,
Solo, “The Lord Is My Light,” Francis Allitsen,
						Irma Pendleton.
Our Place in the World today,
			Annie K. Hardy of Ensign Stake.
Closing Remarks,
		General Treasurer Clarissa S. Williams.
Hymn, “God Be With You Till We Meet Again.”
	“God be with you till we meet again
	By His counsels guide uphold you
	With His sheep securely fold you
	God be with you till we meet again.”
Benediction.


[Column 1]
			REMINISCE CES.
	There are some episodes connected with
Church history in the pilgrimages of our peo-
ple that are rarely mentioned, and yet they
have great significance as historical facts,
and some of them are really miracles, as
much so as those recorded in the ancient
scriptures, and yet many of our people have
never heard of these remarkable instances
manifested in the hour of great need.
	At the time of the exodus from Nauvoo,
after the first company had left, according
to an arrangement with the Federal author-
ities, with the understanding that the aged
people, the widows and those not able to
prepare for so long a journey into the
then unknown and unexplored country,
should not be molested — the mobo-
crats, who had been determined Mormons
should be exterminated or removed far from
civilization compelled all who were left in
the city of Nauvoo to cross the river into the

[Column 2]
territory of Iowa. These people were total-
ly unprepared for such an emergency and
were without the necessary clothing, bed-
ding or food, and were obliged to encamp on
the Western shore of the Mississippi and it
was the rainy season; some few had tents,
some had wagon boxes, and the larger num-
ber had only rough posts driven in the
ground and covered with quilts or pieces of
carpet for shelter; many were sick with
chills and fever, widows with young child-
ren and no protector, except the Lord and His
angels.
	The authorities of the Church, who had
left in the exodus in February had prom-
ised to send back teams to bring them from
Nauvoo, knowing the venom of the mob,
and teams were sent as soon as it could be
accomplished. Meantime the U. S. govern-
ment had asked for five hundred men from
the company who had left Nauvoo in mid-
winter, and this had very seriously weak-
ened the force of able-bodied men; but those
who were waiting for a way of deliverance
were mostly women and children, such men
as were in any way able-bodied, who had
been left to guard and protect the rights
and property of the people, had now to de-
fend the city, after removing the women and
children to a place of safety from harm
and violence, and of this there was the most
positive need, for the enemy was ready to
burn and destroy the city without mercy.
	It was at this critical time that the Lord
made manifest His watch-care to keep them
from want and starvation.
	The quails came flying overhead in flocks,
and were so tame they alighted upon the
ground or the cover of their rude shelters,
whatever they might be, so that the sick
ones could reach out their hands and take
them, and there was food to keep them
from hunger until they could be taken in
conveyances and carried towards the land
of their expectations, safe from their
persecutors.
	Many of them died by the way, ere they
reached the place of safety from their enem-
ies. The story is too pitiful to be told of
those who died by the wayside, stricken so
utterly before aid could reach them.
	It was at this crisis in the affairs of the
Mormon people that Squire Wells of Nau-
voo, an alderman of the city, at that time,
and holding a commission in the militia of
that state, laid down his arms when they
could not be used in defence of helpless
women and children, and espoused the
cause of the people so maligned and ill-
treated, sacrificing his good name among his
former associates, and what was even more
than that, his wife and only son for the
cause of rfght, in which he had implicit be-
lief.
	He knew the Prophet Joseph Smith inti-
mately and sympathized with him from the
time he came from Missouri with his follow-
ers, and settled in Commerce, afterwards
Nauvoo; he esteemed him highly, and had
plead his case on various occasions,
when he had been falsely accused, because he
realized his innocence of the accusations
that were brought against him by wicked
and designing men, just as they did the
prophets of old; but he had not made up
his mind he could make the sacrifice of his
good name and all he held dear, as one
must do who follows the divine teacher in
whatever age or clime. But now the su-
preme hour came, when he must choose be-
tween the Gospel of life and salvation, and
the world with all its allurements, and in


doing so he gave up all that was near and
dear, as the bond—home possessions, wife
and child.
	There are men and women still living who
can testify to the facts related here con-
cerning the coming of the quails in great
numbers, when the Saints who had been
driven from their homes were temporarily
encamped on the Western border of the
Mississippi river, To some of us who have
implicit faith in this Latter-day work, it
seems a positive proof of the overruling
hand of the Lord in the preservation of His
chosen people, the Israel of the present dis-
pensation of the fulness of times.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTE.
	One of the noted visitors to our city this
last summer was the very charming and de-
lightful writer and lecturer Mrs. Charlotte
Perkins Gilman. While here Mrs. Gilman
was the guest of Mrs. Susa Young Gates who
showed her all the interesting points of our
beautiful city and introduced her to many
of our leading and prominent men and
women. Before leaving Mrs. Gilman gave
a lecture in Barratt Hall under the auspices
of the State Council of Women and certainly
impressed her hearers with her logic, wit
and erudition. Mrs. Gilman has recently
published a book entitled “Human Work,”
a book which deals most logically with man
as a worker, and reasons in a powerful way
showing both the present status of humanity
at large and the possibility of great advance-
ment by more earnest effort especially for
women. The book teems with clever expres-
sions, advanced theories, and unanswerable
arguments and would certaiuly broaden one’s
views of life’s labor from a sociological stand-
point at least. It has been translated into
nine languages and is now being translated
into the Japanese.


[Column 1]
CHRONICLE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
				IV.
	The writer of these chronicles realizes
that in giving these few facts in even a
crude form shows how this wonderful organ-
ization of the sisterhood of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has spread
from its small beginning into many parts of
the world, and been a helpful source of self-
education to women.
	Without either schools or teachers really;
simply by contact under the potent influence
of the spirit of the Gospel, vouchsafed to
them in their humility, much has been learn-
ed of life’s usefulness from one another.
There is no possible way of computing the
advantages and wholesome benefit resulting
from the meeting together of the few sisters
in any given locality all partaking of the
Relief Society work.
	Going backward to the first little meetings
in the different wards, where just a few, per-
haps six or seven or a dozen as the case
might be, and tracing the history of the one
or more, what has seemed almost insignificant
has grown to gigantic proportions. 
	Recently in looking over hundreds of
pages of manuscript prepared for the jubilee
of this society in 1892, the first fifty years
after its inception, we came across many
very interesting things, and it is difficult to
choose which would be the best for an illus-
tration, but we have taken a few notes from
one society.
	Rockville is a small town in Southern
Utah where the colonists who settled there

[Column 2]
had many hardships to endure and obstacles
to surmount. Like the other women of Zion
as soon as possible they came together and
were organized for mutual helpfulness and
benefit.
	This society was organized in 1868, with
110 members; the first donations were cash,
$30.00; cotton, $4.00; butter, $2.00; molasses,
$4.00.
	The minutes of the first meeting are simi-
lar to others and yet unique as given.
	The first meeting was on May 28, 1868,
and was opened by singing a hymn and
prayer; the president spoke of the motives
and duties of the sisters in the society and
made some pertinent remarks suitable to
the occasion. Sister Hannah Terry rehears-
ed some of the teachings given in Nauvoo,
Illinois, and advised all to be forward in good
works for great things would yet grew out of
the small society. Sister Jane Black and
others spoke words of encouragement. We
give the names of members with list of dona-
tions. Clarissa Terry, president, $4.00; Eliza
Smith, first counselor, $3.95; Emeline Wind-
sor, second counselor, $4.00; Mary Stocks,
secretary, $4.00; Huldah L. Bunday, $1.00;
Jane Black, $4.25; Hannah Terry, Mary Par-
ker, Mary Buchanan, each 50 cts.; Bertha
Olsen, $2.00; Lucy Demuth $1.75; Ann Jen-
nings Kizia Hall $1.50; Susan Scroggins,
$2.25; Marilla Hansen Allred, $5.00; Sarah
Farnes Eleanor Morris, $4.00; Ellen Terry,
$1.00; Sophia Foster, $2.25, Mary Black,
$2.25; Martha Stephens, $3.75; Maria Smith,
$2.85. At this meeting a visiting committee
of five was appointed.
	Meetings were held regularly and in August
a special meeting was called to discuss how
to raise means to send to St. Joseph in Ari-
zona to relieve the needs of families whose
property had been destroyed by fire. After
the collections were made the sisters met to
pack the goods and articles to be forwarded
to the distressed families. Soon after a
working meeting was held at which there
was quilting, braiding-straw, knitting and
sewing. Two quilts were finished that day.
While the work was being done Sister Jane
Black entertained the ladies with incidents
and experiences of her own life while in the
Nauvoo persecutions.
	At a subsequent meeting the sisters made
coats and vests besides quilting. The sis-
ters also did spinning and reeling, and
braiding of mats was also done, and sewing
carpet rags was a favorite pastime, as it did
not hinder conversation.
	The first annual meeting held in Rockville
the sisters considered the matter of establish-
ing a cooperative store, as they had been
advised by President Brigham Young. It
was soon accomplished, they purchased
from the 14th Ward Woman’s Cooperative
Store in Salt Lake City useful articles to
create labor, no sugar or candy, these goods
cost $49.84 and for cloth made and sold,
they realized in value $49.91.—Imagine the
industry and enterprise of these good faith-
ful sisters at that early time, when they were
400 miles from Salt Lake City, and this city
itself was only like a country town.
	In March 1871, less than three years the
report of the Society was in Property $187.45
cash, and goods $108.84. Donations and
and expenses $71.80. Articles on hand:
wheat 5 1/2 bushels, cotton 32 lbs., cotton
yarn one bunch, stocking yarn 2 lbs., woolen
yarn 30 lbs., 3 pairs stockings, 2 sets knit-
ting needles.		Kezia Hall, Sec’y.
	In those days molasses was made at home
and valued at $2.00, a gallon; corn $2.00 a
bushel and other products in proportion.

[Column 3]
	It seems almost incredible the Relief So-
ciety could make means and establish a co-
operative store under such conditions, and
take care of the sick and those who needed
nursing and help, waiting upon and assist-
ing each other in families and neighbor-
hoods. Everything had to be made by hand
and then the carding, spinning, weaving of
flax, cotton, and wool making from the raw
material, how different from the housework
today with every sort of facility and mach-
inery What wonderful changes have come
and are we really better off? The names of
such women deserve record; here are some
of the foremost ones. Henrietta Stout Keziah
Hall, Mary R. Terry, Sarah Farnes, Ellen
K. Daley, Marilla Hanson, Clarinda Lang-
ston, Mary Ann Hirschi, Clarinda J. Stout,
Fannie M. Terry, Alice A. Dalton, Alvaretta
Petty, Lydia Lemmon, Letitia Dalton and
Ellen R. Daley, Amy H. Draper, Maria
Smith, Maryette Brandage, Fannie P.
Slaughter, Hannah Jennings. Remember
these women kept a store, and kept books
of account, and it is almost incredible when
one considers how they lived, that their
penmanship and spelling was so perfect.
The manuscript from which these notes are
made is a fine specimen of writing, better
than most of the college girls of nowadays,
write or spell. These reports made at the
time of the Relief Society Jubilee are worth
keeping in the archives of the Relief Society.
Many of these women so faithful and diligent
have passed away but we honor their mem-
ory.


INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.
(SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE QUINQUENNIAL
		SESSIONS IN CANADA.)
	Owing to the unusual circumstance of
two plenary meetings of council being held
within ten months—in September, 1908, in
Geneva, and in June, 1909, in Toronto—the
year 1908-09 may fairly be considered a re-
cord year of business in the history of the
International Council of Women. On no
previous occasion has more than one plen-
ary session of council been held during a
quinquennial period, but the special meet-
ing at Geneva was called in order to com-
plete the revision of the Constitution and
Standing Orders and to come to some work-
ing arrangement for suitable numerical re-
presentation of the Australian National
Councils previous to the quinquennial meet-
ing of council in 1909. Both matters were
successfully arranged at Geneva, and two
new National Councils, of Greece and Bul-
garia, became affiliated. The annual report
of the work of the standing committees of
the Intenational Council and of all the affili-
ated National Councils was then published
in October, 1908.
	In November, 1908, the first communica-
tions were issued from the headquarters of-
fice to the National Councils regarding the
nominations of general officers and con-
veners of committees for the next quinquen-
nial period, 1909-1914, and requesting inti-
mation of any resolutions or recommenda-
tions for the Agenda of the quinquennial
sessions at Toronto. The replies were duly
considered at a meeting of officers held on
27th January in London, and the Prelimin-
ary Agenda was circulated in printed form
to all the affiliated councils in the month of
February. Farther correspondence ensued,
and the Final Agenda was published in
June. It contained, in addition to the
Agenda and Revised Constitution, etc., a


[Column 1]
complete itinerary for the visit of the council
to Canada from Friday, 11th June, to
Wednesday, 30th June. Another publica-
tion prepared in readiness for the quinquen
nial reunion was a special report on “public
health” containing short accounts sent from
all the National Councils on recent progress
in the care of public health in their respec-
tive countries. The official delegates were
all supplied by the International Council
with name badges suspended on specially-
woven ribbon in purple, white and gold—
the colors of the council—and those who
wished might purchase the I. C. W. mono-
gram brooch adopted at Geneva and worked
in purple white and enamel, or in silver or
silver gilt.
	About 140 ladies attended the council
meetings as official delegates and proxies;
over 80 came from over-seas as ordinary
members or invited speakers for the con-
gress, and a number from the United States.
The average attendance at the business
meetings of the council was from 250 to
300.
	The first assembling of the delegatee upon
their arrival in Canada was at Quebec, when
on Friday, 11th June, Sir George Garnier,
the mayor, and the city authorities enter-
tained Her Excellency the Countess of Aber-
deen and the delegates to luncheon in the
Chateau Frontenac hotel. The delegates
were also driven to the old citadel, to the
famous battleground where Wolfe lost his
life, to the falls of Montmorency, and other
interesting places.
	At Montreal the next morning an execu-
tive Meeting was held, and until Monday
evening the delegates remained there as
guests of the local council of Montreal.
Victoria College, the Women’s Department
of the McGill University, was prettily ar-
ranged as headquarters, and the university
gave a large reception there on Saturday
evening. On Monday, a special train took
the delegates to St. Anne de Bellevue to
visit the Macdonald College for the training
of teachers in Agriculture and Domestic
Science, and they returned by steamer
through the famous Lachine Rapids of the
St. Lawrence. The Handicrafts Guild gave
a reception in the Art Gallery on Monday
evening. Tuesday was spent in Ottawa,
where the Hon. Mr. Fisher, Minister of Agri-
culture, conducted the delegates through
the Experimental Farm some miles out of
the town, and in the afternoon the Parlia-
ment buildings were visited, and all the de-
legates then went to the brilliant garden
party given in their honor by her Excellency
Countess Grey, wife of the Governor General
of Canada. Sir Wilfred Laurier, the Pre-
mier, and many of the most notable men
and women in Canada were present.
	Committee meetings commenced at Tor-
onto on the following day, Wednesday the
16th June, and a second executive meeting
occupied Thursday. On Wednesday even-
ing a public welcome was extended to the
president and council at a large meeting in
Convocation Hall. Lady Edgar, president
of the Canadian National Council of Women,
his honor the Lieut. Governor of the Prov-
ince of Ontario, his Worship the Mayor of
Toronto, and Professor Ramsey Wright, the
vice-president of the University gave cordial
greetings to the guests. The Countess of
Aberdeen responded on behalf of the coun-
cil, and gave her presidential address. On
Thursday evening, the Mayor and Mrs. Oliver
gave a reception in the City Hall.
	The business meetings of the council were
held on Friday, Saturday, Monday, Tues-

[Column 2]
day, the 18th to 22nd June, in the Univers-
ity buildings. Lunch was served each day 
in the buildings in a large hall, and the
waiting was done by girl students and their
friends. The girl students, wearing their
gowns, acted as ushers at the meetings and
in the corridors and entrance hall, and the
local hostesses and committee members
were unwearied in their care for the comfort
and convenience of the visitors.
	The reports of the officers and conveners,
and the presidents of affiliated National
Councils, were submitted and accepted for
publication in the Transactions. Letters
were read from the Hon. vice-presidents in
Russia and Finland, where there is every
prospect of National Councils being formed.
The secretary of the council in New Zealand
reported that their council was practically
non-existent at present, but desired
that their president, Mrs. Sheppard, be ap-
pointed an Hon. vice-president to try and re-
organize it. Communications of great hope
and interest were read from Mrs. Marcellus
Bowen in Constantinople and from Mrs.
Ellen Hopkins in Cairo, and it was resolved
to appoint two additional Hon. vice-presi-
dents for Turkey and Egypt.
	The names of three ladies were submitted
and accepted as Life-Patrons of the council,
Fru Maria Ekman Stockholm; Mrs. Henry
Bovey, Montreal; Frl. Helene Lange, Berlin.
As Quinquennial Patrons for 1909-1914 the
following ladies were proposed and accept-
ed: Frk. Mueller, Denmark; Countess Ruuth,
Sweden; Frl. Krajner, Hungary; Mrs. Emme-
line B. Wells and Mrs. Susa Young Gates,
U. S. A.; Mrs. Smythe, Australia; Mrs. Henry
Muff, Mrs. Forbes of Rothiemay, Mrs. Symes
Thomson, Mrs. Veitch, Miss Blackie from
Great Britain and Ireland.
	A letter from Lady MacLaren was read,
asking whether the International Council
would co-operate with the International
Women’s Suffrage Alliance in helping to
prepare a Women’s Charter, setting forth
the rights and wishes of women, and in pre
senting the Charter in 1910 simultaneously
to all civilized governments. On the proposal
of Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon, supported by the
Rev. Anna Shaw, Frau Hainish and others,
the following recommendation was unanim-
ously carried—“that any action to be taken
by the International Council in approaching
governments should in accordance with pre-
cedent be taken idependently of other asso-
ciations; and that as an excellent series of
reports on “Laws” had been published year
after year by the “Laws” committee of the
International Council of Women under the
Convenership of Baroness Olga von Besch-
witz, it be referred to that committee to
compile from these a special report not con-
fined to one year’s progress, but showing any
inequalities and deficiencies in existing laws
relating to women in the different countries
represented within the International Coun-
cil. That this report be then sent to the
governments in these countries, accompanied
by a letter from the executive of the Inter-
national Council, which should draw atten-
tion to the disadvantageous position of
women as shown in the report, and should
state that the International Council based
their support of Woman’s Suffrage on these
facts, and in order to secure the improve-
ment of such laws desired to possess the
only recognized constitutional means of im-
pressing their convictions and wishes upon
the representatives of the people in parlia-
ment.”
	An important discussion took place on a
proposal made by the National Council of

[Column 3]
the United States to alter the name of the
committee on “White Slave Traffic and
Equal Moral Standard” in such a way that
it should include the case of women of all
races, and not appear to be limited to the
white races. It was agreed to alter the name
to “Equal Moral Standard and Traffic in
Women.”
	In connection with the work of the coun-
cil in support of the principles of “Peace
and Arbitration” a resolution was passed
urging the National Councils to “promote
the use of such textbooks and reading-books
in schools as will present historical facts
with the least possible bias and to endeavour
to arouse a living interest in the modern
methods of peaceably settling international
difficulties.” The council also acted in fa-
vour of the observance of an annual “Peace
Day” by schools, universities, and churches,
or by special associations and Festivals. A
largely attended and enthusiastic public
meeting in support of peace was organized
by the council in the Massey Hall, over
which Sir Wm. Mulock presided. Addresses
were given by Mrs. May Wright Sewall, Frau
Hainisch, Mlle la Fontaine and Miss Rosa
Barrett. Other successful public meetings
were those held in the interests of “Public
Health” and “Women’s Suffrage.”
	A useful recommendation was passed by
the council for the protection of birds, and
to secure a stricter observance of close times
for birds and other animals. Another re-
commendation was to the effect that appli-
cation be made to the bureau of the uni-
versal postal union asking for a reduction of
postal rates and the introduction of some
simple form for “prepaid answer.” A dis-
cussion was held on the desirability of mak-
ing sure that those using the information
bureaux of the various National Councils
were bona fide members of councils and did
not take undue advantage of the bureaux
for private or individual purposes. It was
agreed that any National Council may sanc-
tion his own affiliated societies to make in-
quiries at the bureaux of other National
Councils and shall notify to the secretary of
the International Council at the beginning
of each quinquennial period the names and
addresses of the affiliated societies to whom
the privilege is given; but that members of
National Councils should not have this privi-
lege as individuals.
	Four National Councils had sent invita-
tions to the international body to hold the
quinquennial reunion of 1914 in their re-
spective countries—Australia, Norway,
France, and Italy. By vote of the council,
it was decided that it should be held in
Rome, in April or May of 1914. For the
two executive sessions during the quinquen-
nial period, the places chosen were Stock-
holm in 1911, and the Netherlands in 1913.
	The officers elected for the next quinquen-
nial period were her Excellency the Countess
of Aberdeen, president; Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon,
Countess Spalletti Rasponi and Frau Hainisch
as 1st, 2nd and 3rd vice-president; Dr. Alice
Salomon as Hon. Cor. Secretary; Dr. Alex-
andra Skoglund as Hon. Rec. Secretary, and
Mrs. W. E. Sanford as Hon. treasurer. Mrs.
May Wright Sewall was re-elected an Hon.
president. It w[-]s unanimously agreed to
employ a paid assistant secretary to work
under the Hon. Cor. secretary, and Miss
Dorothy Brackett, who had worked six
months with Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon, was ap-
pointed to the post.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall was re-elected
convener of the “Peace and Arbitration”
committee, Mme. Avril de Ste-Croix of the


committee on “Equal Moral Standard and
Traffic in Women,” Dr. Anna Shaw of the
committee of “Women’s Suffrage,” and
Mme. d’Abbadie d’Arrast of the committee
on “Laws.”
	The only change in the Convenership of
committees was the election of Mrs. Wil-
loughby Cummings to the “Finance” Com-
mittee on the resignation of Frl. Helene
Lange; and the election of Miss Johanna
Naber to the “Press” committee. Three new
standing committees were appointed—
“Public Health” with the president as con-
vener; “Education” with the first vice-presi-
dent as convener; and “Emigration and Im-
migration” with Signora Danieli as con-
vener.
	The meetings of the International Con-
gress of Women commenced on Thursday,
24th June, and drew large audiences
throughout the entire series. Both the con-
gress and the subsequent tour through Wes-
tern Canada, with return through the United
States, afforded favorable opportunities for
full and frank interchange of views between
delegates of the International Council of
Women, and no one who was present can
doubt the immeasurable benefit of such op-
portunities, and their value in bringing en-
lightenment and inspiration to the council
workers in the various countries.
	MARIA M. OGILVIE GORDON,
			1st Vice-Pres.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
			CASSIA STAKE.
	The annual Relief Society conference of
Cassia Stake of Zion was held June 11,
1909, in the Oakley 4th ward chapel, Oakley,
Idaho, President Alice Sessions presiding.
After the usual opening exercises a roll of
Stake officers and representatives was called.
Eleven wards out of a total number of four-
teen were represented.
	Sisters Alice M. Horne and Minnie H.
James of the General Board were in attend-
ance. Two sessions of the conference were
held at which each Relief Society represent-
ed was reported in good condition.
	President William T. Jack of the Stake
Presidency discoursed upon the purpose of
Relief Society organization, the storing of
grain, the necessity of sending sisters to take
a course in nursing, better support to the
Woman’s Exponent, the duties of wife and
mother, and the responsibility of parents to
children. Much interest wa[-] [---]ifested by
all present in the subjects p[---] The
proceedings were intersperse[---] solos
from Sisters Maggie Whittle [---] B.
Dayley, and a reading by Sister[---]
Thomas.
		FORTHILDA FUNK.
					Stake Sec.

			LIBERTY STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of Liberty
Stake Relief Society was held in the 9th
ward meetinghouse June 24, 1909, at 10 a.
m. and 2 p. m.. President Annie S. Musser
presiding.
	Sister Rebecca Nibley and Alice M. Horne
of the General Board, also Elders Milando
Pratt and Charles W. Symons, of the High
Council of Liberty Stake were present. All
of the Stake Board were present, and repre-
sentatives from each ward.
	Miss Lillian Branting was the soloist.
	At the morning session the statistical and

[Column 2]
financial report for the year ending Dec.
1908 were read and accepted. Reports were
made by the presidents of the various wards
and the society in each ward was reported as
progressing favorably. Sisters Rebecca Nib-
ley and Alice M. Home made some timely
remarks and gave some good instructions,
encouraged us in our work, and thought we
had always been a great help to the priest-
hood. 
	At the afternoon session the members of
the General Board of the Relief Society, also
of the Stake Board were unanimously sus-
tained. Sisters M. Pratt and Martha Morris
reported for the Relief Society special mis-
sionary work as progressing and a good
work being performed.
	Sister Jennie Lloyd delivered a lecture on
the life of Miss Francis E. Willard, also
spoke for a short time on the purity of our
society, of our homes and children.
	Sister Horne again addressed us, speaking
words of encouragement to help us in our
every day life. Elder Symons also spoke
for a short time.
	President Musser made a few closing re-
marks, thanking all who had helped to make
our conference a success. After closing
exercises conference adjourned for six
months.
		LIZZIE ROBBINS, Sec.

		YELLOWSTONE STAKE.
	The Yellowstone stake Relief Society
conference convened at St. Anthony, August
8, 1909, President Julia E. Miller presiding.
	There were present the Stake presidency,
several high counselors, Sisters Sarah J.
Cannon and Hattie B. Harker, of the Gener-
al Board, and Sisters Barnes and Baliff of
the Fremont Relief Society.
	The morning session commenced by sing-
ing. Prayer was offered by President Dan-
iel G. Miller. Four wards were reported as
being in good condition. President Julia
E. Miller reported the societies throughout
the stake as being in a thriving condi-
tion.
	A duet was sung by Sisters Amelia Barnes
and Katherine Flint.
	Sister Harker, of the General Board, spoke
to the sisters on the need of studying the
Gospel.
	Sister Sarah Barnes of Fremont Stake
spoke for a short time on forming char-
acter,
	After singing, benediction was pronounced
by Brother M. I. Kerr.
	Afternoon session commenced by singing.
Prayer was offered by President M. I.
Kerr.
	President Julia E. Miller welcomed the
sisters to the conference and reported the
officers as being strict observers of the word
of wisdom.
	A solo was sung by Sister Vilate Rigby.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon, of the General
Board, spoke encouragingly to the teachers
and told what a noble work was theirs.
	Sister Harker spoke for a short time on
the different duties of Relief Society work-
ers.
	Solo by Sister Emily Baliff.
	Remarks were made by President David
G. Miller, Marion J. Kerr, and Joseph E.
Fogg,
	First Counselor Mary J. Miller gave a
short talk on the storing of grain.
	After singing, benediction was pronounced
by Bishop Arnold D. Miller, Sr.
				MARY E. BROWER,
						Stake Secretary.

[Column 3]
			NEBO STAKE.
	Minutes of the quarterly conference of
Nebo Stake Relief Society held at Spanish
Fork, Utah, July 25, 1909.
	Conference convened at 10 o’clock a. m.
President Eliza J. Dixon presiding. After
opening exercises, Sister Tuttle spoke a few
words of welcome. Sister Naples, first
counselor, spoke for a short time, was glad
to see so many present, nearly all the wards
represented.
	President Dixon reported Nebo Stake Re-
lief Society, 1,039 members enrolled, aver-
age attendance, 25 per cent, 8 Relief So-
ciety halls, 9 granaries, all wards doing a
good work, and much credit was due for
the labor of the sisters in preparing the
dead for burial.
	Sister Pickering reported Payson 1st
ward in good condition. Sister Higgins of
Knightsville reported her ward all united
and doing a good work. Sister Pierce re-
ported Salem ward in good condition, their
sick well taken care of, and teachers doing
a good work.
	Song by Sister Dollie Rigdon, “The Song
my Mother used to Sing,”
	Sister Grant, member of the General
Board, spoke, thought the first duty of
mothers was to take care of their children,
for they are the only things we can take
with us when we leave this life, was well
pleased with the report of the work being
done in this stake, advised us to keep our
books well, that we may have credit for
what we are doing, gave words of encour-
agement to the sisters in their labors,
	Sister H. B. Harker, one of the members
of the General Board, was pleased to see so
many young mothers present, thought it
would be an injustice to leave the Relief So-
ciety work all to the older sisters. The
place for the young mothers is in the Relief
Society, for they can get useful instructions
in rearing their children, advised sending
out special missionaries to increase our at-
tendance, said we are blessed only as we
bless others.
	Song by a sister from the 4th ward of
Spanish Fork, “Always take Mother’s
Advice.”
	After singing and prayer, conference ad-
journed until 2 p.m.
	At 2 p. m. conference reconvened, Presi-
dent Eliza J. Dixon presiding. After open-
ing exercises, a lesson was given by Sister
Jane Bradford on the subject of prayer, Sis-
ter Markham on the effect of prayer; Sister
Hughes, when and how to pray; Sister
Roach, value and habit of prayer.
	Song, Sister Sadie Louis, “My Faith in
Thee.”
	Sister Grant said the things we had list-
ened to were beautiful. Gave some of her
early day experiences, had known all of the
prophets of the Church, was 12 years old
when Joseph Smith was martyred, was ac-
quainted with the prophet and knew him
well, he was a more noble looking man
than any of his pictures portray. Said we
do not always appreciate the Gospel as we
should; she was a pioneer of ’47. Spoke
some time on faith, related circumstances
on that subject; thought we should teach our
children the word of wisdom by example
and to honor those who are placed over
them, honor those in authority. Sister
Grant was 77 years old July 25, 1909.
	Recitation by Sister Hannah Hansen,
“Listen to Mother.”
	Sister Harker said we are all brothers and
sisters, and family ties are very strong; we


[Column 1]
should work as not only Relief Society work
but God’s work, we can accomplish a great
work through the help of the Lord.
	Bishop McKell was well pleased with the
remarks that had been made; asked the
blessing of the Lord on the stake officers.
	Sister Dixon made a few closing remarks
and thanked the people of Spanish Fork for
their kindness.
	Conference adjourned for three months by
singing, and benediction by Sister Baxter.
		ELIZA A. HAWKINS, Cor. Sec.

		BINGHAM STAKE.
	Our conference of Bingham stake con-
vened in Idaho Falls, July 14, 1909, in the
L. D. S. Church at 10 a. m. President El-
vira C. Steele presiding.
	Opened with singing and prayer by Patri-
arch R. L Bybee; minutes and roll call by
Stake Secretary Jensine Johansen, and there
was a very good representation of all the
wards.
	The Stake Board of thirteen were all pres-
ent but one and she was excused.
	President Steele reported the Relief Socie-
ty work progressing nicely, felt more than
pleased to have Sisters Sarah Jenne Cannon
and Minnie H. James of the General Board
with us.
	After hearing reports from some of the
wards, which were very good, Sister Cannon
was introduced; was delighted with the
beautiful place to meet in and gave us just
the good Relief Society talk we were need-
ing; advised mothers to take good care of
their children, and bring them to meetings;
said many other beautiful things, etc.
	Sister Minnie James was introduced; felt
she was not gifted as her noble mother was
in speaking, but gave us same very good
talk in her pleasing way, urged all to be
more diligent in this great and good work,
that our beloved Prophet Joseph had organ-
ized for us; let us appreciate this fact and
go on our way with love in our hearts for all
mankind.
	Patriarch Robert L. Bybee felt we were
highly favored of the Lord, we should listen
to and put in practice the good things we
hear and may the Lord bless us all to do
His will.
	After singing and benediction by Bishop
C. W. Rockwood conference adjourned until
2 p. m.
	The sisters of Idaho Falls entertained all
present, “in the basement,” to a delicious
banquet where all enjoved themselves soci-
ally and had a lovely time and especially in
the company of our visitors, Sisters Cannon
and James.
	Met again at 2 p. m. After the usual
exercises we again listened to some very
good reports; the house was almost filled
with smiling faces. President Heber C.
Austin and Bishop Wright were also present.
	Sister Cannon again addressed us in her
motherly way, which reached all; bore her
testimony to the truth of the Gospel, also of
having seen the Prophet Joseph Smith when
a child, etc., etc.
	Sister James again spoke to us, related
some of her early remembrances in the lives
of some of our leaders and particularly the
relating of the first vision of the Prophet
Joseph by himself to her mother, and many
other beautiful things.
	Counselors Sisters Rockwood and Brunt
each expressed themselves as being well
pleased with our conference, trusted we
would profit by the good things we had
heard.
	President Austin felt pleased with the

[Column 2]
spirit of the meetings, felt to especially im-
press upon all the plan of living within our
income and providing ourselves with wheat,
or flour for at least one year ahead, and desired
to have wives use their influence with their
husbands to this end and said may the Lord
bless you in all your labors, etc.
	A solo was rendered by Jos. Morley.
	Bishop Rockwood of Iona felt that he was
a Relief Society Bishop, as he generally at-
tended these conferences and was very
pleased to do so, appreciated the work of
the Society, urged a little more strict atten-
tion to the needs of the poor; and looking
after the wheat and the proper care of it,
and advised many other good things.
	Miss Beatrice Pike sang a most beautiful
solo.
	President E. C. Steele felt to thank all
who had assisted in making our conference
so enjoyable, especially the ladies of Idaho
Falls for their banquet, under the able man-
agement of President Shippen.
	Singing the song called “Idaho,” chorister
Mary A. Holden; prayer by Bishop Wright
of Lincoln.
		ELVIRA C. STEELE, President.

			SEVIER STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society conference held
in Salina Aug 21, 1909. Meeting convened
in Relief Society Hall, President Christine
Sorensen presiding. Singing by choir and
congregation, “O, blest was the day.” Prayer
by Brother T. Humphrey. Singing; “Once
more my soul the rising sun.”
	President E. M. Humphrey of Salina wel-
comed all present and was pleased to see the
brethren present. Said let us be contented
with our surroundings.
	Stake President C. W. Sorensen spoke
of duties in Relief Society work; there are
many different branches for us to talk
about, mentioned the Nurse School.
	The secretary read from the Exponent
about the Nurse School, also bore faithful
testimony of blessings received while prac-
tising obstetrics in 25 years past. Encour-
aged the young sisters to attend these
classes.
	Bishop Sorensen was pleased to have the
sisters hold their conferenec here, made all
welcome, hoped we enjoyed our opportuni-
ties, said the Bishopric are pleased with the
labors of the Salina Relief Society; they are
doing their duty well.
	The song, “I Have Read of a Beautiful
City” was beautifully rendered by Sister
Mary Christensen.
	Sister Caroline Nielson read a poem,
“Discontent in Church.”
	Second Counselor Caroline Bohman said
there is a great lesson to be learned in the
poem. Bore her testimony of the Gospel,
spoke of the duties of mothers in teaching
their children the ways of the Lord. There
is so much wickedness in the world. En-
couraged the sisters to gather in grain and
take care of it faithfully.
	President Martin Jenson, of Richfield,
said, “I feel timid, as it is quite recently we
brethren have joined the Relief Society.
We are appointed by our stake authorities
to give reports of the different auxiliary or-

[Column 3]
ganizations. Hope we may not be too busy
to work out our salvation. This is a school
to prepare us for glory in the celestial king-
dom in store for the faithful.”
	Singing and Benediction.
	Conference continued at 2 p. m., Presi-
dent C. W. Sorensen presiding. Singing,
“Great God attend while Zion sings.”
	Prayer by Brother Hans Godfriedsen.
	Singing, “Sweet hour of prayer.”
	Secretary M. Swindle read from Exponent
of June, 1909, “Report to National Council
of Women.”
	President C. W. Sorenson made some re-
marks on labors of N. W. R. S. Urged the
sisters to subscribe for the Exponent. We
should help this paper along, it is our paper;
spoke of the great work done by Sister E. B.
Wells, also spoke on gathering grain, en-
dorsed what Sister Bohman had said; let us
keep up this mission.
	Brother Franze, choir leader of Salina,
sang “Daughters of Zion,” by Mrs. Annie
Wells Cannon; very nicely rendered.
	Sister Mary Ann Nickerson, nearly 87
years old, gave some of her experiences. She
has belonged to the Church since she was 16
years old, knew the Prophet Joseph Smith,
shared joy and sorrow with him while he
lived. She has passed through many trying
scenes; she hopes to go and meet the Bride-
groom and never be found wanting.
	Brother L. P. Jensen, of Richfield can say
like Brother M. Jensen, he is a new member
in the Relief Society. It is a pleasure to
listen to instructions given by the sisters.
Spoke of raising our children, made some
encouraging remarks, also spoke of the
grasshopper war, endorsed what was said
about the gathering of wheat.
	Brother James Jensen, of Salina, was
pleased to be here this afternoon and hear
instructions given. It is a little over 67
years since the Relief Society was organized
and we can judge [--] it has done any good
since. Spoke of laws laid down by our
Creator, we should be governed by them,
also of the trials endured by the pioneers to
build up this great commonwealth.
	Brother Martin Jensen asked the privilege
of speaking in favor of the Exponent. Asked
how many subscribers are in the congrega-
tion? Nine hands were held up as sub-
scribers present. He said “Let us double
it,” and he headed the list with one dollar,
after which nine more subscriptions fol-
lowed. Encouraged sisters to continue to
increase subscriptions while visiting through
the stake.
	President C. W. Sorensen was truly glad
to see our conference terminate so favor-
ably and to see good brethren helping with
the Exponent; hoped we might get more sub-
scribers. She thanked the choir for sweet
music.
	After benediction conference adjourned
for three months or until further notice.
	Singing, Woman’s Battle Song, “On-
ward Christian Woman.”
	Benediction by Brother Joseph Ogden of
Richfield.
	The words for this song were composed by
the Salina Relief Society sisters.
				M. SWINDLE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67-69-71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY
LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.
TRY US


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

