
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 38.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE, 1909.						No. 1.


CONTENTS.
									PAGE
The Quinquennial............Romania B. Penrose	1
Relief Society Stake Reports: Beaver..............	2
	Uintah.......................................................	7
Notes and News................................................	2
Switzerland...............................Lydia D. Alder	3
Report of the National Womans Relief Society
	...................................Emmeline B. Wells	5
Reorganization and Party...........M. S. Dowdle	6
Two Secretaryships to be Filled.......................	6
Resolutions of Appreciation............................	7
In Memoriam of Martha M. Miller..................	7
Obituary...........................................................	7
Relief Society School of Nurses......................	8
A Mother Honored by her Children.................	8
Editorial:—A Great Day for Old People..........	4
	Birthday Party..........................................	4
	June Conferences and Reunions..............	6
	Editorial Notes ........................................	5
Poetry:—We Do Not Call Thee Chieftain.......
	..................................Sarah E.Carmichael	1
	I Will Answer for My People...................
	..........................................Ida Sutherland	1
Out of the Depths...............Margaret E. Canon	3
	Life’s Milestones.......Emmeline B. Wells	4


WE DO NOT CALL THEE CHIEFTAIN.
	We do not call thee Chieftain,
		We do not name thee King;
	We wreathe no brilliants for thy brow,
		No ermine round thee fling;
	And thou art crowned, but with the light
		That gilds the throne above;
	Thy lofty spirit’s wealth of power,
		Thy people’s clinging love.
	We do not call thee Chieftain,
		Thy cheek would flush to hear
	Eearth’s titles woven with thy name,
		And whispered in thine ear.
	As well presume to gild the sun,
		Or paint earth’s brightest flowers;
	We only call thee Brigham Young,
		We only call, thee ours.
	We do not call thee Chieftain,
		Let golden crowns be wrought
	For brows unhallowed by the touch
		Of soul ennobling thought;
	But thou—the, purest holiest prayer
		To listening angels flung 
	Is whispered when the people breathe
		The name of Brigham Young.
				SARAH E. CARMICHAEL.
Bowery, August 8, 1857.


I WILL ANSWER FOR MY PEOPLE.
“I will answer for my people” was the virgin
	monarch’s boast.
When flatterers bade her guard her life amid her
	armed host.
“My throne is based on England’s love, or her
	crown would worthless be;
And my sceptre well might tremble, were its
	guardian “Tyranny.”
’Twas well heroic maiden, that eagle glance of
	yore,
And well the grovelling sycophant might quail
	such tones before.
Yet I have heard a loftier tone, a nobler glance
	I’ve seen,
Then e’er decked earth-born majesty, or graced a
	courtly scene.
“I will answer for the people in danger’s, darkest
	hour,
I will answer for the people against each hostile
	power;
I will answer for the people, for their every care
	is mine,
And I ask no odds of mortal foe, my mission is
	divine.”


Such were the sounds that thrilled around when
	Zion’s Prophet rose,
Knowing the hearts that trusted him, would bleed
	for his repose;
And prouder, loftier, was his mien, aye, more
	than kingly, when
From all that vast assembly came as from one
	man. Amen.
Aye, answer for thy people, thou, their lion heart
	of truth,
Answer again, again, again from hoary age to
	youth,
We will not own another chief, nor brook an-
	other’s sway,
Until his voice shall will it so whose word all
	Saints obey.
August 1857.			IDA SUTHERLAND.


[Column 1]
		THE QUINQUENNIAL.
The International Woman’s Suffrage Alli-
ance Congress, held in London, April 26th
		to May 1st inclusive, 1909.
	The Quinquennial of 1909 is now a matter
of history and its pages will stand through-
out the ages as a red letter record. I have
attended the last two congresses and if the
improvement has been in the same ratio
from the first one the advance is amazing
and memorable. Only a brief and general
report can be given for even a concise notice
of each nation would result in a book.
	The ability that women have developed in
forming and working in organized bodies,
observing the strictest parliamentary rules
and maintaining perfect order is far above
that of many similar bodies of men where
they often descend to bitter criticisms and
personalities most unbecoming.
	The Congress of 1909 was held in St.
James’ Hall Gt. Portland St., London, April
26th to May 1st inclusive. St. James’ Hall
is a large, and handsome one, with a fine
gallery and platform. All around the gallery
were hung flags of twenty-one Societies. The
platform was occupied by the officers of the
congress, the same as last year except Mrs.
Rachel Foster Avery whose genial face was
missed by all who have had the pleasure of
her acquaintance.
	The President Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt
presided with her usual grace and dignity
and by her genial diplomacy avoided several
times the danger of a collision, when some
members showed signs of belligerence.
	The President’s address of over an hour in
delivery was a most masterly effort, full of
interest, wit and accurate knowledge of wo-
man’s work the world over. The work done
by the interpreters Madam Schirmacher in
French and Dr. Anita Ausburg in German
was most ably rendered. Not the least in-
teresting fact noted was the great number of
representatives of different nationalities
speaking and understanding the English
language.
	Truly the Key was turned and the door
opened for the emancipation of women by
Joseph Smith the Latter day Prophet, March
17th, 1842, when he organized the first Re-
lief Society. Six years later, 1848, was the
next organization in all the world having for
its object more freedom for women. It ap-
pears a foregone conclusion that the twen-
tieth century will not have vanished into the
past until freedom unto both men and women

[Column 2]
will be a gift of heaven fully realized. The
capacity of women to get down to hard and
tedious public work and to stay with it until
completed was thoroughly demonstrated in
this last convention. It took three days to
revise the constitution. But it was finally
so well accomplished that it is hoped it will
meet the need and approbation of all na-
tions. A curious incident occurred during
the revision when it was moved by Russia
and seconded by Germany that when a reso-
lution was once passed there could never be
a reconsideration. I was about on my feet
to say if women were infallible and omni-
scient such a motion possibly might be in
order but until that time it seems safer to
have the opportunity to reconsider but Miss
Anna Shaw was on her feet first and expres-
sed the same sentiment, but not in quite
such emphatic words.
	The reports from the different countries
were most encouraging, some more so than
others but all showing that the rays of the
light of freedom are gradually penetrating
the pall of darkness which has for centuries
covered the people.
	Fru. Qvam, Representative of the Norwe-
gian Government brought from her Majesty
the Queen of Norway a gracious message to
the convention, expressing the hope that the
work of the International Woman’s Suffrage
Alliance would be for the good of the home
and the happiness of women.
	In Russia the women were permitted to
hold a successful congress of women in De-
cember 1908, but were surrounded on the
outside of the hall by a cordon of police and
they were also in the audience watching with
the utmost vigilance for a pretext to dissolve
and dismiss the assembly. The unconquer-
able and inherent love of freedom which is
Godgiven to every human being through his
free agency was exemplified in the coup the
women made as the finishing touch of their
congress. By prearrangement a member at
the very last moment arose and offered a re-
solution against capital punishment and
all arose in affirmative acclamation. The
police were so astounded by this bold move
that the assembly was dissolved before they
shouted for its dissolution. The President
simply replied Ah! it is already dissolved.
	Wednesday evening there was an official
dinner given at the Princess Restaurant, a
most palatial place which was an elaborate
affair both as to the dinner, the dresses and
the number in attendance. After nine
courses were served and the coffee brought
in a lady (?) at the table where I sat passed
some cigarettes, five or six women accepted
and, when one women from Sweden asked a
British women if it would “be proper to
smoke.” she promptly answered “perfectly
proper” and they lit them and puffed away
like men. Not being asked if I objected to
smoking having refused the cigarette I
promptly placed my handkerchief over my
nose and mouth.
	A crowded reception followed, Mrs. Faw-
cett acting as hostess. Excursions, Lunch-
eons and Breakfasts were in evidence a part
of every day.
	Thursday evening after two arduous meet-
ings revising the constitution a grand pa-


[Column 1]
rade of women proceeded to the Royal Albert
Hall, the largest in the world where the Mi-
litant Suffragettes had invited the Delegates
of the Alliance, about 200 accepting the in-
vitation and were given the best boxes.
	The W. S. P. U. took this plan to explain
their methods and reasons for their militant
proceedings. Mrs. Pankhurst, Miss Chris-
tobel Pankhurst and Mrs. Pettrick Lawrence
were the principal speakers and were most
enthusiastically received and applauded dur-
ing their speeches.
	Two collections were taken and five thou-
sand dollars were realized for the cause.
	Near the close of the last session of the
Alliance the Chair suggested that motto for
the Alliance should be: “In essentials unity;
in non-essentials liberty; in all things char-
ity.” This was adopted and decided to be
written in the Latin language. The chair
also suggested that the unfinished business
be left to the officers and one delegate from
each country—it was moved by Miss Kra-
mers, seconded and carried.
	Mrs. Chapman Catt then thanked the retir-
ing officers for their untiring work and abil-
ity and all the members of the meeting. She
concluded by quoting the memorable sent-
ence: “If we make a long pull, a strong pull
and pull altogether, we shall secure the en-
franchisement of the women of the world for
all generations to come.” Then the public
meetings of the great Quinquennial were
concluded.
	May 3rd. The officers of the Alliance and
representatives of twelve countries met at
25 Victoria St. S. W. and decided upon the
Alliance colors which were to be white and
gold. An International Hymn was decided
upon which is as follows:
	THE WOMEN’S BATTLE SONG.
		Forward, sister, forward!
			Onward ever more,
		Bondage is behind you
			Freedom is before
		Raise the standard boldly,
			In the morning sun;
		’Gainst a great injustice,
			See the fight begun.
				Chorus:
		Forward, forward sisters
			Onward evermore!
		Bondage is behind you
			Freedom is before.
		Women’s hands have labored
			Giving love and life
		Yours is now to follow,
			In the glorious strife.
		Lift the burden gladly
			Strong in right and youth
		Victors, wreathes must crown you
			Naught can conquer truth.
				Chorus:
			Written by Mrs. Flower Mills.
	It was decided to arrange a competition
for the music for the hymn, the music to be
sent to the National President of each
country. It would be fine if musical Utah
could furnish it.
	It was decided by this committee to ac-
cept provisionally the invitation for a Mid-
summer Convention in Stockholm, Sweden,
in 1911. Both countries being free to with-
draw. An invitation from a Viennese com-
mittee for 1913 was accepted on the same
terms.
	In conclusion it is to be noted that this
wonderful congress of women composed of
almost world wide representatives was char-
acterized by the most complete order and
unanimity of work for the good of all and
was so comprehensive in scope as to link

[Column 2]
many nations into a unity of action and pur-
pose.
	It pressed the conviction to the hearts of
all united in this cause that to work with
renewed vigor and diligence and wisdom
that finally the fullest fruition of its mission
will be accomplished.
				ROMANIA B. PENROSE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			BEAVER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Beaver
Stake convened at Relief Society Hall,
Beaver City, Friday, May 14, 1909, at 10 a.
m. and 2 p. m. There were present Pat-
riarch George Mumford and Stake Clerk
William G. Bickley.
	President Cedaressa C. Shepherd presided.
	After the opening exercises and roll call
reports were given by the presidents of the
ward organizations, who expressed them-
selves as deeply interested in Relief Soci-
ety work.
	President Shepherd reported the visits of
herself and other members of the board to
all the wards in the stake, which with the
exception of one, were found to be in a live,
active condition.
	Stake Counselor Harriet Fotheringham
gave an interesting account of her four
years’s mission in St. George Temple, and
urged the sisters to interest themselves more
in the beautiful, noble work, either by going
themselves or sendiug means that others
might be able to do it.
	An interesting and timely lecture entit-
led “Keep Holy the Sabbath Day,” was
given by Sister Bradfield of Minersville.
Vocal solo, Sister Maggie Easton, of Green-
ville.
	Sister Jane W. Bickley had enjoyed the
remarks this morning, and thought the say-
ing of our Savior was verified this morning
that where two or three are gathered togeth-
er He also would be there. Said the moral
taught in the lecture was indeed timely.
Let us as parents set the example and our
children will follow. Sister Doressa Robin-
son spoke in the interest of the Primary as-
sociations, and encouraged parents to bring
their children and visit themselves to see
what is being taught their children.
	Sisters Lightner, Agnes Hutchings and
Annie Vincent bore their testimonies to the
great good of this benevolent cause, and
were thankful to be workers in the same,
gave words of encouragement to the sisters.
	Brother William G. Bickley said he
believed that these conferences helped to
warm us up to our duties and made us
stronger and more faithful to the work, also
spoke on the beauties and wonders of the
Gospel. Encouraged all to work with a
will, to gain the blessings given to the
faithful.
	After singing and prayer recess was taken
until 2 p. m.
	At the afternoon session the same officers
were present and a large attendance of
members.
	The roll showed all the wards but one
represented. Statistical and financial reports
for the year 1908 read. General and Stake
Boards sustained. Vocal solo, Sister Mary
Fernley.
	Sister Nancy Rollins reported the Mur-
dock Academy branch, had only thirteen
enrolled, but thought when school started
again they would be able to do a good work.
Stake Counselor Mary A. White made inter-

[Column 2]
esting remarks on our duties as officers and
members, also on having love and charity
for all, and the training of our half-grown
girls, and gave words of encouragement to
the young mothers.
	Recitation, “Fulfilling of Prophecy,” Sis-
ter Betsy S. Goodwin. Sisters Mary Morris,
Irene Farnsworth and Mary Frazer, Eliza-
beth Robinson and Ellen M. Skinner, each
made a few remarks relating to Relief
Society and temple work. Patriarch George
Mumford had been much pleased with the
spirit manifest today and to see all so willing
to help this work along; he had been visit-
ing every Sunday morning (with some of
the Relief Society sisters,) the aged and
infirm sisters who could not attend meetings
and administering the sacrament to them
and had indeed been well paid by so doing.
	Reading, “The Glory of Motherhood,”
Sister Mary Green. President Cedaressa C.
Shepherd expressed her pleasure at having
had such a successful conference and felt
that we had received much that would en-
courage us in our duties.
	Prayer, William G. Bickley.
		CLARISSA E. PARKINSON, Secretary.


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Syracuse University last week conferred
upon Mrs. Belya A. Lockwood the degree of
Doctor of Laws.
	“Dr. Dora Martin, of Oklahoma, National
organizer of the Anti-Cigarette League, re-
turned from Panama, where her work was
highly commended by government officials.”
	Mrs. Haslam, who attended the recent In-
ternational Suffrage Congress in London as
a fraternal delegate from Ireland, pointed
out that every time a woman’s suffrage bill
has come up in the House of Commons
since the first one introduced forty years ago;
by John Stuart Mill, the majority of the
Irish members have always voted in its
favor.
	Of the five women who received their de-
grees from the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology at the recent commencement,
four were graduated from the department of
architecture. Miss Mabel K. Babcock of
Wellesley Hills, Mass., the only woman who
received the M. S. degree, is a B. A. graduate
from Wellesley College, and she took the B.
S. degree in architecture last year at Tech-
nology.
	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe was this week
given the degree of Doctor of Literature by
Brown University. Ex-Chief Justice John
H. Stiness, a member of the University
Board of Fellows, was interviewed on the
subject. He said: “It was the consensus
of opinion among the Fellows that Mrs.
Howe should be so honored. No woman of
our time has been more prominent in the
history of our country. Mrs. Howe has writ-
ten in ineffaceable characters the nation’s
hymn; a production which did more to stir
the masses, to arouse a spirit of patriotism
and to cause men to rally to the defence of
the country, than all the meetings that were
held to secure enlistments. The sentiment
of that hymn was burned into the hearts of
the people; it stirred men to valorous deeds,
and long after she has passed to her reward,
her name will be on the tongues of a grate-
ful and appreciative people. Mrs. Howe is
a great and noble woman, and, in honoring
her, Brown University honors itself.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OUT OF THE DEPTHS.
Lord God of hosts, Thou art
	A God of peace,
From all the woes of war,
	O send release.
We caunot trace Thy hand
	In this dark war,
For sin and cruelty
	Thou dost abhor.
Lord, Thou canst sin defeat
	In every form;
Canst still the wind and wave,
	Control the storm.
Thou canst reach forth Thine hand
	And quell all strife,
Out of the depths of death
	Bring hope and life.
As so we come, O Lord,
	In this dark hour,
And pray Thee manifest
	Thy mighty power,
And o’er all the earth
	Bid warfare cease.
Out of the depths we cry
	To Thee—for peace.
			MARGARET E. CANON.


[Column 1]
			SWITZERLAND.
	One can tell he is in Switzerland, as soon as
the first station is reached by the tones of the
bells, while those of Germany are heavy—a
ding-dong—those of Switzerland are light
and silvery of tone—a ting—a ling-ling, like
wedding bells or happy bells of welcome.
The trains, in coming or outgoing, in these
countries are announced by bells at the sta-
tions. It is interesting to note the gradual
change of architecture as we pass over the
boundary lines of countries, also the dress
and costumes of the people.
	In a mountainous country like Switzerland,
the height very materially influences the cli-
mate, the purity of the atmosphere being re-
gulated by the height above sea level. Apart
from the presence of manufactories, or other
sources of atmospheric impurity, the number
of bacteria steadily diminishes as we ascend,
until at about 1850 feet above sea level, they
entirely disappear. The mountain air fresh
and pure, is highly beneficial in its effects.
The frequency of rain in the mountain re-
gions is disagreeable and thunderstorms are
common on summer afternoons. The crest of
the Alps acts as a huge dividing wall be-
tween the Polar and Equatorial Winds, the
latter often depositing their moisture, in
rainfalls on the south side of the mountain-
range. The best known wind is the Fohn,
a warm south wind, which blows with great
impetuosity in East Switzerland, in the up-
per valleys of the Rhine, Limte, Reuss and
Rhone. It is usually followed by rain. It
is estimated that the Fohn blows seventeen
days in spring, five in summer and sixteen
days in autumn. Under its influence the
barometer falls rapidly, while the thermo-
meter rises; the atmosphere becomes thick
and oppressive; a dense haze envelopes the
mountains, finally a dangerous storm sweeps
over them. The local winds, prevailing on
the higher levels, should be observed by
health seekers; the regular morning-wind
always blowing down-hill, while the evening-
wind blows up-hill.
	The Swiss forests are but few in number,
and have little effect on the atmospheric
moisture, or the extremes of temperature.
In some parts of Switzerland, at the base of
towering snow-capped mountains, green pas-
tures and browsing cattle are to be seen, form-
ing a landscape picture of interest and beauty.
These extensive grassy slopes and pastures,
operate very much as forests do in other

[Column 2]
lands, producing a summer climate, warm
and moist. Switzerland is a land of health
resorts, those of Appenzell, and on the shores
of Lake Geneva being highly recommended for
sufferers from various ailments. The peaceful
scenes, pure air, and retirement from noise and
bustle, having much to do with improved
health conditions. The spiritual nature is
stirred. The majesty of God is made mani-
fest in the sublimity of mountains eternally
capped with snow. Perchance, in gazing on
yonder high peak, we behold Him seated on
his glittering throne surrounded by his glis-
tening court. The sky’s deep blue, seeming-
ly is the throne’s tapestry, on which the
changing clouds are weaving those gorgeous
pictures, where silence and solitude reigns.
Behold a great council is being held: those
lesser peaks rising afar are members, and
all await, his majesty, the Snow King’s
Proclamation, who is sole ruler of the fast-
nesses, glaciers and torrents so far removed
from the foot of man. The picture sublime;
you gaze at the eternal white city; with the
great throne towering in the midst. Thought
has flown far away; a glimpse of eternal
beauty thrills the soul, with a start, a sigh
we awaken, our eyes still resting on a scene
of Alpine splendor, though the king and
court have faded away.
	Tradition tells us that Switzerland was
first peopled by the Rhaeti, whom the Hel-
vetii, a Celtic tribe drove from the plains
into the mountains. They, in their turn
were conquered by the Romans B. C. 58,
by them also the Rheati were subdued in 15
B. C. The Romans made fine military roads
in different parts of Switzerland, from settle-
ment to settlement, a portion of which once
belonged to Gaul. Before the time of Con-
stantine the Helvetii had become extinct.
Helvetia, under the Romans had a flourish-
ing trade, which built up towns and cities.
A Romanic dialect is still spoken in some
parts of Switzerland. Hordes of Barbarians,
swept through the peaceful Alpine vales, in 
about 400 A. D. and occupied all of north
Switzerland, where German is now spoken,
and south Switzerland where Italian and
Romanisch are still to be heard.
	The Franks gradually subdued these races;
they took possession of the country, but
ruled through their officers, not living there
themselves. Christianity was introduced
during this period, monasteries were found-
ed, and dukes and counts were appointed
viceregents of the Frankish kings. After the
dissolution of the Frankish empire, the eas-
tern part of Switzerland was united with the
Duchy of Swabia, and the western part with
the kingdom of Burgundy. In 1032 the
German Emperors, on the downfall of Bur-
gundy, took possession of the country, gov-
erning it by their viceregents the dukes of
Zahringen. Great enmity existed between
them and the nobles of the fallen kingdom,
and they favored the inhabitants of the
towns, and themselves became the founders
of the new towns, Friburg, Bern, and Burg-
dorf. When the power of the emperors de-
clined, the nobles became ambitious of in-
dependence and filled their own coffers at
the expense of their neighbors. The country
people and those of the Swiss towns, to-
gether with the serfs, for protection entered
into treaties with the feudal lords of the soil.
At this time the inhabitants of Zurich placed
themselves under the protection of the then,
unimportant counts of Hapsburg, with whom
the “Three Cantons” of Uri, Schwyz, and
Unterwalden were previously allied. To Uri
and Schwyz letters of independence were
granted in 1231, 1240 by Emperor Frederick

[Column 3]
II. After Count Rudolph of Hapsburg be-
came emperor, he confirmed the independ-
ence of Uri, in 1274 but Schwyz and Unter-
walden continued subject to the Hapsburg
supremacy. In 1291, after the emperor’s
death, the Forest Cantons formed their first
league for their mutual safety and protec-
tion against the growing power of the House
of Hapsburg. Albert, Rudolph’s son, en-
deavored to make absolute his sovereignty
in these provinces, with the result that they
embraced the cause of the rival monarch;
they however were defeated by Albert, who
seems to have modified his treatment of
them. This was the period, to which belongs
the tradition of William Tell of which na-
tional hero no historic foundation is found in
the early histories.
	Albert was assassinated by John of Swabia
in 1308. The Hapsburgers were also op-
posed by Emperor Henry VII who conferred
a charter of independence on the Forest
Cantons. This was bitterly resented by the
House of Hapsburg, who sent a powerful
army against these Cantons, as they, after
the death of Henry had declared their ad-
herence to Louis of Bavaria, who opposed
Frederick the Handsome. At Morgarten this
army was destroyed in 1315. Later several
victories were won by the Swiss, which
caused the downfall of the proud Hapsburg
House. In an attempt to conquer Bern,
the Hungarian nobles were defeated. In
1354, eight independent districts formed a
confederacy which soon became powerful
enough to assume the offensive finally cor-
recting the hereditary domain of Hapsburg
from the dukes of Austria.
	In 1476 a decisive victory was won by the
Swiss, followed by another triumph in the
victory of Dornach. The Swiss independence
was formally recognized at this time, but
nominally they were attached to the empire
until 1648.
	Under the auspices of Zwingli the Refor-
mation was zealously embraced by a large
proportion of the Swiss people. Civil wars
followed on account of jealousies between
the Roman Catholic and reformed Cantons.
Disastrous and bloody conflicts followed.
By many individuals the invasion of the
French was resisted, but the vigor of the
nation was gone, and the Helvetian Republic
was founded on the ruins of the liberties of
the people.
	In 1803 Napoleon restored the cantonal
system, but the constitution was remodelled
in 1815, by resolutions passed by the Con-
gress of Vienna. A new federal constitution
was inaugurated September 12th, 1848,
since which time, tranquility, prosperity and
harmony have reigned.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


Ellen Key, the Swedish writer, author of
“The Century of the Child,” “Love and
Marriage,” etc., is one of the most discussed
women in Europe. Her “Century of the
Child” has gone through more than twenty
editions in Germany, and is still being read
thoughtfully by those interested in the train-
ing and education of children. This “mo-
dern apostle” was born amid the pine for-
ests of Sweden and brought up to read a few
books by the best writers, philosophers and
thinkers. When she was 19 her father was
elected to the Swedish Parliament and made
her his secretary. In the capacity she came
in contact with men of prominence, with
whom she discussed the questions of the
day.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00 one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50 per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	JUNE, 1909.


[Column 1]
A GREAT DAY FOR OLD PEOPLE.
	A wonderful day for elderly people was
planned by the “Old Folks Committee” for
the 29th day of June this year. The arrange-
ment was to entertain those over seventy
years of age North of Salt Lake as far as
Brigham City and South to Payson. From
this distance with the aged citizens of Salt
Lake City it made an immense crowd. It is
estimated there were 4,000 or more on the
Temple square, in the Tabernacle grounds,
and they certainly were royally entertained.
Every detail of the plan was carefully
thought out by the Central Committee, Pre-
siding Bishop C. W. Nibley in charge, and
the Ladies Entertainment Committee for
guests of honor were under the direction of
Mrs. Rebecca Nibley, the Bishop’s wife.
	The Relief Society Presidents of the four
Stakes of Zion in the City limits, took charge
of a certain number besides their own aged
ones in the matter of luncheon, and they
spared no pains or expense; everything in
the way of variety, all the delicacies of
the season were provided for the comfort,
pleasure and refreshment of the brethren and
sisters, who came from a distance as well as
those who live here.
	The Bishops of the several wards rendered
valuable assistance to the Relief Society, and
the young women and girls waited at tables,
and did all that was possible to gratify and
please the visitors, those venerable fathers
and mothers; and it is always a joy and
delight to minister to those who have toiled
so many long years, assuredly they deserve
consideration from the young and strong.
	The Tabernacle grounds were pleasant
and well shaded by the trees, and presented
a very beautiful picture, and the enjoyment
of old acquaintances in meeting was gratify-
ing and to witness these things would com-
pensate for any extra pains taken by the
Committee. The smiling countenances of
many of them as they greeted old friends
were something of a study.
	The services in the large tabernacle were
very interesting, and the music on the
grounds and elsewhere was of the very best.
The organ of course gave great delight to
music lovers, and the services were not long
enough to be tiresome. There were no dis-
turbances and no accidents to mar the day’s
pleasure.
	The railroad officials gave free transporta-
tion to the elderly people to and from the 
City and the street car company and auto-
mobiles and carriages were also at their dis-

[Column 2]
posal free of charge, and nothing was left
undone that would give added pleasure.
	Governor Spry and Mayor Bransford wel-
comed the visitors in the most gracious way
with public addresses in the Tabernacle, and
all who sang or who spoke were most kind
and considerate and lovely, but it was very
apparent that the congregation inside the
Tabernacle were specially gratified by the
address of President Joseph F. Smtth.
	It was quite evident that Brother C. R.
Savage was greatly missed, he was really the
“jolly old soul” who always knew just what
would be the fitting pastime of these unique
occasions.
	The flowers were profuse and beautiful
and there was no lack of courtesy and glad
welcomes all around.
	It was a most fitting celebration and all
who participated in any way, or who gave of
their means must feel they were honored in
bestowing honors on those worthy veterans
of the former days. No welcome that could
be extended is too much, or too good for
these blessed veterans who have grown grey
and feeble in the master’s service as most of
those who assemble on these annual oc-
casions have; many of them have left their
own dear native land for the Gospel’s sake,
and endured hardship and privation on sea
and land, yet continued faithful and true.
	Looking over an assembly of this kind
composed almost entirely of aged and some
infirm people is pathetic to say the least;
and to all who contribute to these entertain-
ments with means or by other service there
must be a sort of recompense in knowing
they have helped to make one day happier
and sweeter to those whose lives are nearing
the other shore.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.
		HANNAH C. WELLS.
	A small company of the relatives and
friends of Sister Hannah Wells met at her
residence in the 18th Ward in this city, on
Wednesday, June 9, by invitation of the
hostess to do honor to the lady on her 80th
birthday anniversary. There were present
President Joseph F. Smith and wife, Apostle
H. J. Grant and wife, Apostle Orson F.
Whitney and wife. Dr. Seymour B. Young
and Rulon S. Wells and wife of the quorum
of Seventy and most of the older members
of the Wells’ family and several of the younger
ones.
	Elder Junius F. Wells read a sketch of his
mother’s life giving many interesting inci-
dents, that were quite new to most of the
family; and giving also the information of
six generations of the Free family and de-
scendants in the Church, beginning with
Andrew Free who joined the Church in early
days and went up to Missouri and his son
Absalom Free, father of Hannah Free Wells,
and her son Junius Wells and his son Hugo
Wells and Hugo’s son Edward Wells, mak-
ing six generations in the Church, which is
rather unusual, in fact we do not recall any
instance of the kind though there may be a
number of them. Sister Hannah Wells spoke
briefly and as usual with her native humor,
which is quite natural in the “Free Family.”
	President Joseph F. Smith spoke feelingly
of the sketch of Sister Wells life written by
her son Junius for this special occasion, and
alluded to his own mother’s experiences
(Sister Mary Fielding Smith) that had been
recalled by hearing the incidents just read;
his remarks were appropriate and suggestive,


and it was a great pleasure to have him
present on this delightful occasion.
	Of Sister Wells own family, from the large
family of Absalom and Betsy Free her father 
and mother only Preston Free, Hannah C.
and Talitha Smith remain. Hiram S. Young
and Alonzo Young and wife, and nearly all
the Wells sons and daughters were present
to do honor to their Aunt Hannah on her
birthday anniversary.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith was a
special guest and the remaining wives of
General D. H. Wells were of the party Lydia
Ann, Susan H. and Emmeline B. Some
verses by Aunt Emm. Wells had been writ-
ten which she read, touched upon a rather
remarkable incident of Sister Hannah Wells
life, contained in the sketch read by Junius,
when as a child in a meeting of Latter-day
Saints she had the courage to offer herself
for baptism, though none of the older people
assembled there had opened the way, but
after the little child had been as it were in-
spired to lead them, the others followed her
example, this took place in Belleville, Illi- 
nois, in the year 1841.
	The daintiest refreshments were served to
the guests by some of the preety grand-
daughters of General Wells, and social con-
versation indulged in for a short time.
	It was a very enjoyable party and will be
always remembered by the younger members
of the family who were present when the re-
maining few of the “Aunties” have passed
to the other side.


LIFE’S MILESTONES.
TO HANNAH C. WELLS ON HER EIGHTIETH
	BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY, JUNE 9, 4909.
		“And a little child shall lead them.”
Today you pass a milestone on life’s way,
A golden one, so some wise-acres say,
And golden, too, we think that it should be:
For fourscore years, if one has lived so long,
Deserves to be proclaimed in verse and song,
And tribute paid in golden melody.
And you were born in June, the month of flow-
	ers,
The time of sunshine, and of golden hours;
Most fortunate has been your destiny.
They say ’tis lucky to be born in June,
For nature then with life is most in tune,
The adage is not myth or mystery
E’en as a child you knew the Shepherd’s voice,
The call met the approval of your choice—
You gave your hand glad tidings to obey,
Leading the others, who with one accord,
Declared their willingness to serve the Lord,
When little Hannah chose the better way.
And ever since that far-off, blessed time,
When you had listened to those words sublime
In the sweet innocence of youth,
And to the water’s edge for baptism went,
Surely an angel was from heaven sent
To guide your footsteps in the way of truth.
All thro’ the years of trial since that day,
However dark or dreary seemed the way,
You’ve bravely borne your part and stood the
	test,
And shared the joys of life’s true happiness,
And known the grace of sweetest tenderness,
With kindred souls, the choicest and the best.
And so we must in very truth declare,
No matter what we’re called upon to bear,
That golden opportunities are ours;
E’en though times scythe has snatched some
	friends away.
Whom we wonld gladly have with us today;
Yet we’ve been blest with many golden hours.
Let us acknowledge, then, assembled here,
In this grand company with right good cheer,
Blessings vouchsafed to us in youth and age,
Grateful to God our voices let us raise,
In song or prayer, giving His name the praise,
And turn lifs’s tablets to the golden page.
				EMMELINE B. WELLS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
		EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth and four of
her lovely daughters left Salt Lake City, ac-
companied by her husband, P. T Farns-
worth, Esq., for an extended trip abroad.
It will be a delightful change for her and
for the young ladies, who are all just out of
school, or college, some of them with sig-
nificant titles, B. S. and B. A. and so on.
They sailed from Montreal, after traveling over
the delightful Canadian country. We shall
miss Mrs. Farnsworth very much, because
she was such an active member of our Gen-
eral Relief Society and was always ready
and willing to do and to go whenever and
wherever duty called. We wish them a de-
lightful trip over the ocean and through
European cities and visiting historic scenes
and countries, and a safe return to their
beautiful home in this city.

	On the 10th of June the anniversary meet-
ing for the election of officers of the Utah
State Society Daughters of the Revolution was
held in the Woman’s Exponent office Tem-
pleton Building, the Regent, Mrs. Elizabeth
R. Wright, in the chair. Reports of retir-
ing officers of the year just closed were
given, showing some advancement had been
made and in social events quite enjoyable.
One regretable circumstance had taken
place, viz. the death of a valued member,
Mrs. Eliza Titcomb of this city; whose
demise while sojourning temporarily in
Southern California, had taken place. Mrs,
Titcomb had endeared herself to all the
Daughters of the Society, because of her
gentleness and sociability, although she came
among them a stranger from the East. The
newly elected officers are Mrs. Alice Merrill
Horne, Regent, Mrs. Emily H. C.Willey First
Vice Regent, Mrs. Julia F. Lund, Second Vice
Regent, Mrs. Clarice Y. Spencer Recording
Secretary, Mrs. Ella W. Hyde Cor.
Sec. Mrs. Mary E. R. Webber Treas-
urer, Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth
Historian, Mrs Lucy W. Smith Registrar,
Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall Chaplain. The
Society will meet for tbe term, September
16, 1909.

	A very delightful party was given by the
eldest daughter of Mrs. Catherine Brock-
bank to a few of her mother’s old friends
on the anniversary of her birthday at
the old home of the family in this city.
Mrs. Brockbank wore her wedding gown of
long ago and gave us some of the interest-
ing details of the event. There were some
of the dear old friends of her girlhood in-
vited. Miss Elizabeth Brockbank, the eld-
est daughter had not informed her mother
of this party until the time arrived, but
everything worked like a charm. Reminis-
cences of girlhood days were very entertain-
ing; when old friends meet the hours fly
quickly. Among the company were Sisters
Amelia McDonald Mary P. Young, Phyllis
H. Ferguson, Kate Johnson, Aunt Emm.
Wells, Emma S. Woodruff and others.

	Mrs. T. G. Webber gave a party for her
mother, Mrs. Charlotte F. Richards on the
afternoon of Saturday, May 12, 1909, at her
elegant home in this city. The guests were
dear old friends of her mother’s and they
were most delightfully entertained. Every-
thing that the hostess, Mrs. Webber, could
devise was done that her mother might en-
joy the companionship of those she had
known familiarly in the early days in the
valley, and some of the friends of her girl-
hood in dear old England had been bidden

[Column 2]
to the feast. Words cannot express the
pleasure it gives one advanced in years to
meet with those whom they have been
strongly attached to when the hearts were
young and spirits buoyant. The tables were
a picture with snowy linen, vases of delicate
flowers, and all the dainty china, cut glass,
and elegant silver, as well as the most appe-
tizing viands of great variety. At the head
of the table sat the lady in whose honor the
feast was given, next her Mrs. Samuel Rich-
ards and Mrs. Nannah Richards on the
other side, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, Mrs.
E. B. Wells, Mrs. Hannah C. Wells, and so
on. Other tables were filled with charming
women and lively conversation was kept up
—after retiring to the parlor, some lady
gave us music, and a few of these dear old
friends danced a little to the music as in the
days when they were young. Mrs. Webber
certainly gave her mother’s old friends a
great pleasure bringing those ladies together
who some of them had not seen each other
for years.

	Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry and Mrs. Emily
S. Richards left for Buffalo early this month
to attend the conference of Charities and
Corrections where Mrs. Dusenberry had been
scheduled for an address and appointed by
the Governor of Utah. From there they
went to Toronto to attend the International
Quinquennial Council and Congress, of
which so much has been said in the daily
papers. This International Quinquennial
was held in Berlin in 1904, when several of our
sisters went across to Germany and attended
its sessions. July 16, some of the leading
ladies of the International Council are ex-
pected to stop over a few hours in this city
en route from Seattle to the East, after
calling here, they will visit Denver and
Colorado Springs, Detroit and Chicago on
their way.


[Column 1]
REPORT OF THE NATIONAL WOMAN’S
		RELIEF SOCIETY.
To the Executive Session of the National
Council of Women of the U. S. held in
	Union City, Indiana, 1908.
Madam President and Dear Friends:—
	It is two years last April since we made a
report of this Society to the Council. We re-
gret that we were not able to take part in
the Executive Session at Jamestown. Never-
theless we do feel that the Council has been
in the past a very great incentive, and bene-
fit to all who have allied themselves with
this magnificent organization in which we
take a deep interest.
	We rejoice in the great work undertaken
by the noble women, who have participated
therein, and feel they are in the largest sense
benefactors of humanity.
	When the San Francisco disaster occurred,
soon after the Executive Session of the Council
in Toledo, Ohio, and in which our beloved
President, Mrs. Mary Wood Swift, met with
such an irreparable loss, (which we all sin-
cerely deplored, and deeply sympathized
with her and all who suffered), the officers
of our Society called a meeting at the head-
quarters and appointed a Committee at
large, and the same day the Relief work pro-
gressed so rapidly that on the same night
after the appointment, a car having been
put at the disposal of said Committee was
loaded with the necessary articles of food
and clothing and bedding, etc. for imme-
diate relief, and sent to the Red Cross Com-
mittee in San Francisco; and a telegram

[Column 2]
dispatched to the Mayor of the City appris-
ing him of the coming car with full particu-
lars; and our President received a letter of
acknowledgment from the Mayor himself. A
car load of flour was also sent soon after
from the Relief Society organisation of Bing-
ham County, Idaho. Donations were made
at different times later on by the Society
until there was no further need of help.
	When the famine occurred in China and a
call was made public, the National Woman’s
Relief Society in Conference assembled pas-
sed a resolution to send a car load of flour,
which was soon forwarded and word came to
the Governor of the State that it had been
received.
	Thus you will perceive our storing of grain
has been available for charity outside our
own locality, and domain.
	At the time of the great International
Woman Suffrage Conference in Amsterdam,
Holland, last June, a member of our Board
of Directors of the N. W. R. S., Dr. Romania
B. Penrose was appointed by the Governor
of Utah to speak upon Woman Suffrage in
Utah at the great Convention in Amsterdam,
which we very much appreciated and which
appointment the women of Holland seemed
to think a great honor. Dr. Penrose made
a telling address, which was received with
enthusiasm by the assembly, and was warm-
ly applauded. Our Society was desirous of
having a representative in Geneva, Switzer-
land, at the meeting there in October of that
year. We expected Mrs. Emily S. Richards,
who was traveling in Europe at that time
would attend that Council meeting, but she
failed to be there at the right time, which
we regretted very much.
	Aside from these important things our So-
ciety has been doing regular duty in all its
departments and in all localities and coun-
tries throughout the world where there are
branches established auxiliary to the General
Society.
	All the early members of the National
Council of Women know much of our Soci-
ety, its thorough organization and its careful
equipment for active service, also its aims
and aspirations. It is based upon the broad-
est fundamental principles of charity, bene-
volence and philanthropy, but it also inclu-
des in its curriculum, if one may use the
term, education in every line possible to be
undertaken outside of schools and colleges,
for the uplifting of womanhood and the rear-
ing of children.
	The N. C. W., through former reports
made to the Council, is aware of the depart-
ment of the School of Nurses, under the au-
spices of the Society, with competent women
physicians in charge, through which we are
able to get much charity service done as
practical training and giving the girls ex-
perience, which is helpful in our Society
work among the needy, and is of immense
benefit to the young women themselves, and
gives them a better and more systematic
preparation for wifehood and motherhood,
which are the greatest sciences of life for all
women, if they are to follow the first com-
mandment given in the Holy Scriptures,
viz: “Be fruitful and multiply and replenish
the earth and subdue it.”
	Along this line too is our Mother’s work,
which was clearly explained in our last re-
port, and is published in the Council Report
of Proceedings in 1906; since then the work
has developed and extended and become a
great blessing and help to mothers in their
home life, especially those who have not
had the advantages of schools and college
training, and whose days have been spent


in domestic employment in secluded places.
	More houses for meetings of our Society,
and granaries for care of wheat, etc., have
been built through efforts af the women of
these organizations in their respective locali-
ties, and libraries in the halls, and in some
instances help rendered to those who have
suffered from loss by fire, as well as other
misfortunes. In one instance in this city
a widow with several children dependent upon
her, had her home and household goods
burned. The Relief Society in that locality
raised the money to pay for one half of the
new building, and to make good the furn-
ture, etc.
	Some years ago the N. W. R. S. and the
Y. L. N. M. I. A. began collecting money
for an appropriate and commodious Woman’s
Building; it is now in course of erection on
Main Street, exactly opposite the Salt Lake
Temple, and it is expected the edifice will
be completed, ready for dedication and sub-
sequently for use very soon.
	Another pleasing feature we are glad to
mention is that one of our young men here
in Utah, who has studied abroad, has been
employed to paint for the Society a large
and magnificent portrait of our General Pre-
sident, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, and of
the General Secretary, Mrs. Emmeline B.
Wells, and of Mrs. Jane S. Richards, first
Vice President of our Society for thirteen
years with Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Presi-
dent. Mrs. Richards is well known to the
Council through attending the Triennials of
the Council and Executive sessions, and also
the Congress of Representative Women held
in connection with the Columbian Exposition
in 1893.
	In closing we must record the death while
in active service for the Society, on a mis-
sion of importance some distance away, of
one of our Board of Directors, Mrs. Elizabeth
J. Stevenson. It may truthfully be said of
her, she was diligent in season and out of
season, untiring in activity, wise in counsel,
and full of devotion to God, her religion and
her adopted country, (for she was born in
the Isle of Jersey, but came to America and
to Utah when a young girl in her teens).
She was an earnest and zealous advocate of
equal suffrage, and stood firm for the best
and highest education for all. Though we
mourn the loss of friends and comrades, we
are fully assured that Mrs. Stevenson has
gone to her rest and her reward is sure.
	Our Delegate, who is also Proxy for the
President, will be able to make any explana-
tion that may be required concerning our
Society, of which we are so justly proud, and
we bid the Council God speed in their good
work, the best interests of all concerned.
	With greetings from the President and of-
ficers of the National Woman’s Relief So-
ciety,
			Respectfully submitted
				EMMELINE B. WELLS,
					General Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	REORGANIZATION AND PARTY.
	On the 6th of February, 1909, the Relief
Society of Newton Ward, in Benson Stake
was reorganized. Sister Martha Beck, who
had been President, for over twenty years.
resigned, feeling that her age, cares and
duties were too much together with the Re-
lief Society.
	Sister Bessie Ballard was chosen as Presi-
dent, with Sister Hannah Hansen 1st and
Mary Dowdle 2nd Counselors, with Eliza-
beth Funk retained as Secretary, and Mary
Jenkins retained as Treasurer.

[Column 2]
	On March 17, 1909, the Relief Society
held its reunion and in connection a sur-
prise on our retiring president, Sister Beck,
Secretary Elizabeth Funk and Treasurer
Mary Jenkins.
	At eleven o’clock the ward meeting house
was filled with brethren and sisters. During
meeting a program was rendered, after
which Sister Beck was presented with a
lovely, upholstered leather rocker. Sister
Funk a gold watch and chain, and Sister
Jenkins with a dainty silver tea set.
	To say that the sisters were surprised is
putting it mildly.
	The presentation speech was made by Sis-
ter Dowdle, which we will include here to
show the esteem in which our sisters are
held.
	Sister Beck, we the members of the New-
ton Relief Society have met today to show
our appreciation to you as a retiring officer.
You have battled the waves for twenty
years or more, and through your diligent
work, your faith and courage, we have
learned to love, honor and respect you; as
the years have passed the ties of friendship
have grown stronger. Your life has been to
us worthy of emulation, your name will
ever be revered among the sisters of the
Newton ward, for the wise counsel, the ten-
der ministrations to the sick, the words of
comfort and consolation among the needy.
	In years to come wherever your lot may
be cast, we all desire and crave a link in
your already long chain of friendship, and
ask heaven’s choicest blessings upon you,
that your friends may increase and that you
may want for nothing,
	Sister Beck in behalf of the Newton Re-
lief Society, I present to you this chair.
Take it and use it, and be as happy as your
days will allow, and as the days come and
go and you sit rocking in the twilight think-
ing of the days that are, and the days that
were, let them be seasoned with thoughts
of the givers.
	Be assured that we will be ready at any
moment, either as a body or as individ-
uals to come at your call.
	Sister Funk and Sister Jenkins, we are not
prepared to have you sit in rockers at the
present time, although you have worked to-
gether with Sister Beck the same number
of years, we feel that your help in the Relief
Society is too valuable to dispense with.
But we desire to present to you a small
memento for your faithfulness in the past,
and ask that you do not measure our love
for you and your service by the cost of the
presents, but accept them as a part of our
appreciation for your service, and ask that
you think of us as your friends and co-work-
ers in this association.
	After the program had been rendered a
dainty lunch was served, after which games
and visiting was enjoyed till evening. The
days’ enjoyment was finished in the evening
by a dance for all married people.
				M. S. DOWDLE.


JUNE CONFERENCES AND REUNIONS.
	The Annual June Conference of the Y.
L. & Y. M. Associations is always an occa-
sion of special interest and calls for not
only the conferences held separately and
unitedly, but many visitors from the Stakes
of Zion both those near to Salt Lake City
and quite remote in other states and terri-
tories and some from cities in the East and
West as well. It is a beautiful time of year
for enjoyment, and this June there were so
many things planned for the enjoyment of


the young people that it is quite impossible
to mention all. The reunion at Granite
Stake Tabernacle was one of the largest so-
cial gatherings and was very delightful.
One could meet there old friends from far
away, and the atmosphere and spirit of the
gathering must certainly exert an influence
with those workers in this grand undertak-
ing that will permeate the hearts of all who
had the opportunity of attending, and will
we hope and trust reach the homes of the
members who are a long distance away that
they, too, may partake in a measure of the
genuine spirit of social uplifting, that will be
vastly helpful in the Herculean work that is
being done among the youth of Zion. To
those who witnessed the beginning of this
seed planted by President Brigham Young
nearly forty years ago now, it is something
marvelous how it has spread and what its
fruits have been. Would it could reach all
the sons and daughters of Zion.
	The General President and officers of the
Primary Associations held annual Confer-
ence about the same time of year, and this
year seems to have been the banner confer-
ence of this wonderful organization. The
systematic way in which the Primary plans
and carries on the work among the children
is truly delightful. In addition to the meet-
ings, the Presidency had a reunion in Whit-
ney Hall, and the workers from long dis-
tances were entertained with fine music and
games of various kinds in which they them-
selves took part, and they were honored by
the presence of President Joseph F. Smith
and President John R. Winder and some of
the Apostles, who seemed to enjoy the diver-
sion of Kindergarten games and guesses as
much as those who engaged in them. The
president, Sister Louie Felt, who was chosen in
June, 1880, has certainly displayed remarkable
talent in carrying on so great a work suc-
cessfully,  She has able assistants, certainly
but her impressive presence and her dignity
of demeanor is an inspirafion to her able
corps of workers all throughout the land of
Zion. The name of Louie B. Felt and of
Aurelia S. Rogers (who first originated the
idea of this now mammoth organization) will
be engraven in the annals of Church history
and cherished forever throughout Latter-day
Israel.					EDITOR.


TWO SECRETARYSHIPS TO BE FILLED.
	Miss Kate N. Gordon asks us to announce
that she will not be a candidate for re-elec-
tion as corresponding secretary of the Na-
tional American Suffrage Association at the
coming National Convention in Seattle. Her
local work in New Orleans is constantly
making greater demands upon her, and she
feels that she can no longergive the needed
amount of time and strength to the national
correspoding secretaryship. This will be
much regretted; but Miss Gordon gives us
to understand that her decision is final.
	Miss Alice Stone Blackwell also gives no-
tice that she will not stand for re-election as
recording secretary.				Ex.

	Harvard has always thought it beneath its
dignity to confer a degree on any woman,
no matter how distinguished. Brown has
already honored four women in this way.
Sarah Elizabeth Doyle was given the degree
of A. M. in 1894; Julia Josephine Irvine,
president of Wellesley College, was made a
Litt. D. in 1895; Adelia Thompson Hillman
was giyen an A. M. in 1898, and Caroline
Hazard, president of Wellesley, was made a
Litt. D. in 1899.—Ex.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS OF APPRECIA TION.
	Whereas our former president and fellow work-
er, Sister Melissa Olson, has moved from our com-
munity, and
	Whereas, circumstances have arisen which nec-
essitate her absence from us for an indefinite per-
iod, and
	Whereas she has seen fit to resign her position
as president, and
	Whereas, she has always been a diligent and
faithful worker, it is fitting that we, the members
of the Relief Society of Fillmore, record our ap-
preciatioa of her work among us. Therefore, be
it
	Resolved, that we tender her a vote of thanks
for her labor among us, and be it further
	Resolved, that by purity of life and conversa-
tion, by kindness of spirit and grace of conduct,
by patience and fidelity in the discharge of her
duties she has inspired nobler views and has won
the love and confidence of her associates who will
follow her with their earnest prayers in her new
field of labor.
	Committee: Clara M. Swallow, Hattie Robinson,
Julia Day, Hattie Partridge.


IN MEMORIAM.
	Expressions of love and respect to the memory
of Sister Martha M. Miller who departed this life
April 26, 1909.
	Resolved, that we mourn her as a faithful work-
er, a devoted mother and wife, a true Latter-day
Saint.
	That we the Granite Stake Relief Society extend
our heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved husband,
family and friends and pray God that his com
forting influence may be with them.
	Resolved that we send a copy of this memento
to the bereaved family and one to the Woman’s
Exponent for publication.
			LYDIA A. THATCHER.
	We the sisters of the Granite Stake Relief Soci-
ety have been bereft of our beloved and ever faith-
ful coworker.
	Dear Sister Lydia A. Thatcher departed this
life June 9, 1909.
	In commemoration of her good words, pure and
humble life, we pray that our Heavenly Father
will bless and comfort with His Holy Spirit her
bereaved family in their sorrow and help them
and us to emulate her worthy example.
	Through our heartfelt love for our dear sister we
resolve to present a copy of this memoriam to the
family of the deceased and send one to the Ex-
ponent for publication.
	“Tried in the furnace of this troubled life
	Faithful as daughter, mother, woman, wife,
	Crowned with celestial glory thou shalt shine
	’Mid souls immortal, endless and divine.”
				EMMA S. WOODRUFF,
				MARY P. YGUNG,
				KATHERINE H. BROCKBANK,
					Stake Presidency R. S.


OBITUARY.
	In memory of our beloved Sister Nancy Follie,
who departed this life on May 19th, 1909 of heart
failure at the age of 71 years.
	She has been a faithful and loving member in
our Relief Society, and for many years has been
our treasurer, which office she has filled with great
honor.
	To know her was to love her and she is greatly
mourned by all her sisters of the Relief Society.
	The following resolutions were received and
adopted by the Dingle Relief Society.
			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas, Our heavenly Father in his infinite
wisdom has seen fit to call from our midst our
much esteemed and beloved Sister Naney Follie,
who departed this life May 19th, 1909 at Dingle,
Idaho
	And whereas our intimate association with her
in the performance of her duties as a treasurer in
the Society of the Dingle ward has so endeared her
to us that we feel it necessary and befitting to ex-
press our appreciations of her labors in our So-
ciety and of her earnest endeavors to do right! Of
her sterling integrity and faithfulness in the gospel,
in which she was an earnest worker, always ready
to perform any duties assigned her no matter
what the call might be.
	Sister Naney could always be relied upon.
	She was a faithful and loving helpmate to her
husband and a kind and affectionate mother to
her children.
	Be it resolved, that we, the sisters of the Relief


Society do most deeply mourn the loss of so faith-
ful a sister and feel it is hard to become reconciled
to her death. But are willing to acknowledge the
hand of the Lord in all things.
	Be it resolved, that we extend our heart
felt sympathy to her husband and children and
ask the Lord to bless them and cause them to
know he is their friend, also that he will comfort
their hearts in this hour of their trouble and sor-
row.
	Re it further resolved that these resolutions be
entered in the minutes of our Relief Society. A
copy be given to the bereaved family of the de-
ceased and a copy sent to the Woman’s Exponent.
				Elizabeth Cook,
				Rose Sparks,
				Tryphena L. Davis,
					Committee of Resolutions.
	Dingle, Idaho.


R. S. REPORTS.
			UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the regular 48th Quarterly Con-
ference of the Relief Society of Uintah Stake
held at Jensen ward house June 13, 1909,
beginning at 2 p. m.
	There were on the stand Elder Don B.
Colton of the Stake Presidency and other
brethren, also a goodly number of Relief
Society officers, President Nancy A. Colton
presiding. After opening exercises the sac-
rament was administered. Roll called 8
stake and 19 ward officers present. Mrs.
Nancy A. Colton felt to welcome all present
and was pleased to see so many, thought in
holding conference Sunday afternoons that
we would have more of the brethren present
She gave the sisters counsel in regard to
their duties, spoke against slander, said if
we have the Spirit of the Lord it will guide
us aright.
	Song from Naples Ward by a group of Re-
lief Society workers.
	Lecture by Mrs. Mary Gehran, entitled
“Moderation, Extremes, Self-restraint,
Amusements, Diversions, Excursions, So-
cial Gatherings, Late hours, Reading, Dress,
Parents.”
	Song from Jensen ward by a group of
young girls, entilted “The Daughters of
Zion.”
	Mrs. E. J. Stewart from Utah county,
spoke of the scenery along the road to Jen-
sen, how beautiful it was. Said in Genesis
we read where God made man in his own
image and also spoke of the spirit before it
entered the body, spoke of the time that the
Prophet Joseph Smith turned the key of
knowledge and what a blessing it had
been for women. Spoke against race
suicide and in favor of the Word of Wisdom
and what a blessing it would bring to us
if we would only obey it. The women of
the Relief Society should work together to
put down evil.
	Elder Don B. Colton, one of the stake
presidency, always made it a point to try
and visit Relief Society conference, gave an
excuse for President Smart not being pres-
ent, spoke of the home and the boys’ and
girls characters being built at home, of the
Church schools and the work we have to do
in rearing this great multitude of children.
Made estimate of the money that was spent
to keep up the navy and the money that was
spent to educate the children. Spoke of
the restoration of the Gospel and the auxi-
liary organizations of the Church. Alluded
to the academy building, that is to be built
in Uintah Stake in the near future. Recita-
tion from Jensen ward by Amber Timothy.
	Mrs. Mary H. Stringham spoke of what
a great blessing the Church schools are, also
made a few closing remarks, spoke of our
Stake annual conference to be held August


20. Thanked the sisters of Jensen for their
hospitality.
	Singing, after which conference ad-
journed for three months to be held in
Maeser, Benediction by Elder Andrew
Dudley,		PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Sec.


A SUCCESS IN NORWAY.
	Mrs. Gude, wife of the Minister from Nor-
way to the United States, before leaving
Washington for the summer gave an inter-
view to the correspondent of the Phila-
delphia Record. She said:
	“In Norway we boast of having the most
democratic constitution in the world, and
we have long been advocates of the simple
life. Our King and Queen mingle with ab-
solute freedom with the people, and the
segregation of classes is unknown. Prac-
tically we have no social unrest, and even
the women’s problem no longer vexes, since,
two years ago, the Parliamentary suffrage
was conferred on women. Municipal suf-
frage had been granted in 1901. It was
found that the experiment was eminently
successful, and that good resulted from giv-
ing women the right to vote on all that con-
cerned the welfare of their cities and town-
ships. When this was clearly demonstrated,
the Parliamentary suffrage was bestowed in
1907. The women have set to work very
earnestly to understand their civic obliga-
tions and to perform that highest duty in a
manner which will result for good to them-
selves and to their homes. An impetus has
been given to many projects which look to
improving conditions, especially in the rural
districts. In Norway, at least, women have
proved that to possess the ballot is to add
to their usefulness in the community.”
	Three-fifths of the women in Norway now
have the Parliamentary vote, and the Royal
Council has already recommended its exten-
sion to the remaining two-fifths.

	Mrs. Levisa C. Smith of Rochester, N. Y.,
who celebrated her 98th birthday on June 14,
has been identified with the great move-
ments of her time, particularly those per-
taining to tiie abolition of slavery, woman
suffrage and temperance reform. She was
an earnest co-laborer with the late Susan B.
Anthony, Mary Anthony, Amy Post, and
Lucy Stone. Mrs. Smith retains to a re-
markable degree all her faculties and three
years ago published a volume of her poems.
	At the Suffrage meeting in connection
with the International Council of Women,
Lady Aberdeen said:
	“I have never before spoken on the ques-
tion of suffrage for women chiefly because
my husband, the Earl of Aberdeen, Lord
Lieutenant of Ireland, occupies a high posi-
tion in public affairs, but after hearing what
has been said tonight before the audience
by women from every part of the world I
can no longer keep silent.”
	At the World’s Congress of Women at
Toronto Lady Aberdeen was re-elected pre-
sident; and her cousin, Mrs. Ogilvie Gordon,
from secretary to first vice-president of the
Congress. Besides Lady Aberdeen and Mrs.
Gordon, the officers elected on Saturday are:
Second vice-president, Countess Spallatti, of
Italy; third vice-president, Frau Heinisch,
of Belgium; corresponding secretary, Dr.
Alice Salomon, Germany; recording secre-
tary, Dr. Alexander Skoglumb, of Norway
treasurer, Mrs. W. E. Sanford, of Hamilon,
Ont.; honorary president, Mrs. May Wright
Sewall.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY SCHOOL OF
			NURSES.
	The Presidency and General Board of the
Relief Society announce that the next Relief
Society School of Nurses taught under their
direction will commence Monday, September
20, 1909, and continue eight months in Salt
Lake City- Dr. Margaret C. Roberts will be
the instructor. It is requested that the
Stake Presidents will at once consult with
their Ward Presidents for the purpose of se-
lecting intelligent, bright and energetic young
women of good moral character to take this
course in nursing.
	In recommending this course in nursing
given through the Relief Society, it should
be remembered that the students graduating
will have the privilege of paying for their
tuition with their work among the needy, and
should any of those coming from a distance
desire to gain some practical experience in
Salt Lake City before returning to their
homes, or at any time, the General Super-
intendent will take pleasure in helping them
to do so.
	The tuition for the course in nursing will
be $10.00 and it is expected that the Relief
Society organization in each Ward will pay
the tuition fee for their representative, al-
though any student who wishes to pay the
tuition herself may do so if willing to accept
and sign the Relief Society Nurse Contract
a copy of which follows:
			CONTRACT.
	In consideration of obtaining instruction
free in the Relief Society Nurse School, I
promise to answer all calls mads upon me
by the Superintendent of Relief Society
Nurses, or acting Superintendent where I
live, to give forty days charity nursing when-
ever required, and to nurse for whatever re-
muneration that may be designated by said
Superintendent, or acting Superintendent,
for the term of one year after graduation,
and I also agree to consult my Superinten-
dent in relation to all cases of nursing in
which I engage:
	Those who do not wish to sign this con-
tract may attend the school by paying the
regular fee of $50.00.
	Homes where the students may assist
with the work for their board and room, can
always be furnished with good Mormon fam-
ilies.
	We sincerely trust the members of the Re-
lief Society realize the value of this course
to young ladies as a part of their education.
	The cost of books will be $3.00 to $5.00.
For further particulars write to Mrs. Phebe
Y. Beatie; 55 North, West Temple Street,
Salt Lake City.
		BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, President,
		EMMELINE B. WELLS, Gen’l Sec’y.
PHEBE Y. BEATIE,
		Chairman R. S. School of Nurses.
EMMA A. EMPEY,
		Gen’l Supt. of Graduated Nurses.

[Column 2]
A MOTHER HONORED BY HER CHILDREN.
	The small, informal, select party given
in honor of Sister Johaanah N. Truelson by
her children, it seems to me might well be
mentioned in our WOMAN’S EXPONENT as
an example to other young people whose
attention may need to be drawn to the fact
that in honoring their parents they are ob-
serving one of the important command-
ments of God.
	It was on the evening of Friday, June 25,
1909, at Sister Truelson’s home in the 20th
Ward, Salt Lake City, and was arranged by
her two daughters, Mrs. Agnes T. Best and
Miss Marie Elvira Truelsen assisted by
others of the children and grandchildren. A
few choice friends met with the family at an
early hour, and the evening was very pleas-
antly spent, chiefly in social conversation.
Suitable refreshments were served, a lavish
supply of fine strawberries being furnished
by Brother Harold Best, son-in-law of the
honored guest of the evening, from his farm
at Mill Creek.
	A short program was rendered, consisting
of appropriate music, vocal and instru-
mental, and the reading of the following in-
teresting sketch, written for the occasion by
Miss “Vi” Truelson.	L. L. G. Richards.
	A DAUGHTER’S TRIBUTE.
	Johanna Norgren Truelson was born in
Sweden, March 14, 1842, being the second of
four children of Ole and Marie Norgren.
	It was in Norway that she received her
education, but later, as a young woman,
earned her living sewing in a tailor’s shop
in Gothenburg, Sweden. In this country
she first heard the Gospel as preached by
the Latter-day Saints. She read the Book
of Mormon with a sincere heart, and a great
desire to understand its truth, and the prom-
ise made by Moroni to all who read that
sacred book in that spirit was literally ful-
filled, for the truth of its teachings was
plainly manifest to the humble student.
	In September of 1863 she was baptized,
and about two years later left the scenes so
familiar to her and the friends of her youth
to immigrate to a strange land in the far-off
west, to her the land of Zion.
	The journey to Utah occupied altogether
six months, three months of which were
spent on the plains in company with about
four hundred Saints, with Brother Millen
Atwood as their leader.
	Volumes might be written of the experi-
ences of the Saints during those journeys;
of the difficulties they overcame; of their
sufferings and of their courage. Each com-
pany had its own peculiar trials to meet;
unwonted toils and weariness awaited these
pilgrims day after day, still they sang the
songs of Zion and looked forward to the
time when their weary feet would find a
resting place in the premised land.
	The company that Sister Truelson traveled
with met its full share of trouble and hard-
ship. More than a hundred graves were
made by the wayside leaving lonely and sor-
rowful hearts to still continue the journey.
One girl lost her mother and two sisters,
and, almost overcome with grief, finished

[Column 3]
the journey alone, as far as her own relatives
were concerned.
	One very peculiar circumstance occurred
that has left a vivid impression on the mem-
ory. A dissatisfied woman was in the com-
pany, and for some reason refused to walk
with the main body of immigrants, but in-
sisted upon always lagging some distance
behind. Her husband and others tried to
persuade her to walk up, pointing out to her
the danger she was in from the Indians.
	One day when the company made their
usual stop at noon, the Indians made an at-
tack upon them, trying to get some cattle,
and one Indian took this woman and rode
off with her. Several of the men were bad-
ly hurt by arrows in trying to rescue her,
but they were not successful, and she was
never heard of again.
	This same day Sister Truelson had taken
a pail and had gone some distance from the
camp to get water. On hearing cries she
looked up and saw Indians coming towards
her from every direction. She was so
frightened that for some seconds she could
not see or realize anything. On coming to
herself she found that the Indians had over-
looked her, and she made her way safely
back to camp, where she found her girl friend
weeping for her, thinking she had surely
been taken by the Indians.
	When Sister Trnelson and this friend ar-
rived in Zion they attended meeting, which
was held in the bowery. Their feelings
were overcome and they wept together for
joy and thankfulness at beholding the
Prophet of God—Brigham Young, whom
they had learned to know and love in their
native land.
	Sister Truelson soon obtained employment
with a tailor and afterwards was engaged
sewing in several large families of the Saints.
	On September 9, 1867, she was married
in the Endowment House, by Elder Heber
C. Kimball, to John Andrew Truelson, of
French descent, but a native of Sweden, who
had embraced the Gospel in Copenhagen,
and had taken much delight in laboring in
the Church there before coming to Utah,
part of his duty being that of leader of the
Copenhagen choir. Upon his arrival in
Utah he was successful in taking up mill-
ing. Sister Truelson and her husband spent
the greater part of their lives in Salt Lake
City, though for a few years they resided in
Idaho, where it was their great pleasure to
entertain at their home Sisters, Eliza R. Snow,
Emmeline B. Wells, and others, who fre-
quently visited that section of country.
	Sister Truelson is now in her sixty-seventh
year, a widow, and the mother of three sons
and two daughters. Her oldest son died in
1887, at the age of nineteen.
	Her ambition in life has been to rightly
understand the Gospel which she received
so gladly in her youth, and to live it day by
day, acting always the part of a true Saint
under all the circumstances which have sur-
rounded her. And her children can truly
testify to her unceasing devotion as a loving,
self-sacrificing mother. A pure and true ex-
ample has been before them, and they, above
all others, can rise up and call her blessed.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
						67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY		LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS	TRY US
					OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

