Vol. 38.						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH, 1910.						No. 8.


CONTENTS.
										PAGE
Extracts from a Foreign Letter.............................
.............................................Romania B. Penrose		57
Missionary Experience.................Lydia D. Alder		58
U. W. P. C. and Reapers Social on Wednes-
	day, February 23, 1910...........Ellis R. Shipp		59
Notes and News....................................................		59
Celebration of Annual Day...................................		62
Annual Day in Union, Oregon..............................		62
The Lamanite Remembered..................................		63
Autobiography............................Nancy M. Tracy		63
Relief Society Stake Reports:—Juab...................		62
	Uintah...........................................................		62
Editorial:—Seventeenth of March.......................		60
	Home Industry..............................................		60
	Editorial Notes..............................................		60
	Minutes of First Relief Society (from record)	61
	Public Reception...........................................		61
Poetry:—Never Borrow Worldly Sorrow..............
	.................................................Ellis R. Shipp		57
	Mary’s Bible....................................Millicent	57
Dedication of the House of the Lord.....................
	.................................................Emily Maeser	59
Our Pioneers.....................Hattie Critchlow Jensen	59


NEVER BORROW WORLDLY SORROW.
	Oft we mortals fret and worry
		O’er the minor ills of life,
	Live we in continued flurry,
		In a never-ending strife.

	Foes imagined mock and greet us,
		Every turn upon the road,
	Troubles more than half way meet us,
		Weighing down life’s heavy load.
	
	We are prone to think our burden
		Heavier than man e’er bore,
	Oft we fail to see the guerdon
		Coming through our open door.

	Ah, how weak to borrow trouble!—
		Better wait until it’s here;
	For to borrow makes it double,
		Triples every falling tear.

	For, perchance, the very sorrow
		We anticipate today,
	Will be changed to joy tomorrow,
		Clouds in sunshine melt away.

	Yes, through mists of pain and sadness,
		We may see unfailing light,
	Aye, tomorrow may bring gladness—
		Faith illumines darkest night.

	For the things which most distress us,
		Make our nightly pillow wet,
	Dreaded cares which most oppress us,
		Really haven’t happened yet.
					ELLIS R. SHIPP.


MARY’S BIBLE.
My sister brought me the Bible,
	She held it with tenderest care,
And said in low tones, “It was Mary’s,
	You’ll find her dear name written there.”

And I saw how the dear, loving fingers
	Seemed to cling to the volume so old;
With the name and mementoes within,
	That made it more precious than gold.

Today, when I took down the Bible,
	I turned to the name and the date,
Then the dew was still bright on life’s morning,
	Now, ah me! now the hour is late.

Ah, I know the dear home on the hill,
	Where she sat as she leaned o’er this page,
And traced the one name on its whiteness;
	That is dimmed now, and yellow with age.

And I seem to be gazing once more
	On the beautiful face of my sister;
For, perchance, I was standing near by,
	While the forest winds tenderly kissed her.

Let me draw back the veil of the years
	And recall the dear home scenes once more;
Though the trees of the forest are bare,
	And snow drifts lie deep at the door,


There is warmth and contentment within, 
	There is hope—there is love for each other; 
And brown eyes and blue turn with pride
	To our star, the fair face of my mother. 

Here, hid in the “Gospel of John,”
	I find a pressed spray of sweet clover, 
The white blossom faded and sere, 
	And I pause ere I turn the page over. 

Was I there when her white fingers plucked it? 
	Did it grow in some bright forest nook? 
Or in some sunny spot in the garden, 
	Was I there when ’Twas placed in the book? 

And here, in the sweet Psalms of David, 
	Is a book mark in letters or blue; 
A token of love wrought by “Hope,”
	In her youth time, so wondrous and new. 

The “Book of Life” little she dreamed 
	That her life’s book so seemingly fair, 
Would unfold many dark, tear stained pages, 
	Many leaves marred with struggle and care. 

O memory, how sadly you whisper,
	“These are only the phantoms of brightness 
Long past; let the veil fall again
	O’er the shrouded years, robed in youth’s white-
		ness.”

O my soul, look aloft from these tracings, 
	By a hand long since lifeless and cold; 
For in heaven the sweet name of “Mary,”
	Is written in letters of gold
							MILLICENT.


[Column 1]
EXTRACTS FROM A FOREIGN LETTER. 
	Presidents of missions, conferences and 
branches are acknowledged the great help 
and benefit the Relief Society is to the 
Priesthood and a good work is being done 
among the women also. They are learning
to work in organizations in harmony and 
with union and love one for another, and 
studying numerous subjects valuable to 
mothers. Immigration often almost breaks 
up a society; one has had to cease to be, be-
cause the few left lived so far apart that the 
meetings could not be kept up. Frequently 
reorganization takes place because the offi-
cers go to Zion. I am stirring them up by 
way of remembrance to be sure and keep 
our anniversary the 17th of March. We 
here in Liverpool give a concert and social 
on that day, and expect to have a good 
time. Will you or can you hold your Relief 
Society Conference in April in your own 
building? I believe that was the ambition
of the sisters, to have a room or hall where 
they could hold meetings as often and as 
long as they desired. I read of the grand 
reception tendered you by the R. S. Board 
in your new building. Also of the party 
held in honor of your birthday by the Press 
Club and of the pretty silk gown presented 
you. I also read with great terror of your 
sudden illness some time ago, but was 
greatly relieved when I read you had recov-
ered and was back in your office. I believe
you are the senior woman of the world who 
at your age attends her office and business.
You surely have broken the record and set 
an example to the rest of us. My great 
ambition is when I get home again to bury 
myself in the Temple and work for my dead!
On my father’s side very little has been
done.
	That will be a new atmosphere to this out 
here in the world. It is past comprehen-

[Column 2]
sion, mine, at least, how the people can be 
content with the silly, chaffy, positively 
nonsensical religions they follow here. 
Their depth of reasoning reaches no farther 
than their fathers before them, saying, “what
was good enough for my parents is good 
enough for me,” and take no further thought 
about it. But amidst all this apathy many 
honest hearted people are coming to a 
knowledge of the gospel and joining the 
Church. 
	It is an actual, positive truth that the 
Christians, so-called, worship an unknown 
God just as much as they did in Paul’s day,
and the only difference between them and 
the heathen is they have nothing in their
mind’s eye, while the heathen look upon a 
tangible idol. Oh! the work that will some-
time have to be done for the dead is appall-
ing to think of. It looks almost impossible 
to be accomplished. President Penrose had 
a letter from Susa Gates yesterday in which 
she gave us a real insight into President
Winder’s condition and we both felt very sad. 
*		*		*		*		*
I dread to think of floods that may possibly 
inundate the people on the west of Jordan, 
and of the city near it. They seem to be 
devastating everywhere. Some permanent 
way to carry off surplus water will have to 
be found or people will be discouraged from 
building up that part of the city. We have 
actually had four or five fine days consecu-
tively in March which is [-] very uncommon 
record for England. There is a great deal 
of rain, wind and fog here but with it all it 
is not nearly so cold as at home. But I 
miss the clear, bright, starlit nights, when 
the heavens are studded with brilliant stars. 
I scarcely ever can see a star here. We go 
to London again March 26th, and after the 
conference held there on the 27th, the next 
Sunday Pres. Penrose will go on to Norwich 
for conference there and I will remain in
London.
	On our way to the Nottingham conference 
this year, we started a day sooner and 
stopped off at Worksop, where friends joined 
us and we went to visit a very ancient and 
interesting town called Lincoln, where there 
is a very old and celebrated cathedral. In 
it is a very tiny “Imp,” carved on the top 
of one of the pillars, which has a legend at-
tached, of course, to account for its pres-
ence. A fine artist, a sculptor, has a beau-
tiful lady-love and he carves her sweet face 
on one of the stones at the top of one of the 
pillars; but a traitor rival convinces her that 
he did the work, and she is so flattered that 
she consents to marry him. The true lover 
in his jealous rage climbs up to the image, 
and with a few strokes of his chisel converts 
the face into a grinning imp with horns on 
its head. But, fortunately for the true lover, 
as the false one and bride were crossing a 
deep, swift stream on the way to the church 
to be wed, his horse loses its footing and 
he is drowned and of course the true lover
is on the bank witnessing the scene and 
dashes in and saves the lady, and they are
afterward happily married; but the grinning 
imp remains. 
	Now I must close or I will make my let-
ter too heavy. I hope you will write soon


and tell me all the news you can think of 
and especially of your own good health. 
Give my love to Annie and Belle and all my 
friends. I suppose you have not seen my 
new grandaughter—from her picture I call 
her a great beauty, but perhaps I am like 
the old owl thinking her nestlings are the 
most beautiful in the forest. I must write 
two more letters for this mail. Remember 
us especially to Sister Bathsheba and our 
wishes and prayers are for her welfare. Mr.
Penrose joins me in love to you, 
		Most Lovingly,
			ROMANIA B. PENROSE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	MISSIONARY EXPERIENCE.
	When in the missionary field I often said
to myself, when packing my grip, having
been transferred to another field of labor,
“O, I shall be glad when I pack my grip for
the last time; I am so tired of living in
grips!”
	The missionary thus about to migrate,
realizing he must now labor in pastures
new, feels to look back on what he knows
rather than to step into the future—the un-
known. But our abiding faith in God and
His work gives an assurance one otherwise
could not feel. In the world it is considered
to be a bad thing to be a Mormon man, but
to be a Mormon woman is much worse.
“Do you know you have Mormon women in
your house?” Thus is a landlady inter-
rogated, who lets you have a room, rents it
to you, a missionary of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, and then usual-
ly the trouble begins.
	The lady of the house finds no fault with
you. You are quiet, make no trouble, and
are very modest and retiring. This may
satisfy the landlady, but it does not disarm
the neighbor in the next house, or the
adjoining one, or some houses away, who
feels the menace your presence is in the
neighborhood. Your landlady may become
interested in you, she may love to converse
with you about life in the Western World,
of the people and customs there; and, if she
be a woman of strong character, she may
allow you to stay as long as you remain in
that field. But if she is easily intimidated,
or is sensitive to the scorn or commiseration
of her friends, you may come in from tract-
ing, or a long walk, where you have pros-
trated yourself on the earth, humbled your-
self to the very dust before your Father in
heaven, to see the placard in the front win-
dow, “Apartments to Let,” and feeling as
though a cold hand clutched at your heart,
you will understand that you must go. And
that would not be so bad of itself, but you
must await the necessary developments, not
knowing the manner of your dismissal. You
may step softly, but soon you may hear,
“Those American shoes of yours must have
nails in the heels, look at the marks you
make on the linoleum!” You resolve to be
more careful, but before the day is done you
may hear, “Just look at that grease spot on
the fender! What a careless woman you
must be!” And you, with a bursting heart,
but giving no outward expression to your
aggravated feelings, may remember that
you saw the lady yourself rendering drip-
pings that very morning, and as you have
not handled any grease, know the lady is
scolding about her own carelessness.
	Another night passes away. Then comes
another day, and with it anxiety as to what
it may bring forth; you enter almost reluct-
antly upon its duties. The family breakfast

[Column 2]
is over, then you may get yours. Soon the
owner of indignant feelings discovers that
you did not clear up the crumbs on the
kitchen table, before you carried your plate
of bread into the dining-room. So from the
kitchen she calls out, “Why did you not
clear up the litter you made, not leave it
lying around here?” Very meekly you may
say, “I thought we might want to cut some
more but will clear it away as soon as we
are through.”
	Then, feeling you can stand no more,
when the lady comes into the room you say,
“I suppose you want us to get another
place?” You are not surprised when she
says, “I think you had better.” A little
later, when sitting in your own room up-
stairs deeply interested in writing a letter
home—with no mention of what you
are required to submit to—the landlady
enters. You do not look up, you feel the
presence, and that is sufficient. She has
dashed the dishes around, after you leave
the table, in her ugly temper breaking a
pretty china mug, but this you must not
notice, but continue the writing. In a
changed voice she addresses you:
	“Mrs. Alder, do not think any more about
what occurred this morning. I have a
nasty temper, do not think anything more
about it.”
	“Then do you wish us to stay?”
	“It will be just as well, you might find
a worse home.”
	“Home!” What a mockery it seems!
Still we are grateful that we did not have
to walk miles, perhaps, that day, going to
the door of every house where the sign in
the window reads, “Apartments to Let,” only
to be told, “We only take gentlemen,” or
that they are very expensive, more than a
modest missionary could pay, or that the
woman would say, when you asked about
her room, “How do I know but that as
soon as my back is turned, you will not be
going through my bureau drawers?” This
not only might happen, but it did, at the
last place before we came here. It chanced
that one of the Saints lived near here, and to
her you go and tell her of it.
	“I will go with you and see her, I think
it will be all right.”
	The sister assured the landlady that she
would be responsible for everything that I
might steal out of the house. Even under
these conditions you feel glad that you found
at least a temporary abiding place.
	These pictures fade from your mind, now
that you need not go away, and you thank
God, who has softened the woman’s heart,
not even asking how it came about.
	On the next day it is explained. Two
friends we had made while tracting, whom
we had visited in sickness, had called upon
a friend of their’s who lived across the
street.
	“Do you know we have two Mormon
women across the, road?” they were asked.
	“Yes,” they replied. “And if we all had
as much pure religion as they have, the
world would be better; for they have visited
us in sickness, and never mentioned their
own faith—but only that we might become
well.”
	So a kind act, quietly ministering to these,
—perhaps of those whom the Father gave
to his Son, to be His very own—had brought
a blessing when it was sorely needed. All
these thoughts pass through the mind, as
we wonder what the next field will bring.
	Then, too, there are the Saints whom we
have learned to love, to whom one’s heart
goes out in sympathy for their ostracised

[Column 3]
condition, being in the world, but not of it.
Will they remain faithful? Sometime will
they gather to Zion, where those dear boys
and girls may never more feel the scorn of
the world? And the friends, what of them?
Have you done your best; been wise as may
be, not giving them strong meat, but just
feeling after them with solicitude? And
those two friends who invited you to their
home, seeking for comfort. But you did
not know that they had heart sorrows until
you went, then they were unfolded to you.
In vain they had sought elsewhere for some-
thing to ease their hearts, and give them
peace. At last they say, “Our brother
died a few years ago, a suicide, what will
be his fate?”
	Staggered by the announcement, and
deeply grieved, you look into the earnest
faces before you, while a silent prayer for
wisdom and knowledge rises up from your
heart. You do not know the circumstances,
nor what lead up to the act, so cannot enter
into it, but the Gospel is tidings of joy, of
that you can speak, and of the love of God
that encompasseth all things, and that He
consigns not to endless torment, but the
punishment is according to the degree of
sin. And, oh, you are so glad to see peace
enter into that home, even though they do
not at this time accept of that which is so
precious to you. The strong oak of that
house had fallen on the earth, not by an-
other’s act, but by his own. The tender
vines that years of close companionship had
wound around him had fallen to the ground.
Now the tendrils were putting forth little
shoots, feeling for something on which to
cling and grow anew.
	“Blessed are they that mourn, for they
shall be comforted.”
	There is one other with whom we grieved
to part. One day, tracting from door to
door, in the center of the town, we knocked
at one where a sweet faced woman, with a
big boy in her arms, answered it.
	“Will you accept of a Gospel tract to read?
The spoiled boy is rude, it is with difficulty
she holds him, but she says:
	“What denomination are you?”
	You give the usual answer, but she has
never heard of such a people. You are glad
when she says,
	“I am going to move to —— Street,
and would be pleased to have you call,
there.”
	Of course, in a little time you went, only
to find they had gone on their holidays.
Later you find her home, and you are in-
vited in. The troublesome boy is at his
grandmother’s, and you can tell her of the
real nature of the Gospel.
	“My husband has heard of your people,”
she said. “Won’t you come some evening
when he is at home? I would like him to
meet you.”
	Yes, you will be glad to call, and you find
this to be an ideal, happy home. You love
this dear lady—cannot help it—and the
thought comes, “If I win only one soul to
Christ, how great my joy will be!” And so
far as I know, this was the only one, this
fair, precious, tender woman, who accepted
the Gospel, who heard of it first from my
lips.
	But she will come to London, to the Con-
ference. I shall see her again.
	Now, the packing all done, forth we go to
bid the subjects of our thoughts good bye.
	[CONTINUED ON PAGE 64.]


MISSIONARY EXPERIENCE.
		(Continued from page 58)
	Even the landlady, who feared our going
through her belongings, came in for a fare-
well. She was a rough woman, but an hon-
est one. Her husband had joined the volun-
teers for Africa (it was the time of the Boer
war) and left her to provide for herself and
two children, except what the city paid to
her. She had become a friend; attended the
meetings, and said, “If any in the earth
have the truth, you have.” Her people per-
suaded her that she could do better to go
out to do day work, leaving her children
with them. Thus they accomplished their
desire, and the missionaries had to find
other lodgings. All this is past now; some
day she may come into the fold. Only one
we did not go to see. She was a little
woman who had at first been very kind.
When the writer caught her dress in one of
the old English styles, and fell, her limb 
afterwards becoming nearly black, so much
was it bruised from ankle to knee, she had
tenderly bathed and soothed it with healing
ointment. But neighbors poisoned her
mind, told her that even from across the
street, I had, they could see, tipped the
mirror of the dresser too far over, and
“made her house look ever so.” So, filled
by the hate that the adversary of souls in-
spires, she had turned us into the street,
while she foamed at the mouth and shook
like an aspen leaf, afterwards being ill in
bed for six months.
	“Why did you not tell us you had such
things to endure?” I was afterwards asked.
	“What would be the use of telling that
which you could not understand?
	As we ride in the train to Euston Station,
we think of a man whom we invited to at-
tend this Conference in London. He had
read the tracts, and being a builder, had
desired to see the manner of houses in Utah.
We had taken the pictures for him to see.
He was much interested. “But come to
London,” we said, “hear the presiding auth-
orities talk.”
	“Do you think I would be, safe to come
there?” he asked.
	How long before people will understand
Utah and the Mormons?
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MEDITATION IN THE HOUSE OF THE LORD.
	Peace! be still in Father’s House,
		Softly should our footsteps fall,
	And our souls responsive listening,
		Listening to the Spirit’s call.
	Angels all around us hovering,
		Watching, praying all the while,
	Glad to help us in our labor,
		Save our friends behind the veil.
	They are anxious for their freedom,
		Longing, waiting for release,
	Hoping we’ll unlock their prison,
		Bring them Gospel-light and Peace.
	They will love us for deliverance,
		Meet us with a joyful clasp,
	Great our glory to be saviors,
		Dwell in mansions with the blessed,
						EMILIE MAESER.


OUR PIONEERS
O’er trackless deserts, wild and wide,
	The early Pioneers
Marched cheerfully, with hopeful hearts 
	And cast aside all fears.
They knew God’s hand was over them
	They trusted not in vain—
For thro’ the boundless wilderness,
	He brought them home again.

Not palaces, nor marbled halls
	Nor tents—nor beds of ease—
But heaven’s canopy o’er all,
	Was home, with joy and peace.

Come, let us sing—our voices ring—
	“The desert like a rose,”
Has blossomed and made glad our hearts,
	Brought joy and sweet repose.
Then honor give to whom it’s due,
	Our sturdy Pioneers!
With pride we’ll sing of all they’ve done,
	Throughout the coming years.

They fought the drouth with mighty hand, 
	Out in this Western clime,
They looked starvation in the face,
	Yet conquered every time,
For Providence was over them,
	He was the Friend in need,
Who succored them, when all else failed,
	And proved a Friend indeed.

Our Pioneers! How few are left!
	Ere many years go by,
There’ll none be left to hear our song,
	Let’s sing while they are nigh,
Our Pioneers! Our Pioneers!
	God bless our Pioneers!
We’ll honor them—we’ll sing of them,
	Thro’ all the coming years.
			HATTIE CRITCHLOW JENSEN.


[Column 1]
U. W. P. C AND REAPERS SOCIAL.
ON WEDNESDAY FEBUARY 23, 1910.
	Through mutual agreement the Utah Wo-
man’s Press Club and the Reapers Social
met in the EXPONENT Office, Bishop’s
Building, to do honor to our founder and
organizer, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells. Pres-
dent Mrs. Hattie C. Jensen, presiding.
Elder George Q. Morris was called upon to
open the meeting with prayer. The secre-
tary then called the roll, showing a good at-
tendance of officers and members.
	Master Byron Jensen sang an appropriate
selectfon with violin obligato by Lucile
Critchlow.
	The most touching tribute of the evening
was given by Annie Wells Cannon—“Emm-
eline B. Wells as a Mother”-her tenderness,
her sympathy and love, and withal, her
great wisdom in directing the youthful
minds of her children, were so beautifully
depicted by the speaker that hearts throbbed
audibly and eyes were moistened. The for-
titude and courage of that mother; no ele-
ment of fear ever came to this ofttimes lone-

[Column 2]
ly household through the sublime faith and
courage of the mother; and thus were the
children taught by precept and example, to
follow in her illustrious footsteps.
	Miss Bessie Smith then sang in a very
pleasing manner “The Songs my Mother
Sang.”
	Dr. E. R. Shipp then read an article en-
titled “As an Editor” expressive of heartfelt
appreciation of our poet-editor.
	Miss Vera Jensen then sang very sweetly,
“Bonnie Sweet Bessie.”
	Mrs. Lydia D. Alder in her effort to show
the immortal powers of “The Writer,” nice-
ly demonstrated her own facile ability as a
penwoman.
	In behalf of the two clubs, Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp presented our honorary president with
a silken gown as a token of loving esteem
of her co-workers. Mrs. Wells responded in
her sweet characteristic way, her words of
loving appreciation reaching all hearts.
	Delicious refreshments were served along
with pleasant interchange of thought and
soul to soul communion of life-long friends.
Then followed a musical program and inter-
esting speechmaking.
	An original song by Prest. Hattie C. Jen-
sen was beautifully rendered by a special
quartette: Samuel Winters, Harold Bar-
clough, Mrs. Sarah Wood and Vera Jen-
sen.
	Don Carlos Wood gave several humorous
recitations which were highly appreciated.
Followed by a piano duet by Mrs. Clara
Jensen and daughter.
	The Ladies Quartette, composed of Anna
Ericson, Natalie Thomas, Leah Arnold and
Marie Thomas, sang very sweetly.
	Bathsheba W. Smith, President of the
Relief Society, expressed her good will for
Sister Wells, and gave reminiscences of
early Missouri pioneer days.
	Mrs. Ruth M. Fox told in fitting words
how much we all realize what this little wo-
man has done for us in stimulating literary
effort and inspiring us to bring out all the
possibilities of our natures.
	She had often imagined Sister Wells as a
young girl and believed she too loved to
make herself look beautiful as other girls
do. The evening’s entertainment closed
with cordial handshakes and many, many
loving wishes for long life and happiness to
our honored and revered leader, Emmeline
B Wells.
			ELLIS R. SHIPP,
				Secretary U. W. P. C.


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mr. Frank Sanborn writes in his Boston
letter to the Springfield Republican:
	Mrs. Howe continues her activities at the
women’s club and elsewhere, and has recom-
mended to her club mates to take up a
study of the races mingling in our national
population with particular reference to the
powerful Irish element. In that connection
she mentions that in 1843 she accompanied
Dr. Howe on a visit to Ireland, and, against
the adv ce of their London friends, went in
Dublin to hear O’Connell in one of his great
repeal speeches. It was interesting to hear
her and one of her daughters sing some of
the old English comic songs, one after the
other; much as I heard Mrs. Gerrit Smith
and her daughter, about 1870, sing at
Clarke’s Island, in Plymouth harbor, the
ballad of Lockhart, once in great favor as
a song, “The Bridal of Andalla.”

[Column 2]
	Mme. Marguarite Durand, editor of a
daily newspapor, and a leader of the suffrage
movement in France, intends to present
herself at the election in May as a candi-
date for the Chamber of Deputies. Women
are not legally eligible, but Mme. Durand
will run to call attention to the discrimina-
tion against her sex, and to the necessity of
giving women the franchise.
	Mrs. J. Scott Anderson, principal of the
Swarthmore School and Kindergarten for
the Deaf, has been appointed to represent
four different parties at the International
Congress on home Education, to be held in
Brussels, August 21-25. Governor Stuart
has delegated her to represent the Com-
monwealth of Pennsylvania. She will attend
also as the delegate of the American Acad-
emy of Social and Political Science, the
Philadelphia League of Home and School
Associations, and the Woman’s Club of
Swarthmore. Both Mr. and Mrs. Anderson
are ardent suffragists.—Ex.
	Miss Susan Lawrence and Miss Nettie
Alder have just been elected to the London
County Council where they will legislate
for more people than make up the whole
population of Massachusetts. Twenty-one
years ago Miss Jane Cobden (now the wife
of T. Fisher Unwin) and Lady Margaret
Sandhurst were elected to the Council, but
the courts held that women were not eligible.
During their short experience on the Coun-
cil, pending the decision of the court, Miss
Cobden and Lady Sandhurst rendered such
valuable service that the London County
Council has been petitioning Parliament
ever since to make women eligible. After
twenty years’ delay, the last Parliament got
around to doing so, and did it handsomely,
with only 15 dissenting votes out of 670
members of the House of Commons.—Ex.
	Miss Evangeline E. Whitney, who was in
charge of the recreation centres of the New
York public schools, has just died. The
Journal of Education describes her as “the
brilliant pioneer worker in this great field of
public school endeavor.” It adds: “This
phase of public school effort is as distinct a
blessing to the world as the discovery of the
causes of yellow fever and tuberculosis, and
a memorial should be raised in honor of the
woman who led in this movement in the
greatest of American cities.”
	Mrs. Winifred Harper Cooley, daughter of
Mrs. Ida Harper, is National Secretary of
the Associated Clubs of Domestic Science.
As a result of her investigation she has
reached the conclusion that a law to make
the cold storage of food products for longer
than six months illegal would go far toward
solving the evil of high prices.
	Lady St. Helier (formerly Lady Jeune),
has been chosen an alderman.
	Miss Mary Johnston coutributes to the
Atlantic Monthly an admirable article in
favor of votes for women, to offset Mrs.
Margaret Deland’s recent contribution on
the other side.
	Mrs. Ellen M. Henrotin and Dr. Anna
Dwyer, president of the medical staff of
Mary Thompson Hospital, have been ap-
pointed by Mayor Busse on the commission
of thirty members to investigate vice con-
ditions in Chicago. The powers of the com-
mission are limited to the securing of infor-
mation and the making of a report with
recommendations.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher
ANNIE WELLS CANNON, Assistant Editor.

	Published monthly in Salt Lake City, Utah. Terms:
one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 50 cts.
No reduction made for clubs. City papers delivered by
mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of non-
pariel space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal
discount to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office rooms 28 and 29, 2nd floor Bishop's
Building, 40 North Main Street, Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah
as second class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.	-	-	MARCH, 1910.


SEVENTEENTH OF MARCH.
	The annual day of the Relief Society,
March 17, has been observed this year, we
think, in every ward in all the Stakes and
missions throughout the Church; this has
been customary now for quite a number of
years, more particularly since the Jubilee of
this Society was celebrated in 1892, it is
called the Relief Society day—the one day
in all the year when the sisters contribute
for the fund of the General Society. It is
the only means that the General Officers and
Board of Directors have to defray the neces-
sary expenses of carrying on the work of
this great institution. Ten cents from each
member is a very small contribution and
yet were every member to give the ten cents
it would be, we do believe most sincerely a
great blessing to the individual member,
and certainly to the President and officers
of the Society who labor assiduously for the
advancement of the cause for which on the
seventeenth of Mark, 1842, in the beautiful
city of Nauvoo this Society was founded.
	It is impossible in a short article to tell
the various ways this money is used, but 
the President of this organization, who was
present at the memorable meeting when
the organization took place is a very pru-
dent woman in the handling of means, and
not one cent is ever paid out of the treasury
without her sanction, and her signature at-
tached to the order for the money, also the
name of the secretary. The Treasurer pays
all bills, issues all checks, and everything
is paid with checks and in no other way.
	It was not our intention to mention the
ten cent donation in speaking of the annual
day, but only to suggest that the sisters do
observe it and make it the Relief Society
day for all time. It is now sixty-eight
years since the founding, and in two more
years it will be seventy. In that time we
might perhaps think of something appro-
priate for so great an occasion as that will
be, something that will be distinctive and
largely representative.


[Column 1]
HOME INDUSTRY.
	There is much being said just now about
home manufacture and home industry, and 
it really seems that our people are in earnest
in this matter once more; let us hope so,
and that we are beginning to go back to
first principles in this respect, and durability
and something that has real substance in-
stead of a fine display of shoddy material.

[Column 2]
Not that all the goods we buy is of that 
class, but the home-made products of wool
and silk have certainly been very much bet-
ter, and lasted longer and have been much
cheaper in the end than those imported.
	We were all very proud of our woolen 
goods, cloth, blankets and shawls especially,
we can never forget how durable they were,
no other blankets bought elsewhere lasted
so long; only a few, we think, have those yet
that were manufactured at first; but those
who have are fond of displaying them, and
our sisters refer with great pride to the
Woman’s Store, when Sister Eliza R. Snow
managed it, and we recall with the utmost
satisfaction the success of that department
of work connected closely with the Relief
Society in early days and which eventually
merged into Cutler Bro’s. but still retained
the name of home manufacture and kept in
stock the Provo Mills woolen goods, and
other such like commodities. 
	We were very glad to have factories, in-
stead of so much carding, spinning and
weaving in our own homes in such a primi-
tive way, although perhaps the women and
girls who were engaged in this work at
home, were quite happy and enjoyed that 
kind of employment; and some of the 
grandmothers now recount with pride the 
good old-fhshioned methods of those early
times, and how desirous they were to have
the very finest and best quality and color in
their wearing apparel, carpets and the vari-
ous articles made at home.
	In the commencement of the Relief So-
ciety in Nauvoo one of the first things en-
joined upon the sisters was to furnish or 
find employment for those in need of as-
sistance; and it has always been the aim
and endeavor to carry out this counsel of
the Prophet Joseph Smith, and much has 
been done in this direction; but as a people
we seem to have drifted away of late years
from this advice, and to have accepted what
seemed easier methods in the way of living
and helping the needy, and while ready 
money has come into more common use,
we have certainly neglected some important
matters, and we are not so independent as
we ought to be, or as we might have been.
	For a number of years the Relief Society
as well as individuals struggled to establish
silk culture; thousands of mulberry trees
were planted and millions of silk worms fed,
and cocoons of an excellent quality raised.
President Brigham Young had a mulberry 
farm with a large cocoonery just south of
this city and took the lead in this branch
of home industry, as he did in many other
home industries and manufactures. Aunt
Zina Young, who was for many years Presi-
dent of the Uiah Silk Assoclation; traveled
over Utah and throughout the Stakes of 
Zion in the interest of this branch of home 
industry. To be sure a great deal was done,
time would fail to tell of the efforts made 
by the sisters in this direction and what was
accomplished, and it is a deep source of re-
gret to the women of this State, that for 
lack of means, which might easily have been
furnished, if capitalists and legislators had
been wise enough to promote this industry,
that would have been far better for the peo-
ple than a gold mfne in their midst; but it 
was allowed to die out, and the sisters wear
imported silk which is vastly inferior to the 
home-made.
	One might go on enumerating the many
home enterprises that have been started and
have failed for lack of support and patron-
age, that are a source of regret today, not 
only because of the benefits that might have

[Column 3]
resulted, in clear gain and a sort of inde-
pendence that is always a credit to any peo-
ple, but best of all might have given re-
munerative employment to the boys and 
girls of our people.
	The Woman’s Store that is still struggling
for support, and which many of our sisters
have almost forgotten, was started upon this
principle, and was named “The Woman’s
Co-operative Mercantile and Home Manu-
facturing Institution.” It was intended to
help young women and girls to employment,
as well as to promote the interests of wo-
men along all the lines of work with a view
to self-support. Most of the branches of the 
Relief Society in Salt Lake County own
shares in this store, as well as a number of
individual members.
	The first President of the instituion, Mrs.
M. Isabella Horne, was one of the strongest
advocates of home industries and home
manufactured materials among this people,
and she had as coadjutors in this undertak-
ing at first, many of the leading women of
the city and county. Among the foremost
who worked for its establishment was Dr.
Elvira S. Barney, whose energy and enter-
prise accomplished so much in the building
up of this city. The houses she built and 
owned, stand as monuments to her memory
and achievement.
	At the present time Mrs. R. K. Thomas
is the President of this institution. The
store itself is in very good hands, under the 
management of a Board of Directors, all
able women, and Miss Mary Morgan is Busi-
ness Manager of the store itself, it is at the
present time located at 41 1/2 S. Main Street.
Salt Lake City.
	If our sisters in the cities and towns ad-
jacent would patronize the Woman’s Store
when they come in to trade it might help
very materially, and it is certainly a good
investment for themselves to sustain an en-
terprise, which has such a philanthropic ob-
ject in view for the betterment of the youth
of our city; for whatever gives employment
to any community of people is of incalcu-
able value.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The birthday anniversary of President
Wilford Woodruff was appropriately cele-
brated by his numerous family on March
1st, in the Fourteenth Ward chapel. Music-
al exercises and reminescences by children
and grandchildren of this illustrious chief-
tain were the principal features of the gath-
ering.
	The daughters of Sister Emma S. Wood-
ruff gave a birthday party for her on Thurs-
day, March 3, at the handsome residence of
her daughter, Mrs. J. J. Daynes, Jr., on
Fifth East Street. About a hundred ladies
were present to honor the occasion. The
rooms were very beautifully decorated with
choice flowers, vines and palms, and the
most exquisite music, vocal and instru-
mental, was rendered. Several of the ladies
present made brief remarks, expressing the
high appreciation of the work Sister Wood-
ruff had performed, both in the Salt Lake
Temple and the Relief Society, and wishing
her many happy returns of her birthday,
which occurs on March 1st, the same day as
that of her distinguished husband. Many
gifts and tokens of love and esteem were
presented. During the afternoon each lady
was asked to write a couplet or verse and
read to the company, and a prize of a very
pretty book was given to the winner. This


made a little diversion. Sister Sarah Mc-
Donald won the book. A number of old-
fashioned songs were sung by some of the
company. Delicious refreshments were
served by the daughters and grand-daughters
of the honored guest of the occasion.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MINUTES OF FIRST RELIEF SOCIETY.
		Masonic Hall, Nauvoo, Illinois:
			Lodge Room, March 17, 1842.
	Minutes of the first organization of the
Relief Society as prepared by Miss Eliza R
Snow, from the original minutes taken at
the meeting. A preliminary meeting was
held at the residence of Mrs. Sarah M. Kim-
ball, (recently deceased,) at which meeting
Miss Eliza R. Snow was present, and it was
decided at that time to consult President
Joseph Smith about an organization. Ac-
cordingly, the meeting was called by his
appointment.
	Elder John Taylor was called to the chair
and Elder Willard Richards appointed sec-
retary. Meeting commenced by singing,
“The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning,”
Prayer offered by Elder John Taylor.
	It was then moved by President Joseph
Smith and seconded by Mrs. Cleveland, that
a vote be taken to know if all present were
satisfied with each person present and will-
ing to acknowledge them in full fellowship
and admit them to the full privileges of the
institution about to be formed. Vote was
unanimous.
	President Joseph Smith addressed the
meeting to illustrate the objects of the so-
ciety; that the society might provoke the
brethren to good works in looking to the
wants of the poor, searching after objects of
charity, etc.; to assist, by correcting the
morals and strengthening tne virtues of the
community, and save the Elders the trouble
of rebuking, etc. He proposed that the
sisters elect a presiding officer to preside
over them and let that presiding officer
choose two counselors; that he would ordain
them and let them preside over the society
just as the presidency preside over the
Church, and if they needed his instruction,
ask him—he would give it from time to
time. “If any other officers are needed to
carry out the designs of the institution let
them be appointed and set apart. The
minutes of your meetings will be precedents
for you to act upon.” He then suggested
the propriety of electing a presidency to
continue in office during good behavior, or
so long as they should fill the office with
dignity, etc.
	Motioned by Mrs. Elizabeth Ann Whit-
ney and seconded by Mrs. Sophia Packard,
that Mrs. Emma Smith be chosen President:
passed unanimously.
	On suggestion of President Joseph Smith
the President-elect made choice of Mrs.
Sarah M. Cleveland and Mrs. Elizabeth Ann
Whitney for counselors.
	The ceremony of ordination was then per-
formed, when President Joseph Smith re-
sumed his remarks, giving instruction how
to govern themselves in their meetings,what
order to observe, how to regulate discussions,
etc., etc., and concluded by saying, “Do
not injure the character of any one; if mem-
bers of the society shall conduct themselves
improperly, deal with them and keep all
your doings within your own bosoms, and
hold all characters sacred.”
	It was then proposed that president Tay-
lor vacate the chair. President Emma
Smith took the chair with her counselors.

[Column 2]
	Elder Taylor moved, seconded by Presi-
dent Joseph Smith, that the society go into
an investigation respecting what name it
should be called. Motion carried unani-
mously.
	President Joseph Smith and Eders John
Taylor and Willard Richards favored the
name Benevolent Society; Mrs. Cleveland
moved that it be Relief Society; and Mrs.
Emma Smith and Miss Eliza R. Snow ar-
gued in favor of Mrs. Cleveland’s choice.
	The discussion was lengthy and interest-
ing, but the decision of the majority was in
favor of Mrs. Cleveland’s choice, and the
name selected and voted upon was Female
Relief Society. (The prefix Female was
many years ago discarded by popular vote
throughout the entire organization.)
	By unanimous vote Miss Eliza R. Snow
was elected Secretary and Miss Phebe M.
Wheeler, Assistant Secretary, and Miss El-
vira A. Cowles, Treasurer.
	President Joseph Smith said, “I now de-
clare this society organized with President
and Counselors according to Parliamentary
usages, and all who shall hereafter be ad-
mitted into the Society must be free from
censure and received by vote.”
	Elder Taylor addressed the meeting say-
ing he was much gratified in seeing a meet-
ing of this kind in Nauvoo; his heart re-
joiced when he saw the most distinguished
characters stepping forth in a cause which
was calculated to bring into exercise every
virtue and give scope to the benevolent feel-
ings of the female heart. He rejoiced to see
this institution according to the laws of
heaven; his prayer was that the blessings of
God and the peace of heaven might rest up-
on this institution henceforth.
	President Joseph Smith gave a five dollar
gold piece to commence a Relief Society
Fund and said, “Whatever I do hereafter
for charity. I shall do through this society.”
	Sarah M. Kimball gave $1.00, Elizabeth
Ann Whitney, 50 cts., Emma Smith, $1.00
Sarah M. Cleveland, 12 1/2 cts., Willard Rich-
ards, $1.00, Elder John Taylor $2.00.
	The names of the sisters present at this
meeting were: Emma Smith, Martha
Knight, Elvira A. Cowles, Sarah M. Cleve-
land, Phebe Ann Hawkes, Margaret A.
Cook, Desdemona Fulmer, Elizabeth Ann
Whitney, Sarah M. Kimball, Elizabeth
Jones, Leonora Taylor, Eliza R. Snow,
Sophia Packard, Bathsheba W. Smith,
Sophia Robinson, Phelanda Herrick, Phebe
M. Wheeler, and Sophia R. Marks.
	After singing, “Now, Let us Rejoice in
the Day of Salvation” prayer was offered
and meeting adjourned for one week.


[Column 1]
		PUBLIC RECEPTION. 
	The General Board of the Relief Society 
gave a public reception in the new Head-
quarters in the Bishop’s Building on Mon-
day, February 28, 1910, in honor of the 82nd 
anniversary of the birthday of the secretary 
(Aunt Emm. Wells). Although Aunt Emm. 
was born on February 29, 1828, and only 
has a real birthday once in four years, and 
in the year nineteen hundred there was no 
29th, yet her friends insist on a “make be-
lieve” birthday, three years out of the four. 
	The reception was from four o’clock to 7
p.m., and it is estimated there were about 
six hundred people called.
	Clive’s Band furnished exquisite music, 
which added greatly to the enjoyment of the 
guests; simple refreshments were served by 
young women and girls, who delight in 
these social functions. The members of the

[Column 2]
General Board were a receiving committee, 
and enjoyed showing every possible atten-
tion to those who called during the after-
noon. President Bathsheba W. Smith sat 
by the side of Aunt Emm. and received with 
her, shaking hands with all who came to 
offer their congratulations. 
	The several rooms at the headquarters 
were in gay attire, the profusion of beauti-
ful flowers (all of them gifts from dear 
friends) were tastefully arranged, and to-
gether with the potted plants and palms, 
loaned from the Temple conservatory, dis-
posed here and there, made of the apart-
ments a very delightful picture, almost like 
fairyland, though in midwinter. 
	It was a very great occasion, and gratify-
ing to those who participated, and never to 
be forgotten by the one in whose honor the 
reception was so generously given. 
	There was real enjoyment in seeing so 
many of the faithful workers in the Relief 
Society, and the many dear friends of former 
days and times, and withal many newer 
friends, who are also equally dear, because 
of congenial companionship and afflliation
along lines of progress and advancement, 
which is so aptly expressed in the club 
motto, “Unity in Diversity,” is indeed com-
pensation rich in value, and makes one for-
get, at least for the time being, that one is 
really under obligations for so much atten-
tion; and that helps, for really one feels, 
when receiving the congratulations of the 
multitude, that there are no words to express 
the gratitude one feels who is the recipient 
of such an ovation. 
	In the evening a small company met in 
the handsome reception room of the Relief 
Society in the Bishop’s Building, which was 
a bower of flowers of a beautiful variety of 
color, and the air was fragrant with sweet-
ness, and everything possible had been ar-
ranged with a view to bestowing pleasure 
and enjoyment for the invited guests, as 
well as the lady whom they met to honor. 
President Bathsheba W. Smith, and the 
members of the General Board, with their 
husbands or escorts, were present, and 
there was a most heavenly feeling pervad-
ing the apartments. 
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry, as mis-
tress of ceremonies, managed with tact and 
proved herself a perfect mistress in the art 
of pleasing all, and proved a host in
herself.
	The hymn, “Now let us rejoice in the day 
of salvation,” was sung, Sister Amy B. Ly-
man accompanist on the piano. President 
F. M. Lyman offered the opening prayer, 
which was very impressive and inspiration-
al, and touched all hearts with its eloquent 
simplicity and tenderness. 
	There were present President Anthon H. 
Lund and wife, President F. M. Lyman and 
wife, Elder H. J. Grant, Elder B. H. Rob-
erts and wife, Elder J. Golden Kimball and 
wife, and Col. Willard Young and wife. 
Other guests were relatives of Aunt Emm., 
of the Whitney and Wells families, and 
members of the Board and husbands or 
escorts, and children and grandchildren of 
Mrs. Wells. 
	President Lund, Elders H. J. Grant, B. 
H. Roberts, J. Golden Kimball, Rulon S. 
Wells, Joseph S. Wells, each made short 
speeches congratulatory and commenting 
upon the life and work of Aunt Emm. in a
most dignified and interesting way, and ex-
pressing the most sincere regard and appre-
ciation of her efforts for the good of those 
with whom she had labored so long and 
arduously.


Heber K. Aldous sang the beautiful
hymn “O my Father.”
	President Bathsheba W. Smith spoke of
the lifelong friendship, that had extended
over half a century, and the love and union
that had never failed through all the
years.
	Aunt Emm’s response was full of love for
all, and gratitude to her many friends who
had showered her with gifts and favors and
good-will, more than could ever be repaid,
but the love she had in her heart for them
was boundless. Thanked all who had mani-
fested such appreciation of her work, and
hoped she might be worthy of their love and
remain faithful to the end.
	Brother Aldous sang “Our mountain home
so dear,” composed by Aunt Emm., in which
all present joined and the benediction was
pronounced by Col. Willard Young.
	The daintiest refreshments were served by
the sweetest young girls, and the birthday cake
was brought in, the eighty-two wax candles
lighted, and the guests were invited to try
blowing out the candles, after a little time,
to see how many each one could extinguish.
Several of the gentlemen tried and succeeded
in putting out most of them. This created
a little merriment, and there was a little good-
natured sparring between the Whitneys and
the Wells’s as to which had the best claim
on Aunt Emm.
	Altogether the affair was very pleasant
and a perfect success in the way of enjoy-
ment. Although Aunt Emm. feels she can
never in any way repay her many friends
for the loving gifts so generously bestowed
and the flowers, that she so dearly loves, which
were sent from florists, as well as her near
and dear friends.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
 		JUAB STAKE.
	A conference of the Juab Stake Relief
Society convened in the Tabernacle at
Nephi, March 25, 1910, President Unity
Chappell presiding. The speakers were
President Chapppell, Counselor Priscilla
Lunt, Presidents E. H. Grace and J. W.
Ord, and Sister Ann Garrett, the latter speak-
ing in the gift of tongues. The speakers all
told of the great progress and growth of this
Relief Society, since it was organized; and
the support and benefit it had been to the
Church, and felt that with them there
was no such word as fail.
	Each ward in the stake was represented,
and very good reports were given by all.
	President Chappell read a letter from
President Bathsheba W. Smith, which was
full of love and encouragement to the sis-
ters.
	Sister Chappell urged the young mothers
to take hold of this work, as it would surely
fall upon their shoulders to carry it on.
	A full choir was in attendance and furn-
ished some beautiful music, and a very
profitable time was enjoyed.
				SADIE COLE,
					Stake Secretary.


UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the regular 50th Relief Society
Conference of Uintah Stake of Zion, held in
Maeser Ward, February 20, 1910, beginning
at 2. p. m. We had a good attendance of
brethren and sisters, President Nancy A.
Colton presiding.
	After the usual exercises, the Sacrament


was administered. President Colton wel-
comed the brethren and sisters and spoke
of the sickness in the valley; we should be
united and one sister help the other look
after the sick.
	Song by a group of little boys and girls
led by Ethelwynne Collett, accompanied
by Hazel Allen.
	Lecture by Anna Smart entitled “The
Best Discipline for Character Building,”
which was very ably handled.
	Recitation by Ada Winder entitled “Lit-
tle Rose Bud.”
	Stake Presidency represented by Elders
Reuben S. Collett and Harris W. Woolley.
	Elder Harris W. Woolley had been edified,
but the thought had come to him how we
were to reach the ideas that had been placed
before us? I think, said he, the only way
is to be united in our efforts and then we
will reach the point.
	He referred to the lecture and recitations
which had been given, also spoke of the
books our children should read.
	Song by Bathera Young accompanied by
Hazel Allen.
	Elder Reuben S. Collett had been much
impressed by what President Colton had
said in regard to helping the sick, urged the
sisters to be neighborly in times of sickness,
he urged each and every one to know the
kind of companions and books our children
have.
	Counselor Annie K. Bartlett in behalf of
the Stake Board, thanked the Bishopric of
Maeser Ward for letting us have this house
Sunday afternoon, thinking we wanted to
get more of the brethren to come; spoke of
letting little boys play marbles for keeps,
it is a little thing, but it might lead to
greater evils.
	Mary H. Stringham spoke of the anniver-
sary on the 17th of March, the day the Re-
lief Society was first organized; she invited
all to be present.
	Conference odjourned for three months to
be held in Glines Ward.
	Singing, “Count Your Many Blessings.”
	Benediction by Patriarch Nelson Merk-
ley.
		PHEHE A. MERKLEY, Secretary.


CELEBRATION OF ANNUAL DAY.
Editor Exponent:
	The Relief Society of the St. Joseph
Stake celebrated Annual Day, Masch 17, at
Thatcher, beginning at 11 a. m., in the
Amusement Hall, Pres. Elizabeth W. Lay-
ton, presiding. A program was rendered,
in which a speech of welcome and response,
vocal and instrumental music, and recita-
tions were given by members of the differ-
ent wards. These numbers all had a bear-
ing on the original progress and results of
this organization given to women sixty-
eight years ago, by the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
	At the close of the program a sumptuous
repast was partaken of by all the brethren
and sisters present, numbering about two
hundred.
	At 2.30 the Bazaar opened. Articles from
all the booths were in such demand that
they readily sold, and by 6 p. m., the bazaar
closed. An amusing program was rendered
at different periods during the afternoon.
	An entertainment by the Home Dramatic
Company was given in the evening, for the
benefit of the Society, and the house filled
to its utmost capacity. The day and eve-


ning were a decided success both socially 
and financially and will long be remem-
bered by the good sisters of this stake. 
	JOSEPHINE KIMBALL, Secretary.


ANNUAL DAY IN UNION, OREGON.
	Minutes of Relief Society annual meeting
held March 17, 1910, at 2 p. m., in the
meeting house, President Mary H. Dalton
presiding. First Counselor Rebecca E.
Weatherston conducting. Singing, “We
thank thee, O God, for a prophet.” Prayer
by Sister Gladys Baxter. Singing, “Sow-
ing.” Minutes of annual meeting, 1909,
read. Program for both afternoon and
evening had been arranged, but only regu-
lar afternoon services were held on account
of the demise of our beloved sister, Mary
Holladay Richens. She left a husband and
an infant son. Her sudden death cast a
deep gloom over the entire community,
both Gentiles and Saints mourned her loss.
The few short months she lived in Union
were fully occupied in instructing the young
people in singing. Her glee club, her class
of young women and her class of young
men made rapid progress under her instruc-
tion. Her advice was to cultivate the voice
above all things. There was never a day
but that she had some of the young people
about her. Her great heart of love was re-
flected by every one who knew her, and will
remain with them forever. Every moment
was full of activity for the good of others.
	Counselor Rebecca E. Weatherston read a
letter from the stake officers commending
our past labors and encouraging us for the
future and counseling us to celebrate our
annual day.
	Sister Josephine Hanks read the minutes
of the first Relief Society meeting organized.
	President Mary H. Dalton made a few re-
marks on the minutes just read and com-
mented on the Relief Society being a chari-
table organization. Was proud of this ward
organization and the willingness of the sis-
ters in helping in the recent trouble we have
just passed through in our ward. Said we
should not regard our own work when called
to help those in trouble. We cannot ap-
preciate the Gospel too much. The main
thing is to love each other, this is the mis-
sion of the Relief Society. The sisters
should check scandal wherever it is heard,
and it will prove a great blessing to them all.
	Sister Rose H. England said we little
realize the blessings the Lord blesses us
with, and testified to the truthfulness of the
Gospel.
	Sister Eliza Peterson felt the spirit of testi-
mony would leave us if we continued to
quench the spirit. She has a testimony of
the Gospel. A few words will strengthen
us.
	Sister Helena Jenson said the Relief So-
ciety has grown with the Church, it is one
of the greatest, if not the greatest organiza-
tion on the earth. She loves the Relief
Society work. Asked the blessings of the
Lord on all, and especially on the presidency.
	Sister Emily Taylor longs to bear her
testimony, but feels very timid. Loves the
work of the Gospel, and especially that of
the Relief Society.
	Sister Caroline Gilman has a strong testi-
mony to bear. With the help of the Lord
will do all she is called on to do. Hoped
the Relief Society work would grow and
spread.
	Sister Josephine Hanks has had her pray-
ers answered many times. We must live


lives of purity in order to have the holy
Spirit abide with us. Mothers must set the
example for their daughters to follow.
Prayed we would be able to meet with the
exalted ones when we go on the other side.
	Sister Charlotte Hunter then read an
original poem:
	President Dalton related some incidents
that occurred during the trial of Brother
Richens that showed his great faith and
trust in his Heavenly Father. What could
bring such comfort and trust but the
Gospel?
	Sister Gladys Baxter bore her testimony,
said the only way to meet our loved ones
who have gone on the other side is to live
for it. Asked the blessings of the Lord on
all the sisters, that we may be able to over-
look each other’s faults. Sister Caroline
Holling felt the mothers needed the blessings
of the Lord to guide them more than any
one.
	Sister Susie Morton bore her testimony to
the goodness of the Lord toward her.
	Sister Oreta Combs said so many good
things for hope and comfort had been said,
that she hardly knew what she could add
The Gospel was the only thing that had sus-
tained her in the past, few years. Asked
the blessing of the Lord on all the sisters.
She is ready to do all that is required of her,
	Sister Louisa Loveless bore her testimony.
Has been a Relief Society member for 55
years.
	Sister Elnora Jacobs would not feel satis-
fied if she went home without saying a few
words. Her desires are for good and she is
willing to obey counsel. Said we should
never let the sun go down with feelings of
ill will against any one.
	Sister Mary Atkinson bore her testimony
and made other remarks.
	Counselor Rebecca E. Weathereton was
so pleased that all of the sisters had re-
sponded so readily in rising to bear their
testimonies. Said let us do all the good we
can, and as little harm as possible. Be kind
to the mothers who gave us birth, for we
will not always have them with us. Prayed
she would hold steadfast to the end, that
she would be able to meet her loved ones on
the other side. Prayed God to bless us all.
	Sister Helena Jensen spoke of Sister Bath-
sheba Smith being the only living sister who
was at the first Relief Society meeting organ-
ized; that we have always been under the
direction of one of the sisters who was at
that first meeting.
	Sister Mary Atkinson then read a letter
from the Exponent, written by Sister Bath-
sheba W. Smith, to the officers of the Relief
Society.
	Closed by singing “Come, come ye
Saints.” Benediction, Sister Helena Jensen.
		MARY ATKINSON, Acting Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE LAMANITE REMEMBERED.
	When the Prophet Moroni had finished
his records and lain them away, in their
sepulchre of stone on the side of the Hill
Cumorah, the last ray of gospel truth upon
this continent had been entombed and
rested near the crest of the stately hill, which
stood as a sublime monument in the midst
of, perhaps, one of the largest cemeteries
that this earth had ever known.
	Moroni, left to weep alone, and yet, as
his tearful eyes still gazed upon the slayers
of the Nephite nation, he knew they were his
kindred. And while he watched them re-
cede, as they wondered away in disorganized

[Column 2]
bands, his heart yearned after them, and he
prayed, with all the fervor of his soul, that
God would remember them at the last day.
	Who can tell how often he came and
guarded that sacred spot, or how he, with
thousands of his own brethren in the spirit
world, rejoiced when they knew the time
had come which Nephi had seen in his vis-
ion: “And I looked and beheld a man
among the Gentiles who was separated from
the seed of my brethren by the many waters.
And I beheld the Spirit of God that it came
down and wrought upon the man; and he
went forth upon the many waters, even un-
to the seed of my brethren who were in the
promised land.”
	The time had come, and the Spirit whose
eye is everywhere, chose to rest upon a man
away in sunny Italy—Columbus, enamored
of the seas, a designer of maps, whose lines
he ever yearned to carry beyond the limited
horizon of his own native land. A spirit
inexplicable to him had rested upon him. A
powerful influence dominating him with a
spirit of persistence which withstood the
ridicule and jeers of those whom he impor-
tuned, and of the public in general, for the
space of many years, until finally a woman
listened to and gave him sympathy and
support, dropping the jewels from her royal
fingers, raised her hand to help him.

		Again the oft-repeated story,
		A woman helped him on to glory.

	And from the position of laughing stock
for the public, he became commander-in-
chief of three small vessels, to carry him
whither he might wander, even to other
climes and skies anew, until he might satis-
fy the longing of his soul to set his feet on
some unknown land.
	Led by a mighty faith, some invisible
magnet drawing him on until, finally his
eyes beheld the Promised Land, and he saw
the shores of the same great continent which
had been discovered by the family of Lehi
hundreds of years before.
	The very breezes welcomed him by hold-
ing the flag of Spain aloft in their embrace.
The natives, realizing as little the meaning
of that fluttering banner as did Columbus
understand the magnitude of the work he
had accomplished. Centuries have passed,
and we ask in what way have the native
children of this vast continent been bene-
fitted by the numerous colonizers who have
followed on the ocean trail of Columbus?
	The “mysterious ways” of Providence
have drawn from Spain and diffused among
the more numerous powerful tribes two in-
estimable blessings. The Spanish language
has been as connecting wires between vil-
lages and cities long estranged and antag-
onistic to each other. The Catholic priests
did a commendable work in their untiring
zeal to teach them a language which was a
great factor in bringing the inhabitants of
Mexico together and uniting them in organ-
izing government. If she did not send the
fullness of the true faith she sent them what-
ever remants of it she had in her possession.
She announced to them the existence ot a
Redeemer, even though she despoiled them
and remunerated herself richly for the glim-
mer of light she had thrown around them.
These two incalculable blessings have paved
the way to a greater work. Even as the
three small ships of Columbus marked the
way for mightier ones, so these blessings of
language and a belief in the savior have
opened the way for a fullness of all the
blessings of the gospel.
	A universal language was indespensible

[Column 3]
in unfolding to them the contents of the rec-
ords of their forefathers and the great truths
they contain, which would have been utterly
impractible in their hostile and divided con-
dition, amid the confusion of their numer-
ous and degraded dialects.
	The prayer of Moroni has beem remem-
bered, and the way has been opened for the
salvation of the remnant of the seed of the
Lamanites. May we, who are in possession
of the sacred record, be as diligent and have
as much zeal for them as did the Catholic
church in giving them the most musical and
sublime of all modern languages.
		S. T. BRIMHALL FOLEY.


AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
[LIFE AND TRAVELS OF NANCY M. TRACY.]
		(Continued from page 39.)
	My ninth and last son was born the 19th
of June, in 1854. Charles Albert, my second
son living, was called to go among the
Lamanites, and then my eldest son, Eli A.,
went. They called the place where they
went Fort Supply, but in the winter Eli, the
eldest, was brought home very sick with
mountain fever. His wife, Eliza A. Tracy,
stayed with me, for they had married the
Christmas before. He was brought home
very sick, and lay in a low state for a long
time, but good nursing, such as a wife and
mother can give, brought him all right in due
time. In the spring he went back and took
his wife with him, and their first child was
born while they were there. When the child
was six months old they came home.
	In the spring of 1857, April 25, Mosiah,
our son, went to California. This grieved
us sorely and caused us to mourn. If we
had buried him by the side of his brother
we would not have felt as we did under the
circumstances that he went away under, but he
became dissatisfied with what had transpired
and, to use his own language, he said, under
existing circumstances, he could not stay
here. His father said, as he bid him good-
by, that he would never see him again, and
he never did.
	This spring we moved back on our farm
from the Fort. My husband was sick a
good deal of the time, and did not like to
travel back and forth to see after his work,
so we came back in September the 18th,
1857.
	My first daughter was born, this being my
tenth child. It being our first girl, we
thought to give her a long name—Mary
Ellen Naomi.
	That winter the brethren were out nearly
the whole winter keeping back Johnston’s
army, but my husband’s health was so poor
he could not go with the rest. It was the
first time he had ever stayed behind when
there had been any trouble, he was constant-
ly worrying and fretting because he could
not go with the brethren; he was too sick.
	In the spring of ’58 word came from our
leaders that we were all to move south, so
we had no seed put in the ground, because
we did not expect to be here to harvest, and
if the army came in to take possession the
people were intending to commit the whole
to the flames before they should possess the
dwellings and houses of the Saints; and
after the desert had been subdued from a
wild waste and made to yield abundantly
and bloom with the bounties of the earth. I
say the Saints were going to make one gen-
eral sacrifice. There were men left to watch
their movements while the Saints were


[Column 1]
traveling south. Eli A., our eldest son,
was one that stayed. He sent his wife
and child on with the rest to the south. All
the help I had was Austin. He was four-
teen years old; the team to drive and loose
stock, husband sick and baby in my arms,
it was worse than it was in crossing the
plains for me. When we got to Salt Lake
City, we stopped for a month and then
moved on. The towns were nearly all
vacated. We got as far as Provo, and my
husband had three paralytic strokes, but in
a few days we traveled on with him, got as
far as Payson and could go no further with
him. We camped and built a shade with
willows, to break off the hot sun by day
and the dew by night. In this situation I
remained with him day after day, not ex-
pecting he would live. Sister Jane Calvin,
a widow, with her family, was camped near
by. She used to help me when she could.
These were trying times and hard times. My
children, too, were getting destitute of
clothing, but I did not allow myself to mur-
mur or complain. My husband said if he
could live to see his family in their home
once more he would be willing then to die,
and the Lord granted him the desire of his
heart, for there had been a compromise
made with the army, and they were to pass
through and go to their quarters peaceably,
and word came that all could go back to
their homes. We did not stay long after
this message came, but took my sick hus-
band and started for home. We got there
on the fourth day of July, and were truly
thankful to get to a place of rest. My hus-
band was so glad to get back that he revived
and went around the place to look after
things, and tried to save some volunteer
wheat, for that was all that grew on the
place in this year. He kept around until
the 1st of August, then was prostrated and
never rallied again, and died on the 25th of
the same month, 1858. His sufferings were
very great until death relieved him. Our
eldest son was not at home and did not
know of his father’s death. There were only
three wagons to go with me to bury him.
The people had but few of them returned
from the move south.
	I felt very lonely and worn down, but God
strengthened me in my afflictions, as He
ever had in all my sorrow, and made me
equal to every task in all our married life,
which had been twenty-eight years. We
had been mobbed and driven from place to
place. The longest we had ever lived in
one place was in Nauvoo; we lived there
eight years, before our expulsion from Illi-
nois. We moved twice while there, but it
was to better our condition.
	In two or three weeks after I buried my
husband my litile girl, now one year old,was
taken very sick, and I thought for a while that
she would follow her father. It seemed that
my cup of sorrow was running over, but the
Lord heard my prayers, and she was raised
up to me again.
	I had received letters from my son, Mos-
iah, who had been gone two years. He
gave me his address, and I wrote to him of
his father’s death, and how he grieved
about him. He wrote to me that he would
come home, if his life was spared, but he has
never come, and whether dead or alive, I
know not.
	Winter was approaching, my children des-
titute of clothing, and but little to feed
them on; I did not know what to do. I
had my hay cut, and had more than my
stock would consume. I had a chance to
sell some for shoes and store pay, which I

[Column 2]
was glad to do. This helped me out for the
winter. I think I sold twenty dollars worth
of hay. I felt very grateful for this bless-
ing; this scant allowance had to fit us up
for the winter, but it was not sufficient for
our comfort,for by my husband’s lengthy ill-
ness and death, and not raising anything on
account of the move to the south, we were
left in close circumstances.
	Spring came again. I tried to put in
what seed I could get, it was very hard to
get seed. I borrowed some wheat to sow by
giving interest, and got along the best I
could under the circumstances. Hard times
stared me in the face, until harvest came.
This was new to me, to have to manage out-
door affairs. I was not equal to the task,
my eldest son had a family of his own to
take care of, and the one left to help me was
only fifteen years old, and was all the help
I had; consequently, as my husband’s
brother’s farm adjoined mine, he proposed
looking after our interests and working the
farm. I consented to this proposition, and
was married to him for time, April, 1860. I
felt this would release me from so great a
care and responsibility as I had resting upon
me. I felt completely worn down with toil
and hardship, of which my whole life had
been made up. After embracing the Gos-
pel it had been one continual scene of perse-
cution and sacrifice of our property, from
our first gathering with the Saints in Kirt-
land, Ohio. Sometimes I felt I could not
endure any more, and then the Heavenly
Father would strengthen me and I felt to be
humble and prayerful, knowing that God’s
people always had to suffer persecution. I
felt that my religion was more to me than
all the world might be, and I felt deter-
mined to live it, let come what would,
Through all my sufferings I never doubted,
but felt to cling to the Gospel, as also to en-
courage others all in my power to do the
same. I also felt to teach my family the
principles of the true and everlasting Gospel,
to listen to and obey the counsels of the
Lord’s anointed.
	In September, 1861, I had a daughter born
by this second husband. I was now forty-
four years of age and broken down in health,
but, with the help of God, was enabled to
attend to my household duties and take care
of my children, besides making what home
wear I could to clothe them. It is a marvel
to me now, when I look upon my past life,
my journeyings in poverty, persecution, sac-
rifice and sufferings, midst sickness and
death, I say, I marvel that I am alive today
to tell the tale, and it is more than the
power of mortal man that has sustained and
preserved me see 1885 ushered in. It is
truly a day that is great with events, and
none but the true Latter-day Saints under-
stand the signs of the times and the fulfill-
ment of prophecy on the earth. The wicked
are slaying the wicked, the earthquakes, de-
struction by sea and by land, collisions of
cars on railroads and nation rising against
nation, as has been told us by the prophets.
Has it not been said that those who will
not take up the sword would flee to Zion?
This will come true, for the Latter-day Saints
will be the only people at peace, and wil

[Column 3]
cling to the Constitution to save it, while the
enemies are threshing it into shreds and are
full of animosity and hatred towards the
Kingdom of God, and truly when the wicked
rule, the people mourn. But when we see
all these things taking place, we know the
end is near and the Kingdom of God will
prevail, therefore let us be firm and true,
for it must needs be that offences come, but
woe to them by whom they come.
	I will now make an end of my narrative,
and perhaps in the future my children’s chil-
dren may read with some degree of interest
this short history, although not a hundredth
part hath been told. Farewell.
			(THE END.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
					67=69=71 Main Street, Salt Lake City.
OUR SPECIALTY		LADIES’ READY-TO-WEAR GARMENTS	TRY US
					OF EVERY DESCRIPTION.


Mary G. White
								WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

