[Vol10 | January 1923 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: How not to Catch Cold]

How Not To Catch Cold
To that end, observe the following "Dont's" issued by Dr. Charles J. Hastings, medical officer of health of Toronto, Canada, in the department's Monthly Bulletin. The following of these rules, we are assured, will aid materially in warding off colds as well as other communicable diseases. Here they are:
"Don't sit or work in an overheated room. 65 to 68 degrees is quite warm enough; 60 to 65 degrees if you are engaged in any active work. Insist on there being a slight current in the air of the room you occupy and also a proper degree of humidity.
"Don't use sprays or douches for your nose unless under doctor's orders and instructions. Much more harm than good comes from the use of sprays. In the first place, if a spray is strong enough to destroy the germs, it is more than likely to produce irritation of the mucous membrane, which will lower, rather than build up its resisting powers, and consequently make it all the more susceptible to germ activity.
"Don't sneeze or cough except into a handkerchief or a piece of cheese-cloth, and keep well beyond the range of any one else who is coughing or sneezing.
"Don't allow any member of the family who has an acute cold to come in contact with other members of the household, or to use the same eating or drinking utensils, etc. Have everything sterilized that is used by one who has contracted a cold, the same as you would do if they had scarlet fever or diphtheria.
"Don't go to any public meetings if you have a cold. You had better stay at home until it is better. You will save time in doing so, and probably save others from contracting your cold."
"Don't stand close to any one with whom you are conversing if you are reckless enough to go about when you have a cold, and
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 35
do not under any circumstances shake hands with any one while you have an acute cold. Remember, through the frequent use of your handkerchief, your are always contaminated with the germs of the disease. Have you ever catechized your hands and fingers with regard to everything they have been in contact with in the previous twenty-four hours? One of the surgeons in a military camp during the great World War, kept a careful record of the number of possibilities of contaminating his hands for one single day, and it amounted to approximately 120. "Don't under any consideration touch any article of food, whether for yourself or for anyone else, unless you have previously thoroughly cleansed your hands. Have you washed your hands?' would be a valuable motto to be placed in every diningroom. "Hundreds of lives could be saved and thousands of cases of sickness prevented, if people were as much afraid of colds as they are of smallpox or a mad dog."?Literary Digest for Decem-. Ber 9, 1922.