[Vol10 | January 1923 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Guide | Title: What Courtship Should Reveal Continued]

LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in March) WHAT COURTSHIP SHOULD REVEAL (Continued) The Religious and Moral Values ?courtship," says Henderson, "if it is honest, upright, Christian, is a series of acts intended to end in the establishment of a family. Ii it is not that, it is false, cruel, selfish, and must end in sorrow of some degree and kind, perhaps in tragedy. * * * For 'love' that is worthy of the name is not a sudden flame of sense but an unselfish principle of devotion, a serious act of consecration. It is a pity that the word which we use as a synonym of religious union with God should frequently be employed to designate the act of vice or the impetuous outburst of animal appetite. This confusion of language tends to confuse thought and conduct to blind, impulsive action.'?Henderson: Social Duties, p. 25-27, 
 The worth of a man cannot be fully appreciated if we take into account merely his inherited powers and his financial success. The proper estimate of a man's or a woman's worth must include a consideration of his or her moral and spiritual power. Besides the desire to promote the moral and spiritual life, it implies active service in the church and a successful home life. Not often do we give to great religious teachers and successful home makers all the credit to which they are entitled. Their true significance comes to light only when they fail to function, when the moral influence of the church fails to reach the people, and when the home does not properly care for the maturing. Child. And yet. The very existence of our civilization depends upon their sincere and humble service. The moral and spiritual values which they produce cannot be easily measured. They can, at least, not be measured in dollars and cents. To those who are contemplating marriage the question of the religious and family interests cannot be ignored. We may safely say that marriage would be a failure were these interests seriously lacking -in either the young man or the young woman. A married life without religion and without home interests would be without the fundamental stabilizing factors. The fickleness of other interests would soon destroy the home. As Latter-day Saints we can see only confusion and sensuality in a married life that does not place the gospel of Jesus Christ and family life on the highest plane in the scale of values. In fact, marriage is for us a religious imperative. The Lord has said' in modern revelation: '" * * * That whoso forbiddeth to marry is not ordained of God, for marriage is ordained of God unto man." Doc. And Cov. Section 49:15. The Religious Interest The religious interest, faith in God, the possibilities of a better world, and eternal life, is the embodiment of the highest ideals of human life. The person who has clearly defined religious ideals and maintains standards which conform to religious life is generally a man who views life with sufficient seriousness to guarantee success. Thus, one of the first things that a young woman should know about a young man is his religious interest. Is he active in the religious life of the community? Does he show -by his efforts that he actually believes in the validity and destiny of the spiritual life. Marnage for Eternity One way in which a man or a woman expresses sincere religious faith is in the desire to marry within the Church and in a temple. Do they regard marriage of sufficient importance to justify its being made a sacred union, one that will last throughout eternity? The Lord in modern revelation has made it clear that the great blessings of marriage cannot be realized by those who marry outside of the Church. The commandment reads: "Therefore, if a man marry him a wife in the world, and he marry her not by me, nor by my word; and he covenant with her so long as he is in the world, and she with him, their covenant and marriage are not of force when they are dead, and when they are out of the world; therefore, they are not bound by any law when they are out of the world." Doc. And Cov. Sec. 132:15. If there is any relationship which justifies a sacred ceremony it is that of marriage. To look upon marriage as a mere contract, and that only for life, may be an actual condition. Of divorce. In fact, our Church statistics show that there are fewer divorces among the Latter-day Saints who marry within a temple than among those who marry by civil law. Home Habits and Family Ideals Perhaps the most important information of all is that which concerns the home life of a young man or woman. A man or woman who does not live in harmony with father, mother, brother, or sister in the home of his parents before marriage may have difficulty in living in harmonious relations with his wife and children after he has established a home of his own. There is no place where the real selfhood gives such direct expression of its real character as in the home. Conduct on the street, in church, and at school reveal certain characteristics of a person, but not the complete self. Life in public is in many respects artificial. It expresses for the time being certain common habits and natural inclinations. In the home, where the individual spends a large part of his life, he generally does not try to be anything other than his natural and habitual self. A girl must, therefore, not deceive herself by thinking that her young man is always the perfect gentleman she meets at church, on the street, or in the party. In these places he observes carefully the customs of society, he conforms to conventionalities. If she is to know him as he really is, she must see him living his home life; at least she must find out something about his home conduct. In obtaining such knowledge the greatest care should be taken. Petty gossip and stories prepared by jealous people should be discredited. Friendly association with his parents and with the brothers and sisters of a young man as well as frank conversations with him about his ideals of home life will reveal to a girl more reliable information than can be obtained from 
 friends. In all such matters it is the young man or woman concerned who should take the initiative. Parents can, however, render valuable assistance and should always be ready with friendly and sensible suggestions. The Revealing of Interests in Larger Social Problems It is natural for youth to desire to take part in the great world of affairs, but, because of petty social interests and personal pleasures, many young people have not felt the higher impulse. The young man or woman who is entirely indifferent toward the great social and political problems of our country, state and community lacks the very essentials of good citizenship. A young person of high aspirations should hesitate to marry an individual who is coldly indifferent toward great social questions. It is, therefore, essential to know whether a young man has the ability or the desire to play a real part in solving the social problems which confront us. Will he inspire his wife and children with the spirit of human service, a desire to make the world better? Conversation will reveal these interests very quickly. This is the place where parents may well render service to both sons and daughters. It is a very splendid thing for a father and mother to engage in serious conversation on the political and social questions of the day with the young man who visits their home. When a young man calls at the home he may thus be entertained occasionally quite as well by father and mother as by the daughter. Courtship is essentially the life and problem of youth, but it is also the parents' responsibility to assist in making proper selection in marriages. QUESTIONS 1. How does Henderson define courtship? 2. Why are the religious and family duties of men and women not properly appreciated? 3. Show why marriages which are not directed by religious and social motives frequently result in failure. 4. What significance do the Latter-day Saints attach to marriage within the Church? 5. What reason can you give to show that a truly religious man generally becomes a good husband and father? 6. Is the conduct of a young woman on the street and in church a full indication of what she is in the home? Explain fully the difference between private life in the home and conduct in public places. 7. In passing judgment on the life and character of a young person who has become an intimate friend of your son or daughter, what value should be-attached to second-hand information? 8. How may reliable information be obtained concerning the home life of a young man or woman? TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR MARCH. ? USE OF DAIRY PRODUCTS 1. Increase of dairy herds and dairy products may be an important factor in overcoming present financial depression among farmers of the West. 2. The dairy business furnishes regularly, weekly or monthly, cash income to farmers. 3. The people generally may be greatly benefitted by more liberal use of dairy products. They are both cheaper and more beneficial than meat. 4, Every child should have at least a quart of milk a day. Milk is also an excellent food for adults. 5. Butter fat (cream or butter) is one of the most nutritious and healthful of all concentrated foods. Fat in some form, taken with grains and vegetables, is an essential food element. 6. Cheese is an excellent and economical substitute for meat. 7. A more liberal use of all dairy products will promote the health of your family and the wealth of your state. The Relief Society Magazine would like to secure the following Magazines, for which we will be glad to pay 20 cents per copy. Before sending any copies, write the Magazine, stating how many of each you have on hand: January and March, 1916 February and April, 1917 April and December, 1919 January and August, 1921 Brigham Young University Extension Division Announces Leadership. Week January 22 to 26 Copy of Program will be sent upon request _ Other Activities of the Extension Division include: Lectures and Entertainments Extension Classes General Service to Church and Community Address Extension Division B. Y. U. PROVO, UTAH Correspondence Courses Lyceum Courses To Our Magazine Subscribers We call your attention to the very high class firms who advertise in the magazine, and ask, whenever possible, to give them your loyal support and patronage. Also kindly mention having read their advertisement in the Magazine. We hope by your assistance to prove our value as a medium through which to advertise. Magazine Management. Quick Warmth for Winter Mornings No Shivering Kiddies When You Have A Radiant fire What comfort it is for the kiddies to jump out of bed and dress before the cheery glow of an open fire! How fascinating to watch the lacework of the radiants glow like a bed of hot coals. This wonderful new heating discovery brings to you more genuine comfort and convenience than you ever hoped for. Pure, wholesome, satisfying heat that makes you independent of a stubborn furnace. Heaters sold for a small payment with order and the balance in monthly installments. PURCHASE YOUR HEATER NOW! UTAH GAS & COKE CO. Wasatch 705  351 So. Main St. ECONOMY IN THE HOME Women today are buyers for the home. They buy with more discrimination. Care and economy than men, They know when a bargain's a bargain. These facts explain why so many women today use Utah Beet Sugar. They realize it's a bargain, for it costs less and excels most other sugar on the market. They know the use of a liberal allowance of sugar in a diet is true economy, for while sugar constitutes 544% of the average American diet, it furnishes 174%2% of the total energy in it? Also, the women show a keen sense of discrimination in selecting the best there is by purchasing? UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR Cleanliness is the first requisite to health. Buy no food that is not clean and not surrounded with immaculate cleanliness. We invite you to inspect our Market, our Goods and our methods of doing business. DICKINSON'S The right weigh. CHOICE MEATS AND FANCY GROCERIES No over charge. No short-weight. No cold-storage goods. No discourtesy. No substitution. No disappointment. All sales are fully guaranteed. Free weekly merchandise distribution to our Customers. Let us be helpful in planning your meals. Squabs furnished on short notice. Hyland 60. Free Delivery 680 Hast 2nd South. PRESENT MOTHER WITH A BOUND VOLUME OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Following are the ones we have on hand: 12 vols. Of 1915, cloth bound$1.75 1 vol. Of 1918, leather bound vols. Of 1919, cloth bound.............. 2.75 1 vol. Of 1919, leather bound.............3.00 6 vols. Of 1920, cloth bound.......... 2.75 10 vols. Of 1920, leather bound.................