[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | August | Issue: 3 | Title: A PLEASANT GARDEN PARTY. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

﻿A PLEASANT GARDEN PARTY.
	The Social entertainment given by the
Utah Woman’s Press Club the Reaper’s
Club and the Woman Suffrage Association
at Mrs. E. C. Dye’s beautiful garden on the
afternoon of Monday August 14—was one
of the most delightful gatherings of the
season. The object the ladies had in view
was to bring together in a social way old
friends and new, for interchange of thought
and pleasant converse, meantime to listen to
music and exercises of an elevating and
instructive character.
     The grounds are undoubtedly the most
charming in the City for an entertainment
of this kind, Mrs. Dye herself is an at-
tractive woman and a gracious hostess, and
the several committees from the three clubs

[Column 2]
represented, did their preparatory work
well. The afternoon was fine and all
things propitious. Among the invited
guests present were Presidents George Q.
Cannon and Joseph F. Smith, also Angus
M. Cannon and Joseph E. Taylor of the
Presidency of the Stake, of the Bishopric
of the ward Counselor J. F. Simmons, and
Bishop H. B. Clawson and Counselor
Alonzo Hyde from other wards, also Mrs.
Willmirth East of Arizona, Mrs. W. B.
Lawler of Nevada, Mrs. Anna Ivins St.
George, Mrs. Minerva W. Snow, Manti,
Hon. Aurelius Miner and wife, Mrs.
Margaret Blaine Salisbury, Mrs. C. W.
Bennett, Mrs. Amelia F. Young, Mrs. P.
M. Staines, Mrs. Carlie Y. Caunon Mrs.
Lydia Ann Wells, Mrs. Elizabeth Webb,
Mrs. Rachel R. Grant, Mrs. Elizabeth H.
Goddard and Mrs. Fewson Smith, and others
well known in the community who were
not members of the clubs that gave the
entertainment.
    Of the eminent women associated with
these societies were Mesdames Zina D. H.
Young, M. Isabella Horne, Sarah M.
Kimball, Emily S. Richards,M. W. Wilcox,
Phebe C. Young, E. J. Stevenson, M. Lois
Morris, E. J. MacFarlane, and P. P. Jen-
nings. Besides these the clubs represent
women Doctors, lecturers, speakers, editors,
newspaper correspondents, poets and wo-
men who are strong suffrage advocates.
     The exercises opened with organ music
by Miss Maude Pratt, followed with prayer
by President Angus M. Cannon, a very elo-
quent address upon woman suffrage and
kindred topics was given by Mrs. Julia P.
M. Farnsworth which we expect to publish
in full in our next issue of the paper.
     Music by the young ladies mandolin
club who came upon the platform in sim-
ple white dresses, their sweet faces beaming
with smiles, created a pleasing flutter of
enthusiasm and the music was thoroughly
appreciated, and the girls were persuaded
to give an encore.
     President George Q. Cannon’s address
which followed the music was exceedingly
interesting and contained much information
upon current matters, and was full of
earnest sympathy in all movements for
woman’s elevation and advancement. We
hope to be able to give the main points of
this address in the next EXPONENT. Miss
Ellis Shipp gave the “minuet” in a grace-
ful and charming way which delighted all
present. Mrs. Eva Hasbrouck recited
pathetically, “A Kansas Story, ” she has an
excellent voice and is evidently a woman of
culture. Mrs. Minnie J. Snow’s speech
was a very happy expression of thought on
woman’s life, duties and higher cultivation
and was in perfect harmony with the oc-
casion and the surroundings. Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp read an original poem in full accord
with the popular subject, woman; we shall
publish it later.
     A duet "Stay thou with me" by Mr. and
Mrs James T. Dunbar was finely rendered
and a pleasing feature of the afternoon;
young Dunbar gives promise of being as
good a singer and as great a favorite with
the public as his father, this completed the
program, as there were one or two delin-
quencies.
     Refreshments were then served and
social chat, indulged in with the ease and
freedom of out-door parties. By request
“Auld Lang Syne” was sung in which the
company joined, also “Hard times come
again no more,” the mandolin club very
graciously joining. This was followed by


sentiments from several of those present
notably Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Mrs. M.
Isabella Horne, President Joseph F. Smith,
President Angus M. Cannon, Mrs. E. J.
MacFarlane, Dr. R. B. Pratt and Mrs. W.
East.
	The whole affair was an enjoyable oc-
casion and the idea entertained by the
several Committees who had it in charge, to
give those who are such busy men and wo-
men a delightful afternoon was successfully
accomplished.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


