George Bernard Shaw By Alice Louise Reynolds
George Bernard Shaw is one of the literary characters who keeps continuously in the limelight. He is not the best balanced of British playwrights, but he is the most brilliant of the group. He is noted for the something different that characterizes all of his pertinent sayings, and because of this the English speaking people listen to him no matter what he says. Were the question asked in London, "Who is George Bernard Shaw?" nine out of every ten persons in the street might answer much like this: "Shaw? He's that confounded Irishman who insists that everything is right that the other fellow thinks wrong, and that everything is wrong that the other fellow thinks right. Of course, he is brilliant, but he's a bally impossible chap, doncha know."
It was my good fortune in 1911 to listen to Mr. Shaw's famous lecture on music and drama in the schools delivered before the school board of the public schools of London and the teachers of that city. I shall as nearly as possible make a record of what Mr. Shaw said on that occasion.
Richard Curl, an English critic, has described the wit of George Bernard Shaw as "smart and breathless," and, truly, it matters little whether one meets him in drama or public lecture, one is constantly impressed with his keen wit, which is, in the main, sparkling and unexpected.
Mr. Shaw began: "Before delivering this lecture I decided to ask permission of the board of control to visit the schools, to see if the schools are as they were when I attended as a boy. When I attended school, school was a prison. I found them now, as they were then, a prison. Now if pupils could come and go as they chose (as you may from my lecture?anyone who feels he is not getting the worth of his money) your schools would not be prisons. Such procedure would compel the teacher to furnish something for the pupil of real and of vital interest to him.
"You have the privilege of using the Bible in the public schools. The Bible is a product of art, but as some of you use it, it were better to place the city directory on the blackboard and ask that it be committed to memory; it would be far more serviceable.
"The spirit of art is all important. A drama not interpreted correctly may give just the opposite impression to that the author intended to convey. Some people call 'Mrs. Warren's Profession'
GEORGE BERNARD SHAW 29
bad. If the cast cannot interpret it, it may be bad, but played as it should be played, played as I have seen it played, on some occasions, it would make crime hideous.
"I distinctly recall when Wagner's 'Ring' was first presented in London. We had the best musicians and the best instruments in the United Kingdom, but it did not go. Every musician in London knew that it was not right; people who were not musicians knew that something was wrong.
"Finally, an orchestra from a not very important German city was invited to come to London and teach the English orchestra how to play the music of Wagner's 'Ring.' They were not on the whole skilled musicians, and they brought with them a motley set of instruments not nearly so good as those used by the London orchestra, but the moment they began everybody knew that at last London was hearing Wagner's 'Ring.' The German musicians knew how to interpret the music.
"I would have in every public school in the land a good piano. I should not be so particular about pupils running the scales, or knowing many of the other technicalities of music commonly taught in the public schools. I should seek to have a single motif from Mozart, Beethoven, or some others of the great composers played over and over on the piano, until the children learned to love the music of the masters. If this were done the halls where classic music is presented would not be abandoned for entertainment that is both cheap and vulgar.
"A few evenings ago I found myself in a city of southern England. I was very glad that I was in that city, for I recalled the fact that the church service there was read in an unusually effective manner, so I went to the evening service. The church was beautiful in design; all the decorations did but heighten the beauty of design; the music was good, and the clergyman's voice quite exceptional in tone, while the reading of the service was most impressive.
"After church I dropped into one of the theatres to see 'The Girl Who Took the Wrong Turning.' It was most unfortunate for "The Girl Who Took the Wrong Turning' that I had attended the church service.
"Schools are too prone to fit the student to the curriculum. They too often insist on pupils trying to learn something they cannot learn. When I was in school they told me the lie that if I would study Latin it would make the study of all other languages easier. It never did, and to this very day I cannot translate Latin. If I go into a building that has a proverb in French, German, or Italian I can usually extract the meaning, but I never can get the meaning from a Latin proverb.
"I know the cheap houses of amusement are crowded, and


the better plays neglected. I know the public is not found in the houses where my plays are presented. Still there are signs of improvement. There was a time, in certain towns in Lancashire, that the cock fight was the only form of amusement that would interest any considerable number of people. Now they go to plays where the conventional hero, heroine, and villain figure. The dude with his hair parted in the middle attracts them. This is a step forward, for at least they are getting some notion of keeping their faces clean from such performances.
"Don't be fearful of leaving good books around. Boys will read them if they can get at them. I know of a boy of twelve, who read a volume of Sir Oliver Lodge and said he enjoyed it. He had not yet learned his father's excuse, that he was so tired after baking buns all day that he must be amused when he goes to the theatre and must not be required to think."
"Almost an hour was spent in discussion after the lecture. Some teachers resented most heartily some of his statements, others disagreed, while yet others seemed to delight much at all that he said.
During the hour Shaw was at his best. He had an opportunity to make clear many points misunderstood?a thing that frequently happens with Shaw. Occasionally persons in the audience grew bitter, greatly to their own disadvantage, for the best of them were no match for Shaw.
A critic, who writes of Bernard Shaw's new play, "Androcles and the Lion," recently presented at St. James Theatre, London, rather aptly describes the same sort of thing as occurred during the hour's discussion. "It is an old tale now to say he is a good shot. He is too practiced a hand at discovering the weaknesses of men not to get a good hit. He makes us all feel a little bit foolish. He touches our cherished pretenses, he shows up our inconsistencies, he assumes to have no reverence for our gods. But he is not always grinning. He is serious and wise, and like the fools of Shakespeare, has many half sad, even half mad things to say, so that he sets us wondering why he should be jester at all."