Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman
PRIESTHOOD CONVENTIONS
To be held in connection with quarterly conferences during the months of January, February and March, 1926.
Beginning in January, 1926, Priesthood Conventions will be held throughout the Church. In connection with them, the women of the auxiliary organizations?Relief Society, Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, Primary Association, and women supervisors and principals of the Religion Classes?have been invited also to hold special sessions. The stake presidency is to appoint the presiding officer and also a committee representing the organizations concerned, to make assignment of the topics.
Following is the program arranged for these meetings:
MORNING SESSION 10:00 a. m. Meeting of Stake and Ward Executive Officers (only) of Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A., Primary Association, and Women Supervisors and Principals of Religion Classes
Opening Exercises to be held conjointly with the Priesthood. Prayer.
I. Co-operation of Women's Auxiliaries in:
1. Supporting the Priesthood (5 minutes).
2. Promoting sympathetic interest among the women of the organization (5 minutes).
3. Supporting organization programs (15 minutes): A. Relief Society. B. Y. L. M. I. A. C. Primary Association. D. Religion Class.
4. Raising the Standard of Class Work (10 minutes). A. Selection of class teachers. A. Looking to the needs of the organization and qualifications of the individuals. B. Bringing in new workers as class teachers. B. Supporting the Teacher-training movement. C. Emphasizing the importance of preparation.
5. Meeting the Problems that Lead to Juvenile Delinquency (15 minutes). A. By avoiding late hours. B. By providing suitable recreation.


C. By providing supervised recreation. D. By providing opportunities for a. Health. b. Education. c. Culture. d. Spiritual development.
II. Testimony Bearing (30 minutes).
Dismissal.
AFTERNOON SESSION 2:00 p. m. Meeting for All Women of the Stake
Opening Exercises.
I. Woman's Responsibility in Working for the Following Church Standards (30 Minutes): Reverence for sacred places and things; observance of family prayers; obedience to law; respect for authority; observance of the Sabbath day; attendance at Sacrament meetings; observance of the Word of Wisdom; observance of Fast day; payment of tithes and offerings; personal purity.
II. The Importance of Co-operation Among the Women of the Church in Maintaining These Standards:
1. In the home (10 minutes).
2. In the church (10 minutes).
3. In the community (10 minutes).
III. The Value of Bible Reading (20 Minutes): "Search the Scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me." John 5:39. Psalm 19:7-14.
1. What the Bible is: A. Word of God. (Deut. 31:9-13; 17:18-20; Book of Mormon, 1 Nephi, chapters 3, 4, and also 5:10-15.) B. Greatest book of literature extant. C. Inspiration of writers, poets and preachers. D. The one book (until the restoration of the gospel) to which all good Christians looked for comfort, for wisdom and for spiritual guidance.
2. The Value of Reading the Bible: A. Christ and his Apostles quoted from Old Testament. B. Bible brought about the Reformation. C. Convinced founders of our Church that the gospel was not upon the earth. D. Inspired boy Joseph Smith to seek the Lord in prayer (James 1:5).
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 37
Pocatello Stake.
Pocatello First Ward Relief Society boasts of an excellent choir which gives very efficient service and adds greatly to the interest of their meetings.
Northern States Mission.
A literary and musical program of unusual interest was given in Detroit, Michigan, Friday, October 23, under the auspices of the Relief Society and the Mutual Improvement Association of the Detroit Branch. Mr. Edgar A. Guest, the poet, whose work is known and appreciated by thousands, read a number of his compositions. He was assisted by Madam Hughes Thomas, who was in charge of an excellent musical program. Those present greatly appreciated the rare privilege of hearing the poems they so much admire given new force and meaning through the personal interpretation of the author himself. The purpose of the entertainment was to add to the building fund of the Detroit branch, and Mr. Guest's hearty response to aid in this cause was most gratifying to all. When Mr. Guest was approached regarding the matter he expressed his admiration and appreciation of President Heber J. Grant, his personal friend, and added that he would be very glad to give of his time and talent in the interest of the proposed new chapel for the Detroit branch.
Nebo Stake.
Mrs. Mary Stevens of Nebo stake has made an enviable record as a visiting Relief Society teacher, having served steadily for forty-three years. Her district was known as the west mountain district, which extended from the railroad south to Lake Shore.


For seven years Mrs. Stevens had charge of this district alone. The visits were made with horse and buggy, with Mrs. Stevens driving.
Twin Falls Stake.
The latest Relief Society conference was much appreciated in Twin Falls stake. The work emphasized by the General Board visitor on teachers' work, and work and business meetings, is being taken up throughout the stake. Ward conferences have been held in all the wards, with members of the stake board at all meetings.
Twin Falls First ward held a most interesting conference, September 13. A program emphasizing teachers' work, the work and business meeting, and welfare work was carried out. A special feature was the play "Out of Work" which was most successfully presented.
To increase the efficiency of the visiting teachers in the stake, a campaign is being started under the direction of the stake board. A pennant is to be given to the ward obtaining the highest percent of work accomplished under the following heads: Attendance at union meeting, attendance at work meeting, number visits made.
A nutrition class under the Agricultural Department of the state is being held in all the wards once a month. Here children are weighed and measured and a careful record kept in order to facilitate the follow-up work.
A teacher-training class is held in Twin Falls where two members from each ward attend to get instructions which they in turn give a class held in each ward.
Sevier Stake.
The class work in this stake is being carried on very efficiently due to the excellent class leaders. The stake has specialized during the year on 100% monthly teachers' visits. Some of the wards have reached this standard and the others are not far behind. The stake board plans carefully all work in advance and makes the visiting schedule for board members several months ahead.
The stake board holds a social annually for all Relief Society workers.
Raft River Stake.
A very successful health conference was held in this stake in August. The state field nurse, in company with the Relief Society stake social service leader, made all preliminary arrangements. Due to the scattered conditions it was thought advisable by the state doctor and the local doctor to hold a one-day conference in two different localities, rather than a two-day conference in one place. One hundred forty-three women and children were examined at the two conferences. The doctors and nurses were assisted with the weighing, measuring and recording by the president of the stake Relief Society, Mrs. Abbie C. Ottley, and the presidents
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 39
of the various ward Societies. Since the conference the field nurse has been back doing the follow-up work. She, in company with President Ottley and Mrs. Horne, has visited every home which had members who had been examined. The nurse expressed herself as being well pleased with the way mothers were following the doctors' instructions and the mothers expressed themselves as being thankful for this service.
ORGANIZATIONS AND REORGANIZATIONS
North Central States Mission.
Mrs. Harriet H. Allred has been appointed president of the Relief Society of the newly organized North Central States mission. She has in her mission seven organizations, all in a prosperous condition. Mrs. Allred is the wife of President J. G. Allred.
Hyrum Stake.
On Sunday, August 9, 1925, the presidency of the Relief Society of Hyrum stake was reorganized. Mrs. Lovisa H. Allen and Mrs. Elizabeth Critchlow were honorably released from their positions of president and counselor. Mrs. Allen and Mrs. Critchlow had worked together as president and counselor for twenty-two years, and under their faithful leadership, together with that of their co-workers, Relief Society work has grown and flourished in Hyrum stake. On August 25, the Relief Society workers of Hyrum stake entertained in honor of Mrs. Allen and Mrs. Critchlow and they were each presented with beautiful wrist watches.
The following were appointed as the new presidency: Mrs. Susan Nelson, president; Mrs. Emily O. Savage and Mrs. Hazel A. Peterson, counselors.
Gunnison Stake.
Due to change of residence from Gunnison stake, Mrs. Ida Swalberg has been honorably released from her position as president of the Relief Society of the stake. Mrs. Swalberg was capable and energetic and during her short term of office she established the Relief Society work on a sound basis. She leaves her old home community with the love and blessing of all of her Relief Society associates.
The new officers appointed for Gunnison stake are: Mrs. Amelia C. Larson, president; Mrs. Angie Willardsen and Mrs. Sylvia Metcalf, counselors; Mrs. Elvira Mellor, secretary-treasurer, and Mrs. Clara Bardsley, assistant secretary-treasurer.
Garfield Stake.
On August 30, 1925, the Garfield stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Sarah S. Larson and her associates were hon-


orably released, with deep appreciation for the excellent work they have accomplished in the Relief Society cause.
The following officers were sustained to fill the vacancies: Mrs. Irene N. Rowan, president; Mrs. Esther B. Mathews and Mrs. Fern Whittaker, counselors; Mrs. Katherine C. McKay, secretary-treasurer.
Liberty Stake.
The Liberty stake Relief Society was reorganized in September. Mrs. Myrtle Ballard Shurtliff, who has made an enviable reputation as a progressive and efficient stake president, asked to be released in order that she might give more time to the needs of her growing children, to whom she is ardently devoted. Mrs. Shurtliff also expressed the belief that for the good of the organization and for the good of the members, such positions should not be held indefinitely but should be passed around in order to give opportunity for a variety in leadership and for the development of the greatest possible number of workers.
In honor of Mrs. Shurtliff, the Relief Society women of Liberty stake attended the temple in a body, 357 strong, and gave service in the interest of her family. During the month of December a social was given in honor of Mrs. Shurtliff and her retiring board at the home of the new president, Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood, when a program was given and games played. Refreshments were served and appropriate gifts were made to the retiring officers.
The new presidency are: Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood, president; Mrs. Ida D. Rees and Mrs. Ruby W. Henderson, counselors. Mrs. Margaret M. Cannon was retained as secretary-treasurer.
But far on the depths there are billows That never shall break on the beach; And I have heard songs in the silence That never shall float into speech, And I have had dreams in the valley Too lofty for language to reach.
From "The Song of the Mystic." ?Father Ryan.
Guide Lessons for March
LESSON I
Theology and Testimony (First Week in March)
THE PROPHETS OF THE MOSAIC DISPENSATION
A. What is a Prophet?
Generally speaking a prophet is one who foretells, but from a theological point of view, a prophet is one who foretells by the direct power of God. His foretelling must be miraculous; i. e., based upon super-human aid. The Apostle Peter clearly points out that true prophecy is a gift to man, not something to be acquired as is the case with the astronomer, who by his observation and mathematical calculations can predict to the minute the time when a planet will be in a certain place. (See I Peter 1:21.)
B. Prophets, Seers and Revelators.
A prophet speaks or writes the future as God has decreed it. If he sees what he predicts he becomes a seer. Thus, all true prophets are revelators but not essentially seers. The seer may see into the past the present or the future and make no revelation of his vision. At the close of one of the greatest visions the seer was forbidden to write all that he had seen. (See Book of Mormon, I Nephi 14:28.)
One of the chief privileges of the revelator is that of giving doctrine or laws under the authority of God. As we have seen in a previous lesson, Moses was a prophet, seer and revelator, with the revelator function predominating, making him the great lawgiver. Samuel was a prophet and revelator to Eli. (See I Sam. 3:11-14.) The wide range of his visions as a seer has led to the belief that this gift was the most prominent in his life. (See I Sam. 9:7-15.) Amos appears to have been more of a prophet than a seer, and as a prophet he was terribly denunciative. (See Amos 3:1-2; 4:1-4.)
C. The Qualities of a True Prophet.
1. Righteousness.
2. Complete surrender to God (See Ezek. 2:1-7).
3. Fearless faithfulness (See Ezek. 3:17-21).


D. False Prophets.
There were imposters, not a few, who spoke in the name of the Lord as prophets. (See Jer. 29:8, 9, 21; 38:19.) These were theological imposters who studied the trend of public sentiment and made predictions which they thought would give them public preference. They used the name of the Lord while possessed with the spirit of the evil one. With them it was not a question of the will of the Lord but of the wish of the people. That these emissaries of the evil one were objects of denunciation by the true prophets is shown in Jeremiah 29:8, 9, 21, and that they had influence with kings, in Jeremiah 37:19.
The qualities of these false prophets were:
1. Alertness.
2. Dexterity in deception.
3. Audacity in assumption of authority. (See Micah 3:5-11.)
E. Some of the Prophets Closely Related to Our Dispensation:
1. By Their Words: Job: "For I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth." (Job 19:25.)
Daniel: "And in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed: and the kingdom shall not be left to another people." (Dan. 2:44.)
Micah: "But in the last days it shall come to pass, that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the top of the mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills; and people shall flow unto it. And many nations shall come, and say, come, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for the law shall go forth of Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. And he shall judge among many people, and rebuke strong nations afar off; and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruninghooks: nation shall not lift up a sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more." (See Micah 4:1-3.)
2. By Their Works, as Messengers from Heaven. (a) Moses, (b) Elias, (c) Elijah. Each of these had his definite mission. (See D. & C. 110.)
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Give evidence that a true prophet is more than a person who truly foretells the future.
2. Distinguish between the gift of a seer and that of a revelator.
3. Prove that Samuel's prophecies never failed, and tell why. (See I Sam. 3:18, 19.)
4. What part of Micah 4:1, 2, 3 has been fulfilled? What