GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 43
part is being fulfilled and what part is still awaiting fulfilment? 5. Discuss the characteristics of the false prophets of the Mosaic Dispensation. 6. Wherein does Daniel 2:44 give assurance that the young people of this Church will not fail in their faith nor in their works? 7. What specific work of (a) Moses, (b) Elias, (c) Elijah, makes each of them closely related to us? 8. How many of the thirty nine books of the Old Testament are named after prophets?
Work and Business
TEACHER'S TOPIC FOR MARCH HOME
Make the home beautiful, O, let the sweetest flow'rs Blossom where the lov'd ones pass away the many hours. Make the home beautiful, make it pleasant and fair. Beautify, beautify, let your heav'n be there. ?Evan Stephens.
Some things that make a home beautiful: a. Cleanliness and order both of the inside and outside surroundings. b. Flowers in the garden and in the house. c. Lawn, vines, trees and shrubs. d. Paint. e. Absence of flies.
What a beautiful home means to the individuals in the home and to the community. A. Effect of beauty, cleanliness on character. B. Civic pride in homes. C. Favorable impressions made by well kept homes.
A home does not need to be expensive in order to be beautiful. A humble cottage well kept with fresh curtains and blossoming flowers radiates the true spirit of home.
It is suggested that teachers be prepared with names of flowers that will bloom each month in the flower season, to give to those they visit.


LESSON III
Literature (Third Week in March)
MARK TWAIN?LESSON II
The Innocents Abroad, one of Mark Twain's travel books, is characteristic of the great American humorist. Much of his humor results from what was very largely, at his time, an American point of view relative to Europe. While what he says is in no way complimentary to the intelligence of the American people, it is at least sincere and free from hypocrisy, although at times it is woefully extravagant. His extravagance, however, is entirely fitting, because it is one of the devices he uses to create humor. Another device frequently used by Mark Twain for humorous effect is that of contrast. Rome is pretty generally conceded to be the most interesting city in the world, yet this is what Mark Twain writes about it:
"What is it that confers the noblest delight? What is that which swells a man's breast with pride above that which any other experience can bring him? Discovery! To know that you are walking where none others have walked; that you are beholding what human eye has not seen before; that you are breathing a virgin atmosphere. To give birth to an idea?to discover a great thought?an intellectual nugget, right under the dust of a field, to invent a new hinge, to find the way to make the lightning carry your messages. To be the first?that is the idea. To do something, say something, see something, before anybody else?these are the things that confer a pleasure compared with which other pleasures are tame and commonplace, other ecstasies cheap and trivial. Morse, with his first message, brought by his servant, the lightning; Fulton, in that long drawn century of suspense, when he placed his hand upon the throttle-valve, and lo, the steamboat moved; Jenner, when his patient, with the cow's virus in his blood, walked through the small-pox hospitals unscathed; Howe, when the idea shot through his brain that for a hundred and twenty generations the eye had been bored through the wrong end of the needle; the nameless lord of art who laid down his chisel in some old age that is forgotten now, and gloated upon the finished Laocoon; Daguerre, when he commanded the sun, riding in the zenith, to print the landscape upon his insignificant silvered plate, and he obeyed; Columbus, in the Pinta's shrouds, when he swung his hat above a fabled sea and gazed abroad upon an unknown world! These are the men who have really lived?who have actually comprehended what pleasure is? who have crowded long lifetimes of ecstasy into a single moment. "What is there in Rome for me to see that others have not GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 45 seen before me? What is there for me to touch that others liave not touched? What is there for me to feel, to learn, to hear, to know, that shall thrill me before I pass to others? What can I discover? Nothing. Nothing whatsoever. One charm of travel dies here. But if I were only a Roman. If, added to my own I could be gifted with modern Roman sloth, modern Roman superstition, and modern Roman boundlessness of ignorance, what bewildering worlds of unsuspected wonders I would discover! Ah, if I were only a habitant of the Campagna five and twenty miles from Rome! Then I would travel.: "I would go to America, and see, and learn, and return to the Campagna and stand before my countrymen an illustrious discoverer. I would say: "I saw there a country which has no overshadowing Mother Church, and yet the people survive. I saw a government which never was protected by foreign soldiers at a cost greater than that required to carry on the government itself. I saw common men and common women who could read; I even saw small children of common country people reading from books; if I dared think you would believe it, I would say they could write, also. In the cities I saw people drinking a delicious beverage made of chalk and water, but never once saw goats driven through their Broadway or their Pennsylvania avenue or their Montgomery street and milked at the doors of the houses. I saw real glass windows in the houses of even the commonest people. Some of the houses are not of stone, nor yet of bricks; I solemnly swear they are made of wood. Houses there will take fire and burn, sometimes?actually burn entirely down, and not leave a single vestige behind. I could state that for a truth, upon my death-bed. And as a proof that the circumstance is not rare, I aver that they have a thing which they call a fire-engine, which vomits forth great streams of water, and is kept always in readiness, by night and by day, to rush to houses that are burning. You would think one engine would be sufficient, but some great cities have a hundred; they keep men hired and pay them by the month to do nothing but put out fires. For a certain sum of money other men will insure that your house shall not burn down; and if it burns they will pay you for it. There are hundreds and thousands of schools, and anybody may go and learn to be wise, like a priest. In that singular country, if a rich man dies a sinner, he is damned; he cannot buy salvation with - money for masses. There is really not much use in being rich, there. Not much use as far as the other world is concerned, but much, very much use, as concerns this; because there, if a man be rich, he is very greatly honored, and can become a legislator, a governor, a general, a senator, no matter how ignorant an ass he is?just as in our beloved Italy, the nobles hold all the great places, even though sometimes. They are born noble idiots. There. 
 if a man be rich, they give him costly presents, they ask him to feasts, they invite him to drink complicated beverages; but if he be poor and in debt, they require him to do that which they term to 'settle. The women put on a different dress almost every day; the dress is usually fine, but absurd in shape; the very shape and fashion of it changes twice in a hundred years; and did I but covet to be called an extravagant falsifier, I would say it changed even oftener. Hair does not grow upon the American women's heads; it is made for them by cunning workmen in the shops, and is curled and frizzled into scandalous and ungodly forms. Some persons wear eyes of glass which they see though with facility perhaps, else they would not use them; and in. The mouths of some are teeth made by the sacriligious hand of man. The dress of the men is laughably grotesque. They carry no musket in ordinary life, nor no long pointed pole; they wear no wide, zreen-lined cloak; they wear no peaked black felt hat, no leathern gaiters reaching to the knee, no goatskin breeches with the hair side out, no hobnailed shoes, no prodigious spurs. They wear a conical hat termed a 'nail-keg;' a coat of saddest black; a shirt which shows dirt so easily that it has to be changed every month, and is very troublesome; things called pantaloons, which are held up by shoulder straps, and on their feet they wear boots which are ridiculous in pattern and can stand no wear. Yet dressed in this fantastic garb, these people laughed at my costume, In that country, books are so common that it is really no curiosity to see one. Newspapers also. They have a great machine which prints such things by thousands every hour." Speaking of the people of Portugal, Mark Twain has the following to say: "The good Catholic Portuguese crossed himself and prayed God to shield him from all blasphemous desire to know more than his father did before him. The climate is mild; they never have snow or ice, and I saw no chimneys in the town. The donkeys and the men, women and children of a family, all eat and sleep in the same room, and are unclean, are ravaged by vermin, and are truly happy. The people lie and cheat the stranger, and are desperately ignorant, and have hardly any reverence for their dead. The latter trait shows how little better they are than the donkeys they eat and sleep with. The only well-dressed Portuguese in the camp are the half dozen well-to-do families, the Jesuit priests, and the soldiers of the little garrison." As a goodly number of people have no doubt seen the moving picture entitled "The Hunchback of Notre Dame," we shall include part of Mlark Twain's description of that church: "We loitered through the grand aisles for an hour or two, staring up at the rich stained-glass windows embellished with blue GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 47 and yellow and crimson saints and martyrs, and trying to admire the numberless great pictures in the chapels, and then we were admitted to the sacristy and shown the magnificent robes which the Pope wore when he crowned Napoleon I; a wagon-load of solid gold and silver utensils used in the great public processions and ceremonies of the church; some nails of the true cross, a fragment of the cross itself, a part of the crown of thorns. We had already seen a large piece of the true cross in a church in the Azores, but no nails. They showed us likewise the bloody robe which that Archbishop of Paris wore who exposed his sacred person and braved the wrath of the insurgents of 1848, to mount the barricades and hold aloft the olive branch of peace in the hope of stopping the slaughter. His noble effort cost hitn his life. He was shot dead. They showed us a cast of his face, taken after death, the bullet that killed him, and the two vertebre in which it lodged. These people have a somewhat singular taste in the matter of relics. Ferguson told us that the silver cross which the good archbishop wore at his girdle was siezed and thrown into the Seine, where it lay embedded in the mud for fifteen years, and then an angel appeared to a priest and told him where to dive for it; he did dive for it and got it, and now it is there on exhibition at Notre Dame, to be inspected by anybody who feels an interest in inanimate objects of miraculous intervention." One feels little of the architectural majesty of this building or the wonderful story told through the art of sculpture, in its facades that form the front of this truly glorious church, in Mark Twain's description. He was not interested in that; his aim was to ridicule shams, and I think we shall all agree that he succeeded. Nevertheless, we have one truly serious book from the pen of Mark Twain as a result of his travels in Europe. It is Joan of Arc. The author calls it a free translation out of the ancient French into modern English from the original unpublished manuscript in the national archives of France by Jean Francois Alden. At this point in the lesson we shall include the account of Joan's first appearance before the Dauphin, later crowned king at Rheims. A plan had been devised to trick her. One of the nobles had been sent to the throne and the king retained among the courtiers: "All that host had been consumed with curiosity to see what Joan would do. Well, they had seen, and now they were full of astonishment to see that she had really performed that strange miracle according to the promise in her letter; and they were fully as much astonished to find that she was not overcome by the pomps and splendors about her, but was even more tranquil and at her ease in holding speech with a monarch than ever they themselves had been, with all their practice and experience. As for our two knights, they were inflated beyond measure 
 with pride in Joan, but nearly dumb, as to speech, they not being able to think out any way to account for her managing to carry herself through this imposing ordeal without ever a mistake or an awkwardness of any kind to mar the grace and credit of her great performance. The talk between Joan and the King was long, and earnest, and held in low voices. We could not hear, but we had our eyes and could note effects; and presently we and all the house noted one effect which was memorable and striking, and has been set down in memoires and histories in testimony at the Process of Rehabilitation by some who witnessed it; for all knew it was big with meaning, though none knew what that meaning was at that time, of course. For suddenly we saw the king shake off his indolent attitude and straighten up like a man, and at the same time look immeasurably astonished. It was as if Joan had told him something almost too wonderful for belief, and yet of a most uplifting and welcome nature. "It was long before we found out the secret of this conversation, but we know it now, and all the world knows it. That part of the talk was like this?as one may read in all histories. The perplexed King asked Joan for a sign. He wanted to believe in her and her mission, and that her Voices were supernatural and endowed with knowledge hidden from mortals, but how could he do this unless these Voices could prove their claim in some absolutely unassailable way? It was then that Joan said? "I will give you a sign, and: you shall no more doubt. There is a secret trouble in your heart which you speak of to none?a doubt which wastes: away your courage, and makes you dream of throwing all away and fleeing from your realm. Within this little while you have been praying, in your own breast, that God of his grace would resolve that doubt, even if the doing of it must show you that no kingly right is lodged in: you. "It was that that amazed the King, for it was as she had said: his prayer was the secret of his own breast, and none but God could know about it. So he said: "The sign is sufficient. I know, now, that these Voices are of God.,; They have said true in this matter; if they have said more, tell it me?I will believe. "They have resolved that doubt, and I bring their very words, which are these: Thou art lawful heir to the King thy father, and-true heir of France. God has spoken it. Now lift up thy head and doubt no more, but give me men-at-arms and let me get about my work. "Telling him he was of lawful birth was what straightened him up and made a man of him for a moment, removing his doubts upon that head and convincing him of his royal right; and if any GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 49 could have hanged his hindering: and pestiferous council and set him free, he would have answered Joan's prayer and set her in the field. But no, those creatures. Were only checked, not checkmated; they could invent some more delays. "We had been made proud by the honors which had so distinguished Joan's entrance into that place?honors restricted to personages of very high rank and worth?but: that pride was as nothing compared with the pride we had in the honor done her upon leaving it. For: whereas those first honors were shown only to the great, these last, up to this time, had been shown only to the royal. The King himself led Joan by the hand down the great hall to the door, the glittering multitude standing and making reverence as they passed, and the silver trumpets sounding 'those rich notes of theirs. Then he dismissed her with gracious words, bending low over 'her hand and kissing it. Always?from all companies, high or low?she went forth richer in honor and esteem than when she came. "And the King did another handsome thing by Joan, for he sent us back to Courdray Castle torch-lighted and in state, under escort of his own troops? his guard of honor?the only soldiers he-had; and finely equipped and bedizened they were, too, though they hadn't seen the color of their wages since they were children, as a body might say. The wonders which Joan had been performing before the King had been carried all around by this time, 'so the road was so packed with people who wanted to get a sight of her that we could hardly dig through; and as for talking together, we couldn't, all attempts at talk being drowned in the storm of shoutings and huzzas that broke out all along as we passed, and kept abreast of us like a wave the whole way." After Joan had freed her country and placed the crown upon the King's head in the cathedral at Rheims, the clergy became jealous of her, in consequence of which she was tried as a heretic, an apostate and an idolator, and burned: at the stake_without any help from the King whom she had befriended in such magnificent fashion. We shall include the: account, as given by Mark Twain, of the message of her death: "We stood silent awhile, but she was still unconscious of us, still deep in her sad musings and far away. Then Martin Ladvenu said, softly?
"Joan."
She looked up then, with a little start, and a wan smile, and said?
"Speak. Have you a message for me?"
"Yes, my poor child. Try to bear it. Do you think you can bear it?"
"Yes"?very softly, and her head drooped again.
"I am come to prepare you for death."


A faint shiver trembled through her wasted body. There was a pause. In the stillness we could hear our breathings. Then she said, still in that low voice?
"When will it be?"
The muffled notes of a tolling bell floated to our ears out of the distance.
"Now. The time is at hand."
That slight shiver passed again.
"It is so soon?ah, it is so soon!"
There was a long silence. The distant throbbings of the bell pulsed through it, and we stood motionless and listening. But it was broken at last?
"What death is it?"
"By fire!"
"Oh, I knew it, I knew it!" She sprang wildly to her feet and wound her hands in her hair, and began to writhe and sob, oh, so piteously, and mourn and grieve and lament, and turn to first one and then another of us, and search our faces beseechingly, as hoping she might find help and friendliness there, poor thing?she that had never denied these to any creature, even her wounded enemy on the battle-field. "Oh, cruel, cruel, to treat me so! And must my body, that has never been defiled, be consumed to-day and turned to ashes? Ah, sooner would I that my head were cut off seven times than suffer this woeful death. I had the promise of the church's prison when I submitted, and if I had but been there, and not left here in the hands of my enemies, this miserable fate had not befallen me. Oh, I appeal to God the Great Judge, against the injustice which has been done me."
There was none there that could endure it. They turned away, with tears running down their faces. In a moment I was on my knees at her feet. At once she thought only of my danger, and bent and whispered in my ear:
"Up!?do not peril yourself, good heart. There?God bless you always!" and I felt the quick clasp of her hand. Mine was the last hand she touched with hers in life. None saw it; history does not know of it or tell of it, yet it is true, just as I have told it. The next moment she saw Cauchon coming, and she went and stood before him and reproached him, saying?
"Bishop, it is by you that I die?"
He was not shamed, not touched; but said, smoothly?
"Ah, be patient, Joan. You die because you have not kept your promise, but have returned to your sins."
"Alas," she said, "if you had put me in the Church's prison and given me right and proper keepers, as you promised, this would not have happened. And for this I summon you to answer before God!"
Having given you two important quotations from Mark
GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 51
Twain, we include a statement found on one of the fly-leaves of the volume from Louis Kossuth: "Consider this unique and imposing distinction. Since the writing of human history began, Joan of Arc is the only person, of either sex, who has ever held supreme command of the military forces of a nation at the age of seventeen."
Also a paragraph from the translator, Entitled "A Peculiarity of Joan of Arc's History": "The details of the life of Joan of Arc form a biography which is unique among the world's biographies in one respect: It is the only story of a human life which comes to us under oath, the only one which comes to us from the witness-stand. The official records of the Great Trial of 1431, and of the Process of Rehabilitation of a quarter of a century later, are still preserved in the National Archives of France, and they furnish with remarkable fulness the facts of her life. The history of no other life of that remote time is known with either the certainty or the comprehensiveness that attaches to hers.
"The Sieur Louis de Conte is faithful to her official history in his Personal Recollections, and thus far his trustworthiness is unimpeachable; but his mass of added particulars must depend for credit upon his own word alone."
It is a well known fact that Mark Twain valued very greatly his translation of Joan of Arc, and also that he was very greatly interested in her as an historical character. It is said that he attended a production of Joan of Arc in which Margaret Anglin took the title role. At the close of the performance he made his way to her dressing room, and in a state of great emotion complimented her highly for the spiritual tone of her production, exclaiming as he did so, "I really believe she heard Voices."
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Give an example from Mark Twain of humor produced through extravagance.
2. Give an example of humor produced through contrast.
3. Let each member of the class bring to the class a brief statement from the pen of Mark Twain that interests her personally. It may be an example of his humor or it may be from his more serious writings.


LESSON IV
Social Service (Fourth Week in March)
CHILD WELFARE PHYSICAL PROBLEMS (CONTINUED) CASE STUDIES
Two physical problems of childhood that are not infrequently encountered are discussed in the case studies of the two girls Emily and Carmela. The histories, as presented in the text, give only a summary of the problems presented, and the author's comments on their significance and treatment. It undoubtedly will be of interest to those not familiar with the workings of a Behavior Clinic to have an insight into its operations and some knowledge of the procedure employed in gathering the information that the psychiatrist must have to interpret and treat the problems that the different children present.
These clinics, where children who present behavior problems are analyzed, are a recent development. They are known by various names?Habit Clinics, Behavior Clinics, Child Guidance Bureaus, Mental Hygiene Clinics, etc. The staff usually consists of at least a physician, a psychological examiner, a social worker, and a psychiatrist. The psychiatrist is the head of the clinic and the other professional workers contribute their findings to the psychiatrist, who interprets this material in connection with his study of the individual.
The child may be brought to the clinic by his parents, or he may be referred by his school teacher, by a nurse, by a physician, or by a social worker. A study is then made of the physical and mental make-up and social life of the child. The social worker perhaps makes her study first. She gathers the history of the child's development and its present environmental conditions. She visits the home, observes the neighborhood and home standards, gathers the physical history as related by the family of the heredity, the child's development, (age of walking, talking, dentition, childhood diseases, etc.), the present health and the hygienic standards of the home. She learns, too, something of the family's emotional attitude towards the child, for often abnormal childhood behavior is the result of unwholesome attitudes within the family group. The social worker, too, secures the school's report of the child's progress and conduct.
With the social worker's report before him, the physician makes a careful examination. The examination is a thorough one, and frequently physical defects, not even suspected by the family, are discovered and reveal the cause of abnormal behavior of the child.
A psychological examiner, on one or more occasions, makes
GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 53
a study of the child's mental ability. He uses standard psychometric tests, which when properly given and interpreted can give an insight into the child's inherent ability, and discloses the types of performances at which he is especially weak or especially able.
The psychiatrist makes his own analysis of the child's emotional and psychic life and relates this to the findings of the other reports. The studies as they appear in the text are brief summaries of the psychiatrist's interpretation of all of the material.
A knowledge of the characteristics of the cretin type represented by Emily, is important to all parents, teachers and persons dealing with children. There are not great numbers of pure cretins, although every worker with children occasionally meets the type. If the cretin does not receive early medication, he always remains as helpless and burdensome as an infant. These helpless children are frequently placed in institutions as it is almost impossible to bear the burden of their care in a home. The recent discovery of medication, effective if given early, makes the future of the cretin much more helpful. If early and continuous treatment is applied, these sluggish and retarded individuals do attain a limited development. Because Emily received the proper medication from the time she was eight months old, she reached a state of usefulness and will perhaps even be able to make her own livelihood.
While there are not a great number of cretins?individuals whose thyroid gland fails to develop?there are many persons who are affected by either the over (hyper), or under (hypo) activity of the thyroid gland. The causes for glandular disturbance may be some hereditary factor or some chemical disturbance of the body. Some authorities contend that glandular upsets may be the result of some emotional experience or emotional strain and the upset in the glandular functioning continues after the emotional stress has been removed. The hyper-thyroid type is nervous, excitable, has a high pulse, and the energy of the body is literally burned away. The treatment applied tends to check the over activity of the gland. The hypo-thyroid individual has a low pulse, is easily fatigued, is retarded and slow mentally and physically. These individuals are given the substance of thyroid gland artificially, and normal alertness and energy frequently follows. Treatment in either case should be under the close direction of a physician.
The six year old Carmela presents a very common childhood problem. Enuresis (bedwetting) has distressed many parents and has brought much unhappiness to the victims. A keen embarrassment is felt by the afflicted child and he is often punished and ridiculed by his family and playmates. Recently a young boy refused to go on a camping trip with his playmates and later would not join a boys' club that hiked and participated in regular boy sports. While he was a bright,


likeable boy, he became more and more aloof, spending most of his time in morbid brooding by himself. It was not until the club organizer learned from his mother, who also was diffident in discussing the boy's condition, that he had never acquired control of the bladder, that the boy's behavior could be understood.
The author points out that neither punishment nor medicine is the treatment usually needed. Punishment adds to the child's humiliation and lessens his confidence to acquire correct habits. Drugs are not needed in the majority of cases, and when applied is perhaps only an incident in the successful treatment.
The control of this reflex action (reflex action is any purely spontaneous action) must first be a conscious performance. Just as in learning to walk, which also later becomes an automatic process, the higher brain centers function until it becomes an automatic action. The lower brain centers then control these automatic performances. Until the habit is fixed (or the neuron pattern established) conscious effort is needed to "condition" or control the spontaneous reflex.
Our author suggests that the child should be assisted in establishing this control early?soon after birth. If an older child presents this problem, some motive should be given him (such as a desire to be normal and strong) and confidence be implanted. The encouragement a child needs to make a conscious effort to establish correct habits can be given by a parent as well as a physician.
It is interesting to note that the author treats enuresis in a different manner when it is accompanied by thumb-sucking or nail-biting. These habits are considered as associated infantile habits or "fixations" and the conscious control of one will bring with it the control of the others. The child is, therefore, assisted in overcoming the simpler and more obvious habit, either the nail-biting or thumb-sucking, and in most cases control of enuresis accompanies the control of the other habit.
Children who are mentally defective are frequently troubled with enuresis. It is naturally more difficult for a retarded child to obtain conscious control of any action. Enuresis, alone, does not indicate retardation but if accompanied by late talking and walking, there is then a suggestion of general backwardness.
The author states that he never considers enuresis as an isolated ailment, to be treated as a single factor. It is, rather, a symptom of illness, or nervous instability, or has some psychic origin. If proper habits are not formed at the usual age, which is between eighteen months and two years, and the efforts of the parents to assist the child in establishing control do not meet with success, the child deserves the attention of a physician or psychiatrist.
Reference: The Challenge of Childhood, by Dr. Ira S. Wile, pages 24 to 32.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 55
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. What is the function of a Habit Clinic?
2. Name the usual members of the staff and what contribution each makes.
3. What is a cretin?
4. How is cretinism treated?
5. What is the difference in both type and treatment of hyper-thyroid and hypo-thyroid individuals?
6. What is enuresis and why is it a serious problem of childhood?
7. What treatment does the author suggest?
8. Why are punishment and medicine not effective treatment?