[Vol31 | May 1944 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Editorial | Title: Women Sharp]

ANNE O'HARE MCCORMICK, who as a member of the editorial board of the New York Times helps to shape the policies of that eminent newspaper, is one of the few successful women foreign correspondents in America. She has met, interviewed, and written about Mussolini, Hitler, Neville Chamberlain, Winston Churchill, and President Roosevelt. N Great Britain, Ninette de Valois, English choreographer, is largely responsible for the transition of ballet from Russian to English direction. At the death of the great Russian master, Serge Diagheliv, people felt that ballet in Britain was doomed. But with some others, Ninette, one of Diagheliv's stars, stepped into the breach. The English girl introduced ballet into the Sadler's Wells Opera House in London, where it soon vied in popularity with the operas. Even under war conditions, the high artistic quality of the ballet has not deteriorated. Two of Miss de Valois' outstanding successes are based on Biblical themes, "Job" and "The Creation of the World." (Britain Today, February.) Page 269 


Vol. 31 May 1944 No. 5 Women Courageous AS the war continues, ever increasing in magnitude and intensity as the months advance, there will come in its wake, more and more to the women of the Church, sorrow and grief, as death deprives them of
future association with loved ones in this life. It is then, especially, that Church members feel blessed in the testimony of the Gospel they possess which includes the sure knowledge of a reunion with the departed in the life hereafter, and a continuance of family relationships as they have been sealed upon recipients. Even with this assurance, however, the days, months, and
years seem to stretch ahead bleak and lonely, and one knows that there will come times when the separation will seem one not to be borne. It is an inspiration, in such circumstances, to observe the courage and fortitude manifested by some women. Difficult as it always is for the bereaved to face friendly and loving
sympathy, some women seem to draw upon a Power beyond themselves and continue outwardly to lead a normal life in spite of the heartbreak and anguish which dwell within. Through service, their own pain becomes more bearable, and
their deportment serves as a beacon of encouragement to others borne down with grief. Recently, the mother of a boy who had just a few days previously been reported killed in action, was in a temple seeking to master her own sorrow while she opened wide the gates of the kingdom to a fellow woman. Another woman, a devoted wife who has lost her husband, seeks to fill some of her empty hours by renewed participation in Church activities, thus setting an example to any woman
who may meet with a like loss. The righteous have always been called upon to suffer along with the unrighteous. A benediction falls upon the heads of the righteous who bear their grief uncomplainingly, acknowledging the wisdom of the
Lord in all things. Of such strength and endurance were the pioneer women who bravely journeyed onward, ministering to others, although their thoughts were fixed on a lonely grave forever left behind in an unmarked spot. Upheld by a faith stronger than the bonds of death, may Church women today carry on
?continuing to give and to accept from life the full measure of life's experiences, realizing, through their grief, that life is good, and that "men
are, that they might have joy." A withdrawal into oneself, blinded by grief, there to dwell in solitude and darkness alone, is not in accordance with the beliefs of Latter-day Saints. A short time of trial, a mingling of happiness and sorrow fully accepted and rightly lived, will lead to an eternity of joy in the hereafter, forever gladdened by the presence of the righteous.