[Vol31 | May 1944 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: The Rock and the River Poulsen]
The Rock and the River Ezra J. Poulsen PART THREE THE course of events moved quietly on the Mansfield farm during the rest of the summer. With Jack in the army and Bonnie spending much of her time in the field with her father, there was little inclination and less time for recreation.
There was more comfort in working from dawn till dark. At least this gave the satisfaction of being helpful in producing food for the workers at home, and for the boys in the camps.
Above all, the Mansfields found comfort in faith.
Always deeply religious, they, nevertheless, like millions of others, sought to get closer to their Creator in this moment of national and personal trial. "If Jack only comes through safely," said Julia, "I'll never quit thanking the Lord." "And if he doesn't?" remarked John, recalling casualties already announced in their own county. "If he doesn't, I?I'll know the Lord had work for him elsewhere," she replied with a great effort.
Bonnie carried on her own personal battle alone. Her disappointment at not seeing Dale when he passed through Hathaway was mild in comparison with her disappointment in having his letters suddenly stop. She had written explaining the change in her plans and urging him to send his letters directly to the farm. She had received one after he had reached his primary flying field, then silence. At first, her daily trip down to the post office just before supper was a brief respite filled with expectancy and hope; but finally it became a rite presaged with dread and fear. At last, when she could stand it no longer, she ran into her room, threw herself across her bed, and broke into tears. Mrs.
Mansfield went out and helped her husband with the milking without disturbing her, after which she went quietly into the darkened room and sat down by her daughter. "Don't take it too hard,' she coaxed. "If he doesn't think enough of you to write, the sooner you can forget, the better." "Mother," she sobbed, "I don't believe he's changed. Something's happened to him. I know it has." "Well, Dear, if you feel that way, try to be patient. I'm sure you'll learn the truth, whatever it is." "I've had one letter since I came home.
That shows he's not angry because I didn't meet him when he came through Hathaway." "When he came through??" Mrs.
Mansfield was bewildered.
Bonnie sat up and wiped her eyes. "I didn't intend to tell you. I'm sorry. But he was coming through in a few days, and I was to meet him." Mrs.
Mansfield was quick to see the new angle. "Why, I?we | shouldn't have hurried you away under those conditions," she Page 283 284 declared. "When will we ever stop bungling. Bonnie, why didn't you tell us?" she cried anxiously. "I?I didn't want to cause you any more trouble." "Well, I declare."
Julia very seldom lost her composure, but for once she felt she herself was suffering from a bad case of jitters. "Now, we have that to worry about.
Maybe we did the wrong thing. Oh, I wish I had known you were expecting him. The way it looks to me now, you should have seen him when he came through Hathaway by all means.
Very likely you would have both decided you were not meant for each other, and you could have parted friends, and let it go at that. Now, if this turns out bad, we'll blame ourselves. And it's going to take you twice as long to get over it."
Julia hurried away to hide her own tears. "Oh my, I wonder if he has been hurt," she worried later, when she explained the situation to her husband. "The whole affair is turning out about as I expected," he declared. "The sooner she forgets him, the better."
Julia avoided a direct reply to this. She observed a note of triumphant hardness in his voice, and with womanly tact decided to avoid an argument. But as the days went by, she found little ways of making Bonnie's work easier, and of keeping her cheerful.
Almost to her own amazement, she began to hope that Dale Weyman would prove to be the right man for Bonnie. She hoped it because of her husband's stubborn opposition; she hoped it because Dale had impressed her as being a young man of fine quality, in spite of their short acquaintance;  finally, she hoped it because she was a romantic idealist: she didn't believe a girl ever really lost her heart until the right man appeared. By September, the big brown haystacks back of the Mansfield barn, together with the straw pile fresh from the blower of the threshing machine, gave evidence of the hard work of the family. Both Julia and Bonnie laughed' at each other's tanned faces and calloused hands; and John, who was rather a severe taskmaster, both in what he demanded of himself and what he expected of others, drew an arm affectionately around each. "Well, the heaviest part of the work's done," he declared. "Thanks to the best help a man ever had. Now, if Jack could only come home for a few days, we'd celebrate." "Let's celebrate right now by going down to see if there's a letter from him," challenged Julia. "All right, and we'll drive over to the drugstore and get some of the biggest nut sundaes they ever made.
What do you say, Bonnie?" He put his finger under his daughter's chin, and looked into her troubled blue eyes. "Okay, Dad, I'll agree to eat my share." She turned away, and he felt that in spite of her weeks of loyal, patient behavior, she still held some resentment against him. "Bonnie, do you blame me for Weyman's failure to write?"
Bonnie winced. "No. No, of course not, Dad. In fact you were absolutely right about him, I wish I'd never seen him." Her words, he easily discerned, were too emotional to be convincing. Still, that afternoon when she ran out of the post office toward the car holding THE ROCK AND THE RIVER up a letter from Jack, her mood had completely changed. She was the picture of girlish enthusiasm.
