[Vol31 | May 1944 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: The Faith of Hughes]
THE FAITH OF MOTHERHOOD Ann Young Hughes Her window frames A golden star tonight, And valor wreaths a hero with its light. She marked the star That guided him from birth Through joyous years Of sweet disordered mirth, And does not cry Because he found a nobler way to die. Twin agonies of birth and death have swept All laughter from her lips, but she has kept The faith of motherhood, Because her son Competed for a golden star—and won. Lissa’s Song Mary Ek Knowles WHEN Lissa North walked up on Sharon's front porch, Sharon and Eunice quickly hid something behind them and sat very still on the porch swing, their faces flushed, eyes gazing at the ceiling. Then Sharon saw who it was. "Oh, it's only Lissa!" she laughed and brought out the vanity scarf
she had been embroidering. "We thought it was my mother. Eunice sighed with adult exasperation as she bent over the last rambler rose on a pillow case. Eunice was red-haired and thin-faced. She talked in a high shrill voice. “Tomorrow is Mother’s Day, and this my last chance we have to finish our mother’s presents…” Lissa saw Sharon nudge Eunice, but Eunice chattered on, " . . . have we had a time. To keep them from finding out, I mean. You know how
mothers are, Lissa, and ..."Lissa stood quite still before them, a slim, brown-eyed girl in a plaid dress, thick dark braids hanging down her back. Sudden remembering was a sharp pain that made her face go white beneath the sprinkling
of f reckles. Last year she had given mother a sampler. All done in cross stitch, God Bless Our Home. She had gone to grandmother's every day after school to work on it. Daddy had framed the sampler, and mother had hung it in her bedroom. ''I want to see it the minute I open my eyes," she had said, “It is so beautiful, Lissa!” Sharon took a cookie from the picket of her dress and held it out. Lissa read sympathy in her blue eyes. "Here's a cookie, Lissa. It's
got nuts in it.” Lissa siad, “Oh, thanks, Sharon!" She sank even white teeth into the cookie and it was like cotton in her mouth. "Are you going to sing in church tomorrow?" Eunice scarcely paused for breath between sentences, "Gee,
I wish I had a swell voice like yours. You can reach all the high notes. I can't even sing above E'. And you can hit high C just as easy. Which song are you going to sing, Lissa?" "I'm going to sing, 'Little Mother.' " Lissa thought, I must sing because I promised mother I would. But can I do it? Tomorrow she
would see the front benches filled with mothers all smiling and pretty in their new spring hats. Only her mother wouldn't he there. There would just be daddy sitting by himself. Would the notes stick in her throat! What if she should break down and cry before them all! Tomorrow was the day that was to have meant so much. "Mother, they have asked me to sing a solo for Mother's Day program,"
