[Vol31 | May 1944 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year]
building, when, suddenly, they would come upon a quiet group, craning forward with intense interest, absorbed in their eager listening to a youthful voice, speaking in terms of authority and of deep learning and wisdom; and as they came to the group, the searchers were "amazed," for there in the midst of the doctors was Jesus whom they had sought for three long, anxious days— "amazed" at finding Him in this place, in this company, in this relationship to the learned and mighty ones of the nation. 241/The Temple, pp.30, 136. 242/Farrar, p. 470. 243/Andrews, p. 512; Edersheim II, p. 553 ff.
256 
Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? Behold, thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing. And he said unto them, How is it that about my Father's business?—Luke 2:48-49.
257 MY FATHER'S BUSINESS The Sacred Record does not tell us of the subjects the doctors discussed with Jesus; it merely says: "and all that heard him were astonished at his understanding and answers." But in the Apocryphal New Testament it is recorded that Jesus taught the "doctors and elders and learned men of Israel" concerning His Messiahship, "the books of the law, and precepts and statutes; and the mysteries which are contained in the books of the prophets; things which the mind of no creature could reach"; also concerning astronomy, physics, and natural philosophy, and metaphysics. But all this is tradition. But Joseph and Mary, coming thus suddenly upon Him, and seeing Him safe and well, had uppermost in their minds only a sense of overwhelming relief and __ gratitude, whetted by a resentment of their needless poignant anxiety and sorrow at His long absence, and so His mother, not Joseph, broke forth in such reproof as she could offer to the hitherto perfect Son: "Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? Behold, thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing." And the Son, unabashed, unchastised, unafraid, with the calm dignity of the divinity that was His, 244/ I Infancy 21:1 ff. 257 replied to this reproof with a question—in the after years of His ministry this answering a question by a question, was to be a favorite shield against His scheming, hypocritical inquisitors. 'To Mary the Mother He said: "How is it that ye sought me?
Wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?"
Then says the Record: "And they understood not the saying which he spake unto them." BUT we of today, with the history of the earthly ministry of Christ before us, in Palestine, and on _ this hemisphere, with the knowledge of His pre-mortal existence, and His post-mortal resurrected place and work, we may perceive, in part at least, the truths that lay in and behind these sayings. From Mary's statement "'thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing," we may glimpse that in the intimacies of the family circle at Nazareth, Jesus gave to Joseph the love and respect of a son, and called him father. But Jesus knew that Mary knew and that Joseph knew better than this, and so came the saying "wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?"
Some have judged these words as if falling from the lips of a wholly mortal child, and so have found in them a rebuke from the Son to His mother. But this could not be, for the Christ Child could not be unkind.
With divine knowledge and wisdom He brought in simple language to Joseph and to Mary the recollection that He was the Son of God, which, for the moment at least, seems to have Passed from their minds. 244/I Infancy 21:1 ff. BUT there was more in the saying than was known to Joseph and Mary.
There was the consciousness in Jesus not alone of who He was but of His mission here on earth. He knew that centuries before God had declared to Moses: "For behold, this is my work and my glory— to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man."' This was His ''Father's business/' and He "must be about it."
Thus there must have been before Him the whole divine design framed in the great Council in Heaven before the world was formed. He must have remembered when the hosts, gathered together in Heaven, determined: ''We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell;" —these children of God who were to take on mortality and "prove themselves" to see "if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them.” And if that recollection came, another would come also— that of the rival plans offered by Himself and Lucifer, a son of the morning, and the choice of His own plan. And then would surge up in His mind the recollection of the rebellion in Heaven, the casting out of Lucifer and his followers— a third of the hosts of Heaven, and the creation of the earth by Himself— for "In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made .... And the Word was made flesh , and dwelt among us He would remember the peopling of the earth, beginning with Adam, and Adam's Fall, and the need for an Atonement and a Redeemer of men from the mortal death of the Fall, and His own choice as this Redeemer, "the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world." He must have recollected the long course of God's dealings with His children, their waywardness, and proneness to evil, that they came "to be carnal, sensual and devilish.” He knew how the Father, through Himself, had sought to l)ring them to lives of righteousness, how He had through all the dispensations proclaimed the Gospel to men, how He had given them the law under which Judah and Joseph then lived— no wonder He astounded the doctors with His knowledge of the law. He knew, too, the work He was to do, He saw its problems, its hardships, its persecutions, and it must be His ultimate sacrifice. He seems to have been deeply touched by His visit to the Temple and His witnessing the rites and ceremonies typifying His own mission and destiny, by His observance of the hypocrisy and corruption of the priesthood, by His consciousness of how the people were misled to their condemnation, by His appreciation of how much there was to do and how little the time to do it— yet with all these things before Him, as it would seem 
245/ Moses 1:39. 246/ Abraham 3:24 ff. 247/ John 1:1-3, 14, 248/ Moses 7:47, 249/ Moses 5:13, MY FATHER'S BUSINESS they must have been, how careful and considerate, how dutiful He was, when to the trivial complaint (for trivial it was in view of all this) of His mother, He uttered the single sentence that proclaimed His divinity and His task—"wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?" But the divinity that was in Him, told Him also, under the spur of the mother's mild rebuke, that His time had not yet come, that there was mortal preparation for Himself yet to make, that the minds of men must be further ripened, both in sympathy for truth and in hatred for Him and love for the works of Satan, that the work of John the great Forerunner must yet be done that the hearts of men might be fallowed for the real beginning of His ministry. So "he went down with them, and came to Nazareth, and was subject unto them.".Again He became the dutiful Child obeying the behests of Joseph the carpenter,' until He, Himself, was also known as the Carpenter." But while Joseph and Mary "understood not the saying which he spake unto them," yet "his mother 259 kept all these sayings in her heart."
Years after, at the marriage feast in Cana, she showed she had come more to realize who He was, and His divine powers, for when they wanted wine she said unto the servants, after telling Jesus about it, "whatsoever he saith unto you, do it." So to Nazareth where the grain fields were now yellowed with ripened crops, the hills and valleys still covered with wild flowers; to Nazareth among the white rocks and cliffs splotched with green, with goats and sheep lazily grazing on the warm hillsides; to Nazareth with the houses climbing row on row up and out from the little valley floor, to the brink of the cliff from which His neighbors would one day seek to cast Him down; to Nazareth, quiet, unperturbed, with its slender cypresses and fig trees, and the evenness, frugality, and wholesomeness of a village life dominated by the presence of divinity—to this Nazareth came Joseph and Mary and Jesus who "increased in wisdom and stature, and in favour with God and man" against the day and hour of His destiny.