[Vol31 | May 1944 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Sisters Let Your Own Palmer]
The flowers at either side of the coat of arms are the Tudor rose of England and the daffodil of Wales? -the national flowers. The second figures down from the Page
279 REREAD LET YOUR OWN HANDS ADORN YOUR HOMES top represent a sailing vessel and an ox team.
These were the modes of travel by which both families came to Utah.
These figures stamp both families as pioneers. Unfortunately, the white does not show well in the photograph so the full symmetry of the sails on the vessel is not brought out.
Below the sailing vessel is the old Palmer home in Cedar City, and opposite that and under the ox team is the Isom home which was built down on the Virgin River.
After the families went through the first hard stages of pioneering, these were the first real homes they built in Zion.
Under the Palmer home stands the original Palmer with his staff and palms, dressed in the costume of the crusader.
Beside him is the typical Welsh grandmother with her aprons and high beaver hat.
Opposite these stands a musician waving his baton.
Beside him sits his wife, Ellen Douglas Parker. The Relief Society Magazine, February 1942, contains a letter that she had written in Nauvoo one hundred years before. When Heber C.
Kimball first carried the Gospel to England, he preached in a church in the little town of Clithero. John Parker was the choir leader in that church and he and every member of his choir were converted.
This man and woman were the grandparents of Mrs. Palmer.
Below the choir leader is a cart with a mule driven by a woman.
That woman was Alice Parker, a girl of fifteen, on her way to Dixie.
After the Civil War broke out, cotton could not be bought in the East but 28) it was very much needed in Utah.
Experiments proved that it could be grown in the valley of the Virgin River.
Colonists were then sent by the Church to go there and raise cotton. John Parker was one who was sent to Dixie. He loaded into the big wagon all the family effects that it would hold, but there were still the soap barrel and the tubs and buckets which must go, He owned a cart and a little mule and had a fifteen-year-old daughter who could drive the cart, so they loaded the unsightly cargo into it and Alice, the daughter, followed behind the big wagon. The mule was a friendly little creature that turned into every gate they passed and stopped for every boy who hollered "whoa." It was a great embarrassment to the girl and so the story lived and came down to her granddaughter Alice, who perpetuated it in the family panel.
Opposite the mule and cart is a man on a horse following a pack of hounds. He was Henry Thomas Rees, grandfather of the Palmers. He inherited some money in Wales, rode to the hounds, and followed the races all over England. One day he came home and told his wife that they were penniless. He had lost everything he owned. He was prepared to see her weep and storm, but instead, she calmly said, "Well, Harry, that is the best word you have ever brought home.
Maybe now you can settle down and do something worthwhile."
Repentantly he did settle down and a few years later the Gospel gathered the two into its net.
They came to Utah, settling in Cedar City. The house in the center below the church is the Palmer home in Cedar 282
