[Vol9 | March 1922 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Hotel Utah Food Combinations Louis J. Theu]

Hotel Utah Food Combinations Louis J. Thew—Chef COMBINATION CHAFING DISH; UTAH Take fresh vegetables, such as peas, asparagus tips, cauliflower and spinach, place same in a sauteuse and heat in oven. Put a medaillon of sweet breads in center of mound of peas fitting "he chafing dish, and a border of scrambled eggs, around same place. The vegetables, in the space around the sweet breads and scrambled eggs. Pour hot brown butter over and serve. FINNAN HADDIE—MY FANCY Take the thick part of half finnan haddie; remove all skin and bones; parboil it by putting it into a pan of cold water, and let it come to a boil, remove it. Place in a baking dish and put some nice round sliced potatoes all around it, add enough double pure cream to cover the fish, sprinkle with fine grated swiss cheese and a little paprica, put the dish into a hot oven and bake until the top is a nice light brown. THOUSAND ISLAND DRESSING A LA UTAH To two pints of Mayonnaise add and mix well, two chopped hard boiled eggs; chopped boiled beets, olives and tea spoonful Worcestershire sauce; two cups of chilli sauce, salt and pepper to taste. SOUFFLE—VANILLA Put two ounces of butter into a pan. When warm add two ounces of flour, mixed well, then add one and one half pint of milk and two ounces of sugar; let it come to a boil, then add the yolks of six eggs, stir the milk until the eggs have thickened (must not boil) add one spoonful vanilla flavoring, beat the white of six eggs, very stiff, mix slowly with the latter pour into a buttered baking dish, bake slowly in a moderately hot oven for fifteen minutes. When baked must be served at once. Any other kind of flavoring can be used instead of vanilla. AU GRATIN POTATOES—DAUPHINAISE Rub an earthenware baking dish with garlic, spread some soft butter all over, place a layer of raw potatoes sliced thin, and a layer of grated swiss cheese, season every layer with salt and pepper, to a quart of milk or cream, beat two raw eggs and pour enough over the potatoes to cover. Add a few small pieces of butter and bake about 35 minutes in a moderately hot oven.