[Vol9 | March 1922 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson III - Literature - Hymns of Alexander Neibaur]

LESSON III. Literature. (Third Week in May) HYMNS OF ALEXANDER NEIBAUR Alexander Neibaur, a Jew, born in Ehrenbriestein, in the noted Alsace-Lorraine country, added to the noble training of the Jews the knowledge of the Messiah, and also the knowledge that the gospel had been restored through the Prophet Joseph Smith. He was acquainted with the Prophet Joseph, having ' been his instructor in Hebrew and German for a season. He was the first Jew to join the Church. The greatest of all books is the Bible; judged from a purely literary point of view, it is in a class by itself. When the youth who wrote "Thanatopsis'""? was asked how he obtained his exalted style, he said, from reading the Bible and listening to my grandfather pray, who employed much of biblical phraseology in his prayer. A casual reading of the hymn, "Come, thou glorious day of promise," page 246 of the hymn book, will disclose one of two things at the outset, that its author was either a Jew, or that, through natural aptitude and intensive training, he had caught the spirit of the Jew. The diction and imagery of the hymn breathes the spirit of the Hebrew scriptures, partaking of their high literary and poetic quality. The first line is to the point, 'Come, thou glorious day of promise." To no other people does the word "promise" connote so much as to the Jews. Their great forebear, Abraham, was led by the Lord to the Land of Promise; they are very frequently referred to as a people of promise, and their future depends on the fulfilment of the promises of the Lord unto them. In other lessons and at other times we have alluded to the fact that Jewish people frequently pay the high tribute to the United States of America of calling it a "Land of Promise." Nothing could be more thoroughly natural than that the burden of this song should be a prayer to God to hasten the  day when the scattered sheep of Israel shall no longer go astray. When the anger of the Lord shall be turned from his chosen people, and the time of their unbelief and misery be brought to an end. In this prayer the poet was true to the tradition of his fathers, and true to the revelations of the Prophet Joseph. Looking toward the time when Israel shall be gathered from all nations, the Ten Tribes come forth, the Lamanites rise from darkness and degredation, and the Jews gather to Jerusalem, the Holy City. This fervent prayer, this great hope, has been lifted into the realm of poetry through the medium of great feeling, such feeling as is deeply reverent, and a choice of words rare in their appropriateness and beauty. The word "sheep," as used by Elder Neibaur, is preferable to any other word possible, for the Messiah had said, '"My sheep know my voice," and the great psalmist had chacterized his Lord as a shepherd who leadeth his sheep into green pastures. "Hosannas" is a word that comes resounding from the past, carrying with it the flavor of the Hebrew scriptures. The same thing is true of such phrases as, "Thy wrath forever burn," "Thine ancient Israel, their transgressions from them turn.' The use of the word "Jacob" is particularly good in a hymn of prayer, pleading for the redemption of Israel. So, too, the word "Messiah" is the favorite word of the Hebrew. The hymn reaches a grand climax in the lines: "Prince of Peace, o'er Israel reign." The consummation of all of Israel's hopes and indeed the hopes of all humanity will be realized when the Prince of Peace shall reign o'er Israel. Peace is the theme of the hour, it has occupied the first thought of the world's greatest statesmen for nearly a decade, there is no theme that people of every nation will attend to so quickly as this same theme of peace. Surely, even though the hour be delayed, the time is not far distant when the Prince of Peace shall reign o'er Israel. "Come, thou glorious day of promise" is a poem, meeting the standards set for poetry. 'The thought content is lofty, the emotion adequate and reverent, the diction appropriate, the imagery apt and beautiful, while the entire composition arouses memories of the holy prophets and the Messiah who came forth from the hand of God to bring redemption to the world. No estimate of this hymn can in any way be complete that neglects to mention its metrical qualities. There is beauty and dignity in the verse movements and the music of the lines, which adds to its charm and causes it to linger in the memory. On page 299 of the hymn book, we have a hymn lamenting the fate of the Jews and rejoicing in the fact that "The days  of the mourning are near at an end," "When Messiah will come" their "Redeemer and friend" "To cheer thee and bless thee and dry UP thy tears, etc. This, like "Come, thou glorious day of promise" is born of Jewish sorrow, accumulating through centuries of suffering, and lightened, too, as the first one, by the knowledge that the Messiah cometh, and that soon, with healing in his wings. Alexander Neibaur is the author of the hymn, "Let Judah rejoice," but his name does not appear as its author because, having made a few changes suggested by Parley P. Pratt, he appears to frave been too modest to lay claim to its authorship. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Have some person read, "Come, thou glorious day of promise" in its entirety to the class. 2 Why is it especially appropriate to use the word "Jacob" in speaking of Israel?, 3. Go to the dictionary and find the meaning of the worl "connote." How does its meaning throw light on words as used by the author of this hymn? 4, Select from "Thanatopsis," written by William Cullen Byrant, lines whose language reminds you of the language ? the scripture. 5. Have some one in the class read the hymn. "Let Judah rejoice."