[Vol57 | February 1970 | Page 104 | General Feature | Make a New Start with Alaskan Sourdough Edythe | K. Watson]
akfast 104 table were as large as a cup. The trees in their fall raiment were a striking contrast to the ruggedness of the landscape. Alaska's very atmosphere seemed to flood one's senses with a feeling of excitement and adventure. This forty-ninth state is sometimes known as the Last Frontier. Its name is taken from a word meaning Great Land. Modern day pioneers have carved their homes, villages, and cities from this rugged country despite. The hardships and the rigors of the North. During the past forty years Latter-day Saints have made their contribution, have helped to modernize this new state. Church members have made their influence felt. Our sisters have played an important role. Despite obstacles, deprivation, and hardship, they have worked side by side with their husbands in establishing good homes, using the resources, commodities, and _ foodstuffs available to them. For many years the Alaskan homemaker found it necessary to make her own bread. Much of the food supply had to be shipped in. Yeast, a necessary requisite to breadmaking, could become de- activated before it reached its destination. Sourdough then became the basis for their staff of life. The "sourdough pot" became a valuable possession. Sourdough is an interesting term, having several definitions. It may mean an Alaskan oldtimer, or it may mean a yeasty starter for leavening bread, hot cakes, waffles, muffins, even cake. Sourdough starter is long lasting. Someone has said that it is as tough and indomitable as its oldtimer namesake. Between the camps it was the last item placed in the pack sack, the first item removed at each new encampment. Settlers sometimes walked miles for a starter because it was so vital to their sustenance. Many of the Twentieth Century Alaskans still use the sourdough starter which provides nutritious foods for their families. Missionaries in Alaska find it inexpensive, quick, and simple to use. MAKING THE STARTER The starter must be set the night before you wish to use it. If it is replenished every week with flour and water it can last for months, even years. One lovely Relief Society sister in Fairbanks had continued her starter for over twenty years. Last year she made thirty new starts from it, which were sold at the Relief Society bazaar to the delight of ward members. Sampling delicious sourdough bread made from this start was a highlight of our visit to the Alaskan saints.

ttractive arrangement of them which she placed in the center of the table. As Janet stood back to survey the effect, the colour and beauty of the flowers filled her with a sense of joy, and a silent prayer of thankfulness went up to the one who was Creator of such perfection. The despondency of the early morning seemed as if it had never been, and in its place was a happy mood of anticipation. Oh! She must not forget the bottle of Peardrax, a favorite fruit drink for all of them. They would be able to use it for a toast to the happy occasion. The hands of the clock seemed to be flying around. The cake had been given its final touches and was beautiful to behold. She hoped. Fervently it would taste as good as it looked. She seemed to have so many baking catastrophes when it came to trying something new. The orange meringue pie had turned out just as she had hoped it would and looked tempting. Now for the main course. When all was near completion Janet went upstairs and washed, and changed into the pretty soft green dress which she knew David liked her in best of all, and by the time she had put some fresh make-up on, she felt lke a new woman. As she made her way downand panting, 

101 February 1970

 stairs again there was a loud rat-tat at the door. Eric and Rachel were the first to arrive. Ushering them into the room, Janet noticed with satisfaction how warm and inviting it looked with the fire blazing cheerfully in the hearth. Eric looked at the table with all its signs of festivity. "What's going on, Mum, are we having a celebration or something?" Janet nodded and smiled. "Yes! Your dad and I have been married twenty years today, so I thought it would be nice to have a little celebration." "Oh, Mum," said Eric, "why didn't you tell me? I would have sent a card." He hugged his mother, and Rachel, too, came forward impulsively to embrace her and offer congratulations. In the midst of all this, David's familiar rat-a-tat-tat-tat sounded at the door. Although he had a key of his own, David still liked to have the door opened by his wife, to have her welcome him home. Tonight he stood outside the door, a sheepish grin on his face, his hands behind his back. For a few moments they looked at each other, then, as he stepped into the house, he brought from behind him an enormous box of chocolates. "For you" he said, a soft expression in his brown eyes. As they went into the room together, David's eyes took in all her preparations, and turning to her, he explained how, as he had been glancing through the newspaper during his lunch hour, he had noticed the date and remembered it was their anniversary. Putting his arm around her, he looked at her, his whole heart in his eyes, and as he kissed her he whispered "Happy anniversary, darling." Janet's happiness was full, and as she looked into the dear smiling faces of those who meant so much to her, the words echoed in her heart. "Happy, happy aniniversary." edo A HAPPY DAY They say that happiness is an elusive thing That merely touches one, then flits away; But happiness came in my door quite recently And did my bidding when I told it ''stay."' A morning spent in my old brown rocking chair With ears toward the television screen To hear the words of truth from men of God Uplifted me and made my home serene. 'Then it carried over as I went about my work. This quiet, happy feeling in my heart, And gave me extra patience which was felt By those around me. Now I've made a start Toward becoming better than before. One happy day arrived and beckoned more.

A starter which I carried home with me is proving a delight to use and has given Make a New Start With Alaskan Sourdough me new interest in breadmaking. Sourdough hotcakes, waffles and muffins have a special delectable flavor—one which would delight any family. Make a starter for your own use. It is simple to do in our modern day. It may also prove useful for those who have canyon homes, those who enjoy camping out, or who take fishing or hunting expeditions—and for all who prefer sourdough bread. The following instructions and recipes have been carefully prepared and graciously shared by the sisters of the Alaska Stake. The Alaska Extension Service supplied some of the details used. For best results use glass or pottery containers. Never use a metal container or leave a metal spoon in the starter. CH) SOURDOUGH STARTER 2 c. Flour 2 c. Warm water 1 package dry yeast Make this starter only when you have forgotten to save a start, or when you are making it for the first time. Combine ingredients and mix well. Place in a warm place or closed cupboard overnight. In the morning put 12 c. Of the starter in a scalded pint jar with a tight lid and store in the refrigerator or a cool place for future use. This is sourdough starter. The remaining batter can be used immediately for pancakes, waffles, muffins, bread or cake. To use the starter again, place it in a medium-size mixing bowl. Add 2 c. Milk and 2 c. Flour. Beat well and set in a warm place to develop overnight. In the morning the batter will have gained 1% again its bulk and be covered with air bubbles. It will have a pleasant yeasty odor. Now, set aside 2 c. Sponge in the refrigerator jar for your sourdough starter for next time. 105 SOURDOUGH HOTCAKES 1 tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Sugar 1 tsp. Soda 1 to 2 eggs 3 tbsp. Meited shortening in the evening or 6 to 8 hours before using, set the sponge (batter) as directed above. In the morning save 2 c. For next starter. Add salt, sugar, soda, and eggs and blend well. Add melted shortening. Bake on a hot griddle, turn once. For interesting variations add %% c. Whole wheat flour, cornmeal, wheat germ, or bran flakes to the batter. The 2° eggs in the recipe will provide the liquid for this addition. FS SOURDOUGH WAFFLES tsp. Salt tbsp. Sugar tsp. Soda 2 eggs Y% c. Melted shortening — ft pe Set sponge as directed above, making it slightly thicker, and let stand overnight. Remove the usual ¥2 c. Starter for next time. To the remaining sponge add eggs and dry ingredients and mix well. Add melted shortening just before baking. Bake according to directions that come with the waffle iron. RY SOURDOUGH MUFFINS 1% c. Whole wheat flour Y2 c. Sugar 1__ tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Soda 1 sc. Raisins (optional) ¥2 _c. Melted shortening 1 or 2 eggs Set the sponge as usual, saving % c. For next starter. Sift dry ingredients into a bowl. Make a well in the center. Mix egg and shortening thoroughly with the sponge. Pour this into the well in the flour and stir only to moisten the flour, Fill muffin tins % full. Bake at 375° for 30 to 35 minutes. Makes 12 large muffins. 106 SOURDOUGH BREAD 4c. Sifted flour (or more) 2 tbsp. Sugar 1 tsp. Salt 2 'tbsp. Shortening % tsp. Soda 1 or 2 eggs Set sponge as usual, saving % c. Starter. Sift dry ingredients into a bowl, making a weil in the center. Add shortening to the sponge and mix well. Add beaten eggs. Pour into the well of flour. Add enough flour to make a soft dough for kneading. Knead on a floured board for 10 minutes. Place in a greased bowl. Cover with a towel and let rise in a warm place for 2 to 4 hours or until doubled. (If you want bread to rise faster, add some dry yeast dissolved in % c. Warm water to the sponge.) Dissolve the % tsp. Soda in a tbsp. Of warm water and add to the dough. Knead it in thoroughly. Shape dough into loaves in bread pans and set aside to rise. When doubled, bake at - 375 degrees for 50 to 60 minutes. Ca SOURDOUGH CHOCOLATE CAKE Zc. Starter 1 c. Milk 1% c. Flour Mix and let stand 2 to 3 hours in a warm place until bubbly and there is a clean sour milk odor. Lsc. Sugar Y, ~_c. Shortening Y, tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 tsp. Cinnamon 1% tsp. Soda 2 eggs 3 squares melted chocolate Cream shortening, sugar, flavorings, salt, and soda. Add eggs one at a time, beating. Well after each addition. Combine creamed mixture and melted chocolate with sourdough mixture. Stir 300 strokes or mix at low speed until blended. Pour into two layer pans or one large pan. Bake at 350° for 25 minutes or until done. Cool and frost with butterscotchchocolate frosting or other icing of your choice.