[Vol6 | February 1919 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial]
the women of this Church to be the Elect Lady. And, living worthy of this great calling, she commands our respect and reverence.

That is a keynote principle. Not persons, not individuals, but causes. Great aims, noble objects, these must form the ultimate elements of our thoughts and aspirations. Yet, we may well stop by the wayside occasionally on our difficult daily climb, and salute the leaders of our cause, the banner-bearers of our Society. They have not chosen themselves, but have been called by inspiration, and set apart by the presiding authority. She has been in the Church 77 years on her birthday this year.

That, too, is one of the lessons we learn from daily association with our President; reverence and obedience to proper authority. She is quick to hear the whisper of the Good Shepherd's voice, and her swift feet run out to meet and worship the Lord and to obey her leaders. In this we shall do well to consider her example. May the peace she has sought, the comfort she has earned, the devotion she has desired, veil and enshroud her remaining days and years. And may the light of her quick intellect remain undimmed, shining out from the windows of her soul to the end.

THE NEW APOSTLE, MELVIN J. BALLARD.

The appointment of Elder Melvin J. Ballard to the apostleship undoubtedly will meet with universal approval throughout the Church.

Elder Ballard is a native of Logan, and is the son of Henry and Margaret McNeal Ballard. As a youth and a man, he was industrious and successful. Popular and magnetic, capable and energetic, he moved always in a circle of friends. Gifted with an extremely beautiful voice, his welcome was assured in any assembly. He has filled many positions of responsibility in a civil, religious and economic way in his town and stake; and when he was called to preside over the Northwestern States Mission, in 1909, his absence was felt in Logan and Cache stake. He is greatly beloved by elders, Saints and converts in the Northwestern States Mission, and his presence and services in that mission will be greatly missed.

His eloquence and simple, modest dignity make him an ideal preacher and exhorter. Those who heard him speak in the recent conferences of the Church will not soon forget his moving appeals and his enlightening utterances. The work of the Lord will be advanced through the ministry of this good and gifted man.