Notes from the Field
Southern States Mission
SISTER Grace E. Callis, president of the Southern States Relief Society, reports the following:
"WE have closed a year in which the sisters have found joy and nearness to the Lord by proving the truth of the old saying that actions speak louder than words, especially when it comes to looking after the wants and needs of the poor and needy, ministering to the sick and afflicted, and comforting the sorrowing. When people are ill, they ponder the gospel; and under these conditions visiting teachers feel free to preach the gospel to strangers, and conversions have been the result.
"Four new Societies have been organized. This action came in response to the request of women who are anxious to be engaged in the Relief Society work. It gives them an opportunity to minister to the poor and sick, and to show sympathy to the afflicted.
FINDING homes for orphans, giving material aid to enable crippled children to receive surgical treatment by specialists, and furnishing new chapels, are some of the outstanding services that our Societies have given this past year.
"The sisters in historic Charleston, South Carolina, with praiseworthy planning and diligence, have raised the sum of $333.00 to help purchase a lot, upon which the Church will build a chapel. During the Christmas season the spirit of kindness, which is the soul of Relief Society work, was given expression by the Societies in sending baskets of provisions to the poor, remembering the widows, and providing Christmas trees to Sunday School children.
"The new record book is especially adapted to conditions here, and is sincerely appreciated. The lessons, instructions, and articles in the Relief Society Magazine inspire us to keep in harmony with the spirit and genius of the work. Interest and membership are growing. How thankful we should be that the Lord has a work for his daughters to do, and that while charity begins at home, it ought not and does not end there."
Northwestern States Mission
FROM Sister Pearl C. Sloan, of the Northwestern States Mission comes this cheering message:
"We are much pleased over our annual reports. We note the increase in all activities, especially in members enrolled; and feel that through the Book of Mormon lessons, we are gaining more members. Among our younger sisters, we have some very splendid class leaders, who add enthusiasm to the work. The increase in our attendance has had a tendency also to increase our Magazine subscriptions. We are very happy to note this, for we realize that the Magazine is one of the greatest assets that we have. Some of the Societies have been made happy by having subscriptions sent in from women who are interested in the work but are not members of the Church. Everywhere that I have gone throughout the mission I have found splendid women who have been active in the Relief Society who do not yet claim membership in the Church. We have the feeling
 
that the Relief Society is rendering excellent missionary service."
New Zealand Mission
SISTER Jennie E. Magleby president of our far-away New Zealand Mission writes:
"We have a number of new organizations in the mission. The new officers within the different organizations have a renewed spirit of serving in their calling. With your faith and prayers and ours added to the call for Relief Society progress, the Lord will grant us the blessings of our labors. The future appears to be most promising.
"Our Relief Society members have been enjoying the activities of district conferences. Half of the Sunday evening programs have been devoted to the Relief Society. We have put on the pageant, 'Make Your Home a Heaven.' Songs and home talks were concurrent with the pageant. The opportunity given to the Relief Society has added zest and happiness in being able to do their part in expounding the teachings. The programs have been greatly appreciated, and have been of much benefit to those taking part as well as to the audience.
"Our work meetings are directed towards the functions for Hui Tau, our annual conference. At small cost, we have made many beautiful floor mats, quilts, comforters, and other things. The art-color designs and workmanship are worthy of great praise. They are sold at the conventions and thus re-enforce our funds.
THE theme for the coming conference is: 'The organization of the Relief Society and its objectives.' On January 5, 1930, a model conference will be held at Auckland. We have the following
program to be carried out on Sunday evening: 'We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet.' Talk by a Relief Society member, 'The Prophet Joseph Smith.' Duet, 'Sing a Wondrous Story.' Talk by a Relief Society member, 'History of the Relief Society and Its Purpose.' Song, 'Sweet is the work.' 'Relief Society Loyalty,' by one of the members. The program concludes with the song, 'Beautiful Words of Love.' Then the Mutual organization finishes the evening with its numbers.
"These Sunday evening conferences provide an opportunity for the Relief Society workers to express themselves. One of the spiritual talks was delivered by a sister who had never before appeared before an audience. She could hardly keep from weeping after she finished. She was so happy to have had the opportunity of bearing her testimony and giving her thoughts as to 'The Duties of Parents in Rearing Children.'
"I love the labor, and shall always cherish the pleasant hours spent in the Relief Society work in New Zealand."
Northern States Mission
THIS picture represents the Milwaukee branch Relief Society of the Northern States mission. Every sister in this group is a subscriber to the Relief Society Magazine, and president Pond says each of them is a real Latter-day Saint. Sister Allie Y. Pond reports that the Relief Society organization completed at Galesburg, Illinois, is a small branch, yet every member takes the Relief Society Magazine. Like all others, this mission has its difficulties, but the workers have the spirit of enthusiasm; and not
MILWAUKEE BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY
only in the branches that have been mentioned, but in every part of the mission field we have received the same encouraging report. The sisters are keenly alive to their work, and are interesting many investigators.
German-Austrian Mission
WE are indebted to Brother Edward P. Kimball, president of the German-Austrian Mission, for the following photographs, and the account of the activities of
 
No. 1
No. 2
the Relief Society in this far away land. Reported.
Brother Kimball writes: "On the evening of November 20, 1929, the Forst branch Relief Society of the Spreewald District of this mission held a very successful bazaar. Because of its supremacy among all bazaars held in this field, we feel that you may be interested in a short report of it.
"The bazaar was held in the large reception hall of the Hotel Kaiserhof. Despite the large number of unemployed in the realms of the city, there was a most commendable attendance. As proof of the integrity of the Relief Society sisters and their organization and branch presidency, it was reported that all rent, light, heat, and similar costs were cared for before the evening opened, through voluntary contributions gathered from various willing business concerns. Even city officials were made to feel the value of such a worthy endeavor, and rendered assistance in varied ways.
"The branch president reports further that the bazaar in two hours, had taken in for their organization, over 900 Marks (nearly $220.00). The final receipts, considering articles disposed of and those yet on hand, reached near 1,200 marks (nearly $300.00).
"Not only was the evening a success in a financial way, but from a spiritual standpoint it was very remarkable. The program numbers given, the gospel contacts made with friends, etc., were of a type that make for progress in any mission.
"The postcards enclosed are as follows: No. 1 gives a picture of
No. 3
No. 247
all who assisted with the bazaar; No. 2 is the middle booth for white goods and fancy work; No. 3 the booth for sandwiches, meats, and salads. At this bazaar 350 sandwiches were sold, the materials for which were mostly contributed free of charge by the business houses of the city; No. 4 indicates the second life picture, 'The Church-way.' In the spinning room the song 'The Evil Tongues' was sung. At the close, the picture was presented.
PROUD of the results achieved we trust that our report to you will give you an idea of the fine work our local people of this land are accomplishing. This branch is entirely in the hands of local Priesthood. Missionaries have not had charge of it for some time."
This certainly is an eloquent expression of the zeal and the interest of the saints in this fine branch.
Eastern States Mission
SISTER Pearl Agren, Counselor and Secretary of the Eastern States Mission, writes:
"On July 5, 1929, Sister Alice D. Moyle was appointed to succeed Sister Olita Melville as president of the Eastern States Mission Relief Societies. During November, President Louise Y. Robison visited several of our Societies. Her sweet spirit and words of encouragement and advice were an inspiration?an incentive to work more diligently. It was a privilege to hear her.
In January, 1929, West Virginia was taken from the Eastern States Mission into the East Central States Mission. At that time this mission lost six Relief Societies, viz., White Sulphur Springs, Huntington, New Martinsville, Verdunville, and Ketterman. Before this change took place there were 33 Relief Societies in the Eastern States Mission.
 
Since the beginning of the year 1929, the Auburn and Wilson Relief Societies have discontinued, and the Bronx and Long Island divisions of the New York Relief Society have come together again, thus making a further decrease of four Societies in the mission. At present there are 23 Societies with a total membership of 392 women, most of whom are faithful, sincere workers desirous of serving God and their fellowmen. It is a real pleasure to work with them.
IN all Societies of this mission the members of the Relief Society are few and widely scattered; nevertheless, they are doing fine work. The Palmyra Relief Society leads all the others in charity, Buffalo, Palmyra, and New York Societies are to be complimented on their fine visiting teachers' work. Because of the fact that the members are widely scattered and that many of them are employed in factories, shops, etc., during the day, it is almost impossible to carry on visiting teachers' work in many of the Societies. When carried on, the visits have resulted in better Relief Society work.
"We appreciate the willing cooperation and help the missionaries have given. They have incited interest and enthusiasm among the members.
"The officers aim to keep in close contact with all the Societies through personal visits and letters, and the Societies in general are in a state of progress and peace."