Free Will By Eunice Jacobson Miles
My mind is my own To make or to mar With beauty or ugliness, Virtue or sin.
My house of thought Shall harbor such loveliness, Joy everlasting shall dwell therein.
Some Trends in Rural Life of Interest to Social Workers
By Joseph A. Geddes, Professor of Sociology Utah State Agricultural College
THE personal disorganization that arises out of change, is of special importance to the Social Worker, because many of her charges have been caught by the undertow of economic disaster and have been drawn down. Trends also intrigue the socially minded, for in them the drift of life takes direction. It will be the purpose of the writer to discuss briefly four trends that appear to be influencing rural living in Utah today:
1. Moving out on the Farm.
2. Enlarging the Community Base.
3. Beautifying the Village.
4. Keeping the Spirit of Progress Alive.
Moving Out On The Farm
A STRIKING thing to the traveler about Utah is her villages. Equally interesting are her towns, or county seats, which serve as secondary centers for villages which surround them. At the present time this state exhibits a four-fold economy. There are (1) Farm families living on the farm are the least clustered people in the state. (2) Villagers, most of whom are village farm families, live in compact settlements, where they cooperate in providing for themselves the more important of the social and economic services. Village centers or agencies serve as the sources of supply of these offerings. Here an effort is made to combine the advantages of farm life and communal life. (3) Town folk, some of whom only, follow farming as an occupation. Here business men, professional men, teachers, dealers in commercial amusements, trades people and working men are more strongly entrenched and often provide more than a proportionate share of the community's leadership. These rural centers provide the village and farm people not only with economic services, but tend more and more strongly to supplement the social services which the village agencies supply in part for their people. (4) City or urban people who are interested only indirectly in agriculture as an occupation. Here where numbers and wealth are concentrated, great community agencies supply services for city people and as the means of communication are improved, send many of these services out to the towns and villages, and in some cases even to the farm homes.
Real farm people who like the occupation and expect to follow it have a number of choices involving location which vitally affect the nature of farm living. It is only beginning to be appreciated that in the field of farming there is a tremendous range of types of living. Not only has farming come to be divided into a large number of special occupations, such as dairy farming, poultry farming, dry farming, etc., but within each of these there is a very wide range of adequacy. Vitally affecting the problem of adequacy and desirability is the question of location. Farm families may choose to live (1) Near cities along the highways. Here the occupation is so greatly moulded by many urban influences, that the farm family becomes semi-urbanized. (2) In the large towns or county seats, where farm people and those who represent other rural occupations vie with each other on fairly even terms, although business and professional men tend somewhat to overshadow farmers in leadership. (3) In villages where farm groups dominate other village occupations and control both economic and social life. (4) On the edge of the village living both on the farm and in the village, and thus subject to the direct influences of both. (5) On the farm where the occupational influence on living is very strong, and where frequent connection with social agencies, either of the village, county seat or city types is correspondingly reduced.
Who knows how much socialization through community agencies is necessary for adequate living? Theories differ. From the beginning, Latter-day Saint leaders interpreting modern sacred writings have felt that the cooperation required in solving community problems; that the social integrations involved in bringing people into a real unity; that the progressive attainment of social solidarity through united or group effort, so important an evidence of progress in christian living, could be brought about much more successfully if people lived relatively close together in compact settlements. So Utah was originally settled on this basis.
With the elimination of the Indian menace, many farm families have since gradually moved out on the farms. Some have raised the question, would it not be as well if farm families generally, were encouraged to move out on the farm? With good roads and automobiles, they could come into the county seats for recreational; educational, religious and other needs. Large city agencies could supplement the offerings of the county seat with excellent services, carried to the very doors of farm families in the form of radios, newspapers, magazines, etc. Are village agencies coming into disuse under present day conditions?
A recent study of a rural village, by the Sociology Department of the Utah Agricultural Experiment Station, indicates that village service agencies are being used extensively by both Farm Dweller families and Village Farm families. The Farm families on the farms surrounding the village use community agencies decidedly less than do farm families who live either in the village or on the edge of the village. The average percentages of attendance at all functions are: (1) Farm Families, 25.8 per cent; (2) Village Farm Families, 37 per cent; (3) Edge-of-Town Farm Families, 41.6 per cent and (4) Village Non-Farm Families, 28.2 per cent. Village Farmers use their community agencies 43.2 per cent more than do Farm Dwellers, whereas the combined village farmers, use the village agencies 52.32 per cent more than do the Farm Dwellers out on the farm.
The records for this village seem to show also that the occupation of farming promotes a greater use of community agencies under similar conditions than do other village occupations. The two family groups living in the village average 39.3 per cent use, while non-farm village occupations combined averaged 28.2 per cent usage.
Something of some importance appears to come to light here as a result of placing the village farmers in two groups. The Edge-of-Town Farmers who do their farming outside, used community agencies more than village farmers, although these latter were closer to the community centers than were they. The figures are 41.6 per cent and 37 per cent, respectively. Since the figures reached by all other village occupations combined fall considerably below either of these (being 28.2 per cent), an occupational influence is quite certainly at work. Note that the socializing influence of the village and the occupation of farming are ideally combined in only the one group (those living on the edge of town where they work during the day on the farm under farm conditions and yet are under village influences also). The fact that this group far outstrips all others in using community agencies can mean only one thing—that the occupation of farming is exercising a healthy influence.
So far as Utah, with her village hegemony, is concerned, there has probably been a great over-emphasis on the individualism, conservatism, and uncooperative character of farm families. On the contrary, in this village, where conditions have been reasonably similar, they have constituted the backbone of the effort to support and use community institutions surpassing all other occupations. Where conditions have been most adverse (as among Farm Dwellers who had distance to overcome), they did nearly as well, 25.8 per cent as contrasted with 28.2 per cent, the average for the non-farm families who had no distance problem to solve.
Our study seems to indicate that innate in the job of farming are human conditions favorable to higher socialization. The somewhat isolated work of the day provides the social hunger, so necessary to socialization. If conditions are favorable results arise. They are reasonably favorable for a large proportion of Utah's farm families.
Our study shows that farm young people read more books and magazines than do village young people. They do not use either village or outside city agencies nearly as much. This important fact may have significance to social workers where a city family involving delinquencies is being moved out into the country.
Enlarging the Community Base
THE enlargement of the community base in order to improve the quality of community services, is one of the most significant trends in rural Utah today. It was not so long ago that the village limits were the boundaries and those outside were aliens and strangers. These "outsiders" who did not contribute what the "insiders" considered a fair share of the taxes, were in turn forced to get along without much police or fire protection and were left out in the cold when improvements were allocated.
After awhile it began to dawn on village and town folk that these farm families really belonged to the community. Perhaps the competition of urban agencies had something to do with the changed viewpoint, for it was becoming increasingly clear that rural agencies must increase in size, at least at certain points, and to do so a wider area with greater resources and larger numbers was necessary.
Experience is tending to show that in matters of education, of law enforcement, of health, of reading facilities, and some other things that fairly large size operating base is superior to a small one. In education, under the consolidation plan, we are well on the way towards the establishment of the larger base necessary for good rural education. In other fields we are only beginning to see the necessity for action.
A somewhat serious disorganizing factor shows itself when any change of this type is attempted. Not that more difficulty is in prospect than would be encountered if no change were made, for nothing is quite so disorganizing as slow decay. But small communities can ill afford the loss of an important agency like the school. From a community standpoint, they can afford it on one basis and on one basis only. If the new consolidated school or other agency center is so chosen that the area served coincides fairly accurately with the new enlarged community base that many forces are at work gradually bringing into being, the interests of community progress are being served. If this is not done and arbitrary methods are employed, great harm may arise.
An important service which rural sociologists should perform for rural areas, is to make sample surveys of emerging natural community bases. The community concept is so important to Utah that it should be guarded and conserved at every point. If a small community must die, its death should be but the beginning of a more vigorous, more effective, more adequate life, as a part of a larger community to which its economic, its religious, its political, its educational, its recreational interests naturally belong. In most cases Utah's small villages will probably not die but will concentrate their efforts on certain functions and will turn over to larger units others which they cannot successfully manage.
One of the most interesting and significant changes in rural Utah during the next twenty-five years will undoubtedly be the enlargement of the operating bases of service in certain fields. A Social Worker sometimes finds a community so upset over the closing down of a small one or two room school house, that discordant factions cannot be brought together in any constructive effort for a long time. A careful appraisement of trends may help her to prevent undue disorganization by directing attention to helpful possibilities.
Rural Beautification
A SIGNIFICANT movement in rural Utah's advancement arose during the second decade of this century. Village beautification began to be recognized as a possibility well within reach of even small villages.
Modern city planning began on a comprehensive basis with Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon in the detailed planning of the central city at Independence, Missouri. When Utah was settled, practically all the cities and villages were organized on much the same plan as Independence and Nauvoo. So far as the villages were concerned, few planned changes were made for many years. Village planning seemed to be conceived of, not as an evolving, growing thing, but as a matter to be given careful attention at the time of settlement when the whole task was to be finished up.
During the early years of this century the late Emil Hansen, horticulturist of the Agricultural College Extension Service, conceived of the possibility of developing sufficient interest and community cooperation to beautify selected villages. Due to the tireless efforts of this cultured man, many Utah villages present today a beauty of appearance unknown a quarter of a century ago. The task this good man began, however, is only in its infancy. Unkempt public squares, ugly fences and weedy streets, characterize the majority of our villages today. Those that are farthest advanced are beginning to realize the fine possibilities that lie ahead, awaiting further group effort.
Let it not be overlooked that there is enough wasted idle effort in each community during a depression to transform the place and make it a thing of beauty. There is always something to do for intelligent, willing hands. Idleness disorganizes, delinquency increases during bad times. The Social Worker has much less to do when profitless effort is directed into profitable channels. Farm men could well do much more community work during the winter months.
Keeping the Spirit of Progress Alive
THERE are evidences of a certain resilience which suggests underlying health in the villages of this state. The remarkable development in village beautification during the last two decades and discussed in the preceding paragraphs, is favorable evidence. A rather extensive use of electrical conveniences in the homes augurs well for farm family life. Village water systems, found nearly everywhere, provide a safeguarded water supply, so essential to health. Sewer systems are emerging, roads are improving. Public buildings exhibit an advancing architecture as do also the churches and libraries. Organizations for young people such as the Bee-Hive Girls, the Boy and Girl Scouts, the Future Farmers of America and the 4H Clubs, have programs which cannot help but pave the way for a greater citizenry.
Still we move forward slowly, too slowly perhaps. The newness of the land is partly responsible. Recent unfavorable economic conditions have no doubt had some influence. A slowly evolving consciousness of the possibilities that inhere in compact settlements, conditions progress. A community never has until it first wants. Cultural hunger must grow, it must find satisfaction in part at least, through self help. Much more must be done through the community agencies themselves, than has been done in the past. Real growth comes largely from within. It cannot be superimposed from without.
Since a further awakening and a stronger development of community consciousness is so essential to progress, it is in point to inquire whether our situation is favorable or unfavorable to the bringing about of such a development. Civilization has grown out of leisure. No people has made a contribution of much consequence that has been unable to take time away from making a living and give it to other things. The citizens of Athens found leisure through slavery, Americans are finding it through machine production.
A recent study of leisure among farm people in Utah indicates that farm men have considerable leisure during winter months, but very little during the rest of the year. Farm women have considerable leisure during winter months, but very little during the rest of the year. Farm women have more leisure than farm men. Village women have more leisure than women who live on the farm. Farm women also sleep longer than farm men.
The coming of house conveniences and the taking of women's work out of the home to the factory, are bringing to farm women in Utah some leisure, and more is coming. What will farm women do with it?
Women of the Relief Society, a great opportunity is before you here. If you interest yourselves in the building up of a fine community consciousness, in terms of adequate programs of health, education, recreation, religion, beauty of surroundings, etc., you will be taking a great step forward in making the villages in the valleys of the mountains the finest place in the world in which to live. And you are the only ones who have the time to do it. Social leadership beckons you.
The Social Worker finds her satisfaction not in the immediate situation, for that often discourages. Cheer comes rather in the change in situation, in the improvement in condition, in the family once more on its feet. If she can, now and then, see one community that is improving, her spirits lift; one family that is developing, it makes her day; a community development in the right direction takes the sting of failure away from her so readily.