Notes to the Field
Over the Top
WE congratulate the following wards for going over the top in the Magazine Subscription drive.
Stake Ward Enrollment No. Of Subscriptions Big Horn Worland (Branch) 27 85 Box Elder 2nd Ward 85 32 Eastern States Mission Newark Branch 52 85 Ensign 12-13th 85 86 Ensign 20th 103 105 Juarez Garcia 19 22 Maricopa Phoenix 2nd 72 80 Palmyra Leland 37 37 Uintah Davis 38 38
We think this is a very fine showing, and hearty congratulations go to these enterprising Relief Society women. Certificates of merit have been sent to these successful workers. This is just the beginning of a very splendid record we know will be made.
Music For Patriotic Programs
Many celebrities have been born in the month of February. The one to whom we wish to give special tribute this year, however, is that of our first president—George Washington. In remembrance of this day, February 22nd, patriotic programs will be prepared. With this thought in view the following list of national and patriotic songs is suggested. From these songs the choristers and organists can choose in making up the program for this occasion.
1. America.
2. America the Beautiful.
3. The Star-Spangled Banner.
4. Tramp! Tramp! Tramp!
5. Yankee Doodle.
6. Columbia, the Gem of the Ocean.
7. Battle Hymn of the Republic.
8. The Flag Without a Stain.
9. The Battle Cry of Freedom.
10. Dixie Land.
Magazine Agents
When a subscription is renewed, give the name exactly as it appeared on the previous subscription. Be sure to state with which number of the Magazine the subscriber wishes to begin the renewal. This will avoid duplications. If the agent will fill the stub attached to each receipt, she will have a record to refer to and can help to eliminate extra work and expense, as well as dissatisfaction among the subscribers.
Eliza R. Snow Poetry Contest
From the number of poems submitted this year it would indicate that interest grows with the years. Last year there were 77 poems submitted, this year 104. The judges were Miss Myrtle Austin of the English Department of the University of Utah; Professor Harrison Merrill, Editor of the Era; and Mrs. Kate M. Barker, of the  , for "Autumn." Honorable mention is given to Phyllis Hodgson Holbrook, of Price, Utah, for "My Beloved"; to Claire Stewart Boyer, of Salt Lake City, for "Happening"; and to Alice M. Smock, of Twin Falls, Idaho, for "Grandmother's Quilts."
The judges were unanimous in their decision of the prize winning poems. We congratulate the winners and the sisters who submitted so many fine poems.
An Ever Present Friend
Are you reading and enjoying and profiting by reading the Handbook? It should be an ever present friend in time of perplexity. When you don't know what to do go to the Handbook and see what instructions it has for you.