ROSANNAH CANNON
Pioneer Woman By Rosannah Cannon
She left all the lovely things of life behind her, All the little luxuries that make life sweet, A home that sheltered ease and comfort, Friends with gentle cultivated ways to meet.
She left them all and set her face Toward an unknown land, Inspired by a faith, a hope, a trust In a gospel new and grand.
She came with her children, and there was a babe That was nursing at her breast, Through unbroken wilderness and storm To a western land of rest.
She came and she toiled with never a thought Of the luxuries left behind, With rude logs of quaking aspen She built a home enshrined.
In faith and in hope and in sacred love For husband, children, friend, She lived a life of sacrifice Until her journey's end.
Her name may not be written large In history's golden page, But love and truth and sacrifice Are deathless through each age.
FAMILY CASE WORK
By Elizabeth McMechen
THE spirit of neighborliness has sweetened life for thousands throughout all generations. It has taken various forms and modes according to the exigencies of the hour. It has been sometimes wise and sometimes foolish, sometimes understanding and sometimes unaware, which is the varied way of human thought and action—but always it has been prompted by love, and by the necessity which some people feel to share with others the gifts with which they have been endowed.
In the years 1930 and 1931, this spirit of neighborliness has stood the acid test of sacrifice entailed in sharing with one's neighbor the too crowded home, the too frugal board, the slowly dwindling hope. To the social worker of this day has been given, the privilege of seeing in "close up" many situations in which men and women have given to one another gifts beyond human valuation. One may give his life for another. That is that. It is given and the agony is over. But to give, day by day, bread from one's own children's mouths that one's neighbors' children, too, may live—that requires courage. To give one's faith that another's faith in himself and in the goodness and righteousness of life may persist—that is to be a real neighbor. America has many such today.
As individuals everywhere are re-shaping their lives to meet the demands of this grievous hour, so social agencies are having to adapt their programs to the needs of a troubled world. Before the depression, family social work had begun to shape for itself a philosophy—not fixed—often uncertain—but with tendencies toward certain purposes and toward certain beliefs as to ways in which human beings might best be helped, and as to the causes of this need for help. Some things had been learned here and some there, as one learns by living, day by day. Sometimes by making mistakes, sometimes by making studies, sometimes by merely watching a child at play—as, for instance, the young worker who relates of a nursery school that a commotion arose one day in the doorway. Children and grown people quickly formed a circle, blocking the view of a two year old child. He made no outcry. He attempted to climb upon his little red chair. He rolled over, rose, and tried again. Suddenly a grown-up spied him, pitied him, lifted him up above the crowd—robbed him of achievement, denied him the glory of success.