Not Asylums, But Homes
By Amy W. Evans
"The family is the richest medium for the nurture and development of the child."
LITTLE JANE in her brown and white checked gingham dress, her tightly braided "pigtails" tied with string, her sturdy copper-toed shoes, all blazoning the words, "Orphan Asylum Child," has become a pathetic figure of the past. Or if not entirely so, at least in all communities that follow modern methods of care for the dependent child.
As long as the family has been in existence there have been children bereft of parental care for one reason or another, and the group or community to which they belonged has undertaken to rear them. Among the ancient Israelites, immediately after the exodus from Egypt, according to Dr. W. H. Slingerland, orphan and fatherless children were legally placed in selected families. Psalm LXVIII says that God is "A father to the fatherless" and that he "setteth the solitary in families."
It was not until after the Christian era that asylums for dependent children were established. The churches were the first to build and maintain them, and the particular faith of the founders was carefully instilled into the minds of the children.
England, in 1562, met the problem of the dependent child by legalizing an apprentice system. Children were placed with housewives, farmers, mechanics, or artisans who had the right to use them for any kind of labor they were capable of performing. There was great opportunity for abuse and exploitation in this system. The children were practically slaves, and were often deprived of education and very cruelly treated.
In America, New England at first followed the English system of indenture, with the same results of abuse and overwork and neglect of many of the unfortunate children. The first orphan asylum in this country was founded at New Orleans in 1729, in connection with the Ursuline Convent. After 1800 there was a rapid increase in institutions for children. Many wealthy people gave immense sums for the building and maintenance of large structures which housed hundreds of children under one roof. They slept in huge dormitories and ate in long, immense dining rooms. A certain amount of dulling routine had to be followed, and a painful orderliness maintained, which though it might please the Boards of Directors, was damning to the development of the personality of the child. The tendency was to suppress individuality, to consider the children as so many gingham-frocked Janes or denim-covered Johns. It was here that the orphanage type developed.
However, there were some thinking people who began to question the wisdom of this institutional care of children. The results were not satisfactory. The asylum child when kept long could not adjust well in normal society. He was different from the average child reared in its own home. The importance of home life for every child began to be understood. So asylums were changed from the large, congregate type to the cottage plan. Small buildings were grouped around a central administration building. Under the care of a house mother a smaller number of children were given something more like home life. There was less formality and children were encouraged to plant gardens, care for chickens and rabbits and various pets. They attended the public school instead of being taught at the orphanage, which was another advantage.
As far back as 1853, Charles Loring Brace maintained that healthy, normal children should not be held in an institution except for a very brief period. He organized the New York Children's Aid Society, the pioneer society of this kind. He proceeded to find foster homes for hundreds of children. From the streets of New York he took destitute children and placed them on farms. He conceived the idea of sending groups of children to other states and there placing them with families. An agent of the Society took such a group from New York to Michigan and with the aid of a local committee held a meeting in a church to which were invited farmers from the surrounding country. A talk explaining the purpose of the New York Society was given and a plea made for permanent homes for the children. In less than a week all the children were placed. Later, other groups were sent to Ohio and placed in a similar manner.
According to present day standards this was a very faulty procedure in child placing, as there was no adequate investigation of foster homes, no effort made to fit the child to the home where he might be able to adjust most satisfactorily. Neither was there sufficient subsequent supervision of foster homes. Notwithstanding the defects in procedure in placing the children, Mr. Brace's idea that normal, healthy children should not be held in institutions except for very brief periods was a step forward in child welfare.
Soon after the organization of the New York Children's Aid Society, other cities formed similar societies, Baltimore in 1860, Boston in 1864, and so on. Out of the conferences and meetings of the representatives of these various societies grew the Child Welfare League of America. Sooner or later, most all of the children's aid organizations adopted the idea of the New York Society and the result has been that foster home care for needy children has emptied most of the institutions. In some states these buildings are being used for hospitals, homes for defectives, etc.
The present tendency in the care of the dependent child is well expressed by the author of The Child Is the Future. She says, "If it can provide anything like adequate care the home into which a child is born is the place to bring him up. Where the essentials of family life exist even in a minor degree every effort should be made to keep him with his own father and mother. Their home is his rightful place and the sense of belonging which comes from being in it meets one of the deepest fundamental needs of life."
President Roosevelt's White House Conference on the Care of Dependent Children, held at Washington, D. C., in 1909, recommended that "Children of worthy parents or deserving mothers should as a rule be kept with their parents at home," and that "Homeless and neglected children, if normal, should be cared for in families when practicable." These recommendations were reaffirmed by the conference called by the Federal Children's Bureau at the Request of President Wilson in 1919, and also by President Hoover's Conference on Child Health and Protection which met in 1930. The committee on the dependent and neglected child of the last named conference found that "today the principle of the preservation of the home is fully established in the legislation of nearly every State in the Union as a public policy, while some 220,000 needy children are living in their own homes, cared for by their own mothers through the operation of mothers' aid laws. In 1929, thirty-three States spent more than $30,000,000 for this purpose. Many thousands of these children, but for the mother's pensions, would have been taken from their homes to other types of care."
When a child is removed from his own home through sickness, death, mental illness, bad environment or any legitimate reason, never for poverty alone, then the best standards require that he be placed in some other home approximating as nearly as possible what his own home should be to him, "to fit him into the normal group and differentiate him as little as possible from other children." To do this requires understanding and skill. It demands a thorough study of the physical, mental and emotional life of the child, also a knowledge of his family and the influences which have made him what he is. The home into which he is to go must be selected to meet his particular needs. Continuous supervision of and contact with the child while he remains in the foster home is also required.
So the care of needy children has come to mean, not asylums, but homes—the child's own home, if possible. Every effort should be made to protect the health of mothers, to safeguard men in industry, to eliminate unemployment and those other things which contribute to child dependency and neglect and deprive him of his rightful heritage to be reared in a normal home. Social workers of today see possibilities for constructive, preventive work in dealing with children, that the future depends upon the care and training given the child. The child is the future.
In the words of David Starr Jordan, "There is nothing in all the world so important as children, nothing so interesting. If ever you wish to go in for philanthropy, if ever you wish to be of real use in the world, do something for children. If ever you yearn to be wise, study children. If the great army of philanthropists ever exterminate sin and pestilence, ever work out our race salvation, it will be because a little child has led."