President Charles W. Nibley An Appreciation
By Dr. Richard R. Lyman of the Council of the Twelve
THE fairy tales we tell our children are hardly more romantic, marvelous or miraculous than the life story of President Charles W. Nibley. It portrays his rise from poverty to affluence, from a humble station to positions of honor, dignity and trust.
Born in poverty, the son of a Scotch coal miner, Charles W. Nibley learned early in his life the lessons of frugality, industry and the value of money. These lessons contributed greatly to the phenomenal success of his later life. In his public addresses, thrift, the habit of saving, the wise use of time and money were among his favorite themes.
The faith, the integrity, the industry and the sterling worth of his mother were the chief inspiration of Charles W. Nibley. To him she was ideal. She and he, mother and son, were held together by bonds of affection and mutual esteem. During the whole of the eighty-two years of his unusual career, this distinguished civic leader, business man and high Church official could hardly mention his mother's name without shedding tears. Her religious temperament, her spirituality and her early instructions created in his young heart a faith. A knowledge and a burning testimony of the divinity of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, which glowed in his soul unceasingly with such intensity that his life was lived in accord with the divine admonition: "Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you." Her industry and her capacity for work, her devotion to duty and her honesty of purpose inspired in him all of these admirable qualities.
Very naturally, in those early pioneer days, there was in her life little time for play. She devoted herself earnestly and continuously to work, to prayer and to other serious things. While her life was one of continuous struggle, and devoid of comforts, her reward was rich indeed when compared with that which comes to those who seek only self-gratification and the passing pleasures of the moment. What greater reward can come to any woman than to be the mother of such a son?
As a man of affairs, Charles W. Nibley had few equals. We stand amazed at what he accomplished in the midst of rather ordinary surroundings. His was a fine intellect, his was a discriminating and accurate mind.
As an organizer he was a master. It was this ability that made successful so many of his big undertakings. He never did himself what he could have others do. He placed responsibility on his subordinates and held them for results. Nor did he expect too much of his associates. He secured from them not only hearty but affectionate support because his practice was to look for something in them or their work to commend rather than for something with which to find fault. Thus this master organizer found time to devote his own unusual abilities to major rather than to minor matters.
In all fields of his endeavor his mental power, his insight, his sagacity and good judgment carried him ever on and on from one success to another. He excelled as business man, merchant, railroad operator and manager, statesman, and Church leader. His success in the broad field of his activities was exceeded only by his unbounded generosity. Sharing his fortune with others was one of his greatest pleasures. Having felt the pangs of hunger he had deep and genuine sympathy for all who were poor or unfortunate. No cry for food or clothing ever reached his ear unheeded. The needy never appealed to him in vain. His large and generous gifts to the Church in addition to the payment of his regular dues and contributions and his magnificent gift to his city mark him, I think, as being peerless in liberality among his fellow churchmen and fellow citizens of Utah.
This great man had a personality unusual, remarkable, and charming, resulting from the combination of a fine physical make-up, a keen intellect, good emotional balance, and a sane outlook on life and its problems. He had a magnetic attraction for both old and young. While he had admirable dignity there was in him a natural affection that drew people to him. He had good poise; he was free from complexes. His genial spirit and his understanding heart drew admiration and affection from those who knew him.