Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Nebo Stake. At an entertainment given early in the year by the Nebo stake Relief Society in honor of the stake presidency and stake clerk, the board members presented four Bible stories, which they had dramatized. The entertainment was so successful that it was given by request to six of the wards of the stake in a joint entertainment on the Relief Society annual day, and later to the Santaquin wards. BIBLE STORIES DRAMATIZED The stories dramatized and the cast of characters in each group were as follows: the story of Ruth, Naomi?President Hepsy Sperry Lewis, Ruth?Leona Dixon, and Orpha?Delia Dixon; the story of Elijah and the widow, widow?Mary Jeppson, Elijah - ?Annie Curtis, child?Genevieve Clayton; the story of Rebekah at the Well, Rebekah?Hazel Coray, Nahor?Annie Curtis, Isaac ?Louise Cox, Maids?Delia Dixon, Julia Hancock, Leona Dixon, Ann J. Loveless; the story of Miriam, Miriam?Reta Loveless, Mother of Moses?Lydia Harris, Daughter of Pharaoh?Phoebe Reid; director, Ada Clayton. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 421 Utah Stake. In commemoration of the founding of the Relief Society, the Utah stake board Relief Society entertained all the Relief Society members of the stake and a few visitors at the Columbia Theatre the afternoon of March 17, 1926. There were between 1150 and 1200 present. The entertainment opened by theevast congregation singing, "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet," after which the following program was given; speech of welcome, President Electa S. Dixon; one-act play, "Young America," furnished by the B. Y. U. Dramatic Art Department; the picture, "Druscilla and her Millions." As a climax sentiments were thrown upon the screen, stating the date of the organization of the Relief Society, purpose of the organization, and what it has meant to women. Both the one-act play and the picture depicted the spirit of the Relief Society. The entertainment was especially enjoyed and appreciated by all who attended since it was just a little different from the usual manner of celebrating this occasion. The attendance shows the jattitude of the Relief Society members of the stake to the Relief Society cause. The stake membership is 1099. Jordan Stake. The Jordan stake -Relief Society recently ientertained at a banquet in the Sandy. Second ward chapel in honor of President Soren Rasmussen and stake clerk Niels Lind. The tables were beautifully decorated in yellow and white, and the young women who served wore caps and japrons in the same colors. Dainty favors marked the places for the guests. After a hearty greeting by President Elfleda L. Jensen, a delightful program of toasts was given, interspersed with artistic musical selections, after which recreation features were introduced. The most interesting and amusing of the "stunts" was a clinic for fathers and babies, when the prominent men of the stake marched into the clinic carrying large baby dolls which were examined by the doctor in charge. Instructions were given the fathers jointly on the care of children. The whole affair was most entertaining and enjoyable. Woodruff Stake. On March 17, the Evanston ward Relief Society of the Woodruff stake, held a "Mothers' Carnival" in the city hall, the program following the outline in the November Magazine. The Carnival was a great success. There were 250 present, 237 of whom were mothers. Of this number, Mrs. Drusilla Stacey, mother of fifteen children, and Mrs. Susan Evans and Mrs. Elizabeth Crompton, mothers of fourteen children each, won the prizes for the largest families. The mother of the most sons was Mrs. Mary Ann Barnes, twelve sons.' The mother of the most daughters was Mrs. Galligos, nine daughters. The oldest mother present was Mrs. 422. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Elizabeth Banks, 89 years old; the youngest mother present was Mrs, Edna Spiers, 18 years old. The prizes for the longest membership in the Relief Society went to Hannah Marston, 52 years a member, and Hannah Smith and Clara Deloney, each 49 years a member. There were prizes given to ten mothers of twins. There was no record, of triplets ever having been born in the ward. The grand march, led by the honored mothers of the largest families, was an inspiring sight, and as they passed the ward presidency, each mother received a useful gift. The gifts were varied and useful. The ward officers made 285 presents which consisted of hand embroidered doilies, garters, shoe trees, guest towels, handkerchiefs with tatted edges, pin cushions, darning bags, needle books, caps, etc. Refreshments were served cafeteria style. Every one voted it the most successful annual day held in the ward, and much credit is due the ward officers for their hard work, and for the efficiency, quickness and ease with which they served 250 people with luncheon in twenty minutes. ? (. Burley Stake. At the joint "Leadership Week" held in Burley, Idaho, recently, with six stakes participating, social welfare work was one of the features. President Margaret Cutler and counselors worked untiringly for the success of this department. The local doctors spoke on health topics and (Mrs. Laura Adamson, president of the Relief Society of Blaine stake, and Miss Callie and Dr. Fouls of the state department, gave lectures on social work. Other courses given were recreation, religious education, methods of teaching, scouting, and a farmers' conference with recreation leaders from the Y. M. M. I. A. And professors from the Brigham Young University in charge. Over five hundred people were in attendance.
Benson Stake. A very successful teachers' convention was held in Benson stake March 13, based on the outlines furnished by the General Board at the 1925 group conventions. The topics were well given and a delicious luncheon was served to the 363 workers present.
Testimonials for Stake Presidents
A testimonial was held March 17, 1926 in the Alpine stake tabernacle, in honor of Mrs. Annie C. Hindley, who has removed from the stake, and the three retiring board members, Sisters Susie Swenson, Rachel Hunter and Emma C. Smith. Seven hundred women of the Alpine stake were present and one of the General Board members, Miss Sarah M. McLelland. A pageant entitled the "Glory of Service" was rendered in the most impressive manner. At the close, a beautiful silver flower receiver NOTES FROM THE FIELD 423 filled with roses and sweet peas, was presented to President Hindley, and a set of engraved silver spoons and a bouquet of sweet peas to each of the retiring board members. President Eliza Buckwalter made the presentation speech, beautifully portraying the faithful life and labors of each of the retiring board members and the high esteem in which they are held in the Alpine stake. After the program, refreshments were served. Mrs. Hindley had served thirteen years as president of the Relief Society of this stake, and previous to that she had served twelve years as a stake counselor. Her co-workers in the stake board testify that she was a woman among women. By her kind and loving disposition she endeared herself to every Relief Society member and to all others who know her. She never asked her board members to do anything she was unwilling to do herself and was surely a combination of Mary and Martha in her full sweet life of labor.
On March 9, Mrs. Hindley's ward (the third ward of American Fork, which has an enrollment of sixty-three) held a meeting in her honor with eighty-two present. It was said by one of the ward presidency, "We have always felt honored in having President Hindley a member of our organization, and when her calling or sickness did not take her, she was at her meeting in her own ward, and when she could not attend, an excuse was generally sent giving the cause of her absence." A beautiful fern and silver pie server were presented to her as a token of their love.
The following officers and members were appointed in the new organization: Eliza Buckwalter, president; Harriet M. Webb and Edith Grant Young, counselors; Mary E. Abel, secretary-treasurer; Lettie Gudmundsen, Olena Goodwin, Mary Cooper, Sarah S. Chipman, Rhoda Gardner, Ella M. Gragun, Emma Phillips, and Laura Dunkley, board members.
A testimonial was given in April in Preston Third ward hall in honor of Mrs. Nellie P. Head and board members Chloe M. Howell, Delilah Keller and Fanny Thomas, retiring president and board members, respectively, of Oneida stake Relief Society. Mrs. Head has been president of the Relief Society for ten years?four years over the wards embraced in both the Franklin and Oneida stakes, and six years over the wards of the Oneida stake, since the division of the stake. The testimonial was given under the supervision of the new presidency, Mrs. Amy C. Ballif, Mary W. Condie and Harriet J. Greaves, assisted by board members and ward presidents. The hall was beautifully decorated for the occasion, and was filled with friends of the retiring officers. A splendid program was rendered, during which Mrs. Head and her associates were each presented with an appropriate gift as a token of love and respect from the Relief Society sisters of the stake. After the meeting a dainty luncheon was served to about two hundred people.
Guide Lessons for October
LESSON I
Theology and Testimony (First Week in October)
THE DUAL NATURE OF JESUS CHRIST
During his ministry on the earth, the Savior spoke of himself as "The Son of Man," and so he was, through his mother, whose father was a man of the House of David, while Jesus' father was God. The mission of Jesus was of a dual nature and had a dual object: first, as God to conquer death and redeem mankind; second, to experience mortality. The one extended his power, the other intensified his sympathy.
The dual nature of the Savior is made plain by the Prophet Abinadi, Book of Mormon, Mosiah 15:1-6.
"1, And now Abinadi said unto them: I would that ye should understand that God himself shall come down among the children of men, and shall redeem his people.
"2. And because he dwelleth in flesh he shall be called the Son of God: and having subjected the flesh to the will of the Father, being the Father and the Son?.
"3. The Father, because he was conceived by the power of God; and the Son, because of the flesh; thus becoming the Father and Son?
"4 And they are one God, yea, the very eternal Father of heaven and of earth.
"5, And thus the flesh becoming subject to the Spirit, or the Son of the Father, being one God, suffereth temptation, and yieldeth not to the temptation, but suffereth himself to be mocked, and scourged, and cast out, and disowned by his people.
"6. And after all this, after working many mighty miracles among the children of men, he shall be led, yea, even as Isaiah said, ? As a sheep before the shearer is dumb, so he opened not his mouth."
We quote from Talmage's Jesus the Christ; the following note, which is illuminating in relation to Mary's descent. Mrs. A. S. Lewis, an authority on Syric manuscripts, "holds that Matthew's account attests the royal pedigree of Joseph and that Luke's genealogical table proves the equally royal descent of Mary. Mrs. Lewis says "The Sinai Palimpsest also tells us that Joseph and Mary went to Bethlehem to be enrolled there, because they were both of the house and lineage of David."