[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | October | Issue: 10 | Title: XLVIII. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

XLVIII.
	“It is fortunate your coming over” said
Sidney one day to his aunt, “the lawyers
who are engaged upon your uncle’s affairs
were imperative about sending for you,
said it was impossible to do without such
an important witness as you would be, con-
cerning many things, for instance Lady
Walton’s death, though, as you know, I
was present, and really I believe you would
have had to come if possible; but we could
never have expected you to bring the
children, and I felt you would not leave
them. Now that you are here, the lawyers
will come down and settlements be made
much more easily than sending papers
across the water for signatures.”
	A story-teller cannot go into all details
of the lives of characters mentioned, nor
even the most important ones; and we
must leave Hilliard castle and its visitors to
the fancy of our readers for a short time,
while it is filled with lawyers and witnesses,
and distant relatives, who push their claims
for consideration. The final adjustment
was not reached without much trouble and
expense, and after long years of waiting,
and careful watching; for other complica-
tions arose through the sudden death by

[Column 2]
accident of young Lord Walton, the father
of Sir Edward’s grand-children. He was
thrown from his horse, and instantly
killed, while out hunting, not many weeks
after the arrival of Mrs. Harrison and fam-
ly, and as no will had been made, and the
children were left orphans the law had to
be appealed to; Mrs. Walton, not caring
to take any individual responsibility, though
she was not averse to doing her duty as
step-mother. Mrs. Harrison the nearest
relative urged her claim, and succeeded
after much tedious intercession in getting
it recognized.
	The climate of England, though native
to Major Harrison did not agree with him,
he had endured much hardship and fatigue
during the war in America, and almost im-
perceptibly his health began to fail. He
was loath to think so, and would not admit
it even to Sidney, who was the first to
notice the change, and to urge the need of
seeing a physician at once. The Major
would not listen to it, but argued he would
be all right as soon as he went aboard the
ship to return. Sidney did not dare tell
his aunt how alarmed he felt about his
uncle’s condition, and therefore she was
totally unprepared when the crisis came,
suddenly, without any previous warning.
Major Harrison spent much of his time
out of doors, on horseback, or reading and
wandering about under the grand old trees
in the magnificent grounds around the old-
fashioned dwelling. Sitting as usual, book
in hand, with head thrown back, after his
usual manner, one afternoon in the late
Autumn, one would have thought him
resting peacefully, and so no doubt he was;
’twas thus he was discovered by Sidney, who
had come out to call his uncle to dinner;
judge his amazement, and horror, to find
he had fallen asleep in death. In a few
seconds the whole household were gathered
round; a few rods away in the former home
of Dr. Bland, a young Doctor lived, who
came without a moment’s delay, a messen-
ger was dispatched in hot haste for another,
and meantime all the restoratives known to
science were used without effect. Discon-
solate will scarcely apply to the woman,
bereft as Mrs. Harrison was of one she held
dearer than her own life. No one ventured
even to try to comfort her; she was utterly
left alone; Sidney feared her mind would
give way, under such heavy pressure, yet
he dared not say more than the common-
place words which his profession as a min-
ster warranted. But he took charge of the,
children, just as he felt his aunt would
direct, were she sufficiently composed to
give advice in the matter. The great tree
had fallen, and Jane Harrison remembered
the dream and the warning.
	So many changes had come to Mrs. Har-
rison in a short period of time that it is
strange she could control her emotions, so
as to attend to the children after a few days,
and maintain the dignity of her position as
the only near relative of these orphaned
little ones. She was indeed a woman of
remarkable fortitude to bear up under such
an accumulation of trials and bereavements.
She was clearer-headed than any of the
lawyers and knew by intuition the best
course to take, and decided quietly and
without hesitation.
	“I shall remain here, at the castle, until
matters are properly adjusted” she said to
Sidney, some weeks after the terrible blow 
had fallen, “I am sure it would be my
uncle’s wish, and your uncle Robert would


[Column 1]
expect it of me too, and when my cousin’s
affairs are made right and the Walton mat-
ters fixed, so we may know what to expect
from that, I shall sail for America taking
with me all the children and nevermore re-
turn here, much as I love the green fields
of my native land.”
	‘‘And am I to be banished Aunt Jane
(Mrs. Harrison,”) said Sidney, in his most
sympathetic voice. “Have I no part nor
lot in this matter, may I not be a part of the
household still? Will you not need some
one to manage such large estates and teach
the boys, prepare them for college and ren-
der some assistance in the arduous labor of
guardianship; even though I may never
again pursue my calling in the ministry.”
	For a few minutes Mrs. Harrison was like
one bereft of her reason, she could not
speak, it was as if a tempest shook her
whole frame and Sidney chided himself in-
wardly for having spoken “Dear Aunt
Jane” he said, “let me stay with you, I will
give up all else for the children’s sake, I
will be a brother to you, now you are left so
lonely, do not shut me out of your life, you
must have need of some one in whom you
can place confidence, I am sure my uncle
would approve of it, and I should be most
happy to serve you, let us understand each
other, shall it be so?”
	Mrs. Harrison acquiesced almost without
words, but Sidney understood and remained
by her through all the days of trial and
final settlements. Sometimes she seemed
so crushed in spirit, it was like a cloud hid-
ing all light from view, all was darkness,
and had it not been for the extra exertion
she was compelled to make for the children’s
sake the consequences might have been
fatal to her reason, or her health, or both;
as it was, she nerved herself for the battle,
and fought it through bravely, never
shrinking though pierced to the heart’s core
often.
	Seldom has it fallen to the lot of one
woman to be left with so many dependent
little ones of different parentage, her own-
two children Conway and Clarice had
separate property rights, then Anna’s
children were heirs in the Hilliard estate
as well as the Walton property, and Clair’s
boy was Edward Hilliard, bearing the name
and inheriting the title of his grandfather.
	A curious complication in one family,
and what the future was to be, even Jane
Harrison with all her foresightedness could
not tell.
	After many weary months which
dragged slowly by notwithstanding the
press of business which occupied the entire
time of both Mrs. Harrison and Sidney, as
well as men learned in the law (and after
many small legacies to relatives far removed
had been settled upon) and gifts bestowed
upon old servants and retainers, the castle
and estates were leased, and as they could
not persuade Maitland’s widow to leave
England, they took an affectionate leave of
her and embarked once more for America.
How changed was everything on their
arrival; how different and how sad the
places seemed, where so much happiness
had been enjoyed. It was hard too to meet
the former friends and neighbors and re-
ceive their expressions of kindly, well-
meant sympathy, which opened anew the
fountains of grief, hard to control when
once aroused.
	Mrs. Harrison interested herself in every-
thing which concerned the children and
watched their progress as though they were
all her very own and they grew up together

[Column 2]
in the closest sympathy with each other.
Sidney Barrington was true to his promise,
he gave up his profession, but still preached
occasionally at funerals, or filled the pulpit
for any of his friends in the vicinity, when
either of them were necessarily absent.
Their life passed along quite smoothly for a
time, and Mrs. Harrison ceased to look for
any extraordinary event to happen. The
boys were ambitious in their studies, Con-
way inclining to medical pursuits, and
Edward Hilliard to music in which his
very soul delighted. Edward Walton was
not so pronounced in any one direction and
really caused his Aunt Jane more uneasi-
ness than the others. He was fond of
horses and of all sorts of out-door sports
and athletic games. The girls were taught
needlework in all its branches and such do-
mestic employments as seemed suited to
their position in life as plain Americans.
Not a word was ever said to them or any
allusion made to titles or estates in England.
	It was finally learned after much research
that the debts of honor most of them con-
tracted abroad had swallowed up the Wal-
ton property, so that Anna's children really
only had what they inherited from their
grandfather Hilliard, and that had been
divided, and subdivided among so many,
that it was not much to boast of, and from
year to year the amount became visibly less.
Mrs. Harrison cared little for the English
estates. Her interests and Sidney Barring-
ton’s were all with the people among whom
they dwelt, and they listened to the un-
favorable recitals that came by letter, from
the lessees of the Hilliard lands and tenantry
without remorse. In fact Mrs. Harrison
felt that if all were gone, the boys would
be less inclined to wander from her and
their home in the new world. She had
means sufficient by prudent management
for all, and she intended the boys should be
taught such industry and economy as would
help them to be self-supporting. She had
imbibed the ideas and habits of the plain
Puritan people and she realized that such
principles were productive of morality and
honesty. She regretted that Edward Wal-
ton showed a tendency to follow in his
father’s footsteps, and trusted to the dis-
ciplinarian methods of Sidney and other
teachers and professors to cure him of his
waywardness.
	The influence exerted by Mrs. Harrison
among all those associated with her in any
way was very elevating, she sought to
make all around her self-respecting and
was a great favorite with high and low not
withstanding her exclusiveness.
	After a regular course of study Conway
feeling it imperative to thoroughly prepare
for his life-work decided that he must take
a university course abroad; his integrity to
his home and the patriotism he had mani-
fested, convinced his mother it would be
safe to trust him, and in fact she desired he
should be thoroughly equipped for his
chosen profession. It was an event in the
calm, quiet life of the staid New England
household, and to Jane Harrison it was like
parting with a part of her life, Sidney was
to accompany him over and make some in-
vestigations concerning property affairs and
cases involved. At the last moment al-
most Edward Walton became possessed
with the idea of going with them, and
reason as his aunt would she could not
change his mind. He was old enough to
declare for himself, he wanted to see his
stepmother, he had heard more than was

[Column 3]
prudent of his father’s career, and naturally
longed to know more. At last unwillingly
Mrs. Harrison consented and charging Sid-
ney to watch over Edward and bring him
back when he returned in the fall and with
tears and sorrowful emotions, they set sail
once more for England.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


