[Vol54 | December 1967 | Page 896 | Special Feature | Elder Alvin R. Dyer Sustained as an Apostle | ]
(Oy i a Elder Alvin R. Dyer Sustamed as an Apostle » 4 ®# Elder Alvin R. Dyer, an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve since 1958, was sustained as an apostle on the first day of the 137th Semi-annual General Conference of the Church, September 30, 1967. He has been active in the Church since early youth and has held many positions of responsibility. In 1954, he was called to preside over the Central States Mission, where he served until his call to the General Superintendency of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement 896 Association in June 1958. Soon after his appointment as an Assistant to the Twelve, he was assigned to preside over the European Mission (1960-1962). Elder Dyer was married to May Elizabeth Jackson in the Salt Lake Temple. They have two children, Gloria May Dyer Klein and Brent Rulon Dyer, and four grandchildren. In addressing the saints, Elder Dyer spoke with emotion and sincerity of his family and his devotion to the gospel: At this time my feelings concern most deeply my tried and true and most wonderful companion for time and for all eternity, my dear wife and sweetheart. Together, we have shared many years of service in the work of the Master.... I know only partially now at the present time what holding the apostleship in my case will entail upon me. I know, of course, that the Lord has made known that an apostle is to contend against none but the church of evil, to take upon himself the name of Christ and speak the truth in soberness, and to be a witness, a special witness for Jesus Christ in the world. But it matters not as to its entirety, for I am committed to serve the President of the High Priesthood, whom we call the President of the Church. He is the one declared by the Lord to be like unto Moses, to preside over the whole Church, and there is only one appointed to this high and holy position upon the earth at one time. I know with all my soul that President McKay is that servant of God upon the earth today. Officers Meeting of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 27, 1967. Seated back of the podium, left to right: President Joseph Fielding Smith; Sister Smith; Counselor Marianne C. Sharp; Counselor Louise W. Madsen; President Belle S. Spafford at the podium. Members of the General Board of Relief Society in the foreground; Boise West Stake Singing Mothers in the background. Astic stake and mission Relief Society leaders from far and near The Relief Society assembled in Salt Lake Gime the century-old Tabernacle on Annual Temple Square on Wednesday morning, September 27, 1967, at 9:30 for the opening session of the two-day Annual General Conference of Relief Society.