[Vol54 | December 1967 | Page 907 | Fiction | Women's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
[Women's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

improving health situations. More than 100,000 persons have been treated and more than 8,450 operations have been performed aboard her. Elva Bean of Blanchard, lowa, has served fifty-five years as a meter reader for the Missouri Power Company, and is still making her rounds at the age of seventy-seven. She also delivers papers. "All this walking," Miss Bean says, "keeps my joints from creaking and getting stiff." Billie Jean King, Long Beach, California, housewife, in July, won the title of World's Number One Woman Tennis Player at Wimbledon in England. A packed gallery of 17,000 gave the twenty-three-year-old American woman a standing ovation. Jeannine Hensley has compiled and edited "The Works of Anne Bradstreet, Puritan Poet" (Harvard Press). A highspirited girl, Anne was eighteen when she came to Boston in 1630. She was truly "one of the first female voices in literature to speak up intimately and directly in her own behalf." LES o o Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Margaret D. Shepherd, photograph librarian at the Utah State Historical Society for the past ten years, was recently awarded, in national competition, a special scholarship by the American Association for State and Local History. The scholarship consists, among other educational and cultural opportunities, free attendance, in Portland, Oregon, at a seminar on administration of historical agencies and museums. Catherine Lacoste, of French birth, won the United States Women's Open Golf Tournament in July. She immediately telephoned her father in Paris, and thanked him for the encouragement he had given her. Forty years ago, the father, Rene Lacoste, was the world's premier tennis player. Phyllis Curtain, Metropolitan Opera star (dramatic soprano), wife and mother, loves to cook. Among her relatives and friends, she is famous for a _ special soup. Born in Virginia, the singer specializes in Southern cooking, including many kinds of rolls and bread. Susanne K. Langer, who has already written two books on the nature of art, has now published a third, "Mind: an Essay on Human Feeling' (Johns Hopkins). She says that we learn from a true artist "what an emotional reality of greatest stretch can be,' as in "Medea," 'King Lear," Beethoven's "Ninth Symphony," Michelangelo's "Moses."