[Vol54 | December 1967 | Page 881 | Article | Christmas Is the Same | Christie Lund Coles]
12 ## Complete Transcription - Vertical List Format DECEMBER 1967 Christmas Is the Same Christie Lund Coles It does not matter if the day is white Or if the sunlight permeates the air; Or clouds hang low with rain; the delight Of Christmas is the same most everywhere. Wherever men are kind and children run Like candles flickering upon a tree, Their faces lifted toward the flake or sun, Their eyes filled with a child's sweet purity; Wherever home is safe and love is true, And the faith of centuries is couched in prayer, There Christmas will be good, its promise new, Revivified by his great love and care. What matters is that Christmas is the same Where people kneel together in his name. The Cover: Vierge a la Grappe by Pierre Mignard Transparency by Camera Clix Frontispiece: Winter in the Wasatch Mountains, Utah Photograph by Dorothy J.

Roberts Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: Mary Scopes From Near and Far Thanks for the wonderful Magazine. It truly brings all the sisters in the world together in a common bond. Our branch here in Ames sends the Magazine to our local library each month, and when the library is finished with them, we pick them up every six months. This year we are putting them to extra use and circulation by leaving them at our hospital. Since I am the only registered Latter-day Saint nurse here, I am looking for all sorts of ways to introduce the gospel to my co-workers. More and more, as a result of the Magazine, I am asked questions about the gospel. June E. Booth Ames, Iowa For years I have enjoyed the poems of Ethel Jacobson. In Magazines that publish poems although it be but one you'll never fail to find one signed by Ethel Jacobson! Vilate R. McAllister Salt Lake City, Utah After having received The Relief Society Magazine in my home for over twenty years, I am still charmed with the contents and appreciate the "little charmer." Marion Baron Duvall, Washington The Magazine is a delightfully new experience for me. Although I am only twenty-one, I am currently serving as secretary for the branch Relief Society, and am finding some lovely and wonderful things about the organization. I am loving every minute of it, especially here in Japan, where there are so few members. RaNae Lindsay Neff Menai Renkau, Japan Thanks, again for the lovely Magazine. I have enjoyed very much receiving The Relief Society Magazine in Spanish. Now I am sure of having a Magazine that educates so much and is guided by our Lord. I have been a member of the Church about twenty years, and these years have brought me knowledge and experience every counsel and teaching comes from heaven through our living prophet. Ninfa B. Torres Houston, Texas Our Relief Societies are progressing. The lessons this year seem to have been written especially for us, as class participation is so good. The Magazines are wonderful, and we appreciate the work and planning which make them so. Airlie R. Eagle President Auckland (New Zealand) Stake Relief Society Many times I have gone to The Relief Society Magazine for comfort, and have found the thoughts of the sisters comforting and stimulating. Thanks for the guidance and inspiration contained in the Magazine and delivered in our meetings. Cheryl Barney San Diego, California I enjoy the Magazine, and each month look forward to its arrival. I think the stories express gospel truths in a most effective way. I made the comforter and crib bumper illustrated in the November Magazine 1966 (by Shirley Thulin) in the handy size.