[Vol54 | December 1967 | Page 912 | Fiction | Christmas Decorations | ]
Christmas Decorations Twenty-one grandchildren are delighted by the Christmas decorations in the Elwood G. Winters home. The table decorations include a traditional Christmas tablecloth and_ holiday dishes. In the center is a handcarved, three-tiered scene which revolves from the heat of the candles. A gift from Germany, the centerpiece depicts the shepherds and the animals on the lower tier, a nativity scene on the center, and a reindeer and a Christmas tree on the top. Placed ona mirror, amid Austrian pine, holly, and red berries, the carving is truly a thing of beauty and interest to all. At the right, Janet Winters admires a traditionally decorated artificial tree. The felt cloth beneath the tree is handmade, and features tatted, appliqued snowflakes which are covered with sequins that pick up 'and reflect the lights from the tree. A gold sleigh, filled with tiny packages, and small animals are placed around the tree. 920 Transparancies by J M. Heslop East Long Beach Stake (California) Ruth J. Snowball, President 4s _ Christmas Bazaar in Long Beach Stake (California) Long Beach Fifth Ward Lovely dolls and pixies to place in the very top of the Christmas stockings are featured in this colorful booth, an example of the many outstanding displays featured at the Long Beach Fifth Ward Bazaar, December 1966. Figurines and decorated glass candle holders, wreaths of bright designs, elaborate centerpieces for tables or mantels, apron gifts and pompom gifts, and golden wall plaques, all contributed to the festive holiday bazaar. Left to right, officers of Long Beach Fifth Ward Relief Society: lcamae Giddings, Secretary-Treasurer; Jo Ann Linge, President; Jeri Cavin, First Counselor; Myrtle Baxter, Second Counselor. A Christmas Cloth of Pink and Gold JM Heslop For several years my mother had been searching for a pink, white, and gold Christmas cloth. Each year the clerks in the stores told the same tale_ "Christmas is red and green." I had gone with mother on several occas

ions and had heard them say, ''If the cloth is to be used in a pink and white and gold dining room, red and green will not be appropriate. You'll just have to make your own cloth." In the meantime, Christmas came and went for that year, and! Forgot about the tablecoth until the next July. Then the idea returned again and again to. My mind, and finally, I had to make the cloth. After much detailed planning, I purchased the materials: 5 yards pink felt 125 dozen pink, white, and gold _severai feet of various types 5 yards white net cut crystals (real jewelry) of gold braid 3 yards white felt I 25 dozen gold beads of various 10 dozen snap fasteners 15 yards marabou shapes and sizes several spools of nylon thread PROCEDURE I gathered my notes together, and made detailed plans, including sketches. The cloth has a pale pink felt base, absolutely plain. The rough edges all around the bottom are covered with marabou (similar to fur, but very filmy). There is no, design on the top of the table; twelve scenes (or motifs) are placed on the overlay of net that hangs down ten inches from the table top. 922 Maxine M. Curtis I made my own patterns from onionskin paper. The scenes and Transparencies of Decorative Motifs by Dorothy J. Roberts 1. Motifs are all three dimensional. For -example, a piece of white felt is used as the base for a building, with a pink door sewed on top of the white, and a gold doorknob on top of the pink door. I cut the patterns of onionskin in duplicate, marking them "'W'' for white felt, and "P" for pink felt. The duplicate patterns enabled me to retain a full set of patterns to look at while assembling the felt. There were so many small pieces I had to sew each one on as I cut it out, or the materials would have been an impossible maze of pink and white felt scraps. After the complete scene (or motif) was sewed together, I beaded it, using nylon thread, with. Every four beads tied together, so that if a thread should break, only a few beads would come loose. Nylon thread was also used for all the sewing for the cloth. After the beading was done, I sewed one part of a snap fastener on the back of the felt motif or scene. The other part of the fastener 'was pushed through the net and sewed to the felt base of the cloth. This method of attachment served five purposes: The motifs or scenes could be removed from the cloth and cleaned separately, or replaced, as might be desirable or necessary. They could be stored separately and more easily by rolling each one carefully and storing it until needed again. The scenes could be rotated or rearranged. If serving a buffet from the table only the front of the cloth would be decorated. The felt part of the cloth could be used for occasions other than Christmas. The felt scenes could be used on some _ other color, preferably white or gold. I am glad I made the beautiful cloth for my mother, for the making of it gave me much creative joy, and the cloth has become a treasure in my mother's home. 923 Christmas Transpariences by J M. Heslop Christmas Comes to the McGhie Home Zola McGhie, Member, General Board of Relief Society An exquisitely decorated mantel and a most appealing table greet visitors to the Frank McGhie home at Christmastime. Tasty, seasonal tidbits complete the welcome, without a great deal of effort on the part of the hostess at this most busy time of the year. The decoration over the fireplace consists of two artificial green garlands. Rose pink and red handmade velvet roses and tiny pink lights are fastened to the garlands. The bells on each end are made from starched lace which is molded over a handmade wooden bell mold. The mold is covered with foil. When the lace is dry, it and the foil come off and may be covered with paste in order to add sequins in any desired color. I The table is decorated with a red felt scalloped table runner, trimmed with gold braid. Flowers, holly, or other seasonal plants, attractively arranged, make 924 q Foods a colorful addition to the table setting. The flowers in the picture are red antherium, a gift from Hawaii. Some simple, yet tasty and different recipes for making ''snack"" foods are especially appreciated at Christmastime. CHEESE BALLS 3 large pkgs. Cream cheese small amount of milk or 1 pie-wedge size pkg. Blue cheese cream as needed 1 oz. Roquefort cheese -1 c. Chopped pecans garlic juice or salt to taste (optional) Let cheeses stand at room temperature until soft enough to cream together. Mix well and shape into balls, then roll in chopped pecans. Refrigerate before serving. Serve with party crackers. They keep well.