[WomansExponent | Vol20 | 1891 | April | Issue: 19 | Title: IN RURAL ENGLAND. | Author: Unknown]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XI.
	It was a strange gathering in the great
drawing room at the old Castle on that event-
ful day when the will of Sir Edward Hilliard
was read. Miss Conway and Lady Anna had
talked much together and had so far as
possible prepared themselves for the trying
ordeal. The cousin who had not been expect-
ing a fortune or in fact even a legacy was per-
haps the most deeply thankful of the two, for
her mind grasped the subject in all its bearings
and dwelt upon the probable results, while the
daughter trusted all to those in charge and
only longed to have it all over. Business in
detail she had no conception of and she was so
intensely in love that all other things were
secondary. She listened patiently enough
when her cousin explained how important all
these affairs were, but she comprehended very
little of the matter. How easy it might have
been to deceive Lady Anna, Miss Conway
quite understood.
	Sir Edward's solicitor had everything ar-
ranged in strict accordance with law and the
sense of decorum so apparent in the legal
affairs of the English aristocracy, he was care-
ful in the most minute particular, and it was
almost painful to Miss Conway to be compelled


[Column 1]

to hear beforehand how each one of those far-
off relatives must be seated, and what defer-
ence must be paid to them, whereas she knew
they had only come in expectation of a share
in the estate which in her opinion rightfully
belonged to Lady Anna alone.
	On a damp, drizzly evening in February the
time set for the assembling of all the relatives
of the late deceased Baronet, the family were
seated in the long, low, old-style drawing-room
and solemn and grave was the expression of
each one, as though some sudden revelatiou
was to be made.
	The will was read—the executors named
therein were present and all was silent except
the sobs of the pale, fair girl whose father had
spoken of her as not yet of age, and left her
under the care and guardianship of a man she
had never known. She was stunned and be-
wildered, could not take in the situation, she
had fancied herself free except as her cousin
might advise and now she was utterly at a loss
to know what her obligations were.
	The whole company seemed under a spell,
everything proved so decidedly different to
what had been surmised beforehand. Mr.
Burke and Dr. Bland were the only ones who
seemed composed and equal to the situation.
	One looked at the other as though anxious to
know what the next movement of the play was
to be and as if it were not possible the act was
over, and yet all was silent—finally there was
a signal for rising and a servant announced
"dinner," and Mr. Burke lead the way with
Lady Anna to the dining hall, the Dr. took
Miss Conway, but waited for the guests who
were visiting there to precede them. Aunt
Judith leaned upon a cousin of her's who was
also distantly related to the Baronet, a man
of few words, whose views were strictly in ac-
cord with those of "Cousin Judith's," a thin,
angular sort of a person with weak eyes and
weaker intellect, Mr. Andrews, he had come
simply as a friend not expecting a penny,so he
had stated to Lady Anna distinctly, then fol-
lowed Mrs. Matilda Brookland and her hus-
band a country 'squire from Devonshire, and
her two daughters, Hannah and Susannah with
three half-grown boys, and one or two odd
cousins rather gentlemanly men from a dis-
tance of whose existence until their arrival
neither the family solicitor or the Dr. had
ever heard. This completed the group, and
Miss Conway not been in so serious a mood she
would have laughed outright as they filed in
and were seated at the table where a sumptuous
repast was waiting. They were all in the
deepest mourning garments, and their doleful
faces corresponded with their sombre wearing
apparel.
	A strange party they made indeed, and a
silent one too, there was little in common to be
shared except the Baronet's money and that
was sadly misappropriated according to their
ideas, better understood than expressed evi-
dently from the silence. Gradually the dinner
made them talkative as it generally does and
one and then another gave an opinion to the
next neighbor at table; they spoke low how-
ever, and seemed waiting for an opinion with
which to coincide.
	Finally Squire Brookland the brother in
law clearing his throat and raising his voice
so as to be heard by all present, addressing
himself to his wife said, "I say Matilda your
brother Edward had more money than appear-
ances indicate, but what a miserly life he's
been living all these years in this old place,
and now what'll come of it all, it'll be
swallowed up in lawsuits, aud precious little
good will come of it, not so shrewd a man by
half as I took him for, though it was very little
I ever knew about him anyway," and as he was
about finishing the remark, the cousin of aunt
Judith, Mr. Andrews, in a thin weak voice put
in "I say Squire I don't see why you should

[Column 2]

speak disrespectfully of Sir Edward he's given
your wife a good penny, and here's cousin
Judith his own aunt, who needs help, in her
declining years only a paltry thousand,and his
cousins a bare pittance, and all that lot to some
fine fellow nobody knows who,—what's the
name? I can't remember and who is he any-
how?" That was what they all wanted to know,
and that was the mastery. Neither the lawyer
or the Doctor ventured a word on the subject
and the conversation turned upon the weather
and other topics, and finally the ladies rose
and left the room.
	After the ladies left the table Squire Brook-
land made bold to speak, he had been imbib-
ing some of his relative's old wine, and was
particularly loquacious, he addressed himself
to Burke the family solicitor who had only
condescended to reply to any question by yes
and no.
	"Mr. Burke would you mind telling us who
this stranger is to whom the Baronet has left so
much money, and who is hereafter to take the
name Hilliard, and live in England? Is he a
distant relation or the son of some old friend?"
	"Don't know, never inquired into the matter,
didn't think it was a part of my business."
That was all the answer, and soon after the
gentlemen left the dining hall, and Mr.
Burke announced to the Dr. his intention of
going up to London immediately. The two
withdrew into the Baronet's library, or rather
his "den or smoking room," it was not much of
a library, for he seldom read anything except
sporting news, and there they had a long con-
ference together. "Its going to make a terrible
stir this affair of leaving so much money to
that foreign woman's son,and how his daughter
will take it when she comes to know all I am at
a loss to understand" said Burke in his quiet
way, but so it is and so it must be."
	"We are in no way answerable" the Dr. re-
plied, "and it is no doubt right,a reparation to
be made, to one unjustly treated in his life-
time—the woman who should have been his
wife, and mistress here; what surprises me
most is that he never told his niece, she's a
most sensible young woman."
	"Perhaps he has;" suggested Burke, "she
may be in the secret, but she seems unapproach-
able, however it does not matter, Lady Anna
is the only consideration, her claim to the name
is indisputable, and she may object to this in-
terloper bearing the name, it would be strange
if she were to acquiesce quietly."
	"Better that than have the case go into the
Courts, and a public scandal, and you ought
to tell her so Burke." "But if she don't
speak how are we to know, she looked like a
statue today, pale and cold, yet you say her
color mounted high when she heard that name,
she had never heard of his existence then I'm
quite sure. And Miss Conway I did not
venture to look at. Its a queer affair altogether
a man of the world like Sir Edward who never
seemed to have any love for his own child, born
in lawful wedlock, to leave all that money and
heritage to one unheard of, he must have had
some affection for this woman, or a strong sense
of justice, or a tenderer conscience than most
men."
	And so the two men talked on, the Dr. never
betraying in the least his love for Miss Conway
but he wished in his inmost heart she had not
been left so independent in the will, yet he
felt it was right, but as he was guardian of
Miss Hilliard, and her cousin was to have
charge of her until she was of age, his oppor-
tunities would be favorable to his suit. All
this he recognized and it reconciled him in a
way, and still he was anxious now that he had
declared himself to Miss C.— to have a promise
and in fact to make her his wife. It was quite
in keeping with the man, he had plenty, he
pursued his profession more from love of the
work and of his fellow men than from any

[Column 2]

other motive, but now—there arose another
obstruction, this young fellow, what complica-
tions might there not be, and he would be
necessarily mixed up in the affair. Burke was
to come down from London again in a week,
before that time there would be more news
from the continent, and meanwhile he would
try his fortune with Miss Jane Conway for
good or ill, if he could induce her to speak on
the subject.
	Miss Conway was as much perplexed over
this new heir that had been mentioned in the
will as the others, but not nearly so much
astonished, for she had discovered in her talks
with her uncle that he was susceptible to the
"tender passion," and she had witnessed the
scene with Lady Walton and it had opened
her eyes considerably. She did not feel equal
to broaching the subject to her cousin Anna
though, and determined to wait for Anna to
speak on her own account; things must take
their course she felt, and now she wanted to be
more alone than it was possible with all these
people who had come to hear the will—and
who seemed quite at their ease in the house of
their deceased relative. Aunt Judith particu-
larly with her maid and all her traps kept
things in an uproar, for the maid was fond of
gossip, and the servants were talkative, and
Aunt Judith listened to the gossip from below
stairs reported with elaborations by her maid
and repeated it to Jane her neice wanting all
the explanations. Jane was discreet and never
enlightened her in the least, though she plied
her with numberless questions, about Anna's
sweetheart, and how cruelly he had been
treated etc. And in fact how it was she had
gained such a foothold with her uncle as to be
left almost equal with his own daughter in the
settlement of the estate, while Matilda who was
also his sister had only a small sum and her
children nothing. But Jane was impervious,
no amount of coaxing or wheedling would in-
duce her to say more than that, "she knew
nothing of her uncle's financial affairs." Lest
her cousin Anna should be persuaded to talk,
Jane cautioned her, telling her it was always
best to keep one's affairs from becoming public
property, and that these relatives cared little
except for what they were likely to get, "And
you know cousin Anna" she added, "uncle
Edward never invited them here, seldom men-
tioned their names, never to me but once, and
then not very respectfully, Aunt Matilda is
very well in her way,dignified and lady like but
not like her sister"—and she stopped short for
a sob in her throat, it was seldom, indeed she
ever spoke of her mother, the memory was too
sacred.
	"I remember Aunt Helen when I was very
young" said Anna, "the prettiest picture in my
mind of all the ladies I have ever seen, it is
almost like a dream, so sweet-mannered and
gentle—and so inexpressibly beautiful, and
papa loved her very much I am sure," by this
time Jane was sobbing outright and Anna's
tears were falling out of pure sympathy for
her cousin; when Jane grew more calm her
cousin said, "although you are an orphan you
have the remembrance of a home, with father
and mother while I have never known a
mother's love, that is something to cherish,"
and she paused, as if unwilling to add more,
but Jane knew well what was in her heart;—
that her father had been almost like a stranger
and her home anything but homelike. "We
shall be all in all to each other from this time
Anna, and though there will be many changes
in our life here, yet we have sufficient to live
upon and to travel, we can go abroad, and see
the world, and that will make up some losses,
we have had." "No cousin Jane" said Anna
now warming  to the subject, "I will not go
abroad or anywhere until I know what my
fate is to be, I mean what Maitland will do.
I must see him this separation and suspense is


most trying, you do not know Jane, you have
never loved, and you cannot possibly feel for
me, or know what I suffer."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


