[WomansExponent | Vol20 | 1891 | April | Issue: 19 | Title: BENEFITS OF THE CLUB. | Author: Unknown]

BENEFITS OF THE CLUB.

	Mrs. President and ladies.—As my thoughts
seem to dwell more particularly on the benefits 
of Club meetings, I will quote a few sayings from
one much wiser than I, which are strictly in ac-
cord with my own sentiments.  You very likely
have heard them before, but it will do no harm to
have them repeated.
	SKETCHES FROM THE "CLUB BOOK.
	"A Club takes off the sharp edges.—Women in
their comparatively solitary lives—solitary as re-
gards each other—I mean, where each one has
been mistress of her own little kingdom, evolving
and administering her own laws—have naturally
grown in individual ways, all angles and sharp
corners.  When a number of them met in society
they were like a collection of roughly hewn stone,
all shapes and sizes, every moment (to continue
to figure) they were ground against each other, 
and each was wounded by the angularity of her
neighbor, the result was a lack of harmony, that
gave a color of truth to some of the most offensive
“sayings” about women.
	The Club is the power that quietly but surely
polishes off these rough edges, and tones down
the corners, ’til women are like the pebbles on
the beach, all rounded and smoothed, while each
[-]etains its own color and texture, its individuality

[Column 2]
in fact, yet the whole may be tossed hither and
thither by the rude winds of life, without friction
and without injury to any.
   Club arrangements will help to take out the
conceit of one’s special importance.”
   When I think of how few such privileges as we
are enjoying tonight, our mothers ever enjoyed, I
pity them from my heart, and wonder how, amid
the continual strain upon their nerves, and the
work and anxiety they constantly endured with
so little recreation, they could ever be cheerful at
all, to say nothing of real happiness, yet I know
from the remembrance I have of many of them, 
that they could smile and sing too. ’Tis no
wonder that they were somewhat sterotyped and
superstitious in some things.
 	I heard a prominent man say, not long ago,
that he wanted to testify, from his own experience
that getting out to meetings and clubs, enlarged
and broadened the ideas, gave tone and vitality
to body and mind, making women better, and
more faithful wives and mothers, that instead of
their work being left undone, it was done in a
better and more intelligent manner.  He said
getting out of the old rut they were wont to live
in, brightened them up and gave them new ideas
of life, that after such meetings they come home
with cheerful spirits, with a better understanding
of the duties of life.
	The young women of today ought to qualify
themselves to do more good in the world than it
was possible for their mothers to do, for the
barriers that imprisoned the latter are being
broken down and removed one by one, so that all
the advantages woman is capable of using are be-
ing and will be given to her, and she will be left
without an excuse if she does not improve all the
talents God has given her, however, in connection
with these great advantages, she needs almost
supreme wisdom to guide her that she may not
overlook the mightier matters and attend to the
lighter ones.  There are so many seeming duties
staring her in the face, that she is wise indeed, 
who can properly discriminate between them and
give attention to the most necessary ones first.
Every true woman understands that the duties of
home come first of all, but aside from these there
is very much she can do to bless herself and
humanity at large. Through going abroad and
mingling with her sisters, she will learn this fact
along with many other important truths not to be
learned in seclusion from society, hence I think
we are not apt to appreciate too highly this im-
portant factor in the higher education of woman.
	M. A. FREEZE.


