Department Meetings (Afternoon Session) Secretaries' Department ES meeting convened in the Auditorium of the Bishop's Building after the close of the Stake Officers' Meeting. General Secretary Julia A. F. Lund presided. It was the first Department Meeting of the Stake secretaries, and was very largely attended. Mrs. Lund paid a tribute to the past and present secretaries, and stressed the importance of their work, since an organization is judged by the records it keeps. Relief Society secretaries are also the historians of the organization. A practical demonstration of "How to Audit the Annual Report," was conducted by Mrs. Ellen F. Shepherd. The copy of a report form was used, each step explained, and the most common errors made by secretaries pointed out. Time was the only element that curtailed the discussion, which was most practical and interesting. Educational Department ASSEMBLY HALL on the Temple Block was filled by Stake and Ward Supervisors and Class Leaders, Counselor Julia A. Child presiding. The subject "How to Teach" was ably presented by Dr. L. John Nuttall, whose address will appear in detail.  Adult Training and the Larger Life Dr. L. John Nuttall HERE is an indescribable satisfaction that comes with a feeling of self-importance. It is not the spirit of boasting. It isa feeling of the value of self. One of the aims of all adult training classes is to develop this fine type of self-evaluation, so that each person goes on trying to do what will enrich and ennoble and expand his own life.; What Is Education? Education is keeping this spirit alive and satisfying it. Doctor Richard C. Cabot's "What Men Live By," points out that education is in pursuit of each of us?that our work gives us a place in the world and relates us to it; play releases and recreates our energies; love for persons and causes binds us to be loyal to something larger than ourselves 'and worship enlarges our view and enables us to see the greatest things in life. There are three subtle elements in this personal development: first, an enlargement of the power of appreciation; second, a growth in the keenness of vision and skill in work that makes us greater producers and leaders; and third, in a democratic world such as ours is rapidly becoming, an increase in the ability to evaluate, criticize, and judge what is going on, so that our citizenship may contribute to a safe yet sure progress. "The greatest task of each one of us,' said the governor of Minnesota in a recent address, is to keep ourselves normal, fair-minded, kindly, and constructive. Even the critics and pessimists whom I have cited, without exception place their greatest reliance on education and on teachers, in the schools and outside, in building better men and women and in bringing in a better society." GROUP of out-of-school teachers working in a voluntary church organization can see the relation of their work to the achievement of this three-fold aim. The attention of these teachers should be directed to three factors?teacher, subject matter, and teaching procedure. The teacher must lead with an assurance that comes only with preparation and a love for her work. Many volunteer teachers are overburdened because while they teach they carry the entire responsibility for intellectual activity. A passive student, even though he be an adult, does not represent the best teacher. One who stimulates, who sees problems and issues, who brings in material to be studied, who devises methods of presentation, is the real teacher. What Is Teaching? DOCTOR BURTON says: "Teaching is the stimulation, guidance, direction, or encouragement of learning. It is setting the stage upon which learning takes place, it is giving opportunity for learning to arise. It is the guidance of such spontaneous learning as appears in the natural activities of children or older students. It includes all the activities performed in the direct furtherance of learning." 'When appreciation and enjoyment are the aims, the power of the teacher as a person is especially important. In this field the sensitive feeling enables one to make choices that uplift and point to vistas of beauty. There are RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE examples of nobility and kindness all about us. Use these as illustrations rather than always focus the attention on corrective needs among the sordid. When a person can, as a part of his own intellectual attitudes, bring a class he instructs to desire to recreate the environment in which they live and at the same time make them capable of enjoying the activity and the fine choices made in that environment, he has the power that directors of adult classes need. In a recent report the president of Columbia University stresses the need of leadership in this field: The New Problem "With these changes there comes "a new and difficult but very pressing educational and social problem. This problem is that of finding ways and means for the useful and agreeable occupation of leisure. It signifies that men must be taught new wants and given new tastes, such as can only be met and gratified by the judicious and fortunate use of those hours that need no longer be spent upon productive industry. Outdoor sports, enjoyment of nature, a love of the fine arts, and a growing appreciation of their ideals and chief accomplishments; a love of reading, not merely that of any mechanically printed page, but of something which should be read for its form and style and nobility of thought, even more than for the subject matter with which it deals or the information which it may convey?these are instruments for the worthy use of leisure. Moreover, some part of the leisure of every citizen, man or woman, should be given to the willing support of those causes, religious, ethical, relief, educational, which have the public interest as their end and which in our American society are fortunately left for their advancement to the 295 sphere of liberty and the voluntary cooperation of individual men and women." Education for Adults ADULT education must have materials. What is chosen to be taught should be selected on the basis of the aim of education. Adults are educated for life just as truly as are younger people. Young folks, ' however, are on the threshold and looking forward to a variety of activities. Older folk are approaching the other end of life, and look forward to Jess variety and uncertainty in activity and are more and more interested in intrinsic satisfactions. From England, in a lecture given by Dr, L. P. Jacks, principal of Manchester College, comes a beautiful statement of this aim in Adult Education: This, I venture to think, is what we mean when we insist upon education for life. We are asking for the wisdom that can be acted. We are asking for an education that adult men and women can translate into the art of wise living, thereby raising the aims of education and not lowering it, as some people accuse us of doing. Art is simply wisdom in action; and the greatest of all the arts, the one in which all the others find their crown and glory, is the art of wise living. Give us the wisdom that leads up to that. Give us education for life." The Materials Needed MATERIALS for adult education in classes the Relief Society maintains, should provide for appreciation material that brings immediate satisfactions. History should be filled with discussions of how men culminated important events, with less emphasis on the early life and biography of historical 296 characters. Literature should contain some philosophic evaluations as well as mere narration. One reason why books seem silly to the older members of these groups is found in this mere story-telling kind often assigned for reading. Poetry should be artistic and filled with emotions of adulthood. Poems published in the Relief Society Magazine are worth studying even though they don't come in the lessons.. The subject matter should also contain material designed to aid the class members in becoming more intelligent and skillful workers in vocation, community life, and parenthood. One of the reasons why efficiency declines with age is of course an actual decrease in physical strength. Another more powerful cause is lack of knowledge. Occupations shift in relative importance, and pursuits once gainful at times must be abandoned. To one who has studied the social and economic world in which his labor is placed, such a necessity comes less as a shock than to one who merely works on, not seeing clearly the industrial procession and therefore entirely unprepared for the eventual "laying-off" and search for other employment. We Must Be Ready Our Church and community histories are full of the heartbreaks, the feelings of ingratitude, caused by the necessary removal from office and from committees of persons who have labored unceasingly but ineffectively in welfare activities. These need instruction in the social and personal problems inherent in our changing life. They need to see that either they must adapt in their work or seek release from responsibility. If taught these changing relations among institutions RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and persons, their lives will be spared the sorrow of sudden removal. Parents need to study, not to condemn, modern life. In the world of today children must not be made dependent, because inevitably the family group will break up into smaller units. We have accepted the discoveries of science and the achievements of inventors, and with them have builded a new economic life, which in turn has changed our social relationships. The certainty with which some parents point out the way of life in a world about which they know little, is very soon demoralizing because what they say doesn't work. No child responds happily to training for a world that has been. Adjustments Needed Ideals come down from the past; skills must be based on forecasts of the future. Ideals may be taught as controls of conduct by parents. Fathers and mothers who train young people must know of the world and must learn of its changes. A recent work published by the Institute of Child Welfare of the University of Minnesota says: "The changing conditions of modern life have made necessary new adjustments in the family and home, The functions of the home have changed, as the work of the members of the family has taken them more and more away from it. But the craving for a home, and for intimate understanding and affection, persists, though often unsatisfied. Progress, which has done so much for the comfort and convenience of the family, has also been responsible for changes to which we find it more difficult to adjust than to luxuries such as electric lights in place of candles, and running water in place of that lugged from a well. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE "But the different type of family life which we condemn or deplore today hangs on the fact that no longer need the members of the family share in making candles, or cleaning lamps, or pumping the water. They must now, in many cases, leave home earlier to earn the money to pay for the electricity that furnishes water and light, and washing and ironing facilities, "In caviling at modern life, we are likely to forget that at no time in the history of the race has the man been the sole provider. The family has always been dependent also on the ability of the woman and children to create food out of raw material, clothes out of wool. It is no new thing that the members of the family have undertaken, but the fact that they must now scatter in order to produce the same result brings about many new problems." How to Judge To judge the world and by criticism guide its destiny is the right of maturity. By what basis shall they judge? Surely the greatest criterion is that of human happiness. The material of adult classes should contain studies of life itself and the effect of forces operating thereon. New forms of wrong doing perhaps should receive added emphasis and old taboos perhaps be condemned less. New recreational activities form a source of joy not felt by some of its critics because they don't participate. Centralization of power in a representative government is a great experiment. Are we learning facts about its effects? No nation or people ever before has tried universal compulsory education. The effects of such a program are more far reaching than the mastery of learning skills and the powers of expression. What are the attitudes 297 in the life of a person toward a government that forced him to go to school? New methods in schools will produce results different from the results of the old' education. The subject matter for adult classes must be new or nothing is learned. Newness may consist of material never before experienced or previously learned topics with new interpretations or related to new problems. The Listless Class (a is danger of listlessness in classes of older people because of the lack of real learning. By mere chance I priced up the February number of the Magazine, which contains the lessons for April. The first deals with the Book of Mormon. The outline says: "This lesson is filled with big ideas, religious, political, and social," calling attention to the fact that the narrative itself is less important. Most adult classes have heard many times the narratives in this lesson. The newness is evidently in the similarity of the "big ideas" to the current thought of today, and in the possible use of the Book of Mormon men as models in character development. Certain contrasts also appear between the thoughts of the lesson and modern thought. These contrasts stimulate thought and are really the means by which adults are able to teach old historical material effectively. Class' teachers should remember that it is hardly justifiable to take the time of their members in listening to a repetition of an already known narrative. Here Are Good Lessons HONESTY is a lesson in this same magazine. The writers of the outline seem to combine two aims: to insure honesty in those being taught and to develop skill in 298 the class members in training children in honesty. The first aim must establish a meaning for honesty and an analysis of modern life. No teacher could in these days be content with merely exhorting to honesty. Either your class members don't need this or they need more. The subject matter must be enlarged. In helping a class to train children in honesty a study of the psychology of learning is necessary. There is experimental data available showing that mottos, formal institutional pledges, and formal lessons are not effective. Examples of honest dealing in modern business are needed. As the lesson outline suggests, the group attitudes and ideals need study, and the relative degree of social prestige held by honest men pointed out. Most of this material will have real interest to class members. Having them learn it is real teaching while simple exhortation and preaching don't get very far. Aims for Lessons This lesson can also aim at developing a power of criticism and improvement of our social order. When an experiment seems to show that the Boy Scout organization does not produce boys more honest than the other groups, we can say that the experiment is wrong, we can condemn the Boy Scout Movement and refuse to support it, or we can study the implications of the experiment, the possible connections in the scout program, and thus become constructive critics. Corruption in public office needs study. Is or selection of men wrong? 'Does our system tempt strong men beyond resistance or is the situation one of deliberate planning among groups of dishonest RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE people? Teachers can help us to become competent critics. The biography of Madam Schumann-Heink is new material to most class members. Present it clearly and interestingly and supplement if possible: by some records of her singing. Not Facts, but Action SOCIAL service means action. The lesson deals with statistics on defectives and descriptions of methods employed in various places in their care. Action must be at home. This lesson would be a sorry failure if it ended as a fact lesson. Do we have defectives here? How are we detecting them? What care, public and private, is provided? What can we do? Shall we do it? A teacher becomes an organizer, a promoter, and interest will develop largely in terms of the reality of the home problem. So we may analyze the problem of subject matter for adult classes. SUGGESTIONS on method may be helpful. -A recent writer, in School and Society, points out that adult education differs from other forms of education in three particulars: 1. Its aim is to provide for an exchange of vital experience. 2. Its method is founded upon the assumption that real education must not have its roots in external authorities, but rather in personal experiences with reality. 3. It therefore proceeds by means of a technique of discussion in which the teacher or leader performs the function of guide and stimulator but never that of lawgiver. Types of Teaching Three types of teaching activities are usually recognized: 1, Perceptual experiences, which consist of object teaching, pictures RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE of various types, models, charts, with explanations in vivid oral ways. 2. Reading. 3. Problem solving. Palmer's "Progressive Practices in Directing Learning" outlines the following: Reading to Remember is encouraged by: 1. Learning exercises: a. Questions that are explicitly answered by the text. B. Requests to prepare for a debate or discussion of a specified topic. C. Requests to underline or check statements judged to be important. 2. Test exercises: a. Requests to reproduce the text read either in free expression or in response to specific questions such as: What does the author say (a topic discussed in text). B. True-false, completion, multiple-choice, and most other kinds of "new examinations." c. Requests to summarize or outline the text from memory. To Gain Facts Searching for information is encouraged by: 1. Requests to prepare reports on specified topics. 2. Questions that are answered by the text although not explicitly stated by the author. 3. Questions requiring the collecting of information as a basis for a judgment such as: Is the author unprejudiced in his discussion? What is the author's attitude toward......? 4. Requests to complete a skeleton outline, especially when the items must be secured from different sources. Reading with a critical attitude is encouraged by: 1. Thought questions such as: Is 299 the author consistent? Is he justified in his statement? Would the author agree with........? 2. Requests to compare events, persons, etc. 3. Requests to compare two or more texts. 4, Requests to evaluate portions of a text. 5. Requests to compare author's view with student's experiences and beliefs. '6. Requests to explain meaning of words, phrases, or sentences as used by the author. (Usually employed as test exercises.) Beyond the Book Supplementing the reading of a text is encouraged by: 1, Requests to prepare an explanation of statements in text. _2.:'Requests to prepare illustrations of statements in text. 3. Requests to supply reasons for statements by author or to fill in other gaps in his trend of thought. 4. Requests to determine implications or consequences of statements made by author. Analytical study of text is encouraged by: 1. Requests to determine how emphasis is secured. 2. Requests to note choice of words (diction) and sentence structure. 3. Requests to compare the style of one author with that of another. 4, Requests to identify or to prepare lists of figures of speech, or other items of form. 5. Requests to correct errors. (This assumes that errors exist in the text.) 6. Requests origin of words. To determine the Learning to Enjoy Reading for enjoyment is encouraged by: 300 1. Requests to select a story or book which the student enjoys and which he thinks the other members of the class would enjoy. 2. Inquiries concerning characters or portions of material read which were enjoyed most. 3. Requests to make out a list of books to recommend to other students or adults. His outline of guides to problem solving is as follows: To stimulate and assist pupils in carrying on reflective thinking the teacher should: 1. Get them to define the problem at issue and keep it clearly in mind. 2. Get them to recall as many related ideas as possible by encouraging them: a. To analyze the situation. B. To formulate definite hypotheses and to recall general rules or principles that may apply. Noting True Values 3. Get them to evaluate carefully each suggestion by encouraging them: a. To maintain an attitude of unbiased, suspended judgment or conclusion. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE b. To criticise each suggestion. C. To be systematic in selecting and rejecting suggestions, and d. To verify conclusions, 4. Get them to organize their material so as to aid in the process of thinking by encouraging them: a. To "take stock" from time to time. B. To use methods of tabulation and graphic expression, and c. To express concisely the tentative conclusions reached from time to time during the inquiry. METHOD implies organization of subject matter and a guide of learning activities. Teachers should not assume that it is their responsibility to tell all of the lessons. Learning really takes place better when learners are active. Adult attention is difficult to hold unless careful planning is done. If the teachers desire really to develop attitudes they must be personally enthused, use subject matter that is valuable in the development of real adult powers, and use a method of teaching consistent with adult interests and study habits. Theological Department Tr large department meeting was held in the Assembly Hall, Mrs. Cora L. Bennion presiding. The principles of correct teaching, especially as applied to the Book of Mormon was the subject of an inspiring demonstration by Professor John Henry Evans, an authority upon this subject. He dealt with both the content of the lessons and methods of presentation. Questions published in the May issue of the Relief Society Magazine furnished the outline. Literary Department THE Literary Department Meeting was held in the Ladies' Parlor of the Hotel Utah. Mrs. Jennie B. Knight presided, making a very fine little speech of greeting, with responses from the stakes. Mrs. Eleanor J. Richards, president of Malad Stake and Mrs. Ethel D. Payne, president of the St. Joseph Stake, each spoke to the subject, "What Have the Literary Lessons Done for your Stake?" The feeling was that if the lessons had done anywhere near as RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE much as in the stakes reported, they had been worth far more than the efforts put forth to secure them. They help young people as well as Relief Society members. It is also believed that the literary lessons have increased the membership, and added to the happiness and the growth of the organization. As a stimulus to busy mothers to reach out for the type of culture and strength that comes from an appreciation of the fine things of life, and the inspiration we gain from our storehouse of ideals, these lessons give confidence to our women creating the desire to possess libraries. 301 Mrs. Knight gave a preview of the next year's lesson work presented in a panorama form. ''Short Stories" will be the subject for next year's work. The text book to be used is Great Short Stories of the World, by Barrett H. Clark and Maxim Leiber. These books may be obtained from D. C. Heath and Company, 182 Second Street, San Francisco, California. The' special price to the Relief Society is $2.88 each, postpaid. Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine gave a demonstration of the short story, from Bret Harte's masterpiece, The Outcast of Poker Flats. The Short Story By Jennie B, Knight ETRARCH, the famous Italian B poet, (1304-1374), wrote: "While in every other respect I feel the infirmities of old age, in my studies it seems to me that I grow younger every day. Therefore I shall be glad if death comes upon me while I am engaged in reading or writing." New Course in Literature You will be pleased to learn that Miss Fay Ollerton, one of our own girls, is to supervise the Literary Lessons for the next two years. A student of {the Brigham (Young University and the University of California, specializing in English and history, and in short story writing, Miss Ollerton is well qualified for the work. She has attended also Columbia University and the Pulitzer School of Journalism, where she obtained her master's degree. While in New York she earned a great deal of her living, and sometimes all of it, by writing. At one time she won a prize offered by a national magazine. The thesis for her degree had to be on a journalistic subject, and she chose as her title, "The American Periodicals? Treatment of Mormonism Since 1850." This work was intensely interesting; she had to read everything that had been written, good, bad, or indifferent, about Mormons since that year. Some of the professors at the school became interested in her thesis, and the Director of the Pulitzer School was good enough to give her an A and some special praise. Several of her stories and articles have been published in the Relief Society Magazine and the Deseret News. While at Columbia she took a short-story course under Dr. Dorothy Scarborough, a writer of fiction of national repute. At present she is with a large publishing company in San Francisco. 302 That she will have a sympathetic understanding of Relief Society women may easily be inferred, as she is the daughter of Mary Ollerton, who was president of the Parowan Stake Relief Society. The Short Story CONCERNING the course Miss Ollerton has furnished the following items: The short story is as old as civilization. Egyptian tales, known to be five thousand years old, have been found, and from the perfection of their art men must have practiced it thousands of years before the stories we know of were written. The story is a fundamental need in the hearts of all mankind. Our demand for it in this day of accelerated living ds 'even greater than in the ages when men hewed their first stone weapons and learned to give honor to the man who was born with the love of story telling. During the coming two years, one of the purposes of the Relief Society is to give to its members a panoramic view of the short story, extending over the entire globe and showing the high points in this age old endeavor of man to entertain and to instruct. Stories of almost every nationality and of every age will be part of the view?some that flourished in Egypt in the dim 3,000 B. C.'s; stories from Greece and Rome before and in the days of the Caesars; literature from our own Bible and from. The Talmud; stories that entertained in ancient India and China, always a choice part of our rich heritage. These and contributions from many other lands, America included, will be part of the panorama. Many Modern Examples Finally the study of the short RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE story will bring us to our own times, where it is necessary to understand what is meant by a short-story and a story that is merely short. For the short story (written with or without the hyphen) as we understand it today, was perfected in the nineteenth century and has come in our century to mean something as definite as lyric poetry or a familiar essay. It is largely to America that the world owes its present form of the short story. We do not forget, as we say this, that at about the same time Edgar Allen Poe wrote his history-making "Ms. Found in a Bottle? and "Berenice," two of the first short stories as we know them now. Over in France a great artist by the name of Prosper Merimee was also composing stories that were to influence the entire world. Yet it was largely from America that the inspiration came to make of the short story a definite form of art. America Pre-eminent AND why America? It does not seem at all incredible to us now when each year sees hundreds, even thousands, of novels pouring forth in bright colored jackets;?when on Broadway hundreds of new dramas are witnessed by questing play-goers each season; and from ~ Hollywood literally thousands of dramas are unrolled each year for the whole world to see and hear; ?also that there are so many short stories published that if a person did nothing else he must needs go blind before he could read the attempts to satisfy America's monthly thirst for escape through means of this art. American literature back. In the early and middle nineteen hundreds was a thing to be snubbed, a RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE subject not to be discussed in polite European circles, or among our own intelligentsia. Of course, exceptions were made for Washington Irving and occasionally for Cooper, but the world did not consider that we had produced any literature worthy of naming. English novels, because of the lax copyright laws, came into America on seemingly every wave of the Atlantic. So little, if any, did the publishers pay for the rights of getting them before the public that any American novel was foredoomed to failure. Poe the Leader Yet a new and virile country always finds a way and America's way to be heard was through the short story. Since old Chaucer's day there had been only a few names worthy to be linked with his as a creator of stories. In the 19th Century an erratic genius by the name of Poe was to give to the world a new style in the writing art, one that would set a pattern which all of the short story writers since his time have attempted to equal or make better. Because Poe's theory of the short story is still the 1930 writer's theory, it will serve best to explain what the short story became in the 19th Century and is today. "In the whole composition there should be no word written of which the tendency, direct or indirect, is not to the one pre-established design, and should be done by such means, with such care and skill, as a picture is at length painted which leaves in the mind of him who contemplates it a sense of the fullest satisfaction." The Single Impression ey eel then, the short story must emphasize totality of effect. It must be short enough to 303 be read through at: one sitting; it must give a single impression, it cannot digress. It must have unity of action, unity of tone, unity of color, unity of emotion, and must exclude everything that interferes with this one impression. After Poe there was a considerable time when only men of mediocre talent walked the road of the story teller's art. To be sure we must not forget Hawthorne, who was perhaps the greater genius of the two. He lived and wrote during and after Poe's time, but his stories more often lacked the one small thing that hindered their perfection, and they must more often be classed with the tale than with the short story proper. Hawthorne and Irving, with the privilege of the tale, could emphasize character, a moral issue, local color, action, and what not, all in one attempt; whereas the short story, fostered by Poe, achieved totality of effect by emphasizing only one thing. Short-Story Writers Fitz JAMES O'BRIEN learned Poe's art. Edward Everett Hale with his "Man Without A Country," came in this period too, but there was no outstanding genius until the time of Bret Harte; and Harte, who wrote best of the gold days of California, did one thing that neither Hawthorne nor Poe could do. He made his stories purely American?American with splendid colorings, and conflicts of temperament, and full of a kind of romantic realism. After Bret Harte, some years elapsed before the great avalanche of American writers was upon us. Then came William Dean Howell, H. C. Bunner, T. B. Aldrich, Mark Twain, James Lane Allen, Sarah Orne Jewett, Mary Wilkins Freeman, Henry James, O'Henry and 304 a score of others. They brought the art down into our own day, when at least every third neighbor harbors aspirations, not always secret, of seeing his name printed among the immortals and receiving substantial checks meanwhile. Over in England Rudyard Kipling, that superb story teller, found his way to fame, and hundreds have tried to follow him. In France the art flourished, perhaps in a higher state of perfection, than in prolific America. Balzac, Daudet, Musset, Maupassant, and Bazin are only a few of the masters. In Russia, partly through the means of Chekhov, a different phase of art, sometimes called Naturalism, had its start and is in vogue today. Because of America's inspiration, Sweden, Denmark, South America, Italy, Spain, all the civilized world has taken a new interest in the creating of stories. Effect of Short-Story Method HE short story has by no means stopped with itself. It has so influenced our novel writing that totality of effect is creeping into some of our best books. Indeed the short story is at least one of the parents of the present heyday of the drama. What the present trend of the short story is and who the writers are, will not be discussed here, for many of you are already interested in this subject and the rest of you will form your opinions as the course progresses. The study of the short story, which is to be yours for the next two winters, will, as said in the beginning, touch the high points in Social Service Class Leaders' Department THIS meeting was so largely attended by Relief Society RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE woman's age-old form of pleasure in creating tales. The panoramic view will reveal the art of many nations, but even more it will show how we are all fundamentally alike, and that in many essential ways man's nature has not changed from the time the water wheels of ancient Egypt helped to moisten the soil until this day when silver-winged planes fly the air and the music and entertainment of the world can be brought to our firesides by the mere pressure of a button. The course will do one more thing: It will attempt to gather for. You the best of the story' writers of our Church and to urge the need of preserving in some enduring form of the short story our pioneer heritage. A Course to Enjoy WE are convinced that you will approach this work in the spirit of intellectual pleasure seeking. It will help you to understand life. We interpret life through our Own experiences. Through books and stories others speak to us, give us their most precious thoughts, and pour their souls into ours. To read enlarges one's horizon. Let me suggest read aloud as much as possible. Think of books in terms of personality.