Relief Society Conference General Session, Saturday Morning PRESIDENT LOUISE Y. ROBISON We greet you this morning in love, and in appreciation that you are here, and for the work you are doing. We are greatly honored in having with us our dear Sister Grant; Sister Fox, president of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and her _ counselor, Sister Beesley; Sister May Anderson, president of the Primary Association, and her counselors, Sister Ross and Sister Thomas. I suppose you have all been reading Church history. Can you imagine what the women of the Church were thinking of and praying for one hundred years ago today? While their names do not appear as those who took part in the organization of the Church, we know that the prayers and efforts of every one of them was bent toward sustaining the organization, and those who were working for it. Sister Emma Hale Smith, I am thinking of this morning. Church history shows her contribution to be such a glorious one. She traveled, labored, wrote, prayed, and comforted all with her love up to the time of the organization, after which our Father in Heaven blessed and recognized her with a revelation. As I consider her anxiety on that day, and that of the other fine women, I am hoping that they are able to have a vision of this beautiful congregation, here today, meeting in the name of our Father in Heaven, and giving thanks that he did restore the gospel through the Prophet Joseph Smith, I look forward to a strengthening of our testimonies at this conference. It seems that of all the songs of Zion, those we have heard this morning are among the most exceptional; and of all the singers in Zion, we could not have sweeter or more sacred voices than those who have charmed us here. Brother Tracy Y. Cannon, who, busy with this pageant, yet came here and inspired us with his music, we sincerely thank. Our beloved Sister Lalene H. Hart, a member of the General Board, and Relief Society President of the Canadian Mission, is not with us often. When she came into our General Board meeting yesterday it just seemed that we experienced the feelings of a fond mother who rejoices when her daughter comes home after a long visit. Sister Hart will now speak.
MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND
General Secretary Presents Officers.
At the last general assembly of the Relief Society in conference, certain changes have been made in the personnel of the General Board. Owing to the fact that one of our most capable board members found it necessary to be absent for an extended period of time, it became necessary to accept the resignation of Mrs. Jeannette A. Hyde. We do so with a feeling of genuine regret, as Mrs. Hyde has given many years of valuable service in the cause; but as her position is one of patriotic service to the nation, it has been deemed advisable to accept her resignation.
MRS. LALENE H. HART
General Board Member and President of the Canadian Mission Relief Society
May I preface my remarks this morning with these verses:
A LITTLE LAD'S ANSWER
Our little lad came in one day
With dusty shoes and tired feet;
His playtime had been hard and long
Out in the summer's noontide heat.
"I'm glad I'm home," he cried, and hung
His torn straw hat up in the hall,
While in the corner by the door
He put away his bat and ball.
"I wonder why," his auntie said,
"This little lad always comes here
When there are many other homes
Pleasant as this, and quite as near."
He stood a moment, deep in thought,
Then, with the love-light in his eye,
He pointed where his mother sat,
And said: "She lives here; that is why!"
With beaming face the mother heard;
Her mother heart was very glad.
A true, sweet answer he had given?
That thoughtful, little, loving lad.
And well I know that hosts of lads
Are just as loving, true, and dear;
That they would answer as he did:
"'Tis home, for mother's living here."
Two Kinds of People
Too, am happy to be here this morning, because my mother is here, because you mothers are here, and because of the inspiration that this throng of mothers gives to us who have just returned from those other mothers who are trying to live this wonderful gospel. There are two kinds of people in the world?those who can do things, and those who can put up excuses for not getting anything done. When the program of the Relief Society came to me, I wondered which class I should go in. Then I thought of the story of the Master, in the parable of the man who had prepared a great feast and had invited his guests. When the time came for the feast, there were many excuses; the guests did not appear, having other things to do. The Master drew this picture to show us the folly of those who, having the honor of being guests of the Father, yet refuse that call. Our Father, through his servants, has invited me and you to come to this feast, where many things have been prepared that will help us to the fullest realization of our own powers. May we not apply this parable to the work in the Relief Society? After we have been admitted as members, can we afford, as did the guests in the parable, to allow even legitimate or praiseworthy excuses to stand in the way of our loyalty to that organization? The opportunity comes only once. The doors do not stand open always, and just as the host went out into the highways, and brought in the blind, the lame, the halt, to partake of that feast, so if we refuse to be guests of our Father in the things that he has provided for us, he will reach out to those who are seeking for that light and truth which will bring joy and happiness to them.
Loyalty to Country
By the other mission presidents from foreign missions, I feel that we are supremely loyal to this country; but because we are American citizens does not lessen our love and respect for other nations and their citizens. For the Book of Mormon says: "Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it, shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ, who hath been manifested by the things which we have written," I am glad that I live in this choice land, but my love for other people is not lessened because of that. I believe that being a true American citizen makes me better prepared to be a good Canadian citizen, and I want the women who come from Canada, whether from the Canadian Mission or from the stakes of Canada, to know that my love for them is just as great. My heart has been stirred by reading the articles by women in connection with world peace. They have come from women who have lived in war-torn nations, whose hearts have been torn in such a way that they are reaching out to other people. Of all the women of the world, we have it most within our power to bring peace to the world. There are many women working, as we are, on the big problems that are facing the nations. The women of Canada have the same problems to solve as we have?social problems, and the message that comes from other women, and other nations.
The Three Objectives
There are three objectives for us to realize: First, to preach the gospel to every people. We may not talk, we may not say a thing; but the life that we lead is the one thing that proclaims this gospel. If we are living pure lives of happiness and contentment, according to the commandments which the Lord has given then we are preaching the gospel to all people. Second, to develop higher lives among members of the Church. The purpose of the gospel is to help people to rise to higher levels, to develop in them the highest possible attributes; and if we are doing that, we are serving our fellowmen. Third, to develop our community into a fit place for our people to live in. We have wonderful privileges?opportunities as women, and duties as well. The greatest privilege and opportunity that can come to woman, is to perpetuate the race, to be mothers of men, and to establish the destinies of nations. Is not this a wonderful privilege? And should we not respect it? We are responsible, as women, where men have failed. We must go on. The responsibility is with us. To meet these objectives, we must study the life and growth of nations, of people, noting what brought about the rise or the fall of nations, and what were the contributions of people now passed away to the development of the human family and to the world as a whole.
Women are Responsible
Before we shall reach these objectives, we have much to do. We are responsible for the traits, thoughts, and actions of our times. How shall we arrive at these objectives? By living this wonderful gospel, restored to us with all its privileges and opportunities. You mothers who have missionaries in the Canadian mission are preparing them for a greater mission than they have ever had before. The greatest honor that can come to women is motherhood; yet even that does not compare with the monument that our mothers and our young people are building in the boys and girls who go into the mission field to proclaim this wonderful gospel. So, mothers, rejoice in these young men and women because they are monuments to you, everlasting monuments, which will not crumble and decay while that spirit of faith is kept within them.
MRS. EMELINE Y. NEBEKER
Member of General Board
As I occupy this position, a feeling of deep humility and reverence comes over me?humility, because of my inadequacy; reverence, because of the magnitude of this work. "Reverence comes with all we see; God writes his lessons in each flower; And every singing bird or bee Can teach us something of his power."
The Sense of Beauty
That feeling is with us when we are out of doors, in the canyons, or wherever we see God's greatness in Nature; but it should be with us always, within our buildings, within our work, within ourselves. Today, in this building, that feeling is present. In Leviticus, chapter 19, the Lord, speaking unto Moses says: "Ye shall keep my sabbath and reverence my sanctuary; I am the Lord." Have we remembered this commandment? If we have, the minute we step within the walls there is an atmosphere of peace, of awe, of nearness to God. Our members have the opportunity of being helpful and are most helpful, to those less fortunate. Broad tolerance and a kindly spirit are most effective in spreading the doctrine of the brotherhood of man. This spirit, or atmosphere of reverence, we cannot have unless it is within us. We may talk about it, preach about it, write about it; but unless we feel it within, the note does not ring true, and the goal for which we are striving is blurred and sometimes lost to view. The kingdom of God is here. Should we not remember what Paul's Hebrews 12:28 says; "Wherefore we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved, let us have grace, whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear."
MRS. HAZEL H. GREENWOOD
Member of General Board
With the opportunities of the Relief Society I have always been very much impressed. Development comes to us through well directed energy. To develop spiritually we must turn our thoughts to spiritual realities, and lifting our minds above the common things of life, center them on things of God. We may raise our thinking to a higher plane, but force and energy must maintain it there. Spirituality flourishes in an atmosphere of religious thought and action. Constant application to the study of the gospel with prayerful thought and action develops the faith and courage necessary. If religion is applied theology, then true spiritual development comes through application to our lives of religious studies.
How the Mind Grows
Any true development is brought about by systematic thinking and study. By exercise and application of our mental powers we grow mentally. If our mental processes are sluggish, they may be revived by proper varied and selected reading, which brings us to our best, and rouses each faculty to its most vigorous life. "Give me a book, health, and a June day," says Emerson, "and I will make the pomp of kings ridiculous." Women whose lives are given over to home and family duties, often neglect the value of good books, which broaden our horizon and enrich our lives. One of the greatest factors in our development is our social contact. As Webster says, "More than books, more than schools, society educates." Mothers need the relaxation that comes through social contacts, going back to their homes enriched and enlightened. Friendships formed by kindred interests are lasting. The gospel makes us all kin, and in its progress we feel a sense of joy and responsibility. As women we must keep abreast of the times, able to take part along with our husbands and children. How much more companionable a woman can become if she is acquainted with what is going on, and has a rich fund of knowledge and experience.
To Educate the Family
It is said "Educate a man, and you have educated a man; but educate a woman, and you have educated a whole family." How great a responsibility is ours in moulding and directing lives. The Relief Society, founded and directed by divine guidance, gives us spiritual, mental, and social development: spiritual, through its religious studies; mental, through its stimulus; and social through its contacts. Surely it has been in the hands of the Almighty in the making. He has had his eye over it from the beginning, and is directing its destiny. The women who have formulated its policies have been inspired of God. We are caught in the surge of its progress, and will continue to participate in its success.
Organization and Development of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Alice Louise Reynolds, Member General Board
The Beginning of Wisdom
In a Sacred Grove in Fayette, Seneca County, New York, a boy knelt in humility, for he had read the epistle of James which stated: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God; that giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him." That passage gripped the soul of the young man and so he put it to the supreme test. A pillar of light appeared exactly over his head having the brightness of the sun. Enveloped in this light he saw two personages whose brightness and glory defied all description; they were the Father and the Son. The Father calling the boy by name, said: "This is my beloved Son, hear him."
Founding of the Church
On the 6th day of April, 1830, six young men, for the oldest was but 31 years of age, met in the house of Peter Whitmer, Sr., and organized the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. This was to fulfill the legal requirement, because a goodly number were already converts, among them Lucy Mack Smith, the mother of the Prophet's wife, who will always be revered wherever women of the Relief Society assemble. Before the organization of the Church the Angel Moroni had delivered the Sacred Records from which the Book of Mormon was translated. John the Baptist had restored the Aaronic Priesthood: Peter, James and John had placed their hands upon Joseph and Oliver Cowdery, bestowing upon them the Melchizedek Priesthood.
The New Book
The Book of Mormon had been translated in an astonishingly short time, as the first published volume was given to the world in 1830. The first Conference of the Church was held on the 9th of June in Fayette, Seneca County, New York. The Church numbered at that time 27 souls; but there were other persons in attendance, some were friendly, others believed. At this Conference the Sacrament was administered and those recently baptized were confirmed. There were also a number of ordinations to the Priesthood. Yet trouble was in the air, for bitterness was manifested on the part of those who opposed. Yet the work of the Lord progressed. Early in the history of the Church 24 persons were baptized. Among these baptisms we find Jerusha Smith, wife of Hyrum Smith, and Emma Hale Smith, wife of Joseph Smith the Prophet. The record shows that among the very earliest baptisms into the Church thirteen were women?the women exceeding the number of men by 2. From that early date women have heeded the Gospel call, from every part of the earth.
Revelations Received
This was a period when important revelations were being received. Among others in July, 1830, was a revelation to Emma Smith, the wife of Joseph Smith, in which she was called an "Elect Lady" and was directed to assist her husband in writing and to be his scribe, that Oliver Cowdery might be relieved for other duties. Among other things she was called to select hymns for the Church; for said the Lord, "My Soul delighteth in the Song of the Heart, yea the Song of the Righteous is a prayer unto me and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." At this time Joseph Smith was living in Harmony, Pennsylvania, but was forced to leave and take up his residence in Fayette, New York. Even his father-in-law, Isaac Hale, turned against him because of the falsehoods which were circulated and the prejudice existing in the neighborhood.
Temple Site Dedicated
On the 2nd day of August 1831, Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, Sidney Rigdon, Edward Partridge, William W. Phelps, Martin Harris and Joseph Coe were far from home, for they met a little west of the Independence Court house and there dedicated a spot for the Temple of the Latter-days. The locality has since been known as the Center Stake. On the 9th day of August, 1831, Joseph Smith and the Elders who were to return, started on their journey back to Kirtland. On the 25th day of January, 1832, a Conference was held at Amherst, Ohio, where the revelation known as section 75 in the Doctrine and Covenants was given, calling a number of elders to take missions, two by two, in several directions throughout the land. On the 16th of February the vision of the glories was given. March 18, 1833, the First Presidency was organized with Joseph Smith as President and Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams as Counselors. At the Conference of High Priests held May 4, 1833, a committee was appointed to obtain subscriptions to erect a house to be used for a school, where the Elders were to receive instructions before going out to warn the world.
Persecution Arises
By the 1st of June, 1833, preparations for the building of the Kirtland Temple were under way, and the work of the Lord in the State of Ohio was progressing favorably. But trouble was brewing in Jackson County, Missouri. The Saints who had settled there had dreamed of a Zion as foretold in the Old Testament. They had begun to build homes and get located when they discovered that forces were at work that would make Jackson County, Missouri, an impossible place for them. In the spring of 1832 it was decreed that no Mormon should in the future move and settle in that county. The disappointment of the people must have been severe, for they had come into the land by the command of the Lord to receive their inheritance, and it was here that the new city of the great Jerusalem was to be built. What followed is a story of heartache and disappointment which only the blessings of the Lord could make endurable.
Blessings Multiply
In the midst of this hour of trial in Missouri, great blessings awaited the Saints in Kirtland, Ohio. They had completed the Temple, whose architectural stability and beauty is challenging the admiration of the world today. The house was ready for dedication, Brother Phelps had written his soul-stirring hymn, "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning." Sidney Rigdon read two of the most beautiful psalms. The prayer of dedication, which was given by revelation, was presented, and the house was given to the Lord. Angels were present; the Holy Spirit, like the sound of a mighty wind, filled the house and rested upon the assembly. The date of this event was March 27, 1836. Seven days after, on Sunday, April 3, 1836, Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery retired to the pulpit in prayer, the veils being dropped. After rising from their knees the Savior appeared to them, standing on the breastwork of the pulpit and blessed them, accepting the building in his name. After the vision closed, the heavens were again opened and Moses, Elias and Elijah appeared. Moses committed to them the Key of the Gathering of Israel; Elias, the Keys of the Dispensation of Abraham; and Elijah, the Keys in Fulfilment of the prediction of Malachi, which concerned the turning of the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to the fathers.
The Apostasy
Threatening and sinister were the clouds that hung over the Church at the beginning of the year 1838. Apostasy had broken into the ranks, and many faithful defenders of the truth had fallen by the wayside. So bitter became the spirit of opposition in Kirtland that Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon were forced to seek safety in flight. January 12, 1838, they journeyed toward Far West. The spirit of darkness spread from Kirtland to Missouri, and some of the leading brethren became affected. This is the time when the names of the three witnesses were dropped from the Church records. March 6, 1838, a meeting of all the Seventies of Kirtland was held to consider the moving of the Saints to Missouri. There was much discouragement on account of the poverty of the people; however while they were in this meeting the Spirit of the Lord rested upon them and it was made known that they were to journey as a body to Zion. In the meantime the Saints were subjected to much persecution in Missouri. The leaders of the Church were demanded for trial. Joseph Smith, Sidney Rigdon, Lyman White, Parley P. Pratt and George W. Robinson put themselves in the hands of the officers of the law in order to keep Far West from being sacked. An order was issued for the shooting of the Prophet signed by Samuel D. Lucas. A. W. Doniphan replied to this order by saying to his superior. "It is cold blooded murder; I will not obey your command." "My Brigade will march to Liberty tomorrow morning at 8 o'clock, and if you execute these men I will hold you responsible before an earthly tribunal, so help me God."
Escape from Prison
Governor Boggs wrote General Clark to hold a military court in Davies County. Clark spent some time searching the laws to find some authority on which the Prophet and others could be tried for treason. November 28, 1838, Joseph Smith and his fellow prisoners were taken to Liberty, and placed in Liberty Jail. Finally public sentiment became so enraged from the mistreatment of these brethren that those who held them prisoners concocted a plan for their release. They found their way into the State of Illinois. With all three members of the Presidency in prison, the burden of moving the Saints from Missouri was placed on the shoulders of Brigham Young. Then came the founding of Nauvoo, the city beautiful. Friday, May 10, 1839, President Joseph Smith took up his residence in a small log house on the banks of the Mississippi. The city had been known as Commerce, but it was soon changed to the City of Nauvoo, which was incorporated in December, 1840. The missionary work was extended, and arrangements were made to publish both the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants in England. April 6, 1841, the 11th anniversary of the organization of the Church, the cornerstone of the Nauvoo Temple was laid. March 17th, 1842, the female Relief Society of Nauvoo was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Emma Smith was chosen President with Elizabeth Ann Whitney and Sarah M. Cleveland as counselors. Threats of mob vengeance were again in the air, On Saturday, August 6, 1842, President Joseph Smith prophesied that the Saints would continue to suffer much affliction and would be driven to the Rocky Mountains.
The Martyrdom
May 25, 1844, Joseph Smith was indicted at Carthage; when they reached their destination Foster told Joseph Smith of the conspiracy against his life. The same spirit that had caused so much suffering in Missouri was rampant in Illinois. At a meeting of the City Council, held June 10th, after full consideration, the Expositor was declared a public nuisance and was ordered to be abated. Under martial law. In the general disturbance the prophet tried as an expedient, leaving Nauvoo, but some of his brethren accusing him of cowardice, urged him to return; a move which ended in both Joseph and Hyrum being taken to Carthage jail. Now the name of Governor Ford flashes into the limelight. On June 27th, at five in the morning, the prison was attacked by an armed mob. A shower of bullets was poured into the room, Hyrum fell, and the Prophet exclaimed, "O, Brother Hyrum." As Joseph sprang into the window, two balls pierced him from the door and one entered his right breast from without. He fell outward into the hands of his murderers, exclaiming, "O Lord! My God." The saints, with heads bowed with grief?for the greatest sorrow of all their history had come to them?wept and prayed. On June 28, 1844, the bodies of the martyred prophets were taken to Nauvoo by Willard Richards and Samuel H. Smith. On the morning of the 29th they were interred amidst the deep mourning of a stricken people. Then came the hour of transfiguration, often related to Relief Society officers by their beloved President Emmeline B. Wells, when Brigham Young was recognized as the leader of the people.
The Journey Westward
When February 4, 1846, the first of the Saints left Nauvoo and crossed the Mississippi River on the journey to the West, for it was evident that Nauvoo, like Kirtland and Far West, must be abandoned. The historic trek across the plains has given the Mormon Pioneers a unique place in history. The great organizing power of Brigham Young and others about him have made Utah a place sought for by students, and Salt Lake City is looked upon as the metropolis of this intermountain country, to which people have gathered for years for education, music and drama. Brigham Young is looked upon as a great and distinguished American and his leadership is admired and extolled by sociologists and community builders wherever his work is known.
The Prophet's Mother
Mrs. Ethel R. Smith, Member of General Board
Within the ranks of God's soldiery are none more brave, none more heroic, yea none who endure more of the heat and the brunt of the battle than do the courageous and loyal-hearted wives and mothers who remain at home to cope with the serious problems of life, and to bear the responsibilities of the family while the husband is engaged in the ministry. When we understand this, we fully appreciate the tenderness and sincerity of heart, the purity and nobility of soul, revealed in woman?"God's masterpiece of creation."?Ben E. Rich.
Mother of a Prophet
Pulsing through the pages of early church history are life stories of brave, heroic women who stood side by side with men and suffered with them for the sake of the Gospel. First and foremost was Lucy Smith, mother of the Prophet. Undoubtedly before she entered this life she was chosen for this great mission. Well was he mothered. She was a remarkable personage?a woman of great power and force of character, commanding in appearance, dignified and gracious in manner, and possessing a very keen intellect. Deeply spiritual, she was also, and capable, with a tender love of all humanity. It has been said of her that so great was her wisdom and her ability to express herself, so great was the light that shone from her glorious eyes, that it was considered a privilege to call upon her, that one felt when in her presence a sort of reverence. Called of God to be the mother of the man who restored to us the plan of eternal life, all honor is due her as a woman.
