Text Book for the Course in Literature
Manager Hooper of the Deseret News Book Store has been receiving some requests for the Text Book on Short Stories to be used next year in the Literary work. The Deseret News Book Store is not handling the books for the Relief Society; special arrangements having been made with D. C. Heath and Company, whereby the organizations may obtain the book for $2.88 by sending to San Francisco. The Deseret News cannot possibly sell the book for $2.88 as they have to pay D. C. Heath and Company that price and then add freight and postage and other costs,?consequently they must charge $3.60 plus postage for the Book. We do not wish members of our organization to feel that if they insist on buying their books at the Deseret News Book Store that they are being imposed upon, they are not. The Deseret News Book Store has always aimed to give the Relief Society good service in every respect. We wish to make an appeal to the organizations not to send to D. C. Heath and Company for books to be delivered C. O. D. The exact price of the book is known, which should be forwarded to the publishers to save them billing the books out. We wish the Stakes would find out how many books they will need and then send for them altogether accompanied by Money Order or Check.
PARENTS?YOUR PROBLEM SOLVED
The problem of selecting a college with which to entrust the business training of your sons and daughters is of the utmost importance. Human lives are involved?your own flesh and blood?and the training received will become an inseparable part of those lives. If good it will bring success and honor; if poor it will prove a handicap for life. The development of character is the chief aim of all education, and you want to be sure that your sons and daughters will be surrounded by good influences. You want them to gain in business integrity as well as in knowledge and technical ability, and no matter how good their home training has been their character will be influenced by the environment in which they receive their business education.
