When it was found that these stopping places would be occupied for some time as they started west, schools were established, land fenced, crops planted, and houses built. The women kept alive the spirit of home, and the niceties of life. Social standards were not forgotten. At Mt. Pisgah, Lorenzo Snow's wife draped the walls of her rude log cabin with white sheets (carefully preserved), hollowed out turnips which she tacked to the walls, and used as candle holders, sprinkled fresh straw upon the dirt floor, and received her guests with great dignity. After an evening of refined entertainment she served refreshments consisting of succotash, At first sickness and death were so prevalent that there were scarcely enough well to bury the dead. At this time a young couple and their children stopped to get together more supplies. He planted a garden and hurried to build a log cabin, for they were expecting another child very soon. He became ill, but would not give up until the roof was on his house. Even then he went out to plant more seed, for they were determined to start the journey west next spring. He fell in the field and was carried to his cabin, terribly ill with fever. His young wife got up from her bed with her new born child, and watched him die. Her children were ill too, except five year old Susan. The widow begged that her husband be buried in a coffin, so many being just wrapped in a blanket. Kind neighbors secured a wagon box, from which a rude coffin was made, and little Susan followed her father to the grave, the only one of the family able to do so.
Examples of Heroism
By and by the young mother regained her strength. As soon as she was able, she took Susan by the hand and together they wandered over the hillside, day after day searching for her husband's grave; but it was never found. There was no mark, and the child had forgotten. She did not despair, but gathered her crops, picked and dried berries and nuts from the forest, dried squash and corn, and stored them up for the long journey. The children picked wool off the brush left there by sheep that had passed through. Out of this she spun and wove and knitted until there was clothing enough. Finally she was ready. She and her children started out. Little Susan took her brother's hand, and together they walked the entire way across the plains. In the same company there was a cultured gentleman, too weak to walk, so his beautiful young wife gave up the wagon to him, walking by its side, comforting and caring for him as best she could. When a buffalo was killed, she would exchange her share of the meat for a few crackers, a little fruit, or some dainty that her sick husband could eat. Her little daughter became ill and died. Wrapped in a shawl, the little one was buried by the roadside. To add to the anguish of the mother, she could see the wolves watching from a distance. She knew what would happen when they went on, for she had noticed many an emptied grave as they had come along.
Incidents of the Journey
Yet life was not all sorrow. In the evenings there were songs, dancing and games; and many a joke was cracked at their own expense. The strictest order was observed; camps were kept clean. President Young was very strict on the matter of sanitation. The women of course did their full share in this work, and it was because of their presence that cleanliness, order, and the niceties of life were observed. The women did a great deal in helping to keep up the morale and courage of the companies. No traveling was done on Sundays. Religious services were held, and "Come, Come Ye Saints, no toil nor labor fear, but with joy wend your way" floated over the vast lonesome plains. Sometimes circumstances demanded a sternness of woman foreign to her nature. This was the case with an English widow who, with her two sons, ages 14 and 16, were making their way across the plains in the handcart company. One day her eldest boy lay down by their cart, and said that he could go no farther. It was at this stage of the journey a common occurrence for someone, weakened from lack of food and worn out by toil, to give up and die.
A Mother's Strength
A group gathered around, and the mother came up. There lay her son, her main reliance; and he had given up. In this crisis, she sensed that extreme measures must be used. "Get up," she commanded, "I did not bring you here to die on the plains; you are going to Zion." Then she gave him a stinging slap in the face. He was 16, and to be slapped by his mother in public made his blood boil. He needed no other stimulant. He jumped to his feet and pushed the cart along vigorously. For three days his anger kept him going. When a white-haired man, he maintained that this stern act of his mother saved his life. If she had weakened, he never could have gone on. They slept on the frozen ground, waded through the snow, and nearly starved before they reached their destination; but his mother's spirit and courage never wavered.
Parting With Sons and Husbands
One of the greatest trials of the women on the plains was parting from their sons and husbands who enlisted in the Mormon Battalion. Although they cheered them with honor, many a woman was brokenhearted, and for some it was farewell forever. Alice Morrill's description of the pioneer mother fits these women: "Behold her busy at her task, no thought to turn aside nor shirk, Her faith but dignifies her toil, her hope but sanctifies her work. No thought to falter by the way; nor wish to rest from weary toil: A selfless life?no weak reproach nor plaint of cares and ceaseless moil."
The Pioneer Woman
While the women on the plains carried with them the spirit of home, they also carried what they could of the culture of the race. In a barrel of beans, or a bag of wheat, in fact in any available place, they tucked away precious books, a bit of rare china, a piece of real lace, some fine clothes, so that in the far-away new home things of beauty and culture should not be forgotten. The first school teacher, when they arrived at their destination, was a woman. At the World's Fair, at San Francisco, there was a statue in honor of the pioneer woman; on the pedestal was the following inscription: "Over rude paths beset with hunger and risk, she pressed on toward the vision of a better country; to an assemblage of men busied with the perishable rewards of the day she brought the threefold leaven of enduring society?faith, gentleness, and home, with the nurture of children." These three things, our pioneer women, as they toiled across the plains, contributed to the Church and to society. Without the courage, endurance, and sacrifices of these women, this commonwealth in the Rocky Mountains could not have been established. One of our own women speaks thus of the pioneer woman: "The damp earth floor whereon she ate a shrine of worship comes to be; Her plain, hard fare becomes to her a sacrament of sanctity. A priestess she?and prophetess of far-off future glorious years, When bloom of beauty shall unfold at last, deep watered by her tears."
Women in the West
Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Member of General Board
We read in the Book of Isaiah: "The wilderness, and the solitary place, shall be glad for them; and the desert shall rejoice, and blossom as the rose. "It shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice even with joy and singing: the glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it, the excellency of Carmel and Sharon; they shall see the glory of the Lord, and the excellency of our God. For in the wilderness shall waters break out, and streams in the desert. And the parched ground shall become a pool, and the thirsty land springs of water. "And an highway shall be there, and a way, and it shall be called, The way of holiness." Today we have been looking back into other years, and in pictured words have seen forms and faces of the past; in retrospection we have lived again the scenes of long ago. I would ask you now to look back one hundred years, and view this desert land, barren and desolate it lay in its great silence, no sound but the chirp of the cricket or the rattle of the deadly snake as he wound his way through the purple sage. So for ages it had lain, waiting the advent of some master hand to turn the sun-baked soil and moisten its dry parched surface with a cooling drink. It was on a hot afternoon in late July, when through the gateways of the eastern hills, came a train of covered wagons bearing a group of refugees. As they halted on the hillside they looked down upon this waiting valley. The great pioneer leader looked and pronounced the ever memorable words, "This is the place." There were in that train three women?Clara Decker Young, Ellen Saunders Kimball and Harriet Decker Young. We know not what they thought as they looked over the desert to the shimmering lake beyond, but this we know, they came with their husbands down into the valley to begin to make a home. They knew too, that following in the trail this first company of exiles had made, were thousands of driven refugees, to whom almost any place to end the weary journey and begin anew was welcome. For: "Long was the journey o'er the trackless way, Rivers to ford and mountain steeps to climb. Nor pen nor painter can the scene portray, A monument it stands throughout all time." Long trains of covered wagons followed bringing women from the rocky shores of New England, from the hills, and dales of Ohio, from the prairies of Missouri, from the plains of Illinois; women from the southern states, and from far across the sea; from England, and Scotland's highland clans, from Wales, the Isle of Man, and Ireland; from the fertile Netherlands; from Scandinavia and the Northland, land of the midnight sun; from the Rhineland, and the snowy Alps; dark-eyed women from the southland, from sunny France; still and still they come, dusky women from the South Seas all gather to this mountain land, here to build a nation. Another devout and faithful train followed the covered wagons. Hundreds walked across the plains, pushing heavily laden handcarts. The plan was crude and the hardships many, and even now it is always through a mist of tears we recall that journey. Many perished by the wayside, but those who made the valley became valiant workers in the building of the West. It may seem out of place to mention names when there are none among these wonderful women who came in the pioneer days but were heroines in very deed, yet: "In God's blue realms of space Sometimes a single star Sends forth its brilliant glow To other realms afar." So always there must be leaders around whom cluster others to help and reflect each endeavor. Pioneer life at best has its hardships, and this people driven into the wilderness had of necessity to be self-supporting. The women helped with their own hands to mould the adobe or put in place the rough sawn log that gave them shelter, planted gardens, fought with all their might the crickets and other pests that came to molest them; moulded candles, boiled soap; carded, spun and wove the wool and cotton into linsey cloth to clothe themselves and little ones. These tasks were some of the stepping stones along the way to better things. Home industry became second nature, and later, when organized into the Relief Society, under the leadership of Eliza R. Snow, there were many activities introduced marking an onward progress along the way.
Nursing and Midwifery
One of the first necessities was a school for nurses and midwives, for all this time women were having their families and needed proper care. Many good women engaged in this work, and the Lord blessed their ministrations among the sick, for few lives were lost. With the increase in population, and extending the colonization, it became necessary to train more women for this purpose, and Romania B. Pratt (Penrose) was sent to an Eastern college to study medicine, especially midwifery and obstetrics. Others followed, and hundreds of domestic nurses were trained and went out in the different communities to wait upon the sick. The Deseret Hospital was established and supported by the Relief Society for the furtherance of this cause.
Silk Industry
As home industry was a part of everyday life, the call to plant mulberry trees and engage in sericulture was readily responded to by the women, and with such success that Utah silk was pronounced by experts as fine of texture and quality as that raised in France or China. Zina D. H. Young was the great leader in this movement.
Woman's Store
For the encouragement of women in fine needlework and domestic arts, a woman's store and exchange was established, where also temple clothing was made and sold and cared for, and an employment office for women was conducted. Heading this movement was Mary Isabella Horne, a wise and efficient pioneer mother.
Suffrage
Advancement and progress along the way marks every step, and Utah women were enfranchised by legislative enactment, and exercised the suffrage in the early making of the state. The leading women met in small groups and studied political science and parliamentary law, thus fitting themselves for the honors of high office or legislative work when such time might come. Most prominent in this suffrage work stand foremost the names of Sarah M. Kimball, Emmeline B. Wells, Emily S. Richards, Electa Bullock and Julia P. M. Farnsworth.
The Exponent and Magazines
Women engaged in so many activities felt the need of an organ to further their work. Under the fine leadership of Eliza R. Snow and her associates, a paper named The Woman's Exponent was established. Louisa Green (Richards) was called to be the editor of this little paper, the first woman's paper in the intermountain country. Mrs. Richards withdrew after two years service, and for forty years this magazine was published and edited by Emmeline B. Wells. Within its bound volumes are priceless histories of the women of the Church, of the West, and of the world. Its columns were used to encourage literary talent among the Latter-day Saint women, and among its contributors one reads familiar names of those who have achieved much in poetry and in prose. After the organization of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, they too, needed a magazine, and the Young Woman's Journal was established and edited by Mrs. Susa Young Gates. This was followed by the Children's Friend, the publication of the Primary Association, under the direction of Mrs. Louie B. Felt and Miss May Anderson.
Wheat
The great leader, Brigham Young, called upon the women to glean, gather and store grain, and placed at the head of this unique movement Emmeline B. Wells. To women who had fought the crickets and grasshoppers, who had lived on sego and thistle roots, the word conservation was not new, neither did they question the authority that bade them store grain against a day of famine. The Relief Society carried on this work for many years; granaries were built and thousands of bushels of wheat were stored. Practically all the women of the Church had a part in this undertaking, especially Relief Society ward presidents. When the World War came, and the wheat was needed and called for, you were ready to hand it over to the government to feed the army and the hungry. The golden kernels were not lost to us, but value received from the government, the interest of which you now may use in promoting health programs for the encouragement of motherhood and the relief of the afflicted.
Education
Within the walls of the Old Fort, in Pioneer Square, Mary Jane Dilworth (Hammond), taught the first school. A tent for covering, half sawn logs for benches, no books, no charts, no maps: from the tent to the log cabin, from the cabin to the little red school house famous in song and story, and now the most convenient, finely equipped elementary and high schools, colleges, seminaries, universities and libraries, with marble halls and classic columns where you may glean from rare books and works of art and science all the knowledge of the world. What a heritage is ours as we mark these stepping stones along the way. Truly has the wilderness blossomed for us, and in the desert are springs of living water. The Latter-day Saint women have walked along this great highway of faith and holiness, have drunk at the fountain of industry, devotion and charity. We may not yet have reached the heights our fathers and mothers idealized, but the way lies clear before us, and: "Today majestic as a queen you stand, The culture of the ages in your hand, The courage of the pioneers upon you rests, The strength of motherhood within your breasts; These all adorn you like a jewelled crest, Fairest of God's daughters, Glorious woman of the West."
The Children of Others
Miss May Anderson, President of the Primary Association
Like a little child who has listened to a marvelous story I feel today. Those of you who have tried to tell stories to children, know you have been successful if when the end comes you hear a great sigh. A good story gives you that feeling, but it has another wonderful virtue. You have listened to marvelous things; now what are you going to do? As a representative of the children's organization of the Church, I am happy to say that we have now, at the end of one hundred years, the possibilities of marvelous growth. We have heard today of the beginning, of steps on the way. As each page has unfolded, we have marveled. What will be the story at the end of another period? About 14,000 women in the Church today are voluntarily giving their time to tell the boys and girls these marvelous stories, helping them to understand what the gospel is, what it asks, what it demands?14,000 women who are leading more than 100,000 boys and girls, all learning this kind of lesson. The Lord has blest us in listening to the marvelous story given to us in these two meetings; and now we can say this is the story of the past, of the present, and, please God, it shall not dim in the days to come.
Woman's Contribution to the Church
President Heber J. Grant
Without the wonderful work of the women I realize that the Church would have been a failure. The mother in the family far more than the father, is the one who instills into the hearts of the children, a testimony and a love for the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Our fathers and mothers came here in early days for the one and only thing?to serve the Lord, and to labor for the salvation of humanity; and wherever you find a woman who is devoted to this work, almost without exception you will find that her children are devoted to it.
What We Owe to Mothers
She shapes their lives more than the father, because he is away much more; his associations in the world take him away from the family circle; so that to our mothers we owe everything. I, of course, owe everything to my mother, because my father died when I was only nine days of age; and the marvelous teachings, the faith, the integrity of my mother have been an inspiration to me. It fell to my lot to spend many hours, as a child, in the society of Eliza R. Snow. In her room in the Lion House I have spent hours listening to her relate her experiences with the Prophet Joseph; and more from her than from any other woman, except only my own mother, I gained inspiration. It has been my lot to be associated with her and with all the leaders of the Relief Society work, my mother being president for some thirty odd years of the 13th Ward Society. She had to resign eventually because of an almost complete loss of her hearing.
Generosity of Woman
It is more blessed to give than to receive, and the women are always ready and willing to give, more than the men are. There is a willingness to sacrifice on the part of our dear sisters, and of women generally, all over the world, that we do not find in men; they are leaders in all things that make for spiritual uplift. Time is precious, and I have come here only to ask God to bless you abundantly. The leaders who are engaged in the Relief Society and the Mutual, and all of the organizations therein, have the love and confidence of the Presidency of the Church. We pray for them. In our meetings we always pray for the Executive Officers of the auxiliary organizations; also in my silent prayers I do not believe I ever forget to pray for those men and women who stand at the head of these organizations. May the Spirit of the living God be your guide continually is my humble prayer; and I ask it in the name of the Redeemer.
A Word in Closing
President Louise Y. Robison
May you all feel blessed, realizing that this is a beautiful preparation for the feast in store for us during the next few days. I trust that you are comfortably settled, you sisters from out of town. If you are inconvenienced, try not to let the physical discomfort overcome the spiritual blessings that you can receive during this event, which can come only once in our lives. Let us take from this conference, not only today, but especially from the General Conference, where the Priesthood of the living God will preside, an inspiration to our homes that will make us better women, better mothers, for the strength that we shall receive. We are glad to have the beautiful things said about the women that have been said today, but we can only continue to deserve this praise by making an effort. I pray that our Heavenly Father will bless you and your families from whom you are separated; and that his peace may be with us, I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ.