Vol. 33			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY, 1904			No. 2.


CONTENTS.

Relief Society Reports..........................		
,

Homeward Bound........................C.P.G.	

Foreign Letter...................Lydia D. Alder 	

In Memoriam...........................................	

Mothers’ Work......................................... 	

General Retrenchment Meeting...............	

EDITORIAL—In Memoriam................... 	

	Helen Woodruff.................................  	

	Apostle Woodruff.............................. 	

	Pioneer Day, July, 1904..................... 	

	Mrs. Horne at Home..........................  	

	Ninth Ward R. S. Reunion................. 	

	Annual Meeting R. S. Cannon........... 	

	Editorial Note.....................................  	

POETRY—Deep In the Heart.,..................
..........................................Clara Ingles Frost	

The Legend of the Purple Iris,.......Selected


DEEP IN THE HEART.
A woman's heart was one day laid bare,
That others might its secrets share.
It told of deeds both great and good,
Of temptations met and nobly withstood,
Of sacrifice made, of work completed,
Of truth, and love, and despair defeated;
Of battles gallantly fought and won,
And of perfect faith in the Father and Son.

A woman's heart was one day laid bare,
That others might its secrets share.
But oh! what stories this heart contained!
Stories, so dark its readers gained—
A knowledge of sin and unbelief,
Which caused them to turn away in grief.

Both of those hearts that day laid bare,
Had each received a plentiful share,
Of faith, hope, mercy, truth and love
From the Father, with whom they dwelt
	above.
One came to earth, and her gifts did treas-
	ure,
The other thought only of self and pleasure, 
So one heart became like purified gold,
While one grew small, and cruel, and cold.
				GRACE INGLES FROST.


THE LEGEND OF THE PURPLE IRIS.
On the cross the dying Savior,
	Hung in bitter grief and pain,
While His friends and kinsfolk lingered
	Near Him in their anguish vain.

'Neath the cross an iris blossomed,
	Decked in radiant gold and white,
And she bent her head in ter[-]or,
Folded all her petals bright.

"From this hour," she whispered sadly,
	I will wear a purple veil,
Token of eternal mourning—
	And who see shall learn the tale.

"And when autumn comes to ripen
	Fruits and seeds through all the land,
And the golden sheaves are garnered,
By the reaper's careful hand,

Then my triple pod shall open
	And a blood-red cross display,
Emblem of my Master’s Passion
	On this dark and awful day.”

So since then her golden chalice
	Wears a veil of sombre hue,
Telling of her love unending 
	And her grief forever new.

And her triple pods that open 
	At the autumn's icy breath,
Still display the blood-red emblem
	Of the Savior’s love and death.
			SELECTED.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
	ST. GEORGE.
Dear Editor:
	We held our Relief Society conference
June 26, 1904. Apostle Rudger Clawson
and Brother Henry McCune, also the presi-
dency of the stake, Edward Snow and coun-
selors, present, and gave us some good
instructions. President Snow gave us a
great deal of eneouragement, he thought
that once a year we could be represented
in the tabernacle, so you see we are gain-
ing ground. The Lord has the work in
hand; all we have to do is to do right. He
will do the rest. My heart swells with
gratitude to my heavenly Father for His
loving kindness that He has preserved us in
the truth, that He has counted us worthy to
have a name and standing with His people.
I often wonder how many of this people
realize what a blessing it is to them and
their children to live in these peaceful vales.
The trials of life are nothing when we en.
joy the Spirit of the Lord. When we think
of the condition of the world and the little
hope they have for the future.
	Give my kind love to Annie and family,
and accept the same yourself and Sister
Lambert when you see her. I trust you
are well. I know you are busy. May
the Lord bless you with life and health and
every righteous desire of yonr heart is the
wish of your loving sister.
		ANN C. WOODBURY,
President of the Relief Society St. George
		Stake.
	NEBO STAKE.
	The annual conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Nebo Stake was held in the
Payson tabernacle, President Lylius C. Page
presiding. Visiting sisters present—Mary
Alice C. Lambert and Carrie S. Thomas
from Salt Lake City. Sister Josephine
Peterson reported Payson First ward. Own
a meeting house and had started to build a
granary. Sister Christina Ellworth reported
the Second ward, Payson. Sisters donated
freely, owned granary, had 750 bushels of
wheat. Sister Carrie Holt reported the
First ward society, Spanish Fork. Sister
Pace Second ward, Spanish Fork, reported
that society—owned a meeting house and
have granary nearly completed. Sister
Mary Hallam, Spanish Fork Third ward
society— have about 27 widows, have about
199 bushels of wheat on hand, have donat-
ed $8.00 to the Woman's Building. Sister
Swenson reported Fourth ward society,
Spanish Fork—own meeting house and
granary. Paid $25.00 for Woman's Build-
ing, gathered Sunday eggs to the amount
of $92.00.
	Sister Mary A. Lambert, missionary of
the General Board, was pleased with the
reports given in, and especially those about
the wheat, encouragod the sisters to teach
the children to observe the Sabbath day,
teach them by example as well as precept;
wives should respect their husbands, teach
the children to pay their tithing and honor
their parents. Sister Bathsheba W. Smith
sends her love to the sisters, she is a lovely

[Column 2]
woman; spoke of the blessings received in
working in the Temple.
	Counselor Henry Gardner spoke of the
great benefit of the Relief Society, and en-
couraged the sisters to keep on in the good
work.
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas, member of the
General Board, spoke of the beautiful flow-
ers; but thought they were not half so beau-
tiful as the faces of the sisters; was pleased
with the reports; said how pleased Sister
Smith would be to know how united the
sisters all are.
	Sister Page invited all to stay for lunch.
Benediction by President Page.
	Afternoon session, Sister Page presiding.
After the opening exercises a song was
sung by Esther Coombs. Sister Page called
for more reports. Sister Ferguson reported
the Lake Shore society. The Leland so-
ciety reported by Sister Chisholm—the sis-
ters are all united, it is a new ward. Ben-
jamin society, reported by Sister Bingham
—the sisters are all united, but are so
scattered; own a granary, and are quite
earnest in taking care of the sick. Sister
Ball recited "Somebody's Mother."
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas said she would like
to speak about the nurses' class, which she
did at some length, hoped we would be
able to send some from our stake; read a
letter of instructions from Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith; spoke of woman's work.
	Sister M.A. Lambert spoke of the nurses'
class and the Woman's Building. Said we
should have confidence in our children and
impress upon their minds the value of
prayer; we should be saviors upon mount
Zion to bless every one.
	Sister Lucy Dixon recitsd “At a Stylish
Church.”
	The officers of the General Board and of
the Nebo Stake Relief Society were unan-
imously sustained.
	Stake Counselor Hyrum Lemmon spoke
of the duties of the Relief Society in taking
care of the sick and poor, also the plan of
having nurses to take care of our sick,
should all be united.
	Sister Dixon said the sisters of the Lake
Shore ward had invited us to come there
for our next conference, and we would ad-
journ this conference for three months, to be
held at Lake Shore. Read a sentiment and
urged all to think of the nurses' class, and
try and get some to go and take that course.
	Benediction by Sister Mary Roberts.
		HATTIE WRIDE, Cor. Sec.
	BEAR LAKE.
	The annual conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Bear Lake Stake convened in the
Bloomington meeting house at 2 p.m., July
9, 1904, President Julia P. Lindsay presid-
ing.
	President Lindsay addressed the sisters:
“We have claim upon the blessings of the
Lord. and we shall not be left to ourselves;
though we have not any visitors, we can
hear many good things from our sisters
in Bear Lake: It is necessary to obtain
that which we need for our sustenance, but
we should not allow all our time to be used
in our temporal labors, the spiritual food is


[Column 1]
also necessary for our welfare. God reigns
supreme.” She felt grateful for the pros-
perity that surrounded the Saints.
	Verbal reports as follows: Bloomington,
President S. Patterson; Liberty, President
M. Morgan; Sharon, President E. Miles;
Montpelier, President Agnes Pearce; Ben-
nington, President M.Van Orman; George-
town, Jeanet Thibets; Raymond, President
Martha Hart.
	Counselor Mary Bagley had noted the de-
votion manifested by the presidents. Would
not be deprived of attending Relief Society
if it were possible to attend for all this
world’s goods. The influence felt in asso-
ciating together is a power for good; enu-
merated many of the blessings received by
attending and being energetic in the per-
formance of duties, such as visiting the
sick, administering comfort to those around
us both by word and deed. Had the priv-
lege recently of listening to a sister who
lived in the days of the Prophet Joseph and
who was also a member of the first Relief
Society.
	Sister Sarah A. Allred, of the Stake Pres-
dency of Young Ladies, thought we were
all laboring for the same goal, should be
willing to divide our substance with those
who are less fortunate, charitable to all
God’s children, and pray for all regardless
of color or creed.
	Stake Missionary Elnora Austin felt that
it is good to have a clear conscience; it is a
great satisfaction to feel that we are trying
to keep the laws of God, Felt like trying
to overcome her weaknesses.
	Bishop Alma Findlay spoke on the object
of this probation. There is no reason why
we should not be happy, the Gospel brings
joy to the heart.
	President J. P. Lindsay expressed her
gratitude for the good advice and instruc-
tion given and for the Holy Spirit made
manifest. Prayer by Elder John Bagley.
	Relief Society officers’ meeting, July 10,
1904.
	Verbal reports not given on Saturday
were given: Fish Haven,by President Jessie
Nelson; St. Charles by President Sarah A.
Young; Wardboro and Dingle were report-
ed by President J. P. Lindsay, who with
other stake officers had recently visited, had
also filled vacancies where needed; Ovid,by
President Mary Jensen; Paris, First ward,
by President Jane Stucki; Paris. Second
ward, by President Sarah Ashley; Lanark,
by Counselor Sarah A. Ludlum; Cokeville,
by President J. Lindsay.
	President William Budge was pleased to
see the interest manifested by the attend-
ance. The reports have been interesting.
Should take care of the grain; good grana-
ries should be built. It would not be wis-
dom to donate wheat unless it can be pre-
served for our use in time of need. The
spirit of disobedience and independence is
growing among our children and young
people; they neglect their meetings and
other duties. Felt pleased to offer words of
encouragement to all who are devoted to
this noble work.
	Sunday afternoon, July 10.1904, 2 p. m.
	Meeting was presided over by Bishop
Alma Findlay until after the administration
of the Sacrament.
	President Julia Lindsay then conducted
the meeting and addressed a large congre-
gation in relation to our object in meeting
in conference. She earnestly solicited the
prayers of those present that she might
have wisdom and strength to instruct her
sisters. We have additional work in our

[Column 2]
society—that is, the Mothers Work. Asked
the young ladies to come and take advan-
tage of these opportunities, they are espec-
ially prepared for those who are raising
children. We can accomplish much good
if we are only united.
	President Nancy E. Pugmire, of the Y.
L. M. I. A. said, ‘‘It is a pleasant thought
to know that we are all true to the Gospel.
If we endure to the end we will be saved;
we should try and get all the sunshine into
our souls that is possible. We will be
known by the company we keep. Thought
that many of the parents were too indulg-
ent; we are ambitious for our children.
There is nothing that will bring us greater
satisfaction than a well spent life.
	Sister Elnora Austin said the Relief So-
ciety has a work among the young people
in trying to keep them in subjection to the
proper influences and not allow them to run
at large at all hours of the night.
	Sister Amelia Hoge endorsed the re-
marks made upon the government of our
children. Mothers should instruct their
daughters to become good wives and moth-
ers, that they may understand the rules
and regulations of a model home.
	Bishop W. W. Clark felt like supporting
the organization; they are indeed filling
their mission as a Relief Society. Missed
from our midst Sister E. Hart.  Pleased to
see sisters uncover their heads in religious
services. Many other valuable remarks
were given.
	Sister Mary Bagley said we should look
after those who are weak in the faith.
Jesus came to heal the sick. It is our duty
to look after those who are sick in body,
also in spirit, and comfort the distressed by
kind and encouraging words.
	Closing prayer by Bishop Alma Findlay.
LOUISE TUELLER, Cor. Secretary-
	PIONEER STAKE.
The first quarterly conference of the
Pioneer Stake Relief Society was held on
Jnne 9th, in the Seventh Ward Assembly
rooms, President Annie Wells Cannon pre-
siding. Commenced at 10 a.m. There
were present on the stand besides the reg-
ular stake officers, Sisters Phebe Y. Beatie
and Carrie S. Thomas of the General
Board and President Annie S. Musser and
counselors of Liberty Stake, President Mar-
garet Romney of Ensign Stake, Sister Mary
Alice Lambert and others. There was a
fine attendance of members and a splendid
spirit prevailed.
	After the opening exercises, the ward
presidents reported the condition of the
several branches of the stake, and then fol-
lowed some interesting remarks by Sister
Beatie, pertaining principally to the Relief
Society nurse work. She gave much valu-
able instruction in regard to the selecting
of young women for this work and also as
to the care of them by friends, in homes
when they come from outside settlements.
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas spoke on the
same subject, and referred to the charges of
nurses. Said she knew “the laborer was
worthy of his hire,” still the Latter-day
Saint women must have care, and the
nurse ought not to expect more than
the husband’s wage's for her services; that
she thought there should be a reasonable
arrangement made concerning the prices
for nurses. Spoke interestingly on the
mother's work and said by Relief Society
work we associated ourselves with the very
best women, and always received fine op-
portunities of mingling where the Spirit of

[Column 3]
the Lord abounded.
	President Musser addressed the meeting,
and spoke quite interestingly about her own
stake work and her newly aroused interest
in Relief Society work.
	President Annie W. Cannon urged the
sisters to heed the good counsel given and
spoke especially about the progress of the
Relief Society work, and how we kept on
reaching after new ideas and introducing
new lines of work; that the women of Zion
were always bringing forth new interests,
and that our work was given us through
inspiration, even as we were organized by
inspiration; that when President Brigham
Young called Sister Romania B. Pratt to go
away and study medicine, it was the open-
ing of a new era for our women. He saw
the great necessity among the people for
intelligent women doctors, and he placed
this mission upon her, to prepare herself
and to teach others, that there might be less
suffering and sorrow among the women of
Zion, and now we not only have women
physicians, but trained nurses throughout
the stakes of Zion. It is not in the City
where the want of good, intelligent care is
felt so much as in the outlying settlements,
and we must open our homes to these girls
who come here to learn nursing for the
benefit of our sisters.
	After singing and prayer, the meeting
took a recess until two o’clock.
	At two in the afternoon the sisters re-
assembled, and the hall was filled. On the
stand, beside the stake officers, were Pres-
dent McLachlan and Counselers Sylvester
Q. Cannon and Charles H. Hyde of Pioneer
Stake, and we were also honored by the
presence of the General President of the
Relief Society, Bathsheba W. Smith, and
the General Secretary, Emmeline B. Wells,
also Sister Julina L. Smith of the General
Board, besides Presidents Musser and Rom-
ney, Sister Thomas and others.
	After the opening exercises, SisterCannon
introduced Sister Bathsheba W, Smith, the
General President, snd the only person liv-
ing who was present at the organization of
the Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph
Smith. President Smith spoke briefly of her
great interest and devotion to Relief Society
and Temple work, and read some instruc-
tions given by the Prophet Joseph to the
Saints. She bore a strong testimony of the
truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Julina Smith followed and spoke
about raising our children in the princi-
pses of the Gospel, and the great help we
had now through the Primary, Sunday
School and Improvement work.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells then spoke at
some length about Relief Society work in
its different and interesting branches. Spoke
of the great good the sisters had done;
related some reminiscences of Kirtland and
Nauvoo. Spoke oi the Relief Society as
the first auxiliary organization in the
Church, therefore standing next to the
priesthood.
	Miss Ruth Dahlquist then sang a solo,
after which President McLachlan spoke to
the sisters very interestingly indeed, nnd
gave excellent advice about attending their
meetings punctually and regularly, and
said he fully realized the great benefit of
the Relief Society organizations. He was
followed by Counselor Sylvester Q. Can-
non, who also made interesting and instruc-
tive remarks.
	The names of the General Officers of the
Relief Society and the Stake Officers were


then presented to the meeting and sus-
tained, and six missionaries were appointed
to assist the stake officers and sustained.
	After singing and prayer, the conference
adjourned until September 9, 1904.
	CLARA LITTLE CLAWSON, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
HOMEWARD BOUND.

SS. PRINZESS IRENE, JULY 6, 1904.
	Once more at sea—and this time finding
it much pleasanter. The Prinzess Irene
is called “the lady ship,” and a lady she
is, serene, quiet, steady, and a little slow.
	Hence we are spared the jarring of a
hard-run screw, and forge along as smooth-
ly as a ferry boat. It being midsummer,
there are few passengers going this way,
and this gives comparative quiet to the ear
as well as the rest of the body. And, with
warm and pleasant weather, open ports and
habitable decks give us more “sea air” than
is usually obtainable.
	The rush and whirl of the Congress pre-
vented my writing while it was going on,
and a crowded week of traveling afterward
was equally inimical to letters; but now
there is time enough, and a little space of
removal gives a better picture in the mind.
	For suffragists, the pleasantest feature of
the great gathering might be found in the
universal interest in the “Frauenstimm-
recht” among the gathered representatives
of many lands; the keen interest and large
attendance at suffrage meetings, and the
special honor paid to our great Miss An-
thony. When the empress received the
presidents of each national council, Lady
Aberdeen the incoming and Mrs. Sewall the
outgoing international president, she also
received Miss Anthony, on her own merits.
Well has it been said, “There is nothing
impossible to the steadfast determination of
one human will.”
	When a human being absolutely and de-
terminedly devotes a life to some one pur-
pose, he or she grows great, and that great-
ness is recognized sooner or later: it cannot
be hidden.
	To the old view that women are useful
only as mothers, with some additional con-
venience as housekeepers, the visible pre-
sence of great women who serve the world
in their human capacity, if not as “females,”
is invaluable.
	Of course we need mothers; but there are
plenty.
	Of course, the fullest life should include
all functions, but not all of us may have all
things. And in this strange, changeful,
trying period of the renaissance of women,
many must renounce much—in order to do
more.
	One woman at the Congress, a magnifi-
cent creature from Norway, young, strong,
serenely beautiful, with a long, heavy flaxen
plait hanging down her back, and ropes of
big silver beads around her neck, was also
proudly carrying a sturdy child of a year or
so. It was a splendid picture—the woman
in all her typical, original power and beau-
ty; the handsome, well grown boy to prove
fulfillment of all primal duty; and then the
big human soul and mind—the interest in
her country’s progress and that of other
countries; the journey from her northern
home to join this meeting of the nations.
In the smoother years that are coming, the
alternative will not be forced upon the grow-
ing woman, and she will be able to be a
full-grown, widely useful human creature,

[Column 2]
and a happy woman, too. All honor to
those who have served the world in these
hard years of heavy cost, relentlessly de-
manded and so nobly paid!
	This meeting in Germany was a trium-
phant success. The preliminary suffrage
meeting was satisfactory—some coming to
that who did not stay to the later proceed-
ings; the Council accomplished much, and
the Congress was better than our hopes.
There was a large attendance both of dele-
gates and visitors, and the general public
of Berlin fflled the halls from day to day.
The audiences were immense, including
many men.
	It must be a strange thing to a man, ac-
customed only to see women singly, in
their private capacity, or in social groups,
each with an escort, to be present at these
great gatherings, to see thousands of wom-
en together, not “as women,” but as human
beings and members of society. Quite apart
from argument and appeal, the impression
made by the mere visible presence of such
an aggregate of public-spirited women must
be very great.
	And it is. Many remarks were made on
it by astonished German gentlemen.
	Besides the public welcome, interest and
applause, we were received and entertained
with all cordiality and honor by the hostess
city. The beautiful houses of Berlin re-
ceived us, Art museums, gardens, galler-
ies, parks, all were open to us; royalty,
nobility, and—what really counted for more
than all—“der stadt Berlin” itself magnifi-
cently entertained this organization of wom-
en united to serve the world.
	The reception by the city, our great
banquet in the richly decorated Rathhaus,
marks an epoch in the woman’s movement.
Here was the great public building, built
by men and for men, the official home of
of the governing sex, open to do honor to
the once only domestic sex—with Burgo-
meister, Oberburgermeister, magistrates and
ministers, in their gold chains, receiving
and entertaining us. And this not as indi-
viduals, not as separate dignitaries, however
distinguished some of our women are, but
as an organization of real value to the
world.
	It should be a lesson clear and convincing
to those loyal but limited souls who put
their chosen reform before all others and
say, “we must have prohibition first” or
“suffrage first” or “socialism first.” We
must have first what we can get first—and
some things come together.
	We do not confront a growing child and
demand hair first, or teeth first, or bones
first. We do not, or at least we should not,
confront a growing character, forming or
reforming, and say, “we must have courage
first,” or “patience first.” Growth is com-
plex and gradual, in individuals or in the
world as a whole; and needs to be studied
before we can safely hasten it.
	In earlier days, when less was known of
the nature of man, we assumed the people
could if they chose become quite different
and behave quite differently. Now we are
slowly and somewhat reluctantly finding
out that conduct is the symptom of charac-
ter, and character the result of conditions.
The problem of the scientific reformer is:
How to change conditions so as to improve
character, and thus modify conduct to the
desired form.
	We are learning something of this prob-
lem, though but slowly.
							C. P. G.
				Boston Woman's Journal.


WONDERFUL OLD MEN.
	Men of thought have always been dis-
tinguished for their age. Solon, Sophoc-
les, Pindar, Anacreon, and Xenophon were
octogenarians. Kent, Buffon, Goethe, Fon-
tenelle and Newton were over eighty when
they died; So was Harvey, the discoverer
of the circulation of the blood. Many men
have done excellent work after they have
passed eighty years. Landor wrote his
“Imaginary Conversations’ when eighty-
five, Izaak Walton wielded a ready pen at
ninety. Hahnemann married at eighty and
was working at ninety-one. Michael
Angelo was still painting his giant canvas-
es at eighty-nine, and Titian at ninety
worked with the vigor of his early years.
Fontenelle was as light-hearted at ninety-
eight as at forty, and Newton at eighty-
three worked as hard as he did in middle
life. Cornara was in far better health at
ninety-five than at thirty, and as happy as
a boy. Dr. Du Boisy was practising at
Hanover as a physician in 1897, going his
daily rounds at the age of one hundred and
three. William Reynold Salmon, M. R.
C. S., of Conbridge, Glamorganshire, died
on March 11th, 1897, at the age of one
hundred and six. At the time of his death
he was the oldest known individual of indis-
putably authenticated age, the oldest phy-
sician, the oldest member of the Royal Col-
lege of Surgeons, and the oldest Freemason
in the world.

	Miss Florence Nightingale recently passed
her eighty-fourth birthday. Although
long since removed from conspicuous par-
ticipation in affairs she is still active and
wields a strong influence ln a quiet manner
in charitable and reform movements. It
is said that she will have in a short time
the Order of Merit bestowed upon her by
King Edward. This is a decoration founded
by the king. It is well merited by Flor-
ence Nightingale, who began the great
system of nursing the sick and wounded
in war time, which now prevails over the
world.
	An afternoon “tea” for Americans only,
was given by Mary B. Willard, in Berlin,
whose School for Girls has been noted for
a quarter of a century. The Ambassador,
Consul General Mason, Dr. Dickie, and
other prominent Americans, gave to the
pleasant rooms an atmosphere highly appre-
ciated by those who were several thousand
miles away from home. Mrs. Willard has
sold her school, and will reside in New
York after August.
	Great disappointment is felt because of
the limited number whom the empress
received on Tuesday. Sixteen women only
were elected to represent the twenty
countries, but three of those were from the
United States. When Canada, Australia
and New Zealand protested because they
were not invited, the answer was that they
had their representation through Great
Britain.


It is told of the Archbishop of Canter-
bury that he once asked a Sunday School
class what the difference was between King
Solomon and other men. No one could
solve the problem. “Come,” said his grace
—“was there any difference, for instance,
between King Solomon and myself?” And
then one child ventured a reply—“Please,
sir, Solomon was wise!”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

			Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS. Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY, 1904


IN MEMORIAM.
HELEN MAY WINTERS WOODRUFF
	Sister Helen Woodruff who passed away
so suddenly May 25, 1904, while on a trip
to Mexico, whither she had gone with her
husband and little ones, was a charming
young woman, as well as beautiful, the
very soul of good nature, vivacious and
witty, attracting attention wherever she
went by her fascinating manner, and en-
dearing herself to all with whom she be-
came acquainted. ‘‘None knew her but to
love her,” for she possessed all those fine
qualities that make the perfect woman, and
carry away captive men’s hearts. But
Helen was wooed and won by one most
worthy, and to whom she gave her heart’s
devotion.
	Looking back on her wedded life it
seems a happy summer-dream, full of sun-
shine and music and without shadows.
Owen and Helen’s lives blended admirably
together, and they were indeed comrades in
every place, whether at their own hospit-
able home or engaged in social or religious
duties.
	So much has been said and written of
each of them that one can only repeat as it
were that which has already been better
expressed, yet as a friend and neighbor the
writer fee’s she must in the columns of the
EXPONENT record the touching story, and
express her sympathy for the bereaved
mothers’, both Sister Mary Ann Winters,
a lifelong friend, and Sister Emma S. Wood-
ruff with whom in Relief Society work intim-
ately associated. Sweet sympathy helps us
over many hard places in this life, and those
who suffer need the faith, the prayers, the
tender sympathy that helps even by a press-
ure of the hand, Hannah T. King wrote:
		Sweet the sympathetic hand
		Ever ready to expand,
		To raise, to comfort, and to bless
		All the needy in distress.
	Not only have I known the mothers but
the sisters of Sister Helen, and of Brother
Owen Woodruff, and to them my heart goes
out in loving tenderness; and yet they may
indeed rejoice that those dear beloved ones
have made their lives sublime while in this
probation and they know their exaltation is
sure, it only remains for those who love
them to follow in their footsteps that they
also may reach the heavenly mansions pre-
pared for the faithful.
	Sister Helen May Winters was born in
Pleasant Grove Sept, 24, 1873, married to
Abraham Owen Woodruff in the Salt Lake

[Column 2]
Temple June 30, 1897, and she was a bride
any man might be proud to lead to the sa-
cred altar.
		‘‘Grace in all her steps
		Heaven in her eye, in every
		Gesture dignity and love!
		The friend and co-partner
		Of her brother man, weaving
		The crown matrimonial, as
		The badge of the partner of his
		Throne and sovereignty!”
	Four lovely little ones were given to
them, one son Wilford Owen, Helen, Mar-
jorie and Rhoda the baby six months old at
the time of the mother’s decease. The
greatest tenderness is felt by the saints for
these orphan children, and prayers innum-
erable are no doubt offered daily in their
behalf, that they may be protected from
every evil and guarded and guided in the
path that leads to eternal life.
	Sister Helen W. Woodruff was an active
and zealous member of the General Board
of the Y. L. N. M. I. A. and traveled ex-
tensively in the interest of the organiza-
tion. She was one of its loyal supporters
and advocates and was ready at all times to
testify to the truth of the Gospel.
	Helen has gone and we can only say, we
do not understand.


APOSTLE ABRAHAM OWEN WOODRUFF.
	The first thought that came to the writer
when hearing the shocking news of the
death of Elder Woodruff who had died in
Mexico was “the beloved Apostle” and such
he was to many in very deed. His tender
tone of voice, his gracious manner at all
times and in all places, his innocent, child-
like expression, his genial kindliness, all
betokened the loveliness of his well-rounded
character. We can only think of him as a
man possessed of all the best attributes of
heart and soul, that tend toward the high-
est aspirations reaching out to eternal life.
One thinks of the Savior’s illustration when
He took the little child and set him in their
midst and said, “Unless ye become as one
of these, ye can in no wise enter the king-
dom of heaven.”
	Owen Woodruff, like his great and well-
beloved father, was the very personification
of humility; but he has gone from this
world to join his father in the place pre-
pared for those who have been faithful
here; and though those nearest and dearest
will mourn his absence, yet they have the
blessed assurance which the Gospel affords
of meeting him again where there is no
more parting, or tears or sorrow for ever-
more.
	Abraham Owen Woodruff, son of Presi-
dent Wilford Woodruff and his wife, Emma
Smith Woodruff, was born November 22,
1872, on the farm just outside the city limits
where he afterwards made his own home;
he was of a religious nature and fond of his
home and of the companionship of those
who were inclined to serve the Lord, in
this respect following in the footsteps of his
illustrious and exemplary father.
	He filled a successful mission to Germany
remaining there between two and three
years, during which time he also visited
Austria and Italy, and made good use of
these opportunities. Not long after his re-
turn he married Helen May Winters, June
30, 1897, and on October 7, of the same
year, was ordained an Apostle; ever since
he has labored diligently among the Saints,
and traveled hither and thither in the sev-
eral Stakes of Zion, and was one of the
principal colonizers of the Big Horn coun-


try in Wyoming, an arduous undertaking.
	Although his loss is deeply felt by his
family and associates and indeed all the
Saints, for he was widely known and every-
where beloved, his good works and noble
record will never perish, and his name will
be a synonym for good among the Saints
for all time. He died in Mexico, June 20,
1904. It is sad to die away from home
among strangers, yet it can make no differ-
ences to the one who goes, for the earth is
the Lord’s and his hand is over all, and “not
a sparrow falls to the ground without His
notice,” therefore we know as the poet says,
	“And not on a blind and aimless way,
		The spirit goeth.”


PIONEER DAY, JULY 24, 1904.
	Monday, July 24, of this year, was very
appropriately celebrated wtth exercises in
the Assembly Hall and a street parade in
imitation of the original methods of coming
into the valley in the earliest times. The
committee had previously sent out invita-
tions to all the Pioneers of 1847 that there
would be a banquet for them and some
prizes given. The place of gathering was
in Liberty Park, and bands of music were
in attendance. Two military companies
from Fort Douglas were in the parade, in
charge of Captain Briant S. Wells of the
H. & L. infantry, and the march from South
Temple to the Park was quite satisfactory
and creditable in its display, civil and mil-
itary, of old-time eannons and wagons and
other details.
	The society Daughters of the Pioneers
had the banquet in charge, and the stand-
ing committee on entertainment, assisted
by some of the presiding officers, worked
assiduously to make the dinner a success.
They provided for a hundred, but more
were seated at the first table.
	It is well known that only a very few of
the first band of original Pioneers are now
living, and that first company that followed
them, arriving here in October of the same
year, and a few of the Mormon Battalion,
make up what is reckoned the Pioneers.
Some of these were then little children or
babes in arms.
	The festivities of several kinds, music
and speech making, continued through the
day, and at night there were brilliant fire-
works to entertain those who were not too
weary to remain and witness the pyrotech-
nics.
	Among those of 1847 who were entitled
to presents because of age was Sister Mary
Isabella Horne, who was given a handsome
silk umbrella with gold handle. Governor
Heber M. Wells, in his happy style, made
the presentation, and the honored lady res-
ponded in a few gracious and well chosen
words. The oldest Pioneer of the brethren
was Bro. James Luch, who was given a
gold-headed cane, with a few fitting words.
	Utah may well be proud of the Pioneers,
when they recall the labor not only of
crossing the plains, but to make this barren
land habitable; and too much credit cannot
be awarded to the Pioneer of Pioneers—
Brigham Young—and his faithful co-labor-
ers who came here with him on that famous
pilgrimage—Heber C. Kimball, Willard
Richard, Orson Pratt and Wilford Wood-
ruff.


MRS. HORNE AT HOME.
	Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne is home again,
having reached here August 18, feeling de-
lighted with her success while away and


the beautiful places she has seen iu her trip
abroad. Mrs. Horne went to Europe to
attend the International Council and Con-
gress in Berlin; she left this city April 18, ult.,
and went first to New York and afterwards to
Boston to attend the annual meeting of the
Daughters of the Revolution, which was
held there early in May. Mrs. Horne was
proxy for the Regent of the D. R. Utah
Society, and was present at all the meetings
and festivities. She was received with the
greatest courtesy and had every opportunity
to vote and to speak for the society she rep-
resented. The meetings were interesting,
the entertainments enjoyable. Mrs Horne
sailed from Boston for Liverpool on board
the “Cretic,” Miss Christensen of Utah
accompanying her) and Mrs. Lydia D. Al-
der and daughter May were also in the
same ocean party.
	Mrs. Horne arrived in Berlin in time to
attend all the meetings and gatherings of
the International Council, which com-
menced the week previous to the Con-
gress. Most of our readers have read
a great deal of this wonderful Congress of
representative women from many lands,
and Mrs. Horne and others, who have had
this privilege of attending and participating
in these immense gatherings will be able to
tell us something more of the magnitude,
and magnificence of these wonderful affairs,
that have been so largely successful in ev-
ery respect. No such Woman’s Congress
has ever convened in the world’s history as
this last one in Berlin. The great Con-
gress held in Chicago in connection with
the World’s Fair, and the much greater
one held five years ago in London, scarcely
compare with this last superb effort made
by the great body of earnest, brilliant,
strong-minded women, who are uniting
their forces for the betterment of the world.
Utah was well represented in this great
congress, not only in having places on the
program and the opportunity of speaking
to large audiences, but in various other
ways, garden parties, receptions, “teas,”
“coffees” and public entertainments.
	In another part of this paper Mrs. Lydia
D. Alder has given a few items cencerning
this great congress, and we shall possibly
be having more and more of the incidents,
and what took place, as thought crystalizes
in the minds of those who saw and heard
and took part in these brilliant assemblies,
and drove and rode and walked through the
grand scenery, and gazed upon the old ruins
as well as the grandeur of the new in arch-
itecture, statuary, pictures, and all that
makes the old world beautiful.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NINTH WARD R. S. REUNION.
	By invitatton of the President of the
Ninth Ward Relief Society of this City,
Tuesday, June 5, 2 p.m., the General Pres-
ident of the Relief Society and the writer
attended a meeting of that society; there
were also present President Annie S. Mus-
ser of the Liberty stake and her counselors,
Zurviah G. Eardley and Mary E. Hodgson.
Sister Lucy Kimball had also been specially
invited. There was a good attendance of
members, President Mary Mair presiding,
both her counselors were on the platform,
and Bishop West and Counselor Taylor
Woolley.
	After the usual exersises, President B.W.
Smith made some excellent remarks on the
early days of the Church and spoke of the
first organization of the Relief Society at
which she was present; she then read some


of the Prophet Joseph’s remarks to the sis-
ters in that early day, which she had copied
from the minutes kept by Sister Eliza R.
Snow, the first secretary of the society. A
lovely spirit pervaded the meeting while
she was addressing the audience. Sister
Lucy W. Kimball also related personal rem-
iniscences of the Prophet Joseph, in whose
family she had lived and referred to the
Prophet’s wife (Sister Emma Smith), her
good traits of character and her great char-
ity; she alluded to her own home life in
the valley after her marriage to President
Heber C. Kimball. Other speakers were
President Annie S. Musser, Z. C. Eardley,
M. E Hodgson, E. Webb and the writer.
Bishop West made a few remarks endorsing
what had been said and praised the sisters
for their good works. Counselor Taylor
Woolley added a few earnest words and
pronounced the benediction.
	Refreshments were served after the meet-
ing had adjourned in a spacious room ad-
joining the hall, and social conversation,
with instrumental music on the piano, and
a song or two enlivened the hours and made
a pleasing variety, which was most enjoy-
able.
	Four new members were enrolled on
that day, which is always a hopeful sign of
progress. The hall was decorated with
beautiful flowers in great variety, and the
visiting sisters were each presented with a
handsome bouquet. These reunions are
helpful to the sisters in promoting sociabil-
ity and union of feeling, aims and interests.


ANNUAL MEEING R. S. CANNON WARD.
	President Rebecca A. Sharp, of Cannon
Ward in Pioneer Stake, invited the Society
to meet at her beautiful home on Twelfth
South and Redwood Road, to keep their an-
nual day. Her parlors were well filled, a
number of visitors being invited, and there
was a good attendance of members, as well
as Bishop Lewis M. Cannon, who was also
in attendance. Visitors were General Pres-
ident Bathsheba W. Smith, her first coun-
selor Annie T. Hyde, Secretary Emmeline
B. Wells, Counselors Sarah J. Jenne Cannon
and Clara C. Cannon, of the former Salt
Lake Stake, and former Treasurer Marga-
ret C. Hull. After singing, prayer, etc.,
Secretary Martha T. Cannon read the min-
utes of the last meeting, which were quite
interesting and contained remarks by Pres-
ident M. Isabella Horne, who was at that
time President of the Salt Lake Stake, which
included the four new stakes. Sister
S. J. J, Cannon stated that Sister Horne
had been expected to be present at this
meeting, but regretted very much she was
not quite well enough to come.
	President Sharp made opening remarks
and welcomed the sisters, was glad to see
so many, etc. She spoke of a case of sick-
ness iu the ward and solicited means to
aid the family, who were in distressed cir-
cumstances. The sisters who addressed
the meeting were first, President B. W.
Smith, who occupied a few minutes in giv-
ing good counsel and expressing her pleas-
ure in her labors, both in the Society and
in the Temple. Counselor Annie T. Hyde
followed, alluding to the subject of criti-
cism and slander. Sisters Sarah A. J. Can-
non, Clara C. Cannon and Martha T. 
Cannon each made excellent remarks and
bore faithful testimonies of the truth of the
Gospel.
	Sister M. C. Hull sung in her magnificent
voice, “The Holy City.”


Sister E. B. Wells spoke briefly, referring
to the early days of the organization.
	Bishop Cannon was then asked to address
the sisters, but said he would prefer to
hear Sister Smith tell of the first meeting
of this Society. In response to this Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith drew a pretty word
picture of that unique gathering in Nauvoo
when only eighteen women were present,
though the Prophet Joseph was there, with
Elders Willard Richards and John Taylor.
Bishop Cannon added a few words express-
ing his good wishes for the Society, men-
tioning the grain question, etc., and willing-
ness to aid them in all undertakings. Two
new members, both young women, were
added to the enrollment, and after singing
and prayer the annual meeting was ad-
journed for one year.
	After the adjournment refreshments were
served, including fine rosy apples raised in
the orchard where the home stands. Sister
Sharp is said to be a model home-maker,
as well as a thoroughly good president, her
counselors are efficient, and she has an ex-
cellent secretary and competent treasurer
and corps of teachers.


EDITORIAL NOTE.
	Stakes visited in June and July of this
year are—Pocatello, Sisters Clarissa S. Wil-
liams and Phebe Y. Beatie; Tooele, Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp and Elizabeth J. Stevenson; We-
ber, Sarah Jenne Cannon and Maggie C.
Hull; Big Horn, Priscilla Smith and Hattie
B. Harker; Summit, Counselor Annie T.
Hyde and Rebeeca E. Little; North San-
pete, South Sanpete and Sevier, Counselor
Annie T. Hyde and Martha A. Cannon;
Bannock, Sisters Emmeline B. Wells and
Sarah J. Jenne Cannon; Utah and Alpine,
President Bathsheba W. Smith and Sister
Emmeline B. Wells; Davls; President
B. W. Smith, Sisters E. B. Wells and Julina
L. Smith; Nebo, Sisters Carrie S. Thomas
and Mary Alice Lambert; San Luis, Mar-
garet A. Caine and Hattie B. Harker; Wa-
satch, C. S. Thomas and R. E Little.


[For the Exponent.]
		FOREIGN LETTER.
	July Fourth, nineteen and four, was cele-
brated by the Americans who live in Leip-
zig at Wald Schatke, in an enthusiastic and
fitting manner.
	An automobile, with our nation’s flags in
evidence, first attracted our attention, while
near the band stand, a beautiful new one,
was in full view. O, it waved so proudly,
as we stopped to count the stars in its folds.
Yes, forty-five, and ours the last, though
not the least, by any means of that stately
family.
	We had reached the place, by a walk of
seven miles, through the forest of Couner-
vitz Holy, a little dorf or village. It was
an ideal day, cool and pleasant, so that we
scarcely noticed the long walk. We lost
our way for a time and roamed through
paths and roads each one seeming more
picturesque than the other. The forests are
so near the large cities here, that it is only
a few minutes walk, to while away an hour
or two in the company of solitude and sil-
ence. Seats are placed at intervals, where
one may rest and commune with themselves,
away from the marts of men.
	The river Bleise, a pretty, slow stream
winds through the wild tangle of shrubs
and trees. The grassy knolls are dotted
with butter-cups, yellow as gold, and with-


in a few yards of us, were three deer, the
little one looking at us with that wild look,
that did not even evince surprise, I feel sad
and alone, oft times in a crowd but here the
language of silence thrills my heart.
	While the young people cut gum from
the Spruce trees I dreamed. A soft song of
the past, is sung by the passing breeze that
murmurs through the wide spreading trees.
Beautiful castles rise to view, both of the
present and future, gilded by the golden sun
rays as they gleam through the waving
boughs, where the birds sing love songs,
songs of hope and promise. But here we
are at last, and the games are engaging
every one’s attention.
	The agility of the men, and the graceful
movements of the women, proclaim them
“Americans.” Their dress too, proclaims
their nationality, and it is refreshing to hear
them talk, with that ease and freedom, for
which we are noted.
	A number of prizes were awarded, amid
peals of laughter, one lady winning a din-
ner set.
	In the evening fire works, and a dance
closed the festivities.
	But long before they were over, we left;
taking a short cut to the car for home, pass-
ing a large party of students, with their
sweet-hearts, who were enjoying a boat ride
on the still river.
	Leipzig is not so large nor beautiful a city
as Berlin, but it has its Palmen garden, so
pardonably renowned. It reminds one of
fairy land, or a scene from some fair tropi-
cal country.
	The rose garden, the landscape, trees
and shrubs, cannot be described, but they
show the care, and utter disregard of cost,
shown by the Germans, in their pleasure re-
sorts. The music from the band lends en-
chantment, to the glorious surroundings.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIUM
	Sketch of the life of Sister Sarah Ann Scott
who departed this life June 7th 1904, after seven
months illness from general debility. Deceased
was born in Philadelphia Sept. 6th 1832, became a
member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in 1847. Married Elder Andrew H.
Scott January 12th 1851, at Kanesville, Iowa. came
to Utah the same year with her husband and moth-
er living in Salt Lake City until 1852, when she
moved to Provo and has since resided there was
the mother of eleven children, 102 grandchildren,
and 36 great-grand-children. Has been President
of the Provo 2nd Ward Relief Society, since 1867
until last spring,
	Resolutions of respect adopted by the Relief
Society of the Provo 2nd Ward.
	Whereas—It Has pleased our Heavenly Father
to call from our midst our most beloved President
and co-laborer Sarah Ann Scott and
	Whereas—She has labored as a R. S. President
36 years until her last sickness and
	Whereas—She has labored in aiding five suc-
cessive Bishops in caring for the poor, comforting
the sick, and spiritually uplifting the sorrowful be
it therefore
	Resolved—That through her departure the R.S.
has lost a faithful and zealous worker, a wise
President, and a devoted, practical, Latter-day
Saint and
	Resolved—That we, her co-laborers, emulate
her devoted life and example and may her sons
aud daughters and grandchildren constantly look
to her ideal life for strength and perseverance
while toiling for eternal riches and
	Resolved—That these resolutions be placed up-
on the records of the Provo 2nd Ward R. S. and
that they be published in the WOMANS EXPONENT
also in the Provo Enquirer.
					HARRIET SCOTT
					SINA HENDRICKSON
					ELIZA NELSON
				In behalf of 2nd Ward R. S.


Why is a man who adds to false rumors
like one who believes all that he is told?—
Because he re-lies on all that he hears.


[Column 1]
			MOTHER’ WORK.
PLAN OF MOTHERS’ WORK FOR THE RELIEF
	SOCIETY BRANCHES OF THE UTAH STAKE
	OF ZION, FOR THE YEAR 1905.
		Self Culture.
1—Physical culture for mothers:
	(a) Care of general health.
	(b) Preparation for maternity.
	(c) Personal appearance.
2—Intellectual culture of mothers.
	(a) What literature shall she read?
	(b) Art in the home.
	(c) Practical science in the home.
3—Moral culture for mothers:
	(a) Gospel ideals of Morality.
	(b) Self control.
	(c) Social duties.
4—Religious culture for mothers:
	(a) Study of the principles of the Gos-
		pel.
	(b) Application of the principles of the
		Gospel.
	(c) Result of study and Application of
		the Principles of the Gospel, as
		manifest in the Relief Society and
		in Church work.
		MARTH A. F. KEELER, Ch. Com.

WASATCH STAKE.
LESSON VII.
Courtship and Marriage.
	(a) Take the greatest care in selecting a
companion. (b) How is marriage regarded
by our Church, and what is meant by mar-
riage for eternity. Nov. Guide, Journal para-
graphs 4, 5, 6, 7. Improvement Era, April
and May, 1903.

LESSON VIII.
Purity of Character.
	(a) Ball room etiquette. (b) Good man-
ners part of good morals. Guide Journal
of Young Ladies, Sept., 1903.

LESSON IX.
	“Courtesy and etiquette are flowers;
	The one has roots in the heart,
	The other in the intellect.”
The Rights of Family Members.
	(a) How should the rights of parents be
regarded? (b) What are the rights of chil-
dren in the home? (c) Why is a mother’s
love nearest to the love of Christ? Guide
Journal of Young Ladies, Jan., 1904, May,
Era, 1903.

LESSOE X.
Home Hygiene and Sanitation.
	(a) Dodging the Word of Wisdom. (b)
Joseph Smith a scientist. Juvenile, May 1,
1904; Era, May, 1904.

LESSON XI.
Home Culture.
‘As the twig is bent the tree inclines.”
	(a) Are the home environments, example
and training in harmony with the truths

[Column 2]
taught the Latter-day Saints? Era, Dec.,
1903.

LESSON XII.
Prayer.
“Pray Always.”
	(a) Sincere prayer is the greatest safe-
guard against wrong doing. (b) How does
the habit of prayer affect the lives of boys
and girls. (c) How and when should we
pray? Doctrine and Covenants, sec. 61,
verse 39; Guide Journal, Jan., 1904, also
Young Ladies’ Journal, August, 1901.
	Anna R. Duke, Elizabeth Murdock,
Lovisa Alexander, Stake Presldency.
	Eliza Rasband, Emma Duke, Sarah K.
Duke, Committee.

		LIBERTY STAKE.
Woman’s Duty and Influence in the Home.

LECTURE I.
A. HOME MAKING.
	1. Religious duties. (a) Marriage or-
dained of God. (b) Sanctity of the home.
(c) Devotion in the home
	2. Social duties. (a) Pleasant home as-
sociations. (b) Recreation. (c) Visiting
friends.

LECTURE II.
B. THE WIFE.
	1. Helpmeet. (a) Companionship of hus-
band and wife. (b) An influence in Church
duties.
	2. Housekeeping. (a) Domestic econ-
omy. (b) Order, sanitation, ventilation,
etc. (c) Art in the home.

LECTURE III.
C. THE MOTHER.
	1 Preparation for motherhood. (a) First
law given to Adam and Eve. (b) Sacred
duty of motherhood. (c) Pre-natal influ-
ences. (d) Blessings of motherhood.
	2. Motherhood. (a) Callings less im-
portant than motherhood require study and
training. (b) All things in nature gov-
erned by natural law. (c) Mother’s influ-
ence in the home.

LECTURE IV.
D. CARE OF CHILDREN.
	1. Physical needs. (a) Hygienic laws
observed. (b) The word of wisdom a law
to all Saints. (c) Proper living lays the
foundation for strong character.
	2. Moral and spiritual training. (a) Obed-
ence essential to development of character-
(b) Cooperation of parents necessary. (c)
Qualities to be cultivated—love, patience,
cheerfulness, kindness, contentment, etc.
(d) The brother and sister in the home.

LECTURE V.
Woman’s Duty and Influence in the Church.
E. INDIVIDUAL DEVELOPMENT, INTELECT-
		UAL.
	1. By study of the world’s history, past
and present.
	2. By observation. (a) Places. (b)
Things. (c) Events (cause and effect.)
	3. By works. (a) Application of true
knowledge. (b) Imparting true knowledge.


LECTURE VI.
F. INDIVIDUAL DEVELOPMENT, SPIRIT-
	UAL.
	1. By instruction. (a) Divine inspiration
(b) Revelation. (c) Preaching.
	2. By research. (a) Bible. (b) Book of
Mormon. (c) Doctrine and Covenants. (d)
Pearl of Great Price. (e) Inspired Ser-
mons and Epistles. (f) By works and ap-
plication of knowledge.
			LECTURE VII.
G. RELIEF SOCIETY WORK.
	1. By visiting the sick and needy. (a)
Necessities. (b) Helpful labor. (c) Cheer-
ful entertainment. (d) Refreshments. (e)
Flowers. 
	2. By assisting the poor. (a) Encour-
agement. (b) Sharing comforts. (c) Pro-
viding labor. (d) Entertainments.
	3. By encouraging the downcast. (a)
Establishing confidence in themselves. (b)
Showing the mercy of God. (c) Teaching
them to look to the future and not despair.
	4 Care of the aged. (a) Supplying needs.
(b) Lightening their labors. (c) Cheering
their lives by proper attention.
	5. By proper care of the dead. (a) Pre-
paring clothing. (b) Washing, and dress-
ing the body. (c) Properly laying away.
			LECTURE VIII.
H. SUSTAINING THE PRIESTHOOD.
	1. By word. (a) Encouraging confi-
dence in individuals who preside. (b) De-
fending decisions given by authority of the
priesthood. (c) Encouraging Church mem-
bers in the performance of duty.
	2. By works. (a) Responding to calls.
(b) Fostering mission work. (c) Volun-
tary contribution of means.
			LECTURE IX.
Woman's Duty and Influence in the State.
I. PRIVILEGES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
	1, Utah compared with other states. (a)
Equality of men and women. 
			LECTURE X. 
J. TRAINING OF FUTURE CITIZENS.
	1. Duty of bearing children. (a) The
family the foundation of the state. (b) De-
crease of children in the American home.
			LECTURE XI.
K.
	1. Home instruction and training. (a)
How mothers may train children in citi-
zenship. (b) Introduction of God and
Godliness into affairs of State.
			LECTURE XII.
L. Mothers of Great Men.
	1. Great men’s acknowledgment of their
obligations to their mothers. (a) The
hand that rocks the cradle, etc. (b) Exam-
ples and precepts.
			AMANDA DONE,
			GRACE T. ANDERSON,
			ELLA B. IVERSON,
					Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
GENERAL RETRENCHMENT MEETINGS.
	The sisters are well aware that for more
than thirty years meetings have been held
semi-monthly in the 14th ward Assembly
Rooms. The subject of retrenchment was
introduced by President Brigham Young as
early as in the “Sixties” at a time when
this people seemed inclined to follow after
the fashions of the world in some lines, and
as President Young was an economist,
he counseled the older sisters to be careful
and set an example worthy of emulation by
the women of the younger generation. Sis-
ter M. Isabella Horne was asked to take
charge of these meetings by President
Young; and the first meeting was held in
the 15th ward school house and from there
adjourned to the 14th ward Assembly
Rooms where they have been held ever
since. Associated with President Horne in
this organization were Sisters Eliza R.
Snow, Zina D. Young, Bathsheba W.
Smith, Phebe W. Woodruff, Marinda N.
Hyde, Sarah M. Kimball and Margaret T.
Smoot.
	Of the original number only two remain
M. Isabella Horne and Bathsheba W.
Smith.
	It is not the intention to give at this time
a sketch of this association but as the meet-
ings are now discontinued, and as we have
minutes of several meetings on hand that
had not been printed we will make a brief
mention of these last meetings.
	October 17, 1903, there was a good atten-
dance Sister E. J. Stevenson presiding in
the absence of President Horne, the usual
exercises of singing, etc., and prayer was
offered by Sister Mary Alice Lambert, after
remarks by Sister Stevenson upon the Sab-
bath day and instructions in the way of ex-
hortation, Counselor, Sarah Jenne Cannon of
the Relief Society, Salt Lake Stake of Zion,
spoke very feelingly of the work of Sister
Horne and her Board—they had visited
twenty-two wards already the present year
and were intending to visit all before the
cold weather, she expressed herself forcibly
in regard to the care of the poor and other
matters of importance.
	Sister Maria Corbett, Martha Read, Sarah
Rushton, Mary Campbell, Mary P. Silver
and Sisters Madsen, Stilton, Peterson and
Lundgreen bore strong testimonies of the
truth of the Gospel. Sister Mary A. Lam-
bert said she had a testimony of this work
when a very little girl, Sisters Mary Mair,
Seabeck, Wilson, Jones, also bore testimony
and Elizabeth Paul spoke of her many years
presidency in the 10th ward, she also offer-
ed prayer for all the sick and afflicted in
which the sisters all united.
	Sister Catherine Layne felt the prayer
would be answered and the sick recover
who had been specially mentioned.
	Sisters Buzzo, Langton, and others spoke
on faith and humility. Sisters E. Webb
and J. C. Howe spoke upon the education
and training of the children properly. The
benediction was pronounced by Sister A. F.
Wardoup.
	At the meeting in November, Saturday
11th, opening prayer was offered by Gen-
eral President Bathsheba W. Smith, the
subject of the first part of the meeting was
Sister Horne’s faithfulness for so many
years, and of the near approach of her 85th
birthday, also spoke upon charity for each
other; prophecies of Joseph Smith now being
fulfilled. Sisters Davis S. J. Cannon, M.
Morris, E. Paul H. Peterson, E. Langton,
N. Saunders and H. Lapish all spoke en-

[Column 2]
couragingly and urged all to faithfulness,
and also referred to the trials of the people
in the past as contrasted with the present
time. General President Bathsheba W.
Smith spoke of the temple work and urged
the sisters to be diligent in doing their
temple work; referred to the Book of Nephi
where it spoke of the Savior appealing to
the people, how He healed the sick and af-
flicted, and blest them, said “The Lord will
lift the cloud from us if we will be humble
and true to our covenants.”
	Sisters Niebaur Nelson and Peterson
spoke upon sympathy, Sisters Luff and De
Mott bore faithful testimonies. Meeting ad-
journed until Saturday after Christmas.

	At the meeting December 26, 1903,
Counselor Elizabeth Webb presided, prayer
was offered by Counselor S. J. Cannon.
Sister Webb addressed the sisters upon
purity of life, rectitude of conduct and the
guidance of our children. Sister Amelia F.
Wardroup thought we should keep our
promises to our children and to one another,
that confidence may not be weakened and
we should keep the covenants we make
with the Lord, for He is true to His chil-
dren.
	Sister Julia C<. H>owe said the love of
God is with us when we do right we should
walk in the straight and narrow way that
leads to life and salvation.
	Counselor S. J. Cannon thought we
should be careful in our conversation; if we
cannot speak well of any one it is not
necessary to speak of them at all; told
the sisters that President Horne was very
sick; she had sent her love to the sisters
and hoped she would soon be able to meet
with them again.
	Sister Jane C. Young thought we should
always keep faithfully the promises we
make, related an instance where a child’s
confidence was utterly destroyed by a brok-
en promise.
	Sister Langton spoke of the trying times
in which we are living, these persecutions
are for good, but only those who live near
to the Lord will come off triumphant in the
end.
	Sisters De Mott and Peterson bore ex-
cellent testimonies, and Sister Rebecca
Brown testified that she knew Joseph Smith
was a Prophet of God, she had joined the
Church when a child of fourteen years, bore
strong testimony of the gift of healing the
sick and felt we should live the lives of
saints in very deed.
	Sister Mary E. Irvine felt to acknowledge
the hand of the Lord in all things, and
seek for strength to bear our trials and put
trust in our Heavenly Father not only with
our lips but by living our religion.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith bore a
powerful testimony and hoped Sister Horne
would be with us in the New Year. Coun-
selor Webb presented the greetings of the
season with love and the meeting adjourned
with prayer by Sister Mary P. Silver.

	The first meeting in the new year 1904
was held Saturday, January 23. Counselor
Stevenson presiding, prayer by Counselor
Webb. Sister Stevenson addressed the
sisters, referring to the changes about to be
made in dividing Salt Lake Stake, thought
we should be careful how we live and re-
joice in the persecutions and trust in the
Lord and pray for help, we should not
qnench the spirit in these meetings but bear


[Column 1]
testimony and serve the Lord with all our
might, mind and strength; spoke lovingly
of Sister Horne and her great labors among
the Saints in Zion. Counselor S. J. Cannon
rejoiced in these meetings spoke of the love
of Sister Horne for tLe sisters with whom
she had been associated so many years and
said in two weeks we shall hold the Salt
Lake Stake Conference in the Assembly
Hall and urged all the sisters to attend, it
would be the last Conference of the Stake
as it is now; she delivered a message from
President Horne to the sisters to be sure
and take care of the poor and especially
those that are backward in making their
wants known. The Relief Society is a
great benefit and blessing to us all; we have
ail worked hard, but it is those that prove
faithful unto the end who receive the re-
ward.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon said she re-
ceived consolation and strength in attend-
ing these meetings, thought we had no
time to trifle away, believed there were
great changes coming to us, felt it was
good to bear testimony.
	Sister Gardener and another sister bore
good testimonies referred to the Savior’s
beautiful example and precepts.
	Stake Secretary Julia S. Woolley spoke
of the need of charity, and said she felt the
dividing of the Salt Lake Stake was a good
move and inspired of the Lord, it would
give more sisters a chance to work in the
organizations, spoke feelingly of our chil-
dren, and referred to the goodness of Sister
Horne for so many years.
	General President Bathsheba W. Smith
bore her testimony and referred to the time
when these meetings were first organized,
how many good sisters, have been here in
times gone by, she felt good to be here on
account of the many happy times we have
had here. After some others had spoken
the meeting adjourned, benediction by
Sister E. Paul.

	The Ladies’ meeting held Saturday, Feb.
27, 1904. Counselor E. J. Stevenson presid-
ing she gave a very interesting talk to the
sisters of her trip south and to California;
where she saw orchards of oranges and
bananas; mentioned more especially of the
native Indians in Phoenix, Arizona, how
they occupied their time--attended govern-
ment schools and were being educated,
thought they were becoming intelligent and
she felt they were blessed of the Lord, she
visited a Lamanite family where the man
was Counselor to the Bishop of Papago
ward, and then the native women are a
great help to the white women by washing
for them, they are learning to sew: said the
Relief Society sisters had done all they
could in teaching and helping them; she
also spoke quite feelingly of the sisters in
Mexico, met many who had lived in Salt
Lake years ago.
	Sister Rebecca Brown said we should sew
seeds of charity and strive to be better
every day. Sister Martha Morris sang a
hymn. Counselor Sarah Jenne Cannon was
pleased to hear of the Lamanites being
taught in the way they are in Arizona, said

[Column 2]
she enjoyed reading the Book of Mormon
made a practice of reading it through every
year; spoke of many interesting things, and
closed by adding that she thought Sister
Horne would soon be with us again.
	Sister Martha Read spoke of our bless-
ings and also of our sufferings. Sister C. J.
Thomas desired to live worthy to go to
Jackson County with the Saints hoped the
time would come when we will be united
in all things. Sister Catherine Layne felt
glad to hear about the Lamanites, “they
are a great people, it is good to hear they
are coming forth in the Gospel, desire to
have the privilege of going among them as
a missionary.”
	Sisters Peterson, and Brown, bore testi-
mony and Sister Mary Mair who spoke of
the time of Johnson’s army, the poverty
of the Saints at that time, but through the
blessings of the Lord the people were re-
lieved.
	Sister Martha Morris sang a hymn and
bore her testimony and talked upon the
blessings of obedience.
	Sister Hook in speaking referred to her
friend iness towards the Indians. Sister
Madson had been greatly blessed in getting
her genealogy to work in the Temple.
Meeting adjourned with benediction by
Counselor Elizabeth Webb.
			AMELIA F. WARDOUP,
						Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS 1904-5.
	The Relief Society Nurse Class will com-
mence September 19, 1904, continuing
eight months. Four lessons a week will 
be given by Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, the
class instructor, and lectures by other phy-
sicians and surgeons of Salt Lake City.
There will also be a course of lectures on
cooking and other important subjects con-
nected with the nurse profession by mem-
bers of the General Board of the Relief So-
ciety or by those whom they may appoint.
	Students wishing to take the nurse course
and not previously provided with places to
stay during the term will have an oppor-
tunity of getting good homes where they
can at least earn enough to pay for their 
board and room. It would be advisable for
those intending coming from a distance, to
be  here a few days before the class com-
mences in order to have time to get settled
in such places, during which few days they
will be provided for. Call on Mrs. P. Y.
Beatie, secretary, 55 N. West Temple.
		EMMA A EMPEY,
	Supt. Relief Society Nurse Classes

	Obstetrical class commences Monday,
October 10, 1904. Tuition, $40.00; books,
$4 00 to $7 00, Ten dollars less will be
charged to those who attend Relief Society
Nurse Class.
	Ladies taking both classes, it might be
advisable if several could club together,
rent rooms and board themselves.
	MARGARET C. ROBERTS Instructor.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
	Will open a class in Nursing and Ob-
	stetrics on Monday, Oct. 10, 1904, at
	her home, 713 Second Street, Salt Lake 
	City. Those desiring to attend will
	please communicate personally or by
	letter. This class recommended by the
	General Board of the Relief Society.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
	No 1 Main Street.

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
					AND NURSING.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt will commence her
class in Midwifery and Nursing October 10, 1904.
	One student free. Write for particulars.
	This class recommended by the General
Board of the Relief Society.


A correspondent of the “Spectator” tells
the following story of the time when it was
feared that Holland would be absorbed in
the newly-federated German Empire. A
Dutch diplomatist of high position on a visit
to Berlin was attending a review at Pots-
dam, and Bismarck, who had him in charge
and was anxious to impress him to the ut-
most with the military spectacle, was sur
prised, as regiment after regiment went by
at his invariable comment, “Not tall
enough—not tall enough!”At length a
Guards battalion of particularly fine phy-
sique; having passed, was received with the
same “Not tall enough!” and Bismarck,
nettled asked the Hollander how he could
expect to see anywhere finer men than
these before him. The answer was, “Yes,
they are tall, but when we open the dykes
in Holland we can flood the country to ten
feet, so your soldiers would be still not tall
enough!” Another correspondent gives
a different version of the story. He was in
Rotterdam in 1877, and mentioned the ru-


mored German intentions to the Dutch
pilot of the ship in which he was sailing.
“Oh, the Germans will never come here,”
replied the man—if they do, we will open
the dykes, and—Bismarck is not able to
swim!”


OBSTETRICS

	Dr. Margaret G. Roberts
Will commence her next class in Obstet-
rics on Monday, October 10, 1904. This
class will also have the advantage of at-
tending the Relief Society Nurse
Class taught by Dr. Roberts. For fur-
ther information, communicate with Dr.
Roberts, 79 C Street. Telephone 2002.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

