				Vol. 33	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST, 1904	No. 3.


CONTENTS.
King George’s Birthday...........Lydia D. Alder	17
A Strong Testimony...............Sarah B. Layton	18
Annual Meeting D. R.......................... E.B.W.	18
Call for the Sixth Annual Demonstration........
......................................... May Wright Sewall	19
Relief Society Reports.....................................	20
In Memoriam ......................Lizzie Lee Butler	22
Mothers’ Work.................................................	22
National Council of Women—United States...
..........................................May Wright Sewall	23
EDITORIAL—Business Meeting N. W. R. S..	20
	Relief Society Conference ............................	20
	Hopeful Signs...........................................	20
Editorial Notes .................................................	20
POETRY—Peace...................... Ernest Crosby	17
	The Earth is the Lord’s..........A. L, Fisher	17
	The Floating Tea Party......Lydia D. Alder	19
	Peace Rallying Song ...........................Ex.	19


PEACE.
Peace, O Peace, when will the nation
	Lift its eyes and understand
How Thou holdest all creation
	In the hollow of Thy hand?

Thine the strength that stays the ocean
	Hypnotized beneath lts bed;
Thine the power that keeps in motion
	Constellations overhead.

Thine the orb of love afire;
	Lighting up the heavens profound;
Thine the suns that never tire
	Swinging planets round and round.

Thine the furnaces white-heated,
	Where they forge the cosmic powers--
Where the sons of God once greeted
	This new-fashioned world of ours;

Thine the strength, serene, unshaken,
	Which can master self alone,
Quelling passions when they waken,
	From Thy calm eternal throne.

Insult, hatred cannot reach Thee
	At that still, majestic height.
Make us conscious, we beseech Thee,
	Of our own reserves of might.

Teach us, while the battle rages,
	What we never understood:
This the mystery of the ages—
	Evil overcome by good.

Far above the storms and thunders,
	Far above the war and strife,
Far above our sins and blunders,
	At the source of strength and life—

There I see Thy hand commanding,
	With the olive branch for rod,
Peace that passeth understanding!
	Spirit of Almighty God!
					ERNEST CROSBY.


“THE EARTH IS THE LORD’S.”
All men are brothers, and God is their Father, 
	He made the earth with its blessings for all,
In His pure sight only meekness is mighty
	Beyond His care not a sparrow can fall.

His is the gold; His is also the silver;
	His are the flocks on a thousand green hills;
From the grand Orb of Day to the spring by the
		wayside
	All is His own; each His purpose fulfils.


Man gains no riches by robbing his brother;
	Nor grows he poor when supplying his need.
Each can enjoy but the portion God gives him;
	None may increase it by hoarding or greed.

Why should man strive for the wealth that must
		perish?
	Why freeze his heart for the hard yellow gold?
Gold never purchased one smile of affection,
	Nor could it kindle a friendship grown cold.

Love is God’s coin, with His image upon it;
	“In God we Trust” is its motto and sign;
This is the coin that is current forever, 
	Made in the mint of a nature divine.

Then, brother man, gain love for your brother?
	Come from your warfare of hatred and tears!
Be not content with the “flesh-pots of Egypt,”
	Gird on your strength, for the day-star appears.
						A. L. FISHER.


[Column 1]
KING GEORGE’S BIRTHDAY.
	King George of Saxony, was seventy-
two years old, on Aug. 8, 1904.
	The day was observed as a holiday in
Saxony. The German flag, and student’s
flags of green and white, and blue and yel-
low were flying in the breeze, the discharge
of guns, and cannon’s thundering roar.
Manuevers of troops, were also a feature of
the day’s celebration, in Dresden, Leipzig,
and other cities.
	In the evening, over the entrance door of
the old Raut Haus, Leipzig, a crown, about
three feet high, and two sun burst stars,
about two feet high, formed entirely of
small gas jets, was sparkling and glisten-
ing, as though composed of diamonds.
	The glittering spectacle, lighted the
whole of the old market square, used long
ago for a market. The Saxon coat of arms
are inlaid, in fine stones, in its pavement
still, right in front of the gleaming insig-
nia of royalty. The Raut Haus was used
by Napoleon to stable his horses in as well
as the churches, during his raid on this
land 1813.  It is a queer but well preserved
looking building. King George is not be-
loved by his people, as he demanded a raise
of two million marks annually, more than
was paid to his brother, the late King
Abucht. The result of this was, that when
the people paid their taxes, a slip of paper
was handed each one, for twenty-five per
cent more, for the crown, so that those who
struggled hard before for the common ne-
cessities of life, had their burdens heavily
increased, on the women directly or indi-
rectly much of this falls.
	It was a beautiful day, cool and free
from dust, as it had rained the day before.
A picnic had been arranged by a number
of friends. We were to go to a milk gar-
den four or five miles in the country where
milk fresh and sweet could be obtained. On
either said of the road, were rows of fruit
trees heavily laden, yet no one touched
them. We passed large fields of grain some
stacked ready for thrashing, in others the
gleaners were gathering up the remnants
of the harvest. But in every case it was
women, not a man to be seen. The only

[Column 2]
sight of the kind ever witnessed by the
writer there in full operation was a thrash-
ing machine, run entirely by women!
“Where are the men?” was asked. “Learn-
ing to be soldiers,” was the reply. Learn-
ing to be soldiers! Learning to be stood up
to be shot at, learning to be exiled to a bar-
racks life, every young man forced to give
two years of his life to the ruler, which is a
sore expense to his parents, if they are poor,
as of course, the most are.
	Never can they rise above the ranks,
never be advanced.
	The sons of the nobility are there for dis-
tinction and rule. Any of these officers,
for the first ten years of service, are paid
only about sixty marks a month ($15 00)
after that perhaps a hundred marks a month
and they are required to dress handsomely,
and live in like manner. So that of neces-
sity they must marry money, while the
poor cannot afford to marry at all unless the
wife carries the whole burden of life. Thus
it is that about one third, it is estimated, of
the population of monarchial countries, is
illegitimate.
	But recently, a circumstance came to the
knowledge of the writer, a respectable, but
poor widow, was taking care of two such
children, for which she was paid a pittance.
One was two months old, the other seven.
The father of the youngest child is a sold-
ier, so the poor, erring young girl must
pay for its support herself, while the father
of the other one, pays three marks a week
(75 cents) and the mother two marks for its
care. This is the second child born to this
pair, the first having died. They say they
are too poor to marry. “The outlook is
hopeless,” they say, unless they both work
and both save. It seems many, start life
this way, then after they are married, take
the other children home.
	But more often, either father or mother,
or both, go to some other part, forsaking
the helpless one, and leaving it to the tend-
er mercies of the poor house officials. A
woman, who was not paid for such a child,
according to the stipulation, decided to
turn it over to the county, but she was in-
formed, she would have to do the best she
could, as they were unable to take it, hav-
ing a thousand such children, already in the
institution, and it is not a very large city
either. O, the hardships of women and
children, and their degradation! And yet
their King, is the wealthiest monarch in
Europe. Near the farm we visited, a piti-
able object was standing by a gate. Perhaps
thirty years of age, a babe in her arms; a
common stuff skirt, old and shabby, came
just below her knees, on her feet a coarse
pair of shoes, and no stockings this com-
pleted her attire.
	She was not a common looking woman,
either; patience was written on her face,
and there was a trace, of what under hap-
pier conditions, would be termed “woman-
liness.” The farm women, carry a basket,
which bolds about two bushels (our meas-
ure) made square but deep, the corners have
a strong willow stick, about two inches
lower than the bottom of the basket, a


strap is fastened to the basket, with which
they bind it across their chests, then they
deftly wind it around two of the sticks, at
the bottom of the basket and tie it around
their waists.
	They seem to be strong, healthy and
happy. Their lot is certainly preferable to
that of the field women. Of the latter, it
is said, many come from Poland, work all
summer, then return to their own land. It
seems since the dismemberment of that ill
fated country, the people are desperately
poor, hence the situation of the women.
	How untiring they work, only raising
their bent backs for a moment, as they see
an unusual number of women passing so
unlike themselves.
	A fat yoke of oxen, are being fastened to
a wagon, a span of horses hitched to the
tongue. They had a head piece made of
wood, across their foreheads, which was
held by a kind of harness to the body. They
step proudly as they draw the load along,
even they look better than the poor women
in the fields. The working hours of a team
are not nearly so many as those of the wo-
men, teams are never worked like women,
and these are the mothers or wives of men!
	O, how far from the sphere, in which
God placed her as the helpmeet of man, not
a slave.
	On our return walk, some one asked the
question “do the frauen (women) work like
that in America?”
	Answer ye, from every hamlet of that
fair land! It is said that on the occassion of
the king’s recent visit to Rome he gave the
Pope 1,000,000 marks and that while the
people are Protestants he and Court are
Catholic.
			LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		A STRONG TESTIMONY.
Editors Womans Exponent.
	I have been thinking for some time that
I would again like to bear my testimony to
the truth of the everlasting gospel, that
was revealed to the youthful prophet Joseph
Smith. I have not seen the prophet but I
have read for myself many of his predic-
tions and know that they are true. I have
been a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints for over sixty-
two years and have never found anything
in all that time but what is in accordance
with the word of God. Is there a man upon
the earth today who is unguided by the
spirit of God, who could perform so great a
work in such a short time? I say no, there
is not, he lived as he died a martyer to
truth. Our Savior gave his life as a sacri-
fice for us that we may through obedience
to his laws gain eternal life, but the wicked
did not deem Him worthy to live.
	Did not Joseph Smith teach the same
principles and did not that same wicked
spirit follow him until his life was taken, for
no wrong that he himself had committed,
he went about doing good and teaching all
who would listen to his testimony which he
received direct from our Heavenly Father
and who would dare to deny it. Why do
the world close their eyes to the things
taught them by the servants of God? Why
will they take the downward course, is it
because they love darkness better than
light? The saints of God have nothing to
fear, if we will live up to the laws and com-
mandments of God as they have been laid

[Column 2]
down for us to live by, they will save and
exalt us in the kingdom of God; we know
for a surety that this work is of God, we
also know that the principle of plural mar-
riage was revealed to Joseph Smith from
our Father in heaven and is true and if we
live faithful to our covenants we will be ex-
alted in the kingdom of our Father, we
have nothing to fear but ourselves, will we
be true to ourselves and to our leaders? We
know they are men called of God to carry
on this great and mighty work and no
power beneath the heavens can stop its pro-
gress, the honest in heart will be gathered
from out the world and the wicked will be
cut off, and this earth will be redeemed and
Jesus Christ will come in the clouds of
heaven and reign upon the earth with all
those who remain faithful to the end. With
this knowledge what kind of Saints ought
we to be, we should be very careful never
to put a stumbling block in the way of
those who are constantly watching us, let
our lights shine and give no one a chance
to speak evil of us truthfully; but try to
live above reproach, we have our own rec-
ord to make, we make it each day of our
lives and will have it to meet let it be good
or bad. Then let us be very careful indeed
that we may feel proud and not ashamed
when the books are opened to us. Our
Father is very kind and merciful to us. I
often think we do not appreciate enough
the many blessings He is pouring out upon
his children, we are preserved from the cal-
amities which are daily being poured out
upon the nations of the earth; if we will in-
dulge in the pleasures of the world then we
must partake of her plagues. Those who
have been faithfully warned, and have
treated with contempt the truth will have
to meet it face to face.
	We should at all times be ready to give a
reason for the hope within us, always be
ready to bear our testimony to those who
will listen, we should never allow any one
to speak lightly of any of the principles of
the gospel, and woe to that people or nation
who shall lift their voice against the Saints
and woe unto those who are fighting against
God for He will as predicted come out from
his hiding place and vex the nations with
sore destructions.
	If we are faithful the Lord will fight our
battles and the small stone that was cut out
of the mountains without hands will roll
forth until it fills the whole earth, and no
power beneath heaven can stop it. The Lat-
ter-day Saints do not rely upon the arm of
flesh, they put their trust in that God who
led Israel out of bondage, and who has led
the Latter-day Saints through all their
trials of driving mobbing persecutions and
which they have endured for the Gospel’s
sake. And those who have lifted their hand
to stay the work of God will have to pay
the bill. I have seen many fall by the way-
side, but it has been those who have built
their faith upon a sandy foundation, those
who have built upon the rock stand firmer
and can not be shaken; but they will grow
and increase, until the perfect day. I feel
now that the whole world is arrayed against
us, we should be as wise as serpents, and
mind our own business, and the Lord will
pilot the old ship Zion safely into port, with
the faithful who have borne their cross, and
who have never doubted, this is my testi-
mony to all the world.
			Your sister in the gospel,
				SARAH B. LAYTON,
Kaysville, August 15, 1904.


ANNUAL MEETING D. R.
	The annual meeting of the Utah State
Society daughters of the Revolution was
held on Friday, June 10, 1904, at 10:30 in
room 509 Templeton Building, Salt Lake
City, Regent Isabel M. Whitney Sears pre-
siding, a majority of members present.
After prayer, the secretary, Mrs. Lucy
Woodruff Smith, read the minutes of the
May meeting and the last annual meeting,
June 10, 1903. The minutes of both meet-
ings were approved.
	A letter was read from the General Soci-
ety D. R. acknowledging the ten dollars
given by the Utah Society towards the tes-
timonial tendered to Miss Adeline W. Ster-
ling, the retiring Pre[-]ident General. Letter
was read from Mrs. Julia P.M. Farnsworth,
Chaplain, who was absent in Beaver at the
time, expressing her good wishes, and re-
gret at being away on so important an oc-
casion.
	Reports were then given by the officers
who had served during the past year. The
Regent, Mrs. I. M. W. Sears, referred to
the report made by her to the General So-
ciety, and expressed briefly her great pleas-
ure in the year’s work, thanking the mem-
bers for their support. Reports were given
by First Vice-Regent, Mrs. Phebe Young
Beatie, and S cond Vice-Regent, Mrs. Myra
Young Rossiter, Rec Sec’y, Mrs. Lucy W.
Smith, Cor. Sec’y, Mrs. Florence S. Sears,
Treasurer, Mrs. Elizabeth R. Wright, Reg-
istrar, Mrs. Maria Young Dougall, and
Historian, Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	It was moved by Mrs. Annie L. King,
seconded by Mrs. Ella W. Hyde, that all
the reports be accepted with thanks—car-
ried. It was moved by Mrs. Beatie and
seconded by several that a full report of the
meeting, including the Regent’s report,
to the General Society, be published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT—carried.
	Regent announced that the next business
would be the election of officers for the en-
suing year. The following members were
elected, nominations from the floor:
	Regent, Mrs. Phebe Young Beatie; First
Vice-Regent, Mrs Mary E. R. Webber;
Second Vice-Regent, Mrs. Annie Louise L.
King; Rec. Sec’y, Mrs. Clarissa Y. Spencer;
Asst. Sec’y, Mrs. Carol Y. Cannon; Cor.
Sec’y, Mrs. I. M. W. Sears; Treas., Mrs. Ella
W. Hyde; Registrar, Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall;
Historian, Mrs. E. B. Wells; Chaplain,
Mrs. Lucy W. Smith.
	Vacancies in the Council will be filled by
appointment of the Regent later. Annual
meeting closed with prayer and adjourned
to June 10, 1904.	E. B- W.


The Duke of Norfolk’s carelessness of
rank and homely manner make it almost
impossible to think of him as a duke.
There is probably some truth in the stories
which have their origin in his disregard of
dress. The Duke was going to Stonyhurst
College for Speech day, and a carriage met
him at the railway station, Two tall and
well-dressed gentlemen preceded him, and
as they reached the carriage an official
asked, “Stonyhurst, College, gentlemen?”
Upon replying “Yes,” they were allowed
to enter the carriage. Behind them came a
man not by any means faultlessly dressed,
and as he was about to step into the carri-
age the official said, “Stand away, please—
Duke of Norfolk’s carriage!” “Yes, I
know,” said the other,—“I am the Duke
of Norfolk!”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the Exponent.]
THE FLOATING TEA PARTY.
A MEMORY OF BERLIN.
From Wansu's pier we sail away,
	Adown the Havel fair;
By verdant banks and castles gray,
	Bright sunshine in the air.
How clear the water shimm’ring flows,
	As swift we speed along!
The small craft ever by us goes, 
With greeting and with song.
The band plays in the steamer’s bow,
	Songs famed in ev’ry land,
No foreign thought these guests allow,
	Where warm is proffered friendship’s hand.
O, Potsdam rising there in view,
	Where palaces abound;
Of thee come mem’ries not a few,
	Thy grandeur all around.
And there dwelt lovely Queen Louise,
	So famed in history;
The palace almost hid by trees,
	Her refuge proved to be.
Though many years have passed away.
	She is beloved still;
Her virtues living e’en today,—
	And they pure thoughts instil
Romantic, green is yonder isle,
	The steamer circles round;
While strains of music e’er beguile
The throng, with restful sound.
All hearts are beating full of praise,
	For honor freely shown.
The dainty viands—German ways,
	Politeness all their own.
All hail Berlin, most generous host!
	All hail: Berlin the fair;
‘‘Yet greater be” this is our toast.
	Thou city of “The Bear.”
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


PEACE RALLYING SONG.
	Sung by by Maria Freeman Gray at annual
supper of Pennsylvania Peace Society.

Again we see the glory of the coming of the
	Lord,
Again we hear a trumpet calling men to march
	aboard,
And unsheath again the lightning of Truth’s two-
	edged sword.
		For God is marching on.

We see an army forming in the tumults of the
	mart,
In the striving of the Nation, in the pulsing of her
	heart,
White her lips and pale her features; yet we see the
	people start, 
		For God is marching on.

It is the peaceful rousing, yet ’tis mightier than
	war,
’Tis a moving of the humble; yet they never shall
	withdraw.
Until Justice, Right and Freedom have been re-
	alized in law.
		For truth is marching on.

Through ages comes our message, “Love is truest
	liberty,
And the nation that is righteous is the nation that
	is free,
Hear ye, souls of men, a message that transfigures
	history.
		For God is marching on.

The brave and true then rally at the sound of
	marching feet
For we answer to a trumpet that shall never call
	retreat.
And we march beneath a banner that shall never
	know defeat,
		While God goes marching on.—Ex
	The above is a peace version of Julia Ward
Howe’s “Battle Hymn of the Republic.”


[Column 1]
CALL FOR THE SIXTH ANNUAL DEMON-
			STRATION.
ON BEHALF OF PEACE AND ARBITRATION.

	The Demonstration for Peace set as an
Annual Festival to be celebrated on each
recurring 18th of May was last spring, for
good and sufficient reason postponed. This
Demonstration will take place on October
8th. A letter has been issued to the Presi-
dents of National Organizations affiliated
with the National Council and to Presi-
dents of Local Councils and to members
of the Committee which we hope will result
in the following preparations for the Dem-
onstration.
	First: Clergymen throughout the coun-
try will be asked to devote one service on
Sunday, October 2nd to some phase of the
general subject of Peace and Arbitration.
Owing to the fact that the Thirteenth In-
ternational Congress of Peace is to open in
Boston on Monday, October 3d, the pastors
of the leading churches of that city have
already arranged to devote their morning
service to Peace. This should be an aid in
securing the attention of clergymen through-
out the country to the subject.
	Second: The aid of the Press is again in-
voked. It is hoped that local committees
on press will be organized in hundreds of
communities—that these committees will
put themselves into such relation with the
local press that the public mind may be
prepared for the special service on October
2nd and for the Demonstration on October
8th.
	Third: As the Thirteenth International
Peace Congress will occupy the first week
in October, it seems wise to avail ourselves
of the impetus to interest which must be
given by it, and to convene the Demon-
stration on Saturday, October 8th. The
hour for the meeting is not specified, since
every committee in making its arrange-
ments should be left free to consult local
tastes and local conditions. All members
of this committee and all members of sub-
committees charged with the arrangement
of programs are asked to see to it that
speakers and other participants are chosen
in about equal numbers from both political
parties and from various religious faiths,
since to be most successful the movement
must be in form what it certainly is in
spirit, entirely non-partisan and non-sectar-
an.
	Fourth: As in former Demonstrations re-
solutions of sympathy with women in other
countries will be submitted, and also in
order to test the feeling of the country and
to ascertain to what degree the attitude of
the International Council in Berlin is sup-
ported by public favor, votes of support will
be asked for the four propositions unanim-
ously voted at Berlin which in substance
were as follows—
	(a) The Council undertakes to continue
its scheme of popular education upon this
subject by preparing a bibliography in the
three official languages of the International
Council viz:—(English, French and Ger-
man) which shall include the best brief
presentations and appeals. These it will
undertake to distribute widely in all of the
countries belonging to the Council.
	(b) The Council asks each affiliated Nat-
onal Council to organize a committee of in-
vestigation whose business it shall be to
make a careful inspection of the histories
that are now being taught in the common 
schools of their respective lands. It is be-

[Column 2]
lieved by those introducing this proposi-
tion that it will be found that in many re-
spects these histories are calculated to fill
the minds of students with vanity, arro-
gance and prejudice. The object in making
such an inspection is to secure books which
will instil nobler ideas of patriotism and
which will reduce military achievment to
its proper place and give to the achievments
of Science, Art, and Industry their rightful
recognition.
	(c) It is desired that the Peace Tri-color
of royal purple, white and golden yellow
which was adopted by the Council as its
emblem shall be used at all meetings held
in connection with this Demonstration.
	It is hoped that the distinguished work-
ers for Peace from foreign countries who
will come over to the Thirteenth Interna-
tional Congress will remain in this country,
and that their services will be secured in
many places for independent Peace Meet-
ings. For information and for literature
concerning the Congress, and also concern-
ing foreign delegates who are to attend it
application may be made to Mr. Benjamin
F. Trueblood, the Secretary of the Commit-
tee of Organization 31 Beacon, St. Boston,
Mass.
	Bespeaking the earnest help of all whose
eyes may fall upon this public letter, hop-
ing that the Demonstration held under
such favorable auspices as must almost
necessarily be secured bv its being coincid-
ent with the close of the Boston Congress,
will surpass all preceding Demonstrations,
and thanking all of my co-workers in ad-
vance for the aid which they will lend to
this end, I have the honor to subscribe my-
self,
			MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
	Chairman of Committee on Peace and
Arbitration for the National Council of Wo-
men of the United States.
	August 15, 1904. Indianapolis, Ind.


ED[--]ORIAL NOTES.
	Errata: The Outline of Lectures for
Liberty Stake which appeared in our July
number of the paper should have been
signed Amanda F. Done, Laura L. Tanner,
Anna B. E. Iverson, Committee, instead of
the names that were appended. We are
very glad to make the correction.
	Stakes visited in the month of August
officially by the Relief Society sisters, are
Ensign, by President Bathsheba W. Smith,
and Sister Clarissa S. Williams; Cassia and
Union, Sisters Elizabeth J. Stevenson and
Hattie B. Harker; Juab, Sisters Clarissa S.
Williams and Alice M. Horne; Morgan and
Woodruff, Sisters Rebecca E. Little and
Annie Kay Hardy; Wayne, Sisters Sarah
J. Jenne Cannon and Susan Grant; Millard,
Sisters Mary Alice Lambert and Carrie S.
Thomas; Bingham, Fremont and Teton
Stakes, Sisters Margaret A. Caine and
Clara L. Clawson. Besides Stakes some
branches of the Relief Society have been
visited recently. Portland, Oregon, by
Sister E. J. Stevenson; Emmet, Sister H.
B. Harker, who also visited Denver and
Pueblo; Jackson’s Hole, in Idaho, by Sis-
ters M. A. Caine and C. L. Clawson. Sister
E. J. Stevenson also visited Emler, Baker
City, and Indian Valley. Sister C. C. R.
Wells visited Butte, Montana.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah 
Terms one copy one ear, $1.00 one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST, 1904


BUSINESS MEETING N. W. R. S.
	The annual business meeting of the Na-
tional Woman’s Relief Society will be held
on the first Monday in October (the 3rd)
commencing at 2 p. m. sharp, in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall in this city. All
members are invited to be present.
		BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
					General President.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
					General Secretary.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE. 
	The October Conference of the General 
Relief Society will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this city Wednesday 
Oct. 5, 1904, meetings commencing at 10
a. m. and at 2 p. m. as usual. All officers 
and members of the Society are cordially 
invited. It is desirable there should be an
authorized representative from each Stake 
organization if the President cannot be 
present. Presiding authorities of the Church 
Bishops and brethren interested in Relief 
Society work are also invited to attend the
meetings.
		BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
							President.
		ANNIE TAYLOR HYDE, 
		IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY,
							Counselors.


[Column 1]
		HOPEFUL SIGNS.
	Though war is raging in the far East at
the present time until one is sickened by
the daily telegraphic news, yet there are
some things tending towards better condi-
tions, and those who believe in the great-
ness of the near future must take into con-
sideration, not only the terrrible devastation
being made by war and its consequences,
but the struggles of many thousands, who
are laboring and praying for the more
peaceful methods of settling all difficulties
both between nations and communities.
	The great Peace meeting held in Berlin
during the late Congress of Women from
all the civilized countries of the world,
marks an epoch in the peace movement.
This peace meeting was convened last June
when the Russian-Japanese war was at its
height. It was held in Berlin, the capital
city of the most thoroughly militarized
country in Europe, viz. Germany. Not
only was the hall filled to its utmost capac-

[Column 2]
ity, but the aisles and the corridors were
packed. Speeches were made in English,
French and German, by most eloquent
and distinguished women speakers from
these countries, besides five minute speeches
from women representing each of the coun-
tries in the International Council (with
three exceptions) amid the most inspiring
enthusiasm. This may assuredly by reck-
oned one of the hopeful signs of the
times.
	The Inter-parliamentary Congress to be
held in St. Louis in September will no
doubt create a strong, and it is ardently
hoped, lasting impression upon the subjects
of peace and arbitration, as that Congrest
is to be composed of men;—the world’s
great and learned men; celebrated for their
wisdom and knowledge; men of world-wide
reputation filling high places in their native
countries.
	The Universal Peace Congress to be
convened in Boston Mass. the first week
in October will surely be another hopeful
sign; this great gathering will be composed
of both men and women; and in the blend-
ing together of these two strong forces a
better solution of great problems is likely
to be made, than where only men discuss
grave questions alone, even though congre-
gated in the world’s great Councils. The
agitation of the sentiment of peace from
one part of the country to another and from
country to country, through peace literature,
peace discussions and peace meetings is all
educational in the best sense of the word,
tending towards that higher ideal, that
broader intelligence, and better method of
comradeship which will inculcate love in-
stead of revenge, welding a sympathetic
bond between nations and individuals they
will eventually develop plans for settling
many of the gravest questions amicably
through arbitration, and thus promote a
higher attitude in the conduct of the world’s
work than that which has prevailed when
war the “resort to arms” was the watch-
word among the greatest and most power-
ful empires of the world.
	Notwithstanding the opinion that war
is necessary largely prevailing among many
peoples, yet there are powerful agen-
cies working in the opposite direction for
loftier and holier purposes than the destruc-
tion of immortal souls. It seems most fit-
ting that women the mothers of the race
should array themselves on the side of
peace. It is a matter of rejoicing that so
much is being done this present year, and
though the results may not be apparent in
fact, yet the growth of sentiment will be
spreading and the light that has come into
the world permeating the darkness will
grow brighter and brighter, and the con-
tact of peoples one with the other through
better facilities of travel will ultimately
bring all nations to a better understanding
of correct methods, and the Golden rule ap-
plied to all the relations of life and all the
governments of the world, will help bring
about the time when there shall be no more
war nor slaying of any living thing.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	Relief Society conference of the St. Joseph
Stake was held in the Layton meeting
house, June 11th, 1904. First Counselor
Salina Phillips conducting the meeting.

[Column 2]
Our conference was out of the usual in that
we met on Saturday in connection with
the Stake Quarterly Conference. By the
kindness of the presiding brethren we oc- 
cupied the whole day.
	President Elizabeth Layton reported that
all the ward organizations of the Relief So-
ciety had been visited by members of the
Stake Board since our last conference.
Found them all in good condition with an
increase of attendance. Said Relief Society
work brings out and develops the very
best qualities in human nature.
	All the wards were reported by their res-
pective presidents with the exception of St.
David, Matthews and Hubbard.
	The following subjects were talked on by
Sarah Webb, Olive Kimball, Fanny Kim-
ball and Emma Coleman: Reverence, nurs-
ing, obedience and child’s rights.
	The speakers were President Andrew
Kimball, C. M. Layton and W. D. John-
son, who emphasized the importance of re-
ducing to practice the good things we hear.
Advised parents to keep their children
children as long as possible, instead of try-
ing to push them ahead. Find employment
for them, keep them at home, especially at
night. Relief Society members are among
the best members in the Church. Keep
your bodies clean. Be cleanly in your 
homes, and the Lord will bless you.
	Patriarch Philemon Merrill dwelt upon
the prophecies of Joseph and Hyrum Smith
and the fulfillment of the same. 
	The day’s exercises were interspersed
with songs and recitations, which in all
was a very profitable and pleasing time.
		SARAH WEBB,
			Corresponding Secretary.

			ALPINE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Alpine Stake was held at Linden,
July 16, 1904. There were present from
Salt Lake City, President Bathsheba W.
Smith, and General Secretary Emmeline
B. Wells. The brethren of the stake presi-
dency were in attendance, also the stake
board and representatives from thirteen of
the fourteen branches of the stake, Presi-
dent Rebecca Standring presiding. Meet-
ing commenced at ten a. m. with singing,
prayer and usual opening exercises.
	President Standring welcomed all and
was pleased to see so goodly a number
present; was thankful to see our beloved
president, Bathsheba W. Smith, with us,
she had labored long and faithfully, and we
should be pleased to have instruction from
her.
	Reports were given by Orpha Robinson,
American Fork first ward; Sarah S. Chip-
man, American Fork second ward: Mary E.
Abel, American Fork third ward; Minnie 
Webb, American Fork fourth ward; Marion
Anderson; Lehi first ward; Armitta Clark,
Lehi second ward. Each reported her so-
ciety fully organized and all taking their
part cheerfully. Officers and members
are united and doing all they can for the
furtherance of the work.
	President B. W. Smith had been very
much interested in hearing the reports, had
worked in the Relief Society ever since the
days of Nauvoo, was present at the first or-
ganization and is the only one living who
was there at that time; heard the Prophet
Joseph say that after that time when he
had anything to give he should give it
through the Relief Society. He also said


[Column 1]
that the Church was not fully organized un-
til the Temple should be built. The branches
of this society are all doing a great work
and are pressing forward. They are called
upon to visit the sick and the poor. Felt
well to be here today and felt to bless the
Relief Society, and hoped we would live
our religion and not forget our duties.
	General Secretary E. B. Wells was the
next speaker. Was delighted to be here
and was interested in Relief Society work.
The Relief Society is first next to the
Church organization, but it is an auxiliary.
The Prophet Joseph was the one who or-
ganized this society, and Sister Smith has
worked in the society over sixty-two years.
Thought it was too bad to leave the older
sisters to do all the work, the young wo-
men, even the girls, can easily be enrolled,
and can help with the work. This society
extends all over the world, the sun never
sets on the Relief Society. We have thirty-
three thousand members. Sister Wells
knew that Sister Standring was the right
woman to be president, and felt that the
congregation was a credit to our beloved
president, Sister Smith. The Relief Soci-
ety own sheep, cattle, buildings, wheat and
money to buy more wheat. Deplored the
fact that we have not sufficient granaries to
hold our wheat. Mothers’ work should
not take first place, because we must have
testimonies, for without testimony the work
would die out. Mothers’ work is secondary,
said if you will bear testimony whenever
you have an opportunity, you will never
apostatize.
	President James H. Clark sald there had
been a good influence here today. The
Doctrine and Covenants has a passage that
instructs the people to be self-supporting.
These valleys and hills have poured out
their wealth for us, and yet much of what
we use is imported. His attention had been
called to the subject of silk ralsing. Presi-
dent Young had recommended this and
other home industries. Referred to his sis-
ter, Mrs. Annie S. Chipman, who had raised
fifty dollars worth of silk, and it was all ac-
complished in six weeks. Believed that
the time was at hand when this industry
would be taken up and become general
among us. This amount of silk can be
produced from ten trees, which may be
raised on the ditch bank. Spoke also of
other home industries. Referred to the un-
tiring labors of President B. W. Smith, her
endurance as a pioneer, and her long con-
tinued work in the Temple.
	Afternoon session commenced by sing-
ing, prayer, etc. Reports were given by
Julia Brown, Lehi fourth ward; Loulsa
Halliday, Pleasant Grove; Cordelia Thorne,
Linden; Sarah Atwood, Manila; and Mar-
garet Bennett, Cedar Fort. All reported
their wards in good condition. Unity and
love exist, they are laying up grain and
nearly all have good granaries, and take
pleasure in looking after the poor and
needy.
	President Standring had been pleased to
hear the reports. Some arrange their
work so as to be able to attend meetings,
while others donate to the society and
never come to meeting; wondered which
would get the best reward. Felt very
grateful to the sisters of Linden for their
hospitality and kindness to us today. It
had been the desire of her heart for many
years to see the advancement of silk cul-
ture, and believed that in the near future
some brother would have a mission to start
this industry and the sisters would fall in

[Column 2]
cheerfully and raise silk in such quantity
that all may wear it.
	President Smith hoped the sisters would
take hold of silk raising and make it a suc-
cess. Continued by saying this organiza-
tion would grow and increase, and never
die out. Read from the minutes of the first
teachings of the Prophet Joseph. The signs
should follow the believer and if the sis-
ters have faith enough to heal the sick, let
all others hold their tongues. We must
act in concert or nothing can be done,
etc. Sister Smith desired to hear all testi-
fy of the Prophet Joseph. Prayed for a
blessing on all assembled.
	Song, Martha Keetch “The Holy City.”
	Brother Chas. J. Thomas, of Salt Lake
City, made a few remarks in regard to as-
sisting the poor. They should not be treat-
ed as paupers, but aided and assistedas the
Lord’s poor, in sympathy and kindness.
	President Stephen S. Chipman re-
joiced with the sisters in the visit of our
sisters from Salt Lake. We have so many
workers now, that there is no necessity of
putting too much on one person, the labor
can be properly divided and all do his share.
Had rejoiced in the spirit manifested today.
Thought it would be hard to get as many
brethren together with as good results.
Desired to endorse the remarks of President
Clarke on the subject of home industries.
The Lord has blest us and blessed be the
name of the Lord. Prayed for a blessing
on our leading sisters and all who have at-
tended today.
	Sister E. B. Wells rejoiced greatly in the
gathering today and that the sisters had
had an opportunity of hearing our beloved
president, Bathsheba W. Smith. Spoke of
the silk industry and the necessity of fol-
lowing it up, also gave a report of the
efforts that were made in years gone by,
and the silk that was manufactured and the
handsome curtains made from the silk
raised here at home, for the World’s Fair
in Chicago. “We are going to have a
Woman’s Building, and we shall want
handsome curtains for that, but we cannot
have them unless we raise the silk.” Spoke
of the necessity of sending nurses to the
nurse class. How much would we have
known but for the Relief Society; had seen
women chosen for positions when she won-
dered what they could do, and had ob-
served a wonderful development in those
persons. Bore testimony of the Prophet
Joseph as a great prophet and a great leader.
	President A. J. Evans had been delighted
today, and felt to say “God bless these
mothers in Israel. Teach your daughters
that there is no principle so important as
the law given to our first parents, to multi-
ply and replenish the earth. May God
bless the sisters who love this work. Bore
testimony to the Prophet Joseph Smith and
his divine mission.
	An anthem was sung by the Linden
choir. Closing prayer by President Abel
J. Evans. Conference adjourned for three
months.
	EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Stake Sec-

HYRUM STAKE.
	The Hyrum Stake Relief Society confer-
ence, held at Hyrum, August 19, 1904.
	After the opening exercises of singing
and prayer, the roll was called showing all
of the wards represented.
	President Nellie N. Parkinson greeted all
with a kindly welcome and expressed her
pleasure in seeing so many present. Re-
ported the stake in good condition finan-

[Column 3]
cially and spiritually, the sisters are very
liberal. Was grateful for the visit of the
sisters from Logan.
	Sister Adeline Barber, of Logan, was
pleased to meet with the sisters of the Hy-
rum Stake, had not forgotten how they had
helped her in her efforts in silk raising.
Sister Barber was dressed throughout in
home-made silk of her own raising, she
said the labor of silk raising was easy if we
had the mulberry trees.
	Sister Oldham, of Paradise, read a lec-
ture prepared by Sister Louisa Gibbs, from
the outlines of mothers’ work on parent-
hood.
	Sister Mary E. Howell was delighted to
be present and see so many of the younger
sisters, as well as the older ones who al-
ways attend these meetings. Wondered if
the younger sisters would have the cour-
age to pass through the trials that the older
sisters have passed through.
	Patriarch C. O. Card said we could not
do better than to emulate the example of
the older brethren and sisters.
	Sister Elva Parkinson recited beautifully
As the Moon Arose.”
	Sister Zina Y. Card spoke of the great
work mothers have to raise their children
right, we should watch them and guard
them against wrong doing and evil of every
kind, admonish all, not to keep company
with vulgar people, one person can contam-
inate a whole community. Teach the chil-
dren good table manners, and above all to
pray, that they may know what to do in
times of trial and temptation. We should
rule our children in love and not be harsh.
	President William C. Parkinson had al-
ways felt that the Relief Society is one of
the best helps in the Church. Its mission
is a noble one, to look after the sick and
the poor and comfort the sorrowful. Spoke
of a model home; it isn’t wealth that brings
happiness, but being kind and doing our
duty to each other.
	Afternoon session. Sister Campbell, of
Providence, was the first speaker. Referred
to woman’s great mission to bring forth
bodies for the spirits that are eagerly await-
ing a coming forth on the earth, also spoke
of family prayer.
	President I. C. Thoresen spoke of the
good work done by the sisters in looking
after the sick and poor, and also after
the spiritual welfare of those that are weak.
Urged all to go to the Temple at least
once a year.
	Counselor Elizabeth Critchlow felt that
it was a glorious privilege we have in at-
tending these meetings and one we should
appreciate and enjoy.
	Sister Jane E. Molen had been away
from the Saints for a short season, had felt
the want of the priesthood, as she had been
sick and no Elders near to administer to
her. Was glad to be at home among the
Saints again.
	Sister Salina Parks sang “Home, Sweet
Home.”
	Sister Anna M. Ralph urged the moth-
ers to visit the meetings of the Y. L. A.
occasionally and see what their daughters
were doing, also that they be companions to
their daughters.
	“The Holy City” was rendered by the
Sisters Mayer of Wellsville.
	Sister Zina Y. Card addressed the congre-
ference on the use of the franchise, showed
how it could be made a blessing to every
community by voting for the best men or
women regardless of politics.
	Georgene Ralph thought we had been


[Column 1]
greatly blessed in our meeting together. 
Hoped all would carry the good spirit and 
instructions to their homes and to the sis-
ters that were unable to be present. 
President Nellie N. Parkinson, in behalf 
of the sisters of the Stake, presented Sister 
Adeline Barber with a purse of $44.30, to 
show the esteem and love they had for her 
as the pioneer president of the Cache Stake 
Relief Society. 
While Sister Barber was composing her-
self, the Sisters Mayer again favored us 
with a song. 
Sister Barber thanked the sisters for 
their kindness. Asked the Lord to bless 
them all. 
Sister Mary Howell and President George 
Pitkin each spoke briefly. Sister Selina
Parkes sang “I know that My Redeemer
Lives.” Conference adjourned for three 
months. Benediction by Bishop H. L. 
Liljenquist. 
GEORGENE RALPH, Sec. 
WASATCH STAKE. 
The annual Relief Society conference 
of the Wasatch Stake convened on June 15,
1904, at 10 a.m and 2 p.m, in the stake 
tabernacle. Meetings were well attended 
by the general stake authorities, local offic-
ers, and sisters of the society. Sisters Car-
rie S. Thomas and Rebecca Little, repre-
senting the General Board of the Relief So-
ciety,, were also present. 
The reports from the various ward officers 
showed the condition of the work to be in 
a progressing state. A paper was read by 
Rose A. Musser, “Character laid in youth.” 
Alice Baird recited “Poorhouse Man.”
The financial condition of the branches 
of the Relief Society were shown to be in 
good condition by the report of the stake
secretary.
The visiting sisters gave excellent advice 
along the lines of Relief Society work, 
dwelling on the necessity of exercising 
kindness and charity in our labors, the 
necessity of looking after the poor and 
needy, and learning the Gospel and how to 
live it through the mother's work were em-
phasized.
President Wm. A. Smart commended the 
past work of the sisters and encouraged 
greater labors in the future; paid a glow-
ing tribute to the aged sisters, whose labors 
have done so much in the development of 
the work of the Lord in this stake of Zion, 
urged them to continue to assist in the work. 
SARAH K. DUKE, Stake Secretary. 
BOX ELDER STAKE. 
The Relief Society conference of the Box 
Elder Stake convened in the Tabernacle, 
Saturday, May 21, 1904, President Susan-
nah P. Booth presiding. On the stand 
were the stake. officers and Sister Mary 
Alice Lambert of Salt Lake City. 
After the usual exercises, President 
Booth expressed herself pleased with the 
attendance, felt the Spirit of the Lord would 
be with us.
Mantua reported by Christena Jenson, 
next, Bear River City; President Love-
land, of Deweyville, said “on account of 
quarantine the work at that place could 
not progress as well this winter, but were 
able now to continue their work. Sister
Thorn, of Perry, spoke of that society and
mother’s work. President Mary S. Tol-
man, Honeyville; Mary Fridal, Elwood; 
Julia Bingham, Garland, spoke of work in 
the respective wards. President Annie S.

[Column 2]
Johnson, First ward, Brigham City, re-
ported that as doing well. President Har-
per, of North ward, reported that ward. 
President Booth introduced Sister Lam-
bert, who said: “I am a stranger to most 
of you, but we are all working in the 
same cause; spoke of arranging work so 
as to be able to attend meetings. We are 
all interested in mother’s work; said Sister 
B. W. Smith does not want us to refer to
mother’s work as a class; spoke on singing 
as it is an important feature; related some 
of her experiences, of the Prophet Joseph 
Smith; spoke of teaching the children the 
principles of the Gospel by living them our-
selves; said that Sister Smith sent her love 
to the sisters. 
Afternoon session opened by singing and
prayer, etc. President Bowen, of Beaver; 
Mary E. Ward, Willard; President Emma 
Lee, Third ward Brigham City, reported 
respective wards as doing well. A quartette
was rendered by members of the choir.
President Sarah Wilde, of the Fourth ward 
Brigham City; Martha Pierce, Thatcher;
President Boden, Second ward Brigham 
City, all gave favorable reports, mention-
ing the death of Sister Hannah Jenson, 
who was a teacher for several years. 
The Scandinavian Society was reported 
by President Emma Pratt, and she said 
that they had sent the money to emigrate 
an older Sister and young girl from the old 
country.
President Booth thought she could report 
Park Valley, said they were getting along 
as usual; their secretary had died last win-
ter—one who had done faithful work. Pres-
ident Kelly sent word that he was detained 
and could not attend the conference. Two 
letters were read, one from Stone, Idaho, 
and one from Snowville.  A solo was ren-
dered by Sister Mayhew. 
Sister Lambert was pleased with the re-
ports, urged the sisters to improve and keep
on in the great work. Sister Emilia Mad-
son spoke on the mission of mothers. 
President Booth felt to thank Sister 
Lambert for the good instructions, and ex-
pressed her pleasure and satisfaction at the 
conference; after singing, the benediction 
was pronounced by Sister Emmeline Wat-
kins, and conference adjourned for six 
months. 
		LETTIE FORSGREN, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM. 
	Sister Mary M. Findlay Mathews was the daugh-
ter of Allen M. and Jeanetta Ireland Findlay. 
She was born in Salt Lake City April 4, 1862. She 
came to Panacca, Nev., with her parents in the 
year 1872. On February 20, 1884, she was married 
to Philip Mathews. In the year 1892 she was 
chosen as secretary of the Panacca Ward Relief 
Society, which position she filled with equity and
justice till her death, which occurred July 21, 
1904. She leaves a devoted husband, four chil-
dren, a brother and sister, besides a host of other 
relatives and friends to mourn her loss. 

	RESOLUTIONS. 
	Expressions of love and respect to the memory 
of Sister Mary M. Findlay Mathews, who departed 
this life July 21, 1904. 
	Whereas, our much esteemed sister and co-
laborer has by the hand of Divine Providence, 
been removed from our midst, and has, we feel, 
confidently assured, gone to a better world; 
therefore be it 
	Resolved, That we strive to emulate her un- 
swerving faith, her fidelity to purity and truth, her 
devotion to home and religious duties, and her 
humility, respect and obedience to proper au-
thority. 
	Resolved, that we tender our heartfelt sympathy 
to the family of the deceased, and that they, and


we the sisters of the Relief Society, with which,
she was connected so long, may follow her ex-
amble by diligence and faithfulness.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family, that a copy be sent to the
Woman’s Exponent for publication and a copy
be placed on the ward record of the Society.
				LIZZIE LEE BUTLER,
								Secretary.


MOTHER’S WORK.
		MARICOPA STAKE.
Lecture I.— Woman, Know Thyself:
	“Oh, Woman! Woman! know thyself,
		And know thy mission too:
	Thou comest from thy Maker’s hand
		A mighty work to do.”
							E. R. Snow.
	a—Necessity of studying well your own
character before undertaking responsibility
of wife and mother. Ref. Imp. Era, vol.
5, No. 3, p. 184. Young Woman’s Journal
