
[Handwritten in pen, "W. Exponent"]
Woman’s Exponent
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation. 
Vol. 33 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE, 1904 No. 1.


CONTENTS. 

Extracts from Letter..........Alice Merrill Horne	1
Farmers Ward Relief Society........Sister Mains 2
Mothers' Work- South Sanpete..........................2
Relief Society Nurse Class....Emma A. Empey	3
Notes and News.................................................3
Relief Society Reports.......................................5
In Memorium.....................................................6
Items from Berlin...............................................7
The Berlin Meetings...........................................7
EDITORIAL- Thirty-third Volume....................4
A Decade of Service...........................................4
Birthday Anniversary..........................................4
A Happy Birthday Part.......................................4
POETRY- The Women Who Went to the Field
.......................................................Clara Barton 1


[Column 1]
“THE WOMEN WHO WENT TO THE
			FIELD.”

The women who went to the field, you say,
The women who went to the field; and pray
What did they go for—just to be in the way?
They’d not know the difference betwixt work and
	play?
And what did they know about war, anyway?
What could they do?—of what use could they be?
They would scream at the sight of a gun, don’t
	you see?
Just fancy them round where the bugle-notes play,
And the long roll is bidding us on to the fray.
Imagine their skirts ’mong artillery wheels, 
And watch for their flutter as they flee ’cross the
	field
When the charge is rammed home and the fire
	belches hot;
They never will wait for the answering shot.
They would faint at the first drop of blood in their
	sight.
What fun for us boys,—(ere we enter the fight);
They might pick some lint, and tear up some
	sheets
And make us some jellies, and send on their
	sweets,
And knit some soft socks for Uncle Sam’s shoes,
And write us some letters, and tell us the news.
And thus it was settled, by common consent,
That husbands, or brothers, or whoever went,
That the place for the women was in their own
	homes.
There to patiently wait until victory comes.
But later it chanced—just how, no one knew—
That the lines slipped a bit, and some ’gan to
	crowd through;
And they went,—where did they go?—Ah! where
	did they not?
Show us the battle, the field, or the spot
Where the groans of the wounded rang out on the
	air
That her ear caught it not, and her hand was not
	there:
Who wiped the death sweat from the cold, clammy
	brow.
And sent home the message—“’Tis well with him
	now;”
Who watched in the tents whilst the fever fires
	burned;
And the pain tossing limbs in agony turned;
Who wet the parched tongue, calmed delirium’s
	strife
Till the dying lips murmured, “My mother,” “My
	wife.”
And who were they all?—They were many, my
	men:
Their records were kept by no tabular pen:
They exist in traditions from father to son,
Who recalls, in dim memory, now here and there
	one.
A few names were writ, and by chance live today;
But’s a perishing record, fast fading away.
Of those we recall, there are scarcely a score;
Dix, Dame, Bickerdyke, Edison, Harvey and
Moore,

[Column 2]
Fales, Wittenmeyer, Gilson, Safford and Lee,
And poor Cutter dead in the sands of the sea;
And Frances D. Gage, our “Aunt Fanny” of old,
Whose voice rang for freedom when freedom was
	sold.
And Husband, and Etheridge, and Harlan and
	Case.
Livermore, Alcott, Hancock and Chase.
And Turner, and Hawley, and Potter and Hall!
Ah! the list grows apace, as they come at the call, 
Did these women quail at the sight of a gun?
Will some soldier tell us of one he saw run?
Will he glance at the boats on the great western
	flood,
At Pittsburg and Shiloh, did they faint at the
	blood?
And the brave wife of Grant stood there with
	them then,
And her calm stately presence gave strength to his
	men.
And Marie of Logan: she went with them too;
A bride, scarcely more than a sweetheart, ’tis
	true.
Her young cheek grows pale when the bold troop-
	ers ride.
Where the “Black Eagle” soars, she is close at his
	side;
She staunches his blood, cools his fever-burnt
	breath,
And the wave of her hand stays the Angel of
	Death;
She nurses him back, and restores once again
To both army and state the great leader of men.
She has smoothed his black plumes and laid them
	to sleep
Whilst the angels above them their high vigils
	keep:
And she sits here alone, with the snow on her
	brow—
Your cheers for her, Comrades! Three cheers for
	her now.
And these were the women who went to the war:
The women of question; what did they go for?
Because in their hearts God had planted the seed
Of pity for woe, and help for its need;
They saw, in high purpose, a duty to do,
And the armor of right broke the barriers through.
Uninvited, unaided, unsanctioned ofttimes,
With pass, or without it, they pressed on the lines;
They pressed, they implored, ’till they ran the
	lines through,
And that was the “running” the men saw them
	do.
’Twas a hampered work, its worth largely lost;
’Twas hindrance, and pain, and effort, and cost;
But through these came knowledge,—knowledge
	is power,—
And never again in the deadliest hour
Of war or of peace shall we be so beset
To accomplish the purpose our spirits have met,
And what would they do if war came again?
The scarlet cross floats where all was blank then.
They would bind on their “brassards” and march
	to the fray.
And the man liveth not who could say to them
	nay;
They would stand with you now, as they stood with
	you then,—
The nurses, consolers, and saviors of men. 
						CLARA BARTON.


[column 1]
	EXTRACTS FROM LETTER. 
	ALICE MERRILL HORNE. 
	Since Snnday last we have traveled a 
long way and seen many many strange 
sights. Last Sunday we left Liverpool in 
the morning, landed at London in the even-
ing. This morning we left Brussels and 
and arrived this evening at Cologne. What 
a wonderful change, we like it all. The 
weather has been favorable and we have 
seen things at their best. London smiled 
until we were leaving when she clouded up 
and cried a bit as they say. Oh but the 
National Gallery there fine, fine. I like all 
[column 2]
the great masters. The National Academy 
is so funny. I am proud of our artists for 
the number of canvases we have, I don't
blame Taggart for thinking we make a good 
showing in Utah Art Exhibitions. I feel 
so glad to know how to compare them with 
Eastern, and European artists of today. 
The National Gallery in London has some 
wonderful Rembrandts and Velasquez 
though I like the Boston one better than
any I have seen yet. 
We were interested in the Bank of Lon-
don and London Bridge, and Oh the won-
derful Trafalger square we saw so many 
times, passing over "The Strand." Lud-
gate Hill, Rotten Row, Victoria Street, Pall 
Mall, St. James, etc. Where a number of 
streets come together they call it the cir-
cus, and Ludgate circus. There is much to 
be seen in London. It is a great big world.
We did not go to the Tower. One day we 
rode down the Strand just to see how far 
we could go for one drive on the bus; we 
went 16 miles for 8 cts, and then we were 
tired, but its so interesting to ride on top of
the bus. Dr. Snow seemed pleased to see us 
and met us up town one day. He may join 
us in Paris. The Parliament houses are fine 
looking structures. There were so many 
names familiar from association in reading
various books, such as "Old Curiosity
Shop" "The Horse Guards" &c. 
We left London for Dover and Ostend 
and Brussels, Friday afternoon. Dover is 
picturesque on the high cliffs. The trip
across the channel is beastly, I dread going 
back. As soon as one lands in Holland 
everything looks so different. The houses 
are Dutchy the gardening different, women 
are hoeing and raking with their wooden
shoes on. The windmills are so picturesque,
the houses are low and flat, the gardens are 
scrupulously kept, the trees are tall and
fringey—on either side the fringe grows up 
the tall trunk. Holland reminds me of 
Nebraska country, only the green is more
luxuriant. 
At Brussels we found a beautiful city and 
a grand old Church St. Gudule built in the 
14th. century. There is a woman figure 
with electric lights around her. There are 
statues of all the Apostles. The windows 
are very rare. The Church is built on a hill 
affording a splendid view. The art gallery 
has some fine early Dutch art. Our hotel 
Du Porte was very nice; they served good 
meals; we have been advised to drink no 
water and we are very thirsty. Miss C. is
a good traveler, she does remarkably well; 
we saw the lace making and the real laces; 
they are lovely and very inexpensive here.
We secured some Post cards of Waterloo
field, Churches and museums, left Sunday 
morning after talking, and getting some 
points from two Americans; we found some 
nice people on the way a lady and two chil-
dren French but nice; had the custom's 
official who merely looked in our grips.
Their country roads are a marvel; numbers 
seem to be traveling on bicycles; the chest-
nut and other trees are all in bloom. A
holiday something like Easter is on—flags
everywhere. Old chateaus on the mountain 
or rather hill side are very beautiful, every


foot of the way we have come is beautiful 
from the fields at the edge of Liverpool. I 
am now at the hotel Belgium in Mayence 
or Mentz.
	We arrived last evening and the trip from 
Cologne down to this point has not been 
touched by word-painting, words simply
are of no avail in giving a true representa-
tion of it. 
	Our hotel Disch at Cologne is a beautiful 
old place. At every turn some one waits 
for a tip and they all want so much too. On 
the boat the woman held one end of the 
towel while I used the other waiting for a 
tip. 
	We leave now for Heidleberg on board 
the Augusta Victoria, nothing can compare 
with the Rhine. The Hudson is not to be 
mentioned in connection with it. I hear Tag-
garts are in Paris and will be able to see
them. Tips everywhere until you do not
know where you are at. 
Visited Heidleberg castle today. It is a 
beautiful old place, the deep moat around 
it cannot be seen in the picture, from the 
front can be seen the lovely river, old 
houses, fine flowering trees, universities of 
Heidleberg etc. We met two English ladies 
who went with us for a drive to see the 
places of interest.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


FARMERS WARD RELIEF SOCIETY. 
	I feel it a great pleasure to express my
feelings on this occasion, although it be my 
first attempt, in this line, to write a few 
lines at the departure of our Sister Naomi 
Woodruff from our midst. Co-laborer in 
the missionary work and also in the Relief 
Society. 
We her sisters do sincerely pray that the 
blessings of the Lord may attend her, that 
she may enjoy health and strength during 
her absence from us, and may she meet with 
as warm friends as she has done among her 
neighbors here, and they feeling her influ-
ence for good, may be pricked in their 
hearts to further investigate the principles 
of life and salvation, and glorify their 
Father which is in Heaven, that she may 
fully realize the desires of her heart in 
righteousness, and in connection with her 
husband be the means in the hands of the 
Lord of doing much good. 
We trust Sister Naomi that you realize 
the affection and love that we have for you, 
that feeling of warmth that comes through 
the Spirit of the Gospel that we feel to love 
the honest in heart, throughout the length 
and breadth of the earth, all that truly have
a desire to serve their Maker in purity of 
heart, a love that I had not realized to such 
an extent, until I became a member of the 
Relief Society Sisters; these words express 
the feelings that I wish to portray that do 
exist among our Sisters. 
We feel to wish Brother and Sister Wood-
ruff and family God speed. May they have 
a pleasant time and return in safety. We
shall look forward for that time with pleas-
ure to again greet you, and enjoy your soc-
iety, and our constant prayers will be for 
our associates in the cause of Truth. 
SISTER MAINS.


Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt has been elect-
ed president of the International Suffrage 
League; Dr. Anita Augspurg, of Germany, 
first vice president, and Mrs. Rachel Foster 
Avery of Philadelphia, secretary.


[Column 1]
	MOTHER’S WORK.

	SOUTH SANPETE STAKE.

Lecture 7.—Mother's love and influence

	The influence that the mother has upon
the child before and after birth can not be
estimated. A mother’s love cures the pains
and ills of childhood, soothes the pangs of
youth, comforts and inspires man through
the battles of life. A mother can keep the
confidence of the children by listening to
them while they are small and they will
continue to confide in her when they be-
come larger and by inviting their confidence
she can direct them aright. The desire of
every true mother is to do good in the
world and she can do this best by rearing a
family who are strong, intelligent and God-
fearing. Day by day a mother has the
opportunity of implanting high or low
ideals, true or false ambitions in the child.
A true mother will make a happy home
whether poor or rich Peace, love and con-
tentment come from within and make our
environments. The influence of a mother
upon her family is in proportion to the love
existing between herself and family. Great
men attribute their success to their mother's
influence. Mother love is the sweetest and
purest of all human affections. Do not be
afraid to lavish it upon your children; it
makes your memory a hallowed one and
gives you power to influence their lives.

	QUESTIONS.

	Give examples of the world’s great men
who attribute their success to their mother’s
influence. How can a woman do the most
good in the world? Show why a loving
mother can influence her child more than
any one else.
	C. L. E.

Lecture 8.— What to tell Our Girls.
	It is one thing to possess knowledge, and
quite another thing to impart it to others.
We are told to “instruct our girls,’’ as if it
were the easiest thing in the world to do,
when in reality it is one of the hardest.
	Warn her against vulgar stories she may
hear, and ask her to tell you everything her
playmates tell her. Then you will have a
chance to correct errors, and warn against
impure teachings and harmful associates, as
well as lay a foundation for future confid-
ences and close companionship.
	E. C. D.

Lecture 9.— What to tell Our Boys.
	WHO shall tell them? The fathers should,
in case that fails the mothers must.
	If it is difficult for a mother to talk to her
girl, it is ten times more so for her to talk
to her boy, but for the sake of his health and
life and character, it is just as necessary
that it should be done, though from a some-
what different stand point. Mothers too
often think that the fathers do this import-
ant work and making no inquiries silently
trust that that the son is put on his guard,
and thus trusting the infant becomes a lad,
a youth, and finally a man in ignorance,
and too often in vice and wickedness. Ig-
norance is not innocence, nor is it even a
safeguard. Fathers are busy, and away from
the family a great deal of their time, and it
is a delicate subject, needing more tact and
ingenuity than many men possess. The
mother is at home, and can if she seeks for
it, find the boy in a thoughtful moment,
when all the better qualities and the tender-

[Column 2]
ness of his nature is alert, and if she speaks
at the proper time, all may be well.
	1. Explain the action of work on devel-
oping muscles.
	2. Explain the action of food on muscles
and brain.
	3. Explain the action of tobacco on
muscles and brain.
	4. Explain the action of liquors on
muscles and brain.
	5 Explain the action of tea, coffee and
high seasoned food.
	6. Give a list of food best suited to the
growth of the young.
	7. Show how disease of one part of the
body makes all of the body ill by illustra-
tion.
	8. Show how inflammation of different
parts affect the brain, and what parts of the
body has the strongest effect on the mind.
	E. C. D.

Lecture 10.—Mothers advice to marriage-
able Sons and Daughters.

	Before young people take upon them-
selves the responsibilities of husband and
wife they should understand that there is
no more important step between the cradle
and the grave than marriage, that it is the
proper way for nature to develop self con-
trol, patience, industry, and strengthen all
their virtues, that a true marriage is a per-
fect union of the body and spirit, and that
there are many heavy responsibilities they
will have to carry for their obligations are
not alone to themselves and each other, but
they owe duties to their Creator, to their
fellow beings, and to yet unborn human-
ity.
Here this already overworked, careworn
mother seems to be the only person fully
qualified to talk.  No one else can so fit-
tingly take the blushing girl aside, and
draw from her the confessions of love, the
announcement of the engagement, the plans
for the coming union, and the bright hopes
for her future womanhood. No one like a
mother can approach so near the sacred se-
crets of a son in the early dignity of mature
manhood. And there is no time in the life
of a human being, when they can so readily
be approached, or when they are so anxious
to learn.
	Take then, your hero son, and tell him
of the coming needs for himself and his
wife FINANCIALLY, remind him of the nec-
essity of his keeping within his means, for
debt at the start is succeeded, and often
ended, with privations and vexations innu-
merable.
	Paul says ‘‘he who does not provide for
his own household has already denied the
faith.” Tell him how neatness and care
in all that he does will lighten the labor of
his wife, and increase her respect and tend-
erness for him, and that it is his duty to
shield her from every care and anxiety re-
garding physical wants that he possibly
can. And if necessary explain the suffer-
ing of her body and the strain on her nerves
during the child-bearing period.
	And to the fair young daughter explain
that “wastefulness is wickedness,” and that
a careless wasteful wife can spend and des-
troy anything the best provider can furn-
ish, and have very little to show for it.
Tell her that her happiness and the peace
of her household depends in a great meas-
ure on her economy in food, fuel, furniture
clothes, strength and time. Above all the
accomplishments she should possess, that of
being a really good cook is the most desir-


[Column 1]
able, and to be that, the thing above all 
others that she should know best how to do 
is to bake good bread. 
If good bread is in the house one always 
feels that there is something to eat. 
	QUESTIONS AND SUGGESTIONS.

	1. Why is marriage the most important 
step in life? 
2. How does it develop self control, pa-
tience, industry?
	3. Name other virtues improved by it.
	4. Name duties married people owe to 
the Lord, to humanity. 
5. Explain how love makes people more 
pliable.
	6. What do you think of young men 
giving presents to girls? 
7 What do you think of expensive 
weddings and their effects? 
8. Why should the husband relieve his 
wife of financial cares?
	9. Illustrate how a wife can economise,
food, fuel, clothes, time strength, and
furniture.
	10. Give a short talk on bread making. 
E. C. D. 
Lecture 11 — With the children on Sunday. 
"Remember the sabbath day and keep it 
Holy." 
THE BEST DAY OF THE WEEK—Have
this day different from other days Have a 
box of Sunday playthings. Little children 
enjoy putting away their other toys on Sat-
urday evening almost as much as getting 
out the toys Sunday morning.
	If you hear or read a story suited to the 
Sabbath keep it for that day. 
	PLAYTHINGS FOR THE SUNDAY BOX.—

	Building blocks, Noah’s Ark, kindergar-
ten blocks, colored pencils, Bible games or 
any thing that will entertain a child in a 
quiet way. Children must have something 
to employ them, even if it is Sunday. 
	TEACH THEM TO THINK OF OTHERS 
ON SUNDAY.—A quiet drive or a walk in 
the country with parents are all in harmony
with the day. Let them gather flowers for 
some old lady, autumn leaves for a sick 
friend or berries for a playmate.
	Let them cut pictures and make a scrap-
book for little friends, etc. Hallow all 
these pastimes with loving thoughts of the 
dear Father in Heaven who wants us to be 
kind to His other children who are poor, 
sick or neglected.

	CHURCH DUTIES--Encourage the chil-
dren to help mother so she may visit the 
Sabbath School and be interested in the 
work. Take time to ask about the teacher 
listen to the little lesson.
	After the evening meal, that all have 
helped prepare, mother may read stories 
from the Bible, Book of Mormon and teach 
many beautiful lessons from good pictures. 
Teach the Books of the Bible and where 
to find them. 
After the story encourage discussion.
Sing with the children hymns and songs 
suited to the day. Make Sundays at home 
delightful to look upon in after years. 
M. L. G. 
Lecture 12.—Kindergarten work at Home. 

	“Come let us live with our children"-
Froebel. 

[Column 2]
	Mothers who live at a distance from a
Kindergarten may find some occupation,
in the Kindergarten “gifts and occupa-
ions” to help them in training their chil-
dren at home. 
	THE FIRST GIFT presented to baby 
when he begins to observe is the ball A set 
of six colored balls, blue, yellow, red, green 
orange and purple. The child learns color
form, motion and many little helpful 
games. Exercise the faculty of “make-
believe,” which is the dearest delight to 
the child.

	THE SECOND GIFT is a wooden sphere, 
cylinder and cube. These also are made 
the medium of many simple games in which 
the child is kept active.

	THE THIRD, FOURTH, FIFTH, AND 
SIXTH GIFTS are what we should most all 
call “blocks.” They are all cubes differ-
ently divided into smaller cubes oblong
blocks, half and quarter cubes of various 
sizes. By this means the child is able to 
divide his old friend, the cube, into its com-
pound parts and study them. 
	THE SEVENTH GIFT is a number of 
square and triangular tablets of wood of 
different colors, by which plain surfaecs 
may be represented. They show the differ-
ent kinds of triangles. These may be 
made from card-board.

	THE EIGHTH AND NINTH GIFTS are 
slats unfolding like a carpenters rule to be 
used in interlacing or weaving.

	THE TENTH GIFT is a number of round 
or square sticks about as thick as a match.
Questions are asked where they come from,
leading up to the different kinds of wood,
etc. These teach deftness to the little fin-
gers as nicety of touch is required to lay 
different forms. Tooth-picks can be used 
in the home at five cents per 1000.

	THE ELEVENTH GIFT consists of whole 
and half wire rings. Like the sticks they 
are used to teach form and give the little 
pupil a glimpse of the powers and proper-
ties of curved lines.

	THE TWELFTH GIFT, the thread game, 
is neither more nor less than the immortal
“cat’s cradle” put to new uses. The chil-
dren are taught to tie various knots, and 
after dampening the thread to arrange with 
a pointer in different forms on a slate ruled 
in squares, accustoming them to measure 
distances with the eyes. 
	THE THIRTEENTH GIFT is embodied in 
seeds, shells, pebbles, beads, etc., which are 
arranged on a strip af oil-cloth divided into 
squares to form designs. The child is also 
exercised in sorting the different materials 
into heaps or groups.
	Nothing permanent is made with the 
gifts they are dissolved into their original
parts.

	OCCUPATIONS.

	THE FIRST OCCUPATION is perforating 
or pricking. Designs are pricked on a card
board.
	THE SECOND OCCUPATION is sewing.
Sew the designs that have been pricked 
with colored thread. 
THE THIRD is a slate grooved in squares 
for drawing.
	THE FOURTH is coloring and painting. 
	THE FIFTH OCCUPATION, paper inter 
lacing, making pretty designs. 

[Column 3]
	THE SIXTH OCCUPATION, is the art of 
weaving, the warp and woof being both of 
paper.
	THE SEVENTH OCCUPATION, paper fold-
ing, producing many beautiful forms.
	THE EIGHTH is the paper mounting, 
permitting the free use of the blunt scissors, 
which every child loves.
	THE NINTH OCCUPATION, pea, or cork
work, requires soaked peas or corks and 
with the tooth pick many forms and objects 
can be represented. 
THE TENTH OCCUPATION, card board 
modelling, begins with simplest forms, a 
little square box for instance, gradually in-
creasing in difficulty until sets of furniture 
are made. 
THE ELEVENTH OCCUPATION, model-
ling in wax or clay. He begins by model-
ling sticks and er ds with greater things.
	“Clay is the work of the child”
	“We learn through doing.”
	Froebel.
	M. L. G.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS 1904-5. 
	The above class will commence Sept.
19th, 1904, continuing eight months. Four 
lessons a week will be given by Dr. Mar-
garet C. Roberts, the Class Instructor, and 
lectures by other physicians and surgeons 
of Salt Lake. There will also be a course 
of lectures on cooking and other important 
subjects connected with the nurse profession 
by members of the General Board of the 
Relief Society or by those whom they may
appoint.
	Charges for tuition $10.00.
	Students will purchase their own text 
books designated by the class Instructor.
	The students shall each sign a contract 
to nurse for charity for seventy-five days or 
whatever pay shall be designated by the 
superintendent for two-years from the date 
of graduation.
	Any one desiring to take the nurse course 
and not paid for by the Relief Society of 
her ward may do so by paying the ten dol-
lar fee herself and signing the contract All 
correspondence on this subject should be 
addressed to Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, 55 N. 
West Temple Street. 
EMMA A EMPEY, 
Superintendent Relief Society NurseClasses.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The newly elected officers of the Inter-
national Council of Women are: President,
Countess of Aberdeen; first vice president
Frau Maria Stritt of Dresden; second vice-
president, Mme. Jewel Siegfried of Paris;
third vice-president, Frau Retzius of Stock-
holm; treasurer, Mrs. William Sanford
of Toronto; corresponding secretary, Miss
Gordon of Scotland; recording secretary,
Miss Kramer of Holland. It is announced
that the next Quinquennial International
Council will be held in Toronto, Canada.

	Mme. Emma Calve has founded a sani-
tarium at Cabrieres, France, where sixty
young girls who need fresh air and medical
attendance will be received every summer,
all expenses being borne by the singer.

	A little pamphlet entitled “The Left
Wing” has just appeared, full of useful and
impartial information about the various
branches of the woman movement in Ger-
many:


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS. Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel 
space one time $2.50; per month. $3.00. A liberal dis-
unt to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple 
Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every 
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
second-class matter.

	SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH, JUNE, 1904


[Column 1]
THIRTY-THIRD VOLUME.
	This number of the paper opens the 
thirty-third year of the WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT, and one cannot help feeling there is 
some prestige attached to a woman’s paper
that has stood so long for the best princi-
ples of right and righteousness. For the 
work of women along all lines that are 
really uplifting, no one can deny, if careful
investigation is made of what the paper ad-
vocates, that this is true.
	The women correspondents who contrib-
ed largely and often to its contents in the 
earlier volumes have many of them passed 
behind the veil, and some have perhaps 
grown weary of writing. In mentioning
the names who did much to make a success 
of the undertaking we must of course pay
the first tribute to Louisa L. Greene Rich-
ards (then Miss Greene) the first editor;
she is still prominent in literary work,
but more for the children in the Juvenile 
Instructor, and seems especially adapted to 
that line of work, which so few men, or 
women are qualified for.
	Our beloved poet, Eliza R. Snow, comes
next in this case How we all miss her 
brave, inspiring words! We can never be 
too grateful for her help in literary and or-
ganized work for women.
	Hannah T. King, every one will recall 
her prose as well as poetry. Mary Ellen
Kimball, who wrote such sweet and humble
testimonies of the Gospel and the Book of 
Mormon. Wilmirth East, who stood so 
strongly for woman’s enfranchisement, and 
Mary Ann Pratt, who reasoned log-
ically on principles of the Gospel, and our 
own Emily H. Woodmansee, who gave us 
so much real, sound doctrine in her origin-
al poems, and who still lives, though we
see and hear very little of her through the 
EXPONENT; now and then she wakes up to 
the occasion.
	Augusta J. Crocheron, who has written
volumes of poetry and prose. We are often
asked, “What has become of her?’’ She
too must have grown weary, though she 
has done such good work in the past and 
so much of it.
	There was one called "Hope," she is 
still living somewhere in Mexico, laboring 
hard in the Gospel field, we are told. She 
must be still in the prime of life and some-
time we may hear from her again.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp occasionally contri-
butes yet, and we are always glad to hear
from her, and Lydia D. Alder has done

[Column 2]
much towards helping the paper along—
she is now in Germany and might give us
some spicy "write ups" of the Quinquen-
nial.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt, who was once on 
our list of contributors, seems to have for-
gotten all about it in her busy life for hu-
manity.
	Annie Wells Cannon, with her large
family of little folks and many household
cares, finds time to give an occasional story 
or poem at Christmas time, and now that 
she is doing double duty in other ways 
with the Pioneer Stake of Zion, we can
hardly expect very much from her, al-
though the more one does the greater ca-
pacity one has for doing
	We are all busy women in this Church,
but we must necessarily do a great deal of 
thinking, and ought to give expression to 
the best thoughts we have for the benefit of
others who need it, or who may profit by it 
in days to come, for what “is written re-
mains,” and is on record.
	The WOMAN'S EXPONENT is preserved,
and it is precious to those who have an inter-
est in woman's work. President Young was 
anxious the sisters should not only take
the paper, but take care of it, for ‘it would
be,” he said, the “record of their lives and
work,’’.and this is true, and all who ex-
amine its pages know it contains much
useful information on many subjects and 
would help the young mothers in their 
homes, if they would read it with under-
standing hearts. It certainly ought not to
lack for support to make it more regular 
and better worthy of the appreciation it de-
serves; if the sisters could only realize its 
importance they would not neglect to speak
of it in their meetings, and urge its main-
tenance.


[Column 1]
A DECADE OF SERVICE.
	Everybody knows the name of Lucy
Stone; throughout the length and breadth
of this land, and even lands afar off, her
name has become a household word be-
cause of her great work for woman and
for humanity. Her daughter, Miss Alice
Stone Blackwell, has followed in her moth-
er’s footsteps and with the larger oppor-
tunity afforded woman now a-days, may
even accomplish greater things.
	At Fanueil Hall, Boston, on May 30, a
banquet was given by the Armenians in
honor of Miss Blackwell, because of the
loving service she had rendered to that
oppressed people for ten years. She was
presented on this occasion with a beauti-
ful life-sized portrait of herself, painted
by an Armenian artist. The portrait was
covered with American and Armenian
flags, and placed in the center of the dec
orated platform of the hall. About two
hundred Armenians and a sprinkling of
Americans sat down to an excellent supper
enlivened by music.” Archbishop Hovsef
Seradjian gave the “grace” at table. Two
little Armenian children unveiled the por-
trait after the banquet, and the audience
applauded warmly. The Archbishop read
a document in Armenian which was trans-
lated by Rev. Dr. Theodore Isaac, and set
forth in glowing terms the indefatigable
labors and sympathy of Miss Blackwell
during the days of dire suffering and afflic-
tion that came upon that persecuted race.
It is quite impossible to tell what this
young woman has done, but in the study
of their literature she has enriched her

[Column 2]
own fertile mind and brain and enlightened
the world on their question. After learn-
ing the language Miss Blackwell translated
into English verse sixty Armenian poems.
These represent a variety of authors, and
she has receiv d many congratulatory
news notices from the best papers in the
United States. Frances Willard said: “These
poems reveal as by a search-light the deep-
est qualities of the Armenian character.
They show forth an ingrained heroism and
an ardent aspiration worthy of the martyr
people of this so-called Christian century.
No generous man or woman can read them
without instinctively desiring to send help
to a people capable of thoughts so lofty
and sentiments so tender.”
	It was a fitting time to choose for such a
commemoration—and Miss Blackwell in
her response to the address made in the
presentation said: “Decoration Day which
we are keeping all over the country, began
forty years ago in memory and sorrow over
the dead  *  *  *  We meet today under
sorrowful circumstances We had all our
hearts wrung yesterday by reading of the
slaughter of the inhabitants of forty-three
Armenian villages. It does not seem like
a time for feasting or rejoicing, but rather
for all of us to be sad.” *   *
	The toastmaster of the occasion in intro-
ducing the next speaker, said: We have
no king in this country, but we have a
queen and she is with us tonight—Mrs.
Julia Ward Howe”
	Mrs. Howe, in opening her address, said:
“I am almost as much overpowered as Miss
Blackwell, who said that she might have to
hide under the table. If I were young and
active, I think I shouid myself execute
such a manoeuvre.”
	Mrs. Howe was followed by Mrs. Mary A.
Livermore, who had driven from Melrose,
eight miles in the rain to be present.
	Mrs. Howe is eighty-five years of age,
Mrs. Livermore eighty-four. Both these
women had done very much for the Ar-
menian cause and related many experi-
ences.
	The other speakers were Isabel C Bar-
rows, William Loyd Garrison, Henry B.
Blackwell and Prof. Wm G. Ward. Prof.
Ward spoke of the American battleships
then in the Mediterranean and urged that
petitions be sent to Secretary John Hay,
asking him to have these ships used to
overcome the Sultan and in connection
with other powers to put an end to the Ar-
menian atrocities.”
	The entire proceedings were full of inter-
est, music, poetry and song, all significant
of gratitude
	A flashlight photograph was taken at 
the table—the Archbishop at the head,
Mrs. Howe next, Mrs. Livermore close by.
The Archbishop and Dr. Isaac, in the dark,
flowing robes of the Armenian clergy, with
“ecclesiastical jewels on their breasts,”
but were still more adorned by their mag-
nificient beards worn after the fashion of
the Eastern lands.


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.
	The birthday anniversary of the great
leader, pioneer and president. Brigham 
Young, which occurs June first, was ob-
served this year with an immense gathering 
of relatives and friends in the G anite Stake
house. This celebrated man was born June 
1, 1801, and would therefore have been one 
hundred and three years old were he living.


The gathering in his honor this year was 
quite as elaborate as on any former occasion,
and the spirit that prevailed throughout all
the exercises was calculated,to impress those 
who participated with the lofty character 
and magnanimity of the man to whom Utah
owes so much in her settlement, develop-
ment and enterprise.
	The tables were prepared for between 
four and five hundred guests and beautifully
decorated with flowers,and filled with the best 
the earth affords to tempt the appetite and 
add to the social enjoyment of the occasion.
	At the head of the first table the First 
Presidency af the Church were seated, Pres-
idents Joseph F Smith, John R. Winder
and Anthon H. Lund, Apostles F. M. Ly-
man and Rudger Clawson and ladies, with 
the nearest representatives of the famous 
Young family, Dr. Seymour B. Young and 
several sons of President Young, also his 
eminent graudson, Richard W. Young, and
many members of the illustrious family, 
Sisters Naamah Twiss, Lucy B., Eliza B.,
and Amelia F. Young surviving wives of 
President Brigham Young. It is quite im-
possible to mention all those who are en-
titled to place in the roll of honor, as there 
were so many whose names are familiar and 
dear to the people,that it is quite impossible 
to do justice to so large a subject in such 
limited space.
	President Joseph F. Smith paid a glow-
ing tribute to the memory of Brother Young
as did also his counselors, and Elder R. W.
Young responded happily, after which the 
guests rose and the clearing up began ready 
for the program and evening entertainment.
There was excellent music, a variety of 
songs and recitations, and later on dancing,
all of which was most enjoyable. Every-
thing passed off pleasantly and it was cer-
tainly one of the most satisfactory anniver-
saries that has been celebrated, as the house
itself is well adapted to large gatherings.
There are always some vacancies each year
and this time Apostle Brigham Young was 
missing.
	"To every man upon the earth.
	Death cometh soon or late."
	Others were missing, too, daughters and 
grandchildren and so each year some go 
and others are added to the role.
	The name and memory of Brigham 
Young can never die, for his works praise 
him throughout these mountain vales.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A HAPPY BIRTHDAY PARTY.
	The seventy fifth anniversary of the 
birthday of Sister Hannah C. Wells was 
celebrated at the residence of her son, Elder 
Junius F. Wells,on Thursday, June 9,with
a party of her old friends. The handsome 
parlors and hall were beautfully decorated 
with lovely flowers and vines, and the wel-
come extended by Mrs Junius F. Wells 
and members of the family was most gen-
uine and warm hearted. The meeting of 
friends of other days, many of whom had 
known Sister Wells in her girlhood, was a
very pleasant feature of the occasion. Rem-
iniscences and incidents of travel and famil-
iar intercourse were exceedingly interesting,
and conversation flowed free and easy.
	A sumptuous repast was served on small 
tables of three and four, and the company 
were delightfully waited upon by the
nieces and granddaughters of the honored 
guest of the day. Among the guests were
Presidents Joseph F. Smith, John R. Win-


der and Anthon H. Lund, Apostle F. M.
Lyman and Hon. W. W Riter.
	Sisters over eighty years of age were 
Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith and Rachel R.
Grant; besides these were many other vet-
eran sisters—Sisters Lucy W. and Amanda
G. Kimball, Sisters Margaret P , Eliza B. 
and Amelia F. Young, Sisters Margaret Y.
Taylor and Catherine C. Young and many
more.
	After the tables were removed there were
some informal exercises, a poem composed 
and read by Mrs. E B Wells in honor of the 
birthday of Mrs. Hannah C. Wells; a brief 
sketch of her life and testimony of the Gos-
pel, prepared and read by her son Junius;
after which congratulatory remarks were 
made by Presidents Joseph F. Smith, J. R.
Winder, A. H. Lund, Apostle F.M Lyman,
and Hon. W. W. Riter, also by Sisters B.
W. Smith, Lucy W. Kimball and others;
to these expressions of love and esteem
Sister Wells responded tactfully and gra-
ciously, and the entire affair was very hap-
py and enjoyable. Much praise is due to 
the able management of the host and host 
ess, who gave such pleasure to the veteran
mother in Israel as well as to her dear 
friends and associates.
	Sister Wells was the recipient of a num-
ber of valuable gifts, and these in them-
selves were but trifles compared to the love
and friendship of a lifetime The partings 
from each other at such times seems all too
soon, and many were the kind wishes and 
happy returns of the day given at the de-
parture of the guests wh n the hour for 
leave-taking arrived


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		UINTAH STAKE.

	The Relief Society conference of the
Uintah stake was held March 4, 1904,
President Sarah Pope presiding After the 
usual exercises and reading of minutes, etc,
President Pope made a few remarks, urg-
ing the sisters to be more regular in attend-
ing the conference to obtain instruction in 
reference to the duties in their own Society 
work
	Elder Jamas Hacking asked the Lord to
bless the sisters, that they might realize 
their true position on the ear[-]h.
	Reports were given by the respective 
presidents of Maeser and Glines wards and 
the morning meeting adjourn[-]d until 2 p m.
Benediction by President Sarah Pope.
	Afternoon session was opened by singing,
and prayer was offered by Patriarch Merk-
ley. After singing and reading of minutes
the general and local officers of the society, 
wero presented and the statistical and fin-
ancial reports of the stake w[-]re read.
Reports of Jenson, Naples, Dry Fork and 
Vernal were made by the presidents.
	President Samuel R. Bennion, of the
Uintah stake, addressed the sisters. He was 
pleased to hear the sisters had so much 
wheat and real estate, and gave them some 
good instruction in regard to their wheat 
	Patriarch Merkley also spoke of the good 
reports and of unity, and that we should 
be the happiest people on the earth.
	Counselor A K. Bartlett warned the sis-
ters against evil speaking and passing
judgment on matters with which they had
no concern, but spend their time studying 
the principles of the Gospel, and be dili-
gent in their duties at home and in the
society.

[Column 2]
	Sister Abigail Oaks wondered how the 
sisters could afford to miss these meetings,
thought we should strive to say something 
good of every one. Sister Nancy S. Colton
spoke of the mother’s work; felt it was a 
fine thing to help mothers in raising their 
children. President Pope was pleased with
the larger attendance in the afternoon, but
knew that if all the sisters attended, the 
house would be full. She made a few clos-
ing remarks and adjourned the conference 
for six months; singing, benediction by 
Counselor Elthurah Collett.
	ADDIE LONGHURST, Secretary.
		SAN JUAN STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the San
Juan stake was held in the Relief Society
hali, Bluff ward, May 7, 1904, President
Mary N. Jones presiding. After singing,
prayer was offered by Sister Adelia Lyman,
followed by singing, then President Jones 
addressed the meeting, reported her labors
in the stake; she had visited the several
wards and found them in good condition.
Six of the branches were reported by their
respective presidents; all were doing a good 
work.
	Counselor Priscilla Warner spoke of the 
Society as a grand organization, thought 
each one should perform every duty and 
requirement in the Gospel. desired to do 
her full duty as a stake officer and at all 
times.
	President Jones was pleased with the 
reports, and referred to the mothers’ work
and the good to be derived if the plan given 
in the WOMAN’S EXPONENT would be car-
rried out; wished all the sisters to have 
family worship in the home; related what 
Apostle Cowley had said and the promises 
he made, that if we would attend to this 
our children would not depart from the 
Gospel; felt we shouid be more diligent in 
caring for our little ones and guard our sons 
and daughters carefully, for if we neglect 
them it will only prove to our sorrow;
wished the sisters living in a grain district
to make special effort to store wheat. The
general and stake officers of the Relief So-
ciety were unanimously sustained. Singing,
benedic ion by Sister Josephine C. Wood.
		LUCINDA REDD, Secretary.
			EMERY STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Emery
stake was held at Price, May 24, 1904,
Counselor Maria Guyman presiding. After 
singing, prayer was offered by Sister Anna 
Miller. Ten of the Society branches of the 
stake were represented as in good condition,
temporally and spiritually.
	President Mary A. Sorenson welcomed all
to the conference, including the stake pres-
idency and visiting sisters from the General
Board—Sisters Elizabeth J. Stevenson and 
Carrie S. Thomas; she also read letters from
Sisters Pulsipher and Shipp in answer to 
presents sent them from the stake; reported
the condition of the Society work in the 
stake as flourishing both spiritually and fi-
nancially.
	Verbal reports were given by Sisters R.
E. Robertson of Orangeville, Henrietta Hill
of Wellington and Jane Williams of Emery,
which were encouraging. Lecture on 
Motherhood by Maria Christensen of Cleve-
land, which was an able effort and well 
rendered. Sister E. J. Stevenson spoke on 
the organization of the Relief Society by 
the Prophet Joseph Smith, also spoke upon


[Column 1]
the great mission of motherhood and re-
ferred to many other subjects—parliamen-
tary usage, pu[-]ctuality, the teachers, their
mission, temple work, storing grain. Morn-
ing session closed with prayer by Sister
Caroline Robb.
	Afternoon session. Prayer was offered
by Elder J. A. Williams; the general and
and local officers of the Society were sus-
tained. Verbal reports were given by Sis-
ters Tidwell of Sunnyside, Alice Whimpey
of Cleveland and Esther Grange of Hunt-
ington. Instrumental music by Jean
Leonard of Huntington. Sister Jane C.
Seeley of Mt. Pleasant spoke of seeing the
Prophet Joseph Smith and the persecutions
of the Saints. Sister Jane C. Peterson of
Castledale spoke of the nobility of mother
hood and that we should appreciate the
blessings we receive today. Song rendered
by Anna Miller, “Sunshine in your heart
today.”
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas spoke upon
mother’s work and education, she also re-
lated a story to illustrate her subject;
said the world was improving and so should
we.
	Sister Pauline Pace reported the Price
Society, its condition and work. Sister
E. Lamson announced the Primary con-
ference to convene May 25. President R.
G. Miiller congratu ated the Relief Society
on having the best teachers in the Church,
eulogized the labors of the stake officers,
and blessed them and the good work.
	President Mary A. Sorenson suggested
that the Relief Society have scales and
weigh the wheat that is loaned, that they
may have justice; announced an evening
meeting and that Sister Stevenson would
remain and talk to them. Benediction by
President John A. Pace.
	At the evening session Sisters King of
Ferron, Allen of Castledale and Hitchcock
of Clawson wards, reported.
	Sister Stevenson occupied the remainder
of the evening in speaking upon the Relief
Society, her acquaintance with the leaders
of the Church, and her recent visit to the
Indian school in Arizona and the Relief
Society in Mexico.
	MARY A. SORENSON, President.

MALAD STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Malad
stake was held at Riverside May 19, 1904.
President Julia A. Richards presiding. Af-
ter opening exercises, seven branches of
the Society were reported by their respec-
tive presidents; all said to be in excellent
condition. Statistical and financial report
of the Society for the year 1903 was read
and accepted, A few opening remarks
were made by President Richards welcom-
ing the visiting brethren and sisters and
expressing her pleasure in the great and
noble work of the organization.
	Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson, repre-
sentative from the General Board dwelt
upon a variety of subjects connected
with Woman’s Work, and mentioned the
recent purchase of the land of the Temple
site in Jackson County, Missouri.
	Stake Counselor Eliza V. Ward and Sec-
retary Josie S. Kennard bore testimony to
the importance of Relief Society work, and
felt to do their share in the same.
	Elder Jesse Dodge talked of the need of
storing grain in time of plenty; thought
the young mothers were the ones that
should be interested in the Mother’s Work.
Singing, benediction by L. H. Kennard,
Sen.

[Column 2]
	Afternoon session at 2 p. m., opened by
singing and prayer, roll call, minutes, etc.
Remainder of the wards represented as in
good working order. Treasurer Ella S.
Capener gave a talk on outlines of Mother’s
Work.
	Sister Stevenson spoke upon home build-
ing, the early days of the Saints here in the
valley, counseled the sisters to have houses
of their own in which to hold their meet-
ings, spoke also of union and the nurse
class, thought we should have plenty of
trained nurses for the sick in our midst,
gave much good advice on family affairs
and the mission of women in saving souls,
and talked on the Mother’s Work.
	Stake President M. H. Welling spoke on
Mother’s Work and home-building. Presi-
dent Richards made closing remarks and
thanked all that had assisted in making the
conference successful. Benediction by
Bishop William Price of Samaria
	After the close of the conference the
visitors were taken by Bishop Myron J.
Richards to visit the Garland sugar factory,
and all expressed themselves as having had
a good time.
JOSIE L. KENNARD, Sec’y.

MARICOPA STAKE.

	The R. S. conference of MaricopaStake was
held at Mesa, June 2, 1904, President Mabel
A. Hakes presiding. After the usual open-
ing exercises, President Hakes addressed
the sisters, giving them a hearty welcome 
and then called for reports from the several
wards in the stake. Three out of five were
doing fairly well, two had been discon-
tinued on account of deaths, and one the
president had moved away. Considerable
wheat had been stored, average attendance
was good, and the teachers as a rule were
active in their duties. They have a lecture
from the Doctrine and Covenants each tes-
timony meeting, and had begun to see the
good results of the same.
	All the stake had not been visited this
time on account of sickness.
	President Colins R. Hakes was pleased
to hear of the good that had been done to
so many poor and sick and those in need of
encouragement. Bishop J. M. Horne spoke
of care of the mind and the body in humili-
ty for the work to be performed. Several
sisters spoke on missionary work, Mother’s
Work and influence in the home circle.
	Afternoon session was better attended,
and after the usual exercises, the Spirit of
the Lord was made manifest, and many en-
couraging words were spoken. Primary
work, punctuality, the effect of children’s
prayers, Relief Society work a labor of
love, and when all are united much can be
accomplished. The Lamanite mission not
reported, was greatly regretted as that is
truly a labor of love. Conference adjourned
for three months, feeling we had truly a
spiritual feast.
ANNA E. FULLER, Sec’y.

LIBERTY STAKE.

	The first Relief Society conference of the
Liberty Stake convened June 4, 1904, at 2
p. m. in the Second ward meetinghouse,
President Annie S. Musser presiding.
meeting opened by singing “Our God we
raise to Thee,” prayer by President Eliza-
beth H. Paul of the Tenth ward. Singing
“Come, come ye Saints.”
	After a hearty welcome by President
Musser the presidents of the several wards

[Column 3]
in the stake gave verbal reports, showing
all to be in a flourishing condition.
	Counselor Mary E. Hodgson presented
the names of the general officers of the Re-
lief Society and of Liberty Stake; all were
unanimously sustained.
	Sister Maggie Hull rendered a solo
which was a pleasing feature of the meet-
ing.
	Counselor Zerviah Eardley gave some good
advice, thought it was God’s chosen daugh-
ters who worked in the Relief Society;
urged all to be humble and prayerful and
the Lord would bless them.
	Sister Louisiana Heppler, President of
the Primary Associations, Sevier Stake for
twenty-five years, spoke beautifully to the
sisters, felt the Spirit of the Lord was in
the meeting, encouraged the young moth-
ers to attend the Relief Society, thought
the Prophet Joseph blessed the sisters by
organizing this society. The speaker said
happiness comes from within and we could
make our homes, if only a cottage, the hap-
piest place on earth. Sister Maggie Hull
thought we were working in a good cause,
and we would receive great blessings. Sister
Emma Empey spoke at some length about
the Relief Society nurses class.
	President Musser was well pleased with the
conference and thanked all the sisters who
had helped to make it a success, adjourned
the conference for three months, after sing-
ing “O, say what is truth,” benediction by
Counselor Mary E. Hodgson.
LIZZIE ROBBINS, Asst. Sec’y.


6					WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	In memory of Sister Isabella Sharp Carlisle who
departed this life March 29, 1904, at her home in
Mill Creek. She was born in Mission, England,
December 21, 1832, embraced the Gospel in 1850,
and emigrated to Utah in 1851. She was the
mother of 13 children, six have preceded her to
the spirit world, she leaves five sons and two
daughters, all faithful Latter-day Saints.
	Sister Carlisle was one of the first to join the
Relief Society when it was organized in the ward
in 1868, and she was a great support to it financi-
ally.
	She was presiding teacher in the third district,
which position she held up to the time of her
death; she was faithful in the discharge of her
duties, and was one who could be depended upon;
her sympathy was always extended to the poor
and oppressed, and one on whom they could rely
for aid. She was first counselor in the Primary
Association, third district, twenty-one years; she
was a wise and efficient one to whom you could
always turn for counsel. She was honorably re- 
leased by Bishop James C. Hamilton. The writer
has been a friend and neighbor of Sister Carlisle
since the year 1857, and in all the changing scenes
of life has always found her true and faithful, do-
ing her utmost for the good of the Society in
which she was well loved and respected. Fare-
well, dear sister, a crown of glory awaits you pre-
pared for the righteous.
	The funeral services were held in the Mill Creek
Ward house, where a large concourse of friends
met to pay their last respects to their co-laborer in
the work of the Lord, Bishop Hamilton presiding.
The speakers paid a high tribute to her exemplary
life and conduct. The singing was very impres-
sive and sweet, the decorations of the house, the
floral emblems all were in perfect harmony; many
sorrowing relatives and friends followed the re-
mains to the Mill Creek cemetery.

	It is our sad duty to record the death of our dear
and gifted Sister Clara E. S. Carlisle, daughter of
John F. and Elizabeth Snedaker and beloved wife
of Francis D. Carlisle. She was born in Mill
Creek ward October 1, 1870, and departed this life
May 4, 1904 She leaves a husband, three children,
mother, brothers, sisters and a host of friends to
mourn her loss. Sister Clara had been afflicted
with rheumatism for several years but no one
thought the end was so near. She had borne her


trials with so much fortitude and patience. She
lived an exemplary life, devoted to home and to 
the work of the Lord. 
	She was a graduate of the University, Salt Lake
City, and was a successful school teacher. She
was secretary in the Sabbath school, also presi-
dent of the Y. L. Association of the ward for a
number of years. Afterward she was called to act
as aid in the Y. L Association of the Salt Lake
Stake which position she held until sickness
caused her to resign. She was appointed to the
office of treasurer in the Relief Society. October
1, 1901, and held the office at the time of her
death. In all of  these duties she was faithful
and true to her duty, nothing we can say will
enhance her character for she was known as a
pure and noble woman, and she has gone to re-
ceive her reward.
	Funeral services were held in the Mill Creek
ward house, Bishop Hamilton presiding The
speakers paid a high tribute to her worth as a true
Latter-day Saint, consoling remarks were made
to the bereaved husband, who feels the loss very
keenly, being away from home at the time of her
death, also to the relatives and friends.
	The singing was beautifully impressive, con-
ducted by Brother Cornwall. The decorations
were all in perfect harmony, the floral offerings all
spoke of the love and respect of the dear departed
one. There was a large concourse of friends pres-
ent and many followed the remains to the ceme-
tary where Sister Clara was laid away to await
the resurrection of the righteous.
			MARY B. HAMILTON, Prest.,
			FRANCES H. HANSON, Sec’y.

	Died at Hatch, Bannock County, Idaho, May
16, 1904, Sister Caroline Detton, Counselor in our
Relief Society. Sister Detton was the daughter
of Michel Anderson and Anna M. Nielson. She
was born at Augusta, Denmark, February 23,
1852, and came to Utah in 1870,—was baptized Oc-
tober 16, 1870. Was married to John Detton July
31, 1871. She was aged 52 years, 2 months and 23
days. She leaves besides her husband four sons
and eight daughters, a fifth son having died in
infancy many years ago. Her life was well
worthy of emulation, as she was a woman always
wise and discreet and tried to do all in her power
to forward the Latter-day work. She was a dutiful
wife, a kind and affectionate mother and a true
friend.

		RELOLUTIONS OF RE

	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call from our midst our worthy and beloved sister
and co-laborer, Caroline Detton, therefore be it
	Resolved, That we strive to emulate her devo-
tion to her home, her purity and honesty of pur-
pose, and her faith in the Gospel of Jesus Christ.
	Resolved, That we extend our heartfelt sympa-
thy to the stricken husband and family, and sin-
cerely hope our Heavenly Father will send the
comforting influence of the Holy Spirit to heal
the wounded spirits of those who are called to
mourn.
	Resolved, That a coppy of these resolutions be
sent to THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT and a copy of
them be sent to her family.
				CHRISTINA HIGGINSON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


ITEMS FROM BERLIN.
	We have published some extracts from
Mrs. Horne’s letter in her travels toward
Berlin and wish we could give more par-
ticulars of the congress than the election of
officers but at this writing it is all we have
except from a postal dated June 15. Mrs.
Horne states she is to speak on the 17th,
and 18th in the Congress and she mentions
Mrs. Emily S. Richards and Mrs. Ida S.
Dusenberry as having reached there.
	Letters from Charlotte Perkins Gilman
and Rev. Anna H. Shaw in the Boston
Woman’s Journal contain some spicy para-
graphs and we quote here concerning
“Susan B.” Mrs. Gilman says in her let-
ter from the steamer going over, “Our
grand old woman has been on deck every
day of the trip, has not missed a meal, and
her sister Mary Anthony is with her in vig-
or and cheerfulness.”
	Miss Shaw writing from Berlin says:
“You will realize how well Miss Anthony


is when I tell you that at Bremen the day
after we landed she was able to take a long
drive, and attend a reception given by the
Woman’s Council and make an address.
The following day she came to Berlin, set-
tled in her hotel and on the folowing morn-
ing was up early for the opening of the
Suffrage Conference. She presided all the
time except Friday afternoon. On Satur-
day she called the meeting to order at 9 a.
m. and presided with only a lunch intermis-
sion till 5.30 p. m., then took a drive for
two hours, and attended the reception from
8.30 to 11 p. m. and said she was not
tired.


The meeting of the International Coun-
cil of Women closed on the afternoon of
June 18 with an enormous crowd.
	“The Philharmonic Hall was overfilled,
and a large overflow meeting was held in
an adjacent hall, where the speeches made
in the Philharmonic Hall were repeated.
The leading speaker in the main hall was
Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman, who dis-
cussed Prof. Lester F. Ward’s theory of the
biological origin of sex. Mrs. Gilman
turned the theory to account, discussing in
brilliant way the relations between the
sexes of to-day, claiming that society will
not be perfect till women participate in all
human interests equally with men. Helene
Lange discussed the ultimate aims of the
woman movement. Lady Aberdeen, pres-
ident of the International Council, cordially
thanked the German organizers for the
splendid success of the congress. Frau
Marie Stritt, of Dresden, president of the
German league, declared the congress ad-
journed, amid a scene of great enthusiasm.
The American delegates, as the German
attendants point out, made a general im-
pression, owing to the superiority of their
oratory, clear concise statements and dis-
tinct, deliberate speaking. Mrs. Carrie
Chapman Catt, the Rev. Anna H. Shaw,
and Mrs. Gilman developed into great fav-
orites with the audiences, and Miss Susan
B. Anthony received an ovation whenever
she interjected the fewest simple remarks,
often writing autographs in the intervals
for her German admirers. On the evening
of June 18 the municipality gave the dele-
gates a great farewell reception at the City
Hall.”


“The Empress of Germany has won the
hearts of the American delegates to the
women’s congress. She glanced along the
row of women, and noticing the venerable
form of Susan B. Anthony, she sent one of
her maids of honor for a chair and begged
her to be seated. Miss Anthony declined
for a time, and yielded ouly to the insist-
ence of the Empress, who herself remained
standing. As the Empress walked along
the line, she was made acquainted with the
name and country of each delegate, and
then, whether English, French, Italian or
Dutch, she, with surprising versatility, ad-
dressed each delegate in her own language,
each spoken with marked purity of accent
and without the least hesitation. Her
guests were amazed. To most of them she
spoke only a word or two, but when she
reached Miss Anthony, she said: “What a
long journey you have taken! How do
you like Berlin? I know your long life’s
work, and your position in the Council of


Women.’ Miss Anthony replied: ‘I hope
your husband, the Emperor, will vie with
the United States in endeavoring to place
German women on an equality with men,
and that he will devote his attention to this
as well as to augmenting the commercial
greatness of his country.’ The Empress
answered: ‘Men are very slow to compre-
hend the equality of women with them-
selves.’ Miss Anthony then told the Em-
press about her last visit to Berlin, when
she met the Empress Frederick. As the
Empress went along the line, she showed
that she knew all about the women’s move-
ment in each country, with the names of
the leaders and all about them. Having
gone down the line, the Empress retraced
her steps, and on reaching Miss Anthony
again, said: ‘You are my honored guest
on this occasion, dear Miss Anthony,’
Then, again shaking hands with Miss
Anthony, and bowing to her guests, she
withdrew. A great mass meeting in favor
of woman suffrage was held in Philhar-
monic Hall on the evening of June 17.
Miss Susan B. Anthony, Mrs. Carrie Chap-
man Catt, and the Rev. Anna Shaw spoke
for the United States.”


THE BERLIN MEETINGS.
	Mrs. Ida H. Harper is contributing to a
number of American papers a series of
lively articles on the Quinquennial meet-
ing of the Women’s International Council,
at Berlin. She says in part:

	“A Berlin! A Berlin! was the warlike cry
of Napoleon. And a Berlin, a Berlin, has
been the rallying cry of an army of women
as, from the four corners of the earth, they
have journeyed to the seat of the German
Empire. Under the white banner of peace
those of Germany and France clasp friendly
hands. Australia and New Zealand bring
greetings to Austria and Bulgaria; the Ital-
ian peninsula salutes the Scandinavian;
South America presents her compliments to
Great Britain, and the United States beams
approvingly on all. The men of our country
would feel very proud of their women folks
if they could see the attention shown them
at these great international meetings. “If
only we had the liberty you possess,” the
other women say; “if only our men would
let us show what we are capable of doing
and being!” and then invariably they end
with the inquiry, “But why is it that you
have not the suffrage, when you have
everything else?”
	The American Church was filled to over-
flowing on the Sunday before the opening
of the meetings, and when Rev. Anna
Howard Shaw arose to offer prayer, the au-
dience resembled a field of wheat stirred by
a breeze, as it leaned forward to see a wo-
man preacher. It seemed most fitting that
the first woman who ever entered a pulpit
in Germany should be Susan B. Anthony,
for among the earliest demands made by
Mrs. Stanton and herself in 1852 was one
that women should be permitted to enter
the ministry and have part in all church
councils. It was a touching spectacle—this
grand old apostle of freedom, in her eighty-
fifth year, as with a tone of triumph, in her
voice she contrasted the position of women
now and half a century ago. The inspiring
address of Mrs Carrie Chapman Catt, which
followed, brought the audience so near to
applause that Miss Shaw came quickly for-


[Column 1]
ward to pronounce the benediction and re-
quest that they observe reverently the day
and place. Rev. Dr. Dickie looked proud
and pleased as he offered his arm to Miss
Anthony, literally to rescue her, as the en-
tire congregation of women pressed forward
and fairly took her in their embrace.
	The business sessions of the Council are
held in the beautiful “House of the Art-
ists,” where their picture exhibits are given,
and, like the other halls here, rich in paint-
ings, stained glass, carving and statuary.
If the confusion of tongues does not drive
the delegates to drink, they certainly will
be entitled to a medal from the W. C. T. U.
The Council officially recognizes three lan-
guages, English, German and French, but
all previous meetings have been conducted
in English. Here, however, the other two
prevail, but even these are foreign to the
members, from Holland, Finland, Scandi-
navia, and various other countries. While
most of their educated women speak Eng
lish to some degree, and some of the Eng-
lish women understand French and Ger-
man, only a few can follow involved resolu-
tions, amendments and parliamentary tan-
gles. All the proceedings, speeches, etc,
at the business sessions, therefore, have to
be repeated by the interpreters in the three
languages, and when the discussion be-
comes animated and the temper slightly
heated, the Tower of Babel by comparison
seems a very simple proposition. Self-con-
trol and friendliness of sp[-]rit are manifested
to a degree which is really remarkable un-
der the circumstances, but the delegates are
pretty limp by the end of each session.
	At the charming social entertainments
which have been arranged we find the same
exasperating obstacle, and frequently, upon
meeting some one whom we have long
wished to know, we can only press her
hand, look eloquently in her eyes, and pass
on feeling like an idiot. Usually, however,
we Americans are like the husband and
wife who always effected a peaceful com-
promise by doing exactly as the husband
wished. We compromise the difference in
language by carrying on the conversation
in English; but still there are a number of
our women from the United States who
converse fluently in German and French.
We are proud of our international president,
Mrs. Sewall, who apparently speaks and
understands the three languages with equal
ease. When the audience were wildly ap-
plauding her address, our American delega-
tion thought to make our appreciation espe-
cially manifest by shouting “Hoch! Hoch!”
at the top of our voices, but we pronounced
it “Hock,” and learned afterwards that it
should have been “Ho,” so we shall ap-
plaud in English hereafter.
	As we sat on the platform and looked
down into the hundreds of faces, we asked
Miss Shaw if she could see much difference
between this and an American audience.
“Yes,” she answered, here they have en-
thusiasm.” And so they have, responding
instantly to a point, and rising to their feet
with cries of approval in a way that is most
inspiring to a speaker. Strange to say, the
appearance of the audience is not so differ-
ent from one in the United States as it

[Column 2]
seemed in London. Das Palast Hotel is in
a busy centre, with a park in front, and at
night one might imagine himself looking
out of the windows of the Fifth Avenue
Hotel in New York.
	The hospitality, courtesy and thoughtful-
ness of the Berlin women to the Council
delegates and speakers can hardly be ex-
pressed. It is overflowing, boundless, un-
ceasing. Nothing has been overlooked
which could contribute to our comfort and
convenience. Every hour not required for
council meetings is filled with the most de-
lightful social affairs, always offering the
most elaborate refreshments. What must
foreigners think when they are invited to a
“tea” or reception in the United States and
regaled with a wafer or a tiny cup of choco-
late?
	The cards for the opening reception given
by the German Council in Prince Albert’s
Hotel said nine o’clock, so some of us
dined leisurely, took our time to make an
evening toilette, and presented ourselves
about eleven. Our feeling may be imagined
when we were ushered into a great banquet
hall, the tables still weighted with the re-
mains of an elaborate feast, the toasts all
finished and the receiving party bidding
adieu to the guests. Since then we have
driven up to the door “when the clock was
striking the hour”
	The lovers of beautiful architecture and
exquisite decorations were in rapture over
the house of Frau Geheimen Baurath Kay-
ser, whose husband is one of the leading
architects in Berlin. In his own home he
has expressed his choicest ideas, and all
parts of Europe have contributed to its
unique furnishings. It was placed at the
disposal of Frau Marie Stritt, of Dresden,
president of the German Council, for her
reception to the delegates. Mrs. Sewall
has had three functions, an opening “cof-
fee,” a handsome luncheon of a hundred
covers, and a large reception in honor of
the new offi[-]ial board, all in the banquet room
of Das Palast Hotel.
	The breakfast given by the Berlin Com-
mittee of Arrangements, whose chairman
is Frau Hedwig Heyl, daughter of the
founder of the North German Lloyd Steam-
ship Company, a society leader and presi-
dent of various clubs and societies, has been
one of the most notable events The club-
house, in one of the lovely parks on the
shores of the river Spree, was an ideal
place, and every arrangement was perfect,

[Column 3]
music, flowers, toasts, souvenirs, not a de-
tail lacking, even the bonbons bearing an
excellent picture of Miss Anthony.
	The week’s social festivities closed fit-
tingly with the reception of Ambassador
and Mrs. Tower to the American delegates.
They reside in a magnificent palace in an
aristocratic part of the city, and it is said
his entire salary for the year lacks $500 of
paying his annual rent. Lovers of demo-
cratic simplicity may hold that it is not neces-
sary for him to live in so sumptuous a man-
ner, but they do not comprehend how essen-
tial this is in a foreign country if the Ameri-
can Embassy is to maintain its prestige
with those of other nations. Mr. Tower is
the only Ambassador from the United
States who ever has been able to entertain
at dinner the Emperor of Germany, as the
etiquette of the court permits him to enter
only homes maintained at a certain stand-
ard.
	Most of us have been pleased to see To-
ronto selected as the place for the next
Quinquennial meeting of the Council.
	The presidency of Mrs Sewall has been
without a parallel in the history of organi-
zations. She founded the Council with
nine affiliated branches, or National Aux-
iliaries. She leaves it with a membership
of twenty National Councils, and with vice-
presidents in fifteen other countries doing
the preliminary work toward organization.
The Council is partly supported by patrons
who pay $100. and of the thirty-five of
these Mrs. Sewall, or those very close to
her, have secured thirty-three. The amount
of labor she has done, the thousands of
letters she has written, are beyond compu-
tation. The present Council has been one
of the greatest triumphs ever recorded for
organized womanhood, and Mrs. Sewall’s
ability as a presiding officer is unsur-
passed.”						Ex.


8	WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
OBSTETRICS

Dr. Maggie C. Roberts
Will commence her next class in Obstet-
rics on Monday, October 10, 1904. This
class will also have the advantage of at-
tending the RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE
CLASS taught by Dr. Roberts. For fur-
ther information, communicate with Dr.
Roberts, 79 C Street. Telephone 2002.
________________________________

R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money. TRY US

[Column 2]
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
Will open a class in Nursing and Ob-
stetrics on Monday, Oct. 9, 1904, at
her home, 713 Second Street, Salt Lake
City. Those desiring to attend will
please communicate personally or by
letter.
_____________________________
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.		
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
No I Main Street.
___________________________________
CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
				AND NURSING.

	Dr. Romania B. Pratt will commence her
class in Midwifery and Nursing April 7, 1904.
	One student free. Write for particulars.
	This class recommended by the General
Board of the Relief Society.


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
