[Vol8 | January 1921 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for February]

Guide Lessons for February. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First WEEK IN FEBRUARY. SALVATION FOR THE LIVING AND THE DEAD. Two sets of lessons are herein given so that class leaders will have ample time for preparation. PERSONALITY OF GOD. The second startling revelation received by the Proplici Joseph Smith in the grove, one hundred years ago, was that God, our Father, is a person, distinct and separated in actual bodily form from his Son, Jesus the Christ. Both stood before the rapt gaze of the youthful seer and both spoke to him. No matter what persecution followed, the prophet maintained the simple testimony of this vision until his death, giving his life to establish its truth. The Christian world, generally speaking, believed and still believes in a God who is invisible and impersonal. According to the old sectarian phraseology he is 'a body without parts and passions, who sits upon the top of a topless throne and whose center is everywhere and circumerence nowhere." A famous modern Episcopalian preacher when asked for a definition of God is reported to have answered that God is a principle; again pressed to define what he meant by a principle, he replied that "two and two make four—that is a principle." Let us examine some of the printed creeds of the modern world, old and new, on this point. The ancient Hebrews, according to a very modern authority believed: "The unique characteristic of the God of the ancient Hebrews is his intense personality." Page 83 of Religions of the Past and Present. "This characteristic of personality appears peculiarly in his relation to his people. He is first of all a tribal God, of that I have no question. His full name is "Yahwe of Hosts, the God of Israel." This particularism, which offends our modern cosmopolitanism, is an expression of his essential personality. It is a limitation, we say, on the pure idea of God, but a limitation which is necessary to the idea of the personal. For it is of the essence of personality that it is independent of other personalities, independent and self-existent, and can only come into contact with other persons through acts of the will and of desire, It is a mistake to try to push the loftiest of the prophets to a more abstract idea of his person. Amos, who states Yahwe's control of the world as strongly as any, and perhaps more clearly, (e. G., cc. 1-2; 9:7) nevertheless holds to the divine particularism. Page 84 of Religions of the Past and Present. The modern Jew, at least the American Jew, seems in many
GUIDE LESSONS. — 47 not deny that truth and be found blameless before high heaven. As the Christians accept the Old and New Testaments as their sole revelation, authority and guide to belief and creed, it should be possible for them to successfully explain the passages from the Bible quoted in the "Mormon" Compendium, on pages 184 to 193; for instance: Genesis: 1:25-27, "man created in the image of God;" 3:9-10, "Adam heard the voice of the Lord;" 4:6, "the Lord said unto Cain." 14; 5:1-2, "Lord created man, male and female, in his own likeness;" 13:21, "God talked with Noah." Also 7:1-4; 9:8; 11:5, "the Lord came down to see the city and the tower;" 12:7, "the Lord appeared to Abraham." 17:22; 18, "the Lord ate and talked with Abraham;" 28: 13, "the Lord stood above the ladder -Jacob saw;" 32:30, "Jacob saw God face to face." 35:13. Exodus: 3:6, "Moses was afraid to look on God;" 31:18, "the tables of testimony, written with the finger of God;" 33:11, "the Lord talked with Moses as one man speaks with a friend a 23, "thou shalt see my back parts, but not my face." Numbers: 12:8, "with him will I speak, mouth to mouth." Zechariah: 14:4, "and his feet shall stand upon the Mount of Olives." Revelation: 1:14, "his head and his hair like wool, and his eyes like fire." Eyery truth, fact and tradition of religion points to the dual personality of the Father and the Son. The Jews alone have some justification in their monotheistic attitude. To them Yaweh is their one and only God. Yet even they have now spiritualized him. The Latter-day Saints alone possess the whole truth on this vital principle of faith. The final proof of the personality of God is the appearance of both the Father and the Son to the prophet in the grove at Palmyra. Thousands have received the testimony of this vision as testified to by the prophet. Who can disprove it? QUESTIONS. 1. What is the idea of the Christian world about our heavenly Father? 2. Quote the first of the 39 Articles of Faith. 3. What authority have we for belief in a personal God? 4. Read the article on the true and living God from the Compendium. 5. What can you say of the differences in belief between our Church and Christian churches generally? 6. What church did your parents come out of? 7. What is your idea of the personality of God, the ['ather, and his Son, Jesus Christ? 8. How did you obtain that idea or testimony?