[Vol8 | January 1921 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for March]
Guide  Lessons  for  March. 
LESSON  I 
Theology  and  Testimony. 
First  Week  in  March 
SALVATION  FOR  THE  LIVING  AND  THE  DEAD 
AUTHORITY 
The  foundation  of  religion  here,  and  hereafter,  is  divine 
authority;  that  is,  the  legitimate  authority  to  teach,  to  preach 
and  to  administer  in  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel.  And  what  is 
true  on  this  earth,  in  regard  to  authority,  is  just  as  true  of 
life  in  any  other  sphere,  world,  or  universe.  A  church  may 
possess  many  of  the  forms  and  ceremonies,  the  principles  and 
sacraments  of  the  gospel,  but  if  that  church,  either  here  or  here- 
after, lacks  the  authority  which  comes  only  from  our  Father,  then 
it  is  a  house  founded  on  the  sand,  as  the  Savior  himself  said. 
This  lesson  does  not  deal  with  the  necessity  of  a  church  organ- 
ization ;  that  comes  later.  We  speak  only  of  the  vital  need  of 
God's  authority  to  establish  and  carry  on  a  church. 
The  vitality  of  any  church  rests  upon  its  authority  to  act 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord.  The  priesthood  of  God  is  the  power 
and  authority  given  to  man  to  administer  in  the  ordinances  of 
his  gospel,  either  for  the  "quick  or  for  the  dead,"  or  for  both.  - 
One  of  the  great  revelations  received  by  the  Prophet  in  his 
first  vision  was  that  the  sects  of  the  day  had  all  lost  their  au- 
thority. A  wealth  of  information  on  the  apostasy  is  found  in 
Elder  B.  H.  Roberts'  book,  New  Witnesses  for  God,  especially 
in  the  first  seven  chapters ;  and  in  his  Gospel;  as  also  in  Elder 
Orson  F.  Whitney's  Gospel  Themes;  and  in  Talmage's  Articles  of 
Faith;  Orson  Pratt's  articles  on  Revelation,  and  The  Bible  an  In- 
sufficient Guide,  are  filled  with  great  truths  on  this  point.  The 
Restoration,  by  O.  J.  P.  Widtsoe  contains  valuable  data  also. 
From  the  point  of  view  of  a  non-"Mormon"  student,  the 
Roman  Catholic  Church  would  seem  to  be  the  only  Christian 
church  on  earth  with  any  shadow  of  claim  to  real  succession  of 
divine  authority,  from  the  time  of  Christ.  All  other  Christian 
sects,  and  there  are  literally  hundreds  of  them,  claim  that  the 
Catholic  church  apostatized  from  the  true  Christian  faith.  The 
reformed  churches  are  undoubtedly  right  in  this  view.     But,  the