New General Board Appointments Pauline Jaggart Pingree Professor Joseph F. Smith AULINE TAGGART PINGREE is a daughter and granddaughter of pioneers. Her grandparents, converts to the Church in 1836, came to Utah in 1848. In 1900, when Pauline was fourteen years old, her father, George PAULINE T. PINGREE H. Taggart, together with eleven other brethren, was called by President Lorenzo Snow to settle the Big Horn Basin in Wyoming. Pauline's mother, Jessie McKinnen Taggart, was the mother of sixteen living children, the youngest being four years old. Brother and Sister Taggart had already done a good deal of pioneering in Morgan, Utah, where Pauline's grandparents had settled and where Pauline was born. Moving to what amounted to virgin territory was no little trial, but the call had come and the Taggart family moved to Big Horn. They spent a large part of the first year in tents. With seven younger brothers and sisters—Pauline was the ninth of sixteen children—there was plenty of hard work for Pauline. Personal experience taught her what pioneering meant. During a visit to Utah in 1903, she met a young missionary just back from Germany. A year later, Frank Pingree went to Big Hom, claimed Pauline for his bride, and brought her back to Coalville, where he was cashier of the bank.- For thirteen years they lived in Coalville, Brother Pingree being at various times mayor, bishop and stake superintendent of the Sunday School board. Pauline, in addition to giving her husband three sons and two daughters, gave excellent Church service, first as president of the ward Y. W. M. I. A. And second as counselor in the Y. W. M. I. A. Stake presidency. She was also a faithful member of the choir. The World War called for talents and abilities such as those Pauline possessed so abundantly. She went throughout Summit county singing in Red Cross benefit concerts, assisting with and giving instruction in the Government conservation program, for which she later received NEW  . They lived in the Eleventh Ward but a short time when Pauline was called to serve as first counselor to Emma S. Teudt, president of the Y. W. M. I. A. Later, she was called to the Ensign Stake Y. W. M. I. A. Board. The prolonged illness of her son, Paul, who died in 1925, when fifteen years of age, compelled her to resign. In the same year, the new University Ward was organized, and Frank Pingree was made bishop. When Bishop Pingree died, in 1933, Pauline had served as president of the Y. W. M. I. A. For four years. After his death she was called to be president of the University Ward Relief Society. After organizing the ward Society, in May, 1935, she went to Washington, D. C., to attend school. On her return, she was again called into the 369 presidency as counselor to Luella N. Adams, serving for three years. Her formal schooling was meager, but she has always had an avidity for learning. In 1934, she attended summer school in Madison, Wisconsin. At the time she was called to the General Board she was endearing herself to the women who came together under her instruction at the Bishop's Regional Storehouse, in addition to her ward work. Sister Pingree's talents and training particularly fit her for Relief Society service. Her pioneer experience, her long, varied. Activity in - Church auxiliary and civic organizations, her thirst for knowledge, her extensive association with groups banded together for intellectual improvement, such as the Friendship Circle and the Classic Club, have been wonderful preparation for the service to which she has been called.