NOTES FROM THE FIELD 415 SINGING MOTHERS IN HAWAII AND CHURCH OFFICIALS AND RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Front row, left to right—Lydia Fernandez; Lydia Cummings, counselor, Oahu Stake Relief Society; President and Mrs. Hilton A. Robertson, Japanese Mission; President Roscoe C. Cox, Hawaiian Mission; Armada B. Cox, president Hawaiian Mission Relief Society; Nohea Kopa, counselor, Oahu Stake Relief Society; Eliza N. Salm, president, Oahu Stake Relief Society; Presiding Bishop LeGrand Richards, Grace Callis; Elder Charles A. Callis of the Council of Twelve, Romania Hyde Woolley; Annie Ha'o, secretary, Oahu Stake Relief Society; Eva Parker and Annie Mahelona, members of Relief Society stake board. At the extreme right of the second row is Lilia Wahapaa Kaneihalau of Waimea. Kauai, reputed to be cither 103 or 107 years old, a faithful member and leader in church work since young womanhood, who is still active physically and mentally. Just behind her, left to right, are Lillie Cummings Deering, director; Inez Waldron, pianist; and Violet Awai, organist for the Singing Mothers, this session, and Sister Callis also spoke. "A special roll call was made of the mothers present who had had six or more children. As indicated by the following table, fifty-three mothers responded, and the number of chil- -dren per mother was reported as ranging from six to twenty-three. No. Of Mothers _—_—No. Of Children 6 HBP e Bw NW NR ANU ANwWV ry vv reported that his mother had given birth to twenty-seven children." Nevada Stake HOPE BROADBENT, counselor to Anna M. Aljets, Relief Society president of Nevada Stake, wrote the account of the first public concert of the Singing Mothers of this stake, from which the following excerpts are quoted: "On the evening of December 3, 1939, the Singing Mothers of Nevada Stake gave their first public concert in the Stake House in Ely, Nevada, under the direction of their conductor, Alta Yates. This chorus is composed of forty Relief Society women. "The program consisted of wellselected choral numbers, two beautiful vocal solos, a double quartet, and an a capella trio. Oh, Sleep, My Baby, sung by the trio, was comlis and Bishop Richards addressed "One man, Moses Ekau of Kauai, NOTES FROM THE FIELD posed by Ruby Stoker, director of the Singing Mothers of Rexburg Stake, Idaho, who is the mother of Alta Yates, director of the Nevada Stake chorus. In harmony with the spirit of the music, Ramona Wilson read Edwin Markham's How the Great Guest Came. "The concert was exceptionally 417 mas musicale, sponsored by a local club." California Mission ELLE L. MACDONALD, Relief Society president of the California Mission, wrote recently of the recital by the Singing Mothers at Monterey. Because of this successful appearance, they were invited to SINGING MOTHERS OF NEVADA STAKE well attended and so well received that the Nevada Stake Singing Mothers were extended an invitation to participate in a community Christpresent a concert in San Jose.