LUISA TETRAZZINI, golden-voiced soprano of grand opera, died recently in Milan. Not only will she always be remembered by the musical world but by everyone who ever was thrilled by the power of her lovely voice and perfect acting. JOAN and Mary Campbell, daughters of one of Utah's pioneer educators, died last April, age 83. These two sisters had remarkable careers during the long years. They claim the distinction of being first among women in several lines of service. Joan was the first woman appointed to a government position in the Tertitory, in 1874, receiving a commission as notary by joint legislative enactment signed by Governor Wood; Mary was the first woman clerk in Z. C. M. 1; both held clerical positions in Church offices. ELMA LAGERLOF, Swedish writer, who died in April, was the first woman to win the Nobel prize for literature. "RACE M. CANDLAND'S sonnet Hills is included in the April issue of the poetry magazine called Westminster Magazine of Oglethorpe, Georgia—the only Utah contribution. LICE TISDALE HOBART'S In Their Own Country, Susan Glaspell's The Morning Is Near Us, Gwen Bristow's This Side of Glory, Pearl S. Buck's Other Gods, Margaret Sangster's Reluctant Star, Phyllis Bently's The Power and the Glory are new novels by women vacationists will enjoy.  

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 ' President First Counselor Second Counselor - - Secretary-Treasurer Luella N. Adams Gertrude R. Garft i Leona B. Fetzer Lisnieme @ BienD Edith S. Elliott Anna B. Hart Pauline T. Pingree Ethel B. Andrew Alice B. Castleton Belle S. Spafford Amy Brown Lyman Vol. XXVII JUNE, 1940 No. 6 CEDI ORIAL © Pray Always Shat Ye Faint Mot S the great news mediums of the day constantly pour forth their harrowing stories of war, our hearts tremble with anxiety and our souls are stirred to the depths over the wanton destruction, suffering, and loss of life incident to such great national conflicts. We know that in all the warring nations are those who are peace-loving, people of fine ideals and worthy achievement; there are those who would go about their humble, daily tasks contented with life; those who would love their fellow men and find joy in service to them. Yet the demon of war has touched these people and drawn them into the conflict whether they would or would not. The malignant spirit of evil is rampant, and untold suffering is extant. Our hearts go out in sympathy to those so sorely afflicted. Yet how helpless we feel in the face of such world-harrowing calamities. Though the women are not called to shoulder arms, they carry a great deal of the burden of war. We know the heartbreak that is every mother's who sends her loved ones out to battle. We know the strict disciplines of war which she must accept —the firm controls, the shortened rations. Working in the fields and in many other ways, she must perform the tasks of absent husband and sons who have answered the call. Raising funds, providing clothing and other necessities form a noteworthy phase of women's work. Nursing wounded and invalid soldiers, not a few have paid with their lives for their sublime devotion to the demands of pity, charity, love, and patriotism. - Woman's war record is a record of quiet, unostentatious, self-sacrificing heroism. And how may the grief and anguish of these valiant wives and mothers who are caught in the meshes of war be mitigated? Only through turning to their God. With renewed devotion they must seek Him. They must pray, frequently and fervently, for comfort and solace. The Lord has said: "Praying always that they faint not; and inasmuch as they do this, I will be with them 402 even unto the end (Doc. And Cov., Sec, 75:11). And we who are in Zion must also pray. We must unite our prayers with those of our sisters across the sea, that the comforting influence of the Father will sustain us all in