Rich, sang on the regular Church radio program, over KSL, Sunday evening, March 17, 1940. On this occasion, the 98th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society, Elder Bryant S. Hinckley delivered a fine tribute to the Relief Society, and a review of its history, purpose and scope. This address was published in the Deseret News, Church Section, March 23, 1940. New Zealand Mission LVA T. COWLEY, supervisor of women's auxiliary organizations in the New Zealand Mission, wrote that the Singing Mothers in this mission were featured at the Hui Tau (conference) held March 22-25, 1940. Held at Nuhaka, about 400 miles from Auckland, the mission headquarters, Mrs. Cowley stated that the representation from various parts of the mission was good even though gasoline is very expensive and its sale ls ordinarily restricted to allotments sufficient for local travel only. At this gathering, Relief Society quilts and other handwork were on display, the meetings for Relief Society officers were reported to be splendid, and the success of the Relief Society pageant and the Singing Mothers was outstanding. Both European and Maori members of the Church participated in the plans and arrangements for the Hui Tau and in the conduct of the varied program of meetings, musicales, and _recreational functions. Pare Takana is president of the Relief Society in this mission. Benson Stake (Richmond, Utah) OMMEMORATING the 98th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society, a chorus of sixty Singing Mothers presented the B. Cecil Gates cantata, Resurrection Morning, on the evening of March 17, 1940. The chorus was assisted in the beautiful rendition of this cantata by a guest orchestra. On this occasion, the membership arch of each ward was on display, and the symbolism of each was explained. "They were all lovely and expressed a great deal of individuality and thought," wrote Myrtle S. Pond, stake Relief Society secretary, who submitted this report. Lulu E. Johnson is president of the Relief Society in this stake. Parowan Stake (Parowan, Utah) ELIEF Society stake president, Barbara M. Adams, submitted the accompanying picture of Relief Society singers of the Enoch Ward of this stake, and their accompanist. These singers represent three generations of the same family, and they all live in the Enoch Ward. Lillian A. Esplin is president of the Relief Society in this ward. THREE GENERATIONS OF RELIEF SOCIETY SINGERS IN ENOCH WARD Left to right: Grace J. Smith, accompanist; Maude L. Matheson, grandmother, alto; Alice Stevens, granddaughter, second soprano; Violet M. Stevens, daughter, first soprano. The Cedar City First Ward held a special musical program and luncheon on October 31, 1939, which was arranged for by the ward officers and the Singing Mothers. Each member of the Society who served as a hostess sold tickets to three friends, and provided the table, setting, and luncheon for her group. Belle Armstrong, secretary of the ward Relief Society, wrote that this function, held on an unprogrammed fifth Tuesday in the month, was very successful, "bringing joy and happiness to those whose souls are hungry for a friendly handshake and a little social contact outside their homes," and also providing funds with which the Society purchased its supply of the new Relief Society Song Book. In fact, many members unable to participate otherwise, sent contributions for this fund. Mary Jane Bulloch is president of the Cedar City First Ward Relief Society. Star Valley Stake (Afton, Wyoming) A CONCERT, well attended and enthusiastically received, - was presented in December, 1939, by the stake Relief Society chorus, comprised of forty Singing Mothers. The concert was under the direction of the stake Relief Society chorister, Lettie D. Campbell; Chester Hill conducted the singers. This report came from the stake Relief Society secretary, Lucille Call; Arvilla Hyer is Relief Society president of this stake. Montpelier Stake (Montpelier, Idaho) "THE picture on the next page shows the Relief Society chorus of Montpelier Stake as they appeared at a Relief Society convention, December 3, 1939. This chorus is composed of seventy-five Singing Mothers. The director, Angie C. Amold, SINGING MOTHERS OF SAN LUIS STAKE (MANASSA, COLORADO) . Ar GME! SINGING MOTHERS OF MONTPELIER STAKE is at the extreme left in the picture. As an expression of love and appreciation for her, the chorus surprised her with a Christmas party on December 20, where she was presented with a beautiful, fitted traveling case. Romina Perkins is Relief Society president of this stake. Hawaiian Mission ROSCOE C. COX, president of the Hawaiian Mission, submitted the accompanying picture of Singing Mothers of the Oahu Stake and Hawaiian Mission, and an interesting narrative report of their recent conference, March 16-19, 1940, from which the following excerpts are quoted: "Living up to the well-earned reputation of the organization, the Relief Societies of the Hawaiian Mission and the Oahu Stake played a major part in the recent joint conference of the stake and the Japanese and Hawaiian Missions. General Authorities of the Church who attended the conference were Elder Charles A. Callis of the Council of the Twelve and Presiding Bishop LeGrand Richards. Sister Callis accompanied her husband. "The opening function of the conference was a song contest, bazaar, and dance held the evening of March 15, 1940, under auspices of the Relief Societies of the Oahu stake and Hawaiian Mission. Singing Mothers from seven wards of the stake and from three outlying islands of the mission participated in this contest. Kalihi and Kakaako wards won first and second place, respectively, for the stake, while the Keaukaha branch of the Hilo district, Island of Hawaii, won first place for the mission. More than 1,000 individuals attended this entertainment. "The Relief Society session of the conference was held Saturday forenoon, March 16, and was attended by 411 persons. Singing by a large group of Singing Mothers from the stake and mission was a special feature at this meeting. The chorus was conducted by Lilly Cummings Deering with Inez Waldron and Violet Awai as accompanists. Eliza N. Salm, president of Oahu Stake Relief Society, conducted the meeting and gave the address of welcome. Atmada B. Cox, president of-the Hawaiian Mission Relief Society, introduced the theme, "Mother, Home and Child." Talks on the three phases of this theme were given by Piilani K. Needham of Hawaii, Lizzie Aipoalani of Kauai and Mary Tyau of Honolulu. Both Elder Cal- ight: NGING MOTHERS OF -NORDLK, VIRGINIA, EAST CENTRAL STATES MISSION Left: SINGING MOTHERS OF JUAREZ STAKE (MEXICO) a Upper Group: SINGING MOTHERS OF BEAR LAKE STAKE (PARIS, IDAHO) Lower Group: SINGING MOTHERS OF PALMYRA STAKE (SPANISH FORK, UTAH)