—_4—___ Alice Bitner Castleton Helen Spencer Williams Christ of Latter-day Saints prepares well those who are called into important roles of leadership. Alice Bitner Castleton, new appointee to the General Board of Relief Society, was born of goodly parents. Her father, Brenamen Barr Bitner, drove his widowed mother across the plains when but a lad of twelve years, arriving in Salt Lake Valley in 1849. Her mother, Martina Halsett, when seventeen years of age, left family and friends in Oslo, Norway, and came alone to Zion for the sake of the religion which she had Tous the Church of Jesus embraced. Here in the valley of the mountains these two met, married and reared a splendid family, ten daughters and two sons, all of whom have achieved success in various lines of endeavor. The home of Brenamen Bitner and his wife was one of spirituality, refinement and culture. A love for the Gospel was instilled into the consciousness of the children, and the principles of the Gospel were their guide for living. Alice was the fifth child in the family. Early in life she learned to appreciate good literature, to love 370 music and art, and to keep an avid interest in current affairs. But growing into womanhood in a home where the Gospel was paramount, it permeated all she did. What a wholesome, interesting girlhood and young womanhood was hers—school, parties, beaux driving out on Sunday afternoons and evenings to the BitALICE B. CASTLETON ner farm, vying with each other for a tying spot for their horses and buggies along the tree-lined drive to the Bitner home. Then came her marriage to Wallace C. Castleton and the establishment of their home together. Many are the splendid attributes of character of Alice Bitner Castleton, but first and foremost among these has been her great ability as a homemaker; she has been an ideal wife and mother. The Castleton home has been one where love, harmony and intelligence has held 

 

 sway. The five children born to the Castletons have been given every advantage possible, and these young men and women have now established homes of their own and are a credit to the mother and father. Frequently friends of the family, dropping in unexpectedly, would find the entire family gathered about the piano, one daughter or son playing the piano, another the violin, and all singing together the songs they loved. Perhaps the visitor would find the family giving rapt attention to a painting by one of the daughters, or, on a winter night, gathered about the open fire listening to mother or father read. Understanding and a real love of friends have made the Castleton home a haven of hospitality for all who know them, both young and old. During the long, serious illness of Sister Castleton's beloved husband and the heartbreaking experience of his untimely death, she kept her sorrows and sadness within her own heart and shared only her smiles with others. Only those intimately associated with her realized her sorTOws. During Alice Bitner Castleton's entire life she has rendered devoted service to the Church. Her time and energy she has given wholeheartedly, enthusiastically. Her love for the Gospel and her devout adherence to its principles have been as a beacon to those with whom she has come in contact. Her many and varied activities have been profoundly enriched by her lovable, interesting personality, and those who have come under her leadership have felt the influence of her integrity and sincerity of nature. She has served her Church in NEW GENERAL BOARD APPOINTMENTS many positions of leadership. She has been a counselor in the Twentyfirst Ward Primary Association and also a board member in the Ensign Stake Primary Association. She has taught Relief Society literature lessons, being ably qualified for this work through her extensive reading and active membership in the Classic and Authors clubs—both organizations widely known for their superior literary programs. For four years she served as Relief Society president in the Twenty-first Ward, after which she was appointed first counselor to Luacine S. Clark in the Ensign Stake Relief Society presidency. Succeeding Sister Clark, she served as stake president for a period of three and one-half years. At a later date, she was again called to serve in the Ensign Stake Relief Society as counselor to Janet M. Thompson and later as counselor to Radie O. Hyde. At the time of her appointment to the General Board of Relief Society, 371 she was serving as an ordinance worker in the Salt Lake Temple. Rarely is one called to the General Board who is better qualified to assume the responsibilities of this important woman's work. Her personality radiates love and understanding, her mind challenges and seeks the best. She has a warmth of emotion that wins all who come into her presence and a spirituality that inspires hope and faith. During all of these years of constant Church service, she has kept her social contacts, which have enriched her life and given her unusual balance. Her friends are myriad. Truly, this high honor which has come to a worthy woman is well deserved, for throughout the days of her girlhood, wifehood and motherhood she has been preparing herself. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints prepares well those who are called into the roles of leadership. ——_-—__ TAFFETA and LAVENDER Rustle of taffeta on the stair, Scent of lavender in the air. Lovingly hovering over my bed, My mother bends her lovely head. Hair, soft and dusky, frames her face; She holds me close in her embrace. She sings a lullaby so dear; It comes to my memory, soft and clear. When footsteps are weary and days are long, In the still of evening I hear her song. Soft as the hush of the faint twilight, It whispers and fades away in the night.