these perilous times; that men will repent and cease to do evil; that peace may once again reign upon the earth so that mankind everywhere may enjoy the earth and the fullness thereof. Vacations Shat Re-Create MEN have long recognized that with health are interwoven most of the fortunes of life. Yet the world is full of people who do not enjoy optimum health. Though most of us come from vigorous racial stock, though we live in a relatively healthful climate, though our knowledge of the rules of health is fairly extensive, we frequently find ourselves ailing, our vitality low, our physical fitness not quite up to par. Because of the operation of a wide variety of forces today, one of the most common ailments of a great majority of us is fatigue. 'The nerves, the mind, the body suffer from this miserable malady. It asserts itself in restlessness, irritability, languor, lack of concentration, disturbed sleep, reduced efficiency, a drawn expression of the face, and numerous other _ ways. But fatigue is in reality a protective measure, for it is nature's warning to us that it is time to rest. Rest is a fundamental law of health. Every part of the body requires its periods of rest. It is during these rest periods that tissues are nourished and the body restored. As the summer season approaches, most of us are looking forward with anticipation to a vacation. Webster Says a vacation is an intermission from labor, a period of rest. How many of us make our vacations conform to this definition? Do we plan the type of activity that will provide surcease from the taxing routines in which we are daily engaged? Do we view vacations as periods in which to rebuild ourselves that we may return to our labors with renewed vitality? Or, do we feverishly search about for something stimulating to do— some place exciting to go, returning with nerves taxed and bodies tired, grateful for the order and regularity of our normal lives? Everyone needs a vacation—the school child, the tired mother, the busy business man. No matter how urgent may be the demands of labor, we should occasionally take a vacation; for truly, "All work makes Jack a dull boy." But vacations should be more than a few days set aside in which to travel far and spend much. They should be days of genuine recreation—days in which to conquer that commonest of all ailments— fatigue. CEFR No TO THE FIELD Educa tional Courses Combined Attention: Stake and ward executive officers, Social Service and Education for Family Life class leaders IN line with the recommendation of the General Authorities of the Church that the auxiliaries simplify their programs and conserve the time and energy of both officers and members, the General Board announces that the Social Service course and the course on Education for Family Life will be combined into a single department. The name Social Service will be used to designate the department. The subject matter to be used will be in the field of sociology, which embraces material appropriate to the interests and needs of both groups. A detailed announcement of the plan for 1940- 41 is included in the lesson previews under Social Service Department, page 423, in this issue of the Magazine. Work-andBusiness Outlines to be Published FoR the Relief Society year 1940- 41, the General Board has outlined a program for discussion on Work-and-Business Day, titled Food Makes a Difference, to be used in addition to the handwork. The importance of such a program will be readily recognized. However, its use in the local organizations is optional. Subject matter which will provide a basis for eight discussions will be published in the Relief Society Magazine. This will not only provide ia more permanent record of the course but will make the material easily available to both class leaders and members. The material will be included in the Lesson Department under the heading Work-andBusiness. See Lesson Preview, page 421, in this issue of the Magazine. General Board Lesson Outlines FOR the past two years, the General Board has prepared and sent to the stakes and missions detailed, mimeographed lesson outlines, including carefully selected quotations and supplementary references. During the year 1938-39, outlines on three lessons selected from each of the three major courses of study (Theology, Literature, Social Service) were prepared and sent to the stakes and missions; during 1939-40 outlines were sent on the theology lessons only. The purpose of these outlines was to aid stake and mission class leaders who were having difficulty in finding suitable and authentic material for lesson enrichment, as well as to show how some of the teaching theory presented in the class leader's department at the conference-conventions might be applied in lesson planning. While these outlines were well received, the General Board feels that it is not necessary to continue them for the year 1940-41. The new 404 lessons are of such a nature that no difficulty is anticipated in finding ample supplementary lesson material in any of the courses of study. The teaching performance of Relief Society class leaders throughout the Church justifies the opinion of the General Board that further out

 

 lining in the interest of lesson planning is not necessary at the present time. The General Board is very proud of its hundreds of class leaders whose work reflects thorough study, careful lesson planning and skilled presentation. University of Utah Summer Session PROGRAMS of special interest to Relief Society women are scheduled for the 1940 summer session - of the University of Utah. An Institute of Education for Family Life will be held from June 17 to 21, inclusive. The program for the week has been arranged by the local committee (Winifred Hazen, chairman) in cooperation with Professor Flora M. Thurston of Cornell University. The following sessions to be held in Kingsbury Hall should be found particularly profitable: Monday, June 17, 11:00 a. M. General Session. "Education for Family Life"— Howard W. Odum. Tuesday, June 18, 11:00 a. M. General Session. "'Are Modern Parents Helpless?" —Henry Neumann. Thursday, June 20, 11:00 a. M. General Session. "What About Your Family's Food?""—Margaret S. Chaney. Friday, June 21, 11:00 a. M. General Session. "Family Life, the Threshold of Democracy' —Flora M 'Thurston. The Tree of Liberty, selected for use in the Relief Society Literature department for 1940-41, will be reviewed Wednesday, July 3, 11:00 a. M. By Dr. Henry Neumann. The University summer session provides wonderful opportunity for us to contact the Nation's outstanding authorities in their various fields. Howard W. Odum is Kenan Professor of Sociology and Director of the School of Public Welfare, University of North Carolina. He has a fine reputation both as a teacher and lecturer. The Bulletin states that "were it not for the fact that Dr. Odum has a professional interest in social research in Utah he would not be available for summer session teaching; his coming... Is a rare opportunity for students in Education, Psychology, Sociology, and Social Work." Dr. Henry Neumann, Brooklyn Society for Ethical Culture, is well known as an author, teacher and lecturer. Relief Society women are acquainted with his excellent work through his participation on previous University summer session programs. Margaret S. Chaney is chairman of the Department of Home Economics, Connecticut College. She is an expert in Nutrition and is well known nationally through her articles in leading scientific journals and through her textbook, Nutrition (joint authorship with M. Ahlborn).