Prayer Mary Ek Knowles HEN the alarm went off, W Beth turned over sleepily, nestled further down into the warm covers and waited to hear Larry get out of bed and grumble good-naturedly about "having to get up in the middle of the night." Then she remembered with a start that Larry was dead, and she was mother and father for her little family, and the alarm clock was ringing for her. She reached over and turned it off quickly so as not to awaken Robin and Roberta, slipped into her blue flannel robe and went quietly into the kitchen. Despite the saucy, red and white curtains, the bright linoleum, the kitchen looked gray and deserted in the early morning light. As Beth stood with her hand on the light switch, the thought came to her that she missed Larry most of all in the morning. His presence had started the day off right. She missed him talking to her while he dressed— coming to the kitchen door, face white with lather, razor in hand, to: tell her what Smith had said the day before. Most of all, she missed his smile across the breakfast table. She shook her head as if to dispel the dark mood, flicked on the light and busied herself about the kitchen. Today was Sunday, and she had promised herself she was going to Sunday School. She had need of spiritual food, a communion with God. There was much to be done before Betty Lou, the neighbor girl, came to tend the twins. She checked off in her mind the things she must do: start the roast, peel the vegetables, mix custards, prepare breakfast, bathe and dress the twins. Her spirits lifted as she hurried about. What a God-given blessing was work to occupy one's hands— and one's mind. As she peeled the carrots, she considered the job that had been offered her by McDonald Brokerage and Real Estate. It was low pay, of course, to start with. But they were an established firm. If her work proved satisfactory, she might go far. She was sure she would enjoy working there. The office was a pleasant one overlooking the town square; the job of secretary to Mr. Campbell a likable one. She had been very fortunate to get such a chance so soon after completing the business training course. It was not the problem of work that was bothering her. She frown-- ed and pushed a lock of dark hair back from her forehead with a slim hand. The problem was what to do about the children. Of course, what she needed was an efficient housekeeper — someone middle-aged, steady, someone who would love the three-year-old twins and have patience with their mischievous ways. What she wanted was the impossible. She reviewed the discouraging line of applicants she had interviewed during the past week: young girls with their minds on scarlet nail-polish, the latest fad in hairdressing, and the opposite sex; mature women with demands—"... Understand, I'd want two afternoons off a week PRAYER.. No less than ten dollars a week and room and board... I'll teach them to mind... You'd have to get an electric range, I could never use a coal range..." None of them were anywhere near suitable, and tomorrow she must go to work, and oh!——Of a sudden, everything was too much for her: Larry's sudden death from pneumonia, the responsibility, the worry —life. She started to cry, weakly at first, then almost hysterically. She dried her hands on a dish towel, went quickly into the bedroom and stood at the foot of the twins' bed. Poor babies! What was to become of them? She clasped her hands, pressed them tightly against her lips and prayed. "Dear God—" That was all. Just so are fervent prayers offered —in crowded streets, in the stillness of the night; a quick glance upward, a sharp intake of breath, an imploring sigh. And He hears, reads the heart, and knows the words the lips cannot speak. ITH quick steps, Beth walked out into the freshly-washed beauty that was a May morning. Rows of tulips stood at attention beneath her dining room window. She bent and touched a red tulip, felt the dew cool on her finger-tips, drank deeply of the fragrance of lilacs and hyacinths. Could one witness the miracle of spring each year and still doubt that there was a God— everlasting life! She looked up at the sound of a tapping on the window to find Robin and Roberta, noses flattened against the window, waving at her. Precious babies! She waved back, a trim little figure in her dark, tail- 373 ored suit, then continued on her way down the wide, tree-bordered sidewalk of Locust Street. Soon the trees would be green, branches bending. Perhaps, if all went well, she could buy the little house on Locust Street as she and Larry had planned. And all would go well! She had a job to go to. Perhaps Mrs. Gardener next door would tend the twins just for tomorrow, and then surely she would find someone. Her mood was a happy one. Almost frantically she hugged it to her heart enjoying it to the full. But as she neared the church her step became slower, heavier, the beautiful feeling slipped away and her heart was again heavy. She was a stranger here! She and Larry had moved to Adamsville only six months before. There had not been time ta get acquainted. She looked about her for Bishop Swanson. He had been very kind when Larry died, had preached a consoling sermon at the quiet funeral service. But she was so alone! People passed her on the steps in couples and groups, and no one said, "Good morning." The smile on Beth's face became rigid, her throat tightened. She was about to turn and go home when she beheld a plump, gray-haired woman coming up the steps. She was expensively and tastefully dressed in a tailored, blue suit, a chic, white hat and accessories—and she was a stranger, too. Beth could see it in the almost hungry way she looked about, in the fixed smile on her pleasant face. Their eyes met, and the fixed smile became deep, warm. Miraculously, in that moment, by the common bond of loneliness, they were friends. 374 "Lovely morning, isn't it?" Beth smiled and held out her hand. "I'm Beth Tanner." The older woman took Beth's slim hand in her two motherly ones. "I'm Mrs. McBride," she said, "Mamie McBride." The ridiculous thought came to Beth that somehow the stylish clothes didn't suit Mamie McBride; she should be wearing a comfortable house dress — a lavender print one and a big white over-apron. The strains of an organ floated out to them. "The services are starting," Mrs. McBride said. "Let us go in together." They secured a seat by the open window, and the fragrance of hyacinths came through. They held the song book together, stood side by side, their shoulders touching. Beth felt that she had known Mamie McBride all her life. FTER the services, they walked from the church together, and Beth had a sudden reluctance to bid her new friend good-by. "Are you going my way?" she asked. "I live on Locust Street." "No," Mrs. McBride shook her head, a sad little smile on her face, "T live on Circle Way in the fashionable Commodore Apartments." She turned and sighed, and there was something in that sigh that brought quick tears to Beth's blue eyes. Why, she must be terribly unhappy. "Come home with me," Beth invited impulsively, forgetting her own problem. "Come to dinner, spend the day with me, please do—unless someone is waiting for you at home." Mamie McBride gave a sudden 

 

 little laugh that was like a bright patch of sunshine on a clean linoleum floor. "No one is waiting but the doorman, and I don't think he'll miss me. I'm afraid he hasn't exactly approved of me since that first day when I shook hands with him and tried to get acquainted. One doesn't do that at the Commodore. Why, I don't even know the woman across the hall from me. Oh, I'd love to come, unless—" she stopped, and her brown eyes searched Beth's face, "I'd be intruding. I'd hate to do that. Your husband—" Beth looked quickly away. "There are just the two babies and I." She hooked her arm through the older. Woman's arm and smiled at her. "Please come." "Tell me about your children," Mrs. McBride begged as they walked along. "How many have you?" "Two," Beth answered, "Twins— Robin and Roberta." Suddenly her problem came back to worry her again—the new job and no housekeeper. "Enjoy your babies, my dear, while you have them," Mamie McBride said in a fervent tone. "Too often mothers miss the happiness of today looking forward to the tomorrow. They can scarcely wait until the baby can walk and talk, and then dress himself, and then go to school. Live each day to the last precious second. "Why, look at me for instance. When the family was small, I looked forward eagerly to the time when they would all be grown, when I could sleep late in the mornings, come and go as I pleased, spend a whole afternoon in a beauty parlor ora show house, cook birdlike meals, try the newest diet fads. PRAYER "And now the time has arrived. My family is grown, married, moved away, and I'm—I'm terribly bored!" For a moment she was silent, thinking. "TI live in a modern apartment," she went on rapidly. "My son settled me there before he and Ruth went to South America, so I could take life easy. Oh, he meant well. He's always been so good to me, as have all my children. Well, there I am. I clean my apartment from living room to kitchenette, then I sit on the couch and fold my hands and then clean it all over again for want of something better to do." There: was a note of hysteria in her voice. "Why, look at me!" She extended plump, efficient hands expressively. 'Tm no lady of leisure to sit about in a silk dress. These hands were meant to mix bread, hold a rolling pin, flute the edges of a pie, wash a tubful of clothes!" Her brown eyes flooded with tears. "I want to be needed. If I could just find someone with a few 375 tiny children who needed a housekeeper." Beth's heart skipped a beat. "Say that again!" she said. "Why only this morning... " And suddenly she was opening her heart to the older woman, telling her about Larty's death and the new job and about the inexperienced girls and the demanding women. "Oh, if you would only take the job," Beth found herself begging. "Of course, I couldn't pay much at first, but as my wages increased..." The woman seemed scarcely to hear her. "How old did you say your children are?" "Two years. They're really very good babies. I..." "That's such a sweet age. Just the age when they like warm cookies and gingerbread men. I've dozens of stories just begging to be told to a wide-eyed child. My dear, if you'd let me come!" "Let you!" Beth fought to keep back the happy tears. Her prayer had been answered.