'Let Your Light So Shine" Anna S. Barlow T was a land of beauty and sunshine, a land of wild flowers and gray-purple sage that the pioneers first gazed upon as they stood on the foothills that July morning in 1847. The panorama before them was a welcome sight to their tired souls, and they were deeply grateful because of their wonderful blessings. They set about cultivating the rich soil and building homes, and soon cities grew out of the wilderness— beautiful cities where trees, shrubs and flowers, planted and cultivated by industrious men and women, added their charm to the natural splendor of the landscape. 'The desert was truly made "to blossom as the tose." The pioneers lived deeply and created greatly, and we honor them for making it possible for us to enjoy the privilege of living in this choice land. On the eve of the centennial celebration of the pioneers' entrance into the Salt Lake Valley, what greater tribute can we pay to them than to show the same pride and desire for the beautiful that they expressed in their lives by beautifying homes and communities. It is necessary for us to keep well in mind the part that we as individuals must play in the beautification campaign that has been instituted by our state and our Church to make our communities more attractive to the many strangers who will visit us during the next few years. Each must play his part, and all must work unitedly. In order to appreciate the true value of our participation in the campaign, we must take a broad view and see the community as a whole. If there is one broken-down fence or one untidy yard on the street, then the beauty of that street is marred. Our state has many beautiful, natural scenic attractions. Our people as a whole are judged by the appearance of the communities through which the tourist travels in reaching these scenic wonders. This is a challenge to every interested citizen of Utah who is proud of his state and interested in its reputation. If we will get close to the soil and help to create beauty as our pioneer forefathers did, our lives will be enriched immeasurably and our efforts will pay large dividends in health, enjoyment and spiritual values. Neat home surroundings with flowers, lawns, trees and shrubbery have a decidedly uplifting effect upon the occupants of the household, and these improvements will be reflected in a more cheerful and pleasant atmosphere about the home, the neighborhood and the community as a whole; while on the other hand, untidiness and ugliness about the home grounds have a tendency to depress the members of the household and are conducive to unhappiness and discontent. There are a great many people who could be made infinitely happier if someone would inspire them to make their immediate surroundings more attractive. Perhaps by beautifying your surroundings you may be that inspiration. Our homes may remain basically the same from year to year, but time "LET YOUR LIGHT SO SHINE" should make them more charming and livable. Through pride and industry, they can be made mote attractive, more comfortable and restful, more livable and more homely. When one beautifies his own property, he has respect for it. It is an easy step from respect for one's own property to respect for another's. Respect for the property of others is a cardinal virtue and one that we could well spend a little time in cultivating. Streets are a reflection of the citizens of our cities. Beautiful trees, shrubs and flowers bespeak an industrious and refined people, while 399 weeds, debris and untidiness denote indolence and lack of pride. Time spent in improvement and beautification of homes and communities brings rich rewards in improved characters and in aesthetic values. Latter-day Saints have been commissioned by our Father "to be a light unto the world" (Doc. And Cov., 103:7-9). Let those who come into our midst see the ideals and high standards of our people reflected in well-kept homes and communities. "Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven" (Matthew, 5:16).