MUSIC DEPARTMENT Spiritual Uplift of Music Luella N. Adams PIRITUALITY is the most viS tal need of the world today. When the spirit of the Master touches the hearts of men, man's inhumanity to man vanishes. Music is one of the foundation stones of spirituality. As a gift from God, it means so much in our lives. It is an important part of all our religious life. All through the ages the emissaries of righteousness have made their divine message more effective through the use of music. Martin Luther said, "Besides theology, music is the only art capable of affording peace and joy to the heart like that induced by the science of divinity. The proof of this is that the Devil, the originator of sorrowful anxieties and_ restless troubles, flees before the sound of music almost as much as he does before the Word of God. This is why the prophets preferred music before all the other arts, proclaiming the Word in psalms and hymns." When listening to beautiful music, beautifully rendered, our hearts are tuned to the infinite. Truly, in such an atmosphere petty thoughts are banished from our minds, and we are touched with the spirit of our Creator. Our people have always been music loving and have endeavored to foster and encourage good music. The Lord has said: "My soul delighteth in the song of the heart, yea the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me." Some of the greatest sermons and messages of the Church have come through song. It seems that sacred song has been a part of every religious movement. Come, Come Ye Saints, sung at night around the camp-fire, gave our pioneers courage and determination to press on. At the time of the greatest tragedy in the history of the Mormon Church, a hymn was sung. In that last hour in Carthage Jail, Brother Taylor, as. A comfort to the Prophet and Hyrum, sang A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief. At this fateful moment, it was the sustaining influence of a song that brought solace and peace to these martyrs. What a tribute to a hymn. When in danger, Martin Luther would sing, "God is our refuge and strength, an ever present help in trouble." A serious obligation rests on choristers and organists of the Relief Society. Not only is it their duty to conduct, but it is also their obligation to stimulate a love for singing. It is one of the ennobling activities in which all are able to participate. In our meetings much precious time is given to singing, and rich spiritual uplift should be the reward. Oto Shoten THE music in my heart I bore, Long after it was heard no more. Wordsworth, Memorials of a Tour in Scotland.