ere the skies, and gray were the fields upon which gray rain descended. Not a beam of sunlight had that day found its way to brighten a single corner of Gaetha Langley's world. It was, she reflected, entirely fitting; and yet?yet, remembering cold drops falling upon a silent casket as it was lowered into the waiting grave,?remembering the dull thud of wet black sod falling into place upon it?remembering these, Gaetha would have given worlds if that casket might have been touched by one single farewell ray of the light that Nona had so passionately loved.
Nona had been so like a sunbeam herself! To think of her now??laid to rest out there beneath sodden earth and leaden skies, brought to Gaetha an agony that it seemed she could not bear. There was not, she mused, a single ray of brightness in all her world.
But a sudden sound from the room behind her, attracted her attention and she turned with a choking sob. From beneath a pink blanket on the couch, a chubby dimpled hand extended and waved to and fro experimentally. With a convulsive movement, Gaetha caught the child to her breast, pressed the tiny hand to her lips. The baby gurgled gleefully and then struggled against the too close embrace. Gaetha relaxed and bent her head so that the little fingers might entangle themselves in her hair.
No, there was this ray of sunshine. Nona's baby!
She sat down in a rocker and let the child play with her fingers while together they rocked slowly to and fro, and silent moments dragged by while the rain pitted itself endlessly against the cold window-panes and night-shadows crept gloomily over the landscape. At last the babe grew fretful, and Gaetha roused herself from her brooding and set about preparing her supper; but still the woman's gloomy thoughts were not dispelled. She felt a helpless bitterness against life; cheated, robbed, beaten?what was there left to live for?
The answer came in a ripple of gurgling laughter, in the gleam of tiny pearly teeth as little rosebud lips parted in innocent merriment. There was?Nona's baby. One more solitary bond holding her to a lonely existence.
Strange * * * There had always been?just one.
"And the baby, Mrs. Langley?" "Why, I shall keep her, of course. I should think there
THE ABUNDANT HARVEST 209
would be no question whatever as to my claim on her." Gaetha's tone implied a lack of understanding as to why the question ever had been asked.
Her caller sat for a moment in silence. Mrs. Paulsen was not over-enthusiastic regarding the object of her visit; but she felt duty-bound and she always tried to follow wherever duty led.
"Of course, Mrs. Langley, your 'claim,' as you put it, is a strong enough one. But we others of the Langley people feel that there is another consideration. Er?Well, religiously, you know how different your views are from those held by this baby's mother. Her religion meant the world?and more?to her! Do you think she would wish her little daughter to grow up with?with convictions like yours? Gaetha Langley, Nona's heart would have been broken?quite broken?at the mere thought of her child ever denying a belief in God and