The First Editor's Birthday
A prim little woman with keen eyes and a smile that lights up her countenance sometimes frequents our office. On the eighth day of April, 1928, she will be seventy-nine years of age. Should you meet her casually you would not suspect such a thing for there are still dark hairs among the gray and there is no sign of falter in her step. It is a long time since she did the editorial work on the Woman's Exponent in a room in the house of Lorenzo D. Young in the Eighteenth Ward, when Zina D. Young, Eliza R. Snow, Mary Isabelle Horne and Sarah M. Kimball gave her such staunch support. Lula Greene Richards was a mere girl then with dark curls and florid cheeks. Fate did not decree that she should long be the editor of the paper, for one day there happened into her office a young man by the name of Levi W. Richards who evidently fell in love with her. In any event, she was wedded to him on the sixteenth day of June, 1873, just one year and sixteen days after the first issue of the paper.
She tells us that among those who contributed in early days to the magazine were Lou Lee Dalton, a sister of Mrs. George Sutherland, and Mrs. Ellen Jakeman, Mary Cook, sister of Ida


Cook, Mary J. Tanner, mother of J. M. Tanner, Eliza R. Snow who wrote a history of the Relief Society which was published in some of the early numbers.
Since Sister Richards' marriage her home has been in the Twentieth Ward in Salt Lake City. Her family consisted of three daughters and four sons. Mrs. Richards' experience is a contradiction to the maxim that boys are harder to rear than girls, for her four sons have grown to manhood while her three daughters died at very tender ages. It was in the days when she was rearing her little family that we first knew her; in the days when her mother-in-law, who lived near her, gained the admiration of all the young people because of her white silk bonnets and capes of crimson velvet and other colorful materials. She used to come to my mother's home sometimes. There was always a benign smile and soft, tender words, for Lula Greene Richards has always been an example of self-control. Lee, the little boy with the curly hair, is now a man of fifty and an artist of outstanding reputation. As Mrs. Richards rocks back and forth in her comfortable living room she has before her, always, a life like portrait of her husband painted by her gifted son. Her son Willard has his mother's gift, that of writing verse. Evan is a dentist and Heber a member of the English faculty of the University of Utah.
It is a matter of more than passing interest that this issue of the Magazine that contains the story of the placing of the bust of