American Literature Coming to its Own Years of struggle, with many rebuffs from the people across the great ocean, is the story behind the effort for the recognition of American literature abroad. At present that recognition so eagerly sought and so persistently withheld for many years is in no small measure realized. During the month of May a goodly number of celebrations in honor of Washington Irving were held throughout Spain. During the month of April the following comments appeared in the Paris edition of the New York Herald: "It is quite true that the memory of Irving, of Fenimore Cooper and of Poe, seems to be more alive in Europe than in our own country. In almost all French bookshops one sees translations of their works." Moreover, these writers were not really scorned by Europe in their own day, for both Scott and Campbell borrowed lines from the American writer Freneau, we are told on good authority. "Tt is a pretty general opinion, at present, that contemporary criticism, of early American writers, including such men as James Kirke Paulding and Nathaniel Parker Willis was far from justified," says a writer of recent date. A new edition of pioneer American writers would perhaps attract a good deal of attention at home, and it would surely be far better appreciated than ever before at home. Many of the members of the Relief Society became acquainted with these writers when they were pupils in the public schools. The members of the Relief Society have followed a course in American Literature just at the time when Americans at home are more fully conscious of its worth, than ever before, and when Europe is willing to admit that America, too, had writers of worth when Scott and Byron wrote. Condolence The loving sympathy of the entire Relief Society organization goes out to Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, of the General Board, on the death of her husband, Henry C. Lund, who passed away, Saturday September 6, 1925. The extent of the sympathy extended to her and the high esteem in which she and her husband are held, was testified by the large number that attended the funeral services, the wealth of floral tributes on that occasion, and the beautiful words of praise and commendation of his life, spoken by those who bore testimony of his worth. Henry C. Lund was the son of the late President Anthon H. Lund. He was a member of the General Board of the Y. M. M. I. A. THE DAY By Grace Ingles Frost. Afar is flung the sable robe of night; The gleaming, golden garment of the morn Trails o'er the earth its witchery of light, And Day from purple mystery is born. The Day whose chariot wheels are twined with flow'rs Close folded o'er a meed of thorny scars; The Day that holds the mystic chain of hours, For man's divine ascension to the stars. The Day! The Day! Whose panting steeds apace, With flowing mane and scintillating eye, Have joined with eager swiftness in the race, That speeds with mad'ning haste the moments by. The Day whose ebbing life tide stains the west, At length in closing conflict with the sun; The Day that finds in recompense of rest, The guerdon of the victory lost and won. EVENTIDE The silence of eventide drifts slowly down, A calm benediction from shadowy hills, Soothing e'en into the land of the sun, Agleam in the far away west. Now here and now there shines a star from the blue Of the stillness that reigns in the heavenly deep, Where night, like a nesting bird covers the earth With peace and the quiet of sleep. NIGHT She does not come as comes the day, In chariot of gold, But like an angel of mercy, With the mantle of peace to fold Close, close around toil-worn nature, While forth from her hand there gleams The sheen of a silent shuttle That weaveth the web of dreams