a very good reason, the battlefield was left unvisited that night. Next morning Alan Seeger lay dead." Like Joyce Kilmer, Alan Seeger wrote his own best epitaph in the poem prepared for Decoration Day. We quote it: "Aye, it is fitting on this holiday, Commemorative of our soldier dead, When, with sweet flowers of our New England May, Hiding the lichened stones by fifty years made grey, Their graves in every town are garlanded, That pious tribute should be given, too, To our intrepid few, Obscurely fallen here beyond the seas. * * * * * Now heaven be thanked, we gave a few brave drops; Now heaven be thanked, a few brave drops were ours. * * * * There, holding still, in frozen steadfastness, Their bayonets towards the beckoning frontiers, They lie?our comrades?lie among their peers, Clad in the glory of fallen warriors. Grim clusters under thorny trellises, Dry, furthest foam upon disastrous shores, * * * * * And on those furthest ruins of hallowed ground Where the forlorn, the gallant charge expires When the slain bugler has long ceased to sound, And on, the tangled wires The last wild rally staggers, crumbles, stops, Withered beneath the shrapnel's iron showers:? Now heaven be thanked, we gave a few brave drops; Now heaven be thanked, a few brave drops were ours." One of the finest stanzas from the pen of Alan Seeger, having in mind the Americans who died in France, reads: "Opposed to their Elysian quietude; Our salutations calling from afar, From our ignoble plane And indistinction of our lesser parts; Hail, brothers, and farewell; you are twice blest, brave hearts; Double your glory is who perished thus, For you have died for France and vindicated us." Some critics say that "I have a rendezvous with Death," is the poem above all others that gives Alan Seeger his place with the best of the poets of the last war. The first and second stanzas of that poem follow: "I have a rendezvous with Death, At some disputed barricade, When Spring comes back with rustling shade And apple-blossoms fill the air? I have a rendezvous with Death. When Spring brings back blue days and fair,
"It may be he shall take my hand And lead me into his dark land, And close my eyes and quench my breath? It may be I shall pass him, still? I have a rendezvous with Death, On some scarred slope of battered hill; When Spring comes round again this year And the first meadow flowers appear."
Charles Divine was a private in the Army, belonging to the 27th Division U. S. A. Before the war Divine was a reporter on the New York Sun, and in leisure moments he wrote verses for Life, Smart Set and various other magazines. Already his verses had attracted some attention, but the war made them conspicuous. He was born January 20, 1899, at Binghampton, New York. He grew very impatient in the military camp, in the U. S. A., and was apparently greatly pleased when his division was ordered to France. In a letter written after the order came, he said: "Being with the sanitary troops, expect to go through the war unharmed and come back and be run over by a baby carriage." The best pen sketches of soldier life, so far as America's contribution is concerned, were written by Charles Divine. Joyce Kilmer and Alan Seeger wrote of the great sacrifice, Charles Divine of actual soldier life. In one of his sketches the poet writes first of the oak trees and pine trees near the camp, and then he says: "Here soldiers sit bent over tubs And wash their clothes with rhythmic rubs. Through leaves, white-tipped, each open space Floods: moonlight, patterned songs, and lace; A silver bush on moon-sprayed ground Breathes music sweeter than a sound. Where beauty is, are loves, desires, Night's vague and vibrant softness fires; Adventures brighten in the South? Where romance calls from full-lipped mouth? And see! The lifted arms hang still, A moment's doubt that guns can kill. Then scrubbing hands forget the night: 'Who's got the soap? The grease sticks tight'." The Lavender Lantern, gives us another sketch of soldier life, which has been described as, "as honest and charming a bit of verse as ever came from a poet turned soldier:" "I wonder who is haunting the little snug cafe, That place, half restaurant and home, since we have gone away; The candled dimness, smoke and talk, and tables brown and bare? But no one thinks of table cloths when love and laughter's there." The war of the American Revolution gave us a group of poets as did also the Great Civil War; and in the output of poetry
that has come to us from the Great World War we have an example of history repeating itself. Any period of time that tries and stirs men's souls as do the times of war is sure to develop a group of singers.
1. Joyce Kilmer was a religious man who believed in the Divinity of Christ. Do you discover anything in the poem "Trees" that marks him as a religious man?
2. Explain the lines: "Today the starry roof of Heaven rings With psalms a soldier made to praise his Lord." Who was the soldier who made the psalms to praise his Lord?
3. Select from Alan Seeger's poem, written to be read on Decoration Day, in Paris, lines descriptive of the mode of warfare in the last great war.
4. What does the word rendezvous mean?
5. Explain the lines in Charles Divine's poem: "And see! The lifted arms hang still, A moment's doubt that guns can kill."
6. What evidence is there in this poem of Charles Divine that he loves nature?
Social Service
(Fourth Week in December )
It has been the purpose of the discussions in this department for the past two years to point out some existing social problems and to discuss some of the principles of study and treatment that are followed by the students of social science of our day. As the closing lesson in this course of methods in welfare work, it perhaps will be valuable to interpret some of the principles and methods previously discussed, in the light of the theory and philosophy of social work. Social work, in its broadest sense, is as old as the history of mankind. The sick and the old and the helpless have always been given some sort of attention and care. The crippled and aged, begging on the streets, dependent on the bounty of almsgivers, are familiar figures in fiction and history. The early Christian Church undertook to shelter and care for the aged, the orphans, the sick and the helpless. Various religious orders sheltered the homeless, took provisions to the destitute, and trained nurses to administer to the sick.
The state, too, has felt some obligation for the care of its citizens. Wounded soldiers and the orphans of soldiers were recognized as a state responsibility even in old Roman days. Hospital and institutional care by the state were gradually extended until it found its most inclusive, and perhaps its most inhumane, functioning in the workhouse of the nineteenth century. The sick, the delinquent, the aged, the criminal, and the orphans were all crowded together, made to care for one another, and all fed on the most miserable fare. In our country the outstanding example was the Bellevue Workhouse in New York City of fifty years ago, which is now reformed into a modern public hospital. Another form of beneficence administered by the state, has been the granting of small sums by city or county units, to their unfortunate members. This relief has been termed "out-door" relief to distinguish such assistance from institutional care. It was for many years a subject for controversy among public officials, whether the policy of giving outdoor relief instead of sending all the needy to the workhouse did not increase the number of indigents. Such an inquiry, superficial as it seems now, was perhaps one of many that led thoughtful persons to closer study of the problems of economic failure and to attempt to find methods that would relieve the world of the problems of failure and dependency. So the first of the modern studies of social problems centered about economic failures and dependency. The most optimistic social economists of a few decades ago were confident that the abolition of poverty was possible by industrial reform. There followed an encouraging era of betterment of industrial conditions. The wage scale increased, working conditions were improved, children were legislated out of factories, and women were given some industrial protection. At this time, legislation was enacted to better living conditions, to improve building and sanitary conditions and to protect tenants from exploitation. Workmen's compensation acts were passed to protect the workman and his family in case of injury or death. Admirable as these and other social reforms are, it was found that the problem of poverty and dependency was not solved. There were still a number in every community who fail to be self-maintaining. So the trend of study and research in social problems of the last quarter century has extended into a more personal study of causes and treatment of social maladjustments. The emphasis of many recent studies has been on the individual, and on the individual causes of failure. The treatment applied has been personal, individual treatment, in contrast with the disbursing of doles or the crowding into a workhouse of less than fifty years ago. The social workers of today, then, realize that the treatment of social problems depends upon a two-fold program; first, upon
a continued legislative program and upon the improvement of the environment, including industrial conditions and educational and recreation facilities; and second, upon a growing ability to understand individual capacities and limitations, and to adjust the individual in a sphere that will foster his greatest development. The early faith that poverty and other social ills could be remedied still motivates much of our social work. It is true that intelligent treatment can often change the social failure into a self-maintaining individual. A tubercular man, if given proper treatment during the first year or two of his illness, can be returned to his place in society and can continue as the breadwinner of the family. Likewise, by investing adequate care and education in a child, who is dependent because of the death or failure of his parents, he can be trained to become a useful and successful member of society. It is also recognized that by providing an income to a widow with a family of children, perhaps for a long period of time, the normal development of this family is made possible. Under such circumstances, the expenditures of private or public funds, is justified, for there are now a great many studies which show that such investments pay the community dividends in rehabilitated, useful, and independent members of society. But as social workers have become more analytical of their work, they have found that providing funds and medical care and vocational training, etc., did not always result in adjusting a failing individual or in steadying an unstable family. The fields of psychology and medicine, in many instances, make it possible to predict whether a person can be expected to be successful. The mental expert can measure an individual's alertness and capabilities, and can direct the type of endeavor in which he is most likely to succeed. It has been found that certain individuals have limitations which they can not overcome, and no great measure of success can be expected of them. If the responsibilities of adult life, of providing for a family, or keeping house and caring for a number of children, is too difficult and intricate, perhaps assistance of some sort will be necessary. It may be advisable to find the man a simpler employment at which he can succeed, or to give the woman kindly assistance and training in the essentials of child care., It has also been found that certain individuals need permanent assistance, supervision, or hospitalization. It may be that some day individuals, now considered more or less permanently afflicted, can be restored to health and activity, but until that day, society must assume the responsibility of providing kindly and adequate care for them?the feebleminded, the maimed, the epileptic, the mentally ill, etc. The task of the social worker is obviously not a simple one. The old method of giving provisions or funds upon request, at irregular periods, can have no constructive wholesome effect on
the recipient. Likewise, to withhold relief because it appeared that the family was careless or indolent, could have no great beneficent effect. The causes of failure are so complex and interwoven, and the road to rehabilitation is such a long and discouraging one, that temporary interest and haphazard giving is a very little contribution. The only care that is constructive is based upon careful study of the environment, history, health and capacities of the individuals concerned, and upon a long period of interested, intelligent treatment. The responsibilities of the social worker are so great and the progress often so slow that the first reaction is one of discouragement and futility. It is true that one individual contribution to the field of social service is infinitesimal, but is this not true in any field of endeavor, art, science, education, or statecraft? The faith of the social worker must lie not in her own contribution to any particular problem, but in the spirit and organization of social work. A society, in which the stronger and abler, feel and assume a responsibility for its weaker members, can not fail, in the end, to make a great contribution to human progress and happiness. It is the social worker's reward to be a part of an organization that seeks to extend human development and happiness.
1. Why was the early Christian church active in caring for the unfortunate?
2. Why was the care given at a workhouse inadequate and inhumane?
3. Why cannot the problem of poverty be entirely solved by industrial reform? 4, Why does it pay to give adequate care to the family of a sick man? Of a widowed family?
4. Why is long, continued supervision of a family sometimes necessary?