Thou art A PRINCE OF UR. 29 encouraging the habits of the dotard in giving wing to thy thoughts through open speech, in the public highway. Bethink thyself — yes — gaze again — is thy memory also getting into age and dotage?" "None but Eleizer, the Damascan, would thus tempt the just retribution of a full-blown man. It is my one-time associate in the khans of Damascus. Why art thou so far from the rich dominions of Japheth?" With the subtlety of his tribe, the Damascan smiled in his short and ruddy beard while he parried: "Hath Japheth relinquished his claim upon Chaldea? Who that loveth and maketh riches or fame shall cease to strive along the banks of the Euphrates or to seek in Ur and Babylon?" "Plague on thee, Javanu; thou dost ever draw out mine own thought recesses into the glare of bright sunlight, while thy purpose lies along the corridors of thy long tongue, like dim mosaics under the rug of prayer." "Be thou not offended, good Javanu, if aught I had to tell thee, it would be opened as a wide chamber. Perhaps it is whim, perhaps a purpose of the gods; who can tell? Certainly not I. But tell me — I hear much talk from the multitude of the sudden return of the Prince Abram. Who is this great and much heralded Prince of Ur? I have heard of naught but him, and bandied with his fame are both hate and love from all classes. None slight, although few agree as to his character or his future." "Not know the heaven-succored Prince of Ur? The friend of the Pharaoh, the instructor of the poor, the teacher of the learned, the admired of all the courts of the world? Who hath not heard his fame? Who doth not either envy or hate, admire or love his very name — the Nameless Sacred Prince, the successor of Shem, the student of the stars?— " "Cease, Javanu, thy tongue is a river of repeated words. I am not ignorant of this great nameless name. But is the nameless Prince indeed Abram? It was told in my boyhood that Abram was hated and sought by Nimrod, Merodach, as the Assyrians call him, for the babe had been prophesied about as the destroyer of Nimrod's glory and prescience; the story ran that Nimrod had killed seventy thousand helpless infants of Shem's descendants, in order to make sure of this wonder-worker, Abram. Was not that true?" "True, my Eliezer, concerning the hatred of Nimrod, and of the destruction of thousands of newly-born infants, born under the tents of Shem. But what was not told shows how truth is masked to resemble falsehood by the half-revealing. The Prince Abram was carried by stealth to the royal abode of his progenitor, Shem, in the city of Peace, Salem, and there reared to manhood under the direct tutelage of that majestic son of Noah. Shem is still 
 alive, feeble and very aged indeed, but still able to administer in the rites of his own religion, in which Abram has been carefully instructed. He returns for the first time in twenty years to resume his own Syrian name — to visit his father's household — and who knows — to make himself sure as to the truth of the rumors concerning the resplendent beauty of his kinswoman Sarai." While the two men talked, the cavalcade had gone far beyond the gate, and had forced its slower way through the crowd which filled every portion of the city's confused streets. They avoided the old portions of the ancient city, with its sinuous, muddy streets, which were littered with domestic refuse and organic detritus, and in which flocks of ravens and wandering packs of dogs performed with more or less efficiency the duties of sanitary officers. Whole quarters of the city were composed of huts made of puddled clay, the low houses of crude unburnt brick, or as moderns would term them, adobes. Some of these houses were surmounted with domes of conical shape, both to make for greater light within and to add a trace of comeliness to the exterior. Crowded and noisy bazaars flanked the open squares of the city at this cool hour of the day, and each trade was located in its own special lane or alley, for such the side-streets really were. The cavalcade rode along the handsome wide street, which was garnished with the palaces and gardens of the rich, surrounded on the outside as they all were, with protecting walls to seclude the private life of the patricians from the rude gaze of the public. Looking down upon this medley of individual dwellings, were the two great temples, the old private temple of the Petesi, Terah, set within his own spacious palace walls on the east end of the city; while the new and resplendent towers of the great public Ziggurat, set upon its terraces, rising one above another, was crowned with its glittering and gilded sanctuary, hundreds of feet above the city proper. The eyes of the Prince of Ur were fastened in growing horror upon this newly glittering mockery. But he only rode the faster that he might gain the seclusion of his own palace ere the noon-hour fell. Within the palace all was bustle. The outriders had brought news of Abram's approach, and slaves rushed to and fro, chamberlains issued hurried orders, officials donned robes of office, unused treasures of curtain and vase were drawn from chests and vaults, and placed on pillars and pedestals in hall and chamber: slaves filled richly-carved vases with the green and scarlet of flower and fern; viands were hastily set out on the rectangular dresser of moderate size in the huge kitchens, in which were several fireplaces marked out by little dividing walls of burnt brick, to accommodate the many pots and pans of various sizes. The A PRINCE OF UR. 31 well which was sunk in the corner of this great kitchen down below the substructure provided the water for culinary purposes. Across the central courtyard there hurried the figure of a slight, but well-built youth, whose light-brown curls were massed in silky profusion above his square brows. He was clad in the regal white abaya or tunic; and his dainty hands and small feet, sandaled with jeweled leather, proclaimed the student or the dandy. "Who comes thus into the palace of the Petesi of Ur?" he demanded of a huge, black woman running the other way. "Hast thou not heard, O Mardan? It is the Nameless Prince, Abram, returning from Salem." "Then why all this flurry? One would think the Petesi himself, or even the great King Nimrod were approaching, to witness all this scampering and delight." The black woman stopped and considered the speaker fixedly. "Jealousy? Or fear?" she questioned, laconically. "Why either? To be curious is to be wise." "Wisdom rarely speaks." "Except with tongue of silver." As he spoke, he drew from his tunic a mass of silver coins, and with a charming, if superficial smile, he filled the open hands of the black woman. She still waited. She at least knew the value of silence. "The Princess Sarai! Canst make opportunity for speech with her before the temple bells ring out for this evening service?" "Easier to seek the Princess Iscah." "That is why I seek her not," the gilded youth laughed softly in his curled and perfumed beard. "Thou hast no sympathy with love; but I can help thee to reach thy ambition." The black woman used still her only weapon with this curled and gaudy gallant. She asked no question. "Wouldst climb the very summit of the Ziggurat, and sit within as Ishtar? Thou wast promised the stars for thy crown, remember, when thou wast begotten in Accadian courts. Why not the Moon-crown?" "Thou art of the spawn which makes women fools and men criminals, O Mardan. Thou art thine own god and thy lust and greed will some day make thee fit associate of Nimrod, thy foster-parent. Why seek me with temptation?" "Thou art the gateway to my love." "Who knows? Thou may'st yet be saved, as may my own soul. We have drunk deep of this Assyrian devil-worship. But love — aye love— that is the great force of the universe." The black woman spoke gloomily, as if her soul waded in torments of uncertainty, and her only chance for surcease lay in the renewal of mighty effort. 
 "The Prince Abram may seek the courts of his kinswoman, Sarai, this night," she replied gloomily still. "The Prince of Ur so far forget his royal courtesy as to intrude himself uninvited into the regal presence of the lady Sarai? Surely not. Nay, Zillah, thy duty is to assist me, not to linger for chances to serve Abram. If thou servest me well, thou shalt succeed and prosper; if not"— the speaker reared his head, shot out his arm, first to the east, then to the west, and then suddenly thrust it towards the earth. The black woman quailed as she replied: "Thou canst thank thyself if the destruction thou dost prophesy for me doth also engulf thine own selfish soul. I will seek the lady Sarai. Be at the Women's Court, at the south lattice, at the hour of the moon-rising." As she spoke, the sudden blare of trumpets announced the incoming of the regal party of Shepherd dukes with the Prince of Ur riding at their head. Instantly, Mardan hurried down to the great gates which gave access to the interior of this spacious courtyard. There were several gateways to the vast enclosure, which included gardens, courts, palaces, barracks, towers and the high towered temple or ziggurat which rose, terrace above terrace, in the northern corner of the splendid enclosure. The two gates opened from the principal facade. On each of the other sides of the palace walls there was only one entrance. They were all arched so low that admittance was not easily gained; all were closed with two-leaved doors of cypress or cedar, provided with hinges, which turned upon two black stones set firmly in the masonry. Each stone was inscribed with the name of Terah, Petesi of Ur, and vicegerent or satrap of Nimrod, king and founder of Babylon. The gateway towards which Mardan was hurrying possessed a sort of covered way in which the soldiers of the external watch could take shelter from the heat of the sun, by day, and from the chill of the night, or from the dews at dawn. This long, narrow, dark corridor was flanked with two small rooms on each side for the porters or warders, and led into the gigantic courtyard which was surrounded with buildings of various sizes and designs. This courtyard was a semi-public place, to which tradesmen, merchants, suppliants, and functionaries of all ranks, had easy access through the daylight hours. On the northeast angle was the arsenal. The far southern end of the court opened into the enclosure set aside for the Petesi and his male relatives. The administrative officers and the large staff who had charge of the various portions of the household and soldiery were located near these suites. The roofs of all the palaces were flat, and all the way around the roofs of the outer enclosing huge walls of the public or official palace there was a broad terrace filled with potted palms and artificial verdure at the corners. Access to this broad A PRINCE OF UR. 33 and slightly elevated promenade was gained by a staircase built between the principal staircase entrance and the arsenal. At the far distant north end of this great enclosure rose a high and graceful private temple, or Ziggurat, which had been greatly neglected in the long absence of the Petesi, who was chief captain of Nimrod's warlike hosts; while the Prince Abram, just now returning, had not been in Ur for twenty years. The walls of the palace itself were of the sun-dried brick common to that rich alluvial plain of the Euphrates Valley, for no stone nor timber was nearer than hundreds of hard miles, and the builders made use of nature's provision, the brick of many shades and colors. The walls were decorated by means of terra-cotta cones, fixed deep into the solid plaster, and these were painted red, black and yellow, forming interlaced or diaper patterns of chevrons, spirals, lozenges and triangles; this mosaic of colored plaster covered all the surfaces, both flat and curved, giving the whole a most cheerful and gay aspect. As the Prince Abram rode under the low archway, his kinsman, Mardan, sprang to his horse's bridle and saluted him with an overcharged enthusiasm that went deep into the soul of the weary wanderer. "Thou Magic Nameless Prince, my dear kinsman, lord of the widened plains of Euphrates, matchless in wisdom, in truth and in happiness, welcome, thrice welcome to the home of thy childhood, to the palace of thy royal progenitor, and to the hearts of thy kindred. I salute thee on thy cheek, by thy beard and by the Seven Stars of the Pleiades." Abram leaned his majestic form to meet the rushing tempest of this unexpected greeting. Too tired, too full of emotion, to discern trifles, the Prince smiled warmly in the eyes of his handsome kinsman and replied genially: "Thou hast grown comely and courteous, my Mardan, since last I saw thy stripling form. Join me this evening, when we shall discover what time and absence hath done for us both." "That shall I do, most royal Prince, but be not impatient. There are many important matters requiring mine attention — both for thy comfort and for the possible return of the Petesi, our progenitor and Lord." "Petesi? Is there chance of his quick return?" "The hosts of Nimrod have this long time been engaged in the final conclusion of the wars in the south country. Each day we cry from the battlements of the city, the Petesi may return this day, and each night we mourn that the day brought only disappointment. Yet another cause shall bring the Petesi, and with him our most glorious Emperor and Master, Nimrod, the mighty Hunter of the whole world." "Speak on, Mardan. This cause?" 
 With a slightly embarrassed air, as if he were treading on delicate ground, as indeed he was, Mardan replied: "Hast thou been so shut off from contact with worldly matters that thou art unacquainted with the completion of our majestic Ziggurat, to be dedicated to the Moon-god immediately on the return of Nimrod from his southern conquests?" Abram's cheek paled, his lips set across his face in stern lines. It was the sign for which his crafty kinsman had been watching. With the intonation of one who would soothe and tame a lion, Mardan spoke softly: "Thou dost know full well that Nimrod hath strengthened his claims to supremacy by allying himself with the nature-worship of these haughty Chaldeans. What matters it how one worships outwardly— if the heart be right within. The God of Noah is not a respecter of persons." "Thou speakest with the tongue of a Chaldean thyself, Mardan. But I will have speech with thee in the later hours of the evening. Thou art still young, and impressionable — it is the fault of too-generous youth. Tell me, how are the ladies of the Petesi's household. Thy mother — the young princesses, Sarai, Iscah, Irit, and their mothers?" "Alas, there is but one of us so fortunate now as to call Mother and receive living answer — thine unworthy servant who speaketh to thee. The others passed to the Land of the Silver Light in the long years of thine absence. Mine own mother is in good health, but feeble, and seldom leaves her apartments for the outer glare of the courtyard. She will welcome thee most royally there and would joy to hear and bear converse with the Prince of Ur." "Salute her in my name, Mardan, and prepare her for my early presence on the morrow." (To be continued.) WORDS OF COMMENDATION FROM A WELL-KNOWN CRITIC AND EDITOR. Salt Lake City, Utah, Dec. 8, 1914. I believe that the mission of the Bulletin has been valuable to the sisters of the Relief Society and has done much good for the cause of the Church. Wishing you continued success, and the compliments of the season, I remain. Your friend and brother, Edward H. Anderson.