CHRISTMAS CAROLERS


The Love Aspect of the Atonement
George H. Brimhall, President Emeritus, Brigham Young University
In considering the love aspect of the atonement, the thought of sex affinity has no place. Filial love, paternal love, love that preserves justice from autocracy and prevents mercy from degenerating into mere indulgence: to this form of love our discussion is confined. In the light of what has been done through the atonement, it seems evident that its purpose was twofold: the proving of God's love for man, and the winning of man's love for God. No one in this day of enlightenment will deny that service is the highest aim of existence; neither will anyone deny that the quality of service is to be measured by the amount of unselfish love put into the service. Unselfish love makes way for liberty, and liberty presupposes the pursuit of happiness; not the mere acceptance of the best conditions, but the yearning for, the reaching out after, these conditions.
Divinity's plan to prove his love for humanity was, first, to make way for humanity, to voluntarily come into a state of helplessness, thus making helpfulness possible. The sacrifice aspect of the atonement is foreign to human sacrifice. The offering of human sacrifice is grievous to the God of Israel, whether it be on a priestly altar, a funeral pyre, or a battle front. The Father neither slew the Son nor aided those who did it, he approved a plan of duty to the death, that higher life might come. The criminality of human sacrifice was proved at the altar of Elkenah, the necessity of it was shown on Mount Moriah. (Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham, 1:1-20. Genesis 22:1-21.) Not human slaughter but psychic unselfishness was the gift acceptable to the God of Abraham. Selfishness in sacrifice makes the act sinful, and they who seek a martyr's crown are among the ones who miss it. Sacrifice without obedience is never acceptable to God, from the days of Cain and Abel unto the present hour; but


sacrifice with obedience brings forth the blessings of heaven. (I Samuel 15:22.) Sacrifice made contrary to the word of God, the counsel and admonition of his recognized authority on the earth, has behind it either faithless ignorance or egotistical wilfulness.
The fall of Adam has been called a fall upward; but it must be remembered that the upwardness of that fall began with the provisions of the redemption. Eve had no occasion to rejoice in the act through which she was banished from Eden until it was revealed to her that mortality could carry over into immortality. Her transgression left her at the bottom of the letter U. The curve upward began when the Christ mission was made a part of her mind content. She and Adam had gone to the bottom of the well and were companions of death. The atonement was the ladder by which they could voluntarily ascend; faith, repentance, and baptism being the rounds of that ladder.
Through the fall the unescapableness of divine justice was provided for. Man knew what it was to be spiritually dead; that is, to be justly an outcast from the conscious presence of his Father, God. And that, too, without the knowledge of any pathway back, and with a keen consciousness of an unworthiness for that spiritual life or companionship with God. There was no room for complaint, the claim of justice could not be challenged, its power to encompass the universe was left unquestioned; sternly he stood at the gateway forbidding the entrance of a hope to the tree of life, yearnings only could pass him by.
Through the atonement the infinite reach of mercy was provided for. Behind this mercy was something more than justice, something more than mercy; it was the sum total of them both, so blended that the strength of the one was unimpaired, and the sweetness of the other unwasted. It was the love of God starting from the heights above and reaching to the depths below. Well did the psalmist exclaim, "If I ascend up unto heaven, thou art there; if I make my bed in hell, behold thou art there." (Psalms 139:8.)
The fathomless interest of divinity in humanity is expressed in the scripture: "For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life." (John 3:16.) No one can fully know what that gift meant, except him who gave it. It was a gift of a Son, a Counselor, a companion Deity, made that God might prove the love of Divinity for humanity, and win the love of humanity for Divinity, and thus increase the love and joy of both. "Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends." (John 15:13.) "God is love." But God is more than love, and yet he is more love than anything else. The love element dominates in him. The godliness of man is measurable by his love of God, subject to the test of keeping God's commandments.