Relief Society Conference Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary The semi-annual conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City, October 2, 1926, with eighteen General Board members and three hundred stake officers and board members in attendarice. Seventy-one of the ninety-six stakes were represented, and the following missions: Canadian, California, Eastern States, Hawaiian, North Central States, South African, and Western States. Two sessions were held, the morning session for general and stake officers, and the afternoon session for the public. At the latter session there were twenty-three hundred in attendance. The music was in charge of General Chorister Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, assisted by Miss Edna Coray at the organ. Special features were soprano solos by Mrs. Edward and Miss Florence Summerhays, a cello solo by Miss Margaret Lyman and a contralto _ solo by Mrs. Viola Pratt McFarlane of New York. Miss Lyman and Mrs. McFarlane were accompanied by-Mr. Alexander Schreiner, tabernacle organist. The ushers for the conference were provided by the Salt Lake stake. In the absence of President Clarissa S. Williams, who was detained at home on account of the illness of her mother, Counselor Louise Y. Robison presided at the officers' meeting, and Counselor Jennie B. Knight at the general session. MORNING SESSION Counselor Louise Y. Robison My dear sisters: We greet you this morning with love and blessing for the effort you have made to attend this conference. I thought a day or two ago when it was so stormy and cold, how can those dear sisters have courage enough to come over the roads over which I have traveled this summer to visit the stakes, and come to conference? And yet I see many of them here. I am sure the Lord will bless you and make up to you for the sacrifice you have made. We regret very much the absence of President Williams, which is due to the illness of her mother. President Williams herself is well, and sends her love and greeting to you. There have been some beautiful things accomplished by Relief Society women during the year. I can think of no better work for our women than taking care of little children in need, little motherless children, and children who have very little joy in their lives. It seems the most Christ-like thing that one can do, for Christ said, "Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven." (Mark 10:14; Luke 18:16.) The call was made in April for offers to care for such children 1 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE ~ 621 during a vacation period, and several of the stakes have responded, and joy has been given many little children. The children were all examined and weighed before going, so that they would not take contagious diseases into the homes where they were to be so lovingly cared for, and they all came back in improved condition. Children were cared for as follows: South Sevier, eight children; South Davis, six children; Franklin, ten children; Box Elder, twenty children; Logan, fourteen children; Rigby, eleven children; seven other children went into several other stakes, making a total of seventy-six in all, who were given happiness and health this Summer. And the pleasure doesn't end with the end of the trip?they will always remember with love and kindness the people who took care of them and made possible for them a beautiful vacation. There have been several changes in the organizations in the stakes since we last met, and we miss some of the faces that we have seen so long and loved so dearly. We welcome their successors, however, with the same love and greeting. A beautiful thing in the work of the Lord is that we can give our very best during our term of service and then there is always someone ready to pick up the load and carry it on. You may be interested in knowing of the changes which have taken place in the stakes and missions as follows: Blackfoot stake reorganized, 'July 14, Mrs. Sarah H. Carruth released and Mrs. Flora F. Johnston appointed president; Box Elder stake, September 13, Mrs. Minnie H. Jensen released and Mrs. Lulu B. Call appointed president; Burley stake, in September, Mrs. Margaret H. Cutler released and Mrs. Annie L. Wright appointed president; Cottonwood stake, May 23, Mrs. Amanda N. Bagley released and Mrs. Vera Wahlquist appointed president; Lost River stake, April 25, Mrs. Ellen H. Lowry released 'and Mrs. Mary E. Black appointed president; Morgan stake, August 22, Mrs. Mary Chadwick released and Mrs. Sophia Anderson appointed president; Wayne stake, May 9, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Grunday released and Mrs. Mary Brinkerhoff appointed president; Eastern States mission, in April, Miss Luella B. Owen released, Miss. Elizabeth Skolfield appointed president; Tongan mission, 1926, Mrs. LaVera W. Coombs released, Mrs. Ada B. Cahoon appointed president. New organizations have been formed as follows: Lyman stake organized in August, with Mrs. Retta Blackner as president; Nevada stake organized September 18, with Mrs. Mary E. Horlicker as president. FEDERAL AID Mrs. Julia F. Lund, Member General Board "Federal aid" is applied to a fiscal system in use in this country since its earliest days, whereby the assistance of the national 
 government is given to the states for specific purposes affecting the public welfare. It is particularly 'used to denote a policy adopted in the last fifteen years in which financial aid is granted by Congress to the states on condition that they contribute a sum equal to their share of the national subsidy, and that the combined amounts be used for the purpose for which the grant was made. Federal aid is often spoken of as if it were a new and revolutionary governmental system. In fact, it is the development of methods used to advance various forms of progress in the earliest colonial times. The 'future may or may not bring a wider application of the method in this country also. Just at the moment, any increase in governmental activity is likely to be censured, and federal aid in particular is subject to criticism. The Infancy and Maternity Act, which is really the provision made by the SheppardTowner Act, is one that is of very great interest to us at the present time inasmuch as it is before us to decide as to the fate of this great measure. It is a peculiar thing, but it is nevertheless a fact, that the guns of politicians should all be turned on this particular act; that the impression should be given, though not definitely stated, that the infancy and maternity act is the only piece of federal aid the government is giving at the present time, that the excuses made by those who favor the continuation of this most vital and important act are based upon one thing alone. Do you hear any criticism of the splendid work done and of what it has meant to the government at large? No, its testimonials are all too great and too defi- - nite to be disputed, but that old; old political trick is being indulged in again, and the opponents are coming back on the assumption that Federal Aid is wrong, that the Sheppard-Towner is an extension of Federal Aid, therefore it should not be continued beyond the present term for which it is in force. And therefore, it seems to me that possibly the most constructive thing I might give today would be a little story of Federal Aid in our government, its historical background, the manner of its operation, and show you what an extremely small part Sheppard-Towner receives in the great multitude of Federal Aid acts already in operation, and, with that idea in view, I shall attempt to give you facts that I want' to give to you, and I shall leave to one far abler than I to tell. Of the administration of the act and its great value as it operates through the Children's Bureau.. This system was brought to America by its earliest colonists. Hence the Republic at its formation consisted of states which as colonies had long been familiar with the system of government grants in aid of education and other local activities, and were prepared to extend this system. Our Federal Aid system has apparently worked well where it has been applied. It has put science at the disposal of the poorest state and given the richest full opportunity to experiment and to lead the way. It has given every state stimulus and help in con- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 623 serving its natural resources, saving the lives of its children, build-. Ing its highways, training its people for industry or for agriculture or for home-making; but it has forced no state to have this aid unless it wanted it. It has helped solve national problems on a national scale. * It distributes the burden of necessary undertakings. It stimulates the states to greater activity, as has been shown by the figures which demonstrate how amply federal contributions are met, and how the state contributions have increased. It insures state interest in the maintenance of economy and efficiency because of the provision that at least half the money spent must come from the state or locality. It promotes local initiative rather than submerges it. Practically all the federal aid acts require that plans for the work be made by state authorities. It helps give a national solution to essentially national problems.. No one has better described the value of such scientific national service than George Washington, who in his last annual message to Congress advocated the establishment of a department, or of national boards, to "encourage and assist a spirit of discovery and improvement," "by drawing to a common center the results everywhere of individual skill and observations, and spreading them thence over the entire nation. Experience accordingly has shown that they are very cheap instruments of immense national benefits." Without Federal Aid, many states would be unable to approach even a decent level in the technical training that is so necessary for the maintenance of the standards of living for our people today. As to the future of Federal Aid, it is rash to make prophecies, but a few things seem fairly clear. One is that the conservation of time and the saving of the greatest element of national importance ?namely, the citizenry of the people, is absolutely dependent to a very great extent on the Federal Aid measures before us today. Federal Aid has from the very beginning been a question of debate, and just what its future will be is still a question, but I would call your attention to the fact that this policy has been advocated by just men and that it has been sponsored by the ablest statesmen of our nation, that this particular act has to do with the preservation of our future citizens?the mothers and the children. Women should stand squarely on this one great measure, that if there must be a cutting in the expenditures of public money and in the activities of the federal government, that the very last act which should be cut or abolished is that which has to do with the mother and the child?that the Sheppard-Towner act should be the very last instead of the first to be repealed. Surely the government of the United States is acting within its judicial powers, and particularly is this measure right, when it merely helps to provide that which it declares in its Declaration of Independence is the inalienable right of every citizen, namely, life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. What is the pursuit of happiness, when there is life without health? 
 THE FEDERAL CHILDREN'S BUREAU AND THE SHEPPARD-TOWNER WORK ? Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary The recent visit to Salt Lake City of Miss Grace Abbott, Chief of the Children's Bureau, Washington, D. C., has created, anew, interest in the Children's Bureau and its excellent child welfare work, particularly the administration of the Maternity and Infancy Act, known as the Sheppard-Towner Act. Miss Abbott, iri an address delivered before the social workers of Salt Lake, complimented the state of Utah upon the splendid record made in the state since the Sheppard-Towner work began. She stated that Utah has achieved the honor of having at the present time the lowest maternal death rate of any state in the Union, and is also among the four or five states having the lowest infant death rate. The Federal Children's Bureau was established in April, 1912. The bill providing for the Bureau was introduced by Senator William E. Borah of Idaho, at the request of the National Child Labor Committee, and other child-saving organizations, and was strongly advocated by practically all national organizations interested in the welfare of children. The bill provided for the establishment in the Department of Commerce and Labor of a bureau to investigate and report upon all questions pertaining to the welfare of children and child life and directed that special attention be given to such problems as infant mortality, the birth rate, orphanages, juvenile courts, desertion, occupations of children and accidents incident thereto, diseases of children, employment and legislation affecting children in the various states and territories. The bureau was given no power originally to do administrative work, neither to make regulations concerning children, nor to create institutions for them. Its duty, as stated, was solely to study and report upon conditions affecting the welfare of children. The idea of a Children's Bureaw originated with Miss Lillian D. Wald, a Jewish social worker of the Nurses' Settlement, New York City, while Miss Florence Kelley, Secretary of the Consumers League of America made a tentative outline of the matters to be investigated by such a bureau. One of the needs most keenly felt by those who agitated for the establishment of a Federal Children's Bureau was that of a center of information regarding all the children of the country and regarding the social and economic conditions affecting their welfare. After the White House conference on the Care of Dependent Children, in 1909, President Roosevelt and the late President Taft both recommended to congress the establishment of a Children's Bureau, to assemble and publish facts with reference to the whole field of child welfare. Miss Julia Lathrop of Chicago was appointed the first director? 1 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 625 of the bureau. This was the first time in the history of America that a woman had been placed in charge of a federal bureau, but Miss Lathrop was well prepared for her new task. She had for many years been a resident of Hull House, where she had worked side by side with Jane Addams and others in the interest of human welfare. She had also been a member of the Public Welfare Board of Chicago, and had been vitally interested and active in social legislation and law enforcement. After nine years as head of the bureau, Miss Lathrop resigned in October, 1921, and Miss Grace Abbott was appointed as her successor. Miss Abbott was admirably fitted to succeed Miss Lathrop, as she had for a number of years been one of Miss Lathrop's chief assistants in the Bureau, having in charge the enforcement of the first National Child Labor law. She also had had early training at Hull House, and extensive experience in social welfare work. Miss Abbott is a graduate of the University of Chicago, and while still a student there she, at the head of the Immigrants Protective League, conducted a successful campaign to put a stop to the abuses to immigrants which had grown up. During her term of office Miss Abbott has been the American representative on committees created by the League of Nations for the purpose of devising standards for the protection of women and children. In passing I call attention to the fact that Miss Abbott and Miss Lathrop have each served a term as president of the National Conference of Social Work?Miss Abbott, in 1924, and Miss Lathrop, in 1919. The Children's Bureau, with its several divisions, during its fourteen years of existence, has undertaken work in a number of fields, but in our brief talk today we can mention only a few of the things which have been accomplished. The divisions of the bureau are as follows: Maternity and Infancy Division, Child Hygiene Division, Industrial Division, the Division of Social Service, the Statistical, Editorial and Recreation Divisions. The first work undertaken by the bureau was an investigation of infant mortality. The Census Bureau had estimated that about 300,000 babies under one year of age had died in the United States in 1912.. What could have been more appropriate, then, than for the bureau to investigate this situation? The survey was carefully planned to cover the social, civic, and industrial conditions of the families studied, and to give a careful history of the baby's growth, with especial attention to feeding. In studying the results of the survey and analyzing the causes of the high infant death rate, attention was naturally drawn to the care mothers were receiving and to the interdependence of maternal and infant welfare. The investigation revealed the fact that, in addition to the great loss of' infants, there was an annual loss of 20,000 mothers. Simultaneously with this study, mothers were instructed through popular bulletins, which were published and distributed 
 by the bureau, on the subjects of pre-natal care, infant care, and child: care; and later on, infant welfare centers were opened in many places where women have been instructed in the care of children, value of breast feeding, importance of consulting the doctor early, etc., etc. As time has gone on, numerous bulletins have been issued by the bureau on all sorts of subjects relative to child care, including health problems of children of pre-school age, mental habits, nutrition, child labor, juvenile delinquency, etc. In the Baby Weeks of 1916 and 1917, and in the Children's Year campaign of 1918, the second year of war, the bureau cooperated with state and city health departments, women's clubs and state councils of defense, in weighing and measuring tests, and other studies of children. These activities all led to an awakening of the public to the needs of better care for mothers and children, and the effort to save lives was greatly stimulated in the United States. In the midst of all this work, those who were directing the children's bureaus became convinced that the government should assist in this great program, and recommended that Federal Aid should be secured. Other agencies as well as individuals and officials became interested, and in 1921 the Sheppard-Towner bill for the promotion of the welfare and hygiene of maternity and infancy was introduced in Congress and became a law. This act authorized a national appropriation for the work for a five year period, a portion of which was to be matched by the states accepting the provision. The administration of the act was left to the Children's Bureau.. The states of Utah, Idaho and Arizona were among the states which early accepted the government offer, and in Utah your Gen- _ eral Secretary had the honor of introducing in the State Legislature the measure authorizing the state's cooperation. The result of the work in these three western states, where the Relief Society has cooperated so effectively with the state boards of health, is already well known to you. In Utah especially, where there is a branch of the Relief Society in every town and hamlet, we know rather definitely how effective the work has been and what has been accomplished. A report from the Utah State Board of Health for the period of, January 1, 1923 to June 30, 1926, shows the following results: Number of Health Centers established, 132; number of examinations of pre-school children, 32,707; number of defects found, 46,506; number of defects corrected, 3,765; number of normals found, 8,149; number of Health conferences held, 1,149. Realizing the benefit this work has been to our mothers: and children, we are very much concerned as to whether or not it is to be continued. The five-year period is practically up and, in both the national congress and in the state legislatures, further provision must be made. The bill providing for a continuance of the work for two RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 627 more years has passed the National House, and is before the Senate to be considered this Fall. It will no doubt pass the Senate and will then be brought to the state legislatures early in the new year. Knowing, as Relief Society women know, the value of this work, it is to be earnestly hoped that every woman will use her influence to have the work continued. Our state legislators should therefore be urged to pass the necessary legislation for the continuance of the work, if Congress provides for it. Self preservation is basic and fundamental, and it is only to be expected that women, especially, will be interested in working for those things which tend to the preservation of their own lives. Race preservation is also basic and fundamental, and men and women should join hands in the interest of those movements which tend to conserve and preserve the children of this country. BENEFITS DERIVED FROM THE COOPERATIVE HEALTH WORK OF THE STATE BOARD OF 'HEALTH AND THE RELIEF SOCIETY (Reports from Cottonwood Stake and Utah Stake) COTTONWOOD STAKE REPORT Mrs. Mary P. Lindsay History and Development of the Cottonwood Stake Relicf Society Clinic': The presidency of the Relief Society of Cottonwood stake, realizing the health opportunities that our City sisters had, decided that the women in the southern part of the county should also have assistance and education along these lines, if pos-. Sible. For almost a year the question of how this work might be put over agitated their minds. The people had cooperated with the Utah Agricultural College in its health program, but the work was of short duration. A committee from the stake board visited the county physician, but was unable to obtain aid. Still undaunted, the committee later visited an assistant county physician who volunteered his services. Infant charts, diet cards, and other needed literature, was soon printed. Later a room was rented, and the first Thursday in January, 1922, the first clinic was held. The response to the work was gratifying, and the clinic was held weekly. At the beginning of the second year, the clinic affiliated with the Utah State Board of Health, being the second clinic to be organized under the Sheppard-Towner provision in Utah. From the Utah State Board of Health the clinic receives booklets on prenatal care, infant care and child care; and feeding charts. A prenatal letter or booklet is also sent to all prospective mothers in our locality upon our recommendation. The names of mothers are mostly furnished by the mothers who bring their children to the clinics. 
 Dr. Beatty and his co-workers have lectured in our officers' meetings and have visited us at the clinic. In every possible way they have given us their support and encouragement. We are also indebted to Dr. Samuel G. Paul, examining physician for the City Board of Education, who has charge of the county school nurses. He has been instrumental in having us supplied with a school nurse during school months. This nurse assists us in the clinic and in a limited way is our field worker. In the homes where she visits she urges the mothers to take advantage of the clinic. She also assists in the preparation_of milk and food formulas. We have the support also of all our local doctors?eight in number?who work in rotation. Two doctors are on duty at a time, and serve for three months. In 1923, the clinic moved from the Harker Building, where the Relief Society was paying $10 a month for the use of a room for two hours on Thursdays, to the City Hall, where we have two rooms free of charge. - In all we have made 793 initial examinations and 2,623 return examinations with consultations, Many of the initial examinations were of pre-school children who came for the one examination before entering school. Many Thursdays during our four years and nine months of service have come on holidays, hence nov clinic on such occasions. We are not working to our fullest capacity, but our desire is to continue in service and to grow in usefulness. Our health activities include, in addition to the clinic, the operation of a maternity hospital known as the Cottonwood Stake Hospital, and I would like to say here that Dr. Beatty has been very much interested in our hospital work. He was present at the dedication of the hospital and pronounced the equipment splendid. He has been our best advertiser throughout the state, stating on numerous occasions that our hospital is a monument to the state. UTAH STAKE REPORT Mrs. Electa S. Dixon, President, Health work has always been an important item in the Utah Stake Relief Society prograni. About four years ago we found that the interest on the wheat money sent to the wards was not doing the amount of good possible, there being such a small amount in each ward, so Mrs, Inez K. Allen, who was then president of our stake, introduced the plan of pooling this interest in order that all the wards might have equal opportunity in carrying out the health program. This plan was unanimously adopted by our ward officers. The first step taken was to provide emergency bundles for maternity cases. These were at the disposal of the ward presidents upon application at the community office, where our social worker is in attendance every day. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 629 At the time of Mrs. Allen's release, we were holding our health conference with the assistance of our local physicians, under the direction of an examining physician from the State Board of Health. We soon found the need of a county public health nurse, so the five stakes in the county (Utah, Alpine, Kolob, Palmyra and Nebo) joined in a request to the county' commissioners to match state funds and employ a nurse to conduct these centers. After getting this plan well under way, and feeling that we were beginning to function almost ideally, through an unavoidable misunderstanding, some of our doctors objected to the method of examination advised by the State Board of Health, and refused to cooperate. They took up the matter with the Utah County Medical Society and persuaded that organization to pass a resolution which practically prohibited any of its members from affiliating with our health centers. We met with them in an endeavor to get them to reconsider their action, but failed. This action caused the resignation of our county nurse, and after having had such wonderful success with our county nurse and health centers in every stake in the county, we were completely upset and hardly knew which way to turn. Having had successful cooperation with the State Board of Health, I went to the Capitol and called on Dr. Beatty, and explained to him our predicament, and he immediately advised the establishment of a county health unit with a full time doctor and nurse, to be paid jointly with funds which he could secure for that purpose through his office, and a like amount to be paid by the county commissioners. This was a real undertaking, and I doubted at first its possibility, realizing our high tax levy, and the many big projects under way in our county, but the more I thought about it and prayed about it, the more important I felt the need of it. We discussed it in council and board meetings and determined upon a plan of cooperation with the other stakes in the county. I called a meeting of the officers of the five stakes and representative women of the county who were active in club work.' Dr. Beatty met with us and explained the plan of a full-time unit. At the conclusion of this meeting we went before the county commissioners, who received us cordially, and promised to give the matter serious consideration. A few days later the county commissioners invited a representative group of our women to join them on a trip to Davis and Weber counties, to investigate the health units there. They seemed to be satisfied, and gave us hope. We made repeated calls on them to keep them reminded of our problems'and the necessity of action being taken. In January of this year they included in their budget an appropriation for the Utah County Health Unit. This was a happy day for the women interested in health work. A doctor and a nurse were selected, and our health centers were again in full swing. 
 We have seventeen regular' health conferences held monthly. From January to September the following work has been accomplished through the county unit: 2,300 cases examined; 560 cases returned; 3,340 defects were discovered in new cases and 699 in old cases. Of these defects the Relief Society alone made correction in 66 cases, most of which were charity cases, the work. Being done in our Utah County Free Clinic, and by our local physicians who are now contributing their services, and supporting us in the work. These corrections, of course, are only a small portion of the corrections which have been made during the year. \The work that has been accomplished in Utah stake alone, which I represent, is as follows: number of defects corrected, 10, and 7 to be done this month; maternity cases (married) 6, full care; maternity cases (unmarried ) 3; major operations, 7. Many of these cases have been supplied with nursing care. The bishops of wards have assisted in defraying expenses of five major operations done at the L. D. S. Hospital. Our health centers have been invaluable in helping us to discover people in sore need of health opportunities. Women who suffered almost constantly and were dependent because of it, have been freed from their ailments and made happy and self-supporting. The defects of children who were ill and handicapped have been corrected, and they have been put on an equal footing with their associates. Besides the corrective work which has been accomplished, the mothers are receiving instructions in all phases of health work.. Through the pooling of the wheat interest we have had funds sufficient to pay for hospital expenses in most of the major operations, our doctors having contributed their services. This is also true in our maternity work, where, in serious cases, with home conditions not conducive to good results, we have placed the expectant mother in a maternity home or hospital, in order that she might have the best possible care. As in the corrective cases, we pay the hospital or maternity home expense for these cases. We are most grateful that our women were willing to pool our fund, which has. Enabled us to accomplish so much good. VALUE OF A STATE-WIDE MILK SANITATION PROGRAM Mr. Leslie Frank, Chief of the Office of Milk Investigation of the U. S. Public Health Service We all agree that it is extremely important for our weaning infants and growing children to have safe milk, and it is just as important that we have sufficient safe milk. There is nothing which can replace milk in the child's diet. Now, if you folks go to your doctor when you have a child that is about to be weaned, and ask him if it is perfectly safe for you to go upon the streets RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 631 of your town or city and buy any milk found for sale, and give that milk to your baby, he would under ideal conditions, say, Yes; because the milk sanitation in this county, or in this state, or in this city is so well taken care of that you need have no fear of any milk you find. - But your doctor says that, in practically no case, for he knows that would be extremely dangerous. We have repeated epidemics of infantile diarrhea, and epidemics of typhoid, diphtheria, septic sore throat, all caused by infected milk supply. Therefore, your doctor will suggest that you have certified milk, if you live in a city that is controlled and governed by a medical commission If you have no certified milk, your doctor may recommend some dairyman whom he has been watching, but most of the doctors will tell you to boil any milk given to the baby, because you are not certainly assured of a safe milk supply. Then again in many cases your own physician may not be an authority on' milk supply, because he has had no training in the subject, as medicine does not imply a study of milk sanitation. You are not apt to know whether the cows have been tubercular-tested; neither can you tell a typhoid carrier by looking at him. You may be one; I may be one: only a careful laboratory examination can tell that, and most physicians are not equipped to make such examinations. Therefore, it is always safe to boil the baby's milk. Where can you buy safe milk? You do not know. That is a deplorable condition, and it is that fact which is causing every year between forty and fifty epidemics of milk-born diseases. During the last three years, there have been three different epidemics in Utah, to Dr. Beatty's knowledge. All epidemics, however, are not milk-born epidemics, and it is not always possible to tell just whether an epidemic is spread by infected milk, or flies, or what. Has caused it. What is safe milk? How can we tell when it is safe? Those interested in matters of milk sanitation are trying to prevent the spread of tuberculosis, typhoid, diphtheria, septic sore throat, infant diarrhea, etc. How can we be sure milk will not spread tuberculosis? By seeing that a veterinary makes a test to see if the cows are infected. This is extremely important for the dairies and for every one who has cows. The tubercular test protects largely. If a city does tubercular testing on all the cows from year to year, it will get rid of most of the tubercular cows. To be safe, however, cows should be tested at least yearly, because a cow may be all right when she is examined, and then a few years later come down with tuberculosis, and in the meantime children have been' drinking her milk. The milk of one cow is often diluted with milk from other cows, so that all cows should be tested. 5 How can we prevent typhoid fever? Most of the typhoid is not from cases of typhoid in the dairyman; but in three out of four cases, it is due to a typhoid carrier, who is a healthy man, but who, at some time or other, perhaps years ago, had typhoid and still 
 grows the typhoid germ in his gall bladder, from which it is discharged and occasionally gets into the milk supply. Men who have anything to do with the handling of milk should be examined to see if they are typhoid carriers. Every man who has anything to do with milk, should submit a specimen of urine and feces to see that he is free from typhoid. In examining all the dairymen in the industry, only one or two specimens a year from each can be examined, and so the task becomes difficult, as a carrier does not discharge typhoid germs every day. However, such examinations ought to be made as a protection, but not as a final safeguard. How about infant diarrhea? I operated a certified dairy at one time, which was absolutely of the highest possible type. The buildings had beautiful enameled walls and ceilings, and laboratory tests were made every day of the milk, and everything was done to insure pure milk. The cows were of a special, purebred Holstein herd. One day when I returned to the city, after an absence of a few days, the chief milker said he seemed to have a case of diarrhea. This man had gone through two milkings with diarrhea, but he said I was out of town and the trucks were waiting to take the milk, and he had to milk. I had been a health officer, and the people expected 100% milk from my dairy, and here my dairy had been dispensing milk which had been handled by a milker with diarrhea! After that, my own babies got my own certified milk, boiled. A milker with diarrhea is not going to furnish milk to my babies without its being boiled. Something beside raw milk precautions must be taken. What can we do? If you are in the country, the best thing to do is to boil the milk or pasteurize it yourselves. Your State Board of Health will furnish directions for pasteurizing milk. In big cities the dairies can pasteurize milk, so in the city be sure to get such milk. Do not buy unpasteurized milk?it is like buying a graveyard. Get milk that is pasteurized and properly pasteurized. The Utah State Board of Health has asked the United States Public Health Service to assist in securing a grading ordinance in Utah, so that you folks in the cities who buy milk, can get pasteurized milk graded, and those of you who live in smaller cities where there are no pasteurization ordinances, can get raw milk graded and boil it. What does this state-wide program involve? It involves, the recommendation on the part of the State Board of Health, that every town above a certain size, pass these ordinances so that Grade A milk will mean Grade A all over the state. Then, wherever you travel, Grade A will mean exactly the same thing. It means also ' that at every grading period during the year, the State Board of Health should have a competent person in that town to see that they are grading the milk properly and applying the ordinance properly. It also means that once each year, the United States government comes in, at the request of the State Board of Health, and checks up to see that the state is applying proper methods compared with other states, so that we shall have the same grading all through the RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 633 United States. That is our national program. What has it accomplished? Ten states have adopted it, Utah will be the eleventh, and about 125 cities have passed the ordinance. It is not a law?it is a city ordinance. (At this point Mr. Frank displayed a chart, showing the improvement in the milk supply in the ten states which have adopted grading programs.) Another big thing has been accomplished in these ten states?the people are drinking about 1 1/2 times as much of this good milk as they did before the grading ordinance went into effect. They have confidence in the milk. It is just as important that children drink enough milk as it is that they drink safe milk. The Utah State Board of Health cannot do this work without workers. It needs, in the beginning, at least one full-time man. One of the big things that the Relief Society can do is to help to send to the legislature those who will provide Dr. Beatty's department with at least one full-time man to carry out this program. In answer to questions from the audience, Dr. Frank said that in order to sterilize milk it is not necessary to boil it for any length of time?that it is sufficient to bring it to the boiling point. Some doctors recommend that the milk be boiled so many minutes in certain cases, but that is because there is some intestinal difficulty, and not because the milk must be boiled that long to sterilize it. He said that it is customary for doctors to recommend the taking of orange juice when boiled milk is used, as the boiling or pasteurizing destroys Vitamine C in the milk. He explained that Vitamin C is not present to any great extent even in raw milk, and that whether raw milk or boiled milk is given to babies, they need something else to supply this vitamin, such as orange juice or spinach juice, both of which are especially rich in this vitamin. It is therefore necessary to give only a small amount of the juice. Dr. Frank said that Dr. McCollum is recognized as the best authority on foods, and that he recommends a quart of milk daily for every growing child. But children must have good milk, of a uniform quality, and therefore this work of grading is being undertaken. Many children do not like milk because they have had a poor grade of milk given to them. RESOLUTION Counselor Jennie B. Knight presented the following resolution, and moved its adoption: Resolved, That the citizens of Utah present at this conference are in hearty accord with the state-wide program for the improvement of milk supplies and the unification of milk control methods being sponsored by the State Boards of Health and Agriculture, and approve the action of the State Board of Health in having taken steps to secure the assistance of the United States Public Health Service in coordinating its milk control program with the national program. 
 This motion was seconded by Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon of the General Board, and unanimously adopted by the Utah delegates at the conference. It was suggested that women from other states who were in attendance, and who are interested in this milk program, interest the people in their sections of the country in this same project. Dr. T.B. Beatty Dr. T. B. Beatty, State Health Commissioner, spoke a few moments on the importance of enough good milk for children to drink. He said that he has found instances in the state where children are being fed on skimmed milk, and are thus being deprived of certain nutriments and vitamines necessary to the development of the child. Dr. Beatty also referred to the reports made by the representatives from Cottonwood and Utah stakes regarding the work done in cooperation with the State Board of Health. He called attention to the fact that any county in Utah can cooperate in the same manner with the State Board of Health?that the Board of Health will join funds, fifty-fifty, with any county, and enable it to have a full-time health center, with health officers, such as have been established in the counties reported this morning. Other stakes besides Cottonwood and Utah have applied, through the Relief Society women, for such an arrangement, but in all cases, they have not been able to secure the cooperation of the county officials to the extent of matching the funds offered by the state. Dr. Beatty said that sometimes he hears that mothers are made unhappy when they take their children to these health centers and have them examined and learn that the children have defects, and they have no money to pay a doctor to correct the defects. It was explained that there is help for such children, as a time can be arranged when these children may all be cared for at the same time, and a thoroughly competent, certified doctor will go and do the work, and by doing it on a wholesale basis, the expense will be negligible. Dr. Beatty spoke of his willingness to help every community in the state in health work, and his hope that the idea of the full time health unit may be. Extended. Guide Lessons for February LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in February) JOHN THE REVELATOR "He was a cousin of Jesus according to the flesh, from his mother, a sister of Mary. This relationship, together with the enthusiasm of youth and the fervor of his emotional nature, formed the basis of his intimacy with the Lord." John was a son, probably the younger son, of Zebedee and Salome and a brother of the elder James who became the pro-martyr of the apostles. The name given him by his parents expressed the thought "Jehovah is gracious" indicative of his gentle, lovable disposition. The title meaning "Son of Thunder" given him by the Savior is representative of his fearlessness in defending the truth and denouncing unrighteousness. Note the manifestation of the two phases of greatness in the following:  "There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear; because fear hath torment. He that feareth, is not made perfect in love. "We love him, because he first loved us. "Tf a man say, I love God, and hateth his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? "And this commandment have we from him, That he who loveth God love his brother also. (I John, 4:18-21.) Observe how frequently he uses the expression "beloved" in his letters to the Saints. (See I John 3-4.) "Christian art has so far well understood the double aspect of John by representing him with a face of womanly purity and tenderness, but not weakness, and giving him for his symbol a bold eagle soaring with outspread wings above the clouds." (Schaff's History of the Christian Church, Vol. I, p. 419.) His second epistle, a letter to an "elect lady," is typical of his pastoral care. John's vocation was that of his father, a prosperous fisherman. He, no doubt, had a home in Galilee or Jerusalem to which he took and cared for the mother of Jesus. He became a disciple of John the Baptist, and following the testimony of the latter became a follower of Jesus. Asa member of the Twelve he was one of three with whom the Savior most often counseled, and of these three John seems to have kept closest to the Savior, and was known as the "disciple 
 whom the Lord loved." He prized this appellation and used it more, often than any other when referring to himself. ? John's interest in the mission of Christ: The proving of his undying love for others, and the winning of the lasting love of others, were most self-denying. John, the closest of all to Christ, chose to make his mission longer, to continue to suffer persecution, to extend the period of absence from his beloved Leader, and to postpone the day of his exaltation, that he might perchance save someone who might otherwise be lost. Tradition says, "When in his old age on a tour of visitation, he lovingly pursued one of his former converts who had become a robber, and reclaimed him to the Church." "And the Lord said unto me: John, my beloved, what desirest thou? For if ye shall ask what you will, it shall be granted unto you.. "And I said unto him: Lord, give unto me power over death, that I may live and bring souls unto thee. "And the Lord said unto me: Verily, verily, I say unto thee, because thou desirest this thou shalt tarry until I come in my glory, and shalt prophesy before nations, kindred, tongues and people.?  "And for this cause the Lord said unto Peter, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? For he desired of me that he might bring souls unto me, but thou desiredst that thou mightest speedily come unto me in my kingdom. "I say unto thee, Peter, this was a good desire; but my beloved has desired that he might do more, or a greater work yet among men than what he has before done. "Yea, he has undertaken a greater work; therefore I will make him as flaming fire and a ministering angel; he shall minister for those who shall be heirs of salvation who dwell on the earth. "And I will make thee to minister for him and for thy brother James; and unto you three I will give this power and the keys of this ministry until I come. "Verily, I say unto you, ye shall both have according to your desires, for ye both joy in that which ye have desired.' Doc. And Cov., sec. 7. John was the only apostle of record at the tragedy of Calvary. He was the last person to receive a commission from the Master in mortality. He was the first man at the sepulcher of the resurrected Christ 'and the first to recognize the Redeemer at the seashore. With the promise of being permitted to remain on earth until the second coming of. Christ, John so powerfully pushed the work of the Master that he became the special object of direful hate and persecution. Failing in their attempts to take his life, they