Current Topics.
By James H. Anderson.
Congress has done little thus far in the present session other than to prepare campaign literature for the coming presidential election. "Watchful waiting" as a policy toward Mexico seems to have about run its course, and necessity is making for some definite form of action. The European war progresses steadily toward the great battlefield in Asia Minor and the Balkans, where doubtless the crucial point will be reached. Abundance of snow this winter has caused some damage by floods and washouts as the snow melts, but the good that is promised by plenty of water for irrigation exceeds greatly the loss sustained. Bargain sales during the new year holidays of 1916 were placed under a ban in Germany, by imperial decree. Let it not be said to the women folks that the war has caused no noticeable effect in Berlin. Wheat is likely to soar in price to a higher figure in 1916 than has been known in the United States in half a century, the European war demands being the chief factor in producing that condition of the market. "Mormon" colonists in Mexico have the choice of leaving or staying there, but it is clear that the spirit of the advice from President Joseph F. Smith is that they would be better off in this country for some time to come. The Teutons and Turks are said to be contemplating a campaign to seize Egypt and the Suez canal. It would appear that for such a scheme it is about as long a way from Constantinople to Cairo as to Tipperary. Henry Ford's peace party which proposed to settle the European quarrel seems to have developed more discord than concord. The Good Book says something about removing the mote from one's own eye before going after the beam in another's. Rabies is said to be threatening dogs and flocks in Utah because of its prevalence among coyotes in Nevada, whence many cross the line into this state. Whether it be for rabies or anything else, the elimination of the coyote is a desirable end. Former President Woodrow Wilson has turned from his policy of no fighting to one of getting ready to fight anybody while his former secretary of state Wm. J. Bryan is waging a contest to keep on the old lines. This is a set-to in which a very large portion of the American people will be genuine neutrals.
A CHICKEN THIEF in Salt Lake City was captured recently, after being shot twice by Mrs. Lulu Bradley, and wounded so he could not escape. Mrs. Bradley detected the thief robbing her henroost. She can feel that after this exploit her chicken house will be reasonably safe from marauders, who do not love such receptions.
Filipino control of the Philippine Islands in two years from now, is proposed by Congress. Since the Filipinos are far behind the Mexicans in civilisation, it would not seem to be a great distance to the loss of Filipino independence when within their own control, and the installation of some other nations sovereignty, if that brief period of limitation is adhered to.
Conscription has been adopted in Great Britain, so far as it concerns unmarried men who are fit food for powder and ball. It has taken eighteen months of war and millions of lives and treasure to convince the British people of the terrible menace which the Teutonic system of militarism inculcates toward democratic peoples, but the issue now seems squarely joined for a fight to the finish.
Prohibition of the liquor traffic has gone into effect in states adjoining Utah, so far as law enactment is concerned, and varied are the devices and schemes adopted to evade it and numerous are the opportunities for the respectable element of all classes in Utah to get together, and with the information of existing conditions at hand, provide for the practical workings of a temperance measure that will effectively rid this state of the curse of strong drink and its attendant evils, whether in the open saloon or the covered dive.