The Prince of Ur.
By Homespun.
"Say you so? Nimrod hath gone to the Pavilion? Then, haste thee, Mardan, bring me my father's wife's royal litter. Nay, Sarai need not know, I must have it if I am to represent this family at the court of Nimrod. And Zillah, thou shalt be my favorite slave. Thy fortunes are made. Gold and slaves of thine own shall be thy reward for all thou hast done for me. Put on my veil, so ? about my head ? now the royal abaya, and now ? "
Off started the litter at last, with the stately princess sitting like a young cedar tree within, her blazing eyes making light even the darkest of the lanes as she directed her slaves to choose the unfrequented ways lest some of her father's servants might be abroad and mistake her for Sarai, and thus give the secret to her family. Off to the Sacred Pavilion, and now it was to the arms of Nimrod, mighty monarch of the earth. To her own wit and her own passionate temper she trusted for the full conquest of the man whom she knew was illy prepared to resist such as she was and could be. Ah, poor Iscah, thy guardian angel hath folded his own abaya about him and left thee sorrowing, as he took his flight to heaven and God. And the royal litter of the house of Terah went on its secret way.
During these hastening hours, and while Iscah was going to her vaulting ambitions, other and momentous events were taking place in the palace of Terah. The slow breezes were creeping from the river bank and swaying the date palms which grew in riotous profusion along the shady, rich plains of the surrounding walls of Ur. The harbor was filled with the ships of Ur, Egypt and Uphas, riding in quiet splendor upon the jeweled bosom of the sun-kissed, sheltered sea which carried all the goodly commerce of this inland empire to mingle and exchange its stores of corn and dates for the linens and stuffs, the stone and the timbers, the gold and the jewels, of those higher lands where nature had been more lavish in her primal gifts. This lovely land of Chaldea was the home of the wheat, which produced two hundred fold and even trebled that sum to answer to the husbandman's call for richness and reward. Her forests of date palms embowered the whole country, laden with their delicious golden clusters, and pomegranates, mixed with the tamarisk, acacias and the broad face of the land one continuous garden. The groups of laborers who were going out of the city sang


hymns of Ishtar as they strolled along in the cool of the Sabbath. The tents of the toilers lay huddled under the brick walls of Ur, or within its shelter, as it might be suited to the laborers. For both huts and tents were easily built and rapidly deserted in times of siege or famine ? and as quickly made habitable again if peace permitted. The low bee-hive shaped huts of clay were crowded against the city walls both within and without.
Near the city gates stood a young merchant, his turbaned head and high cheek bones betraying his Damascan descent. But the lofty courage of his countenance and the clear glance of his dark eyes attracted more than common interest. He was watching for some one, but seemed unwilling to allow any chance comer to discern that fact. So he kept his gaze fixed rather on the great platforms of the Ziggurat, which loomed three hundred feet above the high walls of the city at its northern extremity. He watched with deep interest the signs of unusual activity which were manifest even at the great distance ? for the white robed priests and the dancing girls were easily distinguished from the crimson and the gowned votaries and neophytes who flitted up and down the interminable stairs.
"Whose bird is unloosed, or whose gold is uncounted, Damascan, that thy thoughts are winged to the heights of Ishtar?"
The speaker was one of a throng of shepherds whose brown tunics showed signs of travel and haste.
"The bird is fast, but the gold is ready," answered the merchant whose upstretched arm had caught and held the gaze of the rude Semitic shepherds.
"Methought thy tongue would match thine eyes. Where is the cage?"
Again the shepherd changed the motion of his upraised arm, but so slyly, so deftly, that none of the other strollers or hurrying city dwellers noted what his motions might portend.
"The bird shall be roasted at midnight upon the spit of the gods unless ?"
Again the shepherd leader glared curiously and now eagerly into the eyes of the strange merchant to see if he really knew whereof he spake.
"There be birds and birds," quoth the shepherd.
"But only one eagle," answered the merchant, and before the other could reply he threw up his head and arms toward the Ziggurat and said loudly so that all might hear: "The God Elkanah demands his yearly sacrifice this night. It shall be a human offering in honor of the Nimrod's visit. Shall you not attend, my comrades, on this majestic ceremony?"
"Who gives up life tonight?" asked a bearded old man who stood leaning on a staff near the inner walls of the huge gateway.
THE PRINCE OF UR. 151
"'Tis the house of Terah which shall lay upon his majesty's gracious altar its tribute of loving devotion."
"And the offerings?"
"Three lovely maidens, daughters of the master's chief idol-fashioner, Azzi-Jaama. They are said to be very beautiful."
"And why upon the coals? Why not upon the sacred pavement?" asked the old man.
"They profess some scruples about their virtue. They prefer the knife and coals to rendering up their bodies to the service of Ishtar."
"What fools they! Do they not know the value and glory of the living sacrifice rather than the nameless extinction of the altar?"
"Small use to talk to women when they once decide," and a shrewd but pitiful smile lit up the features of the Damascan youth who answered the babbling questions of those who gathered about him. He evidently knew something of the inner secrets of the cult and priesthood, and he knew that curiosity was rampant on the banks of ancient Euphrates as in the groves of Eden.
The shepherd leader, meanwhile, stood with his band a few steps removed from the crowd, but his ears were very wide to catch the information which he shrewdly guessed was far more directed to him than to the babblers by the city wall.
"And is that all? The three daughters of Azzi-Jaama?"
"Nay, the little suckling babe of that same household, Zillah's son, goes with her mother's blessing."
"The breast of the offspring for the breast of the mother she shall give," quoted the old man solemnly. "It is a part of our divine worship. And who can withhold when the great god Nimrod ? Merodach ? is within the walls?"
The old man was so evidently sincere that the merchant looked at him in surprise.
"And art thou a convert to this fashionable doctrine of human propitiation, my father?" asked the Damascan.
"I bow to the Divine Will. Nimrod hath handed down the lesson of our great Father Noah, and he hath taught us that in sacrificing we shall be blessed. If we desire to be preserved, then we must offer on the sacrificial altar the very thing which most we love. And what so dear as our first-born?"
"But this is a perversion of the ancient doctrine of the Divine Sacrifice."
"Nay, thou canst not talk against the god of Ur, the great Merodach, and Ishtar his queen ? whose very human presence is now within our walls ? out upon the stranger ? push him out?"
A small hubbub arose, as the old man began to hustle the merchant by the aid of a dozen willing brawlers.
"Stay thou, friend, and lift the ensign in my place" ? whispered Eliezer to the shepherd leader, as he felt his cloak


plucked from behind; without much trouble the Damascan had squirmed from under the cloak, leaving it in the hands of his pursuers, and he flew up the stairs beyond the gates before his pursuers could reach the outer wall.
The Hebrew shepherd said nothing as the old man whined garrulously, "A scurvy fellow, and a vile Turanian," and as he spoke, the old man spat upon the ground.
"Art not thou Turanian thyself?" asked the shepherd leader, who stood with his followers a little apart from the masses of people going in and coming out the huge gateway of the city.
The old man looked shrewdly, yet with some fear, into the bronzed face of his questioner; but what he saw in the fierce, untamed, blue eyes of the desert-chieftain must have quelled the answer he fain would have made and so with a rude gesture, he plucked his rags about him and shambled away, leaving the crowd to laugh and mock as they would at his discomfiture.
Presently there rode out of the plains and up to the gate another large group of shepherds, their wild locks falling out from under the encircling kerchiefs, or coifs, their huge bodies erect as arrows, clothed only in the rough tunic of the plain-rangers.
"Whose bird is unloosed, and whose gold is uncounted?" asked the new comer, as he rode swiftly up to the party of similar plainsmen lolling on the ground without the walls. Up went the arm of the first shepherd, and with a quiet tone he replied "The bird is fast, but the gold is ready." There was small need of further talk between these companion warriors and sheiks, but the other asked, as had done his predecessor "Where is the cage?" The first answered as if it were irrelevantly: "The god Elkanah drinks the human cup of sacrifice this night in honor of the god himself who lies in state within these honored walls." "Nimrod here?" shot out the quick question from the momentarily unguarded lips of the second sheik. "Our great Merodach hath lent the luster of his countenance to Ur this night of nights within the year. To grace his own bright festival he comes to light the torch upon the altar of the votive sacrifice." The second chieftain laid his hand first on his eyes and then upon his breast and said in reverent tones "There is but one God in heaven or earth and Him shall we worship both by night and day." The tone was so reverential, the action of the fierce sheik so quiet and subdued that those who stood near to listen from that common vice of curiosity but thought the more of him and laid his solemn tones to rest upon their minds as meaning loyalty to Merodach and Elkanah. The second chief took up his station in the outer walls of the huge gate, and the first party then passed on within the gates and up the many stairs with swift and light steps, leaving their newly arrived brothers to meet and give the greeting to those who should perchance come after. As the first party of shepherds gained the upper landing of the city's terraced streets, they lost themselves quickly and separately in the crowds which were all hurrying towards the temple grounds. Just as the leader turned a swift corner he saw in the distance the king's son coming toward him with light step and perfumed dazzling locks of brown-gold flung wide over his white tunic, just alighting from the steps of a chariot before a walled palace. "Whose bird is unloosed, my friend, that we find you within the city walls on this our first harvest gathering day? Why art thou not drinking wine and offering cakes to other shepherds and husbandmen on this our yearly festal day?" "The bird is caged," said the sheik, a little uncertainly in his beard. He was not without suspicion of his master's foster son, but answer he must, when the challenge rang out from one of Prince Terah's household. "Well, what then? Do not gods require some fowls as well as carrion for their food? What can compare with the neck of the first-born as votive offering on Elkanah's shrine?" "We shall observe the great and mighty testimonial of my master Terah's known fidelity," answered the wily chief, now fully aware of his dangerous position. His proud master looked long and coldly into the fierce eyes of the desert-dweller, but even a prince may not denounce a sheik without some warrant. The pop-eyed prince, with his light brown hair a bit more ruffled through his nervous finger strokings, lifted up his swollen lids and with an insolent smile upon his sensuous face he said coldly "The Prince of the House of Ur may not be altogether pleased to find unbidden guests within his walls." "He shall not have cause to make me unwelcome. I come to add my voice of praise to those of city-dwellers on this most auspicious occasion." The challenge had been flung back. But Mardan was not satisfied. Leaving the shepherd to pursue his way, the prince quickly turned toward the city gates, and taking up his station near the upper stairs, he managed to amuse himself with now watching the motley crowds hurrying before the day was old, or with a moment's ogling of some pretty brown or black maiden as she crossed his path. His patience was rewarded. He was ready to greet the second sheikh as he and his party reached the upper steps. "Whose bird is unloosed, my friend, that you are within the city walls this night?" asked Mardan of his second victim. Again the second shepherd of the plains looked coldly into the leering eyes of his master's foster son, ere he would answer this second challenge then, with some gruffness, he replied: "May I not worship Merodach and Elkanah, as does my master?" The evasive answer but set the ready wits of Mardan to work more rapidly. Was it some rescuing party? But how? Who would go from his father's palace to raise the suspicions of these rude soldier-shepherds? Not Lot although he was the only one from whom Mardan could expect such treachery to Nimrod and his host. Father Terah? He was attending upon the person of the king that very hour?for Mardan had greeted him at the head of his own division of soldiers, standing at guard just within the audience chamber of the king. Who then? Mardan had seen enough to rouse the suspicions of the cunning brain. There must be some plot to rescue the three Cushite maidens from the glorious sacrifice of the coming midnight, or to protect Abram from a possible similar fate. Well, if so, there was not a moment to lose. With fleet foot, he scudded along the narrow highways, and cut across the gardens of the city and through devious side streets, to warn his master and king. "The head of the first-born for the head of the father he shall give," was to be conveniently passed on to the man whom Mardan hated as all wicked men hate their opposites. Abram was everything that Mardan was not handsome, as one preferred the cedar of Lebanon with its powerful limbs and clear branches to the facile delicacy of the willow. Abram was of such commanding personality and genius, such majesty of presence, such graciousness of charm, and magnetic personality that men worshipped him with unquenchable fervour, as some Pagans adored the sun helpless women and tender childhood fled to his arms without invitation. Oh, it was unbearable to Mardan to see the wealth of devotion and loyalty that Abram could attract to himself without the least effort, while he was unable to claim one tithe of Abram's following even by dint of gifts, of carefully studied words, by tactful flattery, or by the promise of favours uncounted. No wonder then, that Mardan was resolved that this sacrifice, which he himself had plotted for these many months, should now go boldly forward. With flying steps he sought the presence of the King. (TO BE CONTINUED.)