Query Box.
Hazel Love Dunford.
I should like to know why I can never make a successful sponge cake. My eggs are fresh and I follow the directions carefully. ?A Reader.
Unless I knew your recipe, I could not give all the information. If I knew your recipe I could better say just what your trouble is. If you are using too much sugar the crust will be hard and sugary and your cake coarse grained. If you are not careful in combining mixtures and if you beat more than necessary, good results will not be obtained. A good recipe for sponge cake is:
Whites of 6 eggs.
1 C. sugar.
Yolks of 6 eggs.
1 C. flour.
? lemon, juice and rind, or ? T. cream of tartar.
Beat yolks until creamy and add sugar and continue to beat add lemon juice; whisk whites until stiff. Combine mixtures by folding in whites and carefully fold in the flour. Bake one hour in a slow oven.
Can you tell me how to wash coloured embroidery so there will be no danger of the colour running? ?Miss A. B., Richfield, Utah.
To wash pieces of coloured embroidery so that there will be less danger of colours running, put a tablespoon of powdered alum in the water and use only the purest white soap to make light lather, but do not apply it directly to the silk. If the lather is of good make, it will come out bright and clear, with no fading or injury whatever, but when the colour runs or blurs in the ground material, the alum will usually make the washing safe. A tablespoon of salt is also good for setting most bright colours and in any case tends to brighten and clear the colour with no harm to the fabric.
Dear Editor: My child has lost her appetite, with apparently no cause. She seems well, but just does not want to eat. Can you suggest a remedy? Mrs. A. V. J., Manti, Utah.
This is often the result of a long period of over-feeding or the use of milk too rich in fat. If in all other respects the child seems well and simply does not want her food, give the food at regular hours. Never in between periods. On no account coax a child to eat, much less force her. No greater mistake can be made. Weaken the food given and lengthen the intervals.
What points should guide one in selecting toys and playthings for an infant? Mother.
The instinct in a baby to put everything in its mouth is so strong that one should be very careful not to give things that cannot be safely treated in this way. Hence, things that can be washed easily and things that are not sharp and that have no loose parts that might be swallowed should be chosen. Please give through the Relief Society Magazine, a recipe for carrot pudding. Mrs. G. R. D., Salt Lake.
Carrot Pudding. 1 C. suet creamed well add 2? C. stale bread crumbs. 1 C. grated carrot. Beat yolks of 4 eggs, add gradually 1? C. brown sugar. Combine mixtures. Add grated rind of 1 lemon and 1 tb. vinegar. Mix 1 C. raisins, cut fine; ? C. carrots dredged with ? C. flour, ? T. salt, 1 T. cinnamon, ? T. nutmeg, ? T. cloves, whites of 4 eggs beaten stiff. Steam 3 hours in buttered mould.
When the Relief Society arrange excursions, they will always invite the bishops, stake presidents, Genealogical Society representatives and priesthood generally to assist and accompany them. It would be much better for the priesthood to arrange the excursion and invite the sisters to accompany them but we can only suggest and hope for this better way. Meanwhile the sisters can certainly plan for their own work, remembering the motto of the General Genealogical Committee of the Relief Society "Provoke the brethren to good works, but don't provoke the brethren while doing so."
The Quest. Maud Baggarly.
God in His love gave His only Son, To teach us if ideals are won. That e'en tho' hearts break Must our dearest and best Be nailed to the cross E'er the end of the quest