OUR DELEGATES IN WASHINGTON.
At the Triennial session of the National Council of Women, held in Washington, D. C., on the 12th of January, that body admitted to its membership the Federation of Women's Clubs, the Daughters of the American Revolution, two powerful College Alumnae, besides a dozen other national bodies of women, thus increasing the membership of the Council to two million women. Our Relief Society, which is a charter member of this Council was represented by Counselor Clarissa S. Williams, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune, and Mrs. Mary M. Howells. The Y. L. M. I. A., was represented by Pres. Martha H. Tingey and Mrs. Rose W. Bennet. Mrs. Williams was honoured by being asked to introduce the incoming officers, and placed on the nominating committee and on the credential committee. In making a report of our work, she followed a lady who spoke of the great age of her society?organised in 1880. Mrs. Williams referred in glowing terms to the fact that this Society was brought into existence through revelation by the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1842, in Nauvoo. And that every principle of intelligence and power now in operation in women's society throughout the world was introduced and promulgated under his divine inspiration as the foundation of this greatest and oldest of organisations. She was listened to in breathless silence, and was congratulated many times afterwards. She told them of our neighbourhood nursing, and School of Obstetrics, of our extension courses of study, our system of gathering and distributing charity which is without question the most efficient in the world. We are very proud of our Society and proud of such able representatives as were present in Washington. The new President of the National Council of Women is Mrs. Phillip Moore of St. Louis; the three Vice-Presidents are, Mrs. John Hays Hammond, Mrs. Joseph Mumford and Mrs. Katherine Harris. Mrs. Roger Bacon, Recording Secretary; Mrs. Harry L. Keefe, Corresponding Secretary; Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, Treasurer; the Auditors are Mrs. Emma E. Bower, and Mrs. Carrie A. Bahrenberg.