Notes from the Field.
By the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman.
Secretaries.
The secretaries of the Relief Society have been very busy during the last six weeks, collecting data and compiling reports. There is no doubt but that the reports this year will be more complete and correct than ever before. This yearly labour, which is so arduous, will be greatly simplified in the future, as provision has been made for a better classification and a simpler method of reporting information. Meanwhile, we desire to congratulate all of the 845 ward secretaries, and the 72 stake secretaries on the painstaking efforts they have put forth in this special labour, and to thank them one and all for the sweet patience they have manifested throughout. We wish also to assure them that though the work has been long and tiresome, it is really educational and helpful to them in the end. Any task that requires concentration, study, and unusual effort, is invigorating and worth while. The General Secretary takes this means of thanking the stake secretaries for the interest and sympathy they have expressed in her behalf, because, as they state, they appreciate what it must mean to compile the final report. Words of appreciation and good cheer go a long way toward lightening work.
Southern States.
Mrs. Grace E. Callis, President of the Relief Society in the Southern States Mission, reports 14 branches of the organisation in the south located and presided over as follows: Cincinnati, Ohio, lady missionaries; Dayton, Ohio, Martha Minke, President; Darbun, Miss., Julia Ball, President; Quiteman, Miss., Lydia Waltman; Atlanta, Ga., lady missionaries; Buchanan, Ga., Lizzie Brannon, President; Jacksonville, Fla., Florence Harvin, President; Memphis, Tenn., Katherine Alexander, President; Chattanooga, Tenn., Fannie Snodgrass, President; Mt. Airy, North Carolina, Sarah M. Chappell; Gilreath, North Carolina, Ary K. Ball; Columbia, South Carolina, Bertha Easier, President; Greenville, South Carolina, Susan Crosby, President; Gaffney, South Carolina, Lizzie Westmoorland, President. Nine of these societies have been organised since last August, and the members universally express themselves as being greatly benefited by the work and study they have taken up. In several of the churches, the Relief Societies have placed individual sacrament sets, and the Greenville Society is raising money to seat the new church, now nearing completion. The conference house in Jacksonville has been partly furnished by the Relief Society, and the Columbia, South Carolina, organisation, which consists of only 12 members, recently purchased an invalid chair for an afflicted male member of the branch.
Scandinavian Relief Society.
It may not be known generally that in Brigham City, there is a Scandinavian branch of the Relief Society, which was organised in the year of 1880, by permission of Lorenzo Snow. The purpose of the organisation was to provide a means whereby Scandinavian members of the Relief Society, who could not speak English, might come together and conduct meetings in their native tongue. Aside from the regular Relief Society donations, this Society established early in its existence an Emigration Loan Fund, which has been taken advantage of by 64 immigrants. There are at present in this Society 32 members.
Glasgow, Scotland.
In a message from over the sea, we learn something of the activities of the women in the war-stricken countries of Europe. Mrs. Isabella M. Blake, president of the Glasgow Relief Society, writes that it is indeed "a time when men must work, while women weep." She says conditions existing in Great Britain have furnished a real opportunity for the Relief Society to do work that is characteristic of the spirit of the organisation. During the last year, the societies joined with the various churches in providing clothing and comforts for the soldiers and sailors, and in comforting those who are bereft. All the spare time of the women has been spent in this good work. Even the little children assisted by making small articles, such as mittens and wristlets. During the silent work, many prayers have been breathed for those dear ones at the front, and hopes have gone forth that the terrible conflict of nations would soon cease. The names and addresses of the workers were attached to the various articles and messages of sympathy and good cheer were sent, added. In many instances, touching replies have come back from the grateful soldiers at the front.
Farmers' and Housekeepers' Convention at Pocatello.
The General Board of the Relief Society recently received a letter from Professor Melvin C. Merrill of the Idaho Technical Institute, of Pocatello, Idaho, informing them that this Institute would hold a Farmers' Convention during the week from January 31st to February 4th. The letter contained a cordial invitation to the Relief Societies of the Idaho stakes to be in attendance. A letter was sent out immediately to those stakes in the vicinity of Pocatello, informing them of this kindly courtesy, and recommending that as far as possible, our members attend the Institute.
Nurse School.
The students of the Relief Society School of Obstetrics, Nursing and Public Health, visited the Salt Lake City Health Department in a body last week. They were very cordially received by Dr. Paul and his assistants, and were shown every consideration. The students were especially interested in the emergency work of the Department, and carried away with them vivid impressions of this very interesting and important phase of the work. Many useful and instructive bulletins were given to the class, on subjects relating to Public Health and Sanitation.
Juarez, Mexico.
Mrs. Lillie Romney, of Juarez, Mexico, in a letter to the General Board, expresses appreciation for the Relief Society Magazine sent to the Society, and for the splendid lessons outlined therein. She states that things in Mexico are in a very unsettled condition, that the old money is practically valueless, being worth only 33 cents on the dollar. The members of the Society, however, find ways and means of extending charity to those in need. Gifts of flour, potatoes, butter, cheese, second-hand quilts, second-hand wearing apparel, including clothing for babies, are continually being made to the native Mexican women, who are sorely in need. The few members of the Relief Society in the Colony have of late spared from their own supply of bedding 32 quilts and several pairs of blankets to the suffering soldiers.
Mesa, Arizona.
Following is an extract of a letter from one of our members in Mesa, Arizona: "I take this opportunity to let you know how much I appreciate the Relief Society Magazine, especially the January number. It alone is worth the price for the whole volume. I am especially pleased with the article on 'Mental Hygiene for the Woman Past Fifty,' 'The Bride's Mother,' and 'Ma's New Year Resolution.'"
Teachers' Books.
A great many orders for Relief Society teachers' books have recently come into the office. We are wondering if it is thoroughly understood that it is necessary to have only one teachers' book for each teachers' district. We have learned that in some instances wards called for more books than they have districts, and that as a result, other wards have had to re-order. In October, we asked that the stake presidents report the exact number of teachers' districts in their various stakes, which they very promptly did and it was upon this basis that we ordered the teachers' books. An additional number were ordered to provide for the normal growth of the Society, and we are pleased to be able to supply the growing needs, but we desire to have it understood that only one book is necessary for each district.