EDITORIAL
.
Vol. III. MARCH, 1916. No. 

The books written by the friends and followers of the Saviour are called "The New Testament." In law, a man testifies to a certain fact, and he is spoken of in legal parlance as a "testator." When the Church was first organised, men and women arose in their prayer meetings, and "testified" to the truth of the things taught by the Book of Mormon, and by the Prophet Joseph Smith. This solemn "testifying" finally became crystallised in our religious phraseology into a "testimony" of the truth.
What is a Testimony?
Testimonies sometimes came by dreams, visions, by the simple preaching of the word, by healings of the sick, and in divers ways. But usually we conceive the testimony of the truth as being that "still small voice" which can never deceive, and which pierces the very marrow, making us to know that this work is true better than we know any visible thing in this world.
The "Mormon" Conception of A Testimony.
The world knows nothing of this. They sometimes speak of "a change of heart" or of "getting religion," or of "being saved." But the burning testimony, the spiritual conviction, which Peter confessed and which belongs of right to every baptised soul in this Church is an unknown mystery to those outside this Church. How is that "testimony" obtained? In one way only, and that is through prayer.
A Testimony Lost.
After one has obtained this pure testimony, can it be lost? O yes, yes. No matter how long it may have been in your possession, no matter how many miracles may have been performed through its agency, no matter how powerful you were under its influence nor how happy, no matter who you are and who were your parents. It is a living thing and subject to the laws of life, growth, development, and progress as well of change, decay, death and dissolution. How can it be lost? In precisely the opposite manner in which it was obtained.
Who has this Testimony?
Who should possess this testimony? Will you not answer by saying that every person who has reached the years of reason should and must eventually acquire that living, burning testimony of the truth of this gospel. It is not enough to think it is so, to hope it is true, to merely believe that it is of God. We must know, not for another but for ourselves. It must be a very part of our being, greater than honour or fame, more vital than life, dearer than kindred and home. If we have not this testimony now, we should be striving constantly here and hereafter, till we do get it. Else are we subject to the changing winds of doctrine?blown by theories, blinded by our carnal desires and ambitions, on the trembling verge of forgetfulness, and that change which begins with indifference and neglect, and ends with apostasy and despair.
The women of the Relief Society are this month celebrating the organisation of this great and wondrous Society, by the Prophet Joseph Smith. They are reading the minutes of the organisation. They are peering into the past for every ray of historic light. They are presenting programmes of music and speeches. The soft rustle of well-gowned women will mingle with the subdued conversation of our modern and up-to-date gatherings. Dainties will be served by delicately clad young girls, daughters of worthy women and grand-daughters of heroines. But if any one of the lovely and gracious women who come together on our Annual Day think that the lessons we study, the means we acquire, the reports that can be made, the refinement and culture that may be in evidence, will compensate any one of them for the lack of a testimony of the truth?how deceived they will be. No matter what other works we may do in this Society, let not the pure and sacred testimonies of the sisters be neglected. President Wells is constantly troubled lest our many other strenuous labours and duties shall rob us of this priceless jewel, this pearl without price, which is more precious than life itself?the testimony that this is the Church and Kingdom of God that Jesus is the Son of the very Eternal Father, and that the Prophet Joseph Smith was the instrument through whom the gospel was again revealed to the earth. After bringing forth the Book of Mormon, establishing the Church with all its power and priesthoods, gifts and blessings, he sealed his testimony with his blood in Carthage jail. With this, we are safe, without it we are lost. Seek and ye shall find, knock and it shall be opened unto you.