The Will and The Way Ida Smoot Dusenberry. A clear, cold mid-winter. — Year 1912. The streets of New York City were thronged with busy shoppers. Decorated windows seemed to offer a challenge to the imagination to even dream of anything more artistically beautiful. Every bell that tolled seemed to breathe Christmas spirit. There were sad faces and glad faces, there were rich and poor. There were humble and haughty, but in spite of prosperity, suffering and sorrow, everyone was affected, because the world was radiant with the joy of the coming Christmas, and the hope of a brighter and more prosperous New Year. From this street atmosphere, of "Peace on earth and good will toward men," the writer, by invitation, entered a large building, stepped into an elevator and was wafted several stories high, and soon found herself attentively and breathlessly listening to a wonderful appeal for the life and honor of a boy, just nineteen. After about one hour of almost oppressive silence, the attorney concluded by saying, "Possibly the seed of this difficulty was planted by the hand of this Little mother who loved him unwisely and too well. Can you sacrifice his life for such misguided love?" Taking his seat, he turned and lifted the drooping head of the fainting spirit sitting crouched beside him, displaying a face drawn with care, wrinkled with sorrow and hopelessly despondent. My mind was dazed, and as I was pushed along by the surging crowd, I found myself back to my apartment almost wholly unconscious of how I got there, so intent was I on the thought of what changes life would hold with a world full of mothers as professionally prepared to direct lives as lawyers were to plead for them. Men for centuries have worked with but one impelling thought which is — professional efficiency. From the highest to the lowest they expect to acquire a logical amount of preparation for the certain work they anticipate following. It has been a world-wide demand, and the only course to pursue to avoid legal and social penalties. Were you ever on a train, and in the middle of a dark, stormy night, had the full realization come stealing over you of your dependence on the man at the brake? Could your spirit have found rest without the knowledge that he was an engineer, with a mind alive for every sound, sight or touch, together with a keen sense of responsibility toward his fellow WILL AND WAY 91 men. Imagine a practicing, untrained physician, an architect or builder, how long would the legal and social world remain passively silent, where money and lives were at stake? Justice demands that sufficient capability be acquired to protect the trusting public. Herein lies the most unprogressive step in the educational career of womankind. During the recent summer months, in an automobile stage, I listened to the following conversation between two ladies: "I am sending my daughter to a finishing school this fall." From the simple little unpretentious creature riding by her side, came the reply: "How lovely, what will she study?" "I am not sure, as yet, I have never asked, neither am I very particular, for the mere fact of her being there assures her an intellectual, distinctive experience that one must acquire to appear in society." I could readily see that "intellectual, distinctive experience," has many aims, ends and objects, and that in the same old way the mind is ever making associations along lines of greatest familiarity, for those three words interpreted meant to me psychology, hygiene, biology, and child study, all saturated and permeated with prayer, faith, and the principles of the gospel. The retarding of the world is due to inefficient mothers, and it makes little difference how much technical educational progress is acquired by womankind, it must eventually return and revolve itself around the same Divinely ordained decree, that it is only effective as it functions in the betterment of the wife, the mother and homemaker. If we want to become real benefactors, we must give to the world examples of "intellectual distinction" in honest intellects, that show moral courage through properly directed will power. Intellectual efficiency acquired for use and not for decoration, as well as spiritual vigor that makes for humility and love of mankind. We have lived to see many wonderful changes in the educational world. Women have not been idle. We have domestic science, social service, mothers' classes, parent-teachers' associations, child study, and child welfare organizations, all over the world, yet there are thousands and tens of thousands of young women marrying in a deplorable state of ignorance, so we must face the realization that the improvement in this important function has scarcely seen the light of day, and the discouraging educational situation is in the fact that there is little perception for the necessity of such preparation. This is not strange, nor is it unusual. A mother can never know the sacredness of her trust, until she understands 92 something of the laws of growth and development of the wonderful human structure devised and given life by God, our Father. For mothers to know the meaning of food and sleep would save thousands of lives, as well as relieve the world of tens of thousands of mental, moral and physical cripples. What does she know about watching for early manifestations of inherited instincts, or of the guidance of inborn impulses? And here comes stealing into the little life, all unconscious to the mother, the early habit-formations, the first steps to scenes above described or recognized and directed, and which mean unflinching stable character. The child's very weakness cries aloud for protection and care. Disturbances of mind and body occur in him with the greatest readiness, his early years are pre-eminently the stage of plasticity, a time of all others when the nerves are so sensitive that whatever happens to them, there is an immediate and permanent change. Every ounce of assimilated nourishment functions, every small bit of waste energy has its telling effect. Here the mother is given the power, but, alas, seldom the understanding, to fashion this little life into the great rhythmical harmony of the whole. Eventually must come a full realization that woman's greatest mission in life is intelligently to contribute her share to keep this harmony ringing true.