Beyond Arsareth Nephi Anderson. (Continued) I found the shepherd lying on the ground at the foot of a large and steep ledge of rocks. As I appeared in view, he looked up at me and through his pain, he still smiled. Then a look of fear came into his eyes and he stared at me with his big brown eyes. He was a boy, a big, handsome boy. A mass of neat brown hair lay in deep contrast against the pallor of his cheek. I unslung my burdens from my shoulder and went up to him. Seeing the fear in his face, I spoke to him, telling him not to be afraid. My voice and face must have assured him of my friendliness, for he put his hands on his leg and uttered some strange words. Seeing that I could not understand him, he pointed up to the cliff, and then again to his leg; and then I understood. He had fallen down the rocks and broken his leg. Oh, how my heart went out to that boy! I loved him from that moment even as I love him yet. At the sight of him lying there suffering, yet looking up into my strange face with a sad, trusting smile, something came back into my heart, something came back into my life, something of boyhood's life and joys, and oh, I was so glad! A little lamb came limping up to his master, but at sight of me, it stopped and gave its piteous cries. The boy looked as it, then at me, and then up again at the rocks. I once more understood. It was while rescuing the lamb from a dangerous position that he had met with the accident. I placed my blanket under the boy's head and then looked at the injured limb. I was unable to do much in such an emergency, but I placed the bones as nearly in position as I could, and then using small willow stems for splints, wound around it strips of cloth. Then the only thing to be done was to get him to other help. We tried to talk to each other, but that was useless. r Though he was a big boy, I lifted him on to my back and carried him down towards the sheep. The lamb limped along by our side. The boy pointed the way which I was to take, and it was not long before we came in sight of a small house, built of stones and covered with a turf roof. I carried him in and placed him on a bed in a corner of the room. His leg must have pained him cruelly, but he was very patient and considerate. I was somewhat faint from the exertion, and when he saw it he pointed to a cupboard-shaped piece of furniture in another corner of the room. I went to it, and on opening a door, found plenty of food. There was bread, cheese, meat, and some other articles quite strange to me, and a jar of milk. I brought some of the food to the low table by the bed and offered it to the boy. He motioned me back to the cupboard and I soon had knives and dishes. Some of the dishes were of metal, and some of light earthenware. The sick boy broke some bread and cut a large piece of meat, placing them where I was to eat. Then he poured out a bowl of milk for me and motioned me to partake. He began mincing a little himself, and I then fell to with a right good appetite. The bread was of rye and barley, and it tasted delicious — and the milk! It was nectar to my lips. I could see that the boy was worrying about his sheep. The sun was getting around again to the north, which in any other part of the earth meant that night and darkness would be coming on. I went out and with very little trouble drove the sheep in close to the hut, where they soon lay down and became quiet. When my companion learned this, he thanked me with a clasp of his hand. I sat there by his couch, he holding my hand and I looking into his face, trying to understand his strange language. I brushed back the hair from his forehead. My touch could not have been more reverential had it been the fair face of a girl. The boy was tired, and slept between the times of greatest pain; and I also must have dozed a little. I realized that I must find assistance. I managed to make him understand this, and also that if he could give me some kind of a note to his friends, it would greatly help me. I did not know whether he could write or not, but he soon convinced me of that. By his direction I found his writing material which consisted of some small pieces of thin, prepared skin, an instrument resembling a steel pen, and a bottle of black ink. On one of these sheets, he soon had something written, which to me was just as foreign as his speech. He pointed out to me the direction which I should take, and with a cheery smile and wave of the hand I left him and proceeded rapidly on my way. (To be continued.) Oh Lad O' Mine Affectionately inscribed to the war mothers of Utah. Annie Wells Cannon. I. You answered the call, Oh. Lad o' Mine, The call to do or to die; You followed the flag, Oh, Lad o' Mine, With never a question why. n. The flag you loved. Oh, Lad o' Mine, Meant more than life to you; And you held it high. Oh, Lad o' Mine, With its stars in the field of blue. You followed it far, Oh, Lad o' Mine, And bravely you saw it through With never a stain, Oh, Lad o' Mine, The glorious red, white and blue. IV. On land or on sea, Oh, Lad o' Mine, A song in the heart of you And a prayer at home, Oh, Lad o' Mine, To keep you brave and true. V. Through strife and struggle. Oh, Lad o' Mine, You held your courage high. Nor faltered once, Oh, Lad o' Mine, E'en when death was nigh. VI. The heart beats lighter, Oh, Lad o' Mine, For the valor you have shown; The stars shine brighter. Oh, Lad o' Mine, For the victory you have won. VIL The victory gained. Oh, Lad o' Mine, Lies not on battle field, But in your soul, Oh, Lad o' Mine, Lies safe the victors' shield. VIIL For a conquered world, Oh, Lad o' Mine, Long and loud the sirens ring; For a conquered self, Oh, Lad o' Mine, The spheres glad anthems sing. THE MORMON BATTALION MONUMENT. The Legislature of 1917, appropriated $100,000 for the erection of a monument, provided the people of the state would raise a similar amount. The commission is fortunate in its chairman, Hon. B. H. Roberts, whose kindling power for any cause is well known in this region. Under his able leadership, assisted by the indefatigable efforts of May Belle T. Davis, an appeal is just now before the people to contribute the money needed to secure the contribution and build a monument. No one who is familiar with the courage, hardihood and suffering, of the Battalion boys, could withhold desire to support this movement which would perpetuate their memory and memorialize the record of their achievements. No matter what opinion some may hold concerning the choice of such a monument, all will unite in answering the call made upon them by their leaders and by the state. We commend the project to all who are now enjoying the benefits derived from the labors of the Pioneers and the Battalion boys. Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon NEW GENERAL BOARD MEMBER Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon was appointed by the First Presidency, December 19, to fill the vacancy on our General feoard left by the death of Miss Edna May Davis. Mrs. Cannon has been an active Church worker, since the age of 14. She was associated with her mother in the editing and publishing of the "Woman's Exponent," which was the organ of the Society for forty years. She was made president of the Pioneer Stake Relief Society sixteen years ago next March, and has proved her sterling ability and loyal devotion, not only in her position as president of that stake Relief Society, but also when she worked for years as a member of the General Board. She is a fluent speaker, a gifted writer, and a wise counselor. Mrs. Cannon has had a rich and varied experience. She is the mother of seven stalwart sons and seven lovely daughters. Although actively engaged in public work since her youth, she has not neglected the finer and better part of a woman's wife. life, for she is an ideal mother and a diligent, loyal Mrs. Cannon has been active in political matters for a number of years. Following the steps of her own famous mother, she has done much for the success of Republican politics in this state, and she served a full term in the state legislature. She was the first president of the state War Mother's Association, and is the mother of three soldier boys. Mrs. Cannon will be a decided asset to the General Board of the Relief Society, experienced as she is in all branches of Relief Society activities, and inspired as she is and will be with the wider vision and broader scope of the position she has now been called to occupy. Her wisdom and poise will be felt and appreciated in the counsels of this Society. Oh TheWatchJowerC James H. Anderson. Eastern Europe is yet without peace, and the rest of the world cannot boast of an excess of the -desirable article, industrial oi otherwise. • Capt. Ross Smith, an Australian aviator, reached Australia on December 10, on an 11,500-mile airplane trip on which he left England November 12. Food statisticians in Great Britain, analyzing world conditions, announce that a great scarcity of food is due for 1920 and 1921. They have good basis for \heir conclusions. Indians in the United States have increased more than 50,000 in numbers during the past four years. Is the significance ofthis trend on the part of the "remnant of Jacob" apparent to our Society? Over 68,000 girls ran away from home in the United States during 1919. Is the fault with the home, or with the school, or society outside of home life? Emma Goldmann, a Russian by birth but naturalized in America, who has been preaching anarchism in this country for more than thirty years, was deported to Russia on December 21. Emmeline Pankhurst, noted English suffragette, was in Salt Lake City on December 6, and recorded a protest against industrial strikes. She says women have as many rights as men, and inquires what would happen if housewives went on strike for an eight-hour day. Many others than women are in sympathy with Mrs. Pankhurst's views on that question. WATCH TOWER 99 The "right to strike" in this country has grown into an alleged right to prevent other people from working, as exemplified by labor strikes in Utah and elsewhere during the closing months' of 1919. Fashion journals in the United States announce that society women are having butterflies or mice painted on their arms, backs, breasts, knees and thighs. Comment is offensive. Earthquakes occurred during the month of December in Alaska, Hawaii, Mexico and California. During the same period the weather was exceptionally severe all along the Pacific coast of North America. United States courts made an order on November 8 for the great coal strike to cease, but the order was not obeyed. The strike ended on December 15, after President Wilson assented to naming a commission to fix wages. Georges Carpentier, the champion French pugilist, who is a single man, was being urged, in December, by certain eugenists, to get married, for obvious reasons. Some people forget that brute power is not the prime requisite for parenthood. Jews still are being killed off in large numbers in Russia. With these massacres going on, Palestine soon may be large enough to accommodate all of the house of Judah that remain in Europe. Ireland is yet seething with rebellion. On December 18, an effort was made to assassinate the lord lieutenant. Lord French, who commanded the British armies in France and Belgium during the early years of the war. Cardinal Amette, Catholic archbishop of Paris, forbids women who are immodestly dressed entering the churches under his control. Possibly he figures that under the "rule of contrary" the women will dress decently to get into the forbidden precincts, and thus improve church attendance. Indians of different tribes and classes were the first settlers of New York State, is the announcement of State Archeologist Arthur Parker of New York, based on the A. H. Dewey archeological collection in the State museum there. His classification of time accords with the Book of Mormon distinctions in their order — Jaredites, Nephites, and the later Lamanites, but he does not use the same names. Italy gets Fiume after all, and even more than she asked at first, notwithstanding the opposition of the American delegates at the Paris peace conference which has caused so much trouble. Paris, France, is described by reputable authorities as being "the loveliest, wickedest, crudest place in the world for young girls visiting there." And this is "bleeding France," for which country much sympathy has been expended. Gen. Felipe Angeles, a fullblood Indian of learning and ability, was executed in Mexico on November 26, for opposing the Carranza government. A few days later, Francisco Villa executed nearly 600 Carranza soldiers as an act of vengeance. Miss Anne Scott, aged 35, of New York, has been elected president of the Bantam Ball Bearing company, a million dollar corporation. She says that she is now "too busy for matrimony"— and too rich for other than a money-lover. Miss Florence King, president of the American National Women's Association of Commerce, and a lawyer, says that in the present age "women must lead men." Mrs. Stuyvesant Fish, New York society matron, cynically inquires, "Where to?" ' Decency in dancing is being urged upon the young people by the Church social advisory board. Where is the responsibility for deficiency in training that requires this admittedly needed advice? Can the fathers and mothers say? Victor Berger, socialist, convicted of syndicalism, and expelled from Congress therefor, was re-elected to Congress from Wisconsin on December 19. Such straws of public sentiment indicate coming trouble in the United States Central West. "The end of the world" named in Scripture often is interpreted as meaning the destruction of the earth — hence many fake predictions; may not the true application of the term be the destruction of the wicked as a necessary prelude to a reign of righteousness? A German savant who is familiar with conditions in Europe figures that within a few years Russia, under Bolshevist doctrines, will be the most powerful force in Europe and will even menace America. His forecast is not without good foundation, in the present trend of society. MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN President Emmeline B. Wells* Birthday. President Wells is the most remarkable woman on the earth today, not only because of her advanced age — she is 92 years old on the last or Leap Year Day of this month of February; she is remarkable, not only because of her long and eminently useful life; not only because she has done many things and has travelled in many lands; not only because she has known and taken part in all the great and glorious movements in the Church which promoted the advancement of w-omen — all these things she has done and many more, but chief of all wonderful things which today mark her career is the fact that she represents in her position the greatest and earliest organization of women in modern times. And, moreover, she herself in large and generous measure truly represents the very spirit and genius of that great work. This is her first actual birthday in four years, and few there were who thought four years ago that she would live to see this day. She has lived to see it. Her will is still as strong, her spirit is as indomitable, and her testimony is still as unflinching as it was eight and eighty years ago. This Society, each and every member thereof, officers, both of wards, stakes, and of the General Board, join in loving congratulations and in continued loyal prayers for her peace, her health and her happiness here and hereafter.