GUIDE LESSONS 367
Leatherstocking has rightfully taken his place in American literature as one of its greatest and most original characters in fiction. Leatherstocking appeals to us partly for himself and partly, like all great characters in fiction, because he is a type of the persons making up the particular civilization that the novelist is striving to paint. Shakespeare's Hamlet, Dicken's Betsy Trotwood, and Scott's Marmion are all great because they interest, first for themselves, and secondly, because they are typical of groups. Leatherstocking is ours. He passed his early life apart from civilization, always keeping in front of the wave of settlement. His life is connected with the subduing of the west. In The Deer Slayer he begins his career on Ostego lake, a very wild country. In The Pioneers, whose time is some sixty years later, the country about the lake had been taken up by settlers, so that the old hunter retreats complaining that he is forced out by the clearings. At length, in The Prairie, which carries us to 1803, a period just after the Louisiana Purchase, we are shown the train of settlers pushing past the forest land into the plains of the far west. In the advance of civilization, Leatherstocking is not a settler, but a pioneer. He is trying to get away from civilization, and chafes because the settler is always close upon his heels.
No small meed of credit is due Cooper that while other novelists had suggested the life of the sailor in such stories as Robinson Crusoe, and Roderick Random, by Tobias Smollett, and Scott in The Pirate, yet he is the first writer of genuine sea tales. In the Leatherstocking stories, Cooper is the novelist of the great stretches of wood and timberland of the waste, and in The Pilot, he is the novelist of the sea in all of its wide expanse. He has created some characters that endure, and literary critics are not slow to admit that Harvey Birch, Pathfinder, or Long Tom Coffin stand worthily beside such characters as Adam Bede and Jeanie Deans.
He was not a master of plot. His plots are not well constructed, and they are very often improbable, but his place as a writer of fiction does not depend on his faults. There is, in his stirring tales of adventure, "dash and vigor," and some of his great dramatic scenes have not often been surpassed. Scenes that have been greatly admired are the wreck of the Ariel in The Pilot, the defense of the cave in the Last of the Mohicans, and the discovery of the body of Asa in The Prairie. Readers of modern fiction will undoubtedly complain that his movement is slow and the material padded. That is the usual complaint of the modern reader when turning to writers of fiction of a hundred years ago. Perhaps it is not entire justice to make these older authors responsible for this fault; rather, we should credit the more modern school with its elimination.
In conclusion, it is rather pleasant to contemplate that while


Cooper did not recover his popularity during his life time, public animosity decreased to such an extent that in 1851, it was possible to hold a successful memorial meeting in the city of New York, at which William Cullen Bryant delivered an appreciative address, Mr. Cooper having passed away on September 14, 1851.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Why might the writing of Cooper make large appeal to the people of the western part of the United States?
2. What would eventually become of the pioneer in our life if the artist did not preserve him? Suggest some other form of art as well as fiction that would tend to preserve the pioneer.
3. Do you know of any novels, since the writing of Scott's Pirate and Cooper's Pilot, that describe sea life?
4. Are tales of adventure as popular today as material for fiction as they were one hundred years ago when Cooper wrote his best novels? If not, how do you account for the change in the taste of people?
5. Through access to books containing selections from American writers, such as Page, and other compilers, or what is better, actual contact with the novel itself, select the account of the wreck of the Ariel in The Pilot, or the defense of the cave in The Last of the Mohicans, and read it to the class.
6. Which five novels comprise the Leatherstocking series?
7. Who wrote Adam Bede?
LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in September) Marriage and its Adjustments (Continued)
Adjustment does not imply perfection. The normal human being has imperfections. He is inaccurate in his thinking, clumsy in his conduct, and he is always subject to temptation. But, in general, he is good, sympathetic, and adheres to the fundamental standards of righteousness. A woman must not expect perfection in her husband, neither must the husband expect it in his wife. A perfect companion we might well imagine would contribute more discomfort than happiness to our lives. "Perfect people too," says Jordan, "would be awfully tiresome to live with, their stained glass view of things would seem a constant sermon without intermission, a continuous moral snob of superiority to our self-respect."?Wm. G. Jordan: Little Problems of Married Life, pp. 11-12.
The home is a school; it educates men and women to better living, but it is not a reform school. A woman who marries a
GUIDE LESSONS 369
man to reform him may be disappointed. In fact, marriage would soon fail if the home were so regarded. The home is a place to live and to live happily. Frank Crane gives good practical advice. He writes: "Remember, your husband is human. If you are to continue loving him you must love him for what he is, not for what he is going to be, or might be, or ought to be. Remember, your wife is not an angel, a divine waif, some superhuman creature of impossible goodness and sweetness, but 'A spirit, yet a woman, too; A creature not too bright or good For human nature's daily food!' --Frank Crane: American Magazine, Nov., 1921, "Twenty Rules for a Happy Marriage." SACRIFICE AND COMMON INTERESTS When young people are married they must not expect to obtain all the joys of the new life without making some sacrifices. There are many liberties and privileges which single people enjoy but which, if practiced by married people, would destroy the unity of the home. This does not mean that the husband may not enjoy a rabbit hunt without his wife or the wife an afternoon party without her husband. Congeniality in their relations requires that they respect each other's social interests. Married life adds happiness to both husband and wife, but only in so far as each contributes his share and makes only reasonable demands. The husband and wife have now become 6ne. True love "is the resolute purpose in each to seek the good, or rather, to seek a common good which can be attained only through a common life involving mutual self-sacrifice. * * * It is the formulation of a small kingdom of ends in which each treats the other as ends, never as means only; in which each is both sovereign and subject."?Dewey & Tuft: Ethics, p. 580. WHAT ADJUSTMENT IMPLIES In this matter of making adjustments during the early years of married life care should be taken not to sacrifice individuality. True adjustment is mutual adjustment. It frequently happens that one or the other member of the union dominates in every respect to the extent that the weaker or less aggressive personality becomes a mere creation of circumstances. The fact that the man is head of the family does not imply that a woman may not have the right to live her own life. Again Frank Crane writes: "There are three ways of looking at a woman. You can look up and call her (with more or less mental reservation) an angel, divine and etherial. * * * It is usually temporary and easily slumps into contempt, jealously, and all kinds of morbidities, for it is in itself untrue and morbid. "Secondly, you can look down on her. You can play the autocrat. You can emphasize your lordship and mastery. And no one but a petty soul could possibly enjoy doing this. 
 "Thirdly, you can look her level in the eye, as your equal, your pal, your friend and companion." Proper adjustment is thus a union which respects the personality, the rights, the qualifications of each other. It is team work where each lessens the burden of the other by keeping up his own end, pulling his part of the load. It is a cooperation in. Which each contributes his best effort, his peculiar power unrestricted by the dominating influence of the other. In short, proper adjustment is one of love, a union in spirit, in purpose, one which grows in mutual understanding as to right, privileges, powers and obligations. It leaves a man as a man, aa woman as a woman, to live as individuals, a full and complete life. "The happiest marriages," says Jordan, "are those where there is perfect unity and identity of view in the great essentials; perfect freedom in non-essentials, and perfect harmony even in difference of view."?Wm. G. Jordan, Little Problems of Married Life, page 25. This means, of course, that they stand as solid as a rock foundation in matters of loyalty and devotion to each other, their children and their home. They are united in matters of religion and in their larger social aims and interests; but in such matters as books, pictures, plays, places and persons, each respects the taste and personal interest of the other. QUESTIONS 1. Give reasons to show. That it is neither reasonable nor desirable to expect perfection in one's life companion. 2. Show that although marriage is a school, it must not be regarded as a reform school. 3. What evidence can you produce to show that a woman who cannot reform a man before marriage cannot do it after marriage? 4. Can you justify Frank Crane when he says "you must love him (husband) for what he is, not for what he is going to be, or might be, or ought to be? 5. What sacrifice does marriage require of the individual? 6. What common interest does marriage develop in return for self-sacrifice which the individuals make? 7. What individual rights should marriage always respect? 8. Explain the meaning of Jordan's statement that there should be "perfect unity and identity of view on the great essentials, perfect freedom in non-essentials, and perfect harmony even in a difference of view." TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR AUGUST Through a mistake the teachers' topic for July was printed in both the May and June issues of the Magazine. The insertion of two topics in the July issue, will, we believe, guard against inconvenience to the associations. The Prohibition Law and the Word of Wisdom 1. Some public officials believe that the majority of the citizens violate the prohibition law by making home-brew for family use. II. Many violators of this law justify their conduct on the ground that the law is interfering with their personal liberty. These persons confuse liberty with license, and jeopardize their own future and that of their children through their blindness to the consequences of their own folly. III. The soundness of the "Word of Wisdom" has been fully demonstrated by scientific investigation. Anyone who would, now-a-days, seek to demonstrate his freedom by committing suicide, would be declared insane., Yet this is only a more striking example of the principle upon which the devotees of so-called liberty act, when they wilfully violate the prohibition law. The wise citizen sees in the law a means of protecting the weak and the immature against temptation. He not only qbeys the' law but also lends the full strength of his influence in enforcement. He regards it as no more of a restraint upon his liberty than are laws punishing theft. TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR SEPTEMBER OBSERVANCE OF QUARANTINE REGULATIONS Disease germs are the most fatal enemies of human life today. Quarantine rules are made to prevent, so far as possible, the destruction of human life.. The second great commandment, "Thou shall love thy neighbor as thyself" certainly forbids conduct that endangers the life of neighbors. The command, "Thou shalt not kill" is not restricted to killing with the sword or other weapons of violence. It applies equally to killing with disease germs. It is the moral and religious duty of every one to take all precautions against contracting disease. If however, these precautions fail the duty is equally binding to prevent the spread of disease to others. Strict observance of the quarantine laws is meant to do this. All cases of contagious and infectious disease should be reported promptly to the health officer in charge of the district, and isolation of the patient immediately established. In case of doubt as vo the cause of illness, the family physician or health officer should be called without delay. Delay may mean increased suffering and possible death, not to the patient alone, but to many others, Choose the service which will meet your needs?Wet Wash, Wet Wash Flat Ironed, Rough Dry and All Finished. CP LAU NDRY Distinctive Work ?? fr ? University of Utah Summer Schoo ist Term opens June 6, closes July 18 2nd Term opens July 19, closes August 25 College courses are offered in the following subjects: English European History Mathematics American History Chemistry French Physics Western History Geology Spanish Political Science Anatomy Bacteriology German apie Hygiene Sociology Sanitation Latin Philosophy Natural Science Art Business Accounting Music Stenography Typewriting Public Speaking Automechanics Domestic Science Physical Education Domestic Art Educational Administration Elementary Education Secondary Education Psychology Graduate courses are offered in French, Spanish, English, Education, History, Political Science, Economics, Business, Sociology, Philosophy, Psychology, Physical Education, Hygiene, and Music, State Welfare Conference of Social Workers, June 25-29, under the leadership of Dr. Edward T. Devine of New York City. Frequent lectures by some of America's most eminent educators, Attractive program of recreational activities?dancing. Games, hikes, excursions. Concerts and dramatics. Fees: One term, $14.00; two terms, $21.00, including student activity fee. APPLY FOR CATALOG fr Office 319 Main St.