[WomansExponent | Vol17 | 1888 | October | Issue: 9 | Title: THE AUTUMN. | Author: E. B. W]

THE AUTUMN.
Ah! this is the saddest time of the year,
Methinks I have heard, that the poets sing,
When days are gloomy, and landscape drear,
And the birds of passage are on the wing;
For the woods are brown and the fields are bare,
And the chill of Autumn is ev’rywhere.

I'll hie me away to some cosy nook,
’Mong the mossy rocks and the falling leaves,
And study awhile “Dame Nature’s book”
And gather a few of her choicest sheaves;
For this is her mellowest harvest time—
The season of sentiment, most sublime.

The hills are crowned with foliage gay,
Rich royal purple, brown, yellow and red;
But the skies are leaden, and dull and gray
And the summer flowr’s are lying dead;
Pale, withered garlands are round us strewn;
Yet a mantle of beauty is o’er them thrown.

 We think of the lov’d ones gone like the flow’rs,
Whose fragrance still lingers around the place;
And pensive and lonely are the hours,
As memorys’delicate lines we trace;
And the sere and yellow leaf entwine;
And lay the chaplet upon love’s shrine.

Oh; fanciful visions so far away,
Over the hills and the mountains too;
Farther and farthar my footsteps stray,
And quicker my heart doth the way pursue;
For the sunlight guides, and the shadows flee,
And the beautiful vista, is fair to see.

And I haste as it were with charmed feet,
While my heart beats high with passion wild,
List! I hear the music so soft and sweet,
I heard when a winsome, innocent child;
’Tis the rustle of leaves, and the sighing breeze,
And the murmur of voices ’mong the trees.

They whisper to me, and I answer too—
Though never a sound escapes from my lips
Yet, I know the message they bring is true
And I feel it thrill to my finger tips,
Ev’ry sense I possess affirms its truth,
And echoes back to the days of my youth.

Yes, the past with its gleam of love and light,
Its sunshine and shadow	its smiles and tears,
Has a rainbow of promise ever bright.
That lightens the path of my future years, 
And my faith grows stronger as time rolls by, 
That the goal I’m seeking is drawing nigh.

But I've flown so far in my dreamy flight,
That perhaps ’tis time to retrace my way;
I fear the present is lost to my sight,
Better come back to the scenes of to-day;
For mortals must deal with the things that are real,
Tho’ poets oft wander ’mid the ideal.

What’s this I’ve been dreaming here by the fire,
While in fancy I flew far o’er the hills? 
What symphony grand did my soul inspire, 
While a magic elixir my bosom thrills?
’Tis night and I’m sitting here quite alone,
And the beautiful visions I saw have flown.

I hear only the wierd and tragic wind,
As it whistles and shrieks and moans and sighs;
Ah, this is the potent power I find
Which brought me the genii, so wondrous wise
That opened the realm of poetic thought
And tender branches of evergreen sought.

These were remembrances loving and true,
Scattered at intervals over life’s way,
The pleasures we shared, the friends we know,
That are fresh and and green in our hearts to-day;
Fragments of beauty from out the dead past,
Which over our lives have a halo cast.
								E. B. W.


[Column 1]
