[WomansExponent | Vol5 | 1876 | September | Issue: 7 | Title: MRS. DUNIWAY'S LECTURE. | Author: Unknown]

MRS. DUNIWAY'S LECTURE.

	I suppose, dear girls, you will all think,
"Well, if I were going to write about any-
thing, I would write it in the season thereof,
and not wait till the circumstance was a
month old, and had been forgotten by every
one except myself!" But I'll tell you how
it is with me. When I am washing, iron-
ing, sweeping, cooking, sewing or running
after a mischievous baby I cannot be writ-
ing; and these former things occupy so
much of my time that I only find now and
then a spare moment for anything else.
	I went to hear Mrs. D's. Sunday evening
lecture, because—my mother said I might.
—I liked it very much too, except one or
two small insinuations which I considered
uncalled for, and which served to weaken
rather than to give vim to the otherwise
excellent speech. She told her audience
that she had milked cows and made butter
in abundance, in earlier days; she had
washed, cooked, plucked geese, taught
school, kept a milliner's shop and raised a
family of boys; she advised the girls when-
ever they considered themselves old enough,
and strong enough, and wise enough to take
upon themselves the responsibilities of
wifehood, to get married as she did. I
liked all that. "But," she added, "do not
imagine that I would have you take FRAC-
TIONAL husbands, as many of the women of
Utah seem perfectly willing to do." This
was one of the weak points which she pre-
sented, and I did not like it.
	What right, let me ask, has such a wo-
man to advise the girls of Utah upon a
subject of which she knows, practically,
nothing, ontradistinction to the teach-

[COLUMN 2]

ings of their own noble mothers, many of
whom have lived in polygamy for ten-
twenty and thirty years? Mrs. Duniway
appears to be a thoroughly practical woman.
I think she should let polygamy entirely
alone until she actually knows something
about it.
	The speaker gave a highly interesting ac-
count of her own personal experience.
she spoke with energy nnd earnestness in
favor of equality of the sexes, in the right
to control property and make laws concern-
ing it. She truthfully illustrated the lit-
tleness and insipidity of the souls of wo-
men who are perfectly content to let the
world move on in its own way, with no
thought for others because all is well with
themselves. This was only in reference to
property and woman's right to vote.
	She did not say as I would if I were a
lecturer, that every good woman has a right
to be married to a good man; and that, as
there are so many more worthy women than
men, it is noble and good for more than
one woman to accept the same man as a
husband. Of course I did not expect her to
say anything of the kind, but I felt I should
like to say it for her.
	I did not go to hear her Rail Road lecture,
though I wanted to very much. I had
been washing that day and was tired; then
I must have taken a long walk in order to
attend the lecture. Still I would have gone,
but that my mother said, "I think you had
better not my dear. I should like to have
you go and learn all you might, but you
have worked hard, and it is not best to
over-tax nature."
	I have learned, girls, that to listen to the
counsel of a good mother, pays better than
anything else.
	A FARMER'S DAUGHTER.


