[WomansExponent | Vol5 | 1876 | September | Issue: 7 | Title: TAKE CARE. | Author: Unknown]

TAKE CARE.

	Autumn has come again. September with
its fair cool mornings, its mild and pleasant
days and chilly evenings is with us once more.
Now is the time when thoughtful florists
and gardeners begin to shelter their tender
plants; cautiously watching for the approach
of early frosts, making preparations to ward off
the same, and prevent all injurious effects.
	And now, oh! anxious mothers, is one of the
times when special care should be exercised
over the bodies and health of the little human
plants which God has placed in our charge.
Do not wait until freezing winter weather
comes before you think of the childrens' wool-
en dresses and stockings. Already they should
be in readiness to supply the places of light
summer clothing.
	It does seem as though enough has been said
and written to revolutionize the world in this
respect. And still there is astonishing evi-
dences of much ignorance and want of thought
on the subject. A woman comes into a meet-
ing house where religious services are being
conducted, and as she enters, the damp, chilly
atmosphere fairly makes her shiver although
she is wrapped in a warm woolen shawl; yet in
her arms she carries a bright, fat baby, dressed
in white jaconet, with bare arms and neck,
blue with cold, and thin cotton stockings
which do not come to the knees! Such in-
consistencies are difficult to imagine, yet as
day by day they are brought to notice, the
stern reality of their existence, and even of
their prevalence, cannot be denied. When will
the people learn, and when will they put in
practice the good they know? Sometimes
there seems to be so much on hand, so many
things crowding at once, that it is almost an
impossibility to bestow the requisite care up-
on the babies. But mothers should always
keep in mind the fact, that it does not require
half the time or half the trouble to take care
of a well child, that it does to nurse a sick one.
If all things cannot be accomplished as a wo-
man may desire, let something go undone.
Let her can or dry less fruit than she intended,
and give the surplus, which would otherwise
be wasted, to her poor neighbors. Let beds go
unmade or kitchen work undone if necessary,
let anything else be neglected rather than the
children. And if by close care and attention
they can be kept in good health and spirits,
let every one carry a cheerful face and a thank-
ful heart, and let no one fret about what has
not been done. or cannot be done.
	Never regard symptoms of disease in a child
as nothing serious, but study how to take wise
precautions against dangerous illness. And
when in the case of a child being slightly in-
disposed, anything ought to be done, let it be

[COLUMN 2]

done at once and not put off for a more conve-
nient time when other matters have been at-
tended to. By saying "take care," we do not
mean to be over anxious and uneasy and full
of undue solicitude all the while concerning
the little ones. Wise care prevents cause for
anxiety, saves trouble and expense, and often
averts sorrow.
	The autumn will come again; beautiful
flowers, delicious fruit and rich, golden grain
will blossom, mature and ripen. But if one
of the children is taken from us, we can never.
have it back while we remain in mortality.
Yet when care and watchfulness have failed to
retain the little being here, there is still con-
solation in the reflection that neglect or im-
prudence had nothing to do with its suffering
or its departure.
	Be mindful of your own health mothers, for
your own sakes, but more particularly for the
sake of your babies. You will lose less time in
taking care of yourselves if you do so, than in
being unable to work if you do not.


[Column 1]
