[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | June | Issue: 2 | Title: MEETINGS AT FILLMORE. | Author: Unknown]

MEETINGS AT FILLMORE.

     On May 25 the Primary conference of
Millard Stake was held at Fillmore, commenc-
ing at 10 a.m., Stake President Mrs. D. Olsen
presiding.  The house was well filled with the
children and parents.  The exercises were well
given, and did great credit to the local Presi-
dents and those who had the training of the
little ones.  The Stake and local authorities 
were present, and President Hinckley in a 
brief speech expressed his great pleasure and
satisfaction with all he had heard; encou-
raged both teachers and children to go for-
ward in the good work, and prayed God to
bless them in all their efforts.
     At 2 p.m., the same day, the Relief Society
of Millard Stake held a quarterly confer-
ence at Fillmore; Mrs. E. Yates presiding;
assisted by her counselors, Mrs. Thompson
and Mrs. Robinson.
     The conference was well attended, and the
reports from the various wards were most
favorable.  All the wards were represented.
     President Yates congratulated the sisters
upon their zeal and good works among the
sick and the needy, and gave much excellent
advice, as did also her counselors, and Stake
secretary Mrs. D. Olsen.
     President Hinckley spoke highly of the work
the sisters were engaged in, and encouraged
them to continue zealous and faithful, that the
Lord might bless them.
     There was a large attendance, and the con-
ference was most interesting and instructive,
an excellent spirit prevailing throughout the
entire meeting.
     At the close of the Relief Society conference
at 4 p.m., A WOMAN SUFFRAGE MEETING was
held, the greater part of the women remain-
ing.  A preliminary meeting was held the
previous evening, when a committee was
appointed to consider and report upon a Con-
stitution and By-Laws for a Woman Suffrage
Association for Millard County.
     On Saturday afternoon the general meeting
was held and the Constitution and By-Laws re-
ported upon by the chairman of the committee,
Mrs. E. Henry.
     The meeting was opened by prayer, the
chaplain, Mrs. McBride officiating; the chair-
man of the day, Mrs. D. Olsen presiding.
The committee retired to decide upon the Con-
stitution, and during their absence, at the re-
quest of the chairman, Mrs. M. A. Y. Green-
halgh delivered the opening address and
stated the object for which the meeting was
convened.  Gave a brief sketch of the struggles
by women for their rights;  quoted Senator 
Blair and others, to show that it was not a 
favor they were asking, but simply the rights
of every citizen to vote for the men who make
the laws, under which they live and must

[column 2]
obey, pointing to the many noble men and 
women who throughout the civilized world
were laboring earnestly and faithfully for the
same.
     On the return of the committee with the
Constitution and By-Laws, they were read and
submitted to the meeting by the chairman, and
were unanimously adopted.  An intermission
of fifteen minutes was then taken, for the en-
rollment of members, to which 45 responded
and paid the membership fee, which had been
fixed at 25 cents.
     The meeting was again called to order, and
the election of officers proceeded with.
     The association is to be called "The Millard
County Woman Suffrage Association,"  with
Mrs. M. A. Y. Greenhalgh as President;
Mrs. D. Olsen, Mrs. Eugene Dalbrook, Mrs.
Melissa Olsen, of Deseret, as Vice-Presidents.
Mrs. E. Henry, Treasurer; Mrs. Lois Hamp-
ton, Secretary; Miss Mary Anderson, Assistant
Secretary, and Miss E. Henry, Corresponding
Secretary, with an Executive committee of
nine, so that all the settlements in the County
are represented in the officers.  The Constitu-
tion adopted is the same as that by the associa-
tion in Salt Lake City.
     Mrs. Greenhalgh again briefly addressed the 
meeting; thanking them for the honor conferred
upon her, and urging upon them the necessity
of unity, for in this only is strength, which in
the end must prevail.
     Mrs. D. Olsen read a very interesting essay,
subject, "Woman's Right to Vote and Her
Ability to use It."
     Mrs. Yates, in a neat and interesting speech,
spoke forcibly upon the subject of "Woman,
Her Labors, and Her Ability, Together With
Her Present Disabilities," and called the at-
tention of the meeting to the work which had
been done and is still being done, by noble
men and women in the cause of freedom and
of right.
     The meeting was a success, all appearing
satisfied with the choice of officers, and the
proceedings generally.
     The meeting terminated at 6 p.m., and was
closed by prayer by Mrs. D. Olsen.
				M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.


