[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | June | Issue: 2 | Title: FRONT_MATTER | Author: Unknown]

VOL. 18.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1889.	NO. 2.


CONTENTS.

	From a Far Off Sister—M. L. S. Hephzibah—
A Story. The First of June—The Standard.
	EDITORIAL: This and That. The EXPONENT'S
Birthday—Augusta Joyce Crocheron. Primary at
Mill Creek.
	Suffrage Meeting—E. Pingree. Sericulture—
M. A. Till. Words to Mothers—A Mother.
Envy—Miss Aggie Campbell.
	Relief Society St. Joseph—W. East. Meet-
ings at Fillmore—M. A. Y. Greenhalgh. Ad-
dress to Bishop Atwood—Dr. E. S. Barney. Mrs.
Alder's Address. Sandwich Island Letter—
Lucy M. King. A Progression Backwards—The
Standard. Miscellaneous. Obituary.
	POETRY: June---H. F. Thomas.  Woman's
Suffrage---J. P. M. Farnsworth. A Missionary--S.


JUNE
Thou art here with thy garland of roses;
	Thou art here once agnin with thy song;
Thou hast brought back the blue sky and sunshine
	The days so exquisite and long.

Thou hast called back the birds wtth their music,
	Arrayed the old forest anew,
Hast brought back the lingering twilight,
	Begemmed the sweet morning with dew.

Brought back a new pleasure in living,
	The richness of life, and the bliss;
And yet amid all the glad beauty,
	There is something, still something we miss.

O June, with thy garland of roses,
	We bid thee farewell without pain,
For thou bringest not back the glad hours,
	The heart thrills we long for in vain.

There's a silence we long to have broken,
	A stillness amid all the song;
A voiceless something reminding
	Of days that forever are gone.

There are chords we miss out of the music,
	There is something gone out of the hours;
A brightness we miss from the sunshine,
	A fragrance we miss from the flowers.

Farewell, sweetest month of the summer,
	Bright gem in the swift passing years;
We are glad for thy coming and going,
	Though gladness is mingled with tears.

For we know there will come a glad summer
	And a June that is fairer than this,
Where the "lost chords" will swell the glad music.
	And the "missing" will make up the hliss.
						MRS. H. F. THOMAS.
Hearth ond Hall.


[Column 1]
