[WomansExponent | Vol18 | 1889 | June | Issue: 2 | Title: PRIMARY AT MILL CREEK. | Author: Unknown]

PRIMARY AT MILL CREEK.

	On Tuesday June 4th, we had the pleasure of a
visit to the Primary Associations of Mill Creek
Ward, the four districts having come together, as
is their usual custom to hold an annual meeting.
There were present of visitors President Ellen C.
Clawson and her Counselor Mrs. C. Cobb also Dr.
R. B. Pratt. The meeting house presented an
inviting appearance with the beautiful children in
summer attire, and the vases filled with roses and
fragrant flowers from the field and garden. The
exercises were varied and a credit to the Associa-
tion. Each President had charge of the children
from her own district. The meeting opened with
singing, "All nature invites her praise to God."
Prayer by Elder Phillip Carlisle, singing, "Nearer
my Savior to Thee." Minutes read by the Secre-
tary and approved, also the yearly report. Pro-
gramme first district Mrs. Ann Lemon presiding;
Gertrude Cook, Washington Lemon and Mary
Fuller each gave a recitation, singing by all the
children "The Word of Wisdom," President
Clawson spoke a few words on this subject. Pro-
gramme second district, Mrs. McAllister presid-
ing exercises as follows: Lizzie Bowden, recita-
tion, "Annie and Willie's Prayer," Celia Jen-
son, Earnest Jenson recitation, song by several
girls. Rhoda Ann Boam recitation, Etta Jenson
essay on "Modesty." Song several little girls
"Sabbath  Day." Robie Hamilton, Arthur
Williams, Bella Jenson each a recitation, instru-
mental music by one of the girls, song "The

[Column 2]

Lingering Lover" Ethel Gertrude Park. One of the
Counselors to Mrs. Mary McAllister, Mrs. Cecelia
Sutherland nee Samuels was honorably released
on account of moving from the ward, and a vote
of thanks given her for faithful performance of
duty; Mrs. Jane Ann Park was appointed
Treasurer in the place of Mrs. Mary Samuels, who
was also honorably released from the position.
Singing and benediction closed the morning exer-
cises. Ample refreshments had been prepared in
the vestry, and the noon hour was profitably spent
in general conversation and the meeting of sisters
and friends socially.
	Afternoon session: opened by singing "Love
At Home," prayer by Elder Sorenson, President
Y. M. Association at Mendon; song, "The
World's Jubilee." Programme third district, Mrs.
Frances Hanson, and Mrs. Mary Ann Birch;
Vivian and Ginevra Hendrickson sang "Bright
Smiling Morning," George and John Home,
dialogue, little Mary Bess, song "I had a little
letter," Vilate Morgan and Maud White, dialogue,
entitled "Jennie and Carrie," Gertie Winder song
"Good Night." Mrs. Cobb presented the name
of Mrs. Anzina Peterson to fill the place made
vacant by the resignation of Mrs. Celestia Hanson
who had moved away. Mrs. Peterson was
unanimously sustained and Mrs. Hanson given
a vote of thanks by the children; Mrs. Cobb
afterwards made some very appropriate remarks
on order, obedience and the result of the same.
Bible questions and answers by Roy White and
Birdie Clyde, Lottie Fowler and Mary Fairborne
dialogue, Pearl Carlisle, song. President Hanson
stated that they had intended to have had a manu-
script paper prepared, but had not succeeded in
getting it into shape, however some of the articles
sent in for it, were read by the secretary, Miss
Belle White. Mrs. Louisa Snedekar sent in her
resignation as secretary, which was accepted and
Miss Anna Bell was sustained to fill the position
of secretary. Brief remarks suitable to the occa-
sion and many instructions were made by Dr. R.
B. Pratt, Pres. E. C.Clawson and E. B. Wells. The
meeting was adjourned with singing and prayer
which was offered by Mrs; Elizabeth Hill, Presi-
dent Relief Society. Morning session minutes
were taken by Miss Nellie Carlisle, afternoon
session Miss Belle White. Both these young wo-
men have been very efficient helps in the Primary
Association. Would there were more of the girls
in Zion would follow this example than there are,
to come forward and render such able assistance
with the little ones in teaching them the ways of
the Lord.


