[Vol34 | December 1947 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: The Annual General Pickering]

The Annual General Relief Society Conference Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer October 2 and 3, 1947 HE annual general Relief Society Conference for 1947 was held Wednesday and Thursday, October 1 and 2, at Salt Lake City, Utah, with President Belle S. Spafford presiding. There were three sessions for officers, two on Wednesday and one on Thursday morning, in the Assembly Hall. The general session was held in the Tabernacle on 'Thursday afternoon. A Singing Mothers Centennial Concert, Relief Society's official contribution to the Utah State Centennial celebration, was held in the Tabernacle, Wednesday at 8:15 p. M. A chorus of more than 500 singers, from the following stakes, participated in the program under the direction of Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen of the General Board: Ben Lomond, Big Cottonwood, Bonneville, Cottonwood, Davis, East Jordan, East Mill Creek, East Provo, Emigration, Ensign, Farr West, Granite, Grant, Grantsville, Highland, Hillside, Lake View, Liberty, Mt. Jordan, Mt. Ogden, North Davis, North Jordan, North Weber, Ogden, Oquirth, Park, Pioneer, Provo, Riverside, Salt Lake, South Davis, South Ogden, South Salt Lake, Sugar House, Temple View, Tooele, Utah, Weber, West Jordan, and West Utah. Brother Frank W. Asper accompanied the Page 804
Singing Mothers at the organ and rendered two organ solos. Sister Arta Ballif was narrator of the script written by Sister Vesta P. Crawford. Sister Katherine Hess Peterson played a violin solo. A reception for stake and mission officers and invited guests was held Thursday, October 2, in the Lafayette Ballroom of the Hotel Utah from eight to ten P. M. The attendance at the conference was the largest at any Relief Society conference held to date, the officers meetings completely filling the Assembly Hall. President George Albert Smith attended the first session of the conference and gave the workers his blessing. The general session, which filled the Tabernacle, was especially significant. President David O. McKay paid tribute to the women of the Church, past and present. At this session President Spafford, upon authorization from the First Presidency, presented the plan for financing a Relief Society building, the erection of which was unanimously approved at the general Relief Society conference in October 1945. The fundraising plan, as adopted, commenced October 2. During President Spafford's talk the first color drawing of the building was placed upon an easel at the pulpit where all could see it.
THE ANNUAL GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
At the officers meeting Thursday morning, President Spafford announced the resignation of Sister Gertrude R. Garff, Second Counselor in the General Presidency, due to increased home responsibilities with the coming of her fourth child, and the appointment of Sister Velma N. Simonsen, a member of the Board since April 1945, as the new second counselor.
Both made brief talks, expressing their love for Relief Society work. Elder Marion G. Romney, Assistant Managing Director of the Church Welfare Committee, addressed this session on "The Joys of Welfare Service," which was published in the November issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The Presiding Bishopric and President Antoine R.
Ivins of the First Council of Seventy were present at the general session Thursday, and members of the Church Welfare Committee and representatives of the auxiliary organizations attended the various sessions. SPECIALLY featured at the officers meeting were the demonstrations of a theology class lesson; a visiting teachers meeting; a fashion show, in which representatives from ten stakes modeled clothing made by Relief Society members; a social science department demonstration entitled "We Found the Way," emphasized the need for proper family training. At the afternoon session Wednesday, Sister Vesta P. Crawford, new associate editor of the Magazine, was introduced, and in 805 recognition of the diamond jubilee of the Latter-day Saint woman's publication, a commemorative skit was presented in which the six women who have served as past editors were impersonated and honored. A separate departmental meeting for secretaries was held in Barratt Hall. The music for the conference was unusually beautiful. At the Assembly Hall, Sister Beulah Huish Sadleir sang a lovely solo, and Lily M. Priestley, at the organ, played beautiful and appropriate prelude and postlude selections. At the general session in the Tabernacle, a chorus of Singing Mothers from the twenty-nine stakes in the Salt Lake and Jordan Valley regions and from the Provo, East Provo, Utah, and West Utah Stakes furnished the music. For the first two sessions of the general Church conference the following day, October 3, a Singing Mothers chorus from the Alpine, Kolob, Lehi, Nebo, Orem, Palmyra, Sharon, and Timpanogos Stakes furnished the music.
Thus a total of more than one thousand Singing Mothers, under the direction of Sister Madsen, made a notable artistic and spiritual contribution to the Relief Society and general Church conferences. All the stakes of the Church and nine missions were represented at the conference. The mission presidents of Relief Society in Continental United States did not attend | the conference this year, due to unusually heavy responsibilities in their respective fields.