[Vol34 | December 1947 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Article | Title: Social Science Jacobs]
Courtesy is nothing more nor less than consideration for others, or as the oft-repeated phrase says, ""Politeness is to do and say the kindest thing in the kindest way."
Many illustrations of the lack of courtesy may be observed. One will serve as an example: a very refined, scholarly young man whom the writer knows, was seen seated near the rear of a bus. At one of the high schools, a large group of noisy boys and girls boarded the already crowded bus, with the result that many of the girls had to stand. The young man, before mentioned, stood up and, in his very precise language, said to a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1947 An Ideal Christmas Gift A book of favorite recipes comiled for those who know and love good food by Angie Earl. For 19 years caters at Salt Lake's famous Lion House Social Center.
BOOKCGCRAFT 1186 So. Main Street Salt Lake City 4, 5 Ss: Utah Add 2% Sales Tax in Utah SELDON N. HEAPS You Should Know ""Music's Richest Voice"' WURLITZER ORGANS — PIANOS—Finest makes VICTOR. DECCA, and CAPITOL RECORDS Choral numbers for the Relief Society and Choirs SUMMERHAYS MUSIC CO. 17 W. First So. 5-5881 L. D. S. Business Training Pays Young men and women face the future more confidently when they are thoroughly S.
Trained in stenography, book stationery keeping, or other forms of Day and evening classes. AND EDITION Students may enter at any PRINTERS AND Ask for information L. D. 5S.
PAPER RULING BUSINESS COLLEGE DESERET NEWS PRESS 70
North Main 29 RICHARDS STREET SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH Salt Lake City 1, Utah A GIFT WHICH CARRIES THE TRUE SPIRIT OF CHRISTMAS Make your gift list complete by including a book that will long be cherished "WIST YE NOT THAT | MUST BE The Visit of Jesus to the Temple at Twelve Years of Age BY President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. $1.50
Postpaid. All rights and royalties assigned to Relief Society On Sale ONLY at General Board of Relief Society 28
Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City 1, Utah ABOUT MY FATHER'S BUSINESS?" Please send.....................- copies of "WIST YE NOT THAT I MUST BE ABOUT MY FATHER'S BUSINESS?" at $1.50 each. Enclosed find.................-..---- (Check or Money Order, no stamps). Name Address 859 office work. Aye. COMMERCIAL BOOK BINDERS 860 irl standing neat, "Would you care to sit down?" With a toss of her pert little head, the gitl mimicked his manner and language, as she said, flushed. But remained awkwardly standing, and you can imagine the thoughts that went through his mind. Thus we see that there are two sides to courtesy—one in showing it to others and the other in accepting it graciously. There is 10 situation which calls for rudeness. The habits of courtesy are made a part of the lives of their children. Little drills and demonstrations ate very helpful. They might be carried out as games. Have the children, under mother's supervision, pretend they are introducing people to each other, or leaving the table. The time when a child commits a social misdemeanor is the psychological occasion to correct it, if the time is opportune. Obviously more harm than good may result if the children ate embarrassed when corrected. Angelo Patri says: Manners are the passport to friendship. They open the doors to pleasant places that are guarded by people of power. Knowing what to do and how to do it understanding and well-mannered young person. It pays to be good-mannered. Good manners do not grow overnight, or in the face of emergency. Have the sureness of habit behind them. When one is faced by 4 sudden demand for by habit, does what he always has done. - -- Use the family for practice. They will like it and you will benefit. By and by, you, £00, will prefer good manners. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1947
Sometimes amusing OF critical remarks are made concerning the technical rules of etiquette, but Emily Post points out that these rules were that certain procedures may be misconduct which grace and charm to an occasion is not only worthwhile, but is correct. It is reported that one of the First Ladies of the Land broke many Pre cedents of long years' standing while she was at the White House, but those precedents were always broken in the interest of kindness or to get giving a formal dinner. Course of the meal, it happened that one of the ladies neat her picked up the wrong, fork. Serving het mistake, immediately picked up the corresponding fork at her own plate and used it. How Important Is the Use and Tone of the Voice in Refinement? The voice is a very important factor in refinement. It can be either an asset to one OF a liability, depend ing on the control exercised over it. If one's voice is kept under control, it proves that the emotions also have been controlled. When a soft, gentle voice is cultivated by parents, the children, for the most part, will naturally adopt the same tone. Respect is another phase of refinement which needs careful cultivation in children. Respect for pat ents, respect for authority, for elderly people, for the opinion of others and the belongings of others, all must be taught and exemplified at home. Parents who allow their children to speak rudely to them are doing the LESSON DEPARTMENT children a great injustice. They are encouraging a lack of respect. Parents who allow children to be disorderly or destructive are failing in the training of refinement. The habits a child needs should become a part of him when he is small, then the training will be much easier. Children should extend occasional little courtesies to their parents. The son might hold mother's chair when she sits down at the table, open the car door and help her into the car. Sister might take the evening paper to father. See that children express appreciation for services performed for them. One mother said: If I had it to do over again, I would have my children wait on me instead of waiting on them so much. I think they would honor and respect me more. And someone else said, ""The measure of a happy person is his ability to be tough with himself and tender with others" (Readers' Digest, August 1946, page 39). REXBURG, IDAHO Has Housing For You Enroll for the WINTER QUARTER Registration January 5
Classwork begins January 6
Ricks College is fully accredited (Write registrar for details) ——— For Your Christmas Gift LESTER Cely I GES 'SPINET A beautiful piano with a magnificent tone... Sized and styled to fit any room... Large or small. See the new Betsy Ross Spinet today... Easy Budget Terms if you like. A small deposit will hold one until Christmas. Daynes MUSIC CO, 47 So.
