[Vol34 | December 1947 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Christmas Coles]

CHRISTMAS PRAYER Christie Lund Coles This is my prayer for Christmas, Lord, Let every soul accept your word; Let every heart forget its fears, Keep trust in thee as Christmas nears. Let every night be one of stats, Let peace wipe out the stain of wars; Let all men kneel to Jesus' birth, Let his pure spirit rule the earth. Page 807
Christmas by Emergency Alice Morrey Bailey MY Crandall looked around at her family with dissatisfaction. Her husband, Jim, was passively reading the evening paper. Francine was painting her nails, and Paul was idly thumbing through the Christmas cards. There was an air of complete boredom on their faces, no enthusiasm whatever, though Christmas was the day after tomorrow. Her own mind was a hodgepodge of petty worries. Aloud she said, "I can't get Rita and those children off my mind." "Oh, Mother!" groaned Francine. "Do you have to spoil Christmas?" "Christmas!" said Paul contemptuously, "who knows anything about Christmas around this joint?" "T thought you were going to bring a tree home, Paul," said Amy. She had said the same thing every evening for two weeks. "Why do we have to have a tree?" "Because everybody on the block has one, silly," answered Francine. "Our house looks funny without one." "That's a swell reason," said Paul sarcastically. "Personally, I could sleep the day in and skip it. If anyone's determined to give me a present, let it be in the form of a check, seeing that I'm between jobs right now, and the payment on my car is due." "That goes for me, too," Francine said. "Expecting me to work on Christmas! I was never so mad!" Francine had quit her job at the telephone office last night. "A commercial racket!" exploded Page 808
Jim. "That's all Christmas is, any more." "Well, I never!" said Amy, feeling injured. "I'm sure I've done my best. I've cleaned every room in the house and sent cards to all our friends, shopped for gifts all round. I haven't left out a soul." "That should do it, Mom," said Paul. "Christmas all printed out on a card with a rhyme to match: Let Christmas live in your hearts so sweet A Merry Christmas is here, Tweet! Tweet!" He pushed the cards aside with disgust. "Children! Respect your mother!" Jim reprimanded, and there was a little, resentful silence. "T wonder if Rita has a tree?" asked Amy, and Francine heaved a long-suffering sigh. "Here we go again," she said. "Francine!" warned Jim. "Well, it's all mother's talked about since she saw them in church. I should think Rita'd have more pride than to bring her children into public dirty like that, and flaunt her poverty." "I'm not sure it's poverty," said Amy. "I've heard that the boy Rita married made a comfortable living. It seems deeper than that. I've lost track of Rita since her mother died last March." CHRISTMAS BY EMERGENCY "Then it must be a plain case of laziness. I never saw such unkempt children. Whatever it is, it's none of our affair." "Her mother was one of my dear- est friends," said Amy with dignity. "A better housekeeper never lived. She asked me to look out for Rita with almost her last breath."
"Pete Hill hauled her up from the station," Paul explained. "He said he never saw such a conglomeration of boxes and paper bags. He was ashamed to come through town with them."
"I understand she's opened her mother's house," put in Jim, looking over his paper. "There's no heat there, but the kitchen range."
"Pack a basket, Mother," said Francine, "and let's get on with Christmas."
"Well, that is a good idea," said Amy, brightening. "It wouldn't take long and it would dispose of one wearisome detail."
"Now, if Paul'll get a tree—" began Francine.
"For Pete's sake! We're all grown. I'm of age, and Francine—"
"Don't say it!" warned Francine. "If a girl gets to be twenty-three she's an old maid."
"Rita's not that old, and she has four children."
"Rita married at seventeen. If you think—" flared Francine.
"Take it away, Sis. I was just teasing."
"It would surprise all of you if I came home some evening with a diamond."
"Has Phil asked you?" Jim questioned, too eagerly.
"Maybe," evaded Francine, "and maybe not."
AMY sighed. She knew Phil hadn't asked Francine, and for the life of her she didn't know why. The dining had started off with all the ease when Phil came to teach in the fall. Moreover, Francine was in love with him, and who wouldn't be—such a big, good-looking fellow, so able to converse, so ready to laugh. Francine was beautiful, well-educated, and as smart as a page from Vogue, a good match for him. But what could her mother do about it? Nothing, except to strike the right note of impersonal hospitality. Men shied away from too much attention, as from a trap.
"Let's see," she said, getting back to the basket for Rita, "some butter and eggs, and I could bake her that chicken. The turkey'll be enough for us . . ."
Jim rustled his paper. "Go a little easy, Amy. Butter and eggs and meat are like gold."
"Why don't you leave it until tomorrow, Mother?" Francine asked.
"I wouldn't sleep a wink!" said Amy. "I should have gone last night, but I was so busy hanging those curtains, and tomorrow will be another busy day, Christmas Eve."
She got some bottled fruit and jam, put in a loaf of bread, and dipped into the Christmas candy and nuts.
"Paul, will you drive me?" she asked.
"I wish you'll make it snappy. I've got a date in about an hour. Thought I'd take my girl to a dance."
THE place looked dark and forbidding when they drove up.
"Doesn't look as if anyone's at home," said Paul.
"There's a little light in the kitchen. I wonder if Rita didn't have the lights turned on."
Paul carried the basket to the door. "I'll wait in the car and listen 810 to the radio, but remember that date." Her knock on the door was answered after some delay by 4a little mite of a girl, hardly able to reach the knob. Two more children, an even smaller girl and a little boy were foraging for crumbs on the kitchen table.
Rita was sitting in front of the open oven door, the baby on her lap.
They were all even more unkempt than they had been in church. "It's Amy Crandall, isn't it?" said Rita, without getting UP.
Rita had been a pretty little thing, with small bones and a piquant face. Her dark-circled eyes and pale lips smote Amy's heart. "I brought you a basket," she said, setting it on the table. A candle, burning on a tin lid in the middle of the table, fought back the shadows as hopelessly as the small fire fought back the cold. "I haven't seen your children before, Rita. How old are they?" Amy asked. "Steven's four, Betty Kay is three, Alene's a year and a half, and the baby's five months," intoned Rita. Amy looked sharply at the baby. "I thought it was much younger. Is it a boy or a girl?" "Is a boy," said Rita listlessly. "I named him Tommy." The baby wasn't asleep, but it was thin and unmoving. Its open eyes were as lusterless as its mother's hair, Amy hardly noticed the other children, who crowded ground their mother shyly, but she thoughtfully spread them some bread and butter, eyeing the baby with growing misgivings, turning Rita's strange behavior over in her mind. "Your baby's sick, Rita," she said RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1947 finally. "What in the world are you doing here at this time of year? Where's your husband?" "I don't know," said Rita dully. "We quarreled. He said I was lazy. He went away angry: I can't go back. I can't stand any more.
Thought if I could get home, some: thing would work out..." Rita's mouth was trembling.. "You poor child! Too," said Amy. You're sick, THE car honked outside.
That would be Paul, getting impatient. Amy looked around the room. No lights—no hot water. What "More bread and butter," he said. "Mo', mo'," the little girls echoed. It was more than Amy could stand. "Paul, you’ll have to help me," she said, coming out to the car. "I'm going to take them home with me." "Now, Mother!" protested Paul. "Why don't you just drop a bomb down the chimney and let it go at that? But why?" "I knew you'd be angry—think me sentimental and stupid—insane, but it can't be helped." She outlined briefly what she had found in the house. "Of course, it will just ruin Christmas, but Paul, that baby is going to die if something isn't done right away." She waited for the explosion, but to her surprise Paul got out of the car and came soberly into the house. He bundled the children with an experienced hand, coming back two three times for bundles of dirty clothes Amy had gathered.
Finally he took the baby and the basket she had brought, while she helped Rita to the car.
Steven was sitting beside him, worshipping him with wide, dark-fringed eyes. "He'd be a cute little shaver if he—" he began, and stopped. Amy knew what he meant, if he were cleaned up. "Paul, I thought you'd be upset." "I had a job like this once before, gathering babies after the Germans had retreated," Paul said gruffly. A MY bustled into the bathroom to run a bath as soon as she was home, leaving the little group huddled in the living room.
Francine followed her in. "Mother, what is this? Don't tell me you've brought these creatures home for Christmas!" "I don't just know how long they'll be here, Francie." "But Mother! I've invited Phil for Christmas dinner." "We'll have everything under control by that time." "I can imagine!" said Francine bitterly. "These people are in trouble.
They have to be helped." "Well, it's your project," shrugged Francine. "Count me out." "I hoped you'd help me, Francine. The whole bunch has to be fed and bathed. The children have cute little clothes, but they're all dirty. I'll run them through the washer when things quiet down, but right now I have to call Dr. Kane." "Dr. Kane? You mean they're sick?" "I'm afraid so— both Rita and the baby." "Really?" asked Francine. "I suppose I could bathe the baby," she went on grudgingly. "I learned how in my homemaking class at the University. Can't Paul dunk the others?" "And now about Rita . . ." began Amy. "I know," Francine anticipated ungraciously. "Yes, you can put Rita in my bed, and yes, I'll sleep on the living room couch." Amy hadn't had a minute to explain things to Jim. She had glanced at him a time or two in passing. His face was noncommittal, and she knew he was not reading the book he held before it. To be honest, she was afraid to broach him about groceries for a bunch like this. Not that she would blame him. Jim was industrious and honest, but not a brilliant lawyer. He worked hard for his money, and the children seemed to think his pocketbook was a bottomless well of supply. WHEN the doctor arrived an hour later the sleepy-eyed babies were just finishing their soup.
They looked like three little angels in some of Paul's white teeshirts, their hair hanging in clean silken rings.
Rita was in bed, staring at the ceiling, and Francine was bending anxiously over the baby. "He doesn't move, even to cry. When I turned him over I had to lift his arm. Do you think he'll die?" "I'd better see the mother first," Dr.
Kane said when Amy had explained the circumstances. She took him in. He went over Rita thoroughly, keeping up a running 812 which Rita answered in monosyllables or not at all, questions that seemed superficial, but which were cleverly put to conceal a deeper probing.
Finally he beckoned Amy out. "I think you got her just in time," he said, and went to look over the baby. "How old is this baby?" he asked. "Five months," Amy told him, and they stood silent as he turned the infant, moving his stethoscope over its tiny chest. Jim got up to peer over Amy's shoulder. "Nothing organically wrong," the doctor finally pronounced, "seems to be malnutrition and toxin from the mother's feedings. Can you care for this child here?" Amy was searching her mind with some misgivings, trying to take all factors into consideration. "Weren't you in one of my classes at the University, young lady?" the doctor asked, addressing Francine.
Francine gasped. "Yes, I was," she admitted, "but...." "Fine! Fine!" said the doctor bruskly, "I’ll give you detailed instructions.
This will be a good workout for your knowledge. We'll need some prescriptions." "I woan dout if... Af..." Her eyes sought her father and Paul. "Tl foot the bill," said Paul. "I’ll land some kind of job tomorrow." Dr.
Kane sat at the desk and wrote a full page of instructions which he handed Francine. "Now, the mother," he said. "Her immediate need is hospitalization." "Hospitalization?" repeated Amy. "Yes. I'll want her there to clear up some physical disturbances of long standing, and for observation. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1947 A good psychiatrist may be in order. I want to know how it can be handled financially." "T don't know," said Amy. "Her husband seems to have left her. I know she hasn't any money." "There are agencies for family help if someone can unsnarl the legal difficulties. How about it, Jim?" "Why, sure, sure!" agreed Jim, taken by surprise. "That's right up my alley." "I say, it's pretty decent of you people.
Right at Christmas time, too, upsetting all your plans.
Looks like you caught them just in time, though." "It's nothing," said Jim, expanding. ~ "When will you want her? In the hospital, I mean." "In the morning, early, as soon as I can make arrangements." "I’ll guarantee the money," said Jim largely. "I might be able to locate that father and get him back | onto the job." "He may need a boost himself. He's pretty young, too, I understand."
Paul came out of his room as the doctor was leaving.. "The bairnies are cuddled doon in my room," he said. "How's that for a second-rate papa? Now may I go on my date? I can take a cot in the basement when I get home." "Paul, you're late.
What will your girl friend think?" "T called her and told her there existed a state of emergency. She was a good sport. We can still get a little dancing in." "Could you get to the drugstore before it closes, Paul, and get some things I need for the baby?" queried Francine. "Well," said Amy. "Looks as if CHRISTMAS BY EMERGENCY there's nothing left for me to do but the washing." THE house next day was a madhouse.
Alene ate all she could hold, and then plastered her bread with the remaining cereal. She smiled enchantingly when Amy went to fetch her.
Silken little things,.
They were, quick in their fluid baby motions, their sunny heads bobbing everywhere.. "No wonder Rita got sick. I'd be a wreck in a week," said Francine, "but aren't they adorable?" she added.
Phil called while Francine was making up the formula. "Tell him I'll call him back, Mother. I can't come just now," she said, but it was more than an hour before she could call him, and then he had gone. "Mother, I wanted to make this Christmas a once-and-for-all with Phil. I can't go on any longer with things at a standstill between us. If I lose Phil because of this baby...." "Well, I'm sure I could relieve you with the baby now that Rita has gone," said Amy. "Oh, no! I couldn't trust him with anyone else," Francine told her. Amy opened her mouth in astonishment, and closed it again. "Those little ones should have something for Christmas," Francine worried, "though I don't suppose they know much about it."
Paul came home that evening with a tapered Christmas tree, and with bulging packages of brightly colored balls, lights, and tinseled decorations. "I got a job," he announced, "Beginning the day after Christmas!" 813
His face was shining with excitement. "I'm getting my electric train out for Steven." "Guess who I saw?" he asked the round-eyed children. "Old Santa Claus himself, loaded right up to his ears with gifts for you." "Santa Claus bring me a 'lec'ric shaver like Uncle Paul," Steven said. Betty Kay and Alene clapped their hands. "Santa! Santa!" they shouted. "Well, whatdya know about that? Uncle Paul!" He tousled Steven's hair lovingly. "And I thought Christmas was spoiled for me for good." Jim came in the back way, wearing a look of sheepish guilt and walking in an aura of conspiracy. - "Tye located Rita's husband," he said triumphantly. "Talked to him long distance." "I gave it to him straight, and he's pretty cut up. He's catching the night train and will be here by morning. Dr. Kane thinks that'll do a lot to get Rita ticking again." "Well, he should be made acquainted with some of the damage he's done," said Francine indignantly, going back to the kitchen. She was there when Phil came. "Francine's giving the baby his evening rub," Amy said, "I'll call her." "No, don't. Let me go in." He tiptoed awkwardly, balancing his big frame, and stood in the doorway, watching Francine. "Mother! Mother!" she was saying excitedly, "Tommy smiled at me! Isn't that wonderful? Come and see if you don't think he is plumper and brighter already." She looked up then, and saw Phil, and Amy had never seen her more beautiful, her face flushed and shining, her hair tumbled in soft curls about her face.
"Phil, I look a sight!"
"You surely do, but don't worry. I'm a man that likes to take off my shoes after a hard day's work. So this is the rival I've come to joust with! Well, I brought his choice weapons," he said, fishing a rattle box out of his pocket.
"Phil, who told you?"
"I got it straight from Dr. Kane, and when this little guy nosed me out on the telephone, I was jealous. I'll have you know."
Amy decided this was her cue to retreat from the door where she had followed Phil. In the living room
Paul and Jim were decorating the tree, retrieving the fragile balls from Betty Kay, rescuing the strings of lights from Steven's wild assistance, and untangling Alene from yards of flashing tinsel.
"There are bushels of jeeps and dolls in the basement," Jim said, "oranges and gingercks to put in the stockings. It will be something to see their faces in the morning."
"Christmas is a wonderful time of year," sighed Amy happily.
"You know, Amy! We need some grandchildren of our own."
"In due time, Jim," said Amy complacently, indicating a rapturous shadow on the kitchen door. It showed a perfect outline of Phil kissing Francine.