[Vol34 | December 1947 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Work Meeting Jennings]

LESSON DEPARTMMENT 853
Work Meeting—Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 5—Bias Cutting and Joining, Cording, and Facing Jean Ridges Jennings Reference: The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapter VIII For Tuesday, February 10, 1948 IAS strips are commonly used as a finish for suits and dresses, either as a decoration or in a utilitarian capacity. The purpose of this lesson is to suggest ways of using bias for finishing garments and also to give the proper methods of doing so. Three of the most popular edge finishes involving bias strips are: binding, facing, and cording. For any one of the three treatments it is first important and necessary to obtain a true bias strip. If the material is not cut accurately on the true bias grain, the results will be distressing. The material may not lie flat and will launder poorly. The true bias grain is the diagonal of both lengthwise and crosswise grain. To obtain this, bring straight crosswise edge parallel with the lengthwise edge and the resulting fold is the true bias. The diagonal ends of these strips will be on the grain of the material, either lengthwise or crosswise. In joining the bias strips lay the two diagonal ends together, right sides together, and stitch. Then press seams open and flat. Remember that when the strips are laid together for stitching, the points will extend beyond the strip just the width of the seam taken. Always take care to cut and join bias strips accurately. For sheer materials, bindings are always more attractive when made as narrow as possible. They are usually better when applied double. Cut the bias strip six times the width you wish the finished edge to be, fold the binding through the center evenly, with the right side out, and press. Pin the binding to the fabric smoothly with all of the edges even, baste in place, and then stitch on the sewing machine. Bring the folded edge over the seam to the wrong side and hem down by hand, catching the stitches under the machine stitching, being careful not to have them go through to the right side. For heavier fabrics, use a single binding, cutting the bias strips four times the width of the finished binding. Pin, baste, and machine stitch with the two right sides together, having one edge even with the edge of the garment. Turn under the other raw edge once, then turn the folded edge over the seam and stitch A bias facing is made by cutting the bias strip as wide as desired and sewing the edge to be faced in the same manner as the single binding. Press the seam open and flat, then turn bias to the wrong side at the seam edge, being careful that none of the facing shows on the right side. Turn under edge of facing and stitch flat. Blind hem it to the garment. 854
Cording as an edge finish or a trimming is extremely attractive when used at the neckline, on the bottom of sleeves, or to outline any structural detail. Space does not permit a lengthy discussion of uses for cording, but the possibilities are unlimited. (See The Complete Book of Sewing, pages 47, 48, 51, 57, 105, 132.) *To cover a cord, prepare bias strip wide enough to go around the cord RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1947 and allow for seam. When the bias strip that covers the cord is to be used also as a facing, it should be 1% inches wide, and one edge should be allowed twice as deep as the other. Lay the cord in the fold and stitch close to the cord using machine cording foot. Stitch to edge of garment allowing cord to extend beyond the edge evenly all the way. Blind hem the lower edge of the facing to the garment.