[Vol34 | December 1947 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Support the Family Sharp]

Support the "Family Hour"
AT the recent great October general Church conference, the sisters of the Relief Society—the women and mothers of the Church—were called upon to support the "Family Hour" observance, with the promise of blessings which would be given their families by such action. Relief Society visiting teachers were authorized to serve as messengers to deliver an instruction pamphlet "The Family Hour" in every Latter-day Saint home.
The General Board calls upon the sisters of the Church to lend their active and persistent support to this worthwhile Church program. It is designed to be a year-round activity held usually in the home, but at times out-of-doors or at other places. Its prime purpose is to bring the family members closer together that eternal bands may be tightened around them, with love, unselfishness, obedience, and understanding.
As the families in the Church become more righteous, the entire Church will reflect this spirit and the Lord's work will be pushed forward at an accelerated pace.
The "Family Hour" is intended to be a happy, natural family gathering, permeated with joy. Upon the mother in the home will depend much of its success. She can, by her influence and encouragement, see that each member participates. She can make it a special occasion which will stand out in the memory of her family throughout its life. By careful planning, the gathering may be of such interest as to appeal to each member. After the "Family Hour" is successfully launched, then turns may be taken by different family members in planning future gatherings. Special refreshments will add to the occasion.
Mothers should never lose sight of the great underlying purposes of "The Family Hour" and should devote themselves unselfishly to the perpetuation of this observance in their families. The rewards which come to fathers and mothers by working patiently with their children will be everlasting rewards which will endure throughout the eternities.
May every mother in the Church help establish a "Family Hour" in her family, to be conducted under the direction of the Priesthood in her home.
—M. C. S.