[Vol34 | December 1947 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Anna Prince Redd]
Atari Where Trails Run Out Anna Prince Redd
CHAPTER 11 [The incidents of this story are truce, and the characters authentic. The information has been carefully gleaned from diaries, journals, and personal interviews.—Ed.] ' Synopsis: A company of twenty-four young men and two families—James L. Davis, his wife, Mary, and their four children; Henry H. Harriman, his wife, Elizabeth, and their five children—are called to explore a route from Cedar City, in Southern Utah, to San Juan County. The two families are to remain in San Juan and prepare for the coming of the main company. The company, after much suffering, finally reaches Moenkopi. The Davis family remains there and the others go on toward the San Juan.
Scouts return to Moenkopi and report the arrival of the Harrimans on the San Juan. The James L.
Davis family and the scouts leave to join the Harrimans, and Mary and Elizabeth are reunited. Mary's baby is born after a difficult confinement. _The families at Montezuma are destitute for food and there is much trouble with unfriendly Indians. One of the Harriman children dies; George Hobbs arrives with word that the main company will soon join the pioneers on the San Juan.
Were at work on the river dam, when a friendly Indian runner came dashing across the ford and up the bank, waving his arms and shouting: "Many white men and their squaws have come! On the banks of the San Juan, they sit down.
Heap tired.
Horses no pull. All the time the white men sit down!" "Tt is the second company!"
James and Henry cried in unison. And away they raced to James' house, where Mary and Elizabeth were. Ke and Henry Harriman "They've come, girls!" they cried. "Our friends have got through at last!" "God be praised!"
Elizabeth exclaimed.
Mary had not taken her eyes from James' face. He began to shift uncomfortably, and avoided her eyes. "Why don't we go to meet them, James?" she asked, knowing from his nervous shiftings that something was wrong. "We can't go to meet them Mary," Henry replied, relieving James of the responsibility of answering. "They are miles down the river.
This good Lamanite brought us word." The women sat down, suddenly, too disappointed for speech. The Indian stepped forward and began to explain as fluently as he could: "Two suns, and white men come here.
River place no_ big!
Some move wagons.
Some stay!"
Relief and joy were unmistakable in everyone's face. 'The Indian smiled proudly.
Turning to James and Henry, he asked: "You squaws heap glad!
Like um more folks to come here, huh?" "White men bring us food," said James. "Long time, no eat," Henry added for good measure. The Indian shook his head negatively. "Long time, no eat?" he Page 831 832 questioned. "White men on river want food, too!" Not grasping the full import of the Indian's words, Henry explained patiently, "Long time, no eat. Two moons, only little bit bread.
White men come.
White men bring food to Montezuma."
Again the Indian shook his head. "No savvy," he said. "Heap no savvy!
Maybe so paper talk tell about food."
From a pouch that hung from his waist, the Indian extracted a crumpled bit of paper. "A letter!"
Elizabeth exclaimed. And then in a voice that was mixed with eagerness and dread, she asked James to read the letter.
Mary just stood still and listened.
James smoothed out the bit of wrapping paper, and read aloud: Bluff, Utah San Juan County, April 1st, 1880
Elder James L. Davis Montezuma Settlement, San Juan Mission, San Juan Dear Brother Davis: This is to inform you that this day the San Juan Mission Company reached the San Juan, and, unable to continue on up the river to your location, have designated a town site here, and we have named it "Bluff City." We are very worn out, and our food supply is low. But we are instructed to send a generous portion of what we have to you, at the outpost of this mission. We, therefore, have dispatched this food supply to you, by those of the company, who, having drawn blank slips in the land lottery here, will go on to Montezuma Settlement and live near you. May God bless and prosper you in your faithful labors.
Your brother in the Gospel, Platt De Alton Lyman, First Counselor to Silas S. Smith President of the San Juan Mission RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1947 "THERE was a profound silence during the reading of the letter and for some minutes afterward.
Then everyone began to talk at once. "Isn't it wonderfull" Elizabeth cried. "I can hardly believe that we shall see our friends so soon.
People from our very own homes!" "We can hold Church and have a real school!"
Mary exclaimed. "There'll be other women like ourselves," she added. "Neighbors and friends!" And for sheer joy she began to weep. James Davis executed a dance step, and swung Henry Harman around the room with him. "There'll be people to buy things, Henry," he contributed. "Now I can have my long-dreamed-of store!"
They stopped dancing, and James blew his nose vigorously. "We'll have a post office, and get the news," Henry said, as though he could not believe his own words. "It's really so."
James grabbed the ladies' hands, and they caught hold of Henry, and away they circled, too happy to wonder why they were frightening their children so. Wide-eyed, the children watched their parents, too dazed by the sudden excitement to show any feelings at all. In the midst of this rejoicing, Ted Davis came racing into the yard. "Pal" he cried. "Pal The milk cows are gone!" James Davis whirled toward his son, consternation and_ disbelief written in his face. "Ted, my boy," he said thickly, "don't joke with your Pa. Not at a time like this!' "I'm not joking, Pa!" Ted cried. "Come and see for yourself!"
Walking like an old man, tired WHERE TRAILS RUN OUT of his years, James Davis followed his son to the enclosure where the last of his cows had been guarded.
Waiting for them to calve, promising the little ones plenty of good milk to drink, had been ail that had kept the family from complete discouragement. Now, even that hope was gone! "I’ll follow the Indians, Pal" Ted cried. "It's my fault that the cows are gone. I went to set my coyote traps and the Indians came." "You have done the same before, my boy Ted, and the cows were safe. You couldn't stay by the enclosure all the time, there was other work to do." "I’ll find our cows, Pa. I've got to find 'em—for Ma and little Ethel." "It's too risky, Son.
Your life is more to us than a herd of cows!" "But little Ethel's got to have milk, Pa!" Ted insisted. "I got to go, Pa!"
James turned back to the house. "We'll let your mother say, Ted. I think you best not go." "Ma, I'm goin' after the cows!" Ted cried. "Say that I should, Ma."
James looked at Mary, sitting apathetically before the fire, her hands locked in her lap. "What do you say, Mary?" he asked. "He may fall into the hands of the Indians." "He has to go." Mary's eyes were anguished, her voice was unnaturally tense. "Tl be careful, Ma," Ted promised. "I think I know right where to look for the cows." "You be home by tomorrow at noon," Mary said sharply. "Cows Or no cows!"
James followed his son into the 833 yard, saw him mount his pony and tide away. "May the Lord protect my boy," he prayed. IGHT came down, quietly as dew falling, and the stars came out, shining like tinsel.
Mary stood in the open doorway, numb to the April air, breathing each breath as a painful duty.
James came in from the woodpile with his arms piled up with pitch faggots. "We'll not need to make a light down the path, James," Mary said. "Our Ted will not come tonight." She closed the door and went to sit before the fire to knit and wait.
Wait and knit! She counted the coyotes by their yelping, the hours by the beat of her heart.
