[Vol34 | December 1947 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Peace Be Griffin]

MAKE THE CHILDREN HAPPY
Peace, Be Still Marguerite I.
Griffin darkness of midnight its brazen white flashes illumined the velvet hills and exposed them in their slumber- Intermittent Streaks, more brilliant than man's neon, shot across the starless heavens and were punctuated by earsplitting blasts of thunder. To the north, old Squaw Butte was spasmodically silhouetted with startling brilliance, but only for a moment at a time, as though it were a mighty citadel being bombarded by nature itself. And I thought, as the wind mourned through the trees outside my little house and brought to my nostrils the odor of raindrops on hot, dry soil, how great, yet how terrible is the power of God. In the words of the psalmist: The Lord also thundered in the  heavens, and the Highest gave his voice; hail stones and coals of fire. Yea, he sent out his arrows, and scattered them; and he shot out lightnings, and discomfited them.
Then the channels of waters were seen, and the foundations of the world were discovered at thy rebuke, O Lord, at the blast of the breath of thy nostrils (Psalm 18:13-15). And I thought, what could be the power of men, even with their atom bombs, if God our Heavenly Father chose to strike them with his great power? I could not sleep. I could only watch through my open window, fascinated, yet distinctly uneasy, too. I was not used to thunder and lightning. It frightened me. It was so Page 828 big, so noisy. It filled my world with flashes of light and crashing din, and my lips involuntarily breathed a prayer: "Dear Lord, protect our home, our loved ones, our animals, our flocks.” In crying out to him, I thought quite clearly of him who has the power to still the storm, who has the power to preserve and to protect. It seemed as though the flashes of light outside silhouetted in my mind that story of long ago, when Jesus and his disciples were in a ship upon the sea, and a great storm of wind arose, "and the waves beat into the ship, so that it was now full." But Jesus was undisturbed through it all, for "he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow . . . ." Yes, he had been full of compassion for the lame, the halt, the blind. He had taught saving  parables of eternal life to the multitude for long hours, and now he was weary and his physical body lay relaxed, asleep. Lie who was to know all depths of sorrow and of pain, knew no fear at this moment. Yet his disciples in their anxiety, yes, in their terror, ". . . . awake him, and say unto him, Master, carest thou not that we perish?" "And he arose, and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm." As simple as that. He had known his power was greater than that of wind or wave or storm. He could sleep quietly through it all, knowing that "the earth is the Lord's, and PEACE, BE STILL the fulness thereof;" and that while he was about his "Father's business" he would have his full protection. No force of nature could subdue the Son of Man. "And he said unto them, Why are ye so fearful? How is it that ye have no faith? _ "And they feared exceedingly, and said one to another, What manner of man is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?" ES, indeed.
What manner of man is this? Oh, ye nations of the earth, he is your Lord, your Redeemer, the Prince of Peace.
This is he who said, "Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest."
This is he who is the light shining in darkness and the world too long has comprehended it not.
This is he who taught, "And fear not them which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul: but rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. And strangely enough all fear left my being as I watched the shafts of light cut across the night sky, for I remembered what I had forgotten— that God, who lives as surely as you and I, controls the power of the elements and governs the destinies of all men who will serve him.
These flashes of light and pealings of thunder, this rush of wind outside my 829 house, these were spectacular but they were nothing to dread. Instead, there were bigger things to fear, quiet things that could creep like shadows into the dark places of my life, or more subtly, more dangerously, into the tender lives of my children, tentacles from the sins of the world that reach out gently at first, only to crush finally with the grasp of hopeless servitude. Yes, rather we "should fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body" and shun him and build a barricade of righteousness about our hearts to keep him out. Tonight, all nature was in protest against the summer heat, but my children were safe in their own snug beds.
Tonight there was no danger.
That would come in unexpected moments tomorrow, next week, next year. Dear Lord, protect my children.
Help me make them strong.: I crept back into my own bed, and when next I opened my eyes, the world was calm, the skies were blue, and the sunshine bright. And now where the wind had must night vexed the leaves of the trees, hosts of birds were warbling a glad welcome to the new day. Dear Heavenly Father, give me the strength of the birds, the ability to sing after any storm that may beset my life!