[Vol21 | February 1934 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: One Blake]
One Eventful Night By Isabelle Blake
"Oh! It's cold tonight, Mother," said Anna Macdonald, as she took off her coat in the "lobby" before entering the warm kitchen. "Aye, March has certainly come in like a lion.
Come in, lassie, there's a good fire" "We've visitors," she added, as the girl entered and smiled at the two men standing by the fire. "Oh!
Good evening, President, "exclaimed Anna, "Hello, Andrew, why so gloomy?" "Your hands are like ice, dear," Andrew Lorimer said drawing her to the fire. "Come and sit down." But Anna stopped him and said to President Smith."
Anything wrong, Brother Smith; You look very serious." "Nothing exactly wrong, Anna, but I went up to administer to Margaret Pirie and she was asking for you.
They think it may be tonight and Donald is very low spirited." "I've told you she can't go up to Pirie's tonight, "interrupted Andrew angrily. "She is coming with me to our staff dance and it will take her all her time to change and go." "Come away and get your supper and then talk," said Mrs.
Macdonald firmly, "The lassie's hungry and you lads have had nothing since dinner."
Andrew said he wasn't hungry but President Smith sat down with an air of eagerness and Mrs. Macdonald's hot scones started to disappear with amazing rapidity. Meanwhile Anna ate on the run. "We can go along with President Smith, Andy, and I'll run up to see Margaret before we go to the dance." "I don't see why you have to go at all. The nurse and doctor will be there and probably her folks." "Well," said President Smith, "Margaret's folks have not been near since she joined the Church and as Relief Society visitor Anna has been there a great deal and Margaret has come to depend on her a lot." "She's not the only one," said Lorimer rather savagely.
Half the members of the Branch seem to be that way." "She's a good lassie," said Mrs. Macdonald, "And she will not shirk her duty." "And in this case duty and inclination meet," cried Anna emerging from the bedroom in her pretty dance frock, a warm coat on her arm, "And if you think I won't be in at the finish after these long hours of watchful waiting well, you're all 96 wrong. If you two men are ready we'll be going.
