[Vol21 | February 1934 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Guide Lessons | Title: LESSON DEPARTMENT 119
Social Service]

LESSON DEPARTMENT 119
Social Service (Fourth Week in April) PLay
AND PLAY FACILITIES LESSON XVI
Two changes have taken place in the parental point of view regarding play The industrial conditions have been modified so that there is little place for children as workers. The time of the child must be occupied in other ways and play has become more important. Parents no longer think of play versus work in the life of a child and strive to reduce play as the evil contender. The second attitude has been caused by the psycnological demonstrations of the developmental value of play in child care. It is no longer considered evil to play. Even governmental agencies plan to support play programs and places for recreation. The aim of this lesson is to make this change in point of view more prominent in the minds of the class members and to give them some practical suggestions for directing play as a part of child care. The lesson should be taught in such a way as to answer the following questions: How can play be made to contribute most to the health of children? How can play be made to contribute most to the socialization of the child? How can play itself be kept most happy for children? What provisions for space and equipment in the home and the community are possible for the members of each class? Suggestions for Procedure: 1. Have each class member prepare a list of the places available for her children to play both at home and in the community; the type of play equipment at each place; the sanitary conditions of each place; the accident hazzards that are there; and the safeguards provided against accident. With these lists as bases discuss the healthfulness of play in the community. Stress especially freedom from accident, proper amount of fresh air play; and games, etc., suited to the children. Have a class member report on the Physical Education suggestion given in White House Conference Report, pp. 177 and 218-220. 2. Discuss the material outlined in the reading guide in order to make clear the socializing problems connected with play. 3. Have the class define "leisure." Have them see clearly that training for the worthy use of leisure is essentially training in play activities. To learn to use leisure properly children must learn what play activities are possible; they must learn to use all of the available facilities, and the process must be so happy that they will want to repeat these wholesome activities when they are free to choose and when enjoyment is their chief aim. Have a class member report on the material found in the White House Conference Report pp. 253-262. Have a special report on how reading may be made into happy play based on the White House Conference Report pp. 262-265. Happiness at play depends upon the adaptation of the activity to the stage of development of the child. Have a class member make an interpretation of the quotation from Miss 120
Harrison's story "Jack and the Alley Boys" given in the supplementary material.
Have a similar report made on the quotations on play from Faegre and Andersen: "Child Care and Training."
Happiness at play depends on the possibility of a wide variety of activities—not just physical.
When children or primitive people use leisure they create.
Read to the class the short extract 'Wrhhat is recreation" from the supplementary material. 4. In studying the problem of equipping for adequate recreation discuss first the reading guide.
Then have a report made on the effect of economic status as discussed in the White House Conference Report, pp. 141-145.
Topical reports from the White House Conference Report might be made as follows: Place and Play pp. 216. The school Age pp. 218-221.
Outside the School pp. 221-228.
Study the lists of playthings given in the supplementary material as suggestions for homes.
Reading guide for class members: Personality, pp. 21-30.
Play is not formally defined.
There is an implied relationship of play with "new experience," "growth," "adventure," "group life," "widening interests," "leisure time opportunities," "play interests."
Take time to work out these relationships as you read. The positive development values of play are listed on page 22. A pencil and paper will help you in isolating and learning these.
There seems to be implied a special fear of the "gang". Do you share this fear? Is it possible to prevent the formation of gangs?
What positive safeguards are suggested RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for avoiding the evils of gangs?
What is meant by "natural impulses for physical and mental activity?' Is a "natural impulse" more difficult to control?
What is the relation of this idea of naturalness to the last sentence in the quotation from the Committee on the Socially Handicapped as given at the top of page 4? Is the discussion on commercial types of amusement designed to do away with these, to urge more community centers, to urge more attractive community centers, to urge a different program in community centers, or for some other reason? How can children be led to "know other kinds of leisure time activity"? P. 25. The attitude expressed regarding the influence of companions is rather revolutionary.
Have you thought the same way? Do you agree now? On page 27 is a quotation from President Hoover.
What does he mean by "imaginative surrounding's?"
What does the author mean by "children's lives are lived constructively" in the next sentence?
Some definite suggestions on things to do are given.
These will be of no value if you just read them.
What can you do about any of them in your community?
Supplementary material: 1, Harrison: "Jack and the Alley Boys."
Jack went to play with the boys in the alley, took part in throwing rocks and was arrested. He was just seven years old. His mother came for help. "I don't see why Jack can't be satisfied with his toys and his picture book," she continued; he used to like them and to play with me in his LESSON DEPARTMENT nursery. But now nothing seems to satisfv him but to be with those horrid Sloam boys."
Then she wished the Sloam boys would move out of the neighborhood, or that she could persuade Jack's father to sell their home and move into a neighborhood where there were no bad boys. Her helplessness appealed to me. I tried to explain to her that Jack was no longer a little child; he was a boy now, and needed a larger world than his nursery and the back yard; that he was longing for larger and more varied experiences, and that this longing was perfectly natural, in fact, it would show a sad lack of mental growth if he did not want a larger world. "She gazed at me with big, childish eyes filled with surprise.
Seeing that she did not understand my generalities I began to particularize. "TI would suggest,' I continued, "that you so arrange your housework that after school on pleasant days you could go with Jack for a long walk, or take a tramp to some unfamiliar locality or a street car ride to the next suburb.
Send him on errands to the grocery store," I added. "Take him into the city with you on Saturdays, occasionally. Get his father to take him out on Sunday afternoons. In such ways enlarge his little world yourselves, so that he will not seek the Sloam boys for a change or new experience. "Perhaps it might be well," I suggested, "to invite some of his nice schoolmates in to take tea with you.
This would probably result in his being invited to eat in some of their homes. This, too, would help to satisfy his hunger for new experiences." We talked on for a while longer and she thanked me for the suggestions I had given.
When she rose to go I followed her to the door and saw Jack and Ger121 trude coming across the lot, both warm and flushed by their rapid walk.
They were chattering merrily together, evidently they were just returning from one of their long walks together. — "Today is Saturday, and just after our noon meal I chanced to see Jack dressed in his best suit with a stiff collar and a big bow necktie (how he hates those babyish big bows), starting from his home, tugging in a sullen sort of a way at a pair of kid gloves into which he was striving to thrust his hands.
Following a short distance behind him were his father and mother, both dressed as for an entertainment. All three seemed out of mood and in a hurry of unpleasant excitement. As they disappeared in the direction of the railway station I surmised that they were going to town, and the thought of them dropped out of my mind. "Tonight, however, Jack's mother came in to see me in quite a flutter of pleasure. She said she had told Jack's father what I had said about Jack's needing a change. "And." she added triumphantly, "he took Jack and me to a vaudeville show this afternoon, and he has promised to take us, or to send us, every Saturday! Won't that be fine? "Gertrude was right, we must get hold of Jack himself!" (Misunderstood Children by Harrison, pp. 96-98.) 2. "If we recognized the nature of the child's play and its importance in developing his life attitudes, this would not so often happen. The child's play is, first of all, serious. He puts into it his whole power, is absorbed and intent, lost in his pursuit, whether it be that of building a block house, loading sand, or pushing his engine up an incline. The play of the child is full of meaning to 122 him, because it is something he has initiated, it is an activity of which he sees the purpose. The child learns largely by means of the satisfaction he derives from an activity; hence the educative value of spontaneous, self-induced activity which is a satisfaction in itself, quite apart from any benefit the child's habits receive. "Play at this age, two years, should aim to give ease in motion, freedom for great physical activity, and opportunity for much absorption through the senses.
There must be stairs, boxes, chairs for experimental climbing. A small, stout chair will be used more often to push, to climb on, or to carry, than to sit on.
There should be wagons to pull, ropes to swing on, so that arm and back muscles, as well as leg muscles, may learn quick adjustments. Big balls to roll and catch, sand and water for mud pies, utensils to bang and pound with, furnish appeal to several senses. The manipulation of objects fascinates the child. He likes to drive nails into soap, to pour beans from one receptacle into another, to turn the handle of the meat grinder, or put together the separator. "How often he is expected to gain sensory and motor experience in a home where he is constantly told "not to touch"! The two-year-old who climbs on the polished diningroom table is not wantonly mischievous.
Providing something to climb on is easier and more constructive than trying to check the child every time he infringes our rules, which, after all, are arbitrarily laid down for the convenience of adults. "The mother who provides opportunities for the child to help in opening and closing drawers and cupboards, in carrying dishes, in hunting RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for articles—in short, who makes use of instead of trying to thwart the child's impulses—will be rewarded by fewer vexatious occurrences.
Mothers often complain, "(How can I interest my twelve-year-old in doing her share around the house?" In the same breath they admit that they could never put up with the child's early efforts at helping be'cause it took so much more patience and time "to show the child how than to do it myself." (Faegre and Anderson: Child Care and Training, pp. 205-206207.) 3. "What is recreation?
Even under the most primitive conditions of existence the whole of man's time and energy is not consumed in those activities directly related to the maintenance of life and the satisfaction of family, economic, civic, and religious interests.
After these needs are met a margin of leisure remains. In periods of plenty the savage may have opportunity for giving expression to those impulses which but lightly condition existence; and during the inclement seasons, when the ordinary routine of life is suspended, he may turn his mind to the pursuit of congenial interests. In these moments of leisure man may elaborate the common life and weave into it meanings and appreciations which are not derived from external necessity.
Thus grow up in the life of every group the recreational arts— songs, stories, games, dances, ceremonials, and festivals.
Among the earliest of human records are the crude drawings of animals scratched on the fragments of bones, or painted on the walls of caves.
These were the diversions of the primitive huntsman as in moments of leisure he relived in imagination some exciting adventure of the chase or conLESSON DEPARTMENT templated the thrills of future exploits.
Through activity as well as through rest the re-creation of life proceeds." (Chapman and Counts: Principles of Education, pp. 294-295.) 4.
Materials for Play: a. "As much as possible of the child's play should be carried on out of doors. We know that in providing play materials for children we must include two types: things which exercise the large muscles, and things which stimulate mental activity. The outdoors is 'the true home of childhood, in this wild, undomesticated stage from which modern conditions have kidnapped and transported him.' But 'for very many children, the pasture and the woodlot have long since been sold, the climbing tree has been chopped down, the barn, even the woodshed, has disappeared.' Facing this change in community life which has brought about the apartment and the neighborhood playground, we must provide substitutes for those thing's which were before a natural part of the environment. If there are not any trees to climb we must have ladders, ropes, horizontal bars. The modern child has no sandy creek in which to play; but the narrowest city lot is roomy enough to include a sand box. ° Every child should have packing boxes to clamber into, or use for store or house if there is no place for a "shack" or "dugout.". "Indoor play space is as important. The mother who prepares to sacrifice for a few years some of her ideas of orderliness and beauty, in order that the child may have freer surroundings, may be rewarded by a calm child with good muscular coordination. In the household where polished surfaces and bric-a-brac are 123 of immediate importance an unstable, irritable child is only too likely to result from the clamor of "don'ts". A punching bag or a trapeze, fitted up in a doorway or on a cellar beam, furnishes an outlet for energy which oftentimes spills over into behavior annoying to adults. If there is no attic or basement to be converted to the children's use, the furnishings of their rooms must be so simple that no qualms will be felt when they get hard use.
This does not imply that a child should be encouraged in rough or destructive play. His energy and interests may be building up either good or bad habits, depending on the selection of materials and toys, and the place where he uses them. "Tt is important that we keep in mind when selecting or planning for toys, the growing and changing needs of the child. Too often the eye of the adult is caught by playthings which are of only passing interest to children. To be of value, equipment and materials should be of permanent and lasting nature, and should be readily adaptable by the child as he develops.
Blocks furnish a splendid basis for developmental play because they lend themselves to so many uses.
Wloden animals, which can be used in building up a farm, furnish a nucleus around which the child may gather interesting and constructive material.
Parents are sometimes discouraged because their children fail to use expensive equipment, not realizing that the fault lies in their selection rather than in the child. To a boy of seven, a Meccano set has fascinating possibilities; to a child of four, it is a combination of odds and ends, which he juggles about a bit, and then loses piece by piece." (Child Care and Tiraining: by 124
Faegre and Anderson, pp. 208-209211.) b. Play becomes work when it is made into a competitive program or the goal made more important than the activity of playing. Popular Playground Projects— Recreations, April, 1932: Traveling theater; puppet shows; children's folk theater; reading; handcraft; stories; travelogues— with construction work; music; hikes; flowers and gardens; pets: and pet shows; holiday celebrations by children; festivals; wagons; kidReady made toys RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE die cars; tricycles, doll carriages; sand boxes; rope jumping; lawn games; ball games; checkers; chess etc.; neighborhood square dances; folk dances; return to the imitative —tools, musical instruments, etc.; parties; socials; art hobbies; nature activities; nature notebooks; photography; building blocks; fishing; outing; horseshoe; sewing of variOus types. 'c. Jessie C. Fenton: (A Practical Psychology of Babyhood; Houghton Mifflin, gives the following suggestive list of toys, chapter IT p. 54.) Home made toys One to three months Rattles, strings of beads, celluloid and rubber rings, small animals of rubber or celluloid. Spools, strings of buttons, light spoons, chains made by linking large safety pins together., Three to six months Floating celluloid toys for the bath, bells. Small lids and covers, a cup and spoon, clothes pins, rattles, made of aluminum salt shakers, tea-balls, etc., with small pebbles inside, sheets of clean crisp paper. Six to nine months Light wooden blocks, dolls, toy animals, picture books. Various kitchen utensils: eggbeater, potato masher, wooden butter paddle, etc., hard fruits and vegetables of different shapes, such as oranges, cucumbers, small gourds and squashes. Nine to twelve months Nests of hollow blocks or boxes, blocks, books to use in turning pages as well as to look at, ball, all sorts of manipulative toys: an abacus, small game of quoits, etc. Sets of pans, cups, cans, boxes, etc., which will fit one inside another, jars, bottles, etc., with removable lids to take off and put on, boxes or baskets containing a number of small objects, which may be taken in and out.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Home made toys 125
Ready made toys Twelve to fifteen months Primers with simple stories, toys to drag or pull about, a small wagon or wheelbarrow, a bell mounted on wheels, toy animals set on wheels, etc., (such toys should be solid and not too easily tipped over. A two wheeled cart or wheelbarrow is better than a four-wheeled one because less liable to upset in turning corners.) toy replicas of household articles: iron, broom, shovel, dolls, furniture, etc., toy chair to sit on. A cylindrical can or carton impaled on a string or wire so that it will roll as it is dragged about is often even better than toys with wheels at this stage, because it turns in any direction readily without upsetting, pebbles, a bell, or something of the sort, may be put inside to make a noise. Empty boxes and cartons. Fifteen to eighteen months Toy trains, autos, etc., more miniature household articles, crayons and pencils to mark with, toy blackboards, slates, etc. A box to climb upon (an apple box of a good size to climb into and out of. Care should be taken that there are no nails, splinters, etc.) a plank raised at one or, both ends to walk on and bounce on. Eighteen to twenty-four months A sand pile, bucket and shovel, shells, various toys for digging, etc., toys which enable the child to reenact his own real experiences, such as toy airships, farm implements, trains, doll carriages, whatever he has encountered and enjoyed in real life, a swing, more elaborate blocks. Arlitt: (The Child from One to Six) makes the following suggestions: Toys for House Play Doll beds, carriages, stoves, wash tubs, wash boards, clothes pins, chest of drawers containing doll clothes, brooms, sweepers, unbreakable dishes, kitchen utensils: egg beaters, potato masher, flour sifter, screen play house: tea party, chairs and tables. Scrapbooks, made by pasting pictures cut from magazines, etc., in blank books or books made of heavy butcher's paper, blocks made of leftover lumber, etc. Blocks Nest of blocks, large cubes and bricks, architectural blocks, large maple blocks: cut to order. Toys for Block Play Toy animals, a set of trees, Noah's ark, doll house families. Dolls. Unbreakable, rag dolls. 126
Arts and Crafts Materials Modeling clay or plasticine, paints: non-poisonous water colors—provide paper and rubber aprons, crayons and drawing paper, scissors, paste and construction paper, hammer, large nails, and soft wood. Toys for Active Play Pulling toys: carts, wheelbarrow, toy animals on wheels, wagons, riding toys: velocipedes, kiddie car, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE trains, trucks, autos, etc. Horse reins, balls, several sizes. Outdoor Playthings Sand box and sand toys, see-saw, slide, climbing ladder, yard blocks, boxes, swing. Manipulative Material Wooden beads for stringing, large size one inch in diameter.