[Vol21 | February 1934 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field]
Later an old man from the highlands of New York said, "Up there we believe in God and Father Abraham",
Notes from the Field
Our "Magazine Program', in the Springville Third Ward, sponsored by our magazine agent. Charlotta Black, was very interesting and successful. It was carried out as stated below.
1. The song, as outlined in the September magazine, was sung by our ward Relief Society Ladies' Chorus. They were dressed in large cartons decorated to represent covers of the magazine with an open magazine tied with a ribbon for a bonnet.
2. An interesting stunt was put on by twenty-one ladies, each bearing a letter of "Relief Society Magazine". Each lady, in a hat and dress of some member borrowed without the owner's knowledge, recited a comical bit about the lady whose name began with her letter.
3. The five editors then posed in a frame (see accompanying picture ) and short biographies of each were given. A member read "A Little Friend of Mine" from the September 1931 magazine. Two tiny girls in Halloween colors passed slips to the members which read as follows—
We, the members of the Third Ward Relief Society of Springville, resolve to read the Magazine from cover to cover and repeat the reading of each lesson, before the day on which the lesson is given.
Are you a subscriber?.......--Name......-.
This accompanying picture taken of the ladies who represented the past five editors, are as follows:
1. Susa Y. Gates—represented by Mary Ellen Sumsion McKenzie.
LADIES REPRESENTING THE FIVE EDITORS OF  
2. Emmeline B. Wells—represented by Sophia Packard.
3. Lula Greene Richards—represented by Adrian J. Gore.
4, Alice L. Reynolds—represented by Grace Baker.
5. Mary Connelly Kimball—represented by Charlotta Black.
Recently I attended the Salt Lake Stake Union Meeting. It was a joy to see how the supervisors of each department had so many helpful suggestions for their teachers. One wished she could divide herself and go into each section. Each year this Stake selects an aim on which it labors. In various ways it puts it over. On Work and Business Day, this aim is featured. The aim for this year is "We believe in progression through the learning and living of Gospel principles." For the nine months when the Relief Society holds meetings, they have what they call nine stepping stones that develop this aim. I visited the Activity Department and the following helpful things were given.
1. We believe in progression through activity.
2. We believe in progression through study— Magazine, Textbooks, General material.
3. We believe in progression through faith— Deity, Self, Fellow-man.
4. We believe in progression through service.
5. We believe in progression through self-expression.
 . We believe in progression through obedience to law— Land, Church.
7. We believe in progression through appreciation— Membership and the Church, Friendships gained, Opportunities provided.
8. We believe in progression through developing Motherly virtues.
