OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 541 It might be interesting to know that those chosen as offices were representing five nationalities. It is wonderful how the gospel can blend such a cosmopolitan group of women into such unity. English, Hawaiian, German, Chinese, and Spanish all with a testimony of the divinity of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Canadian Mission. The Canadian Mission Relief Society was organized on August 1, 1919, with Mrs. Margaret S. Jensen, wife of President Nephi Jensen, as president. The branches are: Bracebridge, Brantford, Hamilton, Preston, Toronto, and Winnipeg. The combined total membership is fifty-eight members. During the year of 1919 this branch disbursed $59.60 for charity purposes. Relief Society visitors spent 104 days with the sick and made 138 special visits to the sick. New Stakes — Cache-Logan. On June 5, 1920, Cache stake was divided, the northern division retaining the name of Cache stake and the southern division to be known as the Logan stake. The stake officers and board members of the old Cache stake who had served faithfully and well, were honorably released. Mrs. Minnie B. Caine, formerly second counselor in the old stake, was appointed president of the Cache stake Relief Society, and Mrs. Ellen Barber, a member of the former stake board, was appointed president of the Logan stake. The general board desires to express grateful appreciation for the splendid work done by Mrs. Lucy S. Cardon and her co-workers during the many years they have labored faithfully and incessantly in the interest of Relief Society work in the Cache stake. Oneida-Franklin. The Oneida stake was divided on June 6, 1920, into what will now be known as the Oneida stake and the Franklin stake. Mrs. Nellie P. Head, who was serving as stake Relief Society president at the time of the division, was retained as president of the new Oneida stake. Mrs. Veroka G. Nash was appointed president of the Franklin stake. Duchesne-Roosevelt. The Duchesne stake was divided on June 26, 1920. One division will retain the name of Duchesne stake, while the other division will be known as Roosevelt stake. Mrs. Clara Hanson, who has for several years presided over the Duchesne stake, was appointed president of the New Roosevelt stake. Mrs. Evelyn Moflfat was appointed president of the Duchesne stake. 
 Bacteria War. The famous Dr. Charles H. Mayo, of Rochester, Minn., ,has lately been prophesying that the next war would be one of bacteria, dropped from airplanes over enemy cities. He says: "As science advanced, it would make it almost impossible for armies to fight. In the future what will war be like? It will be a war of invisible organisms, it will be a war of dropping capsules of bacteria which will have the most destructive effects." How infinitely easy it would be for men to be destroyed from the earth, or any section thereof, through such fiendish attacks upon defenseless human life. What the future holds for us only the Lord and his angels may tell. Woman Dormant. A Mr. John M. Glenn, who is the secretary of the Illinois Manufacturing Association, has rushed into print with some charges about the modern man and modern woman which might well give civilization pause if it were all true. He says that man has already become the drone of the hive while the woman is the worker. She is busy with typewriter and ledger and the affairs of industry. She fills orders for all sorts of commodities, turns machinery, works on civic projects, municipal improvements, and fights great battles for progress, commerce, art, and religion. Woman is elbowing man out of his own sphere, so Mr. Glenn says, in every line of endeavor, from petticoats to politics. What the world needs is the gospel of Jesus Christ with the ideal relationship of man and woman as they are taught and practiced in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Things are getting no better fast. NOTICE. Will all writers, correspondents, and contributors to the "Magazine," who have any business with the editor of the "Magazine," kindly address their communications to the editor, Mrs. Susa Young Gates. Do not send such material to the business office, but to the editor. Will our contributors please take notice?