Care of Clothing What Do You Want of Your Clothing? You must answer that question before you can plan wisely. Do you not want these things: Protection from cold, heat, moisture, and rough surfaces. Freedom in movement, breathing, and standing. Beauty: You will get this by choosing materials, colors, and designs suited to you and your occupation. Self respect: Clothing which is appropriate, becoming, inconspicuous, clean, neat, and within our means makes ourselves and our neighbors think well of us. What Kinds of Clothing Do You Need? Have you tried thinking of the different kinds of garments? How many of each should you have? They can be put into three groups. Outer clothing. Coats and sweaters;  suits;  dresses;  blouses, shirts, and waists;  skirts;  trousers;  hats and caps;  gloves and mittens;  boots, shoes, and overshoes;  gaiters, and leggings;  furs. Underclothing. Knitted vests, underdrawers, and union suits;  drawers;  corsets and under waists;  chemises, corset-covers, and combinations; petticoats;  stockings and socks;  suspenders and garters;  nightdresses, nightshirts, and pajamas;  bathrobe and wrappers. Accessories. Collars and cuffs;  belts;  handkerchiefs;  mufflers and scarfs;  veils;  handbags and pocketbooks;  umbrella;  etc. Care and Findings. You need to think, too, of the cost of cleaning, repairs, renovation, and remodeling. If you sew at home you will need needles, pins, thread, sewing silk, buttons, hooks and eyes, snap-fasteners, tape, braid, and other findings. How Much Should You Spend. About how much did you spend for each group last year? Does this seem a good apportionment of the money you spend for the family clothing? Outer clothing 70 per cent. CARE OF CLOTHING 525 underclothing 20 per cent, accessories 5 per cent, and care and findings 5 per cent? This would mean: A B C D E F $1,200.00 $180.00 $126.00 $36.00  9.00 $ 9.00 1,500.00 225.00 157.50 45.00 11.25 11.25 2.000.00 300.00 210.00 60.00 15.00 15.00 3.000.00 450.00 315.00 90.00 22.50 22.50 (a) Income;  (b) total clothing;  (c) outer clothing;  (d) underclothing: (e) accessories;  (f) care and finding. Plan What to Buy. Go over all the garments on hand and decide: (1) What is ready to wear. (2) What needs a little freshening. (3) What is worth remodeling. Decide what new things are needed to complete the wardrobe for the season. Estimate what it will cost to put the old in order and buv the new. If this comes to more than you ought to spend, decide what you can best go without. If it is less, decide what you would like most to add. Put down on paper what you plan to spend for the principal items of outerclothing, underclothing, accessories, and care and findings. Consult this plan whenever you spend money for clothing and follow the plan. Keep in mind experiences which will help you to plan more wisely for another year. Homemade and Ready-made Clothes. Which are better economy for you? If you spend the same money, do your homemade clothes usually have better materials, better workmanship, but take more time and energy? Do your ready-made clothes have better style and take less time and thought? Do these differences always hold true? If you make part and buy part, make those which you can do best and most easily and on which there is the greatest saving in money. Buy those which trouble you most to make and which are easiest to find ready-made in good quality. N. B. Remodel only when you are sure the material has enough wear in it to warrant the work and the cost of the new material necessary. Hints for Buyers. Go shopping with a definite purpose;  do not be lured into purchases which you have not planned. 
 Choose slowly and thoughtfully. Learn to recognize quality. A reliable salesman will help you in this. Do not expect great savings from the bargain counter unless you are a good judge of materials. Choose good materials for things that will get hard wear. Avoid novelties and fads in design and color. They soon become tiresome and the price usually protects the merchant against loss from left-over stock. Reckon in advance how much material you need. In buying ready-male clothing, insist on good materials, style, and workmanship. If you always do this the dealers will be encouraged to supply them. Be sure that the thing you choose is becoming to you and Appropriate to its purpose. Buy the thing that will serve for more than one sort of 'occasion or time of year. Look for simplicity of line and decoration. Garments extreme in style are never economical and rarely becoming. Outergarments. Hang carefully when not in use. Plenty of rods and hangers save space and prevent wrinkles. Keep covers over delicate garments or others worn only occasionally to protect against dust and rubbing. Do not keep partly-soiled garments in an unaired place. They are likely to become discolored. Fold carefully all garments kept in drawers or boxes. In putting garments away for the season, guard against wrinkling, stretching, fading, and insects. Fold so that creases will correspond as far as possible with the folds into which the garment falls in use. Do not allow weight to rest on folded garments. Garments of firm materials may be left hanging if carefully covered against dust and insects;  but sleazy materials, heavily trimmed garments, and circular skirts are likely to be stretched out of shape by their own weight. Keep in the dark to avoid change in color. Removable and washable collars, cuffs, and linings save cleaning in women's dresses, waists, and coats. Undergarments. Reinforce, in making, parts subject to hard wear. Sew buttons on children's garments through several thicknesses of cloth to prevent tearing out. Run a few threads back and forth in the heel and toe of a new stocking. Darn promptly small holes in stockings and other knitted CARE OF Clothing 527 underwear. A stitch in time saves the garment. Rub a piece of soap across the end of a run to stop the run until you can mend it. Wash stockings frequently. It prevents continued strain on the same part of the stocking, and rotting and change of color from perspiration. Wash new stockings before wearing to remove the sizing;  otherwise holes may appear at once. Wool. Brush and shake outergarments after each use. Brush with the nap. Keep tailor-made garments carefully pressed. Cover with a thick damp cloth and use a heavy, hot iron. Some of the special boards and cushions used by tailors are convenient and may be made at home. Remember that "shine" is caused by the wearing down of the nap and sometimes by grease. Remove by sponging, pressing, and brushing up the nap with a stiff brush. A tablespoon of ammonia may be used to a quart of tepid water for sponging. Protect woolen garments against moths by brushing and shaking thoroughly out-of-doors, and in the sun if possible then;  wrap carefully. Remember that the harm is done not by the millers, but by the caterpillars which develop from the tiny eggs which the millers lay. Tar bags, cedar boxes, mothballs and other "repellants" may prevent millers from getting in to lay eggs, but can not be relied on to prevent eggs already there from hatching. Guard against carpet beetles or "buffalo moths" in the same way. Send to the Department True Clothes of Moths. Agriculture for Farmers' Bulletin 659, The Silk. Remove dust by wiping with a piece of velvet, a soft cloth, or a soft brush. Avoid pressing with a hot iron;  the heat injures the fiber and sometimes the color. Remove shine by sponging and pressing. Use one tablespoon ammonia to one quart tepid water. Wash out silk stockings, socks, and underwear frequently;  it prolongs their service. Shoes. Have shoes carefully fitted. Well-fitting shoes look better and wear better, besides being more comfortable. Poor quality shoes are seldom economical. 
 Alternate two pairs;  they last longer. Slip shoe-trees into shoes when you take them off;  it makes them keep their shape longer. Keep shoes clean and well-brushed;  a dressing made with a little oil and well rubbed in prolongs the wear of leather and kid. Clean canvas shoes on shoe-trees to prevent shrinking. Sponge with a little water and soap that contains whiting or use a commercial cleanser. Dry wet shoes slowly on shoe-trees or stuffed with paper. Protect shoes with rubber in wet weather. Even with careful drying the moisture tends to rot the sewing threads. Do not wear run-down heels;  they spoil the shape of the whole shoe. Have small rips mended at once;  often they can be sewed at home. Gloves. Buy gloves of good material, well-stitched, and well-fitted; they are cheapest in the end. Prolong the life of gloves by blowing up and pulling gently into shape after use and mending rips as soon as they start. Reliable dealers will repair worn places at small cost. Consider the question of cleaning when choosing light colored gloves;  delicate shades of kid or fabric ore not so likely to hold their color as white;  ordinary white kid gloves need frequent cleaning, which is often difficult at home and expensive at the cleaner's;  white cotton and silk wash easily but do not wear as long as good kid;  good grades of washable kid and chamois are satisfactory when properly cared for, but the original cost is high. Dry clean kid gloves in a jar of gasoline or benzine;  shake well;  keep changing the liquid until all dirt is removed. Pull gently into shape and dry in a draft. Caution: Work out-of-doors and in the shade. Never keep gasoline or benzine in the house or in the sun. Clean washable kid and chamois gloves in suds made of lukewarm water and mild soap. They keep their shape best if cleaned one at a time on the hand. Hard rubbing roughens the surface, especially on glazed kid. Rinse in clear lukewarm water. Slip carefully from the hand, pull gently and blow into shape;  dry slowly. Soften by rubbing gently between the hands, A little talcum powder rubbed in lightly will restore the finish to glazed kid. Caution: Strong soap and heat harden and darken washable kid and chamois. CARE OP CLOTHING 529 Wash silk and cotton gloves like knitted underwear. Pull gently into shape and dry. Hats. Intelligent care prolongs the life of hats, men's and women's alike. Keep hats looking fresh by dusting them before putting them away after each wearing. Use a soft brush • or, for fine felt, silk beaver, silk, satin or velvet hats, a piece of silk or velvet. Get the dust out from under the edges of bands, folds, and trimmings. Do not allow bands, bows, trimmings, linings, or sweat bands to become loosened;  tack them into place as soon as they begin to rip. Store your hats where they will not gather dust;  paper bags or hat boxes are good for those worn only occasionally. Daily care means longer wear. RENUNCIATION. Helen Kimball Orgiu Thou white-browed one, who, on the altar high, Doth offer that which to thy heart is dear, A sacrifice. A cause thou dost revere And love far more than all that earth can give. Thou knowest well Gethsemane's deep pain, Though ne'er a murmur 'scaped until at length Thy God looked down in mercy giving strength And peace. Then seemed to say, "It is enough!' Ah, soul of wondrous magnitude and grace. Who can with Christ taste of such sorrows deep! Be joyful. Know that such as thou canst keep The fullest glory of a heavenly bliss! Summary of Woman's Position in Newly-Enfranchised Countries Austria — Women have votes on the same terms as men. Two million women voted in January, 1919. There are eight women M.P.'s, twenty-two city councilors, one deputy mayor, and one hundred and twenty-six municipal councilors. British East India — Women got votes and legibility in 1919, on equal terms for white men and white women. They were enfranchised together. Canada — Women have votes on equal terms. The federal amendment is not yet ratified. Women have not yet voted in federal elections, but have in state elections, where three women members of state parliaments have been elected. Crimea — (the first Mohammedan country to give votes to women. Women got votes on equal terms in December, 1917. Eighty-three per cent voted, and five women were elected, one of whom is vice-president of the diet. Czecho-Slovakia — Women have votes on same terms as men. Thirteen women members are in the lower house, and three in the second chamber. Denmark — Municipal vote in 1908 and parliamentary vote on equal terms in 1915. Women voted in 1918 and 1920 and they have now four women members in each house. They have passed a law for equal pay, equal admission to all posts, and equal status in marriage. Estonia — Women have votes on same terms as men, and there are five women members of parliament. Germany — Women got votes on equal terms in 1918, eight weeks before the elections. Twenty million women are enfranchised, and 70 to 90 per cent have voted. They had thirty-nine M.P.'s in last national assembly, 155 in state legislatures, and 4,000 city and municipal councilors. In the new elections thirty women have been elected to the Reichstag. Great Britain — Women got votes on different terms and at a different age in 1918. They voted in 1918, and have one woman M.P., and many city and municipal councilors. Holland — (See Netherlands.) Hungary — Women got votes in November, 1918. All men have it at twenty-one, women, if they can read and write, have it at twenty-four. Having no constitution, they fear they may lose it again. One woman was elected at a byelection. They have not yet got the municipal suffrage, as