Notes from the Field
By Amy Brown Lyman
The General Board, through the Relief Society Magazine, expresses hearty appreciation for the numerous messages of love, good wishes, and confidence, which have been received at this the beginning of the new year, from missions, stakes, wards and individuals. The Board joins with every Relief Society woman in the organization in the wish that the year of 1923 will be one of the most prosperous and helpful years in the history of the great organization.
Nebo Stake.
FOUR PAIRS OF TWINS
Mr. And Mrs. C. M. Bird, of Payson, are proud grandparents of four pair of beautiful twins. Mrs. Bird was for many years a member of the Utah stake Relief Society board. We are printing herewith a picture of Mrs. Bird, her three daughters and the twins. The daughters of Mrs. Bird, reading from left to right are: Mrs. Jennie B. Hill, Payson, Utah; Mrs. Hannah B. Mendenhall, Mapleton, Utah; Mrs. Emogene B. Manwaring, Rexburg, Idaho. The twins, inserted are the children of Mrs. Bird's son, Freeman C. Bird of Payson. These twins were born six months after the group picture was taken. All four mothers, although kept busy with their home responsibilities, find time to assist in the Church organizations. Three are serving on auxiliary stake boards.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 87
Cache Stake.
On Monday, September 25, the officers of the Fourth ward Relief Society of the Cache stake, were honorably released after eight years of faithful service. A surprise party was held the following afternoon at the home of the retiring president, Johannah Murdock. The afternoon was spent in a pleasurable manner and a delicious luncheon was served. This ward has 115 enrolled members and of this number 114 are Magazine subscribers.
Raft River Stake.
The various Relief Societies of the Raft River stake did not discontinue meetings during the summer months, but they met and discussed special lessons in theology. During the last week of August a teachers' social was held in every ward of the stake, which stimulated interest in the winter's work.
Wasatch Stake.
A recent report from Wasatch stake gives the following interesting items: "The stake board holds weekly officers' meetings the first and third Tuesday evenings. We meet conjointly with other auxiliary organizations in teacher-training classes. The second and fourth Tuesday evenings are devoted to business or department work. Copies of all circular letters which have been sent to us from the General Board have been discussed in the president's department at our monthly union meeting, and copies have been forwarded to each of the wards with instructions to have them kept on file.
"We have divided the responsibility of the stake work among the members, placing a certain responsibility on each member. These board members know in a general way about the entire work of the organization, but each is striving with heart, mind, and soul to be an expert in her particular work. We find that with the distribution of the work no one is over-burdened and doing the work becomes a pleasure. The ward organizations are following the same method.
"Effort is being made to increase the subscriptions to the Magazine. Center ward has 17 enrolled members and 16 subscribers to the Magazine. The Wallsburg Relief Society sent 16 subscriptions of the Magazine to aged women and widows. The stake has placed the Magazine on the public library reading table. And has also placed bound volumes in the library. We hope to have our 75% subscriptions for next year.
"One stake board member, who is an expert seamstress, has charge of the burial clothes department, where those desiring to purchase temple or burial clothes may do so. Each ward also has


a burial clothes committee but the wards do not aim to keep clothing on hand.
"The stake board will give to the wards which make their average attendance 50% during the year, prizes of one dozen Relief Society Song Books each. It is hoped that it will be necessary to purchase nine dozen. The two wards falling lowest in attendance will entertain the other wards. Three of the wards already have over 50% average attendance, thus far in the year.
"The stake board has visited every ward at least twice during the year. During the month of May, a Mothers' Day program was given in each ward. The Midway First ward presented a Mothers' pageant. The stake board offered a gold medal for the best Mothers' Day essay, written by a student of the Wasatch High School. On the day the medal was presented, the Relief Society members of the stake were the invited guests of the high school, two numbers on the specially prepared program being given by our board members. The winner of the medal was an orphan girl.
"All of the wards have given cheer-up parties and have held special meetings for those who are homebound.
"Two stake board members and seven ward members attended Leadership Week at Provo, and one stake board member attended the Relief Society Week of the Brigham Young University Summer School.
"This stake has a stake teachers' committee and at the union meeting each month (at which ward teachers are invited to be present) the topic which is to be used for the coming month is discussed by a good speaker. We have tried to impress upon our teachers the sacredness of their calling and the duties connected therewith. We have urged that each pair of teachers do something special, occasionally, for the people of their particular district. Last year a pennant of white and gold (Relief Society colors) was given to the wards making 100% visits. Three wards made the 100% and none were less than 80%. Thus far this year 7 wards have made the 100%. The teachers have worked hard, and have tried to leave a worth-while message in every home.
"Fifty per cent of the enrolled members have visited the Primary Association during the year to encourage the officers and children, and fifty per cent of the enrolled members have visited the public schools.
"Suzy, the social service play, was staged and presented three times during the year under the direction of the stake board.
"During 1922, 75% of the stake board and 50% of the ward members read the Book of Mormon.
"By cooperation with the Farm Bureau, we are doing some
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 89
project work under the direction of the Agricultural College. So far, 157 dress forms have been made, 125 patterns have been drafted, (saving in patterns, $43.40); garments made, 97; cost of material, $125.00; cost of dresses if bought, $232.00; saving effected, $107.00. Under the health projects, 90 women have provided a shelf or drawer in which to place things to be used in case of sickness.
"The bishops and ward presidents work in unison in the distribution of charity, and have assisted those in need of help to find employment. We hope to take steps to have an employment agency."
California Mission.
In a letter received from Mrs. Margaret K. Miller, president of the Relief Societies of the California mission, she reports that she has visited all of the Societies except one in Arizona, and one in Nevada which has recently been organized. The California mission covers a large area, from northern to southern California, the southern part of Arizona, and a part of Nevada. Throughout the entire mission, there is a splendid spirit and the Relief Society women are earnest and energetic in their work. They visit the homes of the Saints and are constantly caring for those in distress. They are desirous of helping the missionaries and, they often entertain them in their homes. In some branches they have assisted in furnishing the quarters for the missionaries. In each community where there is a Society, the Relief Society Magazine has been placed in the public library.
The Boyle Heights branch Relief Society was organized June 13, 1922, with 9 members, and two months later the Society had a membership of 40.
The Long Beach Relief Society celebrated the eighth anniversary of its organization December 12, 1922. After the opening exercises, a delightful program was presented. At the conclusion of the program a social hour was spent in the branch amusement hall. A delicious luncheon was served to forty-five guests. Making an attractive centerpiece, was a birthday cake with eight candles. President Christina Larson reports that the affair was a thorough success.
Juarez Stake.
The Juarez and Dublan wards of the Juarez stake held a very successful bazaar in the early fall. Quilts, fancy work, and articles of clothing were made and contributed by the members of the Relief Society. The women also made woolen yarn and those who could not spin the yarn, knit stockings, and quite a sum of money was realized on this occasion. A program and dance was


held in connection with the bazaar, and the day proved to be a very enjoyable one.
South Sanpete Stake.
At the leadership course given at the Snow Junior College, December 7, 8, 9, 1922, a total of 717 were registered in the eleven departments. The Relief Society department made the best attendance record. There were in attendance 74 stake and ward Relief Society officers, and 72 members and visitors, making a total of 146. The official representation was as follows: South Sanpete, 27; North Sanpete, 19; South Sevier, 13; Sevier, 11; North Sevier, 4. The president of the college, Wayne B. Hales, was delighted with the response of the people of the district and the members attending were most grateful for the splendid opportunities offered by the institute. There were in attendance the following General Authorities and representatives of the General Boards: Rulon S. Wells, Bishop David A. Smith, Horace Cummings, Oscar A. Kirkham, John H. Taylor, E. E.