Dr. Romania B. Pratt Penrose By Annie Wells Cannon "A wondrous gift thou hast, I know thy power, To help the sick, to comfort in distress; Greater than riches is the potent dower, The magic touch that charms like a caress. "Tis good to do such deeds of usefulness, To be so calm, so wise, such skill to lend; To brave the world with such deep earnestness One cannot prize too highly such a friend." written expressly for Dr. Penrose, beautifully express the thoughts of the many friends who knew her and have felt the tenderness of her ministrations. The death of Doctor Romania B. Penrose which occurred November 9, 1932, marks the passing of one of the most prominent and beloved women of Mormondom. Dr. Romania measured up to the best as daughter, wife, mother, friend. She neither failed nor wavered at any task assigned her, nor any duty imposed, reserving always the right to maintain her dignity and self-respect. In the profession which she so efficiently filled through a period of thirty-five years, she was not only the physician but the sympathetic motherly nurse; in her social relations, friendly, sincere and helpful; in her church affiliations loyal and devout. is above lines, part of a poem FEW women are endowed with more gracious qualities. She possessed a brilliant mind, a keen sense of humor, a constant desire for knowledge that never left her. Even in the last few years of her retired invalidism she kept her mind in touch with the world's progress. Through the mediums of the press and radio, like one in the midst ?E. B. Wells. Of the day's turmoil. These qualities primarily enabled her to meet life's exigencies bravely, to overcome difficulties, which only too frequently beset her path, to solve problems which might have dismayed one less courageous and make life always interesting and worth while. R. ROMANIA was a beautiful woman without the aid of fine adornment, small in stature, refined in nature, with clear cut features and, in her younger years, a wealth of soft brown hair which hung in natural curls over her shoulders. In looks much the type of Elizabeth Barrett Browning. Nevertheless she was fond of pretty things and in her travels along life's 'way possessed herself as far as her means permitted of pieces of rare lace, fine china, soft furs and rare books which perhaps too often she bestowed upon her friends for hers was a generous soul. She possessed many accomplishments acquired in her youth where in private schools she was taught music, art, and German, besides the usual scholastic training. These accomplishments not only added to her attractions but served as a means of support when in the early days in the 'valley she had to help her widowed mother support the family. DR. ROMANIA B, PENROSE ROMANIA B. PENROSE was born at Washington, Whyne Co., Indiana, on the 8th of August, 1839. Her parents, Luther B. And Esther M. Bunnell accepted the teachings of the Gospel and moved to Nauvoo, Ill., when she was about seven years old. They left that ill fated city at the time of the exodus and journeyed to Winter Quarters on the "edge of the wilderness."' The one incident which impressed itself most indelibly upon the mind of the little child at that time was the departure of the Mormon Battalion, _ the story of which she often related in later years. Her father felt unwilling to remain on the frontier with his little family and decided to take them back East to Ohio, his native state, until things looked more propitious for their welfare, which he did in all good feeling hoping later to follow the Saints to their looked-for Zion. At the time of the gold rush to. California, 1849, Luther Bunnell joined a company bound westward hoping to acquire sufficient means to bring his family to Utah, but fate was against him and he died of fever in the gold camps. He, however, had accumulated a quantity of gold and cached it and this, recovered by a relative was found sufficient for their emigration and the purchase of a home in the valley, where they arrived in September, 1855. That was a trying time, the grasshoppers had destroyed every green thing, prices were high and food hard to get. It was then Romania, just sixteen, began to teach. Soon her earnings were supplemented by a legacy received from the Bunnell estate and with many comforts and things desired they again looked happily on life when "the move" to Provo came because of the expected arrival of Johnston's army. The little home
721
with its much prized piano, a great luxury in those days, was left ready to be fired the same as other homes should the army carry out its threats and take the city, but fortunately these difficulties were skilfully manipulated and the people able to return and occupy their homes again finding everything unmolested.