To the Relief Society Address Delivered at Relief Society Conference Oct. 1932 By Elder George Albert Smith, of the Council of the Twelve
WHENEVER I go to Relief Society Conference, and I have been going for a long time, I always enjoy a sweet influence, and I feel that I am looking into the faces of women who are the backbone of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The members of this great Church have been honored in many ways, but I know of no group of women in the world that has been more honored than the Relief Society organization. Today I opened one of the most interesting publications that it has been my pleasure to have in my library. I do not suppose many of you know what it is, but I am going to recommend it to you Relief Society workers as a little book that contains a lot of information that would be useful to you. It is called "The Handbook of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." I was delighted when I opened it today, I do not want to have you think that is the first time I have opened it. I have it among my treasures, and today I got into my treasure chest. The thing that interests me is that it contains so many things I ought to have known and many things I have known about this remarkable organization. Among all the women's organizations in the world this one, in my judgment, stands first. We have been marking the pioneer trails. I may get myself into difficulty by making a recommendation, but I think there is one thing lacking in the City of Nauvoo. There ought to be a monument to the Relief Society in that city. The Church was not organized there. We should have a monument where the Church was organized and will have, no doubt, but I think this great women's organization ought to be dignified at its birthplace by a fine monument. When I think of what the women whose names are in this record and those who have followed them have done for this Church and for humanity there is not any good thing that can be done to perpetuate their memories with which I would not be glad to be associated. Think of what the Lord has required of this group of women. You have been unusually honored. Your particular organization was brought about under the direction of a Prophet of the Lord. We have all kinds of societies in the world but it is rather remarkable to have the women's organizations of this Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints called together by a prophet of the Lord, and to receive at his hands instructions calculated to place your names foremost among the women of the world. I think that is wonderful. I understand that there are 66,800 women in this organization. What may you not do in the interest of righteousness if you are doing your full duty? There is power that cannot be measured, and I feel that the opportunity is here and now.
THIS old world is in an unfortunate condition, and it is fulfilling what the Lord said it would do. I turn here to the very first section of the Doctrine and Covenants, and read: "Wherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments." The Lord goes on to say that these commandments are for the children of men. They are to be disseminated among the peoples of the world. Still further he says: "For I am no respecter of persons, and will that all men shall know that the day speedily cometh; the hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion." You are living in that day. It was predicted a long time ago, but we are living in that age of the world. Every influence for peace ought to be exercised. Lucifer is exercising every means to destroy the souls of the human family. He is more active than he has ever been and he works in such an insidious way. I will not take time to enumerate the many ways he employs but there is one way in which he operates, and has operated from the beginning of the world, and that is to tempt one individual to destroy the reputation of another by saying unkind things of them.
IT is marvelous to me, as I read the Holy Scriptures, both ancient and modern, to find how many times our Heavenly Father has shown us the way to happiness. So many opportunities are presented for our welfare and how He has stressed these words of the English language, "charity and love." I know of no organization in all this world that ought to so fully exemplify the meaning of these two words as the National Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The measurement of the result of what love and charity may bring into the world is impossible. Opportunity is offered in every branch and ward and mission field to go about radiating sunshine, developing happiness and lifting up those who are discouraged, and bringing joy and comfort to those who are in distress, and the beauty of it is that when you are doing that you are only obeying the very instruction that was given by the Prophet Joseph Smith when the Relief Society was organized. Is it not wonderful to feel that you are identified with an organization, the mission of which is love? It is marvelous how that opportunity has been offered to you. When people are in distress you are permitted to go into their homes, not as beggars, not as intruders, not as those who go about putting themselves forward unnecessarily, but by divine appointment you have the right to go into the homes of those who are in distress, and if you have the spirit of your mission, as you should have, every home will be dignified and sanctified by your presence. There is no way of knowing how many lives have been uplifted and touched by this organization. I suppose there will be no means here on earth to discover how many souls have been made to feel that they are indeed children of our Heavenly Father. But there is a record being kept. That record will have inscribed upon it every performance of this faithful body of women wherever they may labor in all the world. God, our Heavenly Father, is not unmindful of these things. As you go to and fro in the performance of your duty, whenever you speak a kind word, or make a contribution of money or food, whenever you go out of your way to uplift those who are discouraged, you are making a permanent investment that will return to you an eternal dividend, and our Heavenly Father has promised you that dividend. Can there be anything more lovely or desirable than to be daughters of the living God with a mission to perform? You are called to labor for the salvation?not only the temporal salvation?but the spiritual salvation of your sisters. I am so grateful that your work is not limited alone to charity in the sense that we usually refer to it, but that it also includes the duty of disseminating truth, of going to and fro among the people of the Church, and bringing to them the message that will enrich their lives and determine in them that they will be better than they have been before.
IT is the little things that come into our lives that mean so much. I remember a delightful experience that came into my life as the result of a pilgrimage which was made into the wilderness of Wyoming a little less than two years ago. We came to that part of the trail where the Martin Handcart Company had lost so many lives. Near as we could, the place where they camped. Those who were descendants of that party were there to assist in placing a marker. Then we came to Rock Creek; a temporary marker had been placed there by us the year before. At that particular time of the year beautiful wild flowers were growing everywhere, the wild iris was plentiful, and members of the party gathered some of these flowers and laid them tenderly upon a mound of stone that had been piled up the year before by an aged man named Jackson, who was not of our faith. Here 15 members of this Church had been buried in one grave, they having died from hunger and exposure. You know there are times and places when we seem to come nearer to our Heavenly Father. As we sat around the camp fire in that little valley of Rock Creek, where the Willey Handcart Company had met disaster,?we who were descendants of the pioneers, of those who had crossed the plains in the heat of the summer and the cold of the winter?stories were told of the experiences of our ancestors. Our forebears had helped to make the trail so plain at this point. It was a delightful occasion. History was being repeated for our benefit. The next morning an unusual thing occurred. We were all gathered around the grave of these 15 people and there we sang "Hard Times Come Again No More." A sister played the accordion and a brother played the violin beautifully. I have never heard more tuneful voices than were there that beautiful morning. Then we joined in prayer and as we stood there it seemed to me that we were in the very presence of those who had given their all that we might have the blessings of the Gospel. We seemed to feel the presence of the Lord. As we walked away, after we had shed our tears?for I doubt if there was a dry eye in the group of about 30 or 40 people?the influence that came as a result of that little gathering had touched our hearts, and one of the good sisters took me by the arm and said, "Brother Smith, I am going to be a better woman from now on." This woman, if I were to mention her name, you would say is one of the best of women but I believe she was touched as probably most of us were, by the fact that in some particulars we felt we had not measured up to the ideals that should have been in our souls. The people buried here had not only given days of their lives but they gave life itself as evidence of their belief in the divinity of this work. The sweet influence enjoyed by us on that sacred occasion was full compensation for the effort to travel over the pioneer trail. If the members of this organization will be as faithful as were those who lie buried on the plains, who met their problems with faith in the Lord, you will add to your many accomplishments and the favor of a loving Father will flow to you and yours. There never has been a time, in my judgment, when kindness was needed more than now. These are the days when people's souls are being tried, and when their hearts are being wrung. These are the days when many are facing hunger and distress even among the Latter-day Saints. These are the days when the Relief Society of this great Church is offered an opportunity to major, in my judgment, as it has never done before. I believe that you will rise to the dignity of your calling.
THE perfunctory visit of the Relief Society ward teacher among the membership of this Church, if it has been a routine call heretofore, may become a more blessed duty and you will be real ministering angels carrying to the discouraged food and clothing and the cheering influence of love. These are our opportunities. I do not know when we have had such a privilege before. I believe our Heavenly Father is giving us our opportunity for development. We will find out now whether those who have claimed membership in His Church are worthwhile; we will discover now whether the love the Savior said should be in our hearts is among us. I will say that the General President of Relief Society with her board, the Stake Presidents with their boards and the Ward organizations with their membership, should be a sisterhood unparalleled among the people of the world demonstrating kindness and love.
SOMETIMES we have authority granted unto us. Our Heavenly Father has referred to it in the Doctrine and Covenants. You will find He says it is the nature and disposition of almost all men as soon as they get a little authority, as they suppose, to begin to exercise unrighteous dominion. He did not say that to the women, as far as I know, but I want to say that women in this particular are not unlike men. Generally they are more tender but sometimes they use authority in a dominating manner and wound the feelings of their sisters unrighteously. The President of this great organization ought to be the one to set the example to all the women of the world by a consecrated life of righteousness, love, tenderness, patience and charity that should go forth from the head organization into every department. Then it will be found in every stake that those who preside will manifest the same attitude toward their associates and in every ward these fine women will feel it a privilege to manifest the tenderness and love and consideration that they have had in their hearts for those who associate with them. You know in this organization you are given presidents and counselors. No president has the right to dominate or dictate. I am not assuming that they do. I hope you will not misunderstand me. The thing I want to emphasize is this: Our Heavenly Father has placed in these organizations three members. It is not just a president, it is a presidency, and when these three work together as our Heavenly Father has intended they should in every ward in this Church, under the supervision of the bishop, they add a strength that cannot be estimated to carry forth the benefits of the Gospel to the people of the ward in which they reside. It is a wonderful privilege these stake presidents with their counselors exercise. Use your counselors, honor your counselors, love them and do not be jealous of them. One of the mistakes we have made in this world is that we look askance at those who are favored more than we. How slowly this Church would progress if the leaders operated in that way. I stand here tonight to speak of a man who has several years ago gone home. Many people looked upon him with fear. I refer to Francis M. Lyman and I want to say to you that that great man was as tender as a baby, just as tender as a little child, and his desire to help and encourage was beautiful. I have heard him compliment his brethren many times when they have done something praiseworthy?one had delivered a fine address, another had borne a convincing testimony, another had done something else praiseworthy. I have seen him put his arm around them and say, "I am proud of you and the fine thing you have done." Is not that a commendable way to live? That is the way to make ourselves happy. If, instead of being jealous, we see and appreciate and commend the virtues and abilities of our fellows, if we see the power for good in our sisters, how much better it will be. Many of us live in such an atmosphere that we are almost dumb when it comes to praising somebody else. We seem unable to say the things that we might say to our own advantage as well as to the blessing of others. Let us look for the virtues of our associates and observing them make them happy by commending them.
TONIGHT I wish I had time to read to you the uplifting ideals that are set forth in this fine handbook of the Relief Society. If you do not have a copy, and there are any available, get one and take it home. Before you read it kneel down and ask your Heavenly Father to give you His spirit that you may see what is offered to you in the way of opportunity. It is a wonderful thing. I feel sometimes we do not realize how these things operate. We are in the habit of erecting monuments to men. I want to tell you as I stand here tonight the most enduring monuments in this world have been erected in the home by women. I feel to say tonight that I loved my father?no man could love his father more?but when I think of the influence of my mother when I was a little tad I am moved to reverence and tears. When my father was away in the mission field, I remember as though it were yesterday, she took me by the hand and we walked up a flight of stairs to the second story. There I knelt before her and held her hand as she taught me to pray. Thank God for those mothers who have in their hearts the spirit of the Gospel and a desire to bless. I could repeat that prayer now and it is a great many years since I learned it. It gave me an assurance that I had a Heavenly Father, and let me know that He heard and answered prayer. When I was older we still lived in a two story frame house and when the wind blew hard it would rock as if it would topple over. Sometimes I would be too frightened to go to sleep. My bed was in a little room by itself, and many a night I have climbed out and got down on my knees and asked my Father in Heaven to take care of the house, preserve it that it would not break in pieces and I have got back into my little bed just as sure that I would be safeguarded from evil as if I held my Father's hand. What a power our Heavenly Father has bestowed upon you mothers. One of the most wonderful stories contained in the Book of Mormon is the story of the sons of Helaman. I wonder sometimes as I see mothers leaving their children to the care of somebody else, seeking the social privileges of life, how many of them have read the story of the 2,060 sons of Helaman. I want to say to the mothers of this Church, if they will do their duty, they hold in their hands a power for righteousness and an uplift for a race of people not yet born that will have something more to do than we have yet done, and it will take giants all their time to do it. So, I say, along with love, along with tenderness, along with charity and kindness to your associates, teach your daughters that are soon to become the mothers of men, what a power is placed in their keeping, and how they may exercise it to bless the world. This is not the work of man; this is not the work of Joseph Smith or those who followed after. This is our Father's work; this is the Church that bears the name of the Redeemer of mankind, and how we should prize our membership and our fellowship, and we ought to so live that our fellowship would be complete, that there would be no drawing apart in suspicion because of anything that we may do. If the people of this world are to retain their faith in God it will fall very largely upon the women of this Church to plant this feeling in the hearts of the growing boys and girls and bring into their lives a desire to be worthy of the image in which they have been created. It is said that the Jewish women of the world have been the purest of all women for generations. When young girls they have been taught that the Messiah is to come and perchance if they, as the daughters of Judah, will keep themselves clean, they may become the mother of the King of Judah. The result has been that all down the ages these women have prized their virtue, they have safeguarded it as life itself and I am thinking tonight what influence that has had upon the race they represent. You Relief Society women who have been blessed with a knowledge of what God has given to the children of men, train your daughters, train your sons, inspire in them a desire not to be like the world is but to so live that they may be worthy to be the earthly parents of choice spirits yet to come to earth. Reference was made tonight by Sister Hyde to the large families in the Islands, of five or six children?why that family would look small as compared with the original pioneer families in Utah. It was marvelous how God blessed them, and do you know that the strength of this Church in most cases has descended from these large families. One of the greatest and richest of all your blessings will be that which comes if you teach as you should, and train as you should these choice spirits that our Heavenly Father is sending to the world in this latter day. When you go to your homes do not leave the training of your children to the public schools. Do not leave their training to the Primary, to the Sunday School, to the Mutual Improvement Association. They will help you and make a fine contribution but remember what God himself has said, that parents who do not teach their children faith in God, repentance and baptism and the laying on of hands when eight years of age, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. This is not a threat, my brethren and sisters, that is the kind and loving advice of our Heavenly Father who knows all things and understands and realizes what it means when children are allowed to grow up without this training. I want to say that if Latter-day Saint parents are at home where they ought to be, teaching the things they ought to teach, they will be laying the foundations for a group of men and women that, in the not very far distant future, will be carrying on the work of the Lord. We may cry to the Lord with all our might to preserve our sons and daughters, but unless we make our own contribution, I feel that we will awaken when it is too late to the fact that we have been sleeping upon our opportunities.
IT is a wonderful thing to know that this is our Father's Church and to know that the Redeemer, our elder brother, will, in the not-far-distant future, preside over this organization as King of the Kingdom of Heaven. It is a wonderful thing to know that upon this earth, not far from now, will be established the Celestial Kingdom, and the offer has been made to every one of us to become members of that kingdom. Are we doing our best, are we living as we ought to live? What a joy, what a comfort, what a satisfaction can be added to the lives of our neighbors and friends through kindness. How I would like to write that word in capital letters and emblazon it in the air. Kindness is the power that God has given us to unlock hard hearts and subdue stubborn souls and bring them to an understanding of His purposes, and to this great and wonderful organization is given opportunity to major in that field. I am grateful to be here, thankful for this fine organization you have; thankful for the sustaining power that you give to these presiding officers, thankful to them for the influence they exert by love and kindness and consideration of one another, thankful to you for what you do in your stakes and wards along this line. But do not forget no matter how much you may give in money, no matter how you may desire the things of this world to make yourselves happy, your happiness will be in proportion to your charity and to your kindness and to your love of those with whom you associate here on earth. Our Heavenly Father has said in very plain terms that he who says he loves God and does not love his brother is not truthful.
OUR conference is at hand. This is the beginning of a great period in the history of the Church. Unusual conditions are all around us and the Lord has offered to you and to me the privilege of speaking the kind word, of giving of our substance, of blessing our fellowmen at a time when it will be appreciated as much as it ever will be in the history of this world. Are you fine women going to take advantage of your opportunity? If you will do that, I can promise you, as a servant of the Lord, that there will be added to your life happiness and satisfaction and comfort, and your homes will be the abiding place of the spirit of our Father, and your sons and daughters will grow up in the ways of the Lord and the people of the world will look to you and say they not only believe the teachings of our Heavenly Father but they accept them.
MAY the Lord add His blessing and give you the things you need in righteousness and help us all to be worthy of our marvelous heritage and the privileges and blessings of our Father's kingdom. And by and by, for it will not be long for most of us, when the light goes out of our eyes and when our spirits take their flight and when we stand before the Great Judge, who will know all that we have done, may we receive at the hands of the Master of Heaven and Earth that wonderful welcome home: "I bless you, my daughter; I bless you, my son. You have honored me, you have been good to your brothers and your sisters, and in proportion to your faithfulness I now give unto you what you have earned." And won't it be wonderful to have said to us: "Your place is in my Celestial Kingdom; you are crowned with glory, immortality and eternal life, to have the companionship of your Redeemer who will be your law giver, your instructor and your King evermore." I pray that this may be our privilege, in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen.