DR. ROMANIA B. PENROSE
FEBRUARY 23, 1859, Romania was married to Parley P. Pratt, eldest son of Parley P. Pratt the apostle. They had seven children two of them a little son and the only daughter dying in infancy. In their early married life they met many reverses and had several business disappointments which were most discouraging. It was at this period, when she was assisting her husband in editing and publishing his father's autobiography that the call came to her from President
722
Brigham Young to go East and study medicine. She explained her financial difficulties and domestic cares and with his wise counsel these matters were arranged and the course in medicine made possible. She accepted the call which in reality was a mission and left her four young boys to the protecting care and guidance of her mother. The wisdom which actuated the call was never questioned. Young men and women were settling in far places carrying out a plan of colonization in the western territory where there were neither doctors nor nurses. Under such conditions lives were constantly jeopardized and it was evident this danger should be overcome. Dr. Romania was the first of a number of women to go East to study medicine not only for practice but to teach classes of women in the art of nursing and midwifery.
SHE graduated from the Woman's Medical College in Pennsylvania in 1877, spending the winter vacations at the Hospital for Women and Children in Boston. Two years after graduation she went to New York City and took courses of study at the Eye and Ear Infirmary under eminent specialists. Upon her return she held classes in obstetrical science and nursing. Hundreds of women came from the country towns to these classes to return and render this much needed service.
WHEN the Deseret Hospital was opened in 1882 Dr. Romania was a member of the board of directors and an attending physician having special care of the eye, ear and throat cases. In 1887 she became resident physician and in connection with the hospital opened and conducted a school for nurses.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
WHEN the Relief Society central board was organized in 1880 by President John Taylor, Dr. Romania was appointed assistant general secretary to Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, a position she held until the incorporation of the Relief Society in 1891, when the General Board of Directors was chosen. She then became one of the directors, a position she held for thirty years. As a member of this Board she traveled extensively both in the stakes of the Church and the missions. She was a pleasing and instructive speaker and a valuable member on committees for Relief Society work.
EVER mindful of her responsibility to her boys she provided for their education and welfare as well as in her power lay and when in later years they began making homes for themselves she became the wife of President Charles W. Penrose. January 1907 President Penrose left home to preside over the European Mission and she accompanied him. Besides doing her part as the mother in that mission Dr. Romania engaged in some fine Relief Society work. During the first year she assisted in organizing 19 branches in the British Mission and reorganizing many others. She also attended by appointment from Governor John C. Cutler of Utah, The Woman's International Suffrage Alliance held at Amsterdam, Holland, in June, 1908, where she made an address on Suffrage in Utah and other Western states which was very well received. The following year in May, 1909, she again attended an International gathering of women in London, England, as a delegate from the Relief Society and took part in the discussions. She also, with her husband, went with President Joseph F. Smith's party on a
DR. ROMANIA B. PENROSE
trip through the Southern States where at Atlanta, Georgia, the new chapel was dedicated. On this journey a number of places of interest in Church history were visited.
DR. ROMANIA was a charter member of the Utah Woman's Press Club and the Reapers' Club, both founded by her friend Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells and both for the purpose of culture along literary lines; one more for general study, the other for training in writing for publication and newspaper work. Her contributions to these societies were excellent and many fine articles from her pen were published in local papers.
THE long years of her eventful life held no grace or quality more marked than her gentle and helpful motherhood. Her charities were many and unknown except to those benefited. Her professional attentions were just as liberal and as skillful to those who could not
723
pay as to the richer class of patients. Her friendships were loyal and unbounded, her faith sublime. She was a consistent Latter-day Saint in very deed. To such women come full recompense. During the long and unhappy illness of her aged mother she gave devoted service and in her last years of a like condition her children were equally attentive. Her son Mark and his generous wife Augusta at whose home she died bestowing sympathetic care and devotion. She leaves four sons, ten grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren. What a glorious heritage is theirs.
DR. ROMANIA'S long life, nearly a century, was filled with incidents of adventure and historic interest. To relate only the marvelous changes in the world which she witnessed would fill a volume, when finally life's curtain was drawn aside and she was permitted to join the loved ones gone before?the Choir Invisible?how welcome must have been that sweet repose.