Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (first Week in February ) Doctrine and Covenants AUTIUORITY TO ACT IN THE NAME OF GOD LESSON V 1. 'We believe that man must be called of God, by prophecy, and by the laying on of hands, by those who are in authority, to preach the Gospel and administer in the ordinances thereof." This declaration of faith sets forth in plain and unmistakable terms the attitude of the Church with respect to the rights which man must possess if he would act authoritatively in the name of God. According to the beliefs of the Latter-day Saints this authority, although vested in certain members of the early. Christian Church, was not present on the earth at the time of the restoration of the Gospel to Joseph Smith and his associates. It had been lost along with many of the principles and ordinances of the Gospel in the early Christian centuries. For this reason it became necessary to bring the Priesthood back to the earth, that again man might have authority to act in the name of God. 2. Meaning of the Term Priesthood. The term "Priesthood" as used by the Latter-day Saints has a dual meaning; it applies both to the authority or commission to act in the name of the Lord and to the individuals who possess this authority. The powers and functions of the Priesthood have nothing in common with those of the sectarian priest who is regarded by his parishioners as the medium through which worship, prayer, and other religious services are offered to the Lord. Indeed, such a conception is the very antithesis of the purpose of the Priesthood held by the Latter-day Saints, which not only authorizes the laymen and all others who hold it to go directly to the Lord but actually to function in his stead; whereas, the sectarian priesthood often serves as a kind of barrier between the laymen and God. 3. The Priesthood held by the Latter-day Saints is more than a functional matter, authorizing its holder to officiate in the name of Deity;; it is a power or influence that gives weight and efficacy to the thing done. In other words, a man possessing the Priesthood not only has the right to act in the name of the Lord, but the thing that he does is binding and effective. In_ still other words, the Priesthood is a special delegation from the Father, enabling those who are faithful to function in His stead, and thus to accomplish various things which would be impossible without the possession of this authorization. 4. President Young has made a very illuminating statement with respect to the nature of the Priesthood. Here it is: "If anybody wants to know what the Priesthood of the Son of God is, it is the law by which the worlds are, were. And will continue for ever and ever. It is that system which brings worlds into existence and peoples them, gives them their revolutions?their days, weeks. Months, years, their seasons and times and by which they are rolled 742 up as a scroll, as it were, and go into a higher state of existence." In a word, then, the Priesthood is the very power of God. Let us now give attention to the restoration of the Priesthood in latter days. 5. Priesthood Absent from the Earth. At the time of Joseph Smith's first vision the Lord spoke in no uncertain terms of the churches concerning which Joseph had inquired. After stating that their creeds were an abomination in his sight and that their professors were all corrupt, he continued, "They draw near me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me; they teach for doctrines the commandments of men, having a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof." (History of the Church, Vol. I, p. 6) This scathing denouncement was doubtless intended primarily for those who had exhibited such marked hypocrisy in the religious revival through which Joseph had just passed, rather than for the sectarian world generally as some may have thought. It was later made very clear however that the Priesthood was not upon the earth and therefore that no one was empowered to act in the name of God.
6. Bestowal of the Aaronic Priesthood. As early as September 21, 1823, the Lord promised that the Priesthood should be restored. (D. And C. 2:1) On the 15th day of May, 1829, when Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery were fervently importuning the Lord for information concerning baptism, reference to which had been found on the plates that they were translating, a messenger from heaven descended in a cloud of light, and having laid his hands upon them said: "Upon you, my fellow servants, in the name of Messiah I confer the Priesthood of Aaron, which holds the keys of the ministering of angels, and of the Gospel of repentance, and of baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; and this shall never be taken again from the earth, until the sons of Levi do offer again an offering unto the Lord in righteousness." (D. And C., Section 13)
7. The messenger said that his name was John, the same that is called John the Baptist in the New Testament, and that he was acting under the direction of Peter, James, and John, who in due course of time would confer upon Joseph and Oliver the Priesthood of Melchizedek. Having explained that the Aaronic Priesthood does not have the power of laying on hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost, he instructed that Joseph should baptize Oliver and afterwards that Oliver should baptize Joseph. After this was done Joseph ordained Oliver to the Aaronic Priesthood; then Oliver in turn ordained Joseph, also in compliance with command. The spirit of prophecy was enjoyed by Joseph and Oliver, both of whom predicted many things that should shortly come to pass. (History of the Church, Vol. I, pp. 39-42) Joseph explains that with their minds thus enlightened they were able to understand the meaning and intention of the scriptures much more clearly than before.
8. Restoration of the Melchizedek Priesthood. Although the Melchizedek Priesthood is known to have been conferred upon Joseph and Oliver by Peter, James, and John only a short time after John the Baptist's visitation, yet no specific account of the event is given in the Prophet's history or in any other of the Church annals. The Prophet himself however makes allusion to it in the course of an ecstatic review of the great things which the Lord had revealed to him, in the following language: "The voice of Peter, James, and John in the wilderness between Harmony, Susquehanna county, and Colesville, Broome county, on the Susquehanna river, declaring themselves as possessing the keys of the kingdom, and of the dispensation of the fulness of times." (D. And C. 128:20)
9. In a revelation dated August, 1830, the Lord himself makes direct reference to the restoration of the higher Priesthood through the instrumentality of Peter, James, and John. He is speaking of the sacrament and promises to drink of "the fruit of the vine" with Joseph Smith upon the earth, "also with Peter and James and John, whom I have sent unto you, by whom I have ordained you and confirmed you to be apostles, and especial witnesses of my name, and bear the keys of your ministry, and of the same things which I revealed unto you; unto whom I have committed the keys of my kingdom, and a dispensation of the gospel for the last times; and for the fulness of times, in the which I will gather together in one all things, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth." (D. And C. 27:12, 13) From the statement of Joseph and this one of the Lord it is apparent that the restoration occurred on the Susquehanna river some time between May 15, 1829 and August, 1830.
10. Another revelation dated April, 1830, contains a statement referring to Joseph's ordination, as follows: "which commandments were given to Joseph Smith, Jun., who was called of God, and ordained an apostle of Jesus Christ, to be the first elder of this Church." (D. And C. 20:2) It is of course evident from this statement that Joseph Smith had received the higher Priesthood prior to this time.
11. In still another revelation, dated June, 1829, in which the calling of the Twelve Apostles is made known, the following statement is addressed to Oliver Cowdery and David Whitmer: "I speak unto you, even as Paul mine apostle, for you are called even with that same calling with which he was called." (D. And C. 18:9) Since this statement would scarcely be made unless these men had already been ordained to the higher or Melchizedek Priesthood, it is evident that the restoration promised by John the Baptist occurred some time between the fifteenth of May and the close of June, 1829.
12. Power of the Priesthood. Thus at this early date in the history of the Church the Lord had restored full authority to man to act in his name. The lack of limitations to the authority of the Priesthood is well expressed in the following words: "Whatsoever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatsoever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven." (D. And C. 128:8) Speaking to Joseph Smith the Lord also said: "Whatsoever you seal on earth shall be sealed in heaven; and whatsoever you bind on earth, in my name and by my word, saith the Lord, it shall be eternally bound in the heavens; and whosesoever sins you remit on earth shall be remitted eternally in the heavens; and whosesoever sins you retain on earth shall be retained in heaven." (D. And C. 132:46)
13. Responsibility of the Priesthood. The authority of the Priesthood is not without its grave responsibilities. Its proper exercise is invariably associated with acts of righteousness and never with sin and disobedience. It encourages men to do good and shun evil. It governs by kindness and never by force. Apropos to this, the Lord has said "That the rights of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the Priesthood or authority of that man." (D. And C. 121:36-37)
14. The Gift of Prophecy. The Priesthood not only provides its holder with authority to accomplish the purposes of the Lord as above indicated but to do many other things that would be impossible without it. Consider, for example, the prophecy of Joseph Smith with respect to the American Civil War, (D. And C. 87:1-8) in which he foretold not only its coming and the precise locality at which it would begin, but also the parties involved and the identical nation upon which one of the participants would call for help. These and many other details were foretold with a prescience absolutely unnatural to human beings.
15. Necessity of Using the Priesthood. This brings us directly to the consideration that not every man who holds the Priesthood really profits by its possession. The Priesthood, like any other gift from God, can be developed only by faithful and persistent use. One of the strangest aspects of living things is that intelligent use increases efficiency, whereas disuse results in atrophy and decay. The fact that a man's mind, for example, develops by use constitutes one of the basic mysteries of life, and yet no one questions its reality. Moreover, there is little room for doubt that man's eventual salvation will be brought about by the development of his talents through exercise. The possession of the Priesthood without using it is no more profitable than the ownership of, say, a good automobile locked in the garage, indeed, far less, for God will not hold an individual blameless who thus disregards his privilege.
16. Widespread Participation. The Priesthood is intended for every son of God who is prepared to receive it. Accordingly, in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the Priesthood is widely held by the male laity, as well as by those in official positions. The equality of this practice is immediately apparent, especially in comparison with the practice of sectarian churches in which the presiding and other functional offices are reserved for a chosen few. The superiority of the Latter-day Saint practice is further apparent when it is borne in mind that personal participation is the only satisfactory means by which permanent progress is possible. Still another advantage is at once apparent. Consider the efficiency of our Church councils composed, as they usually are, of men from a wide variety of trades and professions. Surely the conclusions of such men are likely to be far better adapted to the needs of the masses than the conclusions of councils composed exclusively of clergymen.
17. And this is not all. Every male member in the Church is given some specific duty to perform, especially adapted to his capacity. With a working Priesthood of this nature, far greater efficiency is assured than in churches where the clergy alone are active. Moreover, the Priesthood of the Church possesses the actual authority to act in the name of God, and therefore its works are recognized of him.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Questions for Discussion and Review
Discuss the meaning of the term Priesthood. Give the details of the bestowal of the Aaronic Priesthood. Prove that the Melchizedek Priesthood was received soon after the bestowal of the Aaronic Priesthood. Explain the unlimited powers of the Priesthood. Why is activity necessary in connection with the Priesthood? Why is it desirable that the Priesthood should be widely held by Church members?
Teachers' Topic
THE BEATITUDES
Aim: To enable us to more fully appreciate the Beatitudes, and apply their beautiful truths to our daily lives.
"Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy." (Matt. 5:7)
President Brigham Young says "men should love mercy, because of its benevolence, charity, love, clemency, and all its lovely attributes, and be inspired to deal justly, fairly, honorably, meting out to others their just deservings. When a man designedly does wrong, he ought to be chastised for the wrong, receiving according to his works. If a man does wrong through ignorance, and manifests sorrow for the wrong, he is the one whom we should forgive seventy times a day, if necessary, and not the one who has designedly done wrong and repents not." (Discourses of Brigham Young.)
The Parable of the Unmerciful Servant (Matt. 18:23-35) shows us that mercy is for the merciful. "As a heavenly jewel it is to be received with thankfulness and used with sanctity, not to be cast into the mire of undeservedness." (Dr. Talmage's "Jesus the Christ.")
We are told that our salvation is made dependent upon our showing mercy to every creature that can feel. Every act of cruel amusement or cruel punishment, as well as every wanton act of cruelty, is strictly forbidden. It should be remembered that cruel speeches no less than cruel acts are forbidden by the commandments. Words can lacerate more deeply than stripes.
Many incidents of experiences with Indians in Pioneer days illustrate the statement "that the merciful man shall find mercy." The Lord is always merciful and kind. If we draw near unto Him, He will draw near unto us. "Seek me diligently and ye shall find me; ask and ye shall receive, knock and it shall be opened unto us." (Doctrine and Covenants 88:63.) Our chief trouble is we do not seek diligently. Our seeking is superficial, we seem to think the Lord is bound to hear us without our putting forth much effort. Let diligence and love be our guides, and we shall find the path to eternal life.
The Prophet Joseph Smith says. "Ever keep in exercise the principle of mercy, and be ready to forgive our brother on the first intimations of repentance and asking forgiveness, and should we even forgive our brother, or even our enemy before they repent or ask forgiveness, our Heavenly Father would be equally as merciful unto us."
The habit of charitable judgment of others is a source of personal blessedness. It blooms out into hopefulness, peace and faith. To forgive an injury is a blessing to the forgiver himself. The quality of mercy blesses him that gives as well as him that takes. Among the happiest of people are those whose grudges and enmities have been overcome by their own broader view of life. "It is as though in the midst of winter the warmer sun were already softening the frost. They are happy, not because others are kinder to them, but because that softer soil permits their own better life to germinate and grow. The merciful has obtained mercy; the blesser has received the blessing." (Mornings in the College Chapel ?Francis Greenwood Peabody? Chapter XXVI.)
Literature
THE DELIGHT OF GREAT BOOKS
THE ORDEALS OF RICHARD FEVEREL. MEREDITH
THE HISTORY OF A FATHER AND A SON
(Third Week in February)
"All that we hope to do for our children is to teach them to run their lives, not to teach them to allow us to run their lives for them."?Dorothy Canfield.
"The Ordeal of Richard Feverel" by George Meredith, one of England's greater novelists, is a masterpiece. Meredith's chief claim to greatness lies in the fact that his works, poetry and novels, demonstrate the theory that the function of art is to portray not the superficial truths of everyday life but the inner and spiritual truths of humanity.
George Meredith?Biography. Understanding is an obligation we owe to the writer of a great book, as a book when great "is the precious life-blood of a master spirit." Thus every great novel is, in fact, a spiritual autobiography. Because "The Ordeal of Richard Feverel" is peculiarly a record of the inner drama of the early life of George Meredith, we must, therefore, understand the man behind the novel.
George Meredith was born at Portsmouth, England, in 1828, the grandson of Melchisedec Meredith, a naval outfitter with social aspirations. Of Welsh extraction, proud of the blood of Gruffudh in his veins, "the Great Mel" was a dandy, a favorite with the ladies, and a spendthrift. The family seemed to suffer because of their uncertain social position, being not quite "gentry" yet they were superior tradespeople. Augustus Meredith, the father of George, resented the fact that the financial conditions of the tailoring business would not permit of his being trained for a doctor. The mother of George Meredith, Jane Macnamara, was of Irish extraction and a woman of refined tastes. George Meredith, a handsome precocious child, was left motherless at the age of five years. There never existed any sympathy between father and son. After failing in business, Augustus Meredith left Portsmouth, abandoning his son to the trustee of his mother's small fortune. After some years of general schooling the boy was sent to the Moravian School at Neuweid, Germany. This celebrated school attracted pupils from all parts of Western Europe because of its excellent course in education based upon "fullest liberty of thought and worship." Upon his return to England, George was articled to a London Lawyer. Law was distasteful to him, and it was early abandoned for an adventure in journalism as a contributor to the "Monthly Observer." Now George Meredith sets himself to train for his desire, to write poetry. Among the literary associates of this period was Thomas Love Peacock, novelist and poet. A literary friendship with Mary Peacock Nicholls, daughter of the novelist, began. She was the widow of a naval officer, a handsome woman of high spirits and temper, and ten years older than Meredith. The couple married after a hasty courtship, and started a lodging existence. Both were devoted to verse, but Meredith drudged at journalism for a livelihood snatching but little time for his poetry. A volume of "Poems" published in 1851 was ignored by the public, but received favorable comment from Tennyson and Stevenson. The adventure in matrimony was a failure, "a prolonged quarrel with literary interludes." George and Mary Meredith discovered that two highly strung temperaments, each emotional and quick to anger, could not find contentment. The conditions of their married life?debts, lodgings, unappreciated literary efforts?were conducive of tragedy. This ill-considered mating had the inevitable ending, separation. Mrs. Meredith abandoned her husband and five-year-old son, Arthur Gryffydd Meredith. In suffering Meredith, the man, said nothing, but later the spiritual tragedy was recorded in a poem, "Modern Love." Through experience the poet learned the lesson that it is through the suffering of mal-adjustment that man learns the lessons of Nature; that "Body, Brain, and Soul must be harmonized." After his wife's flight, Meredith went to London. The education of his son and his writing were his chief interests. Turning his attention to fiction, he lived with his characters and the ideas he made them illustrate by their actions. "The Ordeal of Richard Feverel" was produced. "By what magic?" asks the commentator. The answer, "By the magic of genius. By the force of a courageous manhood which did not let disaster drive it mad, nor allow the falsehood of one woman to mar the vision." And so Meredith built up out of his experiences a philosophy of life. The object of life, says Meredith, is education: purification of rebellious intemperate youth, humiliation of self-satisfied dogmatic age. The novel, "The Ordeal of Richard Feverel" was the vehicle of this wisdom. The reception of the book was chiefly unfavorable. The "London Times" recognized its greatness, while the "Athenaeum" and other leading journals pronounced it as disagreeable. Meredith felt keenly the unkind reception given to his novel. He went on with "Evan Harrington," an account of his family history and his own personal struggle with false pride, expressing the wisdom "that the accident which shows to youth its real condition with no softening veil is not a cruel thing but a guide to opportunity." Again criticism was unkind, but Meredith never turned back. For twenty-five years he kept on thinking and writing. "The Egoist," "Diana of the Crossways," "Lord Ormont and His Aminta," "Rhoda Fleming" are the more important novels. Hostile criticism continued, and recognition was long delayed. Old age and recognition came together, and George Meredith was permitted to rule the kingdom of English letters. In 1864 Meredith married Marie Vulliamy, of Huguenot extraction, a girl of twenty-four and an excellent musician. This companionship lasted twenty years, and was as happy as the first marriage was wretched. This ideal union was founded on love and equality?the gospel of love Meredith preached in his novels. Arthur, the son of the first marriage, had received from his father almost "Feverel-like" attention up to this time. He was a delicate, sensitive boy of eleven when his father married again. Resenting the change in the family affairs, Arthur became estranged from his father. Later the boy was sent to school in Switzerland. After completing his education, Arthur remained away from home. All aid from home was refused even when suffering from serious lung trouble. This tragedy of pride culminated in Arthur's death in 1890. The last forty years of Meredith's life was spent at Box Hill, Surrey. These years were rich in friendships; among them being W. E. Henley (author of "Invictus"), J. M. Barrie, John Morley, Leslie Stephen, R. B. Haldane, James Sulley. These "Sunday Tramps" often found themselves after tramping the beautiful Surrey country-side at Flint Cottage, Box Hill, especially in later years when George Meredith suffered from paralysis. Meredith was at his best among these friends. A brilliant conversationalist, he delivered to them "his really profound and poetic and humorous thoughts on men and things in a voice of mellowed maturity." The finely molded head often described as Greek with its bright eyes and finely chiseled features lent its charm also. It was with a genial unspoiled spirit, Meredith received the homage of his friends when they came to partake of his wisdom. On his eightieth birthday in 1908, Meredith received the full homage of the world of letters. He died at his home at Box Hill, May 18, 1909, and was buried by his wife in Dorking Cemetery. Meredith has been given the distinction "of being one of the few poets and novelists who claim a body of opinion and belief worthy to be called a 'philosophy'." While this philosophy is to be found in the novels, the best expression is contained in the "Essay on Comedy and the Uses of the Comic Spirit." For Meredith the essence of comedy "is the ability not only to laugh at the foibles of mankind, but first of all to identify yourself with the race before you smile." The generous recognition of our own mistakes will make us alert to the superficialities of life and appreciative of the genuine values. George Meredith began and ended his literary career as a poet, but it was his novels that made him famous. The poetry of Meredith is growing constantly in popularity. It expresses much the same sensitiveness to the beauties of nature and the problems of life that the novels do. As a novelist, Meredith took upon himself the mission to point out the value of neglected obvious things, rather than to display hidden motives. He is analytical of the individual in his relationships: to institutions, to society, to humanity. In this way Meredith brought to the novel a definite type of growth just as did Scott, Hugo and Dickens. Meredith gave to the novel psychological subtlety. Just as Scott delighted in the physical details of location and adventure; similarly, Meredith delighted in the details of intellectual adventures and spiritual conflicts. The modern novel, then, began with Meredith. He was a great and puzzling literary figure, a genius, author of one of the six best novels in the language, "The Egoist." Alton Brunt Summers has delightfully explained Meredith the novelist as follows; "After all the reader is sailing upon the gaily painted boat of fiction, not upon the sober brig of the essayist, nor upon the tall ship of the philosopher. However, the reader must not be diverted by the wise sayings of the captain from remembering that the Meredith craft is bound for the romantic waters of imagined experience and that it floats the simple flag 'true to Nature from the mast'."
The Ordeal of Richard Feverel.? Synopsis. The story is the history of a father and son. The father was Sir Austin Feverel, Baronet, of Raynham Abbey; the son of the baronet was Richard Feverel. The story opens when the father and son are deserted by the wife and mother. Sir Austin plans to devote his life to the education of his only son. The scheme of education for Richard was embodied in "The System," an elaborate document embodying all its author's theories for the education of the human race. By this program Richard is to develop into a model English gentleman, intelligent, frank, fearless, generous, and with a true estimate of his value in the world. Richard, left motherless at the age of five, is a likeable chap, much like other boys and devoted to his father. The household at Raynham Abbey was cluttered with relatives and dependents. Austin Wentworth and Adrian Harley, two nephews of the baronet, and Ripton Thompson, the selected boyhood companion of Richard, have the most important roles in the story. To Adrian, a young intellectual, is entrusted the formal education of Richard. Richard and Ripton behave much as ordinary boys. Their first serious adventure is the burning of the grain ricks of a surly farmer. The burning was the definite plan of Richard for revenge. The farmer had administered a severe whipping to the boy for shooting a pheasant on his land. This was the first indication the father had of the individuality of the son. A very carefully planned program of retribution for the grain-rick burning causes Richard to chafe and rebel inwardly through lack of sympathy with "The System", but he never lost confidence in his father. In Sir Austin's early Journal "The Pilgrim's Scrip" was written: "Between Simple Boyhood and Adolescence?The Blossoming Season?there is one Unselfish Hour, Spiritual Seed-time." Sir Austin took care that good seed should be planted in Richard, and that the most fruitful seed for a youth, namely, Example, should be of a kind to germinate in him the love of every kind of nobleness. "I am only striving to make my son a Christian," he answered them who persisted in expostulating with "The System." "First be virtuous," he told his son, "and then serve your country with your heart and soul." Seed-time passed smoothly. The son loved his father dearly. Next came, "The Magnetic Age, the Age of Violent Attractions, when to hear mention of love is dangerous, and to see it, a communication of the disease." All the members of the household at Raynham Abbey were given detailed instructions as to their behaviour during this very critical period of Richard's life. Sir Austin, meanwhile was searching for a desirable young lady, one fitted by education, instincts, and blood, to meet the need when Richard attained the age of twenty-five. Now Nature takes a hand and brings the young Hero's boat drifting down the river "to the Enchanted Isle where Ferdinand meets Miranda." Richard meets Lucy Desborough, orphan daughter of a poor naval officer and niece of the farmer of the grain-rick episode. What a complication for "The System!" Now four forces are at war; Sir Austin's love for his son, the son's love for his father, Richard's love for Lucy, Lucy's love for Richard. The son and father meet. Speaking from his own bitter experience the father argues the foolishness of young love. Lectures, deliberations, and separations only serve to enhance Richard's desire for Lucy. The love story of Richard and Lucy was beautiful, in fact, it has often been compared with the love of Romeo and Juliet. At last Richard decided to marry Lucy arguing, "If my father loves me he will forgive me for acting against his wishes, and see that it was the only thing to be done." In "The Pilgrim's Scrip" Sir Austin found recorded, "In all cases where two have joined to commit an offense, punish one of the two." The father, the author of "The System" was now on trial. "It was Pride that transformed Sir Austin's system of education into an intolerable ancient regime of parental absolutism." "The System" did not cause the tragedy, neither did love. Pride, the chief enemy of mankind, created the tragedy. Richard took Lucy to the Isle of Wight and returned to London to await word from his father. Sir Austin was silent. Then followed numerous plans and plottings by Lady Blandish and Adrian Harley to bring about the return of the son. While waiting in London, Richard yielded to the wiles of an enchantress and later followed her to Venice. Meanwhile, Sir Austin emerged from his struggle and decided to meet his son. When he arrived in London it was too late. Richard, distracted by his own helplessness, wanders from one reckless adventure to another. His education had not taught him the true way to honor. To Austin Wentworth fell the task of pointing the way. He brings Lucy and the baby to Sir Austin. He finds the wandering Richard in Germany and tells him of his son. All are home. In the coming home Richard finds his manhood. There are confessions to make to his loved ones. Then there is a duel to fight. Then the ordeal of Richard will be over. But not so. The forces of tragedy are not so easily dispelled when Pride has had the helm. Lucy dies, the body and brain crashing through suffering. "There is no greater tragedy on earth than when a mortal man makes himself a god and by that error kills the thing he loves." "We read first of all for the story and gradually we are stirred to think about the ideas that prompted the story?Then we come to understand how wise the book is and how noble is the study of human nature which it contains."
Suggestions for Study. A. Materials
1. The Delight of Great Books ?Erskine.
2. The Ordeal of Richard Feverel?Meredith.
3. The Man Behind the Book ?Van Dyke.
4. Modern English Books of Power?Fitch.
5. Mothers and Children? Canfield.
B. Projects.
1. Selections from Meredith's Poem.
2. Biographical Sketch of Meredith.
3. Comment upon the statement by Erskine, "No parent and his child can share the same approach to life."
4. Music, "Invictus" by W. E. Henley.
C. Method?Class Leader.
1. Read the novel for the story.
2. Read Erskine's discussion carefully.
3. Re-read any part not clear after reading the interpretation.
4. For the class activity tell the story simply.
5. Make the best use of supplementary material available.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Social Service (Fourth Week in February)
MEASURING MENTAL ABILITY
LESSON V
This topic calls for the achievement of a series of aims:
1. Understanding the recent scientific methods of measuring intelligence.
2. Developing skill in interpreting the facts indicated by such measurements.
3. Removing prejudice against mental tests as a device in child care.
4. Thinking of constructive uses of these tests in controlling the behavior of children.
Suggestions for Procedure. The use of an expert lecturer in the class will help achieve aims 1 and 2. Aims 3 and 4 can be achieved only if the class members really study the problem for themselves. The following procedure is suggested:
1. From the supplementary material given below give the class a preview on the history, purpose, use, and value of the tests. If possible get samples of various tests to show the class.
2. Have the class read carefully the material assigned in the Reading Guide.
3. Have class members answer each of the questions given in the reading guide. Supplementary material can be given by the class leader. The teacher can specifically refer to the cautions given on page 62 of "White House Conference. 1930."
4. By class study of the supplementary material given on the present uses of mental tests reach a conclusion regarding their value and the attitude that parents should take toward them.
5. Make special assignments for topical reports on the use of mental tests in locating children with special abilities or handicaps and in planning educational programs for such children. The material for this is found in "White House Conference 1930," pages 242-245; 308-316.
Reading Guide for Class Members. Growth pages 19-22.
1. Mental life in its control of conduct is made up of many elements among which are the following: Power to observe well, power to see relationships, quickness in memorizing, permanence of memory, ability to use words and symbols correctly, initiative, adaptation to persons, emotional expressions, special abilities in the fine arts, mechanical tendencies. Underline those that are measured in a satisfactory way by mental tests.
2. Does the author favor a plan of classifying pupils homogeneously in school on the basis of a score on a mental test or in using the test as one element for placing pupils in regular groups?
3. Just what is the problem raised by a child who is doing indifferent work in school but is shown by the tests to be bright?
4. Are problems of conduct in home or school related to brightness and dullness or to the lack of proper treatment based on an understanding of the child's intellectual status?
5. Relate the two points discussed at the tops of page 20 to the common parental desire to have their children follow the same course or get the same school marks as older brothers or sisters or the children of neighbors or friends.
6. Note carefully that mental tests have not caused people to pass judgment on the mental ability of others but have attempted to substitute a measuring device for guesses and opinions based on unrelated items such as appearance, or physical peculiarities.
7. Mental age is a measure of (present ability) (rate of mental growth). Learn which one is correct. Intelligence quotient, I. Q., is a measure of (present ability) (rate of mental growth). Mark the correct one. If pupils are classified in school on the basis of mental tests it will be according to (M. A.) (I. Q.) Parents would map out a future educational program for their children on the basis of a known (M. A.) (I. Q.)
8. Intelligence tests are technical devices for measuring complex human traits. They are reliable only if administered, scored, and the results interpreted by trained workers. Note especially the caution that the test results do not represent a "final verdict" on the future of the child but is a point from which a plan for a happy useful life can be more accurately planned.
Supplementary Material. History of Intelligence Testing. The story of the development of mental tests is one of the application of a newly developing science to a practical social problem?the detection and the treatment of defectives. The modern period in the solution of this difficulty began about the middle of the nineteenth century. In 1846 Seguin, a French scholar published a book entitled: "Traitement moral, hygiene et education des idiots." Johnson calls this "The emancipation proclamation for the fettered soul of the idiot." (Johnson, G. E. Contributions to the Psychology and Pedagogy of Feebleminded Children: Pedagogical Seminary, Vol. III, No. 2, pp 246-301). Special classes for slower children seem to have begun in Halle, Germany, in 1859. The first American psychological clinic was organized by Whitmer in the University of Pennsylvania in 1896. In America the work was more closely associated with the whole idea of individual differences and their measurement. Throughout the writings of psychologists during this half a century there are constant pleas for tests and for norms for comparison. The actual making of tests center around the work of Binet working in the Laboratory of: Physiological Psychology at the Sorbonne in Paris. His writings were voluminous leading to an article published in 1898 on "Measurement in Individual Psychology." He expressed in this the fundamental thought that has been evident in all later developments that the idea is not to measure in a definite physical sense but to classify individuals with reference to others. His first scale appeared in 1905. In 1908 he published an article entitled "The Development of Intelligence in Children." In this was presented a more elaborate statement of a measuring scale for the various ages of children. The idea of "Mental Age" was introduced with this 1908 scale. A further revision was made in 1911, the year of Binet's death. The first use in America was in the Training School for Feebleminded Children at Vineland, New Jersey. Here Goddard used the Binet scale in 1908, and later worked out an American adaptation of it. Terman in Stanford University worked out a tentative revision of the Binet Scale in 1910-11. In 1916 appeared the Stanford Revision 754 the Binet-Simon Scale. With this scale the use of the I. Q. (intelligence quotient) was introduced. This test still is the basic standard test for measuring the intelligence of individuals. Other tests have been made to meet special needs of special defectives and children who cannot read or use the English language. In recent years the movement for the development of group tests for use in schools has grown very rapidly. A list of some of these tests is given below. Nature of the Tests: The tests are supposed to measure ability. The items should therefore be equally novel to all who take the tests. This makes the tests appear peculiar to a person who first sees them. The items used in the tests must be such as actually measure intellectual power. This measuring of what the test is planned to measure is called its validity. This is usually expressed as a coefficient. The validity of a test is determined by correlating people's success in the test with their success, in school work or other known achievements that are essentially intellectual in nature. Intelligence is difficult to define or analyze. In its expression it indicates an ability to respond to symbols, and abstract difficulties. Most of the intelligence tests in use measure this expression of intelligence. Certain performance tests and tests involving pictures measure the intellectual power to adjust: to concrete problems involving reactions to things. The tests do not seem to measure the power to handle people well?social intelligence. Much of the common prejudice against the tests is due to people reading into the results a measurement of these traits that are not really indicated by the tests themselves. The tests differ very much. Some of them RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE include a wide variety of activities such as are found in the Stanford Revision of the Binet Tests, each part of which is to be given by the operator as an instruction to the child being tested, or in the group tests which include exercises with opposites, analogies, best reasons, disarranged sentences, proverbs, number work, unusual directions, sentence completion, information and word knowledge tests, etc. Some of the tests use pictures and other non-language exercises. Some of the tests are very simple such as the McCall Multi-Mental Scale which has just one page of word? relationship exercises. 'Another element to consider in studying the tests is known as reliability. The good tests will give the same results each time they are used. Different forms of the same test are used. The data show that the makers of the tests have achieved a high degree of efficiency in the reliability of the tests. The following table gives some information regarding a few of the tests.. The price given is for a sample set which the class leaders may desire to purchase. If intelligence tests are used in the schools, the class leaders may get a sample from the head 'of the schools. The sample should be used to illustrate to the class the form of the tests. (See table on opposite page. ) Purpose and Uses of the Tests. The purpose of the tests of intelligence is to get some facts not otherwise obtainable about the child's mental power. The results of the test put the child in terms of general intelligence in a position relative to other persons. The uses made of these data will vary. As you learned from the assigned reading the intelligence test result is not a judgment. It is a fact which can be used in forming judgments. The general intelligence LESSON DEPARTMENT 735 CHART level seems to remain quite constant through life. It seems to be influenced somewhat by general environmental conditions but is essentially an index of ability. It is only one of several factors-?health, physical growth, aims or ambition, environment, personality power,? which are to determine the plan of a life for the individual. It seems at the present time to be worth while to apply the test result as a help in solving the following problems: 1. Deciding whether a_ child should enter school. Reading ability and school methods of teaching it are fixed to adjust approximately to a mental age of six. The rigid chronological age of admission might be varied to admit a younger child who is well developed physically and socially and whose mental age is six or to delay the admission of a child six years old chronologically but whose development is slower. 2. Deciding Grade Placement. The intelligence quotient is also sometimes used as a basis of sectioning in a grade in order to vary the program for those of varying degrees of brightness. Formerly the ideal was to permit the children with the higher I. Q. To go through school more quickly. The more recent results indicate that it is better to enrich the program for the brighter children and make modifications for those with a low I. Q. 3. Interpreting learning achievement RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE so that pupils are urged to work up to capacity and not be idle or contented with poor work. 4. Diagnosing children that seem to need special care or assignments to special classes. 5. Giving Educational guidance for the selection of a career, or of schools, or of courses. The Intelligence Quotient or measure of brightness is essential, not as a means of predetermining failure or social inferiority but as a means of directing the child into a worthwhile successful career. Any recent book on Mental Testing will give examples of these. 6. Interpreting special tests in vocational aptitudes and in giving advice in vocational guidance. As a device in child care the use of mental tests can therefore be encouraged. Parents should check carefully to see that scores on intelligence tests do not develop feelings of inferiority and social hopelessness and to see that children of presumably low ability are not denied all of the enrichment and social participation in school which will make their lives significant. As Commissioner Butterfield of Connecticut said to the Department of Superintendence in 1930: "A child might be school dull but bright in terms of caring for chickens, being a good member of his home, loving nature, making friends, or being loyal." GIVE WORK! REMEMBER THIS: Each ton of Utah coal displaced in Salt Lake City deprives some Utah man of ONE DAY'S WORK When a coal truck delivers its load to your bins, you have contributed to the relief of unemployment to the extent that?each ton resulted from the LABOR OF ONE MAN FOR ONE DAY either a miner, a railroad man, a retail distributor or an employee of some allied industry. In 1929, Utah produced 5,100,000 tons of coal, giving 5,100,000 Days Work For Utah Coal Miners: railroad men of Utah, Idaho, Washington, Oregon, Montana, Nevada and California; and employees of allied industries. Perhaps you had not appreciated this phase of your heating problem. Think it over. In 1931, Utah produced but 3,300,000 tons of coal. Understand, any substantial decrease in the use of coal is reflected in the Decreased Earnings of Employees of coal-carrying railroads, who may be working hundreds of miles away from the mines but whose pay-checks are provided out of freight earnings derived largely from the transportation of coal. In many of our towns, this phase brings idle time at the coal mines close to home. UTAH COAL PRODUCERS ASSOCIATION When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Old in Spirit New in Design 24 Beautiful Assorted Cards $1.00 25 Cards Imprinted with Your Name $1.50 up DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah "Today's Milk Today" Brainard's Cottonwood Dairy We never change our delivery time, giving you always the best service and highest quality. Call Hyland 670 Located in Sugarhouse SEE THE NEW EUREKA VACUUM CLEANER NEW?MODERN?BEAUTIFUL With Fall Floating Brush, Beautiful Red Bag and 14 Other Major Improvements This super-powered Eureka De Luxe cleans deeply, swiftly and thoroughly?removing all deeply embedded, stubborn dirt by "High Vacuum''?the identical cleaning principle of all costly installed systems built into large buildings and hotels. The new "full floating' brush automatically removes all lint, hair and other surface litter. $5.00 Down Balance on Easy Terms Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 177 East Broadway Phone Wasatch 4764 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 12 POINTS OF SUPERIORITY! A DOZEN REASONS WHY MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS Give Longer Wear and More Satisfaction 1. Bib "Stop-Loss" watch pocket. 2. Bib deluxe and pencil pocket. 3. Wide and strong suspenders, 4. "Stop-Loss" side pockets. 5. Large reinforced back pockets. 6. Wide and roomy in seat and legs. 7. "Stop-Loss" combination pliers and rule pocket. 8. Triple stitched seams. 9. First quality denim. 10. Bar-tacked at every point of strain. 11. Convenient match pocket. 12. Pee | for comfort, service?guaranteed. Due to large scale production and unusual buying power, Mountaineer Overalls with the Stop-Loss Pockets cost you no more than ordinary overalls. Ask Your Dealer for Mountaineer Overalls with Stop-Loss Pockets Manufactured in Salt Lake City by a C. M. I. CLOTHING FACTORY), Christmas Gifts ' That Endure Give a practical gift this year for Christmas?something that will be permanent and long remembered. ELECTROLUX?The Natural Gas Refrigerator is the ideal gift. Silent?economical to operate?no repair or service costs ?these are only a few of the features that make Electrolux the popular automatic refrigerator today. We are also featuring exceptional! Values for Christmas on new Natural Gas Ranges. Our liberal time payment plan makes gift giving easy. Your refrigerator or range may be selected now with payments to begin after installation. UTAH GAS & COKE CO. WASATCH GAS CO. OGDEN GAS CO. This is The Year To Give Books And the Right Kind of Books Help to Understand Life and Enjoy it MOTHERS?LET US HELP YOU SELECT THE RIGHT BOOKS FOR YOUR DEAR ONES WRITE NOW FOR SUGGESTIONS DESERET BOOK COMPANY SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine PRES. HEBER J GRANT CHURCH OFFICE 3LDG E SO TEMPLE ST WHY NOT DEMAND THE BEST? Don't be satisfied with just life insurance. There is such a great Insist that your Life Insurance be Beneficial, you'll receive better values at lower cost. The reason? The BIG HOME COMPANY is the one Company that gives you Participating Insurance At Low Non-Participating Rates This means all Beneficial policyholders share in the net earnings of the company and receive Dividends Annually. BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. HOME OFFICE?SALT LAKE CITY If It's a Beneficial Policy it's the best Insurance you can buy difference and the very best costs no more. HEBER J. GRANT, President 9): E. T. RALPHS, General Manager