Notes from the Field
Taylor Stake (Magrath 2nd Ward).
SISTER INEZ R. BENNETT of Magrath 2nd Ward, writes as follows: "A novel contest was sponsored by our literary class leader, Sister Afton H. Anderson. Six members of Relief Society submitted stories which were judged by competent critics prior to regular meeting day, and helpful points to the budding authors were set down, and read at the close of the reading of each story before the class in the June meeting. Members were unaware of the authors' identity until after they had selected the prize winning story, judging them all on a basis of criticism formulated acNOTES FROM THE FIELD cording to accepted standards of a good short story, and in accordance with the lessons taught during the past two years in the literary section. Sixty-three ladies were present?the largest attendance for weeks, and each eagerly anticipated hearing these original stories. Stories were read by various members, not the authors, then the previously arranged criticisms given, and finally judged by the class as above. The following stories were submitted, and appear with the author, classification and reader. "The Masterpiece,' by Afton H. Anderson, deeper type story, read by herself. And 'Everybody's Mother,' by Inez R. Bennett, character sketch, read by Mrs. Ireta Matkin. "It is interesting to note that writers of these stories did not consult as to theme, yet each was different. Sister Anderson was overjoyed with the response. She had made a beautiful table bouquet to be presented to the winner, and when her story was declared first, she refused to take the bouquet horne again, but graciously presented it to the winner of second place, Mrs. Joyce Harker. It proved a highly popular idea with the audience, who listened attentively to each story. Stories were limited to 2,000 words, but most of them were much below that number. Stake officers, as well as local, were highly gratified. This story was so well written that it was given first place by the class. Second place was won by President Joyce R. Harker, with her humorous story 'Out of the Funnies,' which was read by Mrs. Flora Norton, stake literary class leader. Others were "The Greater Day,' by Mrs. Maude Fossey, religious, read, by Mrs. Myrtle N. Passey: 'The Turn in the Lane,' by Mrs. Lucy Stevens, moral, read by Mrs, Elsie Hen737 inger; 'The Northern Storm of 1892,' by Mrs. Ellen Matkin, love story, read by Mrs. Lucy Stevens; Wayne Stake. HE following report is received from Wayne stake: "The annual Relief Society convention of the Wayne stake was held in Bicknell, on July 12, 1932, with President Mary A. Brinkerhoff presiding. The opening song was 'The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning.' Talks on 'Our 90th Birthday,' and 'Lesson Preparation,' were given by Berta Oldroyd and Edith Taft, members of the stake board. A very interesting discourse on the Beatitudes was given by Elder Worthen Jackson. William F. Webster, George W. Okerlund and George T. Eckersley, members of the Stake Presidency, were present and made some encouraging and inspirational remarks. William Blackburn and Robert A. Taylor, the members of the High Council, whose special department is the Relief Society, added to the pleasure of the meeting. Sister Virtue Leah Blackburn, who is 88 years of age, told of her early pioneering experiences, and bore a faithful testimony of the gospel. Each ward of the stake furnished excellent musical numbers, which were interspersed between the discourses during the day. At the noon hour, luncheon was served to 287 people. All members of the stake presidency, 9 High Councilors, 4 Bishops, 2 Bishops' Counselors, 30 other members of the Priesthood, 7 Relief Society presidents, 12 Relief Society ward counselors, 6 secretaries, and a total of 287 officers and members were in attendance. The convention was thoroughly enjoyed by all present, and was a complete success in every respect." 738 Sevier Stake. "THE following is an extract from The Richheld Reaper: "Surpassing any art exhibit ever held at a county fair in Richfield, the art exhibit sponsored by the Sevier stake Relief Society, as a feature of their annual day observed here Tuesday, far exceeded the expectations of those in charge of arrangements, and attracted unstinted praise from visitors. The exhibit was open to the public both Tuesday and Wednesday. "The stake board and every ward of the stake had an individual room in the basement of the tabernacle in which to display their articles, and every room was fairly lined with the beautiful handwork. The exhibit displayed a variety and originality of design in pillows, rugs, doilies, runners and table coverings of various types, a gay array of artistic and cleverly designed patchwork quilts, many novelty decorative articles? in fact all sorts of work for every room in the home. Remodeled clothing was also an_ interesting feature of the display, and no one could overlook the antique articles or the articles displaying surprising talent in painting, carving and taxidermy work done by local people. It was pleasing to notice the great variety of fine work done by elderly ladies of 'the stake. "Each ward had a beautiful display of flowers, demonstrating the possibilities for home beautification by flowers in this locality. "Tuesday afternoon a_ pleasing program was presented at the tabernacle, with Mrs. Estella Poulson, president of the stake Relief Society, presiding, and Mrs. Lou Peterson in charge of music. "As awards beautiful scarfs were RELILF SOCIETY MAGAZINE presented to the following: Oldest members of organization present, Mrs. Julia Avery of Glenwood, 87; Mrs. Mary Frail of Sigurd, 86; an | award was sent to a member of the Koosharem organization, 89, who was unable to attend. Members who have 'belonged to the Society the longest, Mrs. Mary Oldroyd of Glenwood, 67 years in the organization; Mrs. Hannah K. Peterson of the Fourth Ward, each having belonged 58 years. "Each of the following, mothers who have had the largest families, were presented a large vase filled with flowers: Mrs. Josephine Torgenson of Koosharem, mother of fifteen children, 12 of whom are living, one son having been killed in the World War; Mrs. Christene Jensen of the First Ward, mother of fifteen children, nine of whom are living; Mrs. Agatha S. Anderson of the First Ward, mother of 15 children, 5 of whom are living; Mrs. Mary Sandall, mother of 14 children all of whom are living. Gifts were sent to eight mothers not in attendance, each of whom had had 14 children. "Two beautiful reproductions of paintings, one, 'Christ in the Temple,' and another of 'Christ as a child, were presented to the wards having the best records for ward teaching. One was received by the First Ward, with a record of 100 per cent for 8 years and 8 months, and the other by the Fourth Ward of Richfield with a record of 100 per cent every month since its organization about three years ago. The Glenwood ward received honorable mention for a very fine record. An embroidered linen handkerchief was sent to all members of the organization who are over 80 years of age." THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto?Charity Never Faileth Mrs. MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON AMY BROWN LYMAN THE  Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor: Mary Connelly Kimball Manager Louise Y. Rosison Mgr. XTX DECEMBER, 1932 No. 12 Christmas PERHAPS Christmas will have a deeper significance this year than it usually has. In times of affluence we become so absorbed in gift buying that we do not dwell as we should upon the fact that it is Christ's birthday. We do not take time to ponder over what His advent has meant to the World. In order to have the spirit of Christmas neither costly gifts nor sumptuous repasts are necessary. For the simple gift, frugal meal, the heart full of gratitude and the indwelling thought to His advent and His life and what it has brought to the world will bring peace into the home and gratitude and joy to the heart.