[Notes to the Field: The Importance of the Visiting Teacher Message]

NOTES TO THE FIELD Missions Argentine Brazilian Danish European Japanese Netherlands North Central States Northern California Norwegian Pacific Swedish Swiss-Austrian Tahitian Tahitian Texas-Louisiana Western States Stakes Berkeley East Jordan East Mill Creek East Provo Emery Farr West Gunnison Highland Inglewood Juab Kanab Millard Moon Lake Nebo New York North Sanpete Oahu Panguitch Phoenix Riverside St. George St. Johns Sacramento San Fernando Shelley South Idaho Fails Tooele Washington REORGANIZATIONS Released President Cecile S. Young Diania H. Rex Eliza Petersen Leona B. Sonne Irene P. Clissold Adriana M. Zappey Ann Jane L. Killpack Mary S. Ellsworth Margaret B. Peterson Elva T. Cowley Ethel J. Blomquist Nida A. Taggart Emma Ruth M. Mitchell Franklin J. Fullmer Christie J. Smith Lula P. Child Released President Louise O. Knight Vella C. Jones Muriel R. Mallory Amanda Johnston Orlinda N. Ware Nellie W. Neal Orlene L. Henrie Josephine S. Jones Josephine B. Prestwich Lua L. Stephenson Lilian C. McAllister Fern Robison Birdie R. Swasey Nadine Brown Appointed President 175
Date of Appoint- _ ment Leanor J. Brown Mary P. Howells Minnie B. Sorensen Ethel L. Mauss Lillian D. Lillywhite Laura M. Hawkes Amelia E. P. Gardner Grace M. Gowans Annie B. Johnson Lenora K. Bringhurst Franklin J. Fullmer Muriel R. Mallory Leone R. Bowring Mildred M. Dillman Appointed President March 12, 1949
January 28, 1949
June 24, 1949
August 3, 1949
December 11, 1949
January 26, 1949
June 10, 1949 - November 18, 1949
September 12, 1949
January 3, 1949
April 14, 1949
December 12, 1949
October 31, 1949
October 5, 1949
Date of Appointment Vera H. Mayhew Grace G. Thornton Erma M. Dixon Zina P. Dunford Surelda C. Ralphs Geneva J. Garfield Iva D. Fjeldsted Florence M. Holland Lavena L. Rohner Lyle C. Pratt Vera Deane Blackburn Faymetta S. Prows Anona O. Miles Lucille H. Spencer Louesa R. MacDonald Vera H. Hales Pearle M. Olsen Mary A. Tyau (died Mar. 31, 1949) Lareeta Yardley Mable D. Mortensen Sarah N. Twitchell Leila K. Atkin Anona C. Heap Erma F. Roskelley Mary E. Cutler Annie B. Johnson Eleanora B. Allen Emma R. Hanks Pearle U. Winkler Sadie Kamaile Kauhini Cleo V. Hatch Lola M. Shumway Drusilla B. Newman Verna L. Dewsnup Mary H. Gibbons Lesslie Stubbs Evelyn P. Brown Eva L. Clinger Edna J. Kindred Leona P. Boyce Gwendolyn T. Gwynn Elese B. Lundberg January 1, 1
October 30, en November 13, 1949
August 14, 1949
August 21, 1949
June 1, 1949
August 21, 1949
December 4, 1949
September 25, 1949
November 27, 1949
July 31, 1949
March 20, 1949
October 30, 1949
June 5, 1949
May 15, 1949
August 7, 1949
May 15, 1949
February 6, 1949
February 27, 1949
July 18, 1949
January 9, 1949
September 4, 1949
September 18, 1949
December 26, 1949
August 14, 1949
May 15, 1949
January 16, 1949
March 6, 1949 
176 
Photograph courtesy Ivy H. Jones JOSEPHINE ORTIZ, FRESNO, CALIFORNIA, MAKES CLOTH DOLLS FOR FUN—AND FOR PROFIT JQPHINE Ortiz has a natural gift for making and dressing cloth dolls. She gives them beauty and personality, as well as color and style. The doll which Mts.
Ortiz is holding is named "Juanita," and was sent to. A little gitl in Provo, Utah.
There the doll created so much interest among the Primary children that an inquiry was made regarding the pattern. A large department store in Albuquerque, New Mexico, gave an order for two dozen dolls last fall and has given other orders for more dolls to grace the 1949 holiday season. In the "Talents" project of the Spanish-American Mission, Sister Ortiz earned $66 for her Relief Society and received much joy and satisfaction in the use of her unusual gift. > Winter Was Long Lael W. Hill. But silver-velvet buds erupt Along each pussy willow bough— The sky is new and clean and tall.
Under snow's crystal edge are cupped The golden crocuses; somehow Old sheaths of winter burst and fall— And spring emerges, after all. She Vcniean Red Cross and Jes Program Information Released by the Office of Public Information, Pacific Area Maryland mother saved her three-year-old son's life this summer by applying artificial respiration after she pulled him from a fishpond in the back yard.
While waiting for help, the resourceful mother knelt over her unconscious child and worked skillfully to restore his breathing. Her knowledge of what to do in this emergency saved her child's life. She had been trained in lifesaving by the Red Cross. In Los Angeles a five-year-old victim of nephrosis, an often fatal disease, needed a rare blood product, serum albumin. 'Two hundred ampules of the precious fluid were flown from the east to give this child a chance against the disease. The life-giving serum was processed from 800 pints of blood collected by a Red Cross blood center. Traditional Red Cross educational health services—Water Safety, First Aid, Accident Prevention, Home Nursing—provide thousands of Americans with knowledge and skills to enable them to save lives in emergencies and to better the nation's health and safety. To provide these and additional services the Red Cross in its March fund campaign appeals to the American people for $67,000,000.
Contributing to the welfare of Americans struck by disaster—flood, fire, storm, and other unexpected catastrophes—Red Cross provides immediate and long-term aid for victims. In the emergency period of a disaster, Red Cross workers arrive on the scene to supply food, clothing, shelter, and medical care. Long-term aid is accorded those victims to whom the loss of home or small business may mean financial ruin.
During the past fiscal year 228,515 persons received assistance in 330 disaster relief operations. In fulfilling its responsibility to serve members of the armed forces and veterans, the Red Cross assisted more than two million servicemen and veterans and their dependents in working out personal and family problems.
Help in filing government claims for veteran's benefits, financial assistance pending receipt of benefits, and provision for trained staff and volunteer workers to bring recreational and welfare services into military and veterans hospitals were provided to an expanded military force and an increasing veteran population.
Your help is solicited for the 1950 fund to carry on humane services through the Nation's Red Cross. _—_ Poised Moment Marvin Jones Poised, high on the thin edge of morning, Night leans toward etemity, Then like the meteor my heart is, falls hissing Into the green foam-slope of the sea. Page 177
Oriental China, Ancient and Modern II—JAPANESE WARES Rachel K. Laurgaard Illustrations by Elizabeth Williamson OT until the twelfth century N when they came to know the Sung wares of China, did the.
Japanese produce.
Anything noteworthy in the way of ceramics. In 1223, a potter named Kato was sent to China to learn techniques. Returning, he opened a kiln in the province of Owari, and began producing wares far superior to anything hitherto known in Japan. In 1520, another potter, Shonziu, made his way to the Ching-te-chen works, where he acquired the art of manufacturing porcelain, and of decorating it in the underglaze blue. He set up his kiln in Arita, province of Hizen, and imported the fine white clay from China for his work.
Many years later, the victorious generals of Hideyoshi, the dictator, at his request, brought back to Japan, Korean potters.
Hideyoshi was a patron of the arts when he was not engaged in conquering neighboring countries, and was most anxious to encourage the art of ceramics in his native land. His desires were gratified when one of these Korean potters, under the patronage of the Lord of Satsuma discovered that the fine white clay, the stone for manufacturing glaze, and the ash from the bark of the Nara tree—all to be found on his master's estate—made pottery of unusual beauty.
This was the original Satsuma ware. Other Korean potters had equal Page 178 success with materials to be found in other provinces, and soon the Japanese ceramic industry was on its way to becoming famous.
Dutch traders spread its reputation and, by 1639, when Japan was closed to all but the Dutch, a world market for Japanese wares had become: well established.
Various grades of porcelain comprised the bulk of this export, for the Japanese, like the Chinese, were quick to discover that the highly decorated porcelains pleased the Westerner more than the glazed earthenware which "felt" as well as "looked" beautiful to the Oriental collector. The products of the countless kilns which soon came into existence all over Japan were known by the name of the province in which they were made, or by the name of the feudal lord who had subsidized them.
Satsuma and Imari became the most familiar to Westerners and, as a result, dealers have been prone to class many pieces as "Satsuma" or "Imari" in order to sell them when, in reality, they came from some lesser known but just as skillful pottery-works, such as Hirado or Seto.
Imari took its name from the port from which it was shipped. The factory was located at Arita, eight miles away. Old Imari porcelain is now extremely rare and costly, ORIENTAL CHINA, ANCIENT AND MODERN ye fs ip ae <1) = IMARI VASE Old Imari ware is now very expensive and difficult to obtain. But when the potteries of Arita were young, the story is told of a vendor of medicines who ventured into the village to dispose of his herbs and powders. He saw a pile of pottery stacked outside a house and, not knowing its value, proposed to trade some medicine for a vase or two. The potter told him to take all he could carry! PARLY Imari pieces were simple, but exquisite in their delicate whiteness, and slight but beautifully proportioned in design. It was the preference of Western buyers for ornately decorated china that developed the brocade style, with its lavish ornamentation, which characterizes more recent Imari. The Hirado porcelain works were famous for underglaze blue and overglazes of varying shades of brown, black, and blue, with designs _ 179 depicting small boys and old men. The most famous potter of the province of Hizen was Kakiemon, who gave his name to a certain type of decoration. His delicate designs of quail and partridge were the models for English and German china painters of a later date.
Another potter who refused to slavishly copy Chinese designs was Kenzan.
Because his art was more purely Japanese than the others, he was considered one of Japan's greatest craftsmen. On the porcelains named for their patron, Prince Nabeshima, a thin but bright underglaze blue was characteristic, but on-glaze enamels were also used in green, black, and turquoise, with gold. The village of Kutani in the province of Kaga was famous for its porcelain clay and produced two wares. One had a brilliant deep green glaze used with yellow, purple, and blue, and the designs were marked on the biscuit in black. The PRINCE NABESHIMA PORCELAIN A characteristic of this exquisite ware is a bright blue underglaze.
180 SATSUMA VASE WITH LANDSCAPE DECORATION other featured a soft opaque red, peculiar to Kutani, together with applied ornamentation of green, yellow, blue, gold, on silver.
Seto wares were decorated in cobalt blue underglaze, and also overglaze enamels.
Enormous quantities of white ware, sometimes of eggshell thinness, were brought from Seto to Tokyo to be decorated in elaborate and colorful designs, heightened with gold. UCH of the so-called "Satsuma" is Kioto ware painted in the enameling establishments at Tokyo. The Satsuma faience or stoneware was sparingly colored with much attention being directed to the beautiful ivory-white crackled glaze. Another Satsuma glaze was called "dragon's skin" because of its shriveled look, and was made in brown, iron-rust, or tortoise-shell.
Soon after Commodore - Perry's visit to Japan, the demand for Japanese china became so great that it could not be met with wares of the highest quality.
Inferior products, designed to look like genuine Satsuma, Arita, and other fine wares, were sent out in large quantities. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1950
The reputation of Japanese pottery suffered as a consequence, and, although beautiful pieces were still issuing from the kilns of many potters, some of them descendants of the original Korean artists brought over 350 years ago, the epithet of "cheap" was wrongly attached to all Japanese production. Noritake china, for years past, has been ranked with the finest commercial porcelains made, far surpassing the modern Canton porcelain of the Chinese. Many other Japanese porcelains marked only "Nippon" are carefully decorated with artistic patterns of chrysanthemums, bamboo, pine, or plum blossoms, and deserve to be cherished by their posSESSOI. Today, the Japanese Culture Society sponsors the Folk Art Museum in Tokyo, which exhibits and awards prizes to outstanding wares, thus encouraging the hundreds of potters who, in their small backyard kilns, are fashioning bowls and cups of lovely lines and texture, which often find their way into the bags of returning American soldiers. There is something very appealing about these simple pieces, and, perhaps, the time has at last arrived when many Westerners will also prefer the smooth surfaces and soft curves of undecorated wares.
JAPANESE AWATA BOWL
Note the floral design, both on the inside and the outside of the dish, and the delicately fluted edge. 181
Photograph by Willard Luce SEAGULL MONUMENT, TEMPLE SQUARE, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH -——~ lore Shan the Law Eva Willes Wangsgaard Here seagulls crowding the plow will scream, A scourge of crickets, and the double fear Noisy as breakers and white as spray, As swooping, gorging gulls appear.
Over the loamy waves that steam Brown in the sun of a warm March day, Fragrant with promise where white drifts lay. His heart still lifts with a great relief— Incredible white scourge gulping the black— It is more than the law—deep in his veins His heart still swells with his father's grief, A man remembers the starving year His father's faith in a time of lack, Of scanty crops and scantier rains, And the gulls feed undisturbed at his back. Page 18] You Can Learn Part IV G Ys for Grandpa and AH Js for Heir Katherine Kelly dropped the handle of the cream separator and burst into the house, breathless and glowing. "Tom, I did it! I did it! I did it all by myself and even poured the two buckets of milk in without stopping the separator and without spilling a drop!" Tom took his hand away from his eyes and smiled at me. "You're getting good," he said. "If I had known I'd ever get down like this I wouldn't have bought such a largesized separator for a pint-sized wife. That's too hard for you. Why didn't you call me? I could have stepped out long enough to lift those heavy buckets for you." "You've stepped out too much as it is.
This backset is worse than the influenza was in the first place. If you hadn't been too ambitious and got out so soon you might have been well by now." "Well, it sure puts the roses in your cheeks. I'm lucky to have such a good-looking wife to wait on me." Tom patted my hands as I lifted the hot pack from the side of his face and examined the angry looking swelling just in front of his ear. "I'm afraid you chose a wife more ornamental than useful," I answered absently. "This gathering worries me, don't you think we should call the doctor?" "No, it will be all night. I've had a swelling before. Had one when Page 182 I was in the army and didn't even tell the sergeant, rather drill than land in the hospital." "Well, Pll get Mary to come over and take a look at it after while and see what she thinks."
Mary was his sister and he set such store by what she said. "Anyway I think it would be a good idea to get Mary to stay with you and Ernie while I am gone this | afternoon." "That's all nonsense. I'll be all right. And any time I can't handle my own son, at least while he is this size.... You go ahead and get it over with." I walked into the kitchen to clear away the breakfast things and caught Emie, our son and heir, just tipping his mush dish upside down on top of his head with the last of the mush and milk running in rivulets through his hair and down his face. "Oh, no, no, Ernie! Naughty, naughty!"
Crash went the dish on the floor and Ernie looked at me with big innocent brown eyes, lashes more or less decorated with breakfast cereal. I lifted him from the high chair and led him over to the wash basin. At the same time I noticed that Tom's breakfast was practically untouched. "Why Tom, you ate scarcely anything. Weren't you hungry?" YOU CAN LEARN _ "Oh, it hurts my head to eat. I'm not hungry anyhow. Maybe I'll eat something later." RNIE toddled into the bedroom on his little fat legs and I seized the opportunity to slip out the back door. The foam had just about settled on the milk, but I carefully poured off the top anyway, somebody had told me that the foam would kill any animal and I wasn't taking any chances with my lambs. I got a good hold on the big fourteen-quart bucket and slowly eased it down the back steps. As I reached the outdoors I just had to stop. And take a deep breath. The air was so fresh and exhilarating. A meadow lark trilled from the back fence and the last notes seemed to blend with the brightness of new green leaves and the sparkle of the sunlight on the morning dew. The lambs saw me coming and started from the field on a run. | was plenty proud of those lambs, eighteen of them, and all getting so big and fat. I was raising them on shares for my father.
That meant that nine of them would be mine in the fall. He said that they ought to weigh out close to ten dollars apiece.
That was going to be right close to a hundred dollars! I quickened my steps. I had to get the milk in that trough before the lambs got there or they would spill it all over the place. I reached the wire fence and climbed up a step so I could lift the bucket over the fence and pour the milk in the trough on the other side.
Just as | lifted the bucket all eighteen of those lambs hit the fence, the buck- 183 et flew up in the air, and most of the milk came down on my head. I stood in the puddle of spilled milk, shaking myself and wiping milk from my eyes and hair, while the lambs clamored for their breakfast on the other side of the fence.
Just then I heard my father's — cheery voice. "Well, my little girl, looks like you could use some help." If ever a voice was welcome it was his.
There was nobody else in the world like my Dad. 'Tall and lean he was, and tough as leather from the years of battling wind and weather, his hat habitually turned up in the front from facing the wind and searching the skies for the clouds that would make or break his dry land crops. My Dad! He had just turned fifty a few days after the arrival of Ernie had made him a grandfather. "Well, Grandpa," I teased, "you were never more welcome. But I'm afraid it's too late. I've spilled all the milk.
Those darned lambs. -.." "Don't you darn those lambs.
Remember half of them are mine. And there is no use crying over spilt milk, so we better fix it so you won't spill any more. Now what you need is a little pen to feed those lambs in and that trough staked down. Get me that shovel from over there while I get these posts and we'll have it fixed in a jiffy." I was so relieved I could have cried. Dad always knew what to do and nothing was ever hard for him. HE took the shovel from me and while he dug the post holes I found a loose piece of woven wire out by the pasture fence, although I 184 couldn't see just how this pen was going to work. "Now, young lady, we've got to have some sort of a gate. Get me those flat boards over by the woodpile and a few nails and some staples for that wire.
Better get the hammer while you are at it." In no time Dad had built the other three sides of the pen, using the fence for the fourth side. He had a nice little wooden gate with a strong slide fastener on it. "Now you need that trough fastened down so those roughnecks can't tip it over and you will be all set." As he drove the stakes that fastened the trough securely in place, he was talking steadily. "Now, little girl, when you go to feed those lambs next time you can shut the gate until you get the milk in the trough, then open the gate and let the lambs inside and they can't tip the trough and waste half the milk." As he talked I surveyed the pen and thought how simple things could be when you knew how to do them. However, I made one reservation. I was going to stand up on the fence while I opened that gate, those lambs were getting big enough to knock me down and go right over the top of me. "How's that man of yours this 'morning, is he any better?" ~"Not too well. I am really worried about those gatherings in his head." "And how is Grandpa's young man? He hasn't any gatherings in his head, has he?" "No, nothing but mischief. He's fine and dandy. I'll bet if he saw you drive up he is really making things hot for his Daddy." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1950 "Well, I am all through here now. We'll go and find out."
Sure enough, Ernie was standing by the window waiting for Grandpa and I had to watch that I did not knock him down when I opened the door. He dodged past me out: onto the porch and straight into Grandpa's arms.
Grandpa threw him up in the air a couple of times and called to Tom, "How are you doing, young fellow? If you don't get well fast I'm going to steal this boy of yours. I believe he is pretty much Grandpa's right now." "Yes, I think he is, too. You play with him so much.
Then since you gave him that sheep he is a man of property." 'Tom was leaning shakily against the bedroom door. "Every time he sees the ewe he says, 'Mine, mine,' so I have named her Minnie," I explained. "Come to the window and see what I use her for. She is my automatic mower. See, I stake her out with that rope and when she eats the lawn clean and smooth in one place I move her to another.
While she is close by the house Ernie loves to watch her." "Trust you to put her to work. Now, that's Ernie's sheep, and when she multiplies into a whole herd, it will send him to college." HEN Grandpa rose to go Ernie had to have a jacket on and go with him out to see "Minnie."
Ernie clapped his hands and gurgled, "Mine, mine.' Minnie lifted her eyes from the green lawn grass and chewed on complacently. She stomped one front foot and backed up a little as Ernie ran toward her, but she stood YOU CAN LEARN quietly and let him put his arms around her neck although she still eyed Grandpa suspiciously. "T got to be going, got work to do today. Let me know if you have any more trouble, and take good care of that old man of yours."
Grandpa stepped into his old pickup and was gone in a cloud of dust.
Ernie whimpered as I took him back into the house and I felt sort of forlorn myself. Somehow Grandpa made everything seem so bright. Tom had lain back down in the darkened bedroom and my anxiety returned as I sat down on the bed beside him. "Do you want that hot water bottle filled again?" I felt so inadequate, if there were just something I could do! "No, I think maybe I can sleep a little while now if you keep Ernie out of here. I didn't get much sleep last night." "All right, I'll keep him with me." I closed the door softly and set about the morning chores. As I piled the dishes and washed the separator, I was worrying about that afternoon. As playleader for the stake Primary we had spent many afternoons practicing, and today was the great occasion, I just couldn't fail the girls now. The whole stake would be out to the May Festival. But I felt I really shouldn't be leaving Tom at all. He felt better when he woke from his sleep. "You go and get your dancing over with. Any time I can't tend my own son I'll let you know," he said. The old Chev started off quite willingly, for a change, and I was glad. 'There just wasn't time to bother with Freckles, my old white horse, today. 185 We had a big crowd out. It was such a lovely day, and when it was finally over everyone complimented us and was very nice. As soon as it was possible to break away I thanked the girls and hurried home. As I drove down the lane I could see 'T'om and Ernie out on the lawn. "You shouldn't be outside. You'll catch your death of cold," I called anxiously, as I stopped the car. "We just came out to move Minnie. She was wearing a white half circle on your lawn from walking back and forth trying to reach fresh grass." "Oh, Tom, I didn't know you cared about the lawn! You must be feeling better to even see it. You do look better!" "Tl say I feel better. The pain is all gone. You see Ernie is a nght good nurse," he said jokingly as we went into the house. The table was all set, and from the stove came the delicious odors of mutton chops and baked potatoes. I hadn't realized how hungry I was. "Why, you sweet things, you've cooked supper all ready for Mommy.
What nice men folks to have to come home to." "Well, we thought if we couldn't do anything outside, we could at least have supper ready for you when you came home. It seemed so good to be nd of that pain that I had to do something, and Ernie thought he was a great help." "Oh, Tom, I'm so glad you are better," I sighed as he put his arm around me and I laid my head on his shoulder, "It seems so good to have a man to lean on."
Volcano lrazu Jeanne Tenney OW would you like to drive in an automobile right up to the very top of a volcano, 12,000 feet high? 'That is what you can do in Costa Rica, down in Central America.
There is a fine paved road all the way from San Jose, the capital city of Costa Rica, to the top of the mountain, Irazu (pronounced Ee-rah-soo). It takes only about an hour, driving leisurely through pretty country, past lovely homes and gardens, which are quite different from those in the United States.
Most of them are one-story houses, made in the South American style, with balconies, and fancy edges on the roofs.
Some of the country homes are made of adobe, plastered white on the outside, with tile roofs. 'The gardens are filled with Bougainvillea, hedges of hibiscus, and stands covered with bright purple orchids.
Since the altitude here is between 4,000 and 5,000 feet, it is very cool, and many northern flowers grow abundantly, too. The road takes you past coffee fincas (plantations) and through pastures dotted with cattle. As it winds higher and higher, the houses are fewer and farther between, until at last almost no houses are seen at all.
Then you notice that the wind has suddenly become cooler, and you close the windows of the car almost shut. You are up in the clouds, and fog surrounds you, but the car slows only a little, for there is almost no traffic on the road, and presently it winds up out of the clouds, and comes out into the bright sunshine again! Page 186 At last the driver says this is as far as the car will go, that you have to go the rest of the way on foot, but it is not far, only just over there a little way, to the crater of the volcano! You get out of the car, and the cold air whips past your ears, but it is a delightful, fresh feeling, and you can look way out over the clouds, to the next mountains, blue in the distance.
When the driver asks if you want to walk to the crater and look down into it, you are glad you have on good walking shoes, for the rest of the way is rough and rocky, although a road of sorts has been made. You have just to walk down a little slope and around a ridge, about five minutes walk. You are just a bit nervous, for there is a stream of smoke going up from the crater, and the ground feels warm beneath your feet! You wonder if that is partly caused by the sun beating down on the ground, but you also imagine that it must be largely caused by the heat of the volcano itself! The crater is shaped like a big bowl, several hundred yards across from rim to rim, and quite steep down inside. In the bottom of the bowl is the actual hole of the real crater, perhaps twenty or thirty feet across, from the depths of which comes the smoke. On the edges of the hole are yellow streaks, which are sulphur stains. You have been wondering why the driver, who acts as guide, too, carries a pistol in 'his belt, and in a few moments you see.
When you VOLCANO IRAZU get quite close to the edge of the huge crater, you smell the gunpowder smell that comes from the volcano, a smell like burned sulphur matches.
Then the driver says that the volcano does not like loud noises, and if he shoots the gun, it will show its anger by sending up puffs of smoke! He shoots the gun into the air, to demonstrate, and sure enough, a few seconds after the shot, up come a couple of big pufts of smoke from the hole in the center of the crater! It is a bit alarming, but the driver says it has been quite a few years since the volcano has done anything more than send up puffs of smoke,. And many people come up to see it at any time. But since you know that the city of Cartago, which you went through on your way here from San Jose, has been damaged badly by earthquakes not many years before, you wonder what would hapRR Marner. SS OS: Courtesy, Jeanne Tenney '187 pen if the volcano were to erupt suddenly, with you right there on the edge of it! HE driver says that any loud noise, such as a shout, will make the volcano puff, so you give a shout, and almost jump when the puff of smoke comes; then your companion shouts, and the driver shouts, and so several more puffs come out, one after another.
There is an interesting echo with every shout, too.
Then the smoke calms down again to a wavering stream going steadily up. The rim of the crater on one side becomes narrower and narrower as you walk along it, and the outside steeper and steeper, till you come to the end where it juts off, and you can look almost straight down the mountain on one side, and straight down into the crater bowl on the other side.
Part of the sides of the crater are rough and not so steep, VOLCANO IRAZU, COSTA RICA 188 and you are told that sometimes people climb down there to get to the very edge of the hole and look down it, but it is a little dangerous, for a slip might cause one to fall right toward the crater itself, which is several thousand feet deep!
What a terrible thought!
Besides that, there are fumes coming up from inside the mountain, along with the smoke, which you can smell right where you are, but which are much stronger near the hole. The driver says he has been down there several times, taking people down to see, and once a man fainted near the edge, overcome by the fumes, and had to be carried out! So, although you would like to go down and look in, you don't dare even think seriously of doing it!
Although the air is cold, the sun feels warm and comfortable.
When you turn and look out over the clouds, they seem to cover the earth not very far below you with a gleaming, fluffy carpet of purest white. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1950
The shining billows reach from your mountain all the way to the next, and you fancy you could almost step down on to them and walk across to the other mountain! How beautiful it is! You wish you could stay longer here at the top of the mountain, but of course you can't. There is absolutely nothing up here at the top, not even any plants grow here— either the heat or the fumes of the volcano keep all plants from growing, so that there is nothing but bare brown and gray rocks. Nevertheless, you are surprised at how close to the top pasture grass and shrubs do grow, with cattle wandering just a few hundred yards below the rim! Reluctantly, you turn away to go down the mountain, excited and happy that you have actually seen a volcano puffing up smoke, and with the beautiful scene of clouds and mountaintops to remain still in your mind. —_- When £ Am Old Hannah C. Ashby When years roll by and I am old I shall not weep; I shall not hold one bitter thought Of days long gone; But I shall lift my thoughts above And still move on. I would not roll life's curtain back One single day, Lest some great purpose might not move In God's appointed way. Hope, faith, and trust shall still be mine, For I shall know I move but nearer to the life divine When I am old. Dark in the Chrysalis Alice Morrey Bailey CHAPTER 3
Synopsis: Edith Ashe, a widow, fortyseven, dependent upon her son Kit, overhears his wife, Annette, complaining of her self-pity. Edith, penniless, cannot live with any of her three other married sons. In desperation, she takes a position as companion to an elderly woman, Mrs. Lewis, whose son Cory is leaving for an extended business trip. The responsibility of an old crippled woman, a large, ugly, badly run house, an unhappy housekeeper, Amanda, combine to convince Edith, who considers herself an ill woman, that she cannot keep the job. N the morning Edith awoke to the sound of singing. At first it seemed a part of her dreaming, orchestrated by the great chords of her nightmare, an angel song, high and sweet as the wind from some cosmic force. For a moment, opening her eyes to the strange room, she could not remember her whereabouts, but the singing was very real, still angelic and high and richly pure. Not in opera, not in pictures, nor on the air had Edith ever heard a voice to compare with it. "It's Linnie! Linnie's home!" Mrs.
Lewis was chirping excitedly from the next room. Below, in the living room there was the crash of chords from the piano in the alcove, and a cessation of the song, followed by a rush of footsteps on the stairs. Before Edith could struggle into a robe and slippers, the girl burst into the room, rushed to her grandmother's bed and smothered her with kisses. "Tome! Homel' she ecstatically. "Where's Dad?" said "He's gone to take care of his stores," her grandmother told her. "He will be gone for a month or six weeks."
Linnie squeezed her eyes tight in disappointment. "My wedding's in June," she said. "I need Daddy." "It's your own fault, Linnie. You will never let him now exactly when you are coming." "Because it is too much fun to come home like this!"
Linnie stood up. "It's all right, Grammy." It was not until then that she saw Edith. "Linnie, this is Edith Ashe," quavered Mrs. Lewis, "my new companion. Her husband was Dr. Ashe. He brought you, Linnie." Linnie's eyes met Edith's. 'They were frank and wide and grave in her oval face.
Edith thought she had never seen such a beautiful girl, such a radiant, warm face. The features were chiseled to loveliness, the line of her brow and jaw sweetly turned. Yet there was a quality, indefinable and vague, that hurt Edith.
Perhaps it was the gallant way she held her head, her wistful eagerness. "That makes us practically relatives," she said, and the smile she gave Edith was the most joyous thing that had happened to Edith in two years. "Aunt Edith." "Look, Grammy, look!'' said Linnie, turning back to the bed. "Did you ever see anything so beautiful?" She turned her slim hand to show her engagement ring. It Page 189 190 was indeed a beautiful ring, a large diamond, flanked by smaller ones, set in yellow gold. | "Just wait until you see Paul. He is so distinguished and so handsome. The Fontaines are prominent in Boston, but don't think Paul is fusty.
Every girl in Boston wanted him—and he wanted me.
Think of it!" "Where did you meet him, child?" "He heard me sing. It was out from the school and we were giving a benefit. I wasn't the soloist. We were only background for a celebrity, but Paul saw me. He came backstage and asked me to supper. Miss Julien wasn't going to let me go. 'They are very particular about us. And Paul told her it was all right, I was the girl he was going to marry, and his mother was with him. You should have seen her flutter." "He was an impetuous young man, I should say," remarked Edith. "He meant it," said Linnie. "He said it again at supper and has never stopped saying so. His mother was with us and she was horrified. He should have at least asked for my pedigree, she thought. She doesn't think anyone west of Philadelphia has ancestors." Linnie's laughter was infectious. "She is really a dear, though," said Linnie, sobering. "She gave teas for me and introduced me like I was something special. She was very brave about Paul marrying me, and only hinted once that he could have had a De Peyster. She told her friends that I was a great artist, and my father a prominent chain store man. She wouldn't say groceries." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1950 "T don't like the woman," said Grammy vindictively. "I don't like her one bit." "Oh, now, I've done it," said Linnie contritely. "You will love her when you see her." "No I won't," said Grammy firmly, "anybody that runs my Cory down!" HE house was different with Linnie there. Her swift grace and her singing were everywhere in it. She was unbelievably slim, with delicately turned bones, and her fair hair flew back as she raced to answer the telephone and the doorbell, which were constantly ringing, for she seemed to have myriads of friends and she was in love.
There were long distance calls from the young man in Boston, there were letters, air-mail and special delivery, and flowers to brighten the boxlike furniture of the living room and Linnie's own bare room.
Edith had indulged in a little sigh of relief that she was home and could assume the responsibilities of the house, but it was soon evident that Linnie wouldn't.
When the sink stopped up Amanda came to Linnie about it, where she was writing one of her voluminous letters at the roll-top horror of a desk. "Goodness," said Linnie, looking up in wide-eyed consternation. "I wouldn't know the first thing to do. Aunt Edith," she said, for Edith was just passing on the way to the kitchen sink with the lunche on trays. "Amanda says the sink is stopped up.
What shall we do?" "We'll probably have to call the DARK IN THE CHRYSALIS plumber," said Edith. "But I'll look at it first. Mrs.
Lewis is asleep."
After half an hour of dipping, working with detergents and scalding water, and with the use of a plunger, Edith had the sink cleaned and draining swiftly. "Aunt Edith, you're wonderful," enthused Linnie, who had watched the whole operation with interest, asking questions as if she considered Edith an experienced plumber. "T'll say," said the relieved Amanda. "A plumber would have charged a fortune to do that, and then might not have come. For weeks." And I should have called a plumber, Edith was thinking angrily to herself; she hadn't done such a menial job for years. Why should she do it now? "It is wonderful to know how to do things like that," Linnie said, as starry-eyed as if she had just received a dozen roses. "Paul doesn't make as much money as Daddy, and I'll have to learn ways to save it. I'll bet there are many things you could teach me, Aunt Edith— things about, about running a house that I never dreamed of.
Will you teach me? I so much need to know." "Why, surely I will, Linnie," Edith promised, wondering vaguely when any teaching could be sandwiched in between her duties with Mrs.
Lewis and Linnie's own harumscarum schedule, for Linnie was always on the go. "They always had housekeepers," said Mrs.
Lewis when Edith told her about it. "Poor Linnie spent her summers here with them and her winters in boarding school, and she 191 never learned the first thing about keeping house. A mother will put herself out to teach a child, but not a housekeeper. I had my hands full during those years. Cory's father was an invalid for years before he died and then I got this bad leg, and I couldn't give Cory a hand with the child. We lived in San Francisco, and I only saw the little girl on visits." "It's too bad," sympathized Edith, thinking with genuine concern that Linnie's marriage might easily be jeopardized by ignorance and incompetence in the basic housekeeping principles. "I promised to teach her, but the time is so short, and I don't know just when I could do it." "If it wasn't for me—a useless old woman—you'd have lots of time." "Tt it wasn't for you," said Edith, "I wouldn't be here." I mustn't think of it, she told herself. It's too bad, but, after all, it isn't my responsibility, and I can't do anything about it now. It is a wonder the child grew up as successfully as she did—not a worry in the world. I don't think I ever saw a happier, more joyous person. INNIE was, too. Her lips were always curved to laughter, her eyes always tender with the inner burning of love.
Edith was curious about her friends, but somehow they never came there, even though Linnie had been home a whole week. "That's sweet of you to think of coming,' Linnie would say over the telephone. "But don't bother to drive by. I'm on my way to 192 town. [Il meet you there. We'll have lunch at Cathy's, or go to a show, or some other thing." She would rise from the telephone and say suddenly, "I'm going out," although she had said previously that she was going to stay home all day, practice her singing, get her clothes in order, or write letters.
Restless as a_ butterfly, Edith thought, just as beautifully gay, and just as irresponsible. Thursday Edith had her first check, made out in Mrs. Lewis' shaky handwriting, an occurrence she had forgotten entirely in connection with her job. It gave her a wonderful feeling, greater than she had thought possible from a mere thirty-five dollars. She began planning immediately what she would do with it, and remembered only then that she had meant to quit the next day after she came. What I ought to do is put it in the bank, she told herself, against the time when she should go back to live with Kit and Annette. Oh, Kit had been generous, buying her clothes and filling her needs, but she had felt guilty living off his bounty, and had limited herself to absolute necessities. Now she needed a few personal items before she should bank the rest. "Mrs. Lewis, can you spare me to go down town while you take your afternoon nap?" she asked next morning. "Why, surely," Mrs.
Lewis replied. "I'll be fine.
Take the whole afternoon and evening if you like.
Amanda can bring me my supper and help me to 'bed.
Linnie can read to me." "Oh, I won't need that much RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1950 time," said Edith. "I only want to go to the bank and do ¢ a little shopping." Nevertheless, she ended by taking that much time. First, in her anxiety to secure Mrs.
Lewis against any possible need, she missed her bus and arrived at the bank just after they had closed the doors.
Walking aimlessly, wondering what next to do, she passed a shoe store. | From the window display her eyes singled out a handsome pair of English walkers. 'They were of black calf, beautifully turned.
Edith couldn't resist trying them on.
They fitted her feet as if they had been the last upon which the shoes were made. | "Seventeen-fifty," the clerk told her in answer to her query. Why that was half her check, and of course, out of the question. She shook her head, eying them regretfully. The clerk was examining the end of the box. "No," he said. "They have been marked down to fourteen." "TI take them," said Edith, and when she went to pay for them the girl at the desk smiled. "Stockings to match?" she suggested, running her hand expertly into the leg of a sheer nylon, holding it against her skin for Edith to see. "Yes," said Edith. "T'll need stockings." She chose a pair that the clerk called Ruby Nectar, and escaped, hugging her purchases.
Feeling reckless, and remembering the struggle she had with her hair, she decided to go to a beauty salon for a shampoo.
Perhaps the operator could give her some pointers on how to manage it, and it had been DARK IN THE CHRYSALIS a long time since she had indulged in such an expense. "Why don't you have it cut?" suggested the operator, a young man with large, surprisingly deft hands. "No wonder you can't handle it. We could make you a coronet with what we cut off, perhaps a cluster of curls.
Hair style possibilities, suitable for every occasion, are endless." He brought out pictures, showed Edith her profile and back view, catching her hair up this way and that, crystallizing her indecision. "It so happens I have a cancellation and could give you a permanent." N the end he had his way, and four hours later Edith emerged from the salon with fifteen dollars less and her hair smartly clipped, waved, and coiffured. It seemed anticlimax to go home now, feeling so chic.
Half a block up a theatre marquee blazoned the title of a picture she had long wanted to see, along with the information, "last times today." Fidith's self-indulgence met no resistance and she paid for her ticket before calling the Lewis home. "Amanda, I'm having a spree," She said. "I'm going to a show. Mrs.
Lewis said that you could help her to bed and Linnie could read to her." "T've already give her her supper,' said Amanda. "Sure, you go on and go to a show, now. You need it, and I'll be glad to pay you back for helping me with the sink." "No pay necessary for that, but Pll get dinner for you on Sunday." "Oh!
Would you true?" Aman- 193 da cried, pleased. "I wanted awful bad to go to the country to see my daughter. It's her birthday Sunday, but I couldn't see how I'd get away. Mr.
Lewis promised I'd have my Sundays off, but I haven't had them." "You shall, from now on," promised Edith magnanimously. Never, in a long time, had Edith had such a day of abandoned freedom.
Spending her own money had done something definite to her.
Something good, she decided. She had pinched and held her emotions until her soul felt small and warped. Now she would not chide herself for unplanned spending. She loved the shoes, and thrilled whenever she thought of them. A suit would come next, and a hat. The praise of the operator about her hair was pleasant to her yet. "You look twenty years younger, Mrs. Ashe. If you won't take offense, I would say that you are a woman with glamor and no age." "Glamor indeed," scoffed Edith. Of course, they were paid to flatter the customers, but they didn't have to sound sincere, and the mirror bore him out. She still felt exhilarated when she went up the Lewis walk at ten-thirty. "Why, Aunt Edith, you've had your hair cut—and you are beautiful, simply stunning."
Linnie had been playing the piano in accompaniment to her singing, love songs of tenderness and passion. "If your sweetheart could have heard you, my dear," Edith parried, "he would have listed himself among the world's greatest be loved." (Continued on page 213) 
194 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1950
Gifts From the Tllormon Handicraft Shop Josie B. Bay Member, General Board of Relief Society Beautiful and creative handwork has ever been a tradition among Latter-day Saint women.
Nowhere can there be found an array of more unique, original, and useful articles than those displayed for sale at the Mormon Handicraft Shop, produced by the skillful hands of Church members.
Among the most attractive gifts are tea aprons, so satisfactory for sharing or wearing; lovely, dainty ones for serving, and the colorful coverall type for practical wear. Children's clothes, including suits for boys, and girls' dresses that are extremely neat and dainty, are appropriate for the approaching spring.
Dotted swiss in lovely _ colors, sheer imported organdy or washable, crisp cottons, are available in a variety of sizes.
There is something very engaging about the colorful figures of rag dolls for sale at the shop.
Their softness makes them ideal toys for very young children.
Lovely ceramic figurines make an artistic and decorative display, each bit of work alive with its own personality.
These figurines are made from materials nich in quality and warm in color, molded and tinted b y the hands of our own Latter-day
Saint women.
Pretty and simply designed hooked and braided rugs are produced by imaginative and energetic women, and the shop has a wide variety of colors and patterns.
Relief Society women are urged to buy gifts from the Mormon Handicraft Shop.
Articles for your own home and beautiful gifts for all occasions may be obtained there.
Page 194

A Place For Three
Ezra /. Poulsen
THOUGH Jamie Ryan knew he'd acquired a wife worth her weight in gold when he married Daisy Marsh, the little redheaded girl he'd met at the ward reunion, he didn't realize how wonderful she was. It takes time to learn the true worth of a woman.
Even when she told him they were going to have a baby, he failed to see the extent of her resourcefulness, for he went to his classes at the law school that day with a faraway look in his eyes, and his mind so muddled with worry he scarcely heard the lectures. Trying to live on his G.I. pay in their stuffy attic apartment was a sort of sleight of hand performance within itself, just for him and Daisy. But with a baby coming— well— that was something requiring action.
It followed , therefore, that he went secretly downtown and secured a job for the afternoons in a hardware store. The act was perfectly in keeping with his belief that the man is the natural head of the household, and the protector of the weaker sex. A woman going to have a baby had to be cherished and taken care of, and kept in a pleasant state of mind. Daisy wouldn't approve, so he didn't intend to tell her about the new arrangement.
She was very insistent on his putting all his time on his studies.
That evening, however, he spent the last of his pocket money for a bouquet of carnations which he took home to her.
"Oh, darling," cried Daisy, after staring at him and the flowers in blank amazement, ''oh, they're beautiful! But— but— you shouldn't.
You can't afford . . . ." She got no further. The only way she could express her feelings was to throw herself into his arms and half smother him with kisses.
Jamie's heart beat wildly as he held her. The extra effort required to take a job in addition to carrying on his exacting legal studies seemed to vanish into nothing. He felt very noble and heroic. ''Sweetheart," he murmured, "it's a pleasure. I wish
I could have done more. But I will as time goes on."
Then, impulsively, as if to demonstrate his power as a man, he picked her up bodily, and carried her across the room, depositing her gently on the sofa. "Honey," he said, kneeling beside her, "I'll take the best care of you. In fact, I won't let you do a thing. You must rest and take care of yourself until the baby comes."
Daisy, with her loose red hair falling around her head on the pillow, was ravishing. Her eyes, which Jamie had always thought were some kind of mixture of amber and fire, seemed unusually bright. And her upturned lips, parted half in expectancy, and half in sheer amazement, were moist. "Jamie, of course I'll take care of myself.
You're a perfect dear. The flowers are gorgeous. Now, let me get up and fix your supper. You must be starved."
Page 195

196
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— MARCH 1950
"Oh, no, you stay here. Fll get supper/'
He was really in earnest. But Daisy arose, put on her apron, and began bustling about in a most housewifely manner. She could laugh that one off as one of Jamie's sweet gestures, not to be taken literally. ''Now, darling, you get to work on those law books."
Seeking his usual corner by the table in the tiny living room, he laid out his books in the order of their importance, and began to study. Jamie was a methodical person. First, there was the volume on contracts, next came torts, and finally evidence. Each had to have its share of sweat, he'd often said laughingly. And now, term exams were less than a week away. But he found it very hard to concentrate, though he sat on a small chair, and let his chest tilt forward aggressively. His mind seemed to be in a whirl of emotional disturbances, involving hardware and the uncertainty of coming events. pOR a week Jamie came home every evening with his law books under his arm, after a hard half day in the very unlegal atmosphere of the hardware store. Daisy didn't seem to suspect any change in his program, a fact for which he was thankful. But, in spite of his best efforts at studying, which kept him up until well after midnight, he felt himself slipping. He began to be haunted by fear, and this made it more difficult to concentrate.
In the exams, he fell down badly. In fact, he knew without being told, he'd failed in contracts. On top of it all, Daisy seemed completely indifferent with regard to her condition. Several times, when he came home, she seemed to have been in the house herself only long enough to get her coat and hat off.
Then, she'd pitch right in getting supper, protesting when he tried awkwardly to help her.
'Tou know, Jamie, we're getting along nicely on your G.I. pay this month. I'm going to be able to manage until next week when your check comes."
"You're wonderful," he complimented. His mouth was so dry he felt as if he'd choke. He'd made up his mind to quit school, and had arranged at the store to begin work full time. In fact, he'd missed all his classes for three whole days. Perhaps, here was the time to begin to tell her. "Don't worry about the extra cost of the baby. I'm working something out to take care of that." He kept his serious face buried in the book on contracts, though he could scarcely tell one word from another.
"Oh, yes." Daisy tossed her head back lightly. "We'll manage all right." She looked at him suspiciously, then, with a queer little smile, turned away.
He celebrated his first pay check by buying more flowers, and getting a nice cake from the bakery. Her soul seemed to shine in her eyes as she took the flowers. "Oh—oh—Jamie." Tears began to glisten in her eyes.
The telephone rang. She turned to answer it. "The Dean's office," she said quietly, handing him the receiver.
His hand trembled as he took it, then, listening, his face turned white. "Yes sir, I—I—feel it's the only way." The voice at the other end spoke some length. "Yes, yes sir, I'll call and see you. I promise." He hung up.
When he turned to Daisy again, he found her regarding him with deep yearning, and the light in her eyes made it clear she understood everything. The corners of her firm little mouth twisted several times as if she was about to speak. Finally, she rushed into his arms. "Jamie, you crazy, wonderful idiot," she sobbed. "Didn't you know you didn't have to do that?"
"Daisy," he said sternly, holding her at arm's length, "I want you to understand I'm head of this household. I did what I knew was best for you and the baby. Understand?" He felt like shaking her but, in deference to her condition, he refrained.
Daisy listened meekly. Then, suddenly she recovered her own poise, and going over to her purse lying on the table, she pulled out a check and showed it to him. He looked at it and gasped. It was twice as big as his own. "You see, I'm working for the poultry association over at the egg candling plant," she explained, "and, darling, I'm good at it. I worked at the job three years back home before I married."
He started to scold her, but she kept on talking. "I'll have a sock full of money months before junior gets here. And—and—I'm enjoying the work immensely. I never felt better in my life. But, honey, where do you think we'll be in ten years from now if you quit school? Don't you realize I've, we've got a stake in your future?"
Jamie felt his shoulders sag painfully, but he was staring at her with a new and wonderful light in his eyes. Slowly, he drew himself up with determination. "Darling, I'll be the best lawyer you ever saw," he declared. Then, turning to the phone, he dialed the Dean's number.