[Vol57 | May 1970 | Page 308 | General Feature | Notes from the Field— Relief | Society Activities]
Relief Society Activities Modesto Stake (California) Holds Successful Relief Society Convention, November 13, 1969 Front row, in center: President Belle S. Spafford; Catherine Openshaw, President, Modesto Stake Relief Society. Sister Openshaw reports: ''A most successful Relief Society Convention with the theme 'Relief Society, A Key to Eternal Blessings,' was held in our stake. Over seven hundred sisters attended and the phases of Relief Society were shown through music, the spoken word, demonstration, and display. "Our special guests were President Spafford and Sister Helen Lach of the General Board. The Singing Mothers performed, and a dramatization, 'Home Is My Harbor,' was presented. "Lovely displays of ceramics, candle making, chocolate dipping, cake decorating, and how to draw, design, and complete a quilt were popular with everyone. Clothing was modeled and the bake shops and candy shop were visited by everyone. "As people entered the foyer they were welcomed by a waterfall with real water, and garden, and the theme depicted by gold keys, each representing a lesson department or service of Relief Society. "We were pleased with the cooperation from each of the wards in making this a very successful event." — Hillside Stake (Utah), Wasatch Ward Presents ""A Date With Christmas,'' December 5, 1969 Pictured at left: Grace O. Ensign, President, Wasatch Ward Relief Society; ninth from left: Harvene Willis, Education Counselor; Susannah Palmer. SecretaryTreasurer; Bessie Memmott, Homemaking Counselor; second from right: Wanda Pulsipher, homemaking leader. Leah C. Wood, President, Hillside Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Wasatch Ward of our stake held a lovely bazaar with the theme 'A Date With Christmas.' Round tables were set up in the foyer displaying the lovely handmade articles, while the bakery, candy, and white elephant shops were in the cultural hall. "Dinner was served to 275 guests and a group of gaily dressed carolers entertained under a decorated Christmas lamp, accompanied by a violin sextet. It was a successful evening, both socially and financially."' 386 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details, regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1970, page 48. Color pictures are not used in this department. May 1970 Canadian Mission—Toronto Stake Relief Society Conference October 18-19, 1969 Front row from left ro right: Olive Davies, Secretary, Marie Templeman, Counselor; Phyllis Baker, President, Toronto Stake Relief Society; Ellen Barnes of the General Board of Relief Society; Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor of Relief Society; Belle S. Spafford, General Relief Society President; Emma Marr Petersen (wife of Elder Mark E. Petersen); Ardella Davey, Mission Relief Society Supervisor; Elva M. Adamson, President; Alberta E. Smith, Counselor; Mildred Smith, Counselor, mission Relief Society; Valarie Shelton and Ida Perkins, music directors. Sister Davey reports: ''At the request of Elder Mark E. Petersen, we extended an invitation to Toronto Stake Relief Society to participate in our annual Mission Relief Society Conference. 'Theme for the conference was 'Fifty Golden Years,' representing the establishment of the Church in Eastern Canada. We were delighted to have as our special guests Elder Petersen and his lovely wife, President Spafford, and Sisters Madsen and Barnes. 'In addition to the inspiring addresses a luncheon and fashion show were presented, an evening reception honored our guests, and the Singing Mothers performed. It was indeed a wonderful and well-received event."' Wellington Stake (New Zealand) Singing Mothers Present Concert and Sing at Stake Conference April 27, 1969 Front row, left to right: Charlotte Soloman, responsible for floral arrangements; Kathrine Berends, Education Counselor; Heidi McKay, chorister; Avice Fau, President; Yvonne Meaklin, organist. Sister Fau reports: ''Our Singing Mothers presented a concert, which so impressed the stake president that he requested them to perform at stake conference the following week. It was truly an honor for the sisters, and they enjoyed the opportunity very much."' Las Vegas Stake (Nevada) Presents ''Christmas Creations"' December 5, 1969 Las Vegas Stake Relief Society officers, left to right: Barbara L. Roberts, homemaking leader; LaRue S. Sutton, Homemaking Counselor; Velma H. Stewart, Education Counselor; lleann W. Peterson, President. Sister Peterson reports: ''Our Christmas project was a day-long event at which the sisters from each ward and branch could display their lovely articles of handwork, along with any decorating ideas they wished to share. "The ward presidencies served as hostesses. Holiday foods were available and a bake sale was held. In one foyer of the building a display featuring lovely decorations which could be made from native plants in Southern Nevada was aptly called 'Christmas in the Desert.' In the other foyer, a display called 'An Old-Fashioned Christmas' impressed many. A nativity scene which had been renovated and refurbished by Relief Society sisters was displayed in front of the building. "Stake and full-time missionaries were on hand with contacts, and several met with the presidency in the chapel where Relief Society was explained to them. All were impressed with the bazaar and with the scope of Relief Society."' May 1970 Smithfield Stake (Utah), Smithfield Fourth Ward Presents ''Swiss Holiday'' Ursula Z. Jaussi, in charge of the ''Pottassurie Conditorie."' Selena G. Low, President, Smithfield Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Fourth Ward of our stake presented an outstanding bazaar with the theme 'Swiss Holiday.' From the moment you entered the building you seemed actually to be in Switzerland. All of the shops had Swiss names with English translation, as pictured. The decoration was outstanding, as were the items available. "The movie, 'Yellowstone Cubs,' was presented for the children's entertainment while parents browsed. A sidewalk cafe provided a delightful place to rest and eat. All of the sisters working in any capacity wore Swiss costumes. It was indeed one of the most delightful bazaars ever held in our stake."' Mount Ogden (Utah), Fifty-Second Ward Sponsors "Plum Pudding Project,'' October 1969 Mena White mixes as Anna Udy, Sara Buck, Retha Ellsworth, Tessie Sessions, Flossie Hurst, and Agusta Davis assist in measuring, filling and weighing cans of plum pudding. Edvenia J. Malan, President, Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society, reports: 'One of the most unique homemaking activities in our stake this year was undertaken by the Fifty-second Ward Relief Society. Each year they can and sell plum pudding. Each can is uniformly packed, processed in roasters, and sealed. Twenty-nine women worked for two days on this project. The puddings are becoming so famous that orders are coming from as far away as California, and demand is beginning to exceed supply. '"'We are very proud of the efforts of these sisters. Bernice Gerritsen is President of the Fifty-second Ward Relief Society.'' Ben Lomond South Stake (Utah), Ogden Fortieth Ward Presents Old-Fashioned Bazaar, November 14, 1969 Left to right: Lauralie Tanner, President, Ogden Fortieth Ward Relief Society; Evalyn Johnson, Homemaking Counselor; Gerlinde Braunberger, chairman, decorations committee; Charlene Neuenswander, homemaking leader; Jeannie Birkeland, Education Counselor. Phylis B. Koldewyn, President, Ben Lomond South Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Ogden Fortieth Ward in our stake presented a bazaar with an old-fashioned theme, carrying the theme out beautifully. ''Several sisters made delicious scones. Root beer floats and ice cream sodas were sold at Ye Olde Soda Shoppe. An old-fashioned barber shop and a barber pole added to the atmosphere. "The knitting booth featured an antique spinning wheel, and many other oldfashioned articles set the scene. The sisters, dressed in period costumes, fit right into the setting. Movies were shown to the children so the adults could enjoy the bazaar. It was a delightful success, attributed to wise and early planning and great enthusiasm." SOURIE DITORI aa EG al Nn i weriieeting East Rigby Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present "'Prelude to Christmas,'' December 4, 1969 Donna R. Freeman, President, East Rigby Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A successful and memorable musical, 'Prelude to Christmas,' was presented in our stake tabernacle which was beautifully decorated. Members of the stake presidency took the parts of the Wise Men and other Priesthood members performed special musical numbers. "The Singing Mothers were directed by Sherilynn Bitter, with stake organist Beth Summers at the piano and Bertha Byington at the organ. Maye Meservy and Robert Bitter narrated. "It was a very inspirational evening and was enjoyed by a large and appreciative audience."' FL ee ee Se Seatac I Chicago Stake (Illinois) Presents Singing Mothers Concert, "Music Around the World," October 25, 1969 Front row, in dark dresses, left to right: Lova Snider, First Counselor, Chicago Stake Relief Society; Fern E. Van Orden, President; Carol Morgan, Second Counselor. At far right in dark dress: Gloria Strauss, chorister; to her right: Marion Monson, organist. Sister Van Orden reports: ''Because of the interest generated in Singing Mothers by the presentation of a concert, each ward and branch in our stake now has an active group of Singing Mothers. "We feel that the concert was outstanding. There were more than one hundred singers. The theme of the concert was 'Music Around the World,' and each ward and branch represented a different country. S

ome of the numbers were highlighted by folk dancing. There were fifty sisters. Behind the singers holding flags representing the states in the United States. One bishop reported that because of the interest in music generated by the concert their ward now has a ward choir. "It was a beautiful and moving concert, capped by the stake Singing Mothers presenting a finale of five numbers. There was a standing room only audience." ————— Jackson Stake (Mississippi) Presents Christmas Carnival and Bazaar, December 6, 1969 Stake and ward officers of Jackson Stake Relief Societies, left to right: Vanera Morris, stake Education Counselor; Edith Norton, stake Homemaking Counselor; Jenola Price, President, Jackson Ward; Martha Bennett, President, Greenwood Ward; Marie Beasley, President, Red Star Ward; Arlene Koelling, President, Meridian Ward; Edith Patterson, stake President; Mildred Taylor, President Vicksburg Ward; Sue Edwards, Counselor, Greenville Ward; Mildred Stacy, Counselor, Columbus Ward; Beatrice Dunn, Counselor, Crystal Springs Ward. Sister Patterson reports: ''Each of the wards in our stake worked very hard to make our bazaar and carnival a success. All but one of the wards had to spend from one to three hours in travel. The bazaar was a family affair, and the Jackson ward MIA provided a nursery and the MIA of the stake a talent show in the evening. 'We feel that this was not only successful in bringing families and the stake closer together, but the sisters of Relief Society had many wonderful experiences in planning and presenting the activity.'' Lesson Department ECORI IORI OIE * HOMEMAKING * ¥ Development Through % % Homemaking Education *; Woman's Role in % Family Preparedness % x $ 9 § * 2K 2K 2K 26K OK ORK AK OK KKK KK KK Discussion 11— The Art of Cooking From The Storage Closet (Cont.) 'Behold, the Lord Requireth the Heart and a Willing Mind; and the Willing and Obedient Shall Eat the Good of the Land in These Last Days." (D&C 64:34.) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, August 1970 Southern Hemisphere: January 1971 OBJECTIVE: To alert the Latter-day Saint woman to the need for and the use of products rich in protein in her family storage plan. INTRODUCTION: All of us who are concerned with the health and welfare of our families realize the need for a balanced as well as a nutritional diet. We need to do more than just keep our families alive, we must keep them well. Foremost among the _ foods which are necessary for the maintenance of bodily health and vigor are the products that are rich in protein. Fortunately, they are also foremost among the foods which are storable, such as dried beans, peas, rice, powdered milk, peanut butter, canned meat and fish, etc. 394 Whenever a suggested list of foods for storage is compiled, it includes several, if not all, of the above mentioned protein foods for they not only help to safeguard our health, but they also add variety and balance to our diet. THE IMPORTANCE OF PROTEIN IN THE DIET Scientists have found that protein is the basis for all living cells. Each cell of the body is dependent upon protein for growth and life. Next to water, protein is the most prevalent substance in the body. A. As a_ builder. Protein supplies the cells with the materials necessary to replace or replenish themselves and to build new tissue for growth and development. Our muscles, skin, hair, nails, and eyes are made up of cells of protein. B. As an operator. Protein aids in the use of other nutrients in the body. Enzymes, hormones, and hemoglobin are made of protein. Protein also supplies energy when carbohydrates are not available. C. Asa protector. Some of the proteins in the blood are responsible for protecting the body from infection, providing resistance and sometimes immunity to disease. USES OF FOODS RICH IN PROTEIN If we follow the advice that has been given we will be using the foods that we store so that they will become a part of our family's accustomed diet and a taste for them will be acquired. It is of no practical value to have quantities of any food lying unused and simply stored for some future emergency. Following are some suggestions which will help us utilize the protein foods that we store. 1. Dried beans, peas, and rice. (These are an inexpensive source of protein, B vitamins, and iron, as well as calories.)