[Vol57 | May 1970 | Page 366 | Home | I Can Hear the Birds Sing, Lettice 0. Rich | ]
With my mind on the clock ticking off wasted time, I didn't realize I was walking too fast for I Can Hear the Birds Sing her little legs, but she skipped along, apparently unconcerned, as long as I absently answered her ever-flowing questions. And then.. Abruptly, she stopped! "Now, what's the matter?" I cried impatiently, jerking her little hand. Completely unaware of my irritation, she looked up at me with her appealing blue eyes and said softly, "I can hear the birds sing, Mommy. Can't you hear the birds sing?" I stopped short. Slowly a big lump welled up in my throat as I looked down at her upturned face, full of all the sweetness and innocence of a precious child of God. And then I raised my head and listened. Why, the birds were singing... Proclaiming the miracle of spring, the rebirth of a sleepy earth awakening from a long winter sleep, and God's goodness to the world. Yes, the birds were singing in the bright blue sunshine of a_ beautiful spring day, and I hadn't even noticed! She pulled at my arm, waiting for an answer. "Yes," I said, smiling down at her, "I can hear the birds sing, too. They're telling us to be happy because spring is here." I quickened my pace a little to make up for lost time. She was thoughtful for a few steps, searching intently for brown feathered wings on nearby branches, and then she stopped again. "Who tells the birds about spring?' she asked seriously. "Who tells the birds about spring?" I echoed, with a strange confused feeling deep inside and little pinpricks of conscience reminding me of _ lost 

367 May 1970

 teaching moments. Then, in that revealing instant of time when genuine values come into focus, I realized what was important, really important, and it wasn't a frantic race with time. There would be other dental appointments, other cakesales, and many other times to clean house, but childhood never returns. In that sobering moment, I suddenly realized that I wanted her memories of childhood to include this awareness of a beautiful spring morn, shared by a mother who understood. I stooped to hug her. "The little birds watch for the first signs of spring," I said. "Shall we try to find some of them?" She bubbled with excitement like an effervescent fountain as we walked hand in hand the rest of the way to the store. We talked about the new leaves on the trees. We discovered tiny green buds in a tulip bed by the street. We giggled at the brown bugs crawling along the ground. We smelled the fragrant fruit blossoms adrift on the spring air. We felt the warm south breezes. We watched fluffy white clouds form a Teddy-bear picture before it dispersed into wispy trails across the blue sky. And we stopped ever so often to hear the happy songs of the birds, reminding me of Longfellow's description: "songs in many _ keys, sweeter than instrument of man e'er caught." Somehow I kept the dental appointment. Somehow the cake was delivered (just a little late). Somehow my house was eventually restored to order. But, most important of all, somehow I had taken time for a few preclous moments, which would never come in the same way again, to share a rich experience with my little daughter. Many years have passed since that spring morning, and she is now a lovely blossoming flower herself. But each year as nature repeats the splendor of God's gifts to the world, I can hear the echo of her words, "I can hear the birds sing, Mommy. Can't you hear the birds sing?" UNEXPECTED HAPPINESS One day a yellow crocus Will show its shining cup. Or a hyacinth will peek Through frozen ground. One day a warming breeze Will sway the budding willow, Or a robin newly come will sing.