[Vol57 | May 1970 | Page 372 | Home | How many Ways to Stroganoff?, Arlene | L. Bascom]
Many Ways to Stroganoff? ROUND STEAK STROGANOFF 2 Ibs. Round steak 1 10¥%2-0z. Can consommé Yc. Flour Y2 soup can water 1 tsp. Salt 1 bay leaf 1 tsp. Paprika - 1 tsp. Italian seasoning Yc. Salad oil 1 can whole mushrooms, drained Y2 c. Chopped onion 1 c. Dairy sour cream Cut meat into bite-sized pieces. Dredge in a mixture of the flour, salt, and paprika. Heat oil in skillet, add meat and brown, then add onion and sauté until barely tender. Add consommé, water, and seasoning. Cover and turn to very low, and simmer 45 minutes to 1 hour (or until meat is tender). It may be necessary to add a little more water as meat cooks. Stir in mushrooms and sour cream just before serving time. Heat briefly, and serve over rice. Serves 6. Because of the cream soup in the following recipe, it takes some extra watching as it simmers. As its name implies, however, the flavor is superior, and worth the extra watching. "SOUPER" STROGANOFF 1% Ibs. Round steak, cubed Ya tsp. Garlic purée flour to cover meat 2 beef bouillon cubes dissolved dash pepper in 1% c. Boiling water Y%4 c. Butter or margarine - 1 can cream of mushroom soup 1 can sliced mushrooms, drained 1 c. Dairy sour cream 1 medium onion, chopped noodles, as desired Dust meat with flour and pepper, then brown in butter in hot skillet. (Do not salt meat, as soups add sufficient.) Add the mushrooms, onion, and garlic purée, browning lightly before stirring in bouillon and soup. Cover with tight fitting lid and simmer for 1 hour, watching carefully, and stirring often. Gradually blend in sour cream just before serving. About 20 minutes before the Stroganoff is ready, begin cooking noodles, so Sauce does not stand after Stirring in sour cream. Serves 4-6. Discover another easy, easy way to Stroganoff when you use the sour cream as a topping instead of a sauce. For a really new touch, add dill pickles to the sour cream. TOP-NOTCH STROGANOFF 1 Ib. Ground beef 2 cans cream chicken soup 2 Cc. Onions, sliced thin 1 4-0z. Can mushrooms 2 tbsp. Butter 1 c. Dairy sour cream 1 tsp. Salt ¥Y2 c. Chopped dill pickles paprika Brown the ground beef and onions in butter. Add salt, then undiluted soup, and mushrooms with liquid. Cook over low heat until hot. Serve over two cups quick rice Prepared as directed on package. Top each serving with sour cream mixed with Pickles, and sprinkle with paprika. Serves 6-8. You can even whip up a Stroganoff casserole when you are caught without a supply of sour cream. Just use this recipe which has a surprise substitute for the sour cream. 

373 May 1970

 BURGER BUTTERMILK STROGANOFF 4 oz. Noodles Y% c. Catsup 1 Ib. Ground beef 2 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 1 medium onion, chopped (or less to taste) Yc. Flour 2 oz. Can mushroom bits pepper to taste and pieces ¥% tsp. Salt 1% c. Buttermilk Cook noodles according to package directions. Drain. Meanwhile in skillet combine ground beef and onions. Cook until meat is well-browned and onions are tender, stirring frequently. Take from heat and blend in the flour, pepper, and salt, then add catsup, Worcestershire sauce, mushrooms with liquid, and buttermilk. Mix well, then add cooked, drained noodles and stir again until mixed in well. Turn into 1% quart casserole and bake 25-30 minutes in a 350 degree oven. Top with mild cheese slices if desired, and return to oven until melted. No Stroganoff repertoire would be complete without a few recipes featuring the homemaker's handy helper—hamburger! The following recipe is almost faster than opening a can, but you can't tell it by the results. SPEEDY STROGANOFF 1 lb. Ground beef 1 can cream of mushroom soup 2 tbsp. Green pepper, diced 1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 2 tbsp. Onion, chopped ¥% c. Dairy sour cream Brown ground beef in enough shortening to keep it from sticking to pan, adding green pepper and onion when meat is almost done. When beef is richly browned, and green pepper and onion are tender, add soup and Worcestershire sauce, stirring until well blended. Stir in sour cream, and serve immediately over hot Chinese noodles, rice, or mashed potatoes. When you are in the mood for something more original—this is it—Meatball Stroganoff with a most unusual ingredient in the meatballs. Add cocoa for a delicious new flavor combination that rates approval from everyone. ALSACE MEATBALL STROGANOFF 1 Ib. Ground beef 2 tbsp. Butter 1 tsp. Salt 1 c. Diced onion 3 tbsp. Flour 1 2-0z. Can sliced mushrooms 1 tsp. Cocoa 1 c. Hot water 1 c. Dairy sour cream Add salt to the ground beef, and divide into 16 balls. Combine the flour, and cocoa and roll balls in mixture until evenly coated. Fry meatballs in the butter until well browned on all sides, meanwhile adding onion to skillet so it can be cooking at the same time. Add mushrooms with liquid, hot water, and the remaining flour and cocoa, stirring constantly until mixture thickens to gravy consistency. Turn heat to low, and blend in sour cream. This is especially good served over fluffy brown rice. Serves 4.5. There is room in the Stroganoff sphere for lots of imagination, so let yours soar. How about cube steaks instead of round steak for speedier preparation, or hamburger patties marinated in a sour cream sauce? You will find many other tempting possibilities. Perhaps you will even make Stroganoff cookery your specialty! 374 rr a yr? 5 ' A; Phe Kran) Wonder Helen Hinckley Jones = Deep in underground caves in Yugoslavia lives a remarkable fish— the Kran} Wonder. For two hundred years men have seen this queer creature that looks something like an eel and something like a lizard, but only recently have they even guessed how strange the proteus anguinus really is. Scientists knew that the fish lives only in very cold water in underground caves, that it has colorless skin, occasional scales, atrophied legs with three toes on the front feet and two on the back; that it has large, round sightless eyes, and a flattened tail, oval toward the tip. What they didn't know is that the Kran) Wonder gives birth sometimes to eggs and sometimes to live offspring—the only known creature to do this remarkable thing. Scientists had recovered eggs — and argued they were not live young; peasants had seen infant fish and argued that they were not eggs. Two ichthyologists, Kramer and Nusbum of the Ljubljana Institute finally solved the riddle. Live birth takes place when the water is below fifteen degrees centigrade; eggs are ejected when the water is warmer. No doubt ichthyologists will be studying the special organs that make this impossible thing possible. I only mentioned the names of the scientists and the technological institute so that you would know I wasn't "putting you on," not because I intend to enroll in the institute or assist these men in their research. I would rather think about people and how different their responses are in a warm environment and a cold one. Most of us don't live in dark caves, isolated from the world, even in self-made caves. Most of us aren't sightless unless we fit the description "none so blind as those who will not see." But we know the differance between warmth and coldness, and we respond even though our environment is modified by a hundred different influences. For many years I have observed children and young adults. This doesn't make me an expert, simply an experienced people-watcher, but this I have seen over and over again.