[Vol57 | May 1970 | Page 350 | Fiction | Whatever Will Become of Rory! Mary | Ek Knowles]
Zealand looks like the Garden of Eden. We have enjoyed the beauty all around us. The citrus groves are a lovely sight, and the hills are dotted with white sheep and black cows. The cabbage trees, Pohutukawa, and fern trees are most unusual. Between towns in the Northland it looks like one park after another. We never tire at looking down at Mormon Valley (Maromaku) from the highway. We are most grateful for the many friends we have met in this far-off land. They are generous, loving, and kind, some of God's choicest children. Surely as we return to our home in Utah, we shall never forget this beautiful country. We have been blessed and feel it has been a privilege to come to bring the gospel of peace to these people, whom we have learned to love. And so at the end of each day we count our blessings and stamp mental pictures in our minds of this beautiful country of New Zealand.

Whatever Will Become of Rory! Mary Ek Knowles @ It was after five when Elsie Holbrook saw Mr. Vanderhook's station wagon drive up in front of the house. Mr. Vanderhook was bringing Rory and the other neighborhood boys home from his son Paul's birthday party which had been celebrated at Pleasure Park thirty-five miles away. She gave a relieved sigh and called, '""Rory's home, Susan." Her nine-year-old daughter came to stand with her by the window. "Now, Mom," Susan said seriously, "make Rory practice 'Puppets' March' with me and no silliness!" Elsie looked tenderly at Susan. This was her first piano recital and she and Rory were to play a duet. Already Susan was bathed and in her robe, her blonde head heavy with giant-sized rollers. 350 "No silliness, darling,' she promised, remembering yesterday's practice when twelve-yearold Rory had tried to play with a tray balanced on his head. She watched the boys spill out of every door of the car and scatter in aS many directions, but there was no Rory, no mop of red hair. She saw Mr. Vanderhook get out of the station wagon and walk towards the house and her heart snagged. Rory was hurt! Rory was in the hospital! Then she saw the angry set of Mr. Vanderhook's jaw and, as she opened the door, braced herself for the complaints she knew were coming. "Rory wouldn't come home with me. He said he would come home on the next bus. I tried to bring him anyhow, but he went in The Barrel." She saw the purple bump on his forehead. ""Ma'am, I was Marine Droll Sergeant in World War II and scoutmaster in our ward for ten years, but this kid of yours. He's..." he shrugged, unable to put Rory into words. "I couldn't wait any longer. I have a plane to catch for Chicago at seven." "It was nice of you to try to " But Mr. Vanderhook was out of earshot. "Mama!" Susan wailed. "He won't be home in time and so we can't practice and I'll make mistakes!" "I'll telephone Daddy. He has the car and he can drive to Pleasure Park and bring Rory home." She was already dialing the plant. Why, oh why!. She asked herself for the millionth time, did Rory always do the wrong thing. The sixteen-yearold twins, Wilson and Wendell, had never given them a moment's worry. They were both at Lake Sylvia for the summer now as camp counselors. And Susan was such an amiable little girl. But Rory! Whatever would become of Rory! "What is it, honey?" Duane's voice was impatient. She told him. "Darling, could you please drive to." "VXX is broken down!" "Oh no!" VXX was the monster machine at the plant. When it broke down everything came to a standstill until it was fixed. Duane was the head mechanic. "What goes on in that kid's head!" Duane exploded. "I'll get home as soon as possible, honey." He hung up. Maybe Amy Fields could drive her to Pleasure Park. For the next fifteen minutes she frantiWhatever Will Become of Rory! Cally telephoned her friends. No one was home at Amy's. Brenda Way's four-year-old had. A strep throat, Marsha Lindsay's washer had just gone haywire and Marsha was mopping up three inches of water. Carla Sima was in a real stew. Wayne, had just telephoned that he was _ bringing four—mind you, four men from the New York office home for dinner! Elsie telephoned the bus station. There was a bus every hour. If Rory came home on the six o'clock bus there would still be time to practice. But he would have to walk from the bus station. She had just hung up and collapsed in the big chair when the telephone rang. It was old Mrs. Rose asking in her quavery voice, "Will Rory be by soon to cut my lawn?" "But he cut it yesterday— didn't he?" "No. He was too late getting here. I was already watering. He promised to come early today." "I'll have him call you the minute he gets home." She hung up, remembering that Rory had left in plenty of time yesterday to cut Mrs. Rose's lawn. Where had he gone? To Swede's Junk Yard, she decided. Ai seven Rory had still not come. She had telephoned the plant three times to learn that VXX was still not fixed, had tried four times to get Amy. Finally, she telephoned Mrs. Davidson, the piano teacher. "You say Rory won't be here?" Elsie could have sworn that Mrs. Davidson was relieved. "Well, Susan can play 'Butterfly Waltz.' She does it beautifully." 

351 May 1970

 Elsie listened to Susan practice, thinking angrily, if Rory is such a trial for Mrs. Davidson, I'll stop his lessons! Then all at once she felt tired. Imagine trying to teach Rory anything. At 7:30 Duane _ telephoned. "Honey, this monster is still broken and I can't leave. Please explain to Susan. Has Rory?" "No, he isn't home." All at once she began to cry. "I just know something terrible has happened to him. Maybe some maniac." "Heaven help the maniac who tangles with Rory," he said wryly, then added gently, "stop crying, honey. He's_ probably having a ball and completely lost track of time. Okay now?" "Okay." She blinked back the tears. "I'll see you later." Ste put Duane's and Rory's dinner in the warming oven and rode with May Johns and her two little girls to the recital. Susan performed beautifully without one wrong note, but Elsie sat stiffly on her chair, her head pounding. Refreshments followed the recital, but she couldn't eat. She kept telephoning home, praying that Rory would answer. But he didn't. May let her and Susan out of the car just as the lights went on in the house. Rory was home. Rory was safe! But it wasn't Rory. Duane met them at the door. He lifted Susan in his arms and said, "Hi, Princess. Sorry I missed the recital." "She played a solo, Daddy, and did a beautiful job!" Elsie praised. "A solo?" Duane's eyes met hers. 352 "A solo..." Elsie said. "Tll play it for you now, Daddy." And Susan got down from his arms, and in a few seconds the strains of "Butterfly Waltz" floated through the house. "Well, what do you say we take a nice drive to Pleasure Park and get Rory?" Duane was trying to give the problem a light touch. Just then the phone rang, and Elsie grabbed the receiver. "Mom?" It was Rory and he sounded forlorn, abandoned. "Rory, where are you? Are you all right? What happened?" "T bought a bus ticket and then I lost it," the words came tumbling out. "And I didn't have any more money so when the last bus came I told the busman I would sweep out the bus if he would give me a ride home, and so he did and the man here at the bus station is letting me use the phone, and Mom, could I have about a million hot dogs with mustard and _ ketchup? I—I haven't had anything to eat since noon. Gosh, everybody in the world came walking by, eating juicy hamburgers and hot dogs. Can I, Mom? Hot dogs with dill pickles?" She was relieved he was alive, well, hungry. She almost said "Yes, my darling. [ll cook you anything you want, my poor hungry little boy." Then the anxiety of the day came back to her. "Rory, you should have come home with Mr. Vanderhook! Mrs. Rose called and." "Gee, Mom, I'm sorry. I was going to." "Why didn't you cut her lawn yesterday?" "Well, you see, it was like this. I was over to Swede's and he has a sore back and he had a load of steel to move and he said he'd pay me extra and." "And so you helped him and forgot Mrs. Rose! I'm coming down to get you, Rory. Don't move from there! Not one inch!" "Yes, Ma'am." She slammed down the receiver and told Duane what had happened. Duane groaned. "What's going to become of that kid!" "He isn't mean, Duane." She had to defend Rory. "Nothing he does is sadistic or." "But, honey, he has no talent for anything but getting into hot water. I can see Rory grown and losing job after job. What company would even hire him. If I could just find one ray of hope, just one small ray—I'll go and get him," he said tiredly. "lll get him," Elsie kissed him. "Susan is almost through playing and she will want your Whatever Will Become of Rory! Praise. We'll have a serious talk with Rory. Everything is going to be all right, darling." She said it confidently, but as she drove to the bus station she remembered what a nightmare the day had been with the complaints and the frantic telephoning to get a ride to Pleasure Park. All because Rory had absolutely no sense of responsibility! Maybe they hadn't been strict enough with him, but from now on he was going to toe the mark! When she reached the bus station she saw Rory standing out in front. His white T shirt was streaked with what she knew must be black grease. Rory saw her and grinned and his freckled face shone. She remembered Mr. Vanderhook's anger, Mrs. Rose's complaint, and Susan playing a solo instead of a duet, and suddenly she was so angry at her son she was shaking. So help her, she would grab him and shake him hard! "Rory Atkinson Holbrook, you. Are in hot water over your head!" she exploded and _ grabbed him. "Present for you, Mom!" he held up a silver plastic loving cup. She was like a boxer thrown off balance, confused, floundering. There was nothing she could do but take the loving cup. "I won it,".. She heard Rory say. "I helped the man in the shooting gallery and he gave me a free try. I hit every rabbit, pow! Pow!" 

353 May 1970

 She read the inscription on the loving cup "To the World's Most Beautiful Woman," and anger drained out of her and she felt loved, very special and misty eyed. "IT mean that on the cup, Mom," he said sincerely. "I had to win it for you." "Thank you, son," her voice choked off. "I'm sorry I caused so much trouble. I'll apologize to Mrs. Rose and I'll clip her hedge and won't charge her extra." And she won't be angry anymore, Elsie knew. In that moment she knew there was a place in the economic world for Rory. Beneath the mischief was a vivid imagination, even a kindness, certainly an understanding of people.