[Vol57 | May 1970 | Page 357 | Home | Collector's Item, Betty | G. Spencer]
COLLECTOR'S ITEM Betty G. Spencer @ A casual observer might think tnat we are operating an animal shelter, but it just isn't so! It's simply that I have three children with a natural affinity for animals. I've answered to "Mama" for over eighteen years, now, and this affection for gathering a collection began as soon as the eldest child could clutch at a toy in his playpen. Over the years we have made a home for shaggy dogs, hunting dogs, skinny dogs, and lost dogs; assorted sizes, colors, and varieties of cats; cannibalistic guppies; plain and fancy goldfish; snails; bow] turtles; a bilingual parakeet; and a covey of pigeons. These animals were collected out of pure love, however, and were not a bit of bother to anyone—except me! The real trouble began when my two youngest boys decided they would make a lot of money and went into the rabbit business. This venture began a year and four months ago. Profit: zero. Expense: (to father) a goodly sum. These are particular rabbits, you see. They live in especially constructed apartments made from wooden rose boxes. They can't eat ordinary greens, either. They need "those pellets they sell up at the co-op, because they are a balanced diet, with vitamins and minerals and all that stuff!" The rabbit population at our place is about twelve, give or take a few bunnies. Last week I decided that something had to go. Rabbits! After a scouting trip about the neighborhood, the boys reported that there was, indeed, a market for rabbits. It was just that they would have to finance the potential buyers they had lined up. "Cash on the barrelhead, boys," I advised. "But, Mother," they chorused, "nobody has any money. Would it be all right if we traded the rabbits for something else? Something useful," they added hastily. "Well," I pondered, "I guess that would be all right—" "Gee, thanks, Mom," they exclaimed, pounding me on the back enthusiastically. The kitchen door banged shut as I slowly straightened up and gingerly rubbed my back. I watched with a nervous foreboding as the boys pulled their rabbit-laden wagons out of the yard. In short order I vetoed a rooster, another dog, and a chameleon. Finally, the boys made an acceptable deal—three rabbits for one western sand turtle. This trade suited me just fine. Turtles don't bark, need a license, or eat much. The boys spent the rest of the afternoon admiring the latest addition to what I hoped was a dwindling pet collection. I should have recognized that the successful trade would lead to more complicated bartering. This morning four assorted sized boys lay sprawled on their stomachs under the big maple tree. (I have been advised that this is the appropriate posture for viewing turtles.) As I made my bed, an alarming conversation drifted through the open window. "He's a real nifty turtle. You made a good trade, Brent." "Yeh," replied my nine-year-old. '"He's a beaut. I really got a good deal." "How many rabbits do you have left?" "Nine.": "Good. Let's go down to Danny's place and see how many he'll take to trade." "Okay," agreed my sprout, as he stood up and put the turtle in a box. "I hope nine is enough. That sure is a keen looking goat!"