[Vol57 | May 1970 | Page 378 | Home | A "Beddy Dupey" Tradition, Hattie | B. Maughan.]
"BEDDY DUPEY" TRADITION Hattie B. Maughan # With love and nostalgic memories I have just set the last stitches in two "Beddy Dupeys." They are destined to find their way into the loving arms of two of my expected posterity, a first great-grandchild, and a latest (I refuse to say last) grandchild. In case you do not know what a Beddy Dupey is (you won't find it in Webster's Unabridged) it is a baby quilt. But not just any baby quilt. It must have been cuddled and chewed upon and cherished until it has a character of its own and has been christened by its owner as Beddy Dupey, Pilt, Blanky, or some other endearing name. Our youngest daughter who is about to present us with our twenty-fifth grandchild (only five are hers) gave the name Beddy Dupey to her quilt. Others of the children called theirs "Pilt," "Blanky," or simply possessively "Mine." Because of the exclusive ownership of a Beddy Dupey it can never be passed on from one child to another. As the lengthening limbs of a child make the baby quilt obviously too short or too narrow it is still cherished, smuggled into bed, wrapped around a kitten or a puppy, or just embraced as a loving, old-time friend. Since it will be a coverlet for an infant it must be as soft and downy as a baby's cheek but, since it will also be expected to grow up with the child, it should be as durable as a pair of denims. I have chosen for my quilts a good quality outing flannel. It is dainty but colorful, tiny pink and blue flowers on a white background. The general effect is blue, but there is a sprinkling of pink so either Sex may possess it and conform to the customary color for either a boy or a girl. It is filled with the best orlon bat. A one-pound bat will make three baby quilts. It is tied three inches apart with orlon yarn. A tied quilt is fluffier than a quilted one and children love the ties. Be sure they are put in with good square knots so they won't pull out and be swallowed. Of course, nothing can guarantee that some of the ties will not be removed. There is nothing more persistent than a two-year-old's fingers or a four-year-old who has just learned 378 to use scissors. I know from sad experience that an angelic little cherub, after being tucked in for her nap, can slip out of her crib, get her blunt scissors and, while awaiting the arrival of the sandman, systematically clip out the ties in her Beddy Dupey. Since the edges will be dragged over many floors, mine are reinforced with blanket stitching in the same yarn with which the quilt is tied. A Beddy Dupey is closer to a child than his clothes. He has daily changes of clothes, but a quilt is constant security. A child may at first be attracted to the softness or the color, but when the attachment is formed, the complexion of the coverlet has nothing to do with its loveability. The grimier it becomes the more it is beloved. Squeamish mothers may shudder as a freshly bathed child grabs a corner of his soiled blanket to chew on as he goes to sleep. But separating the child from his or her Beddy Dupey for a necessary laundering can be a traumatic experience for mother and child. It is highly recommended that Daddy take the child to the store to get a popsicle while the necessary washing takes place. You modern mothers be grateful for a dryer to 'hurry the process. My days were not so fortunate. I had very unobtrusively slipped the Pilt into the washing one day. It hung dripping on the clothesline when my son returned from the store with his Daddy, chocolate ice cream generously smearing his face. "My Pilt," he screamed clasping its dampness to his gooey hands and face. My Beddy Dupeys are not dainty creations of satin and chiffon. They are made for service. Let no child of mine ever say to a child of hers, "Don't you dare take that pretty quilt your grandmother made you into the sandpile or the tree hut." That's what a Beddy Dupey is for.: It should see a child through the terrors of the night, the pleasures of the day, through sickness and through health. 379 Chapter 5 Synopsis: The night Jerusha was to spend with the Wilsons when her car broke down near their home has stretched into a permanent situation. Her presence in the home has manifested itself in many ways, some of which are obvious to everyone. Joe still resents her presence, but Jerusha has been able to comfort Amy, and has achieved a deep friendship with Suzey and Dennis. Jerusha has introduced Paul, the father of the children, to Lynn Barlow a schoolteacher. W Paul looked concerned, and Dennis almost burst with excitement. "Please, Dad, I wouldn't take any room, I a "Sh-h-h," Lynn said with her finger to her lips, her eyes twinkling at the boy. "We're rushing your father. I'll tell you, you wait and talk it over together." Then, quite suddenly, she shot a glance at Joe. "I just had another idea. How about dragging your big brother along to help keep you out of the goblin holes?" 380 Hazel K. Todd Jerusha had been watching the development with amused interest. Now she stole a cornerwise glance at Joe who was somewhat confused. But he regained his aloofness, shook the lock of hair falling over his forehead into the proper place and found some words. "Why me?" he said with a flushed face. "Oh, brothers out together in the wilds of nature ought to be a good working combination, " Lynn laughed good-humoredly. "Maybe you could find something interesting for me to crow about to Craig, like a dinosaur bone or something." After dinner Lynn insisted on helping with the dishes. "How about Suzey and me?" she asked, reinforcing the offer with a smile at Suzey. But Jerusha had other ideas. "I just remembered," she said, "I need to have Suzey try on her new outfit so I can measure some spots. We have to have her ready for girls' camp next week. Isn't it next week, Suzey?" "Why, yes, Jerusha, but." "Why don't you help Lynn with the dishes, Paul?" she went on, without giving Suzey a chance to finish. "It'll be a good change from farm work." "I guess I still know how to wipe dishes," Paul said with an odd smile at Jerusha. "I haven't done it since you came, Jerusha." He looked from one woman to the other. 'Anybody have an extra apron around here?"' Jerusha was quick to transfer hers. She tied it around his waist and motioned to Suzey. Suzey gave the unusual dishwashers an equally unusual sort of smile and followed Jerusha from the room. Ai the rest of the evening Amy never left Jerusha. She stroked her hand that she clung to, patted her skirt, and pulled her down to whisper bits of things into her ear. And when Jerusha tucked her into bed after an extraordinary version of the Clippety Clackety Clop Man, the little girl reached up and put her hands on the wrinkled face. "Mommy," she said in an awed low voice as though the words might frighten even herself, "I love you, Mommy." Jerusha caught her breath. The child's round face swam in a pool of mist. She felt herself engulfed with a smothering, tingling warmth. Then she stiffened. What had she done! She could not be Amy's mommy! But a great longing squelched the fear.