[Vol57 | May 1970 | Page 363 | Home | Whatever Happened to Singing?, | Olga Milius]
Between their grins and my red face, we parted the best of friends (though I didn't buy anything), but after they left I wondered—whatever happened to singing? When I was young—very young—there was music everywhere. Mother and Father sang around the house, children, and even groups of teenagers sang as they walked down the streets. The men sang or whistled as they rode their bikes to work at the shipyard. I remember how my father and my aunt would get out their mandolins and sing and play by the hour. All the old-fashioned favorites "Just a Song at Twilight," "Juanita," and a sentimental ballad called "The Night Shades Are Falling" that always made me cry. Almost every evening the mandolins came out, and family and friends gathered to sing and chat. Sunday evening after meeting everyone gathered at grandma's, and with an aunt or a cousin at the old pedal organ, we would harmonize happily on hymns and favorite classics. These days singing is an organized sport like baseball or tennis, with carefully arranged choruses, or duets or solos. Spontaneous, unplanned singing has all but disappeared. But I have found that singing is still contagious around small children. And even teenagers, when their minds are on other things (like decorating for an MIA party or riding around between road shows), will join in a catchy song. So, why do we adults look so astonished if we catch someone singing as she hangs out the wash or bakes a pie? I'm for starting a movement to put more music—homemade music—into the home. Now, if I could just find Father's mandolin. LA RL The Happy Secret Ruth C. Lkerman When I gave the neighbor girl the doll clothes I had made for her favorite ''child,"' she said to me primly: ''Thank you, this is just what I have wanted for years and years and years." She had used the right number of years in repetition, for by now she was all of three years old. But she was wise beyond many times her years in the proper way to thank me for the gift. How wonderful it is to be able to give something to somebody, and to learn they have wanted it for ''years and years,"' and are willing to confess this fact to the giver. My little friend and her doll shared with me the happy secret of giving and receiving.