[Vol57 | May 1970 | Page 344 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere Ramona | W. Cannon]
Woman's Sphere ot Ramona W. Cannon Sarah Isabelle Merrill Tanner, wife of President Nathan Eldon Tanner of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, was presented ''The Woman of the Year"' Award at Ricks College, Rexburg, Idaho, in March. John L. Clarke, college president, cited Mrs. Tanner for ''her outstanding life as a wife and mother, and for her service to the Church and to others."' In accepting the honor, Mrs. Tanner spoke of the ''ingredients for the rearing of a successful family as prayer, faith, obedience, and love.'' Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, and President of the National Council of Women, was given Brigham Young University's ''Woman of the Year'' award March 3, 1970, and was cited for her outstanding accomplishments in leadership and her eminence in the work of women throughout the world. She addressed the student body and was presented with a quilt made by members of the campus Relief Societies. Women, after a sixty-year tradition of 'men only,'' are now to be admitted to membership in Sigma Delta Chi, the United States' national journalism society. Mary Ann Efroymson is a member of '"'Law Students in Court,'' a unique group sponsored by five law schools in the Washington, D. C. Area. Seven seniors from each university serve as counsel to defend citizens who cannot afford an attorney. Mary Ann is one of the few women among the thirty-five. A graduate of Wellesley College, she now attends George Washington University Law School. Students and lawyers find this experience of much value. 344 Mrs. Dorothy C. McKenzie, of the English Department of California State College, is a specialist in library science. She says most worthwhile books are ''ageless'' and it is a mistake to do so much classifying of books as for children, for adults, and for all ages in between. An outstanding example is the keen enthusiasm of college students everywhere today for J. R. R. Tolkien's wonder fantasy ''The Hobbit,'' supposedly written for children. Mrs. McKenzie advises mothers to have a book of poetry on a table at all times. She assures us that children will pick it up, read it, and develop a taste for poetry. Mrs. Virginia Knauer, special assistant to President Nixon on consumer affairs, receives from two to three thousand complaints from consumers _ every month and is working hard to have the quality of services and products improved in America. Miss Bene Arnold, from San Francisco, California, ballet mistress for Utah's highly praised Ballet West, teaches classes, ''polishes'' every ballet presented, and restages many works very creatively. She began ballet lessons as a child to help her to overcome glandular tuberculosis, which frequently kept her in hospitals. Now, fortified by this experience, she teaches classes for disabled children, helping them greatly with her patience and understanding. Bess Myerson, television personality and Miss America of 1945, is New York City's Commissioner of Consumer Affairs. She is giving up her broadcasting and promises ''a vigorous Campaign against cheating and defrauding." billowy puffs of my €am, m Storm.