[WomansExponent | Vol29 | 1900 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: DOMESTIC SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. | Author: Unknown]

DOMESTIC SCIENCE DEPARTMENT.
		SUSA YOUNG GATES.
	It is with great pleasure that I greet the
readers of the EXPONENT here in this par-
ticular corner which shall be ours to discuss
some of the problems which interest women
in their homes. We may exchange
recipes and methods, and, too, we shall
consider many of those home topics which
just now are so popular and which engage
so much attention from the scientific and
economic world.
	But, bear with me, dear sister, we shall
not enter too deeply into the grave question
of economics, at least, not at present; but
we shall discuss some practical phases of
home life and home uplifting.
	I am very happy to present to you, as the
first paper in this Dept., one written by the
brilliant President of the N. H. E. A., who
herself is deeply interested in our Western
problems, while she as yet has never been
West of the Mississippi.

[Column 2]
	I commend your earnest attention to the
paper, and bid you good day for a season.
DOMESTIC SERVICE PROBLEM.
	We no longer try to dodge this question
which is perplexing all housekeepers at the
present time, for we would still have the
fact staring us in the face to the consterna- 
tion of all who desire to live in homes, that
there is certainly a movement going on
which some one has designated as “The
passing of the servant girl.” We have all
read columns of stuff on this subject, (some
of it funny and more of it almost tragic), in
our eager and determined desire to discover
a cure for this disease which has gathered
us all in its clutches like an epidemic.
Back of all this seething unrest in the house-
hold world may the cause not be found in
three stupendous facts? Is not one of them
due to the recently opened door in the busi-
ness world which has not only allowed all
women to enter, but has made the path so
easy that many have forced their way in, to
the sacrifice of their own abilities?
	Let us dwell for a moment upon this
peculiar phase of the present situation—the
woman in business and in consequence the
recognized depletion in the ranks of house-
keepers as well as household wage earners.
First, however, let us be perfectly clear on
this subject and not confound the women
who have forced themselves into the busi-
ness world needlessly and unfittingly, with
the business woman who has learned to
make herself so invaluable in whatever
niche of affairs she has secured for herself
by ability and perseverance for which she is
now receiving all due recompense. There
is always a good market for skill and brains
and tact in every department of wage earn-
ing. Therefore, we have to do with the
women who have rushed into business pur-
suits and pre-empted their claims with an
avidity worthy of our Oklahoma settlers, 
and not the reliable, capable, level-headed,
earnest business women which this pro-
gressive nineteenth century has brought
forth.
	If we may believe the signs of the times
as depicted in recent magazine and news-
paper articles, we need hardly trouble our-
selves a great deal about this large army of
incompetents. One writer facetiously claims
a speedy return of the prodigal daughter in-
to the safe but neglected harbor of home
life, which show that in the economic re-
lations of the world of business there is no
room for sentiment. Just as soon as the
supply of efficiency equals the demand, the
incompetents in business pursuits will
be crowded out, and they will then be forced
naturally with regret, to learn the sad decree,
some one has put so tersely, that “women
who are eager for a career must remember
that ignorance and inefficiency in the home
are not good recommendations for the busi-
ness life for which they long.” Nearly all
of the holes in commercial life are square and
we must admit that the average woman is
by education, heritage and environment so
well rounded that she has a natural fitness for
the many-sided phases of home life. Never-
theless we must emphasize the statement, at
the risk of repetition, that the average
woman seeking for a place in the world of
commerce must not be confounded with the
business woman, who perhaps has a family to
support and at least a pardonable desire for a
home to have and to hold. When our
young women show that degree of self-
reliance and capability which this business


[Column 1]
woman must possess in order to keep pace
with the competition which has always an
economic value in the world of affairs, she
will receive the compensation which is due
the skilled and thoroughly reliable employee,
utterly regardless of sex.
	Let us go back a generation or two if
we would gain a clear idea of another reason
for our domestic difficulties. In our great
army of domestic home makers we see a
constant struggle to make both ends meet
around a rapidly increasing surface of re-
sponsibility and expenditure, but this class
of women in our grandmother’s days were
quite content to spend at least a portion of
the time in looking after their own especial
business of household management, but now
the heads of these homes have found so
many interests outside of the home that it
has become necessary to increase the quality
and quantity of those who are to remain
under cover in order to keep the wheels of
all of the domestic industries in motion. We
rejoice, however, that women have these
varied and enlightened interests which have
come to us all in this latter end of a particu-
larly progressive century.
	In connection with this evolution in
household concerns, our public educators
have made it possible for all pupils, without
regard to fitness or ability to become imbned
with the idea that if the avenues of the so
called genteel pursuits for which they are
preparing themselves should be closed to
them, they would almost prefer to become
parasites upon their relatives, friends or
even the State than to bring their unused
hands into service. We are seeing the
effect of this mistaken step in the plethora of
mediocre seekers after positions of short
hours and light labor, and a corresponding
scarcity in the ranks of efficient artisans
with skill and competency which are so
closely related to all human happiness and
well being.
	Another snarl which perhaps seems the
most hopeless of disentanglement is the
rapidly increasing number of mills and
factories which furnish a great outlet for
purely mechanical labor. Women and
young girls have, in Europe as well as this
country, rushed into this easiest of all in-
dustries. The automaton-like methods
which are so quickly learned and more
easily repeated day after day, and the cor-
responding emoluments of such labor and
definite hours of release from supervision,
have been the means more than anything
else of depriving the household of its old
time servitors. When we realize that this
kind of employment gives to the employees
all that they most desire—their holidays,
their Sundays and their evenings, and the
unquestioned freedom of action so much
sought for by our liberty loving people,
we can readily understand why the majority
of housekeepers of today are in such
domestic turmoil.
	We may suggest numerous remedies for
this deploroble situation; perhaps the most
enticing is co-operative housekeeping which
always shows up so well on paper, but we
fear it will take generations of persistent

[Column 2]
educators to entirely extinguish the idiosyn-
cracies of the individual family.
	Even in these progressive projects there
must be rules and regulations and corps of
expert, qualified artisans, if there is to be the
harmonious system which its progenitors
promise in lieu of the independence of the
separate home life. While we are waiting
for these model “Homes” we must still
struggle with individual households and we
are forced to admit that no enterprising
combination of co-workers, or even sug-
gestions of any system of rules and regula-
tions will ever accomplish anything until
all women who are to enter into the business
of housekeeping, either as brain workers or
hand workers, have become thoroughly
educated in this most essential of all that
goes to make the home a perfect abiding
place.
	Therefore let us plead for this education
for our classes as well as our masses; then
we may safely follow with suggestions and
wise regulations of the laws which should
govern the management of households. We
should not lose sight of the pertinent fact
that for these laws to be successful, we must
grant a just estimation of the skill and
capability of experienced and educated
employees and demand thorough business
ability on the part of the employers. This
means that we must find ways and means to
enable us to sift out of the army of domestic
workers the shiftless, the incompetent and
the utterly hopeless cases and give just
treatment, leisure hours and good wages to
those who survive this ordeal. But no
housekeeper can do this unless she under-
stands her business, and then not without
co operation with all others of her kind.
	But, my sisters, let us strive to keep ever
before us in this great work of ours, that
Golden Rule which means forbearance to-
wards every dweller under the household
roof and which presupposes a wise tolerance
and appreciation for the individuality of the
workers as well as the idlers who
live therein.
			LINDA HULL LARNED.


