[WomansExponent | Vol29 | 1900 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: HER MOTHER'S CHRISTMAS GIFT. | Author: Unknown]

HER MOTHER'S CHRISTMAS GIFT. 
The room was bright with two electric
giobes, and at one end an open stove gave
out more light, warmth and cheer. The
furniture was not elegant, rather to the con-
trary, it was simple and inexpensive; but
the painted floor was covered with a large
rug evidently an old Smyrna with its bril-
liantly shaded colors; the chairs were rockers
and a low, easy couch rested between two
windows, piled with soft, downy cushions.
There were curtains, simple dotted lace
ones, and a low bookcase on two sides of
the room. Two pictures, art copies of
Turner, gave an air of exquisite refinement
to the simple room.
The lady who sat reading before the fire
was fitted to her surroundings; or rather,
her surroundings seemed a fitting frame for
the delicate, high-bred beauty which, now,
more than ever, surrounded her like a halo.
She was small and slender, with thin,
nervous hands on which sparkled several
rings; a face whose every line bespoke char-
acter and nobility, from the broad, low
brow, to the firm, yet delicate chin. The
gray hair waved away from the brow was
dressed carelessly yet artistically, low in the
neck. Her silken robe was neglige
in its cut, and fell away from the tiny
slippered feet.
The door of the room was opened quickly,
but quietly, and a sweet voice asked, “May
come in, auntie ?”
“Certainly you may, my dear. Close the
door on Jack Frost and draw up your stool
and come here by the fire.”
The young girl who entered was lovely
with youth, vivacity and all the details of
comeliness. Her bright blue eyes and pink
cheeks were not coarsely pretty, but the
coloring was as delicate as the petals of a
tea rose and the blue of the heavens be-
tween the stars.
She drew her ottoman close by the elder
lady’s chair, and after a moments silence she
said, wistfully:
“Auntie, I am very unhappy about my
mamma.”
“Why, Bessie, what’s the matter with the
lady mother ? Has she been taken suddenly
ill, or is she fretting over gifts for the
coming holidays, or what is the trouble?”
“There is nothing of that kind, auntie,
mamma is just the same as usual and
everything is all right at home. It is dnly
I—that is—well, I’ll, tell you, auntie,
all about it.”
“That’s a good girl; I knew there was
something on your mind lately, Pussy, and 
I have been waiting very patiently for you
to tell me what it was.”
“That’s just it, auntie, I don’t want to
tell you; that is, I have resolved--and re-
solved—not to tell you-but to tell
mamma—and, oh—I can’t!”
The last broken words brought a little
gush of tears and the girl leaned her head
on the friendly knee beside her and wept
silently, while the slender hands stroked the
pale gold hair and the soft voice comforted
and soothed the troubled girl.
“Dear me, Bessie, this looks almost seri-
ous. I am about to be alarmed. What
has happened between my pet and her dear
mother ? Come, dry thy bright eyes and
stop the little quiver in thy voice, and tell
me all about it from first to last.”
“Oh, auntie, its so easy to tell you things
and its so hard to tell my own mother, and
that’s the very whole of the trouble.”
The elder lady took the young face be-
tween her hands and looked a moment into
the deep blue eyes.
“Now, wait a moment, Bess, I hardly
understand. You must explain a little.”
“The girl put her own hands on the
slender ones pressed on her cheeks, and said:
“Dear auntie, I have been troubled for so
long because I feel that my own mother and
are not so near and dear as we ought to
be, as you and I are!”
“Oh!” softly said the elder lady, releas-
ing the girl from her clasp.
Bessie settled herself so that she could
look into the fire, and drawing the arm of
her companion about her neck, she went on,
sure of the loving interest of her listener.
“You see, auntie, I am not naturally very
talkative; I think I am very reserved. And
mamma is like that, too. Perhaps I should
never tell any one my secrets, if you had not
won my love and confidence years ago. I
can’t tell why it is, (but the patient listener
knew why) that I can come to you and open
my whole heart to you. I haven’t thought
much about these things till I have read
and heard so much lately in our meetings
about girls confiding in their mothers. I
can fancy what a lovely thing it would be
for mother and me to be like you and I are,
but I don’t know how to do it. Mamma
loves me, of course I know that, and we
can talk about our new clothes and going
to the theatre and our shopping, and all
that; but when I have tried once or twice
lately to speak to her about other things—
well—about my beaus, you know, or things
like that—I can’t get past the first word,
and mamma never helps me a bit; she just
acts more embarrassed and colder than I do.
Now its so different with you, and I can’t
tell why!”
The elder woman felt the tears filling her
eyes, and there was a suspicious ache in her
throat, but she said quietly:
“Yes, Bessie, I can understand all you
say. I have often told you to confide in
your mother."
“I know you have, auntie,” answered
the girl, eagerly, “and I am anxious to do
it; but cau one help one’s temperament?
And both mamma’s and mine are against it.
I am sure I don’t know what to do.” 
“Bessie dear, in my girlhood days I was
a quiet, reserved and silent child; I spent the
whole time at books and music. I had little
human companionship, for my own mother
was a reserved and quiet woman. I never
remember of sitting on her lap, or of any
caress, but a very occasional kiss, in my
life. I was full of romance and strong im-
pulse, and my circumstances and disposition
led my maiden feet to the brink of many
a precipice but I never lost my footing,
thank God for that!”
The girl reached up her hand and drew
the other hands down to her lips while she
kissed them over and over.
“I learned many lessons through my
own sufferings and trials. And chiefest of
all has been the fact that all humankind
longs and seeks for sympathy and com-
panionship. He who supplies that need to
the starving heart is the one who gains
uppermost influence and power over that
heart. And so I have studied how to win
the love and confidence of all creatures,
especially the young. And, Bessie, of all
my dear young friends, you come nearest to
being like my own child.”


[Column 1]
	Bessie stroked the slender hands about
her neck, and pressed them to her glowing
cheeks.
	“I have had no children, dear, you know
that; but you will never know what that
fact means to a woman’s desolate heart yet
the sweet love of Christ and the dear reli-
gion we both love so well has filled the ach-
ing void, and God has answered my prayer
in some measure and given me the love and
tender confidence of my young friends.
Now, dear, I am deeply touched by your
distress about your mother. I can see how
it has all come about; but for her sake, for
your own, and that you may not be yourself
such a mother to your children, you must
break the wall of reserve and find entrance
uto your mother’s heart of hearts, while
you open the deepest recesses of yours to
her.”
	“You always understand, auntie, and know
just what to say, don’t you?”
	The tender, aged lips trembled with
emotion, and the lady sighed as she said:
	“If so, God teaches me, dear.”
	The two sat silent a long while, and the
coals dropped down in the open grate, and
grew gray in their ashen covering.
	At last the lady said:
	“Bessie, what are you going to give
your mother for a Christmas gift?”
	“I don’t know, auntie; I had not thought
much about it. I dare say I shall buy her
something, for I am in school, you know,
and can’t do fancy work. Anyway, I hate
fancywork. I would rather make a whole
dress than to work a Batteuburg handker-
chief.”
	“Well, dear, there are so many good and
profitable things to do, tnat no one need
spend their time in distasteful employment.
I have a little suggestion which might be
made into a gift for the dear mother, and at
the same time accomplish the dearest wish
of your heart.”
	“What is it, auntie? I am all expectancy
You always have such delightful sugges-
tions.”
	The two sat talking and discussing for an
hour, and then Bess sprang up with shining
eyes and a happy smile on her lips as she
said:
	“All right, auntie, I think I can get it
done nicely by working in all my spare
hours. Goodby, you dear, sweet, precious
auntie, I shall never forget you for this.”
	And as the girl closed the door the lady
arose and watched the graceful form flit
down between the rows of lilacs and rose
trees, and out at the gate into the snowy
road beyond.
	“I cannot be selfish and keep her love all
to myself; it belongs to her mother, for God
so ordained it. Ah, thank Him, that
love is of Himself a part, in giving we are
not impoverished, and in taking away we
are not deprived!”
			*	*	*
	The Christmas morning was early filled
with merry shouts of laughter and gay ex-
changes of gift and greeting in Bessie’s
home.
	As Bessie’s mother looked at the many
and elaborate presents spread out on the
table for her, she gazed with pleased eyes at
a small box delicately tied with blue ribbon
and marked,
		From Bessie to Mother.
	The mother opened all the rest first, and
finally as she reached for Bessie’s parcel,
the girl herself could not bear it, and she

[Column 2]
flew out of the room on some trivial excuse.
	But the mother was so pleasantly engaged
in discovering all her gift treasures that she
did not notice the exit of her daughter.
	As she opened the pretty box, she saw
within a very simple, dainty daily calendar,
a sheet for each of the three hundred and
sixty-five days, fastened to a small, wooden
frame, each one pasted at the top, as on a
tab. On the top sheet was inscribed, in
bold letters, Jan. 1st, 1900, and beneath it
was written, in Bessie’s own beautiful pen-
manship:
Dearest Mother:
	I have written out the very innermost thoughts of
my heart on these leaves which you will tear off
day by day. And that they will reach to the depths,
of your own pure, loving soul is the hope of your
							BESSIE.
	The mother drew away the box from the
curious eyes of her little son, who stood by
her, and who asked curiously, “What are
oo tying about, mama?”
	But she gave him a kiss for reply, and
closed up her precious gift, as if it were too
sacred for the eyes of any one save herself.
	She turned aside in a window recess and
opening again her box,’ she lifted up the
second leaf, and--under the date she read:
	Mother dear, I have your love and you have
mine! but I want your confidence, and I want to
give you mine.
							BESSIE.
On another leaf she read:
	How I have longed to sit at your feet and have
you stroke my hair while I tell you all my secrets,
but I don’t know how to begin. Won’t you help
me?
	She had read enough to know that her
young daughter had given her the most
precious gift ever given by child to parent—
the gift of her heart’s confidence! And she
put the box up to her lips and kissed it
again and again. Oh, it was what she,
too, had been longing for these many years.
And she knew not how to gain it!
	As Bessie came into the room, the mother
held out her arms and the girl ran into that
loving embrace, while their silent tears
mingled as they kissed each other fondly.
	“Oo make mama ty, Bessie,” said the
baby-boy. “Tome away.”
	But the mother picked him up and kissed
him fervently, while she whispered to
Bessie, “You have made me so happy,
Bessie. So happy!”
	And the little brother asked wonderingly,
“Did she dive oo a Christmas dift, mama?
What was it, mama?”
	And the mother stroked the girl’s sunny
hair almost for the first time in her life, as
she replied:
	“Why, baby dear, Bessie has given me
her heart for my Christmas present.”
	In the twilight of that evening two ladies
came up the path bordered by lilacs and
rosetrees, and as they were ushered into the
dainty sitting room where sat the elderly
lady, a soft, mellow voice, now full of happy
tears, cried out,
	“Oh, auntie! mamma and I have both
come tonight to talk it all over with you,
you dear, sweet auntie. And mamma says
you are not to lose me, auntie, but you are
to take us both into your heart and let us
both be your dear confidents.”
	There were no more words for a little
season as the grey-haired lady arose and
clasped the hands offered to her and put up
her own trembling lips for a kiss from each.
	Then she drew up two low ottomans and

[Column 3]
the others sat down at her feet, and while
the delicate aged hands caressed the dark
hair and the golden, Bessie said softly:
	“Isn’t this a heavenly Christmas?”
	And the hostess replied reverently:
	“Aye, for it is sanctified by Love
Divine!”
