[WomansExponent | Vol29 | 1900 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: R. S. Reports | Author: Unknown]

R. S. REPORTS.
GRANITE STAKE.
	Afternoon session commenced at 2 o’clock
p. m., Counselor Mary P. Young presiding.
Singing, “Now let us rejoice.” Prayer by
Counselor Jenson, Mill Creek Bishopric.
Singing, “Guide us, O Thou Great Jeho-
vah.”
	At this meeting Sister Wheeler, president
of the Stake Primary, her counselors and
Counselor Jenson, of Mill Creek, were also
on the stand.
	Counselor Mary P. Young introduced
Sister Alma Ash as having just returned
from England and wished her to make a
few remarks.
	Sister Ash: “I have been on a visit to my
friends. I was the only one of my family
that had joined the Church. My parents
thought it a disgrace to be a Mormon.
Since then all my mother’s family have
joined this Church.” She spoke of the in-
fluence so different out in the world to that
we have at home among the Saints. She
visited the Sunday School and many of the
Saints while there. Met Sister Wood-
ruff’s daughter and son-in-law and had a
pleasant visit with them.
	President Yates, of Millard Stake said:
“The few minutes I stand before you I
want your faith and prayers, as I wish to
be guided in the right direction. I feel
very thankful that the Lord inspired the
Prophet Joseph to organize the Relief
Society.” Encouraged the young mothers
to train their children in the faith of the
Gospel, it depended on the mothers to first
begin with themselves and then with their
children. Apostle Lyman gave us a mis-
sion, for the presidents of the Relief Society
to send and get all the young women and
young mothers to become members, and
labor with the non-tithing payers and teach
the children tithing. She spoke of the care-
lessness of mothers in not trying to set a
proper example, and the great influence it
had upon their children.
	Singing by the choir conducted by Brother
Hill, “Kind words are sweet tones of the
heart.”
	Sister Armeda S. Young spoke of the
necessity of our gaining the confidence of
our children while they are young and
teaching our girls the value of virtue, and
the influence they can wield over the young

[Column 2]
men for good by persuading them to shun
all evil habits.
	Counselor Katharine H. Brockbank
wished to learn and train her heart in the
truths of the Gospel. “We miss Sister
Woodruff very much.” Spoke of her 
mother, Sister Howard, and the desire she
had to emulate her example.
	Counselor Mary P. Young said some of
the remarks of Sister Armeda Young had
brought reflections to her mind that she	
wished to mention. “We have great re-
sponsibilities as mothers. A remark of
President Brigham Young’s was brought
forcibly to my mind, ‘Mothers, if your chil-
dren go astray the Lord will hold you re-
sponsible.’ This has weighed upon my
mind for a long time. Sisters, are we
doing our duty ? Do we do the little
things? Encourage our children? Get
them ready for their Sunday School and 
Primary meetings? This is our duty.”
She spoke of the good instructions given in
the General Conference of the Relief Society.
“One more item comes to my mind—that
of punctuality and obedience, as Brother
Horne spoke of in the days of Noah.” She
then excused President Emma Woodruff to
the conference
	Sister Maria B. Winder: “I feel it an
honor to belong to the Relief Society sisters.
I think they are the best people in the
world.” Spoke of the life of the Prophet
Joseph Smith and the great good he had
done.
	A solo was rendered, with much sweet-
ness and skill, by Miss Crismon.
	Sister Wheeler, President of the Primary
of the Stake, spoke of the responsibility she
felt in her position along with the Relief
Society and the interest parents should take
in their children. “It seems to me that all
the women’s organizations come under the
Relief Society, they are helps to that organ-
zation.” Felt as Sister Young had remarked-
that the responsibility of our children rested
upon the mothers. Announced the Primary
conference to be held in this place the fol-
lowing day. Wished the mothers to attend
and see what their children were being
taught.
	Sister Zina Cannon, president of the Y.
L. M. I. Association of the Stake, spoke of
the relation of the Relief Society M. I. and
Primary to each other. Had once been a
teacher in the Relief Society. Felt that the
young ladies left too much of the hard work
to the older sisters. Thought that the
mothers should know where their daughters
were at nights and not allow them to go
with bad, rough young men, but they
should be home at night; and the young
ladies should not countenance that which is
wrong in young men. Spoke of the inno-
cence of our young girls, and the danger
they were in by going with bad boys. Re-
ferred to her young girlhood days. Hoped
that we would all work unitedly together.
	The president of South Taylorsville re-
ported her ward.
	Brother Thomas Alston said: “One thing
about the meeting I have regretted all day
is that some of the secretaries have failed in
sending in reports. There is a maxim,
that says, ‘Whatever is worth doing is
worth doing well.’ If you have not made
out your reports you have not done your work
well. It is a fact that we are too careless
in these matters. Referred to Holy Writ.
Spoke of our being on hand to do all our
duties on time. It is not those who say
Lord, Lord, but those who will do the
works will gain the reward.


[Column 1]
	Bishop Hamilton, of Mill Creek: “I re-
member a few years ago on my way to Re-
lief Society I met a brother who had just
come out of the penitentiary. I invited
him to come with me. In his remarks he
said, ‘My dear sisters, I love every one of
you.’ I might say the same. I see my
dear mother and a great many good women
here. I have made quite an effort to get
here, but I have been working in the ser-
vice of the Lord. He said we should take
an interest in all the organizations. My
dear sisters, may God bless you and may
we become more acquainted with each
other and with the principles of our re-
ligion.”
	Counselor Mary P. Young: “It has been
moved and seconded that we return a vote of
thanks to the good sisters who have pre-
pared and furnished us with refreshments.
	Singing, “Hail to the Prophet.” Benedic-
tion by Counselor Mary B. Hamilton.
			ARMEDA S. YOUNG, Sec.
		MALAD STAKE.
	The Malad Stake Relief Society held its
quarterly conference at Fielding on Sunday,
August 12, with Stake President Lucinda
Hoskins presiding. On the stand, of the
General Board, were President Jane S.
Richards, Stake President Lucinda Hoskins
and counselors, Secretary Eliza A. Hall and
a good representation of the presidents of
the different branches.
	Meeting opened by the choir singing
“Come, thou glorious day of promise.”
Prayer was offered by President O. C.
Hoskins. Continued by singing “Come
ye that love the Lord.” The minutes of
the previous conference were read and ac-
cepted.
	President Lucinda Hoskins felt happy to
see so many of the sisters in conference;
called for reports from the different branches.
	President Annie Sawyer reported Malad
city; President Jane A. Harris, Portage;
President Eliza A. Ward, Washakie;
President Hannah Griffiths, Samaria;
Counselor Sarah Rudd, Plymouth. All
were in excellent condition, a good spirit
prevailing in each branch reported.
	President Jane S. Richards said, “We do
not desire to speak only as we are dictated
by the Spirit of the Lord. The Relief
Society was organized for the purpose of
taking care of the sick and of those that
cannot take care of themselves. We think
and worry too much over our work and do
not pay enough attention to our spiritual
affairs.” She had never missed anything
by attending her meetings. “We should
divide our means with those less fortunate
than ourselves. It would be well for the
presidents to hold meetings at the home of
some of the sisters that never attend meet-
ings. It has been done and with the very
best results.” She admonished the teachers
to visit all the sisters in each ward and try
to get them to attend their meetings in the
Relief Society, and would gain rich bless-
ings thereby.
	Bishop Henry Hess, of Fielding, esteemed
it a glorious privilege to meet in the Stake

[Column 2]
Conference. “There is a great glory in
store for those sisters who will live humble
and take the advice of those dear sisters that
are over us.
	Myron Richards, Bishop of Riverside, al-
ways enjoyed the instruction given in the
Relief Society conference by these dear sis-
ters who are laboring so diligently for the
upbuilding of the kingdom of our Father in
heaven.
	President Lucinda Hoskins adjourned
the conference until 2 p. m. Meeting
closed by singing “Should you feel inclined
to censure.” Benediction by Stake Counse-
lor Wm. H. Gibbs.
	Afternoon session opened by the choir
singing “High on the mountain tops.”
Prayer was offered by Elder E. Wilcox.
Continued by singing “Again we meet
around the board. ” The sacrament was
then adminisiered by the brethren. Minutes
of the last afternoon conference read and
approved.
	On motion of Christina McCrary, seconded
by Lucinda Hoskins, Jannette Parkinson
was sustained treasurer of the Malad Stake
Relief Society.
	President Alice A. Smith reported the
Fielding Ward; President Lucy Mason, St.
John; President Julia Richards, Riverside;
all in good running order, the sisters alive
to their duties.
	Stake Counselor Christina McCrary and
Secretary Eliza A. Hall then spoke a short
time.
	Sister West, of Ogden, felt thankful she
had a name and standing in the Church and
kingdom of God. Spoke of the healing
ordinances and many other subjects.
	President Jane S. Richards spoke at some
length on the benefit the young ladies
would derive by joining the Relief Society.
We should be willing to make many sacri-
fices in order to keep our children in the
Church. Asked the presidents of associa-
tions to visit the different branches and be-
come acquainted with each other. Asked
God to bless and unite us all together, that
we may be saved in the kingdom of God.
Stated that President Zina D. H. Young
sent her love to all the sisters in Malad
Stake of Zion and would have loved to have
been in our conference.
	President O. C. Hoskins made excellent
remarks, bearing testimony to the instruc-
tions that had been given in our meetings.
The choir sang “Lord, Thou wilt hear us
when we pray.” Benediction was pro-
nounced by Elder Frank Walker.
