[WomansExponent | Vol29 | 1900 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: REPORT OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL. | Author: invitation of the Local Council of that]

   REPORT OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL.
    The National Council of Women of the
United States held its annual business ses-
sion in Minneapolis Minnesota, this year,
by invitation of the Local Council of that
city. These meetings were set for Novem-
ber 13, 14, and 15, 1900, but from the
multiplicity of business to be transacted, it
was not possible to close the executive
meetings until Friday, November 16, at
one p. m., and even then some matters
were left over to be finished by the
General officers.
    These were indeed most interesting
meetings of this great Council, and the
Minneapolis ladies proved their generous
hospitality and welcome, as well as sym-
pathy with the cause of woman’s work in
many ways, that gave the Council good
and lasting impressions of their warm-
heartedness and nobility; also of the Mayor
and citizens of that enterprising and rapidly
growing city of the far-famed Minnehaha.
    We regret that the weather was so in-
clement when the meetings closed that we
could not venture out to see those beautiful
falls mentioned by one of our greatest
American poets in the favorite poem
“Hiawatha.”
    On Monday, November 12, a luncheon
was given by the ladies of the Relief Corps
of that Post at half past one, at the Nicolet
Hotel, in honor of their General-President,
Mrs. Mary L. Carr, of Denver, and the
officers of the Council. Only a few ladies
had yet arrived, but we who had come in
early were royally welcomed. The parlors
were gaily decorated and the banquet pre-
pared was on a magnificent scale. Hand-

[Column 2]
some menu cards and a beautiful rose were
provided for each guest, and the tables ar-
ranged in the form of the letter T were set
for fifty persons. Mrs. Morrison, chaplain
of the St Paul Lodge, pronounced the blessing
and the most social geniality prevailed
among the guests. The president of the
Minnesota Post gave a tribute of welcome
to her superior officer, the General-Presi-
dent, Mrs. Carr, to which the lady replied
in fitting words of goodfellowship and love
for the cause for which they unitedly stood.
One or two others of the local Relief Corps
spoke, and officers of the Council, including
the writer, complied briefly with the polite
request. Mrs. Higbee and the other Past
presidents of the Local Council of Minne-
apolis each added a few choice words of
greeting and welcome, making the affair “a
feast of reason and a flow of soul.”
    The same evening a reception was given
by these ladies in the parlors of the Nicolet
Hotel, quite a number of gentlemen also
being present, Grand Army men and other
citizens mingling in the brilliant affair.
Many handsome costumes were worn and
decorations of the order and flags and ban-
ners were quite conspicuous. Patriotic
musical selections by the band; and fruit
punch was served by young girls in soft,
dainty silk and organdy dresses of the most
approved styles, with ribbons and laces to
match. It was a festive occasion and one
full of pleasant memories of the grand
women who are interested in the home and
the state of Minnesota, and the welfare of
the world. Such women are growing in
numbers throughout this great and free
Republic. Mrs. McCune arrived in time
for the evening reception, she having to
travel from Omaha on another route from
the writer.
    On Tuesday from four to six, another
reception was tendered by Mrs. Walker, of
Minneapolis, and other local ladies, to the
Council, at the handsome residence of Mrs.
Walker, who is famous for her philanthropic
work and for her personal help in the way
of culture to the public. Every day, we
were informed, her gallery of choice paint-
ings is thrown open so that the students
and people desiring to avail themselves of
this privilege of cultivating the eye and
heart by gazing upon the workmanship of
great artists, have a wonderful advantage
in this private collection, many of them
gems of great value.
    Here, too, the ladies were entertained
uniquely by a band of girl musicians, who
discoursed sweet strains of music during
the entire time, and the music room and
dining room were beautifully decorated
with a variety of lovely flowers, daintily
scattered about here and there. Tea, coffee
and cocoa, with wafers, candies and cake,
were served to all guests who could leave
the picture gallery long enough to partake
of the dainty refreshments. At the table
we had the pleasure of meeting Mrs. Has-
kell, whose father and husband are news-
paper people of the Boston Herald and
Minneapolis Tribune; Mrs. Holman,
daughter of the hostess, and widow of the
Reverend Dr. Holman, who took a tour
through Utah for his health a few years
ago. Mrs. Holman speaks with much
feeling of the kindness received from our
people in the south, and we very much en-
joyed a few minutes conversation with one
who had sojourned for a time among our
people and knew something of their cor-
diality to strangers. She mentioned


[Column 1]
especially the Woolleys of Kanab, Can-
nons and Brooks of St. George.
	The Local Council of Minneapolis also
gave a reception to the officers, delegates
and members of the National Council on
Thursday afternoon at half past three, in
the parlors of the West Hotel, the Coun-
cil’s headquarters. Mrs. Higbee, the
president of the Council, was hostess. Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, the president
of the International Council, was
present at this reception, but was obliged
to leave early for home. She, as well as
Mrs. Fannie Humphreys Gaffney, always
shine in brilliant assemblies of this kind.
Both have great charms and dress with ex-
cellent taste. The writer imagines that one
would know at a glance that Mrs. Gaffney
lived in the City of New York, both by her
dress and manners. Dr. Kate Waller
Barrett, although always in the black garb
of her calling, is a woman of the South, one
must know it by her Southern polish and
attraction. She carries the unmistakable
stamp both in manner and speech. Bril-
liant, witty and emotional and a wonderful
speaker. Rev. Annie Garlin Spencer is
another type with all the collegiate graces of
manner and correctness of language. Her
gray costume might make one suspect her
a Quaker, and she comes from Providence,
Rhodelsland; but instead of Puritianism she
holds most broad and liberal views on
religious questions and all others. Then
we have Mrs.Solomon, a pronounced Jewish
type, but with the grand and lofty aspira-
tions of the tribe of Judah concerning her
people, interested in all that makes for their
advancement, but especially in religion and
the Bible, a woman of strong character.
	Though, as our readers know, we are not
given to describing costumes, yet while
mentioning others Mrs. McCune, of our
own city, might with all due propriety be
spoken of, because she wore an elegant Paris
gown of black lace which suited her style
remarkably well, and was sufficiently con-
spicuous for the writer to observe, even
among so many elegant dresses.
	Mrs. Peck, the Vice-President, was not
able to be present, but there were presidents
and delegates from many of the National
organizations belonging to the Council,
some of whom we knew well and others we
had not known heretofore. Mrs. Mary
Newbury Adams, of Iowa; Mrs. I. C.
Manchester, of Rhode Island; Mrs. [-]iske,
of Minneapolis; Mrs. Lillian E. Hollister,
of Michigan; Mrs. Emma R. Wallace, of
Chicago, and Mrs. Flo Jameson Miller, of
llinois. Miss Bower, of Detroit, and Mrs.
Terrell of Washington, D. C., were women
we had known previously,some of them for
many years. The new acquaintances we
met more familiarly were Mrs. Olds, of
Elyria, Ohio; Mrs. Woods, Quincy, Ill.;
Mrs. Glazier, of Ft. Madison, Iowa; Mrs.
Burns, of Michigan; Miss Mannering, of
Chicago; Mrs. Parry, who gave us a copy of
her poems, and Dr. Cora Smith Eaton, of
Minneapolis, a schoolfellow and fellow-
graduate of Miss Babcock’s, who was de-
lighted to see us because we knew her at
home in Salt Lake, and sent loving mes-
sages to her by us.
	There is not space to tell all the good
things about the women of the Council, but
we must mention one or two facts. First,
that Mrs. Gaffney is a fine presiding officer,
just and courteous to all, with unfailing
patience and always punctual and knows
how to economize time. Her opening ad-

[Column 2]
dress was a masterpiece and a great credit
to the Council, as was the welcome extended
by Mrs. Leach and Mrs. Tuttle, of Min-
neapolis, and also that of Mayor James
Gray of that city. The Mayor dwelt
much npon women influencing public senti-
ment and their work in education, and on
the school boards, etc. Certainly one of the
ablest speeches made during any of the open
meetings, was on Tuesday evening, by
Professor Maria Sanford, of the University
of Minnesota. She elaborated upon the
larger life with broader purposes, if men
and women would work together upon
practical matters in the home, the city, the
state, the country and the world. Gave
practical illustrations of what cnildren had
been induced to do in cleaning and beautify-
ing that city, etc, when sufficiently aroused
by means of prizes offered and such like in-
ducements.
	At the gathering extended by the Local
Council, as at all the others, we met many
beautiful women, one cannot even remem-
ber the names, but it was an exchange of
greetings between women of a great variety
of faiths and from all points of the compass.
Music of the choicest kind; and flags and
flowers in available places gladdened the eye
and enlivened the scene. In a gathering of
this sort one notes the many highly intel-
lectual faces that make the ocoasion more
attractive than aught else. Unexpectedly
one meets with kindred spirits, and here
we met one of the Wells family of Wethers-
field and Hartford, also one of the Whitneys
of New England.
	Very little time can be given to social
gatherings when the Council meets for
morning, afternoon and evening sessions.
There are meetings to be attended and work
to be accomplished as well as speeches and
reports to be listened to, if one keeps in
touch with the spirit of the Council. News-
paper women seemed to enter most heartily
into the real merits of the Council, and to
comprehend its highest ideals.
	The objects of the Council have been
furthered at this meeting and we may look
forward to hopeful suggestions from these
able women. A telegram received from
Miss Anthony said: “I send greetings to
my daughters of the most comprehensive
organization of women, and the one in
which I have the greatest hope.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
