7 Inez Knight Allen By Alice Louise Reynolds INEZ KNIGHT ALLEN, distinguished daughter of distinguished parents, has gone to her reward—the reward of the just in Christ Jesus our Lord. Her deft hand and full heart touched many phases of community life, and all for good. She wove into the pattern of her life beauty and ideality, and as the pattern unfolded it revealed a woman of skill in many things—a woman of tact in all things —a woman who was a pioneer in three lines of service. INEZ was born in Payson, September 8, 1876. Her parents were Jesse and Amanda McEwan Knight. She loved and honored them throughout her life. Her deep affection for them was reciprocated by their deep affection for her. It is to be hoped that she has talked over her father's life and character with some one who will in the future be his biographer, else there will be great loss; for no one understood "Uncle Jesse" better than did his daughter Inez. Mrs. Allen received her early schooling in Payson, but so deeply imbued was her father with the spirit of Dr. Karl G. Maeser that he moved to Provo in 1898 that his children might have the advantage of attending Brigham Young Academy. THEN came her mission, which will always be historic; for she and Mrs. Jennie Brimhall Knight were the first women to be called on missions in the same manner as most women are called on missions today, and not in connection with their husbands. ON HER return she acted in the capacity of dean of women at Brigham Young Academy, although it was not known by that name at that time. At the same time she served as secretary to her father whose volume of business was daily increasing. SHE has been an interested and ardent Church worker throughout her life. She began in the Sunday School as a teacher, but was soon taken on to the stake board of the Relief Society where she served as secretary and afterward as counselor to Martha A. F. Keeler, wife of Joseph B. Keeler. In 1918, on Sister Keeler's retirement, she became Stake President which office she held until 1924. She was the first President to employ a trained social worker, and was the leading spirit in the organization of the Community Welfare office still functioning in Utah County. Her administration was of a very high order and unusually efficient. It was characterized by a number of innovations, by intelligence and vision. DURING the war she served as chairman of the Utah County Council of Defense and Liberty Loan Committee. She was Vice-Chairman of the Utah County Red Cross, and in recent years has served on the Utah County Relief Committee. SHE WAS active in politics. She was the only woman in Utah County ever placed on a ticket for the state senate. She believed that woman should take a part in bettering government whether national or local. Some of us recall the picture of William Jennings Bryan, standing on her mother's porch, urging those who came within the range of his voice to support her for the Senate. They also remember that when he was through, President Heber J. Grant told the throng gathered that were he a resident of Utah County, irrespective of party affiliation, he would support Mrs. Allen. She never went to the legislature, but she did make it possible for others to go and rejoiced at their success; for she lived to see women from both major political parties serve the legislature from Utah County. She served her party nationally as a presidential elector. She was a delegate to the National Convention held in New York in 1924, and served the state as National Committee woman four years. It was in this capacity that she attended the National Convention at Houston, Texas, in 1928, and at this time her public work became sufficiently significant to give her a place in "Who's Who." On June 11, 1902, she was married to Robert Eugene Allen. Mrs. Allen was as outstanding in her domestic life as she was in her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE public work. She with her husband builded a home from whence five stalwart sons have gone forth, equipped to serve the modern world. Four of those five young men have done service in the mission field. She used to say that her daughters were her sons' wives. Like her sons they are a group of useful and cultivated young women, who will miss her greatly as will her two grandchildren. On Friday, preceding her demise, which occurred on Saturday, June 5, she was at a luncheon, where about twenty-two of her friends were gathered. She talked of her grandchildren, of their proud fathers and fond mothers, and the last word from her lips that fell upon my ears concerned her son Robert and wife who are in Paris, France. The Allen home was a home of interest and happiness. Often it has been my privilege to dine with the family. Such times were always occasions for me, as I listened to Brother and Sister Allen and their sons and daughters converse together. Sometimes it was serious conversation, at other times it was full of humor, talk that caused a lot of merriment and fun; it was table talk of a very high order. I HAVE stated earlier in this article that she pioneered in three fields. These fields were missionary work, social work, and the cause of women in social and political life. THE crowning work for her Church has been in the Relief Society. So diligently did she seek for knowledge in this field that she became a social worker of repute, sought for on county boards and on state committees. By every instinct of her being she was eminently fitted for this work. Born of parents of large sympathy, the driving power of her soul was sympathy. She had INEZ KNIGHT ALLEN 'such great understanding' say many who knew her. 'She could go to the most rural community and put at ease the timid,' say others, 'bringing peace where there had been distress.' Always she saw what was lovely in a situation, and drew one's attention from the unlovely to the lovely. She was a sort of alchemist turning base metal into gold in a spiritual sense. Her success as Stake President of the Relief Society was in all probability due much more to the sympathy she aroused for those less fortunate in life than from any technique she made use of, although she sought and used the most progressive methods in her work. IT WAS the intellectual acumen blended with fine feeling and deep concern for others that was basic in her success both as an administrator and as a public speaker. She was effective as a speaker, but when she spoke she always warmed hearts and almost as often drew tears from the eyes of her listeners. MRS. ALLEN was connected with various circles of women: The Brigham Young University 405 Women, the Nelke Reading Club, The Yeasharah Club, which is an organization of lady missionaries, and the Alice Louise Reynolds Club, which she was prominent in bringing into being in 1932. She was four years the Chairman of the Central Committee; she was also a member of Chapter Two, of the Club known as the Alice Louise Reynolds Friendly Circle, all of Provo, and for some time she has been a member of the Friendship Circle of Salt Lake City. INEZ KNIGHT ALLEN, highly respected, deeply beloved, leaves behind a place that others cannot fill. As she moved about in the various circles with which she has been connected, her face glowed with the love her soul radiated, and the memory of her soul's glow will be a part of the wealth of all who ever knew her as long as there are those remaining who felt her handclasp and who knew her smile. Some there are who create art, others there are who make of their lives a work of art—she belonged to the latter group.