To the Pioneers of 1847 By C. Frank Steele (Dedicated to the late President Charles Ora Card and his Company of Utah Pioneers who Founded the first Mormon Settlement in Canada in the Summer of 1887) Behind them the pleasant valleys, Canyon torrents, and rills; Homes, joyous and flower-scented, The rhythm of shops and mills; Mild skies and the lilac mountains With a silver sea at their feet; Their friends, their kin, their prophets, Their Zion, beloved retreat! Before them the vague Tomorrow On a new and an alien soil; Northward and ever northward They press as they sing and toil. Before them a new isolation, A strange and uncharted land— Scarce a fire or a friendly furrow Greets their weary, plodding band. Yet over the trail roll their wagons As their fathers had rolled before, Strong men who loved their homeland Yet loved they duty more. North to the Land of the Blackfeet, This their appointed goal— A Camp of Israel guided By a great and Godlike soul. And the wheels of their wagons bear them To the heights of the Great Divide: On the east the rippling prairie, Hills to the westward side; And beyond the hills the mountains, Old Chief and the snow-crowned peaks Where rise the lordly rivers And the gentle, willowed creeks. They halt on the soil of Canada, Break the fruitful, virgin sod, And caught in the spell of the silences; They find the peace of God; And above them arch the heavens With their banners wide unfurled, And their eyes are bathed in the sunlight And fanned by the Winds of the World. And the promise of things to follow, Of the world that is to be, Homes, cities, a Temple holy With its gifts of eternity Gladdens the hearts of the pilgrims, And their courage never wanes As God gives a wondrous increase To their Zion of the Plains. Thus they build, they sow and harvest, And strength for each new day springs Fresh in the hearts of the exiles And their songs of praise take wings. And beyond the seas of bunch grass And the trails of the buffalo The West of the Future is calling And its destiny they know. And Peace shall abide, and plenty, No more shall their children roam; Here they shall build for Tomorrow And in love they shall make it Home. Address ADDRESS BY HON. ELBERT D. THOMAS, OF UTAH, AT THE THIRTY-SECOND INTERPARLIAMENTARY CONFERENCE IN BUDAPEST ON JULY 4, 1936 I AM asked to speak for America. This I cannot do, for under our Constitution the American people speak for themselves, and they alone can speak for America. Nor can I speak for my colleagues in the Senate of the United States, because under the rules of the Senate there is unlimited debate which implies that each Senator will speak for himself. Those rules are obeyed—quite differently from the way in which the limited debate here has been obeyed. You see, we get obedience by having no limit. We tell a Senator he may speak on to the end of the session, and in that way we get obedience! (Laughter.) I have noted in the speeches and also in the report of our secretary a spirit of discouragement concerning the affairs of the world. As students of history, if we remember the past, there is nothing in the present to be particularly discouraged about, for throughout history conditions in the world have been always, as it were, in a state of flux, and never has the ideal been found. I know of no time and of no place when and where men have lived in a state of bliss and conditions have been such that there has not been concern. Discouraged as we may be, I know of no time in the whole history of the world when so many men, women, and children were living quite so well as they are living today. That, gentlemen, is something. We have talked about the League failure. We should not talk about the League's failure or the League's success. Those are words which have no place in the growth and development of institutions. It is the League's development or the League's retrogression that we should think about. I am sure that I cannot contribute much to the great deliberations here, but I may suggest a thought, and I give it to you from my heart: The idea that nations shall meet and discuss their problems before the whole world is greater than any organization established for that purpose; the idea behind the Inter-Parliamentary Union is much greater than the union itself; the idea of the League is very much greater than the League itself; the idea behind the great American Constitution is much greater than the Constitution itself. For an American to lose faith in international cooperation would be for him to lose faith in the greatest fact of the American governmental history, for in the United States of America there are 53 separate and distinct parliamentary organizations, and 49 of them represent sovereign entities, absolute, except for powers reserved in the people, in their own spheres. It is out of these experiments, it is from these experiences that we have become what we are. We know how far the Federal idea can go. We know the bounds in which the whole may speak and the curbs it may place on any one of its parts. The theory behind that which international organization now calls a sanction we placed in our Federal Constitution. We know both its strength and its weakness. From our experience we know how far to go and when to stop. The American Federal Govern- 442 ment guaranteed in our Constitution a republican form of government in every one of the various States, but never once has the Federal Government attempted to do anything about it. Why? Because we knew, from the very experiences which we underwent when we organized and wrote our Constitution, that once an attempt were made to coerce a State, the Union itself might be destroyed. I BELIEVE I have caught the spirit of the delegates here; I do not know whether I can reflect it, but if so I should like to in what I shall now say. Mr. Rockefeller has restored great monuments at Versailles. Are the French people whom the present French Republic today comprises resentful that a monument which represented a theory of government no longer prevailing and contrary to present theory is to be made to live in stone? No; because they see something more vital than the theory, something finer than the past it represents. France does not wish to return to that past, but she may cherish the beauty it produced. There is no compromise there. That which is good she preserves. That which is bad had no place in the restoration. Her pride is not touched that an American contributes to a perpetuation of the beauty of her past. France does not resent that the world rejoices with her in this monument to her culture. If the world can unite in appreciation of beauty, it may unite in appreciation of other accomplishments. That desire of nations is with us today, for as I turn from one delegation to another I am reminded of the spirits of their pasts. First, as I face the Greek delegation, my thoughts turn to ancient Greece and I remember what RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Sophocles caused his Antigone to say, "It is easy to join for hate and for evil-doing, but it is hard to join for love and for peace." Is that not our struggle today? Inspired by the presence of our Japanese friends I select a Hokku poem which, it seems to me, reflects the idea and the spirit of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. The poem gives us this picture: There are many roads that lead to the top of the mountain, But when once the summit is gained the same moon is seen. Speech after speech from far-off corners of countries represented here reflect the Japanese poet's dream, no dream to us who have climbed the mountain! The moon and the ideal it represents are ours! I fancy a picture of the striving of nations, I can feel the spirit of those nations, and I note that there has been expressed here, time and time again, in very deed, the long-prayed-for "desire of nations." Whether that desire will be fulfilled or not depends upon the way in which the people of the world accept the responsibilities of the present day. Shall we act like the ancient Hebrews who patted themselves on the chest and were proud, and claimed they were the chosen people of the Lord, or shall we be like the thoughtful of those ancients who realized that only those were entitled to be called God's chosen people who first of all chose to be God's chosen ones? We can behold the moon of world unity only if we climb the road that leads to the summit. We can be that which we seek to be only by striving in harmony with the fulfilled purposes of our hoped-for ends. If good will is to come to us, we must reflect good will. If the world is to be made a place of peace, we must learn and must live the way of peace. Music Department By Professor Frank W. Asper IN ORDER to make something of our music, the most necessary requirement is that the instruments have the best of care and are kept in good condition. With our pianos the following points should be observed: Extreme care should be used to keep them covered as much as possible so that the dirt will not get inside the case. Moths always congregate where there is dirt and it is possible for the moth to completely destroy the felt and hammers used on pianos, They should also be made inaccessible to mice. A piano should never be placed against an outside wall but should be inside the room in order to guard against extreme changes in temperature—the ideal way would be to keep the room at a constant temperature. Then too, it will be found that there will not be so much dampness against the inside wall as against the outside. Our houses and auditoriums are all very dry, and this is especially true during the winter when there is very little humidity in the air, and makes the likelihood of the wood cracking very great, and for this reason it is very often advisable to keep one or two plants very close to the piano. The evaporation from the leaves of the plants will keep the air sufficiently moist to avoid any trouble in this way. To keep them in a damp basement is also bad for them. Avoid drafts as this will tend to check the wood and will cause undue expansion and contraction in the piano wires. The piano wires are very delicately strung. Until the last few years the wires were attached to pins which were cylindrical in shape and driven in the pin-block and if the wood was not of the proper kind or grain or seasoning, they would slip. There are many of these old pianos now and it is almost impossible to keep them in tune as there is nothing to stop the tuning pin from turning. In our more modern pianos, however, the tuning pins are tapered, thus enabling the one who takes care of the instrument to drive them further into the wood and in this way hold the piano up to pitch. A PIANO should be tuned twice a year, if possible in the spring and fall and usually at the same pitch as the building is heated, generally about seventy-two degrees. If you are particular about your instrument you will insist that they are always tuned to A-440 or C-523.25. During the course of the year, due to the terrific strain on the wires, a piano will drop one or two vibrations. If they are not pulled up to pitch at least once a year, it is only a matter of a short time until they will be so low that it will be impossible for any other instrument to play in tune with them, and any attempt a tuner might make to bring it back to pitch will result in broken wires, sheared tuning pins and possibly a split pin-block. NOTHING is so repulsive as playing on a piano if sweaty or dirty fingers have been over it. The keys should be wiped off with wood alcohol, but always use the utmost care not to allow any of it to get on the finish or it will turn it white. In polishing the case, the best method is to use castile or Ivory soap in warm water. Dip a piece of soft 444 cheese cloth in warm suds and wring it out, then wipe with a moistened cloth. After this wipe with a dry piece of cheese cloth. The many kinds of polish are also quite satisfactory, as well as the better brands of furniture wax, providing they are rubbed off as much as possible. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE All of these suggestions as to temperature, etc., are applicable to the reed organ as well. In addition the performer should always take care that the stops are pushed in when not in use. This will avoid any difficulty that might be encountered with dust entering the wind chest. ELIZA L. S. UDALL THE GREAT DIVIDE By Bertha A. Kleinman In Memoriam for Sister Eliza L. S. Udall Sister Eliza L. S. Udall was noted for her pioneering activities in Arizona, for her kindness to the Mexicans and for her hospitality. Most of the Church leaders have been entertained by her and her husband who for so many. Years presided over the St. John's Stake. She served for thirty-five years as Relief Society President of that Stake. She was the first matron of the Mesa Temple.—Editor. The day is done and through the Sunset Gates Another bark glides swiftly out to sea, In prime and loveliness the flower fades And darkness shuts the brave eyes tenderly. ELIZA L. S, UDALL 445 But yesterday so gladsome and alive, With kindly word and smile and cheer for all— Her day replete—why need she linger on? The day is done, she heeds the Master's Call. We cannot know the meaning of it all, Why some must go and some of us remain, Except that she so treasured and beloved Is needed, too, and loved in God's Domain. We cannot know the meaning of the storm Why bough and branch must bow before the blast, But this we know—the rugged cliffs take form And stand serene when every storm is past. And this we know and this we cannot doubt That, somewhere in the glory of His scheme, No pang is wasted and no heartache lost, Nor tears unheeded in His blest regime. Beyond the mystic "Parting of the ways" Her lovely soul has taken wings and gone, And unto us is left the lonely days, The span of waiting and the carry-on. Somewhere God yearns for spotless souls like hers To grace the beauty of His Gardens there, Where none of all the millions of the earth Can fill the place He calls for her to share. A little ways, a little time to wait, Then in the dawn beyond the Great Divide Her loved ones too shall follow where she leads And all within His Love be satisfied. APPRAISAL By Alberta H. Christensen I shall not care what they at last may say Who caught my voice, in passing touched my hand. They merely glimpsed an hour of the way Of years; how could they ever understand The integer, who only chanced upon The fraction imprint in the leeward snow? And they who saw my lip in smile attired,— How could they know 'twas not a guise I wore, Shielding with pride some cankerous hurt I bore? What could they know—who saw me stumbling, fall— Of granite heights to which my step aspired? But you—who long have known my every mood— Your weighing flawless, and your verdict true—, Oh I shall never care what they may say; Only beloved, what can be said by you. Notes To The Field Theology Department "Theology is ordered knowledge, representing in the intellect what religion represents in the heart and life of man." THE ministry of the Savior will be the continued subject for 1937-38. The truths embraced therein will undoubtedly be studied with interest and zeal, for in the past year an increase in attendance, and satisfactory progress in the study of the scriptures has been noted. The attention of the class leaders is called to the paragraph preceding lesson 1 in regard to listed references. The Latter-day Saint scriptures (those starred,) together with the lessons themselves afford sufficient material and proof of all statements made, and unless the other books are not easily available, as stated, it is not necessary to acquire them. As believers in the divinity of the mission of the prophet Joseph Smith, it is a satisfaction to have the light of knowledge through revelation of the word of the Lord on these subjects—the time of the Savior's birth, The miracle of His birth, The place of His baptism and His divine power; questions so much discussed and pondered over by the learned theologians of the world without agreement or positive answer. The Doctrine and Covenants, which is direct revelation and the Book of Mormon, translated through the power of God, give definite and clear statements on these matters and will certainly tend to strengthen the testimonies which will follow the discussion of the lesson. There is no reading in all literature that so enriches the mind and understanding and at the same time yields such a field for thought and conjecture as the scriptures; almost every verse is a poem, every episode a drama and all combined an inspiration for the higher and truer attainments of life. May this year's work be a joy and development to the souls of all our members, and a strengthening of their faith and testimonies. Literary Department IT has been suggested that Pale Moon and The Indian Love Call would be very delightful musical numbers to be used during the study of The Star of the West. The following is a quotation from a letter of Mrs. Ethel Hueston, the author of The Star of the West. It is an interesting side light on the book, which gives one the feeling of reading real history in the delightful narrative. "The Library of Congress loaned me copies of the Original Journals of Lewis and Clark, and I carried them with me on a motor trip following their trail from St. Louis, up the Missouri River and across the mountains to the Pacific, visiting as many of their points of interest as could be located. I can assure you that my account is entirely authentic, using their daily diaries as a base. When the weather is mentioned, the weather is as they recorded it. My account was really a novelized version of their journals, instead of an historical romance. I introduced not one fictional character. I only supplied detail and conversation, but every incident recorded was included in their journals; in brief, terse form of course. "One thing that was clearly indi- NOTES TO THE FIELD cated in their Journals seems to me should be particularly stressed to young students; the effect of discipline. You will observe that all the infractions of rules and orders occurred in that first year, between St. Louis and Mandan. There was disobedience, absence without leave, desertion, theft, incipient rebellions. Every case was dealt with, by a committee of the men; sentences were agreed upon, and justice administered. And the discipline proved its point; after Mandan there was not one other case of trouble with the men. Rules were established, and they were obeyed. The men were loyal, obedient, and zealous; the leaders were careful, considerate and just." SOCIAL SERVICE DEPT. A CALL to arms is heralded to the members of the Church. "Church-wide Beautification of our Places of Worship." Here is another opportunity for the application of our social service Lessons in Civic Sociology. The keynote of success in this project is loyal cooperation of every member of the family. That the Relief Societies have long since been standard bearers and pace setters in the beautification program is evidenced by the lovely rooms you have furnished in your various wards. Many Relief Society rooms are covered with carpet, the walls and woodwork decorated in appropriate colors, harmonious 447 drapes and suitable furniture give an atmosphere of peace and rest to all who enter your rooms. The hours of unselfish though weary toil are forgotten in the pride and heartfelt satisfaction you feel when you see what you have accomplished. That you will not fail to cooperate in every way possible to extend your improvement program to every nook and corner of your Church inside and to the grounds surrounding it is self evident, because you have never failed in loyally supporting any movement for the beautification of our Church. Among the many needs of the Church is efficient janitorial service, care of sacrament service, improved sanitation, screened windows, comfortable seating, carpeted isles or entire floors, pride in class rooms, more trees, shrubs and flowers, walks, and fences. When the bishop calls for your suggestions concerning these problems we hope this little message will have given you an opportunity to have been thinking about the matter and find you well prepared to help where you are most needed. ERRATUM IN publishing the prices of the books for our Literary course next year on page 395 of the June issue a line was dropped. By turning to the advertising section in the front of the book the Deseret Book Company gives the correct price list. Notes From The Field Julia A, F, Lund—General Secretary Malad Stake. FROM the Malad Stake comes the following comprehensive report of the activities of 1936-37. We certainly congratulate Sister Nellie K. Dredge, the President. It is difficult to see a phase of activity which this enterprising Stake has not conducted. In August of 1936 the Stake Board sponsored a pre-school clinic. The cooperation of the doctors and dentists with Relief Society was most complete. The mothers of the community had been brought to realize the importance of having the children examined and the corrective work done. The class leaders' and visiting teachers' convention held in September was a most successful event. The following is a copy of the material on the card which was given to each visiting teacher: "To be dependable. To make prayerful preparation of my work. To deliver my message. To speak no ill.. To be a mother in my district. To live worthy of my calling. To attend all my Relief Society and Visiting Teachers' meetings. To take sunshine into the homes I visit. To look for something beautiful in every home. To have tact and kindliness above all else. Seek self-development daily, through the spirit of God, in exercising all spiritual and material resources." In September also the Relief Society joined with the Y. W. M. I. A. In conducting a county fair and a most beautiful flower show. The sisters from the entire Stake brought flowers of different kinds. The event was most successful. In December the Stake Board prepared lunch and program and went to the Washakie Ward, where a very fine social was held with the Lamanite sisters. These sisters took part in the program of songs and games and in every way indicated their ability to cooperate in Relief Society work. The theme "Why we have a Work and Business meeting" was the subject for the Relief Society Conference. The Lamanite sisters made three beautiful quilts, the patterns and quilting and every phase of the work was done as beautifully as could be. There were also embroidered pillow cases, luncheon sets, and real buckskin gloves beautifully beaded. There were also many other lovely articles of a similar nature. The canned fruit made by the Washakie sisters was just as beautifully done as any in the Stake. So much of the credit for the fine work accomplished by the Lamanite sisters belongs to their President, Sister Margaret Parry, whose patience and persistence have produced beautiful results. The Stake Board and the local Relief Societies assisted the Old Folks Committee in their entertainment in February. A hot dinner was served to about four hundred by the Relief Society sisters. This was followed by a lovely program. On March 17 the Stake Board outlined a uniform program for the celebration of Anniversary Day, and the event was carried out in exquisite detail in all the wards. To stimulate enrollment and average attendance the Daughters Day program was observed. The majority of Relief Society membership attended the Temple NOTES FROM THE FIELD Mission which was sponsored in the Logan Temple in May of this year. A ladies' chorus of Relief Society members sang the selections and the Relief Society Stake President spoke during the meeting. The Scriptural Project has been taken up with great enthusiasm and many of the members have completed the reading of the Bible and memorized the names of the books. In concluding her report Sister Cecelia D. Rutter, the Secretary, writes, "Each year we aim to make a change in reference to our program for Relief Society Conference. One year we took Theology as the subject, then Literature. This year we took Work and Business, and asked each ward to bring in the quilts SAN BERNARDINO WARD RELIEF or other articles that had been made, so that at the Stake Conference, held on Sunday evening, there was a beautiful display. The Conferences have been held and successfully carried out. The songs and talks all coincided with the theme, and the spirit of each Conference was beautiful. 449 "It is marvelous how well and how beautifully the sisters have cooperated in contributing toward the Church Security Program. Shelves and shelves of lovely fruit of every variety have been conserved, and twenty-six serviceable quilts made, men's and women's clothing of various kinds, and dozens of pairs of wearable shoes and household articles have been contributed through the Relief Society to the Security work, "Our chief aim has been as a Stake Board to cooperate with the Priesthood, and to the very best of our ability carry out the details and advice and timely instructions which the General Board have sent to us." SOCIETY: San Bernardino Stake FROM one of our younger Stakes the above picture is sent. We were very happy to have this from San Bernardino. This picture was taken at the recent celebration of the anniversary of the founding of Relief Society. The script was written by Sister Roxana F. Hase in honor 450 of the seven General Presidents of the Relief Society. Those who impersonated the General Presidents were all either active or past presidents in Relief Society work. While some of our Stakes may. Be young in point of organization, they all have the spirit of Relief Society work, and we are most happy to hear from them. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mission, and others write, 'We all feel that the Relief Society Magazine is indispensable to us. The wonderful material which it contains is of great help to us, and we want to tell you how much we appreciate it." Tongan Mission FROM far-away Tonga a very delightful letter came from Sister HAMILTON, MONTANA, RELIEF SOCIETY Northwestern States Mission THE office was very happy to receive the above picture from Sister Helen Jorgensen, Supervisor of the Mission Relief Societies. It is of the Hamilton Relief Society in the Montana District. According to reports from the Mission's office, this is one of the most enthusiastic organizations among the members. It is well organized and demonstrates upon all occasions a very fine spirit of cooperation. The activities and lesson program are successfully conducted. The picture was taken upon the occasion of their annual celebration for the Anniversary Day. This Evelyn H. Dunn. The picture on the opposite page is of the Haapai District. Sister Dunn has this to say of her organization: "The sisters are faithful in doing all that is asked of them, and I am sure they enjoy the work. We have just finished a very successful conference in each of the districts and the Relief Society sessions were enjoyed by all the Saints. "We experienced a bad hurricane in the Togatabu district in February, but no one was injured, The Saints seem to be able to have plenty of food, even though their crops were badly damaged. The work of the Relief Society, in helping the NOTES FROM THE FIELD 451 TONGAN MISSION poor and unfortunate is just a continuation of the old native customs, and I am sure there will be no one in want of food and clothing as long as others of the Saints have any. They are very wonderful to help one another and scarcely ever ask for money from the Relief Society to do it with. I am sure they are blessed for their goodness." TO UTAH By Terrence Sylvester Glennamaddy For you, O Sunshine State, the hardy pioneers Poured precious blood and strewed along the trail, white bones To mingle with those of buffalo! And hot tears Of lonely wife oft wet a pile of cold grey stones; But when the wagon train moved on, with lifted head, And confidence in God, she turned toward setting sun, Determined fertile vales to till. Though he was dead— She went ever on, and by her side their son. Now golden wheat fields wave where once was only sage; No more does blood of hero saint stain red the trail: No savage demons over peaceful prairies rage; Nor Renegades burn wagon trains and rob the mail. God give to Utah and her faithful children, peace And courage to continue building, down the years; From everything that binds our faith give just release, Oh Blessed Father of the sons of pioneers.  

Vol. XXIV JULY, 1937. No. 7 Editorials Difficulties With the coming of July 24 we think of that sturdy band who pioneered the West and of the hardships they endured. We pity them that they went through such trying experiences, but hardships are not wholly undesirable. Through overcoming difficulties there comes a courage and fortitude that makes for the strongest character. Facing difficulties brings strength that an easy life never develops. Pioneering brings out latent resourcefulness. It makes for brotherhood. Each feels the other's difficulties and tries to lighten the burden. All share in the joy that comes. Many people have been dwarfed, the best in them never developed because they have been shielded from every hard thing. Hendrix Willem Van Loon, noted historian, said at the National Education Association convention in New Orleans: "During the last three generations we have done nothing but give in to our children. We gave them schools that were far too good for them. We deprived them of all trouble and made learning as easy and pleasant and painless as going fishing. "We told them there were nice little jobs awaiting them just around the corner with a nice wife and a mink coat and a nice house and a nice mortgage, nicely handled by a nice bank. "As long as America had stood for hardships, for pioneering, for fighting one's way through the wilderness ?as long as there had been adventure and uncertainty in the American scheme of things?we had a definite and concrete American philosophy of life and nobody dreamed of importing from abroad what we could so infinitely better right here at home." Isn't there a great deal in this arraignment? Are we not all shielding children too much from difficulty and trying to make everything so easy that they do not develop the strength, sturdiness, fortitude, that meeting EDITORIALS hard tasks gave to their parents? Much as mothers realize the strength that comes from battle, the fortitude that results from overcoming difficulties, yet they ever seek to shield their children and make life as easy as possible for them. Fortunately they are not able to wholly do this, otherwise their children would be very much weaker than they now are. Psychologists are telling us that we should all do something we don't want to do every day, that we should attempt difficult tasks for the strength that will result. It is well known that the furnace fires free the metal from the dross, and so it is no wonder that the Pioneers developed such strong characters. They had to face difficulties! They had to develop their ingenuity; they had to stand together, helping each other to overcome difficulties and to bring victory out of seeming defeat. Art Of all the notifications that our Magazines have failed to reach their destination we think the loveliest message we have received was written by Rose M. Hardy. She said: "Dear Relief Society Magazine. For some reason you have failed to greet me with your messages of love 453 and cheer this month. Needless to tell you how lost I am without you, especially when I have to present the lesson in the Theology Department. You know how much I need you, so please get here as soon as you can. Affectionately." It's an art to be able to do things in such a sweet way as this. Magazine To Be Larger WE are glad to announce that henceforth our Magazine will be increased four pages in each issue. This will give us seventy or more pages of reading matter, according to the number of ads carried in each number. This is quite a growth from the size of the first issue, which had forty-four pages of reading matter. SAGE SONG By Martha Ball I love to stand on yonder hill And gaze out o'er the great expanse Of purple, tufted, scented, sage, After the storm, after the dance? After the dance of the sparkling rain, Whose tiny feet spread sweet perfume On every tuft of silver sage, On every quivering virgin plume. I stand alone on yonder hill, A soul bereft of a home-spun age. Seeking sweet peace in the solitude, Finding release in the primitive sage. Lesson Department Theology and Testimony Lesson I Some Mormon Contributions To An Understanding Of The Life And Teachings Of Christ IN this and the following lessons there are pointed out a number of distinctive Mormon contributions to Christ's life and work. In many respects the point of view of the Latter-day Saints is entirely different from that of the world. Those who desire to further pursue their studies as here indicated, and who have library facilities, may do so by comparing points of view expressed in the following list of books. The starred books are Mormon publications. Smith?*Gospel Doctrine. Smith?*The Way To Perfection. Talmage?*Jesus The Christ. Talmage?*The Articles of Faith. Gray?Critical Introduction to the Old Testament. McFadyen?Introduction To The Old Testament. Scott?Literature of The New Testament. Dana?New Testament Criticism. Klausner?Jesus of Nazareth. Case?Experience With The Supernatural In Early Christian Times. 1. The Time of Christ's Birth ? Many scholars have attempted to determine precisely the date of Christ's birth. However, we shall not here presume to point out the various lines of reasoning and methods used by those who have sought to fix this important mile post in world history. Suffice it to say that very able scholars disagree upon the year of our Savior's birth. The results range all the way from B. C. 1 to B. C. 9 with B. C. 4 being in all probability the most acceptable mean date. Dr. Joseph Klausner in his book, Jesus of Nazareth, is of the opinion that Jesus "was born in the reign of Augustus two to four years before the Christian era." Now two of our modern scriptures enable Latter-day Saints to more precisely point out the time of our Lord's birth. The Book of Mormon has several helpful references. Nephi definitely shows that "even six hundred years from the time that my father left Jerusalem, a prophet would the Lord God raise up among the Jews?even a Messiah, or in other words, a Savior of the world." (1 Nephi 10:4; compare 1 Nephi 19:8; 2 Nephi 25:19.) The Nephite scripture records the fact that Lehi and his family were commanded by the Lord to leave Jerusalem "in the commencement of the first year of the reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah." (1 Nephi 1:4, 2:2-4.) Zedekiah's reign must have commenced, therefore, about three years earlier than ordinarily supposed. The fulfilment of the Nephite prophets' predictions are recorded in 3 Nephi 1:1-21. One should read also in this connection the prophecy of Samuel, the Lamanite. (Helaman 14:2-7.) The Nephite people were given a marvelous sign of Christ's birth which occurred according to our reckoning in the year B. C. 1. The Doctrine and Covenants (20:1) seems to point out even the day of Christ's birth. "The rise of the Church of Christ in these last days, being one thousand eight hundred and thirty years since the coming of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in the flesh, it being regularly organized and established agreeable to the laws of our country, by the will and commandments of God, in the fourth month, and on the sixth day of the month which is called April." The exact date of Christ's birth is thus set on April 6, B. C. 1. Some people may feel this contribution to be of little importance. We feel that any contribution made to our knowledge of the Christ is of value. The consecrated labors of thousands of scholars are a testimony to that opinion. 2. The Problem of the Virgin Birth?In times past comparatively few people doubted the simple straightforward stories of the birth of Christ as related in the gospels of Matthew and Luke. While there have been those through the centuries who have been doubters, it is within comparatively recent times that the scepticism has become so pronounced. From some recent books on early Christian history one would almost glean the idea that the Palestinian of Christ's day, indeed most of the peoples of the Mediterranean world, were living in a fool's paradise of supernaturalism. Examples are cited from the literature paralleling practically every miracle mentioned in the New Testament, including Christ's miraculous birth. The conclusion we are supposed to draw is that
northward They press as they sing and toil. Before them a new isolation, A strange and uncharted land? Scarce a fire or a friendly furrow Greets their weary, plodding band. Yet over the trail roll their wagons As their fathers had rolled before, Strong men who loved their homeland Yet loved they duty more. North to the Land of the Blackfeet, This their appointed goal? A Camp of Israel guided By a great and Godlike soul. And the wheels of their wagons bear them To the heights of the Great Divide: On the east the rippling prairie, Hills to the westward side; And beyond the hills the mountains, on Old Chief and the snow-crowned peaks Where rise the lordly rivers And the gentle, willowed creeks. They halt on the soil of Canada, Break the fruitful, virgin sod, And caught in the spell of the silences; They find the peace of God; And above them arch the heavens With their banners wide unfurled, And their eyes are bathed in the sunlight And fanned by the Winds of the World. And the promise of things to follow, Of the world that is to be, Homes, cities, a Temple holy With its gifts of eternity Gladdens the hearts of the pilgrims, And their courage never wanes As God gives a wondrous increase To their Zion of the Plains. Thus they build, they sow and harvest, And strength for each new day springs Fresh in the hearts of the exiles And their songs of praise take wings. And beyond the seas of bunch grass And the trails of the buffalo The West of the Future is calling And its destiny they know. And Peace shall abide, and plenty, No more shall their children roam; Here they shall build for Tomorrow And in love they shall make it Home. ~O Address ADDRESS BY HON. ELBERT 'D. THOMAS, OF UTAH, AT THE THIRTY-SECOND _ INTERPARLIAMENTARY CONFERENCE IN BUDAPEST ON JULY 4, 1936 AM asked to speak for America. This I cannot do, for under our Constitution the American people speak for themselves, and they alone can speak for America. Nor can I speak for my colleagues in the Senate of the United States, because under the rules of the Senate there is unlimited debate which implies that each Senator will speak for himself. Those rules are obeyed?quite differently from the way in which the limited debate here has been obeyed. You see, we get obedience by having no limit. We tell a Senator he may speak on to the end of the session, and in that way we get obedience! (Laughter.) I have noted in the speeches and also in the report of our secretary a spirit of discouragement concerning the affairs of the world. As students of history, if we remember the past, there is nothing in the present to be particularly discouraged about, for throughout history conditions in the world have been always, as it were, in a state of flux, and never has the ideal been found. I know of no time and of no place when and where men have lived in a state of bliss and conditions have been such that there has not been concern. Discouraged as we may be, I know of no time in the whole history of the world when so many men, women, and children were living quite so well as they are living today. That, gentlemen, is something. We have talked about the League failure. We should not talk about the League's failure or the League's success. Those are words which have no place in the growth and development of institutions. It is the League's development or the League's retrogression that we should think about. Iam sure that I cannot contribute much to the great deliberations here, but I may suggest a thought, and I give it to you from my heart: The idea that nations shall meet and discuss their problems before the whole world is greater than any organization established for that purpose; the idea behind the Inter-Parliamentary Union is much greater than the union itself; the idea of the League is very much greater than the League itself; the idea behind the great American Constitution is much greater than the Constitution itself. For an American to lose faith in international cooperation would be for him to lose faith in the greatest fact of the American governmental history, for in the United States of America there are 53 separate and distinct parliamentary organizations, and 49 of them represent sovereign entities, absolute, except for powers reserved in the people, in their own spheres. It is out of these experiments, it is from these experiences that we have become what we are. We know how far the Federal idea can go. We know the bounds in which the whole may speak and the curbs it may place on any one of its parts. The theory behind that which international organization now calls a sanction we placed in our Federal Constitution. We know both its strength and its weakness. From our experience we know how far to go and when to stop. The American Federal Govern- 442 ment guaranteed in our Constitution a republican form of government in every one of the various States, but never once has the Federal Government attempted to do anything about it. Why? Because we knew, from the very experiences which we underwent when we organized and wrote our Constitution, that once an attempt were made to coerce a State, the Union itself might be destroyed. BELIEVE I have caught the spirit of the delegates here; I do not know whether I can reflect it, but if so I should like to in what I shall now say. Mr. Rockefeller has restored great monuments at Versailles. Are the French people whom the present French Republic today comprises resentful that a monument which represented a theory of government no longer prevailing and contrary to present theory is to be made to live in stone? No; because they see something more vital than the theory, something finer than the past it represents. France does not wish to return to that past, but she may cherish the beauty it produced. There is no compromise there. That which is good she preserves. That which is bad had no place in the restoration. Her pride is not touched that an American contributes to a perpetuation of the beauty of her past. France does not resent that the world rejoices with her in this monument to her culture. If the world can unite in appreciation of beauty, it may unite in appreciation of other accomplishments. That desire of nations is with us today, for as I turn from one delegation to another I am reminded of the spirits of their pasts. First, as I face the Greek delegation, my thoughts turn to ancient Greece and I remember what RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Sophocles caused his Antigone to say, "It is easy to join for hate and for evil-doing, but it is hard to join for love and for peace." Is that not our struggle today? Inspired by the presence of our Japanese friends I select a Hokku poem which, it seems to me, reflects the idea and the spirit of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. The poem gives us this picture: There are many roads that lead to the top of the mountain, But when once the summit is gained the same moon is seen. Speech after speech from far-off corners of countries represented here reflect the Japanese poet's dream, no dream to us who have climbed the mountain! The moon and the ideal it represents are ours! I fancy a picture of the striving of nations, I can feel the spirit of those nations, and I note that there has been expressed here, time and time again, in very deed, the long-prayedfor "desire of nations." Whether that desire will be fulfilled or not depends upon the way in which the people of the world accept the responsibilities of the present day. Shall we act like the ancient Hebrews who patted themselves on the chest and were proud, and claimed they were the chosen people of the Lord, or shall we be like the thoughtful of those ancients who realized that only those were entitled to be called God's chosen people who first of all chose to be God's chosen ones? We can behold the moon of world unity only if we climb the road that leads to the summit. We can be that which we seek to be only by striving in harmony with the fulfilled purposes of our hoped-for ends. If good will is to come to us, we must reflect good will. If the world is to be made a place of peace, we must learn and must live the way of peace. Music Department By Professor Frank W. Asper of our music, the most necessary requirement is that the instruments have the best of care and are kept in good condition. With our pianos the following points should be observed: Extreme care should be used to keep them covered as much as possible so that the dirt will not get inside the case. Moths always congregate where there is dirt and it is possible for the moth to completely destroy the felt and hammers used on pianos, They should also be made inaccessible to mice. A piano should never be placed against an outside wall but should be inside the room in order to guard against extreme changes in teniperature?the ideal way would be to keep the room at a constant temperature. Then too, it will be found that there will not be so much dampness against the inside wall as against the outside. Our houses and auditoriums are all very dry, and this is especially true during the winter when there is very little humidity in the air, and makes the likelihood of the wood cracking very great, and for this reason it is very often advisable to keep one or two plants very close to the piano. The evaporation from the leaves cf the plants will keep the air sufficiently moist to avoid any trouble in this way. To keep them in a damp basement is also bad for them. Avoid drafts as this will tend to check the wood and will cause undue expansion and contraction in the piano wires. The piano wires are very delicately strung. Until the last few years the wires were attached to pins which I N ORDER to make something were cylindrical in shape and driven in the pin-block and if the wood was not of the proper kind or grain or seasoning, they would slip. There are many of these old pianos now and it is almost impossible to keep them in tune as there is nothing to stop the tuning pin from turning. In our more modern pianos, however, the tuning pins are tapered, thus enabling the one who takes care of the instrument to drive them further into the wood and in this way hold the piano up to pitch. PIANO should be tuned twice a year, if possible in the spring and fall and usually at the same pitch as the building is heated, generally about seventy-two degrees. If you are particular about your instrument you will insist that they are always tuned to A-440 or C-523.25. During the course of the year, due to the terrific strain on the wires, a piano will drop one or two vibrations. If they are not pulled up to pitch at least ofice a year, it is only a matter of a short time until they will be so low that it will be impossible for any other instrument to play in tune with them, and any attempt a tuner might make to bring it back to pitch will result in broken wires, sheared tuning pins and possibly a split pin-block. NOTHING is so repulsive as playing on a piano if sweaty or dirty fingers have been over it. The keys should be wiped off with wood alcohol, but always use the utmost care not to allow any of it to get on the finish or it will turn it white. In polishing the case, the best method is to use castile or Ivory soap in warm water. Dip a piece of soft 444 cheese cloth in warm suds and wring it out, then wipe with a moistened cloth. After this wipe with a dry piece of cheese cloth. The many kinds of polish are also quite satisfactory, as well as the better brands of furniture wax, providing they are rubbed off as much as possible. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE All of these suggestions as to temperature, etc., are applicable to the reed organ as well. In addition the 'performer should always take care that the stops are pushed in when not in use. This will avoid any difficulty that might be encountered with dust entering the wind chest. ELIZA L. ?. UDALL THE GREAT DIVIDE By Bertha A. Kleinman In Memoriam for Sister Eliza L. S. Udall Sister Eliza L. S. Udall was noted or her pioneering activities in Arizona, for her kindness to the Mexicans and for her hospitality. Most of the Church leaders have been entertained by her and her husband who for so many. Years presided over the St. John's Stake. She served for thirty-five years as Relief Society Presient of that Stake. She was the first matron of the Mesa Temple.?Editor. The day is done and through the Sunset Gates Another bark glides swiftly out to sea, In prime and loveliness the flower fades And darkness shuts the brave eyes tenderly. ELIZA L. S, UDALL 445 But yesterday so gladsome and alive, With kindly word and smile and cheer for all? Her day replete?why need she linger on? The day is done, she heeds the Master's Call. We cannot know the meaning of it all, Why some must go and some of us remain, Except that she so treasured and beloved Is needed, too, and loved in God's Domain. We cannot know the meaning of the storm Why bough and branch must bow before the blast, But this we know?the rugged cliffs take form And stand serene when every storm is past. And this we know and this we cannot doubt That, somewhere in the glory of His scheme, No pang is wasted and no heartache lost, Nor tears unheeded in His blest regime. Beyond the mystic "Parting of the ways" Her lovely soul has taken wings and gone, And unto us is left the lonely days, The span of waiting and the carry-on. Somewhere God yearns for spotless souls like hers To grace the beauty of His Gardens there, Where none of all the millions of the earth Can fill the place He calls for her to share. A little ways, a little time to wait, Then in the dawn beyond the Great Divide Her loved ones too shall follow where she leads And all within His Love be satisfied. APPRAISAL By Alberta H. Christensen I shall not care what they at last may say Who caught my voice, in passing touched my hand. They merely glimpsed an hour of the way Of years; how could they ever understand The integer, who only chanced upon The fraction imprint in the leeward snow? And they who saw my lip in smile attired,? How could they know 'twas not a guise I wore, Shielding with pride some cankerous hurt I bore? What could they know?who saw me stumbling, fall? Of granite heights to which my step aspired? But you?who long have known my every mood? Your weighing flawless, and your verdict true?, Oh I shall never care what they may say; Only beloved, what can be said by you. Notes To Theology Department "Theology is ordered knowledge, representing in the intellect what religion represents in the heart and life of man." "THE ministry of the Savior will be the continued subject for 1937-38. The truths embraced therein will undoubtedly be studied with interest and zeal, for in the past year an increase in attendance, and satisfactory progress in the study of the scriptures has been noted. The attention of the class leaders is called to the paragraph preceding lesson 1 in regard to listed references. The Latter-day Saint scriptures (those starred,) together with the lessons themselves afford sufficient material and prooi of all statements made, and unless the other books are not easily available, as stated, it is not necessary to acquire them. As believers in the divinity of the mission of the prophet Joseph Smith, it is a satisfaction to have the light of knowledge through revelation of the word of the Lord on these subjects?the time of the Savior's birth, The miracle of His birth, The place of His baptism and His divine power; questions so much discussed and pondered over by the learned theologians of the world without agreement or positive answer. The Doctrine and Covenants, which is direct revelation and the Book of Mormon, translated through the power of God, give definite and clear statements on these matters and will certainly tend to strengthen the testimonies which will follow the discussion of the lesson. There is no reading in all literature that so enriches the mind and The Field understanding and at the same time yields such a field for thought and conjecture as the scriptures; almost every verse is a poem, every episode a drama and all combined an inspiration for the higher and truer attainments of life. May this year's work be a joy and development to the souls of all our members, and a strengthening of their faith and testimonies. Literary Department T has been suggested that Pale Moon and The Indian Love Call would be very delightful musical ? numbers to be used during the study of The Star of the West. The following is a quotation from a letter of Mrs. Ethel Hueston, the author of The Star of the West. It is an interesting side light on the book, which gives one the feeling of reading real history in the delightful narrative. "The Library of Congress loaned me copies of the Original Journals of Lewis and Clark, and I carried them with me on a motor trip following their trail from St. Louis, up the Missouri River and across the mountains to the Pacific, visiting as many of their points of interest as could be located. I can assure you that my account is entirely authentic, using their daily diaries as a base. When the weather is mentioned, the weather is as they recorded it. My account was really a novelized version of their journals, instead of an historical romance. I introduced not one fictional character. I only supplied detail and conversation, but every incident recorded was included in their journals; in brief, terse form of course. "One thing that was clearly indi- NOTES TO THE FIELD cated in their Journals seems to me should be particularly stressed to young students; the effect of discipline. You will observe that all the infractions of rules and orders occurred in that first year, between St. Louis and Mandan. There was disobedience, absence without leave, desertion, theft, incipient rebellions. Every case was dealt with, by a committee of the men; sentences were agreed upon, and justice administered. And the discipline proved its point; after Mandan there was not one other case of trouble with the men. Rules were established, and they were obeyed. The men were loyal, obedient, and zealous; the leaders were careful, considerate and just." SOCIAL SERVICE DEPT. A CALL to arms is heralded to the members of the Churcll. "Church-wide Beautification of our Places of Worship." Here is another opportunity for the application of our social service Lessons in Civic Sociology. The keynote of success in this project is loyal cooperation of every member of the family. That the Relief Societies have long since been standard bearers and pace setters in the beautification program is evidenced by the lovely rooms you have furnished in your various wards. Many Relief Society rooms are covered with carpet, the walls and woodwork decorated in appropriate colors, harmonious eS 447 drapes and suitable furniture give an atmosphere of peace and rest to all who enter your rooms. The hours of unselfish though weary toil are forgotten in the pride and heartfelt satisfaction you feel when you see what you have accomplished. That you will not fail to cooper ate in every way possible to extend your improvement program to every nook and corner of your Church inside and to the grounds surrounding it is self evident, because you have never failed in loyally supporting any movement for the beautification of our Church. Among the many needs of the Church is efficient janitorial service, care of sacrament service, improved sanitation, screened windows, comfortable seating, carpeted isles or entire floors, pride in class rooms, more trees, shrubs and _ flowers, walks, and fences. When the bishop calls for your suggestions concerning these problems we hope this little message will have given you an opportunity to have been thinking about the matter and find you well prepared to help where you are most needed. ERRATUM [X publishing the prices of the books for our Literary course next year on page 395 of the June issue a line was dropped. By turning to the advertising section in the front of the book the Deseret Book Company gives the correct price list. % Notes From The Field Julia A, F, Lund?General Secretary Malad Stake. FROM the Malad Stake comes the following comprehensive report of the activities of 1936-37. We certainly congratulate Sister Nellie K. Dredge, the President. It is difficult to see a phase of activity which this enterprising Stake has not conducted. In August of 1936 the Stake Board sponsored a pre-school clinic. The cooperation of the doctors and dentists with Relief Society was most complete. The mothers of the community had been brought to realize the importance of having the children examined and the corrective work done. The class leaders' and visiting teachers' convention held in September was a most successful event. The following is a copy of the material on the card which was given to each visiting teacher: "To be dependable. To make prayerful preparation of my work. To deliver my message. To speak no ill.. To be a mother in my district. To live worthy of my calling. To attend all my Relief Society and Visiting Teachers' meetings. To take sunshine into the homes I visit. To look for something beautiful in every home. To have tact and kindliness above all else. Seek seli-development daily, through the spirit of God, in exercising all spiritual and material resources." In September also the Relief Society joined with the Y. W. M. I. A. In conducting a county fair and a most beautiful flower show. The sisters from the entire Stake brought To flowers of different kinds. The event was most successful. In December the Stake Board prepared lunch and program and went to the Washakie Ward, where a very fine social was held with the Lamanite sisters. 'These sisters took part in the program of songs and games and in every way indicated their ability to cooperate in Relief Society work. The theme "Why we have a Work and Business meeting" was the subject for the Relief Society Conference. The Lamanite sisters made three beautiful quilts, the patterns and quilting and every phase ofthe work was done as beautifully as could be. There were also embroidered pillow cases, luncheon sets, and real buckskin gloves beautifully beaded. There were also many other lovely articles of a similar nature. The canned fruit made by the Washakie sisters was just as beautifully done as any in the Stake. So much of the credit for the fine work accomplished by the Lamanite sisters belongs to their President, Sister Margaret Parry, whose patience and persistence have produced beautiful results. The Stake Board and the local Relief Societies assisted the Old Folks Committee in their entertainment in February. A hot dinner was served to about four hundred by the Relief Society sisters. This was followed by a lovely program. On March 17 the Stake Board outlined a uniform program for the celebration of Anniversary Day, and the event was carried out in exquisite detail in all the wards. To stimulate enrollment and average attendance the Daughters Day program was observed. The majority of Relief Society membership attended the Temple NOTES FROM THE FIELD Mission which was sponsored in the Logan Temple in May of this year. A ladies' chorus of Relief Society members sang the selections and the Relief Society Stake President spoke during the meeting. The Scriptural Project has been taken up with great enthusiasm and many of the members have completed the reading of the Bible and memorized the names of the books. In concluding her report Sister Cecelia D. Rutter, the Secretary, writes, "Each year we aim to make a change in reference to our program for Relief Society Conference. One year we took Theology as the subject, then Literature. 'This year we took Work and Business, and asked each ward to bring in the quilts SAN BERNARDINO WARD RELIEF or other articles that had been made, so that at the Stake Conference, held on Sunday evening, there was a beautiful display. The Conferences have been held and successfully carried out. The songs and talks all coincided with the theme, and the Spit of each Conference was beautitul. 449 "Tt is marvelous how well and how beautifully the sisters have cooperated in contributing toward the Church Security Program. Shelves and shelves of lovely fruit of every variety have been conserved, and twenty-six serviceable quilts made, men's and women's clothing of various kinds, and dozens of pairs of wearable shoes and household articles have been contributed through the Relief Society to the Security work, "Our chief aim has been asa Stake Board to cooperate with the Priesthood, and to the very best of our ability carry out the details and advice and timely instructions which the General Board have sent to us." SOCIETY: San Bernardino Stake FROM one of our younger Stakes the above picture is sent. We were very happy to have this from San Bernardino. This picture was taken at the recent celebration of the anniversary of the founding of Relief Society. The script was written by Sister Roxana F. Hase in honor 450 of the seven General Presidents of the Relief Society. Those who impersonated the General Presidents were all either active or past presidents in Relief Society work. While some of our Stakes may. Be young in point of organization, they all have the spirit of Relief Society work, and we are most happy to hear from them. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mission, and others write, 'We all feel that the Relief Society Magazine is indispensable to us. The wonderful material which it contains is of great help to us, and we want to tell you how much we appreciate it." Tongan Mission ROM far-away Tonga a very delightful letter came from Sister HAMILTON, MONTANA, RELIEF SOCIETY Northwestern States Mission HE office was very happy to receive the above picture from Sister Helen Jorgensen, Supervisor of the Mission Relief Societies. It is of the Hamilton Relief Society in the Montana District. According to reports from the Mission's office, this is one of the most enthusiastic organizations among the members. It is well organized and demonstrates upon all occasions a very fine spirit of cooperation. The activities and lesson program are successfully conducted. The picture was taken upon the occasion of their annual celebration for the Anniversary Day. This Evelyn H. Dunn. The picture on the opposite page is of the Haapai District. Sister Dunn has this to say of her organization: "The sisters are faithful in doing all that is asked of them, and I am sure they enjoy the work. We have just finished a very successful conference in each of the districts and the Relief Society sessions were enjoyed by all the Saints. "We experienced a bad hurricane in the Togatabu district in February, but no one was injured, The Saints seem to be able to have plenty of food, even though their crops were badly damaged. The work of the Relief Society, in helping the NOTES FROM THE FIELD 451 TONGAN MISSION poor and unfortunate is just a conThey are very wonderful to help tinuation of the old native customs, one another and scarcely ever ask and I am sure there will be no one for money from the Relief Society in want of food and clothing as long to do it with. I am sure they are as others of the Saints have any. Blessed for their goodness." 1 Sy2??__$~?> TO UTAH By Terrence Sylvester Glennamaddy For you, O Sunshine State, the hardy pioneers Poured precious blood and strewed along the trail, white bones To mingle with those of buffalo! And hot tears Of lonely wife oft wet a pile of cold grey stones; But when the wagon train moved on, with lifted head, And confidence in God, she turned toward setting sun, Determined fertile vales to till. Though he was dead? She went ever on, and by her side their son. Now golden wheat fields wave where once was only sage; No more does blood of hero saint stain red the trail: No savage demons over peaceful prairies rage; Nor Renegades burn wagon trains and rob the mail. God give to Utah and her faithful children, peace And courage to continue building, down the years; From everything that binds our faith give just release, Oh Blessed Father of the sons of pioneers.