The Lady Who Bakes Cakes

She said when she was small she had encountered a severe illness, and time had hung heavy on her hands in recuperation. She grew discouraged and fretful, for her family was busy at other tasks, and could not spend all their time at her bedside, and she grew lonely. One day a neighbor knocked at the door and said she had a cake for a little sick girl. The entire cake was intended for the little girl trying so hard to get well, the neighbor said. The sick child could do with it as she pleased, but perhaps she would want to share it with her family.

My friend recalled that it had been just a simple, plain white loaf cake. "In those days people didn't decorate cakes as lavishly as we do now. Indeed, we didn't have all the coloring and special candies to make cakes pretty that you find in almost every market or corner grocery store in these days. But this freshly baked cake seemed to me the most beautiful cake in the world because it was all my very own." Lying in bed and looking at the edge on the window sill, she began to think of how others had tried to tempt her to eat, and now she wanted to share with them what she had to give. "As I began to think about others, even offering them a piece of cake, I began to get stronger. Soon I was up and around the room, and then well enough to go outside to play, and return to school."

Later, when she had tried to thank the woman who had baked the cake, this wise neighbor had said, "Some day you must bake a cake for some other little sick girl, and pass along your joy in this cake." Now, many years later, a butterfly cake had cheered my young friend. The original recipient had never forgotten the incident, and now she has a happy reputation as "the lady who bakes cakes." People love to know that she is to be on the refreshment committee for club or church, for it may mean that there is a special cake to be used as a centerpiece.

There may be a club or church party when one of the prizes is a cake shaped like a lamb encircled by a candy fence. Or fresh violets and tiny pink rosebuds may have been dipped in egg white and sugar before being placed on frosting peaks to produce a cake with a fresh, colorful nosegay. The original gift of the woman who helped a little girl has blossomed into many dozens of cakes across the changing years.

Moments of happiness from the gifts of cakes have lightened the loneliness and sorrow in the loss of loved ones, and have given encouragement and comfort to the ill and the homebound. The cake baking has become a rewarding hobby, leading to rich fellowship and new friendships. It is a hobby open to all women, young and old, rich and poor, especially in this age of easy-to-prepare cake mixes. The necessary ingredient is the wish to think of others and make them happy.

Are you lonely and bored or unhappy today? Then maybe you should go into your kitchen and bake a cake for someone to enjoy.
 
The original recipient had made over 1,000 members in the Relief Society, and has served in many positions in the various auxiliaries as well. She is the mother of three children and is eighty-two years old.

It was just by chance that we saw the valley. I can't bear to think we might have missed it. My two sons and I should have taken the road going north, but we went west instead, through the little town and slowly climbed a hill for many miles out of our way. It was soon after we realized we were on the wrong road, and had started back that we came to a turn and, suddenly, below us was the valley! Gold and green and brown fields were in almost perfect squares, with blue heavens above, and the rays of the setting sun making a gauze screen through which we viewed the picture. My eighteen-year-old son stopped the car by the side of the road while my nine-year-old said with something like awe, "Mama, look down there!"

At the corners of some of the squares were farm houses nestled beneath tall, stately poplars. As we gazed with delight, I could almost hear the poplars, with arms upraised to God, whisper a supplication for those within the home they were guarding.