Evelyn Fyeldsted

Growing old, f*) Grandfather said,
was like coming to the close of a long, eventful day, a day of great blessings and many and varied y experiences.
Always there had been the need for prayers.
This was a time when the young folks were leaving to make of life a long, venturesome day for themselves, but Grandpa said their nearness would always remain, with the knowledge that they would return, if ever they were needed.

Wherever Grandpa was, there seemed to be a kind of peace,
and whenever he entered a room, there was that same quiet reassurance.
It was as if he, having lived long, had found something that we had not yet known.
Daylight was like the light of evening for Grandpa, and so he had come to rely mostly on insight.
He said there was no need for hurry or for worry,
for time was on the side of those who had lived long—a time when life was better understood.

The time had come when Grandpa could nap undisturbed, which he did quite frequently.
He would awaken always with a sense of peace,
which must have come from this deeper understanding and which seemed to have become almost a part of him.
At times he still played his violin—the violin that had made so much merriment for the people in the valley long ago.
The musicmaker of his time, who had played in such a lively fashion,
could still imagine the young people and older ones dancing the waltz and the square dances that were so beautiful at that time.
To him it could have been only yesterday.

He could be remembering the time when he was just a boy carrying water to the soldiers who were stationed at the Racky Point during the Indian Wars in Sanpete County.
Sometimes two other grandpas, two other Indian War veterans, would come to visit with him.
Grandpa would awaken and welcome them.
They would place their chairs close together.
They could not hear each other very well, but they would talk and laugh about many things.
Sometimes their talk would take a serious turn.
A sadness seemed to touch them for a little while,
but mostly they would have a good time.
When they were gone, Grandfather's quiet peace still seemed to be there,
the peace that he bequeathed to us.
 
"ae
5 haey, af 37 7 Olga Milius

I came from the sea—
from horizons far flung over tossing, billowing waves.
From a land of green rolling hills, perfumed flowers,
and softly falling rain that made the air as soft and fragrant as the blossoms it nurtured.

I crossed the ocean—a thousand miles of turbulent blue—and gray—and green,
for its colors changed with its moods, as a woman's eyes may darken with anger
or brighten with joy.
The spray of the storm on my face made me a part of the elements,
and brought me closer to God than I had ever been before.

I saw the New York skyline—the new world rising above the endless ocean,
and Liberty holding her torch on high.
I saw the great cities and the small towns of America.
I crossed her plains and her prairies, and came at last to her fabled West,
where jagged mountains cleft an azure sky.

I came to Utah.
For years I had sung, "Come, Come Ye Saints" and "O Ye Mountains High."
Now I walked where the pioneers had trod,
and saw the valley, and said, "This is the place."

And in a quiet square, in the heart of a city, I saw the temple spires,
I heard a mighty organ.
I saw a prophet, and I heard him speak—
and I was home.
 
This apron also serves as a tote bag.
It gives you service wherever you go, from Aunt Millie's parlor to Relief Society, to the beach, and even fishing with Father...
That is, if you'd rather knit or sew than fish.
When you sit for an hour or two knitting or embroidering,
you tie the apron bag around you, and your thread, thimble, yarn, and scissors
stay neat and clean and handy.
Knitting yarn stays untangled in the big pocket (the bag) in your 'lap.

If you are called to the phone, or to the kitchen to fix another sandwich, you quickly tuck your work in the bag and stand up without anything dropping to the floor, or without having to unwind yourself from your work. When you have finished your work, you merely untie the apron from your waist and tuck the strings and upper part of the apron into the pocket. Pull the drawstrings, and you are carrying a neat bag. No one would even suspect it is an apron.

This apron bag can be made from sailcloth, denim, or corduroy, or a heavy silk. It is very nice if you line it, but it is not necessary. WHAT YOU NEED: One piece of floral or other print fabric 15 inches by 32 inches. This makes the bag. You can use two smaller pieces, 15 inches by 16 inches, but you will have a seam across the bottom of the bag. You will need some plain fabric the same size as mentioned above for lining the bag. Next, you will need a piece of print fabric 7 inches by 16 inches for the apron part. This does not need a lining. Now you need two apron strings about 3 inches wide and 22 inches long, and a strip for a band 3 inches wide and 13 inches long. To make small pockets for thread, thimble, and other sewing accessories, cut a strip of the printed fabric 8 inches by 16 inches long. You will need some bias tape of matching or contrasting color for drawstrings and for trim.

TO MAKE: First, make the bag 55" x 32" by folding the 15 by 32-inch piece of material in half, right sides together and stitching up the sides as shown (figure 1). Sew the lining the same way. Now put the lining and the bag wrong sides together and turn about one-inch hem all around the top of the bag (figure 2). This makes the casing.