Mabel Harmer
Chapter 
Maureen Taggart, a librarian, goes to Britain to do genealogical research and look over an estate in Scotland to which she is joint heir. Just before leaving, she is attracted to Steve Madsen. On board the boat she befriends Diane Curran who also is a guest of the Taggarts.

Maureen stood at her bedroom window and looked out upon a world still shrouded in fog. The vanquished November sun barely outlined the pear tree, only a dozen feet away. She turned away with only the slightest shrug. The state of the weather did not matter today. She was off on an adventure. Ahead was a day in London with an attractive companion. Not only that, but she would get her first glimpse of the castle—after a fashion. No doubt Robert McPherson had put the best side forward. But, perhaps not. She had seen the work of artists who loved to paint ruins. Then, if there was time, she would ask him to take her to the National Art Museum. She had spent a couple of hours there when she was wandering about Trafalgar Square, but it would be ever so much more interesting, and certainly more instructive, to see it with an expert.

She put on her red knit suit. It not only looked warm, it was warm. Her tweed coat, purchased in England for an English winter, would give her the additional protection she would need. As she watched Diane slip into her sweater she asked, "Is the Markham menage colder—or just plain cold?"

"It isn't so bad, really. The study is small and the library can be well heated. So far, that's the best feature of the entire place. Just the same I'm wearing a cardigan on top of this pullover. Everyone tells me that by the time winter is over we'll be so used to this climate we won't know the difference."

"Yes—when winter is over," Maureen agreed.

"I wish that you were going into town with us." "Why the very idea! I wouldn't dream of it, even if I were free to go. I'm sure this is one occasion when three would definitely be a crowd."

"I'm sure I don't know why you would think so. Remember, it was Kitty who made the arrangements. At least, it was she who first suggested them." "Agreed," said Diane. "But the gentleman pursued it with such alacrity that I should still decline—even if I were free to go. Instead, I shall be poring over books so that I can inform a bride just what her financial obligations are for the wedding—who buys the flowers, etc. etc. At the same time, I shall be earning enough to pay for my own wedding some day, I hope."

"If Spring Be Late"
"So you would think. And I daresay she could if she cared to. Unless, that is, the secretaries have always done all the work."

Or it may be that she figures it as part of my training, and she may be right." Robert McPherson, who had stayed overnight in a nearby rooming house, arrived in the mid-morning to call for Maureen. Julia had waited to ride into town with them. As they settled down for the brief trip, she said, "You know I've been thinking about what Mrs. Murch said last night, and I'm going to have Mr. Edmunds look into it. He's a solicitor," she explained to Robert. "Taking a hard look at the facts of the case, we have to agree that, if she does have some money, and no survivors, it might as well go to us as to go for death duties. Then, too, we have kept her for twenty-five years, which could call for a settlement of some kind. We've been glad to do it and, what little money she has made from the sale of her afghans, we have always been more than willing that she should keep for her own use." "How did you get her in the first place?" asked Robert. "Isn't she related in any way?" "In no way whatever," Julia replied. "We had never seen nor heard of her until she showed up one day during the Blitz. She came with nothing but the clothes on her back. We found her wandering about in a daze and took her in. She has been with us ever since." "And had she no other family?" "As far as we know, there was just a daughter—Cynthia. Mrs. Murch has been so sure that Cynthia would come here that, for months, she met the train every day. Any new girl who comes to the house may be her daughter—or so she thinks. Except for that, she is perfectly normal and the best soul on earth." "Well," said Robert, "it is easy to understand how escaping from the Blitz could have upset anyone's mind, to some extent. I know, because I lost some of my family that way." "It must have been a dreadful time," said Maureen. "It is amazing that we see so few scars now. I understand that the city of London proper was almost completely destroyed." "That's right," replied Robert. "Even as late as ten years ago there was some rubble left. Let us hope and pray that it never happens again." By now they had arrived in the city. Julia bade them goodby, saying, "Have a good day. Have fun for me, too." "Thank you. We'll do that," replied Maureen smiling. Much to her surprise the fog, in the morning light, made London look almost lovely. The buildings had lost their stark gray outlines and seemed to be veiled in a silvery gold mist. The lights on the streets were wreathed in halos. "I wouldn't have believed it possible," she said. "Last night this was a dark, dense terror." "And may be again tonight," said Robert. "Back in '52 there was one that lingered on and became so dense that all traffic came to a halt and over 4000 people died in one week." "Were you here?" "No, fortunately. It is much brighter in the Highlands of Scotland, and much more comfortable merely to read about black fogs in the newspapers." "Have you always lived in Scotland?" she asked. "No, my love affair with Scotland began a year or two before that, when I went over to paint the lakes and remained to paint much of the rest of it, including your castle." In spite of the fog, there seemed to be as many people as ever rushing about. Robert took hold of her arm to guide her through the crowd. "The gallery is on a small street just off from Piccadilly Circus," he said. "It is a small gallery." They climbed some rather dingy steps to a second floor, but, inside the gallery, there was light and warmth. There were only a dozen people about, since it was still early in the day. "Most of these, no doubt," said Robert in a low voice, "are artists who have come to admire their own work, or else brought captive admirers, as I have done." "But such a willing captive," smiled Maureen. "I do hope so. I also hope for a frank and honest opinion. My paintings are over here on this south wall." Maureen went over eagerly, admitting to herself, at least, that she was more interested in a look at the castle than in the quality of the artist's work. So far, she had not even seen a snapshot. The first picture showed it rising in the morning mists within a field of heather. "Why it looks like a fairy castle!" she exclaimed. "It can't be this lovely!" "You are quite right. It can't and it isn't. This is the good side, if you know what I mean, and even this has been beautified. I have one of the bad side farther down. I even have the broken wall." The next picture was of a charming cottage. There were windows of small panes with boxes of gay flowers on the sills. There were hollyhocks growing in profusion and a gate entwined with morning-glories. "How perfectly lovely!" exclaimed Maureen. "I'm glad you think so," said Robert. "That is my home. Actually it is your home. It belongs to the estate. However, for the present I am living there. And this picture is not idealized. The cottage really looks just like that in the summer. It is the only part of the property that has been kept in any kind of repair." Moving on, he said, "Now take a look at this. Here is another side of the castle. It doesn't look to be very livable, does it?" "No," she answered. "Not unless you're a fresh air addict, which I definitely am not. Let's see the others." There were a dozen paintings in all, and Maureen could honestly admire them very much. "But, I do like the cottage best of all," she said. "So do I," he agreed quickly. "That's probably because my heart is in the cottage. It really is most charming. I hope that you can arrange to see it in the springtime." "Oh, I shall. We all plan to come during the Easter vacation. That should be just about the right time." "Yes, it should. I haven't looked at the dates. I hope that Easter comes late in April this year." "It does," said Maureen. "I shall probably be leaving to do a bit of traveling on the Continent after that." They looked at the other pictures. There were many to admire, but none that Maureen liked as well as she did Robert McPherson's. As they were leaving, an attendant handed them a list of the paintings with the prices. Maureen tucked it carefully away inside her handbag. She had already resolved to own the picture of the cottage. She would make the purchase when she came into town on Monday. They went to a small tea room close by for lunch.

It was very cozy, with a young waitress in ruffled cap and apron, looking very much as if she had just been scrubbed. The lamps on the tables were lighted against the fog outside. Maureen ordered blueberry scones and hot chocolate. The scones were flaky and so delicious that she almost longed for seconds. "What now?" asked Robert. "The day is still young and it is all yours." "I would really love to go to the National Art Museum," she replied. "I've been there for a few hours, but it is so vast that it would take days to see it all. Anyway, it would be a real treat to go there with an expert." "Thank you. I'm not sure that I can meet all the qualifications that you expect—or might wish—but I'll be glad to try. It will be a treat for me, too." They walked the short distance to Trafalgar Square and climbed the few steps into the imposing gray stone building. There were corridors leading to fascinating vistas in each direction, and Maureen turned to Robert for guidance. "We can't see it all today," he said, "nor would you want to. If you simply walk through the rooms you don't see anything well. Let's take the Dutch painters. You've seen plenty of English today, anyway. Although I must qualify that quickly. You haven't seen the kind that you will see here." "Are there no great artists today?" asked Maureen. "Who knows? It is very seldom that a generation gives just recognition to the artist or composer within his lifetime. I think it one of the great tragedies of humanity that such men as Rembrandt have died almost penniless and, later, their works have become priceless. It is also true of people in other fields and even of statesmen." "Yes, I know," she nodded. "And, speaking of Rembrandt, do let us see some of his. I am going to Amsterdam especially to see his 'Night Watch.' At any rate, I am going to see that before anything else." "Believe me, it is worth going to see. And there are several here for which I can say the same." They spent a couple of hours viewing some of the paintings, and Maureen was delighted to have the highlights explained to her—the richness of the colors, the wonderful skin tones, the varied expressions in the faces. "You must also see some of Van Dyck," said Robert, "although he is Flemish, rather than Dutch. But his portraits are justly among the most famous in the world." "If it is only for the Van Dyck beard," observed Maureen. "He certainly did well by King Charles. I trust that Charles did as well by him." By mid-afternoon Robert said, "We really should start back, much as I would like to stay here. We don't want to get caught in a black fog." "Indeed we don't," she answered quickly. "One such experience is enough for me, although you could probably find your way back all right." "No one can be sure. And I don't really know my way about London especially. We can come here again." "Oh, I do hope so," she exclaimed. "I want to spend some time at the British Museum, also. In fact, I hope to do some of my research there. I understand that they have almost endless bookshelves. It is most fortunate that I have all winter for my work." As they went outside, they were no longer greeted by the silvery glow of the morning. There was now only the promise of another black evening. People were hurrying about to avoid having to grope their way home later in the darkness. They found the train crowded, but they managed to get on and even to find a seat for Maureen. Robert bade her goodby at the door, but said that he would return later that evening to talk with them about any further arrangements at the castle. There were still a couple of hours before dinner, and Maureen settled down by the cheery fire in the living room to await the others of the family. Kitty was the first to return home, and If Spring Be Late she was bubbling over with plans for moving to Scotland. "Perhaps we should follow the lead of the Earl of Bedford and have lions roaming about the grounds," was her first suggestion. "Of course, we might have a bit of trouble getting the lions in the first place and keeping them in the second," said Maureen. "But those are small matters, I am sure." "You're not at all sure," said Kitty, "so we'll forget that one. Anyway, there may not be enough tourists to make it pay. Perhaps a better plan would be to put up a youth hostel for the people who are traveling about Scotland on foot. They could stay overnight, or as long as they wish. I understand that they don't expect much in the way of creature comforts. Some hostels allow people to stay, even if they are driving about in motor cars." "And by the same token, we could not expect much in the way of remuneration, I daresay," her father commented as he came in to join the circle by the fireside. "Probably so," Kitty agreed. "But a shilling or so a head might prove worthwhile if enough people came. Then we could sell them fruits and eggs and vegetables. I believe the more complete the ruins of the castle, the better some people would like it. More romantic, you know." "And more uncomfortable," said Maureen. "Well, we shall see. With your imagination I am sure we'll come up with something." "I hope so," said Bruce. "The Governors are taking a dim view of my prospects—or rather what they regard as my prospects for remaining at the school. They want to know at once if I plan to retire and move to Scotland, so that they can begin looking for a successor. I don't want to make any plans for a change until I have been over there—quite naturally. The facts are that one member would like very much to have me leave. I have been a trifle too modern in my methods to suit him, and he sees this as an opportunity to get in someone from the old, old school." "About 1910," said Julia from the doorway. "Don't give in an inch. It would be rather awful to have the school lose all that you have built up there." "Thank you," said her father. "You're home a trifle early, aren't you?" "Yes, I thought it best to get out of the city before the traffic was slowed down any more. And, thank goodness for the weekend, although there are signs that the fog is beginning to lift. Now, what about that school situation?" "Only that Andrew Wharton sees an excuse for getting me out—if he can. But we shan't worry about it. What did you learn at the bank, if anything?" "Mr. Edmunds went over and found out that there definitely is an account for Mrs. Murch. Of course, they wouldn't tell him how much."

After drawing interest for twenty-five years, it could be considerable. Now we have to prove that Mrs. Murch is the one who made the deposit. How do we go about that?" 

524 "T'm not sure. As I remember, she came here with nothing but the clothes on her back. She may have retrieved something from the fire. We can ask."

Butt dinner, when the family was once more gathered around the hearth he said, "Mrs. Murch, we've been thinking about your kind offer to help us restore the castle—if such is possible. Julia's employer has found out that you do, indeed, have an account in the savings department of the bank. Do you, by any chance, have a passbook?"

Mrs. Murch went on with her knitting, scarcely raising her eyes. "I brought nothing," she replied. "I was down in the tube when the Blitz came. The next morning the house was nothing but rubble. There's a bakery now where it stood. It's a very nice bakery. Sometimes I go there to see if any of my old neighbors are about. They never are."

There was silence for a few moments. Then Julia said, "Perhaps you will go into town with us on Monday. Mr. Edmunds will take you to the bank and find out what we can do to prove that the money is yours. Then, if you decide you would like to pay us something for your keep the past years, it would be rather nice."

"Oh, to be sure," said Mrs. Murch easily. "Ill never need the money—so long as I live with you—of course. But I shall not go to Scotland. I'll have to stay here in this house—just in case, you know."

"Yes, we know," said Catherine kindly. "Perhaps none of us will go to Scotland for more than just a visit. At any rate, we shall keep this place and it will be your home."

"Well, I don't see how I can run a youth hostel all by myself," said Kitty, "Some of you will have to stay and help."

"That's a long way off," said her father. "And we'll cross those bridges when we come to them. In the meantime, I can promise you this. You will not be left to run a youth hostel by yourself."

Robert McPherson arrived soon afterwards, and they all spent a pleasant hour before he bade them goodby. As he took Maureen's hand in parting, he said, "Remember we covered only the Dutch and Flemish artists at the museum. There are still the Spanish and French—not to mention the English. I shall be back soon."

"Good," replied Maureen. "Tl be looking forward to another delightful tour."

In the room later that evening, Diane said, "I think that you have made a conquest. He had a very special look for you."

"Nonsense," answered Maureen. "You're as bad as Kitty when it comes to imagination."

"Well, we shall see what we shall see. But you must admit that you find him attractive."

"Certainly. Pll admit it with no hesitancy or qualifications. And may I add—so what?"

"So, he's an eligible suitor, and you are a beautiful heiress."

"With a broken-down ruin of a castle and no money," Maureen interrupted. "Not enough to restore it, anyway. How did your day go?"

"