SPIRITUAL LIVING Lesson 89 - The Law of Tithing

Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 119)

Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, Southern Hemisphere: 

OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman views the payment

The modern revelations emphasize the need for members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to build Zion on the earth. (D&C 6:6-7.) The earliest law of the dispensation to assist in the building of Zion upon the earth was the law of consecration. (D&C 42:33-36.) When this law was placed in abeyance, the Lord revealed the law of tithing as the next method of obtaining revenue for the growth of his kingdom.

(Ibid., 105:9-10;119.) Before the law of tithing was fully revealed, the Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, in 1834, committed themselves to the principle of tithing. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts, 2d ed. Rev.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1957, Vol. 2, p. 175 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC].) When this law was made known, in 1838, at Far West, Missouri, it came in response to this supplication: "O Lord! Show unto thy servant how much thou requirest of the properties of thy people for a tithing." ([Ibid., 3:44.) At an earlier period the law of tithing was prophetically mentioned in a revelation while the law of consecration was in force. The Lord said that it was "a day of sacrifice, and a day for the tithing of my people..." (D&C 64:23.) ([Ibid., 64:24; Hyrum M. Smith and Janne M. Sjodahl, Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, rev. Ed.; Salt Lake City: The Deseret Book Company, 1957, p. 394.) A LESSER LAW The law of tithing became a schoolmaster to bring the members of the Church to the greater law of consecration, as the law of Moses anciently was the lesser law to bring ancient Israel to the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. (Melvin J. Ballard, Conference Report, , pp. 50-51.) Although a law may be thought of as lesser, it does not follow that the lesser of the two laws does not require obedience. In fact, all of God's laws are everlasting or eternal in the same way that the law of tithing is declared to be "a standard law unto them forever..." (D&C 119:4.) All laws remain forever, yet they may not all be in force at the same time, some serving as preparation to the living of other laws. AN ETERNAL INHERITANCE The faithful saint lays claim to an inheritance when the earth is redeemed and sanctified. (D&C 88:19-22.) Those who obey the law of tithing are acquiring an inheritance on the celestialized earth. Malachi said that those whose names are found in the book of remembrance are those "that feared the Lord, and that thought upon his name. And they shall be mine in that day when I make up my jewels." (Malachi 3:16-18.) Lesson Department THE LAW OF TITHING In answer to the prayer as to what constitutes a tithe, the Lord revealed that the members of the Church should pay "one-tenth of all their interest annually." (D&C 119:4.) As Elder Howard W. Hunter has said: Interest means profit, compensation, increase. It is the wage of one employed, the profit from the operation of a business, the increase of one who grows or produces, or the income to a person from any other source... (Howard W. Hunter, Conference Report, , p. 35.) When the law of tithing was received, the Lord required that his saints should begin their tithing with giving all of their surplus property to the Church, and thereafter to pay one-tenth on their income. (D&C 119:1.) A GIFT OR AN OBLIGATION? Whether or not tithing is a gift or an obligation may be answered with the reply that since the law is a commandment then it is obligatory upon all members of the Church who receive an income to pay tithing. If tithing were a gift, the saint would not be required to surrender the tithe, but he could pay it whenever he desired or not pay it at all. "Verily, thus saith the Lord, I require... One-tenth of all their interest annually" (Ibid., 119:1, 4.) Tithing is, however, a voluntary offering because the Lord does not compel his people to live a commandment. This law is no different from the law of the Sabbath or any of the laws of the gospel. Each person decides whether or not he wants the blessing arising from obedience to the law. (Ibid., 130:20-21.) DEBTS AND TITHING The Old Testament Prophet Malachi expressed the truth that when a person withheld the tithe from the Lord, he was robbing him. Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say, Wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings. Ye are cursed with a curse: for ye have robbed me, even this whole nation. (Malachi 3:8-9.) Expressed in the language of Elder Howard W. Hunter, we learn the following: The Lord has established the law of tithing, and because it is his law, it becomes our obligation to observe it if we love him and have a desire to keep his commandments and receive his blessings. In this way it becomes a debt. The man who doesn't pay his tithing because he is in debt should ask himself if he is not also in debt to the Lord. The Master said: "But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness: and all these things shall be added unto you." (Matthew 6:33.) We can't walk east and west at the same time. We can't serve both God and mammon. The man who rejects the law of the tithe is the man who has not given it a fair try. Of course it costs something. It takes work and thought and effort to live any of the laws of the gospel or any of its principles. (Conference Report, , p. 35.) Class Discussion Elder Hunter suggests that the person in debt should pay his tithing. What reasons would you give for this counsel? BEWARE OF FALSE TEACHING What would you do if you were told by a good member of the Church that although you have an income from wages, rent, and so forth, you should not pay your tithing? This is the way this question was solved by the widowed mother of President Joseph F. Smith when he was but a boy. When she arrived at the tithing office with a load of potatoes as her tithing, the clerk chided her for paying her tithing. Whereupon she said: "William, you ought to be ashamed of yourself. Would you deny me a blessing? If I did not pay my tithing, I should expect the Lord to withhold his blessings from me. I pay my tithing, not only because it is a law of God, but because I expect a blessing by doing it. By keeping this and other laws, I expect to prosper, and to be able to provide for my family." In relating this story, President Smith testified that she had an abundance to support her family and that her family never lacked. Then he said: "That widow had her name recorded in the book of the law of the Lord..." (Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, tenth edition, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1956, pp. 228-229.) RECORDS IN HEAVEN The Prophet Joseph Smith said that "Our acts are recorded, and at a future day they will be laid before us..." (DHC 2:26.) The Church maintains an accurate record of the tithing paid by the members.

Not long after the law of consecration was revealed, the Lord made known that a general Church record of all things that transpired in Zion should be made. The names of those who were not diligent were not to be recorded with the faithful. It was said that the "book of the law of God" (D&C 85:5) would not contain the names of this class. (D&C 85:1-5.) The faithful, on the other hand, were promised that they should have their names recorded in the "Lamb's book of life." (Revelation 21:27; D&C 128:7.) This record is maintained in the heavens and contains the names of those who have kept the commandments, including the law of tithing. Members of the Church should know that on many occasions during their lives they are judged by their bishops to receive blessings the Church may bestow upon them. The principle of tithing is a measure, with other commandments, to determine a person's worthiness.

Class Discussion
Why do you think that the Lord requires that a person pay his tithing in order to receive a temple recommend?

Malachi's words have profound meaning for today. (Malachi 3:8-18.) His condemnation of the people for their having robbed God in their tithes and offerings reminds one of Elder Howard W. Hunter's characterization of the non-tithe payer in these words:...
In larceny there is an unlawful acquisition of the property, while in embezzlement the property which belongs to another is acquired lawfully and then fraudulently converted to the possessor's use. In order to memorize these distinctions [while in law school], I pictured in my mind, to represent larceny, a masked burglar, sneaking about under the cover of darkness, taking that which was not his. To represent the theory of embezzlement I thought of a non-tithepayer. The Lord's share came into his hands lawfully, but he misappropriated it to his own use. This seems to be the accusation of Malachi. (Conference Report, , p. 34.)

The Lord has said that every man is only a steward over his earthly possessions, for all that exists belongs to the Lord. (D&C 104:13-14.) One may think of the tithe as the payment of rent for the air one breathes, the clothes one wears, or the food he eats; in fact, for all earthly possessions.

The challenge of the law of tithing is expressed in these words: "... Prove me now herewith, saith the Lord. Of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it." (Malachi 3:10.) "Prove me" by living my law and see the results!

Elder James E. Talmage expressed the point that since man has a need for the material things of the earth to support himself and family, the Lord has promised that the means of acquiring these things are available, but one's life may not be one of uniform increase in substance and possessions. One pays the rental in accordance with the amount of increase received during a given year. As more is received then more is expected, but if less is received, then less is expected. Consequently, all the faithful, the poor or the rich, may be cease stockholders in the great corporation of God. (James E. Talmage, Articles of Faith, Forty-seventh Edition; Salt Lake City, p. 527-528.)

Elder Melvin J. Ballard observed that one should not pay his tithing with the hope that he will be immediately benefited financially. He said the following:
I have listened to the testimonies of thousands in the mission field, converts to the Church, who have had faith in this law, and who have paid their tithing, and the Lord has manifested His good pleasure towards them by bringing a material increase that greatly relieved them of distresses that were pressing upon them. Do I mean to say that a man who has an income of a hundred dollars and pays ten dollars of it into the Church for the Lord's work, can make the ninety dollars go as far as the hundred? Yes, by wisely spending it, sometimes a good deal farther. I have observed it is not brains nor strength that brings material prosperity altogether. It is simply doing the right thing at the right time that leads on to success. (The Deseret News, December 17, 1927, p. V.)

Class Discussion
How may the payment of tithing lead to wise planning?

One of the stirring episodes in Church history was presented to the Church by film under the title "Windows of Heaven." The event occurred in the year 1899 when President Lorenzo Snow received the inspiration to take many of the General Authorities to St. George, Utah, to hold conference. While there he received a revelation on tithing. The saints in that area were discouraged because a severe drought had made it virtually impossible for them to plant their crops. The Church was also heavily in debt.

During one of the conference meetings, the Lord revealed to the President of the Church the means by which the people and the Church might be blessed. This account is given of that experience:
God manifested to him there and then not only the purpose of the call to visit the Saints in the South. He told them that he could see, as he had never realized before, how the law of tithing had been neglected by the people, also that the Saints, themselves, were heavily in debt, as well as the Church, and now through strict obedience to this law—the paying of a full and honest tithing—not only would the Church be relieved of its great indebtedness, but through the blessings of the Lord this would also be the means of freeing the Latter-day Saints from their individual obligations, and they would become a prosperous people. (The Church News, January 20, 1934, p. 4.)

Subsequently, events proved that the promise of the Lord through President Snow was literally fulfilled in behalf of the members of the Church who accepted the Lord's challenge, and because of their acceptance of the law of tithing the Church came out of financial bondage. The prosperity of the saints and the accomplishments of the Church have resulted because of obedience to the law of tithing and all other commandments.

Class Discussion
Faith in and practice of the Lord's commandments bring happiness and prosperity.

A person who has covenanted with the Lord in baptism and then fails to pay his tithing becomes spiritually sick. One of the sure signs of weakened faith and loss of spirituality is due to this cause. The neglect of one principle of the gospel invariably causes neglect in other principles. (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, 15:163.)

A purpose of the law of the tithe is that a person may receive soul growth from the practice. The law, faithfully observed, has the effect of uprooting selfishness and demonstrating loyalty to the kingdom of God. It testifies to the fact that one desires to become one with the Lord in working for his purposes on earth and in heaven.

BUILD THE KINGDOM In addition to the growth of spirituality received by the tithepayer, the Lord's work prospers through the revenue from the tithing. The progress of the Church in the erection of meetinghouses, temples, welfare programs, missionary work, and many other programs are provided from the tithes of the people. The dedicated Latter-day Saint works for the building of the kingdom of God through the payment of tithing.

The Latter-day Saint who obeys the law of tithing is living a spiritual law _ necessary for a successful life. Although tithing funds are used for the construction of material things, as buildings, nonetheless, the use made of those structures, such as a temple or meeting place, is for spiritual purposes. Not only is the tithepayer contributing to his own spiritual welfare, but also to the welfare of his fellow Church members. The Lord has said that obedience to this law sanctifies the land of Zion unto him and unto us. (D&C 119:6.) In fact, it is revealed that Zion is those who keep the commandments, including the law of tithing. Since the purpose of the members of the Church is to build Zion on the earth, it is impossible to fulfill this purpose without making a contribution of one's means by which revenue is received to further the Lord's work.

The law of tithing has been called the law of inheritance. He who desires to receive a celestial inheritance must give full obedience to gospel requirements. There is no success in this life that does not include preparation for life eternal with the blessings of perpetual posterity in the celestial kingdom.

President Joseph F. Smith has emphasized the importance of the law of tithing in the following statement: By this principle the loyalty of the people of this Church shall be put to the test. By this principle it shall be known who is for the kingdom of God and who is against it. By this principle it shall be seen whose hearts are set on doing the will of God and keeping His commandments, thereby _ sanctifying the land of Zion unto God, and who are opposed to this principle and have cut themselves off from the blessings of Zion... (Conference Report, , p. 47.)