[Vol22 | August 1935 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Guides in Elliott]

Guides in Buying Textiles HOW TO RECOGNIZE THE GOODS DESIRED By Vilate Elliott III ONE of the household buyer's most perplexing problems is that of judging or evaluating the qualities of the goods which affect its usefulness and discovering which goods are best in proportion to price.
Beyond inspection, experience, and testing, the household buyer in evaluating quality may rely on general market aids such as the repute of the dealer, the advice of clerks, or price. Or she may depend on advertisements or trademarks, or utilize standards or labels wherever they are available.
Some clerks are able and willing to assist the household buyer.
Others wilfully mislead, or are no more expert than the buyer in judging quality.
Many household buyers rely on price as a guide to quality.
Such reliance is founded on the belief that cost of production determines price, that better quality costs more, consequently it has a higher price. It would be much safer for the household buyer to assume that the seller is interested in getting as much as he can for his goods whether quality is superior or inferior and that, unless she can recognize quality, the price may be high even though quality is very low. A high price may be asked in order to appeal to a certain income group.
Some people, for example, consider that they can afford $10 or $12 shoes.
They look on that amount as a measure of quality.
Anything less would not be considered.
Consequently some retailers may have to mark up their prices in order to make sales.
Inferior goods are sometimes disposed of in this way. If goods are described in standard terms the household buyer may more readily discover satisfactory goods.
Fictitious variety will disappear.
Goods can be compared, and so she is more likely to get the best value for her money. The buyer will be able to judge quality independently; she will not have to rely on repute of the dealer or on brand name or price. The use of standards or labels brings other advantages.
Price competition is keener.
Chase describes the advantages of standards. "The buyer knows exactly what he is getting; the manufacturer knows exactly what he has to produce.
Competition must then descend from the cloudy heights of sales appeals and mysticism generally, to just one factor—price." But it is a common belief that the good is distinguished from the poor by price, that quality or general excellence is in proportion to the price.
This may or may not be true,—there are many other factors that determine price, supply and demand, the style or fashion, the house from which it was purchased, and numerous other points.
There are people who will not buy unless the price is sufficiently high to justify confidence in its having quality. ''When Bayer's patent for aspirin ran out, a well-known American firm of manufacturing chemists introduced its own make of aspirin. Bayer's aspirin was selling for from 79c to $1.00 per hundred. The rival product was distributed to retail stores at a price which permitted them to sell it for 39c per one hundred 482 but it would not sell, the stores were forced to increase the retail price before the public would have any faith in the new product." CASH AND CREDIT THE human race has an extraordinary capacity for getting along without things which it believes it needs; it also has an equally extraordinary appetite for things where it is under no restraint. Cash—at least the parting with cash or the lack of cash—provides restraint. It is said a man will order a more elaborate dinner at his club, where he can sign the check and not pay until the end of the month, than he will in a restaurant, where he must pay the waiter before he gets up from the table. The man may be just as certain to pay his club bill promptly as he is to pay the hotel waiter—but somehow there is a difference. The habit of paying cash is a silent partner that is a real factor in the success of many a home. Furthermore, in trading with cash stores there is a definite saving on prices.
Stores which allow credit to any of their customers must fix their prices to cover the cost of extending credit. However, the charge account has certain advantages. It makes unnecessary the carrying of large sums of money, as well as waiting for change; the charge account identifies the shopper as an established customer of the store; it simplifies matters when purchases are being returned for exchange or refund. But putting your shopping on a cash basis exerts a healthy restraint against over buying. SHEETS AND PILLOWCASES WHEN you buy sheets and pillowcases, what are your guides? Do you put price or quality first? And how do you judge quality?
Sheets and pillowcases are RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE standard household cottons; you have a right to expect service from them. But their length of life depends on the quality of the fabric as well as the care you give them. As an aid to consumers in judging the quality of sheets and pillowcases on the retail counter, some manufacturers are putting labels on their goods. To be ideal such a label should give the thread count, tensile strength, weight, and amount of sizing. It should also give the length and width and tell whether the sheet is a first or second, also if the material is pre-shrunk. If you are buying sheeting by the yard, ravel out a thread and break it, and note its strength.
Untwist the fibers, see if they are short and fuzzy, fibers vary from one-half inch to one and one-half inches, your sheet should be made of fibers at least one inch long. The better grades of sheeting are made of medium or long stapled cotton. The thread count of a fabric is the number of yarns per inch both warp and filling; for example, a 72 by 68 thread count means 72 warp yarns per inch and 68 filling yarns per inch. A good sheet has a close firm even weave. You can get some idea of the evenness of the threads by holding it between yourself and a strong light and noting how the warp and filling threads look.
Another indication of wearing quality in a fabric is its tensile strength, the private consumer has no way of measuring its tensile strength but other factors will help to note this quality. If a sheet has defects in the yarn and the weave it is a "second" and should be so labeled. It should be sold at a lower price than a first.
These flaws are the weakest part of the sheet.
Some flaws affect only the appearance and not the wearing quality. If you know you are buying a second and are sure the defects GUIDES IN BUYING are not serious it may be an economical purchase..
Sizing is the starch and other materials used in manufacture to give sheeting a smooth finish.
Some sizing is necessary on the warp yarns to keep them from breaking in the loom. "Pure finish" means the minimum amount of sizing. "No weighting" indicates that no heavy materials, such as china clay, were used. The weight of a sheet minus the sizing is a measure of the amount of cotton you are buying.
There are good, durable sheets made in many different weights. Low weight may mean less wear.
Sheets that are very light in weight and loosely woven always wrinkle, are uncomfortable to sleep on and do not look well on the bed. On the other hand too heavy sheets are cumbersome to handie, and if you are paying to have your laundry done by the pound, they run up the laundry bill and are not economical in the end.
They are also more difficult to launder at home. On a high quality sheet the hems are closed at the ends and evenly turned. The stitching is fine and even and is fastened securely, if they are hemstitched the work is done neatly and durably.
Hemstitched hems tear off more easily.
Than stitched ones.
Know the size of sheet before you buy.
Remember the length labeled on a sheet is before hemming, then in all probability the sheet will shrink some even though it is marked preshrunk, also notice if the label is marked “torn" length, if it is, the sheet was torn with the thread of the goods, and the sheet will stay true after washing and have straight flat hems. For general household use sheets should be from 99-108 inches long, torn length; for myself I prefer the 108 inch length, this will allow "a generous tuck-in and an ample fold
TEXTILES 483 over the top bedding.
This fold is necessary, it protects the quilts and blankets from soil and saves laundry bills, the width of sheets for double beds should be 81-90 inches. A sheet that is too small to be tucked in well under the mattress is a poor investment, as it does not hold firmly in place. If it is too short it will not fold down over the bedding thoroughly.
Again it should not be too narrow or the selvage edges will be curled and wrinkled each morning.
Your sheet after hemming and laundering will probably measure 8 or 9 inches shorter than the torn length as that amount is taken up in hems and shrinkage for even though it is marked pre-shrunk it will shrink some.
When you buy sheets you select them according to your household needs, your preferences, and your pocket-book. You may want heavy durable muslin to withstand the wear and tear of romping boys or you may be looking for the softest.
Smoothest fabric you can afford.
Whatever you want, you need definite facts as a guide to buying. A good illustration of the kind of facts you need is furnished by the government's specification for the sheets it buys.
These are minimum specifications drawn up to meet the requirements of a government hospital or some specific use.
They may not descrihe the type of sheet you want, but they suggest the kind of information that should be furnished you on the labels of the sheets you see in the stores.
Practically all the tests for quality in sheets hold good also for pillowcases.
Pillowcases are in fact made of sheeting woven in tubular form or in narrow widths.
Pillowcase tubing is easier to make up, and does away with the possibility of a puckered seam: Also with tubular casing, you can 484 rip the end seam and remake the case so that the hardest wear comes in a new place, and this gives longer service. As with sheets the fabric for pillowcases should be torn, not cut, and the hems turned evenly so they will iron flat. The stitching should also be well done and even. It is always wise to have the case a little larger around than the pillow. Too tight cases are under a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE strain when the pillow is flattened down and soon break. The Federal specifications for pillowcases call for the same weight, count of threads and breaking strength as for sheets. The hems are three inches wide, straight and flat. A good average width is 42 inches, the length is a matter of personal preference, however a yard is a good length, this gives a three inch hem.