[Vol22 | August 1935 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Growing Romney]

Growing Old Beautifully By Artemesia Romney
Yet in the heart of every mother there is a burning desire to appear beautiful, in spirit and mind and body, to her husband and children and_ loved ones. I believe every mother experiences one of the deepest thrills of motherhood when her tiny boy or girl lisps a few words which tell her that he thinks she is "beautiful." But every mother is aware that with the advancing years she must inevitably lose her physical charms. Every woman knows that she must face the problem of growing old, so she asks, "How can I grow old beautifully and wisely?" One author has said, "To know how to grow old is the master work of wisdom, and one of the most difficult chapters in the art of living."
THE Relief Society Organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints points the way, and has given us a perfect plan to follow if we would grow old beautifully and wisely. For growing old beautifully means beauty through the development of spirit and soul. The Relief Society plan teaches and idealizes service, unselfishness, intelligence, culture, education, self-sacrifice, charity unbounded, love, forgiveness, cooperation, spirituality and countless other attributes which, if adhered to, lend beauty to soul and body. This organization chooses the best from the maze of this world's knowledge, and plans it for our use. If we will follow where this knowledge leads we will find our minds unfolding as beautiful flowers grow and unfold in a garden. For proper development the garden of our minds must be fed sunshine and moisture, and the tiny sprouts of our knowledge must be well cared for and tended. We must always remember that the weeds of gossiping idleness can so easily grow until they have choked the flowers and the beauty of our garden is lost. If we will but live intelligently and serenely our life's garden will be filled with flowers of unselfishness and inspiration and the meaning of this author's words will be made clear. "Old age is the time for learning the relationship of the past and present and future. It is the decorative age when, like the autumn leaves, life may take on its glory." A woman at the age of eighty years attracted everyone she met by her beauty and cheerful disposition. She was visited by many children, young people and old people who came to talk to her. One day she was asked by one of the visitors how she managed to keep so young and beautiful after such a long and strenuous life. She replied, "When I was young I was privileged to visit an Art Gallery in France and saw there the portrait of a beautiful woman. I thought, "What a marvelous piece of art, and how wonderful it would be to be able to do a piece of work like that.' But I knew that I could never accomplish such a feat, so I said to myself, 'I'll live a life so that when I grow old I'll be beautiful in mind and spirit and people will love to come and visit me and look at me."' May the ideals of our Relief Society Organization inspire in us a desire to grow old as wisely and successfully as the master painting of fame inspired the woman of Paris.