[Vol22 | August 1935 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Eluding the Tragedy of Parry]

THE GRAND CANYON Zion Studio
The Relief Society Magazine
Vol, XXII AUGUST, 1935 No 8
Eluding the Tragedy of Old Age By Edwin F. Parry
WITH many people old age is a tragedy. Naturally, advancing age brings infirmities that may not be overcome and have to be endured. These infirmities lessen the earning powers of the individual, and financial troubles increase his distress. But these are not all the afflictions that confront one when growing old. Many there are who have never conquered their childish fits of bad temper and irritability. Because of this their ill-natured disposition is augmented with the years, and they become unbearable to their families and near friends, and also to themselves. These causes, or either of them serve to make old age unpleasant to endure.
FORTUNATELY, the calamity of old age may be minimized if precautions are taken early enough in life.
Observance of the Word of Wisdom—taking proper care of the body—will insure a degree of health throughout life.
Saving and laying aside means earned in early life may help with financial problems. Self-mastery and the cultivation of a pleasing personality will enable one to grow old gracefully, free from self-inflicted annoyances.
Among other means of warding off the calamities of age is the acquiring of a hobby, or taking up some study to employ the mind during spare time for with many the tragedy of age is the lack of something to do.
Some years ago a retired mechanic in Salt Lake City made this remark: "I find it hard to employ my time each day. I read till my eyes are weary, then I take a stroll and walk till my feet and limbs are tired; and still the day is far from its close!
What else I can do to occupy the time except to occasionally converse with friends, I am at a loss to discover."
This man's family had grown up and married and moved away. His wife had departed this life and he was alone. He had means to supply his wants, and lived at a boarding house. His health was good, and he had been accustomed to active service at his trade up to the time of his retirement. Now he had no responsibility and no work—no chores even about the home.
Once he was a man of cheerful disposition; but now he was despondent.
Life was a burden to him. In past years he had never prepared for old age. But on the suggestion of a friend he found something to occupy his time in a most agreeable way, and the more he did the greater was his joy. He engaged in temple work and became a regular worker on the days when the temple was open.
What a glorious blessing it is that people in our Church can engage in such pleasant activity to keep themselves occupied! If such work as is performed in the house of the Lord were of benefit only to those who participate, it would be of much value because of the joy it affords them; but that is only incidental. The real, unselfish object attained— that of service to others in need— is of far greater import.
Another incident might be mentioned.
Though similar to the above, it is a sadder one. It is the case of a railway man retired on a pension. He lives with his family, and while he is not lonesome he is very restless, and knows no remedy for his ailment. He is without a hobby, cares but little for reading, is not spiritual-minded, does not attend religious meetings. He walks and rides about, sometimes taking excursions from his home and visits friends; yet this is not enough to keep him contented. His condition is really alarming and gives his wife much concern. It is the result of neglecting to cultivate studious habits and give attention to religious obligations in his youth.
Some people, to pass the time, resort to card-playing. No man or woman of our Church need do this.
There are Church activities for all ages of both sexes. Men can find uplifting work in their priesthood
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
callings, and women in the Relief Society and other organizations. This is another evidence that the Church is equal to the task of bringing salvation to its members, both temporally and eternally. Women are more _ resourceful than men in the matter of finding something to employ their minds and hands. Being more in the home, they have acquired habits of industry of a varied character. To avert the tragedy of old age one ought to look ahead in early life and prepare for the inevitable handicaps of later years. A sense of humor is an admirable help to anyone when troubles overtake him. Those who do not possess this gift may acquire it by cultivation. Let them look for the funny side of their misfortunes and laugh at them. They need not take their trials so seriously, for they may be only momentary; and often they are just imaginary. Two women were working side by side in a factory where they were employed. Some apparently disagreeable work fell to their lot. Upon viewing it, one woman broke down and sobbed. The other laughed. Both attacked the job and the good-nature of the one gave courage to the other and soon the trouble was at an end. Whether one's old age is happy or tragic depends largely upon himself and the preparation he has made to meet it.
NON-SMOKING TOURISTS PLEASE TAKE NOTE!
Members of the state legislature of North Dakota were desirous of repealing the law of the state which forbids smoking in restaurants and places where food is served, but were unsuccessful in their attempt. An exchange states that "brave Governor Walter Welford vetoed the bill and there is one state where one is not annoyed with tobacco smoke while eating." —The Union Signal.