[Vol22 | August 1935 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Ownership Livingston]

Ownership By Helen M, Livingston The owner of the grand estate Walked out and said, "These lands are mine." With pomp, he pointed out their width, Then proudly took his guests to dine. His gardener watched the guests go past, Then softly singing took his spade. He viewed the gentle flower-crest slopes And sensed the harmony they made. He gathered peace from lily rows, He plucked delight from violet hills. Found sweet serenity in trees. And planted joy with daffodils. The owner of the vast estate Walked out and said, "Behold my lands." And he had never turned soft sod, Nor felt moist loam against his hands.
Notes
From the Field 
By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary Cassia Stake HE courage, interest and fine community spirit of our Stake Presidents is again in evidence in the splendid work accomplished by the Cassia Stake. Sister Effie H. Walker, the Relief Society Stake President, is responsible for the very fine account of the work which was done during the latter part of last year. For a number of months the people of Oakley had been without a resident physician. The nearest medical aid was to be had in Burley, more than twenty miles away. The former physician had cooperated very splendidly with the Relief Society in the health work, so that his departure from the community was felt as a distinct loss. However, some of the Priesthood Authorities, together with the Relief Society, devised a plan by which they could give to the people of the community the greatly needed medical service. The wheat interest money held by the Relief Society of the stake furnished the source of revenue for the project, and a minimum charge was made to the people who could afford to pay something. Dr. David Rees, an eye, ear, nose and throat specialist, arranged to come from Twin Falls at regular intervals and hold a clinic. The home of one of the Ward Presidents was used as a temporary hospital, where beds and everything necessary to do the operating work most successfully, were provided, and nurses were in attendance.
There were 130 operations, in addition to many cases of medical advice and consultation. It was an enormous saving in health to the community. Sister Walker has this to say of Dr. Rees, who has now gone to Australia, to assume the Presidency of tlic Australian Mission: "Dr. And Sister Rees have been attended by such a sweet spirit, as have also those others who have assisted, that it has been one of the most joyous experiences we have had in our Relief Society work." The gratitude, love and prayers of the people go with Brother and Sister Rees. Alberta Stake. IN spite of the difficulties which the Alberta Stake has had to encounter, it has to its credit an enviable record of activities.
During the time when the price of wool was very low, a quilt drive was made throughout the Stake, and 672 quilts filled with wool were made.
Many of these were for the benefit of the organization, while the others were placed in individual homes.
Most of the wool was donated or obtained from some exchange, so that these very excellent quilts were obtained at a minimum cost. The result of the drive was a great increase in the spirit of friendship and cooperation.
During the spring and summer much of the time in the Work and Business Department in all the organizations was devoted to preparation for the general stake demonstration of work which was held at the time of the conference-convention. The display of the many varieties of handwork made by the sisters was very wonderful. In connection with the demonstration, a sale of secondhand goods was conducted, and through this much of the used clothing was obtained at a very small fee. The articles were sold to those who 502 could use them, and the surplus was distributed to help the needy. The Fall Work ard Business days were devoted to preparation for the Christmas season. The aim of the organization was to see that no child in any of the wards or districts would be left without a gift or some special Christmas cheer.
Many of the officers were thrilled with joy at the result of their labors. During January one outstanding project of the work was the preparation of a medicine kit. For this special purpose cases were made of galvanized tin that could stand the test of all kinds of weather without injury to the contents. The cases were 9x10x13 inches, and contained four compartments suited to the contents. The following is a list of the contents of each kit: hot water bottle with syringe attachments; sheets and pillow cases; clinical thermometer, medicine dropper; absorbent cotton; adhesive plaster; tannic acid; gauze; mercurochrome; milk of magnesia; iodine; mentholatum; lysol; mustard; eucalyptus; aspirin tablets; olive oil; boracic acid; castor oil; turpentine; salts; glycerine; carbolic acid. The bed pan is kept in a separate oilcloth bag. On the inside of the lid over the hot water bottle case, is written out and pasted the rules and regulations regarding the handling of the kit.
When all preparations were completed the local doctor consented to attend the Stake and Local Officers' Meeting and give a lecture on the use of all the contents of the kit.
From this lecture a letter of instructions was written and placed in each kit.
This is kept under lock and key, and the President of each organization is held responsible for its care. The kits are prepared and maintained from the interest on the wheat money which has been pooled, and is supervised by the Stake. The reports RELIEF SOCIETY from this project are very gratifying. The necessity for the medicine kit will be easily understood when it is realized that there are no doctors or drug stores in the little out-of-town districts.
Everyone is welcome to the use of the kit so long as he observes the regulations for the use of it.
Where people can afford to pay for the use of the medicine a small fee is charged, otherwise the use is given without cost. In the preparation of the medicine kit a delegation from the Relief Society met with the local hospital board, and made arrangements to procure the medicines through the hospital, thus getting them at a greatly reduced price. Miss Norma Snow, matron of the hospital, assisted greatly in measuring and preparing the medicines. A special Visiting Teachers' Convention was held in the spring. The organizations were divided into five districts and three stake members visited each district. The aim was to put the work over in a way to renew the spirit of enthusiasm, to inspire greater diligence, and a better preparation of the teachers' work. The result of these conventions has been shown in the increased efficiency of the teachers. Sister Jacobs writes: "We are also proud of our stake traveling library. As a small beginning we have in circulation one hundred and sixty books.
These are divided into twelve strong canvas bags with a leather strap which is attached in several places and buckled around the center of the bag, thus keeping them tightly closed from inclement weather while on their travels around the Stake. We have recently purchased more books and expect to increase the library from time to time as means will permit. We have had for our Relief Society slogan for several years: 'We stand for better homes through the increase of wholesome, intelligent reading,' and our desire is to make this slogan possible in the homes of all our women."
"The project work given to us by the General Board this year fits so nicely into our slogan and we feel that it is going to be an excellent help in stimulating our sisters to renew their knowledge and become better acquainted with the work of the Lord. If we consider this work from only one standpoint, and that is, that it will qualify our boys and girls for the mission field when they have grown to maturity, we shall feel amply repaid for the time and energy we have put into it. Speaking for our Stake, we are delighted with the Project."