[Vol22 | August 1935 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: A Banner for Jacobsen]

Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. A Banner for Three By Virginia B. Jacobsen VER since she could remember, FE, Sylvia had wanted white slippers. She had cried when she was five because her parents bought "sensible black' instead of white.
Perhaps if her childish fancy had been realized, she would not feel, now, that each pair of black she was forced to buy for two year old Gloria was slowly chaining down the dancing feet of her babe.
White shoes were more to Sylvia than mere shoes.
They were a symbol of béauty and success. If she and Bill had only themselves and Gloria to take care of, it would have been different, but having to provide for Bill's widowed mother and two younger sisters necessitated strict economy.
White shoes could not be included in.
Such an overstrained budget.
With their salary cut in half, it was difficult to keep up the appearance which Bill's position demanded. But that was her job and she gloried in it. No one would dream that her clever clothes were creations of her own ingenious making.
Sylvia found real joy in all she did. To help her ambitious husband, for Bill was so appreciative of her splendid management of their income. While Sylvia sat waiting for the clerk to bring new shoes to try on little Gloria, the old desire for white tempted her, as it always did. Gloria's dainty clothes called so plainly for white.
They were only fifty cents more than the black, but— fifty cents would buy Gloria a new pair of stockings or material for a dress. Her practical mind fought against the desire in her heart. She made a mental calculation of the money in her purse.
Exactly three dollars. The white shoes were two-ninety-five.
That would not even leave enough for carfare home. She could walk, it was worth it.
Then she thought of the long blocks ahead. How foolish! Of course, she would be sensible and take the black. It always ended this way. 'Suddenly, she became aware of the delicate fragrance of costly perfume, as a beautifully dressed woman and small boy passed to take seats across the aisle.
Sylvia could not help watching the handsome child so perfectly attired from head to foot in spotless white.
There was something disturbingly familiar in the face of the little boy.
Sylvia glanced at the mother.
Something cold suddenly gripped her heart. All the old jealousy, which she thought she had buried with the past, swept over her again, as she recognized June Forrester, the girl who had tried to lure Bill away from her.
June had nearly accomplished her purpose, but Sylvia's patient love and surprising cleverness had won out after a bitter struggle against June and her wealth. All her life June had wrested from life every bounty it offered, everything but the thing she desired most, Bill's love. She might have won him, if she had not foolishly hinted what her dowry would mean to him. Indignant, Bill had replied that his success in life would not depend upon the gift of any woman. All he asked was a wife who was willing to live on what he could earn. One who would help him climb.
With wounded pride, he came back to the sympathetic understanding he always found in Sylvia, repentant for having strayed away. The gardenia, nestling against the A BANNER FOR THREE sheen of June's black furs, filled Sylvia with a burning desire to show June that Bill's success had not depended upon a dowry. She glanced at the child across the aisle.
White shoes on June's little son, and she, Sylvia was buying black for Bill's daughter. She almost laughed at the irony of it. A pair of baby shoes, such a trifling matter, but she knew how important it would be in the squeamish mind of the other woman. On this one point alone, June would think Billa pitiful failure, and Sylvia could not stand that. She knew by instinct that June had seen her, and was wondering about Bill. It seemed to Sylvia that his pride was at stake. She could not fail him at a time like this. To her belonged the joyous duty of carrying their banner through the fire of another woman's glance. Their Banner—a pair of little white shoes.
Even if they were impractical, what a small price to pay for pride. It wasn't the shoes, but what they stood for that counted. 499
The clerk returned with two pairs of little shoes, one white, one black. Holding them out, he asked, "Which do you prefer, Madam?" Sylvia hesitated for one imperceptible moment, then replied, "Try the white shoes, please." The clerk tied the laces, then lifted the beaming Gloria down to parade before them. The unusual beauty of the shoes caught the fancy of the radiant child. Bending over she patted them lovingly. "Pwity, Muddo, Pwity," lisped Gloria. Sylvia, looking first at the little white shoes, then down at her purse, glanced across at June. Their eyes met. They nodded, and a look of triumphant determination lighted Sylvia's face. She would keep their banner flying. Opening her purse with as much assurance as lf it held hundreds, she took out the three dollars. Handing them to the clerk, she said, "Those shoes will do. She will wear them."
BAD NEWS FOR WOMEN SMOKERS
The growing popularity of smoking among women is responsible for an increase of cancer of the mouth, says Dr. Walter Gray Crump, professor of surgery for Flower Hospital, New York City, and an authority on cancer research. Dr. Crump, speaking at the annual convention of the American Institute of Homeopathy, the first week in June, explained that a few years ago cancer of the mouth among women was unknown but that today it is equally common among both sexes. Hot foods and drinks are the chief cause of cancer of the stomach, representing one-third of all cancers, he said, and he also criticized tight corsets and other underclothing as causes of cancer. —The Union Signal.