[Vol22 | August 1935 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Think Kleinman]

West 57th Street, New York City, N. Y. Think Twice (A Sonnet) By Bertha A. Kleinman If you must tell another of his fault, Think twice, then tell him of his good deeds first, No creature lives so erring and at fault But fails the more if painted at his worst. If you must judge and censure and condemn, Think twice if there be something you can praise, He has his virtues, concentrate on them, And watch him measure to a nobler phase. If you must score another for his wrong, If yours the right of verdict and appeal, Think twice 'ere yet you pass the ill along, If there be something worthy to reveal.
Thus shall your judgment lift to higher plane, And he you judge shall courage find again. CK eepsakes for the CTreasure (@hest of Life By Lella Marler Hoggan KEEP SWEET "Wor the world is full of roses, And the roses full of dew, And the dew is full of heavenly love That drips for me and you." —James Whitcomb Riley. Us that makes us kindred of the Most High. It is the law, the harmony, that holds the planets in their orbits, and clothes the earth with beauty, and inhabits it with life. | hte: is the divine spark within Perfect love casts out all bitterness and fear, and heals the troubled heart. It is the universal language, the universal religion, of the children of men.
Love is the leaven in the bread of life, That lightens and sweetens and enriches the whole; 'Tis the magic portion we.
Must all remember, When we journey with the Master to feed man's soul.
Tolstoy said, "Where love is, there God is, also."
Jesus told the scribe, that to love God with all one's heart, soul, mind, and strength, is the first commandment. And to love one's neighbor as oneself, is the second. "There is none other commandment greater than these," said He.
Have our hearts been touched by the finger of love? Do we walk in the sunshine of gratitude and sweet content? Or, are we among the women who sit at the cross-roads of life, hugging about their shoulders dark mantles of disappointment and bitterness?
Have the years really been unkind to us, or have we failed in some measure to play the game of life according to the rules? "Hate seed in the heart can not produce a love flower in the life," says Orison Swett Marden. "We can not expect to get the fragrant breath of the rose from sowing the thistle seed." Out of the memories of the past we build the foundation for the 496 future. All of the.
Daily comforts that we enjoy; every precious heritage that we possess; yes, even the flag and the cross, were bought with a price. Do we appreciate the sacrifices that have been made for our security and happiness?
Like climbing vines, our souls are forever reaching heavenward. But as our tendrils measure a little higher on the wall of life, from day to day, we may cultivate a certain deep content in present blessings. Out of our work-a-day possessions we may create the beauty and loveliness with which we surround ourselves.
What growth and development and happiness can we carry from each day's experiences?
What sweet memories, what wholesome truths, will lend themselves to the years?
Life is bitter-sweet, and often joy and sorrow walk hand in hand. It is for us to learn to transmute the darkening clouds into rainbows of promise. 'As long as we look toward despair," says Marden, 'we shall never arrive at the harbor of delight." HOSE who put off too long the cultivation of the sweeter graces, lose the vision of the beautiful. Frank Crane said, "Happiness is the perfume of the rose of love."
When little disappointments, trivial cares, and irritating failures, chafe the soul and tempt the heart into hateful reactions, keep sweet, oh friend. It will not be long until such small trials will have passed out of memory. If, in these days of economic distress, wealth or position or power shall slip away from one, like sand through the fingers, keep sweet, dear heart.
Brighter visions will rise out of the ashes of dead hopes. The bird of promise will wing its way back, with the comitig of the spring.
When bowed low in the revealing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE pain of sorrow, keep sweet, brave soul.
Life can not be patterned all in golden gladness.
Along every path there are altars and little graves. Even Mary, stood in the shadow of the cross. But did she not see her beloved son walk forth in glory from the dark tomb? It is the bitterness, and not the pain and the loss, that leaves scars that time cannot erase. The high heart that glimpses the vision above the cross; that glorifies every great loss to the soul's eternal uplifting, will find glad memories at the sacred shrine of its treasures.
Whenever you get to the end of the world and feel sure that the rainbow has dropped out of the sky, and that the stars have lost their luster, remember, there is a tomorrow. All of the joy of the waiting years may be held in the dawning of that new day. You can not possibly know what lovely awakening of heart and soul, may come out of that hour that is just ahead: Let not bitterness or fear or disappointed hopes, undo the good that has been done.
Always and forever, new light, new truth, new joy, are bursting forth from the burning bush for our comfort and our salvation.
Romance is reaching out rosy fingers to us all along the way. She is holding gifts of rare worth in the palm of her open hand, for those who are ready to accept them. Edwin Markham says, "Nothing is lost forever that the soul Cried out for: Allis waiting at the goal." And again, "God is not foiled: the drift of the World Will Is stronger than all wrong.
Earth and her years, Down Joy's bright way or Sorrow's longer road, Are moving toward the Purpose of the Skies."