[Vol22 | August 1935 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Help Me to Stand the Glennamaddy]

Help me to stand the test; to reachthe goal, Though angry billows surge like mountains high: May never cruel wave engulf my soul. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon UGUST—Now gracious summer spreads her richest viands for man's delight. RUTH BRYAN OWEN, United States minister to Denmark, received and entertained the delegation in charge of the covered wagon sent from Utah to Denmark's historic park. At the same time she learned many interesting facts pertaining to pioneering in her own country. MiSs ANN MORGAN, president of the American Woman's Association has been awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters by the Russell Sage College. PROFESSOR MAUD MAY BABCOCK of Utah has been nominated for president of the National Association of Teachers of Speech. She is the first nominee from the western states. ILLIAN TEMPLETON, movie stylist began her career by designing gowns for Anne Harding while she was her secretary. She is noted for originality of design and is now a famous studio stylist. ADAM LE BRUN, wife of the president of France on her recent visit to the United States and during her entertainment at the White House was asked by the women of the press "If when at home she traveled around like Mrs. Roosevelt." 'Oh, no," she answered, "tat home I am nothing, and besides I have a home and four grandchildren." UEEN MARY at her last court was more regal than ever in her irridescent gown under her blue and gold court train. She wore the loveliest of her three crowns, the one with the great Kohinoor diamond and the three matchless African diamonds. Eleven American girls were presented, among them Helen Jacobs, the tennis champion. ANY woman in Germany may receive financial assistance when her children are born. In fact practically all countries except the United © States provide maternity insurance in some form. HELEN WILLS MOODY and Helen Jacobs, again rivals at Wimbledon this summer in the tennis tournament, played a most sensational game in which Mrs.
Moody again became champion. AMARA KOUTANONA established the world's record parachute jump for women. She leaped 25,426.4 feet from an airplane without oxygen apparatus. M42AM SCHUMAN NHEINK'S philosophy expressed on her 74th birthday was to believe that every one loves her, and she loves everybody, and that is happiness. 'LILY PONS, metropolitan star will appear this season in the films, while Grace Moore of motion picture fame has accepted an offer from the Metropolitan Opera Company. ONICA SHANNON of California is the winner this year of the Newberry medal for the most distinguished juvenile book. "Dobey" is the title. MASJORIE BARSTOW. A. C. Craig, Esther Forbes. Evalvn Walsh McLean and Rita Halle Kleeman all have new novels ready for the fall. Fo THEL MANNING'S new book, "Forever Wandering" and Jean Toussaint-Sonat's 'Ships Aflame," are among the new popular novels.