[Vol22 | August 1935 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Unless You Become as a Griffen]

Unless You Become as a Little Child By Marguerite Johnson Griffin
THE afternoon had lengthened into a premature twilight. The skies were overcast, and rain pattered drearily on the window pane. Edith Ashton, looking out upon the wet pavement and drenched lawn, sighed wearily. "Will this rain never cease? How melancholy a rainy twilight makes one feel, and it's not yet time for twilight, either. It makes one feel queer, as if all were not quite right." Her hands lay with a relaxed weariness in her lap. Her eyes stared on seeing nothing, while her mind battled against a feeling of depression, of impending trouble. Children's voices in the street focused her vision upon existing realities, and she saw her own little nine-year-old Doris, her curls bobbing and her face smiling, dash joyously up the steps. "How carefree is childhood; no worries, no sorrows, nothing but gaiety, joy,' she mused. The front door opened and eager steps brought the daughter before her. "Oh, mother," the child cried, her face abeam, her cheeks flushed from exposure and from excitement, her eyes dancing like sparkling dewdrops. "I'm so happy that Daddy said I could go to the beach with my Primary class. And tomorrow is the day, too, isn't it? And just think! I've never even seen the ocean, and it's only a hundred miles away. Sister Snyder says we can get there in about three hours in cars. Mother, have you ever seen the ocean?" "Yes, dear," the woman answered quietly. "Quite a long time ago." "What's it like? Does it really make a dreadful roar?" "Yes, indeed. It—" "And when you're in the middle can't you really see any land?" "Oh, no. You can't see any land when you're in the middle." "I can hardly wait to go. I've never seen the ocean only in the movies, and—" she was checked by a vehement sneeze. "Doris, go at once and change your clothes. You are wet through. And gargle your throat while you're at it. If you are not careful, you will catch a bad cold and not be able to go at all." Edith's sharp mother-eyes saw the child's face pale and her big eyes widen in a look almost of terror at this fearful possibility. "No, no," she cried. "I will change all of my clothes. I'll gargle my throat. I mustn't get a cold. I've just got to go, mother. I've never seen it. I'd die if—" "Never mind," said the mother reassuringly. "If you take precautions, I am sure you will not get sick. Don't even think about it, dear." The child ran away to do her bidding. "I didn't realize what that outing means to her," thought the woman. Perhaps childhood is not so carefree after all. Perhaps she would feel as keenly about that as a grown person who had been promised a trip around the world, and at the last minute was deprived of going. Perhaps, after all, the sorrows and troubles of childhood are as great as the child can grapple with. But then, nothing will keep her from going to
UNLESS YOU BECOME AS A LITTLE CHILD
the beach," she smiled with satisfaction, "for tomorrow is the day."
THE child's cheerfulness had in a measure dispelled Edith's gloom, but now that Doris had gone upstairs the old foreboding returned. Her eyes again sought the rain-drenched street, and almost immediately her husband's figure came into view. The sight of him caused her to start.
Where was his buoyant springing step, his cheery whistle?
Where were his alert eyes and happy smile? Why did his shoulders, usually so erect, droop as if a weary load weighted them down? Why did his head, usually held high, hang with dejection, while his eyes sought only the walk before him? Why did his feet, usually so light, move as if bound by leaden weights? "Something is wrong!" seemed to whisper in Edith's ear. The door opened, and with it was wafted in a spirit of despair.
There was no cheery call, no alert steps seeking first of all her whereabouts. She waited, and then she went into the other room where he was. "Paul," she murmured in dismay. He only looked at her. A nameless fear smote her as she scanned his face. All the lights of happiness were gone from his brown eyes. The nostrils of his nose were slightly distended and he breathed hard as if he had run a great distance.
Only she knew he hadn't. At least not recently enough to cause him to still be breathless, for she had seen him walk slowly home as if pondering some weighty matter. But what chilled her most of all was the bitter line into which his lips were tightly set. "Paul," she repeated again, "Paul, what is wrong?"
Still he stared at her. But she imagined that her concern for him had softened the bitterness of his eyes.
Suddenly he crushed her to him. "Edith," he almost sobbed. She stroked his dark hair comfortingly as a mother soothing a hurt child.
After a time she said softly, "Tell me what is wrong, Paul." He stepped back from her, and again his face filled with bitterness.
Almost between clenched teeth he said, "I've been swindled out of that money Dad left me, and by a member of your church." His words sent a chill of panic through her veins. Was he forgetting that he had joined her church voluntarily five years ago?
Taking his hand she led him to the davenport. "Sit down here," she said softly, "and tell me all about it." "Oh, Edith," he began impulsively. "You know what that money coming in these times meant to us. It meant something for a rainy day. For an emergency, and if not needed for that, then for Doris' education." His calmness left him. "And now it's all gone.
Gone as completely as if it had never come." He paused, but she said nothing.
Instead she tried to understand, and waited for him to go on. "Brother Morton sold me some worthless stock." "Stock," she repeated, her senses numb.
Before this she had thought only of Paul, had been worried because of his terrifying expression, but now she was beginning to realize that the money was gone. The money that had made them feel secure against any emergency. And now it was gone.
Gone was their security against unemployment.
Gone were all hopes for a higher education for their little daughter.
They could never in a life-time with Paul's salary save the amount Dad had left them, and much less could they do so in these times. "And he's a member of the Church, too." Paul's voice was dull and lifeless. Yes, he was a member of the church—Brother Morton—she could hardly believe it. "But how—" "Oh, it would have been different if I had asked him or been searching for some stock to buy," he explained. "But he had heard about us getting this money and he came to me and told me this stock was the best I could buy, that I should use this money to make money. And of course you know I have never taken enough interest in stocks to know much about them. He acted as if he were doing me a special favor by selling me this stock and he, being a member of the Church, I accepted his word with confidence.
That was several weeks ago." "And you told me nothing about it?" "Well, I thought I would surprise you when we got our first dividend. But today I heard some fellows talking about this particular stock and how they had sunk money into it some time ago and now it isn't worth the paper it's written on, so I took it to the bank to make sure. I found out." He paused. "It's worthless," he finished in despair. "No wonder Brother Morton left town last week," Edith mused. "You bet,' exploded the man. "The dirty swindler! He knew what was best for him." His fists were clenched until the white showed through. "I'm done with a church whose members do things like that." A pang of terror smote her heart. The money was forgotten in her mind.
What was money in comparison to the fact that Paul was embittered against the church, Paul, a member of only five years?
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Dear. Father. In Heaven," her soul cried out. "Help me to say something to show him his mistake, to soften his heart." "Paul," she said gently, while her whole body trembled and her pulses raced. "You have always been so fair about everything since I have first known you, and now when you say 'a church whose members do things like that'—If you will stop to think you will know that is very wrong. Why in every organization to which human beings belong there are always people of all kinds. But where you find one dishonest person, there are many good ones." His eyes were still filled with bitterness although he listened patiently. Panic filled her heart. Could nothing she might say convince him? "Even in the lodge you belonged to before you joined the Church— and your lodge stood for honesty, love, brotherhood, and the fine things of life, too—still there was that man who swindled people. It was in all the papers. It is unfair to censure any organization for the acts of one of its members." "But a church should be different than a lodge," he interposed stubbornly. She countered quickly. 'When it comes to things like that you know yourself, Paul, people can't be made over in a hurry. Some have a weakness for money. They will stop at nothing to get it. No church can force them to abandon their wicked ways. It can only teach, exhort, and persuade. People do not always do the things they know they should, or even the things they tell others to do. They—" Doris came running in, unaware of the serious problem at hand. Her clothes were changed and dry. Her eyes were bright with anticipation.
UNLESS YOU BECOME AS A LITTLE CHILD
"See, Mother. I have no cold, but I gargled anyway. Oh, Daddy!" She jumped upon his lap, showering him with kisses. In the face of that his bitterness fled momentarily. Edith was relieved. Soon the child paused to exclaim, "Daddy, just think! Tomorrow I am going to the beach with my Primary class, and I have never even seen the ocean yet. I can hardly wait." "You are going to the beach with your Primary teacher?" the man asked as if he had forgotten all about it. "Yes, Daddy. You know you said I could a long time ago." The child's face was radiant. "It's only a hundred miles, and Sister Snyder said we'll get there in three hours in cars. I can hardly wait. Daddy, does the ocean—" "You're not going!' the man barked, his chin set determinedly, his eyes flashing. The little girl's face went deathly white. Her eyes grew wide with perplexity. "Not—not—going—" she stammered. "You heard me!" her father answered sharply. "I'm not going to have a daughter of mine go anywhere with a teacher of a church that—" But he left the rest unsaid, and with a face flushed with anger left the room. The mother's heart ached. To think that her husband who had always been so kind and considerate, who in reality thought the world of little Doris, would allow his trouble to make him cruel to the child. Yes, cruel, for the girl's lips were quivering, her misty eyes were wide with dismay, as if she could not understand. "Mother," she said slowly. "Can't I really go? He didn't mean that!" "I guess he did, daughter." How she longed to tell the child she could go any way. There had been no fairness in his edict. Yet she could not, for they had always been united where Doris had been concerned. One had never contradicted the other. "Never mind, darling," she said, patting the girl's sunny head. "We will all go some day." "Some day," repeated the child bitterly. "I want to go tomorrow. I've never seen Daddy so mean," and with a sob she rushed from the room.
PAUL scarcely ate anything that night. It was only because of Edith's "Oh, don't you like my roast? It always was your favorite, you know," and "You're not eating a thing" that he ate anything. Edith could tell that if he had given in to it, he really felt like crying. It was a hard blow. Edith felt it, too, only she was too much concerned with what effect it would have on Paul. She had known two or three persons who had become embittered by the actions of other members of the Church to such an extent that they had let it almost ruin their lives and deprive themselves of many blessings they might have had. May nothing like that happen to Paul. No amount of gold is worth the forfeiture of spiritual wealth which thieves cannot steal. It is the individual himself who has the power to rob and cheat himself of those treasures. Doris did not even come down to supper and Edith did not try to coax her, but a little later she took her up a glass of warm milk. Paul was very sleepless that night, tossing and turning until a late hour, and Edith, as she too lay quietly awake, yearned to comfort him but knew not what to say or do. At intervals, from the adjoining room, she could hear Doris' heartbroken sobs, and a little later when she had cried herself to sleep, she could hear her deep weary breathing intermingled from time to time with a long drawn sigh.
THE next morning Paul went early to his work. His face was drawn and slightly pale. Edith yearned to comfort him, but she said little. It being Saturday, she did not awaken Doris, and the child slept until almost noon, for she had grieved so late the night before. But today she was her usual happy self. Edith marveled at the change. "Mother, can I make some more of that fudge that you showed me how to make last week?" "Indeed you may," answered Edith, eager to let the girl do something to make up for her disappointment. "I've got a pretty candy box," Doris went on, "and I'd like to fill it full for Daddy and give to him tonight, 'cause he liked it so well before." Edith continued to marvel. Did the child feel no resentment toward her father? Had she forgotten so easily? In the middle of her candy-making, she paused to say wistfully, "Well, I guess they're all there, having a good time, by now." So Edith knew she hadn't forgotten, that she would never forget that incident nor the pain she had felt, but she had forgiven. That evening Paul found by his plate a box of home-made fudge with a slip of paper in the top on which was written in a childish scrawl: "I love my Daddy." Paul generously appreciated it, but Edith knew he had been too engrossed in his own trouble to sense the full significance of it. So after Doris had gone
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
to bed, she felt the time had come when she could speak. 'Paul, do you realize what a bitter disappointment it was to Doris when you told her she could not go to the beach today?" "Well, I can't help it," he said resentfully. "Brother Morton swindled me. He belongs to your Church, so Doris can't go there any more, or even to the beach with her Primary teacher, or to anything connected with it." "Forget that a moment, Paul, and think how disappointed Doris was. She has never seen the ocean. She had looked forward to going today for three weeks." The man's face softened. "I guess it did hurt the little kid, all right." "She ate no supper and cried half the night." His eyes widened. "She did? Gee, I'm sorry, poor kid. I guess I was too engrossed in my own trouble to notice." "Do you realize, Paul, that her pain over that was as keen as yours over the worthless stock?" "Oh, no—it couldn't be." 'Yes, it was," she insisted. "It seems nothing to you, but remember she is only a child. It was as hard on her as your experience was for you. She suffered just as much." "Maybe there's something in that," he said thoughtfully. Then a sudden wave of bitterness swept over him. "Well, what of it? What connection is there?" "Just this. If she had taken her sorrow as you did yours, she would be bitter. She would hate you. She would hate everything you are connected with, perhaps everything you have given her. But she did not do that. No, she forgave. She will never forget. Always she will remember the disappointment and pain she felt, but she will not condemn you. She forgave. She made you
UNLESS YOU BECOME AS A LITTLE CHILD
the candy and wrote, 'I love my Daddy.' Can you do less than a child will do?" "But I am her father. It is easier for her to forgive me," he protested. "No, it isn't. If anything, it might be harder, at least according to your own words. You are her father. She would not be expecting you to hurt her, even as you would not expect Brother Morton to be dishonest with you since he belongs to the Church. There is no difference as I can see." "Well, I guess you win the argument. I can say nothing to that. But Brother Morton is gone." "Yes. But if you truly forgive, you will not let it make you bitter. You will not censure the Church for what one man has done." "But I wouldn't trust him again. I wouldn't buy any more stock from him," he said vehemently. Edith smiled as if speaking to a small child. "I wouldn't expect or want you to, either," she said. "You will never forget, even as Doris never will, but you can forgive even as she has. You know the scriptures say, 'Unless you become as a little child you cannot enter the kingdom of Heaven'." Later that night Paul stole into Doris' bedroom and gazed lovingly at her peaceful sleeping face. Then he stooped and gently kissed her. "Poor little lamb," he murmured, and through his mind this phrase kept singing: "Unless you become as a little child—" What greater goal is there for a man to work for, he thought. A child is humble, forgiving, loving, expects no evil from others, does no evil to others, is trusting and pure. It is said that Satan cannot tempt little children. If one would truly become as a little child he would place himself above and beyond temptation. He chuckled. "Here I am preaching to myself. Never mind, little Doris, you and I and Mother will go to the Primary conference tomorrow night as you asked us to."