[Vol22 | August 1935 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: The Blue Thomas]
Centerville had no use for Interior decorators. It was hardly out of the golden oak age. _ Anne, furiously quilting, could picture just how sophisticated and well-groomed the beautiful Phyllis would look. "I suppose her hands never touched dish-water!
Wonder if they'll meet her with a_ brass band!" And then, with an almost physical stab there shot into her consciousness the memory of the blue letter!
Frances had "heard from her that morning." Had Richard? Had 487
Phyllis actually written Richard to tell him she was coming to Centerville? And instead of tossing the letter to his wife with a laugh for the nerve of the woman, he had furtively pocketed it and said nothing! But perhaps it was something entirely different.
Would an interior decorator use such lurid stationary?
Anne had an insane impulse to shout at Frances across the room, "Was Phyllis' letter blue, Frances?" But she laughed instead, and Margaret looked affronted, for she had just got to the cost of the floral decorations at John's grandmother's funeral. "Why, Anne, you've pricked your finger! Here, take my handkerchief, you mustn't get a spot on that delicate white block—Cousin Sara would have to give it to you then, for sure!"
Anne smiled mechanically and allowed her finger to be tied up.
Smiled some more and laughed a great deal as she nibbled the things Mary handed her, though she couldn't have told five minutes later what they were. "THAT was what hurt, she thought dully, going home in the car with Margaret. The way Richard had acted. You never could tell what a silly woman might do, but one did expect a certain course of action from one's husband. She had thought she knew Richard so well! As Margaret prepared to get out of the car she plunged the knife in deeper, "Oh, by the way, Anne, Frances tells me that Phyllis Thornton—you know, Richard's old sweetheart—she's a famous interior decorator, now—is giving a lecture here next Thursday night. Won't that be wonderful! You mustn't forget to tell Richard! I must see how long she is staying so that we can entertain her if possible.
Frances is an old girlhood chum, but I really was ra488 ther hurt when it was not me she wrote to! All during the evening, while she fed, bathed and got the weary children to bed, she was trying to decide what attitude to take toward Richard when he came home.
Should she let him know that she knew Phyllis was coming and laughingly accuse him of concealing the fact from her? He might have a perfectly reasonable explanation of his failure to mention the letter in the blue envelope. Or should she ignore the matter and let him be the first to mention it? If she could only forget his furtiveness when the letter arrived! She did not know if she was glad or sorry when he telephoned that he would not be home until late, 'something important had come up," and not to wait dinner. She went listlessly to bed, suddenly weary and disspirited. HE next week, outwardly like any other, was one long inward torment to Anne. A feeling of constraint was in the air. She fancied Richard eyed her strangely at times, and that he was on the point of saying something important once or twice. As for herself, she found it increasingly impossible to mention that woman's name. If he had only come home that first evening when she was in the mood to challenge him gayly—even though with an undercurrent of earnestness—or if she had even, as she later felt inclined to, accused him angrily, it might have cleared the air, but now the time for frank discussion was past, and Anne went about her work in dull, resentful silence, hardening her heart against Richard's hurt puzzlement, he needn't pretend he didn't know what was the matter. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ON Wednesday, as she soused ' little woolens in foamy suds, her thoughts abstracted, her movements automatic, the telephone rang and Margaret's imperative voice greeted her, "Anne?
What do you think?
Phyllis did write me after all! She is coming on the six-thirty, and her lecture doesn't commence till eight.
That gives ample time for quite an elaborate dinner, don't you think? I know she had something of the kind in her mind; she said how she looked forward to seeing everybody and she did hope for a real visit with some of the dearest old friends— you know-—I feel I can't do less than have a little dinner with as many of her old crowd as I can handle—Frances says she isn't going to do anything—there'll be you and Richard—what did you say?" "I'm not an old friend, Margaret, I never saw the woman—you can—" "Oh, bother!
What of it!
Richard could hardly come without you, could he? But that wasn't what. I called you about,' Margaret rushed on, talking down Anne's continued attempts to refuse the invitation. "Will you let me take your Patrician silver? And those glasses Cousin Sara gave you for a wedding present? I can do for everything else, but you might bring half a dozen napkins. There's John calling. Well, good-bye! I'll count on you." Suddenly, standing by the telephone, which seemed still to ring with the echo of Margaret's decisive voice, Anne began to cry. All the resentment, fear and suspicion of the past week welled up and dropped from her eyes in great, scalding tears. She threw herself into a chair and wept wildly, uncontrollably.
From the dark recesses of her mind she brought out old grievances, forgotten snubs from Margaret, tactless speeches of Richard's that had left an unacknowldeged bruise.
Every buried heart-ache of her married life was dug up and tears shed over its desecrated grave. She almost felt she hated the Carsons! How alien they were to her! Even Richard seemed like an unfriendly stranger. And Anne's "good cry" ended in homesick sobbing for her dear, understanding, elder sister Katherine.
Katherine who had been both sister and mother to little motherless Anne, and whose dear face she had not seen for six years.
That was a big part of her trouble she decided, washing her swollen eyes in cold water, she was lonely for Katherine. And it had been so long since she had heard! Thursday, fatal day, was also her birthday, and Katherine's gift, to which she always looked forward childishly, and which usually came days early, had not yet arrived. Well, she was sure that Richard, always a trifle groggy as to dates, would never remember it now, and if Katherine failed her too— "T HURSDAY, unaware of its fateful importance in the affairs of Centerville, dawned with no more display of natural phenomena than any other day. The sun came over the mountain, homes awoke, water boiled, oatmeal was cooked, bacon fried, toast burned.
School bells rang, whistles blew, trucks lumbered by, as callously as if this day was not to see the finish of all Anne Carson's marital happiness. Well, she had decided one thing. She was not going to Margaret's dinner. Let them think what they wished! She would not go through that! She packed in a box the things Margaret had asked for and giving the package to Richard as he left said coldly, 'Please take these things to Margaret this morning, Richard, I've written a note telling her I don't feel like attending her dinner this
THE BLUE ENVELOPE 489 evening. Of course, that needn't make any difference with your going!"' Richard looked disturbed. "Is Margaret pulling a dinner tonight? I can't go, either. I—lI've made other arrangements." So that was how it was! He was having a private rendezvous with Phyllis! Why, Margaret's dinner was infinitely preferable to that! If she had planned to go, Richard could hardly have refused. Well, it was too late now.
With vicious energy Anne turned to her house cleaning. It was six o'clock.
Already the Winter dusk had fallen and the little room was cheerful in the glow from softly shedded lights. Anne, in the new blue dress, with which she had meant to surprise Richard on her birthday, sat before the glowing fire undressing Dicky. Peggy, in her little chair near by, placidly rocked her doll. From Anne's face all the bitter tenseness of the past week was gone. It was pale and pensive, but the storm had passed. As she worked with desperate energy that day she had thought out the situation and come to her decision.
Richard had failed her but there were still her children, she would live for them.
Their happiness was all that mattered now, they were of paramount importance. Even Katherine, it seemed had forgotten her. Well, she would forget herself, and devote the rest of her life in unselfish service to these poor little victims of another marriage gone on the rocks. The children, little human barometers, felt the change in her temperature and basked in it. HERE was the sound of car wheels on the gravel.
Peggy flattened her nose against the window. "One's daddy!" she announced. "and a lady, and a man and a girl, yes, and a boy!" 490
The door burst open. The room was suddenly full of shouts and laughter. Anne rose, bewildered. "Anne!""Oh, Katherine!" "Did we surprise you?" "Happy birthday!" "And these are the children? Aren't they darling!" "And this is little Frank!" Through her happy tears Anne was suddenly conscious of Richard's dear familiar face beaming at her from the background and his voice exclaiming, "Never again say I can't keep a secret! I've known this for a week!" "Yes, we had to let him know so he could meet us, and make sure you'd be at home,"' said Katherine, smiling at her brother-in-law. "Was—was it the letter in the blue envelope?" Anne asked faintly. Richard looked blank. "Yes, I beKatie and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE lieve it was blue," Katherine answered, laughing, "I remember I had to borrow an envelope from Katie here, and she rather runs to highly colored stationery!" "T noticed that envelope," said Anne, and smiled secretly at all that simple statement covered. ' "We'll have to excuse Richard," Anne announced two hours later as they still lingered about the dinner table. "His old sweetheart and my hated rival is lecturing on Interior Decorating in the Social Hall tonight!" "Oh, is this the night?" Richard paused in the midst of a long political discussion with Katherine's husband to ask, "Margaret did say something about Phyllis speaking here this week, but I'd forgotten the date. Well, it would be nice to see how Phyl has weathered through, but I hardly feel equal to a lecture on Interior Decorating, even for old times sake. Not tonight." Help Me to
Stand the Test 
By Terrence Sylvester Glennamaddy Father, when the clouds of life are darkest, Help me to know that all is best for me; And though the worst of storms may gather oft, Calm thou my spirit while I breast the sea.
Help me to understand thy will is right, Though I myself do often go astray.
Guide thou my every footstep on life's path; Oh, help thou me to tread the narrow way. I ask that thou wilt still the storm for me; It may be best to rend with lightning flash.
Help me to bear affliction's thorns of pain; And guide me, Father, that I may not dash My frail bark against the rugged rocks.
