DON'T YOU LOVE YOUR SISTERS! The least degree critical of anyone. These, then, are my sisters. My blood sisters. Any time I see any one of them I am gloriously happy, and we talk, talk, talk. And now I come to the thought that inspired this article. I was sitting in Relief Society one Tuesday, enjoying and being mellowed by an exceptionally fine social science lesson. My eye fell on one sister who is so stalwart and good, upon sisters who have devoted their lives to others, a sister who has three sons on missions; the members of our presidency, who shoulder so uncomplainingly the heavy burdens of work that their offices entail, whose sweet spirits do much to insure that our meetings are always inspirational and worthwhile. As I looked at these sisters and the many other dear ones present that day, I felt the same glow of love, the same spiritual closeness that I feel for my physical sisters. And I realized, as I mentioned earlier, the preciousness of the relationship, and felt extremely blessed for having sisters in such abundance. The picture came to me of Relief Societies meeting all over the world all of them attended by women who are striving to live the principles of the gospel, all united by a spiritual tie. How wonderful it is to be associated together! I am sure that all of you, everywhere, say it with me. Love our sisters? Oh, indeed, indeed we do. More Value than: many = SParrows = Margaret Woods Walisall, Staffordshire, England once. Many years ago, she ll-known and dear 4SSociations, in order to seek greater happiness and love. The new life Pain and Many Sacrifices as home; most demand his "Vat a Child he is," and SOaked bre Mm the back arden on, zen he can really en Joy himself" She went out to feed the w 8arden glistened With frost. The b White lily Pond was ave all the Scraps § heavily on the MORE VALUE THAN MANY SPARROWS herself to the limit in persisting to place new food on her lawn the minute the last meal was devoured. In this way, blackbird and the more timid ones, such as dainty thrush and cheeky robin, were able to pick up the crumbs that were left after the attack of the tough fellows was over. T HE morning came, however, when the old lady could not leave her bed. She tried, desperately, but the pain in her chest and the weight of her limbs was too great. "You won't forget to feed my blackbird, will you?" she would say to those who came to tend her each day. But she knew that although the bird would be fed, as she had asked, that it needed the continual feeding of one who really cared and loved to be sure that the weaker ones received enough. "How is blackbird faring? Has he been seen today?" But others did not share her interest, although she knew they meant well. The time came when the old lady was well again and able to leave her bed. She looked repeatedly for her beloved bird, but he never came. "He must be finding his food elsewhere," she decided. "He has forgotten how I loved and cared for him. He might be. Oh, no! Not that. "But she wondered if he could have died from hunger because of the neglect of other people. She hoped not and continued to place food outside each day. Then, one morning, she saw robin hopping about, eyeing the food from a distance. Retreating quickly to the house, she stood in the shadows and watched through her kitchen window. To her delight, she saw him — her blackbird. She knew it was he because of the odd little way he drooped one wing. He had come back! Oh! How happy she was. She wanted to rush out to him, but knew she must wait for him to become tame again. It would be a slow process, but if she was careful and diligent, he would again peep at her through the window and peck the tidbits she dug up for him. She spent the springtime in fostering again his love and was pleased to see his gentle brown wife. The leggy thrushes and robin redbreasts were now also frequent visitors to her garden, along with the many, inevitable sparrows. One mild, summer evening, she sat rocking in her chair by the open window. There had been a gentle rain shower which had refreshed the flowers and leaves, and now the red evening sun splashed the western sky. The old lady's heart filled with gratitude and pleasure as she heard what was to her the most beautiful sound in all the world — the song of blackbird as he sat high in the elder tree, flinging his regained message to the wide, glowing sky.