Painting with Glass Florian H. Thayn Wuat does a thrifty, talented woman do with old broken glass dishes, empty pop bottles, or scraps of colored glass? In College Park Ward, Washington Stake, she saves them, guards them jealously, and sorts them carefully into dozens of shoe boxes! If a longsuffering husband, who has patiently seen her through the tin-canused-flash-bulb-tree-ornament phase, asks Why? She calmly explains: "A lovely picture is being created from practically nothing." From there the conversation gets more complicated, or unbelievable, depending upon his past experiences with unfinished projects! PAINTING WITH GLASS Pictures from glass are a creation of Betty Beesley Huber, ward work meeting leader. It all began over two years ago when she visioned the artistic possibilities of the use of tiny pieces of glass to create a three-dimensional mosaic picture lovely enough to hang in simple rooms, or sufficiently striking to decorate lavish homes and offices. Her daughter, Sharon Huber Carter, sketched the designs, and from the ideas of this mother-daughter team have grown a most unusual activity for the College Park Relief Society and a blossoming business for the Huber-Carter team. The process for this art is the result of much study and experimentation. Nearly a year was spent finding the proper adhesive. The popular glues commonly used by housewives to mend broken dishes and wobbly furniture failed, as did the cements and epoxy glues. Finally, a jeweler's cement was found, which, when properly applied, holds the glass secure. Collecting the Glass As with most arts, it is the time that is the expense. Hours and hours have been spent collecting the glass and processing it. The most easily obtained colors in glass are found in broken bleach bottles and in green soft-drink bottles. The bright blue found in magnesia bottles and other containers is a favorite color. The pinks found in cheap dishes from second hand stores or in variety stores are most welcome. One sister brought in the parts of a once lovely orange iridescent bowl and said her sorrow at breaking it faded when she realized she could use it in the pictures! Sister Huber accidentally broke a family heirloom, a cut glass bowl, which couldn't be mended. The pictures that have bits of that bowl in the design are a pioneer treasure! Another sister enlisted her relatives and spent part of her vacation time gathering glass in Upstate New York. A broken chandelier she found in the attic of an old hotel supplied the marbleized ''cobblestones" for a fifty-two inch long picture, Camelot. She also discovered a discarded automobile windshield that broke perfectly into honeycombed pieces. The glass was used to give depth and texture to a delightful seahorse. While much of the glass is obtained without cost, unusual and bright colors are expensive purchases from stained glass dealers. The milk-white glass of broken milk glass or from face cream jars gave a jolly clown perfect "makeup." About the only glass that is not satisfactory is the clear white kind found in most kitchen tumblers, jelly glasses, or white pop bottles, because there is no reflection or depth from such glass. Some colored marbles have been used (when broken in smaller pieces), as special accents. Preparing the Glass The accumulated glass is placed in a 450-500° oven for 30 to 40 minutes to heat it thoroughly. Carefully it is removed with kitchen tongs and hot pads and immediately plunged into a bucket of cold water. The intense heating and quick cooling cause the glass to spackle and to break easily without causing sharp needle splinters that result when unheated glass is pounded. For ease in sorting, only one color of glass should be placed in a bucket at a time, but several pieces may be chilled at one time. (There have been no accidents, since caution has always been used in removing the hot glass from the oven. A lid may be placed over the bucket in case the cracking glass jumps.) The cold glass is placed on pads of newspapers, and the flat side of a hammer is used to break it into small pieces. Again, caution should be used. Small children should be kept away from this process. Even the glass that is nearly powdered in the breaking process is saved and used. In this project, there just isn't any waste! Preparing the Picture Background The next step is to obtain a sturdy picture frame. Brother Ralph Huber was recruited to miter corners and to make some odd-dimensioned frames, but the sisters also searched many fun hours in secondhand shops and old barns, and watched for sales to find the coveted frames at the best prices. The frames must be sufficiently strong to hold the weight of the glass and the plywood backing to which the glass is glued. 201 "Painting'' the Glass Picture A white or egg-shell, plain textured drapery fabric has been found the most satisfactory background on which to work. The material is tacked and glued to plywood cut to fit the frame. The outline of the design is lightly sketched in pencil on the cloth, and then the tedious, but rewarding task of placing the hundreds of pieces of glass begins. The design is first laid out without glue so that it can be altered and changed to satisfy one's artistic taste. It is important to know where and how the glass should be placed before the glue is applied because, once the glue is on, the pieces are there to stay. Care must be used to keep any glue off the fabric where no glass is desired. The glass does not adhere well if too large pieces are used, or if plenty of glue is not used, or if the glue is not also placed on. Adjoining pieces. By using many small pieces close together, the effect of feathers, wind in ships' sails, or various textures can be achieved. Sometimes the glass seems to be placed two or three layers deep, but this illusion comes from the variations in the thickness of the glass. As the placing of the glass progresses, pieces often must be broken to obtain the correct size. To keep the tiny bits from escaping and damaging floors where the work is done, Sister Huber contrived a 12" x 12" wooden box with high sides and a raised platform inside to give the hammering sisters a restricted area in which to "break and _ search!"' Generally, the pictures have the most appeal with the cloth background left bare, but a most attractive, old-fashioned bouquet design was given depth and real importance when the entire background was filled with the pale blue-white found in a heavy soft drink bottle. Gold accents are painted on. Finally, the completed picture is tried in the frame to determine the color of paint, varnish, or finish that will complement the picture. Many of the design ideas are from advertisements, but many artistic sisters made up their own. It is of prime importance to keep the design simple and uncluttered, and careful planning will determine whether your picture is a craft or a lovely work of art. It can be a family project, with father and the older boys sawing the plywood and fitting the frames. The tiniest tot can watch for colored glass bottles to help make a friendly clown, a lovable teddy bear, or a panting puppy. A strutting red rooster of undetermined breed seemed just right for a provincial room. When he was duplicated in shades of cobalt blue and kelly green, he was as modern as tomorrow's weather forecast. A huge eagle with his wings spread has been a repeat best seller. Colored slides are taken of each picture when it is finished. These serve as a pattern for duplicate orders. (continued on page 238)