Desserts That Please the Family Florence K. Gates CUSTARD 12 large egg yolks 12 tbsp. Sugar 2 tsp. Vanilla 6 c. Milk Y2 tsp. Salt nutmeg Add sugar and salt to 5% c. Milk. Mix well and scald; pour over egg yolks which have been slightly beaten with Y ¢. Of the milk. Add vanilla and strain into 2-quart casserole. Sprinkle top of custard with nutmeg. Set casserole in pan of hot water and bake at 350° until firm—about 45 to 55 minutes. (Place on middle rack of oven so water in pan will not boil.) Smaller amounts can be made by using basic recipe: Ya c. Milk 1 egg yolk vanilla 1 tbsp. Sugar spk. Salt nutmeg Follow directions above. ANGEL FOOD CAKE 12 large egg whites (1% to 2 c.) lc. Plus 2 tbsp. Sifted cake flour 212 1% c. Sugar % tsp. Salt 1% tsp. Cream of tartar 1 tsp. Vanilla or 4% tsp. Lemon extract % tsp. Almond extract Sift 2 ¢. Of the sugar and flour 4 times. Add salt to egg whites and whip until frothy; add cream of tartar and continue whipping; add extract and 1 c¢. Of sugar gradually. Whip until whites are stiff but not dry, and will stand in peaks. Fold in flour and sugar mixture carefully. Pour into large ungreased angel food cake pan and place in oven on center rack. Bake 35 minutes at 350° in preheated oven. Take from oven and invert pan until cold before removing. ORANGE ICING 3 c. Powdered sugar 4 tbsp. Butter 1 egg yolk dash of salt 1 tbsp. Grated lemon rind 1 tbsp. Grated orange rind 1 tbsp. Orange juice 1 tsp. Lemon juice Cream butter, sugar, salt. Add egg yolk and other ingredients and whip until smooth and fluffy. (For a more elegant cake frost with 7- minute icing and coconut.) Hollingsworth it ae agsHecen Hurley was making cookies, but her heart really wasn't in the process today. She had rolled the dough out and had opened the drawer for the cookie cutter, when she saw the cutouts for the horse, the rabbit, the chicken, and the gingerbread man. These were the ones Bobby liked to use when he helped with the cookies, but, she thought, it would look silly for me to make animal cookies for just John and me. With a deep sigh, she put them back in the drawer and cut the dough in regular round cookies. Bobby had always been on hand for cookie making. No matter what else he was doing, he would come running at cookie baking time. "Is it time to cut them out, Mama?" he would ask a dozen times during the process. "Can I put the raisin eyes in now?" With regret in her heart and neat to tears, she remembered the times when she had thought she was just too busy to be bothered with him. She was always in such a hurry, it seemed, and it took time to let him cut the animals out and put eyes in. Too busy? What had she been thinking of? Actually, it took only 4 minute or two to cut them out, and she remembered how happy he was to help her, and how proud he was when he showed the baked cookies to his father and said, "Look, Daddy, look, I made them all myself." Later, when she roused herself, she remembered that she had planned to scrub and wax the floors today. 'They really didn't need cleaning, though, she thought, as she looked the floors over. No one is here to track mud or dirt in. Track mud in - It had been about a month ago, and she had just finished 'scrubbing and waxing the oor when she heard the screen door slam and Bobby came running in. "Mama, Mama, do you know what?" he began excitedly. "Bobby," she scolded. "How many times must I tell you not to slam that screen door? And you've tracked mud all over my clean floor." For the first time she noticed his clothes, and continued in a tone of exasperation. "And what have you been doing to get your clothes so dirty? Why, you've even torn your shirt."'. It wasn't until then that she noticed his face. He looked so crestfallen, and there was a hurt expression in his eyes. In a subdued voice she then asked, "What was it you wanted to tell me?" Although he told her about the bird building a nest in the tree by the garage, and that he had to crawl on a ledge to see better, the joy of sharing his secret with her had been ruined by her words. Almost as if her mother were in the room and repeating the words again, she heard her say, "You know, Helen, a mud-tracked floor can be wiped clean again. A torn shirt can be mended, but it isn't easy to put the joy back on the face of a child, or take the hurt look out of his eyes when harsh words have been spoken." How right her mother had been. Why, oh, why was I always so quick to scold him? She thought. 'The mud on the floor really didn't matter compared to the experience he had had in watching the bird gather string, leaves, twigs, and scraps of cloth and painstakingly carry each piece to the tree to make her nest. In his haste to get on the ledge before the bird returned from one of her trips, he had torn his shirt. She recalled how excited and how anxious he had been to share his experience with her, then she had spoiled it all by her hastily spoken words. If only a mother could always have a