She Rugged Rug Hookers Geneve Hourihan O the women, yes, and men, too, who have chosen rug hooking as a hobby or a vocation, the results are just the same—a beautiful product and a money saver, because many hours are needed to complete a fair-sized rug or a picture for the wall. We attended our first class in hooking rugs over twenty years ago. This was during the depression days, when one was supposed to make something-from-nothing or make-do with what you had. We made our own frames from pieces of scrap lumber, our hooks were made from a nail driven into a handle, carved by hand out of a block of wood; the head of the nail was cut off with a hacksaw and filed to make a hook. The material used, preferably wool, was generally out of scrap bags, and believe me, they were very lean in those days. 'The rugs were hooked on burlap, originally a bag that had been carefully washed, starched a little, and the design drawn on with crayola, then lightly gone over with a warm iron to set the design. We cut the strips of material by hand about one-third of an inch wide. The proof of the sturdiness of these rugs is the fact that many of them are still in use. As time went by, the bad times turned to good, but not for long. The second world war came along and wool material for rug making was again hard to get. We found the salvage stores stocked old wool clothing, but we did not purchase wearable garments to cut up, unless we found a certain number of moth holes in them. No one ever looked so gleefully for moth holes, as the women did in those days. Needless to say, the rugs hooked during this trying time didn't wear too well. The known history of rug hooking in Utah goes a long way back. Many years ago in a sheep-raising community in Utah, the women of the Relief Society were at a loss for carpeting for the floor in one of the Church buildings.. 'They found a solution. After the shearing of the sheep, there was always wool left hanging onto the bushes and barb-wire fences. 'The women gleaned this wool. It was in such small pieces that carding was not practical, so they left it as it was, but dyed it mto bnght colors from dyes made from natural resources, berries, leaves, and brush—dyes which resembled those the Indians used for Navajo rugs. 'They hooked these small pieces of wool into a beautiful design. 'This carpeting is a lasting reminder of the wonderful spirit of true ingenuity and thnift. Rug hooking is used extensively in the veterans' hospitals as a great therapeutic for the disabled. It is a wonderful pick-up for anyone. The short intervals of spare time during a busy day of a housekeeper, can be made pleasant and useful with a rug and material close by to hook on, even though it be only for a few minutes at a time. The modern rug-making workshop of today consists of cutters or strippers, which cut strips five or more at a time and as narrow as one-eighth of an inch. The material can be bought new. In hooking flowers and other designs, one needs from six to eight shades of each color, which may be bought or dyed at home to give a spotty effect. The current trend is the reproduction of scenes, such as Currier and Ive's prints, hooked into spectacular pictures for the wall. For our first attempt at hooking a picPage 190 THE RUGGED RUG HOOKERS 191 ture, we selected one of a New England covered bridge. We hooked it in brownish-red shades, with snow-tipped evergreens, a brown horse hitched to a red sleigh, snow-capped mountain peaks in the background, a rustic fence, and the trees hooked in such a manner that the perspective looked like three dimensions, and so lifelike that people seeing it wanted to touch it. Although progress has found new methods, and attractive floral and scenic patterns on burlap are readily available, rug hooking is quite an art. There is still a great deal of satisfaction in creating your own designs, and digging into the scrap bag and coming up with a useful as well as a pretty rug. NEW ENGLAND COVERED BRIDGE HOOKED RUG MADE BY GENEVE HOURIHAN The rug was made in a pattern taken from a photograph of a New England covered bridge. Wool material cut in one-eighth inch strips was used to make the rug. It was hooked in weather-beaten red and brown shades, repeating the browns in the trees and fences. The evergreens, of course, were in green, snow-capped. The field stone underpinnings were toned in shades of gray. 'The picture does not show the different shades of color used to distinguish the mountains from the sky. The little houses in the distance were made in bright red, capped with snow. 'The little brook was done in gray and aqua shades. 'The sleigh was bright red, the horse brown, with a black harness. Mother and Father, in the sleigh, were dressed in gay colors, and the robe over them was bright green. G. Arden WA coms Elizabeth Williamson Most gardens are lovely to look at, borders of well-kept flowers and shrubs, paths leading to a summerhouse or pool. But how often do your friends exclaim as they are walking down these paths, except to give the ordinary compliments of "How lovely, how pretty, so orderly!" These remarks are like a stew without seasoning, good, but not very exciting. With a few unexpected accents in your garden, you will watch your friends stop short and say "What a delightful surprise! I didn't know you had a flair for such things." With a little ingenuity and planning, accent spots can be made, and you can have much pleasure and satisfaction in designing and making them. A Miniature Pool A small pool may be made from a big rock which has a natural depression or it may be a small, bean-shaped pool made of cement. The pool may be placed in a group of azaleas, surrounded by water plants and grasses, papyrus, miniature bamboo, or a bit of ground clover and mosses. Azaleas are especially suitable because they like the shade and filtered sunlight, and the shady places in your garden need the most accents. Otherwise, they often go unnoticed. An Unusual Border In a shady border, a patch of brilliant yellow flowers may be backed by gray succulents, dusty millers, Artemisias, and wormwood. Geraniums Three huge pots of bright pink geraniums may be placed at the corner of the garage. A Bird Bath Use a small concrete or stone bird bath or statue as the center of interest in one of your borders. Put in a ground cover of Ajuga or creeping thyme and add ferns of different heights to build up to a grouping of low pines or dwarf maples. Begonias Pale pink begonias seem to belong under an old oak tree. They give a nice accent to the gray-brown texture of the tree trunk. Page 192