OBITUARIES.

	DIED, at Hyde Park, Cache Co, U. T., Jan. 10th, 1887,
Rosella Ann Nelson, wife of John A. Nelson, and daughter
of George and Fanny Roys Seamons, born at Farmington,
Davis Co., May 19, 1863; moved to Hyde Park with her
parents in 1866; baptized June 11th, 1871, by Elder Robert
Daines.  Has lived in Hyde Park during her short life,
with but a few months' exception.  She was a good wife
and mother, and beloved by all who knew her.  She has
left a husband, three children and a large number of
friends to mourn her loss.  She died as she lived a faithful
Latter-day Saint, and is looking forward to a glorious resur-
rection with those who have gone before.

Yes, dear sister, thou hast left us,
But why count we thy absence loss?
Most precious deeds thou hast engrafted—
The Master pays well for the cost.

Oh! thy deeds were truly noble,
Yet thy presence we shall miss;
But we know if we are faithful
We shall meet in realms of bliss.
	COM.

[Column 2]
	DIED, at Egin Bingham Co., Idaho, Jan. 11th, 1887,
Mary Sophia Smith, daughter of Samuel and Cecelia Pros-
sen Smith, aged sixteen years, one month and five days.

	The following Resolutions of Respect were adopted by
the Y. L. M. I. A. of Parker Ward:
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father to take
from our midst our beloved sister and co-worker, M Sophia
Smith,
	Resolved, That we, as officers and members of the Y. L. 
M. I. A., do fondly cherish and respect her memory.  We
feel that it is the will of the great Omnipotent that she has
been called hence to a brighter sphere of action.
	Resolved, That we sincerely sympathize with the be-
reaved family, and especially with the stricken and widowed
mother.  While we deplore her loss, we feel to bow in
humble submission to Him who doeth all things well.
	Resolved, That a copy of these Resolutions be entered
on the record; also a copy be presented to the bereaved
family, and one to the EXPONENT for publication.
	MARY J. MILLER, Prest.,
	EMELINE WINEGAR, Coun.
Parker Ward, Egin, Bingham Co., Idaho, Jan 29, 1887.

	DIED, at Clifton, Oneida Co., Idaho, Feb. 9, 1887, of
child birth, Elizabeth Lydia Truscott Sant, daughter of 
John and Sarah Ann Truscott, born Dec. 8, 1864, at Mt.
Pleassnt, Sanpete Co, Utah. She was married to Thomas
Sant on the 10th of Oct., 1881. She leaves a husband and
three small children, one an infant two hours old, to mourn
her loss.  She died as she lived, a faithful Saint, beloved
by all who knew her.  We have lost a true friend and sister,
her husband has lost a kind and faithful wife, and her child-
ren a loving mother.  We sympathize with the bereaved
family in their loss, and hope we with them may meet her
in the morning of the first resurrection, where there is no
parting.

Cease, ye fond husband, cease to weep,
Let grief no more your bosom swell;
For what is death? ’Tis nature’s sleep,
The trump of God will break its spell;
For He, whose arm is strong to save,
Arose in triumph o'er the grave.

Why should you sorrow? death is sweet
To those that die in Jesus' love;
Though called to part we soon shall meet
In holier, happier climes above;
For all the faithful Christ will save,
And crown with victory o'er the grave.
	JANE M. HOWELL, Prest.,
