		    BARGAIN IN MUSIC.

	This Favorite Album of Songs and Ballads,
containing thirty-two pieces of choice and popu-
lar music, full sheet music size, with complete
words and music and piano accompaniment is
finely printed upon heavy paper, with a very
attractive cover.  The following are the titles
of the songs and ballads contained in the Fa-
vorite Album:—As I’d Nothing Else  to Do;
The Dear Old Songs of Home; Mother, Watch
the Little feet; Oh, You Pretty Blue-eyed
Witch; Blue Eyes; Katy’s Letter; The Passing
Bell; I Saw Esau Kissing Kate; Won’t You
Tell Me Why, Robin; The Old Garden Gate;
Down below the Waving Lindens; Faded
Leaves; All Among the Summer Roses; Touch
the Harp Gently, My Pretty Louise; I really
don't think I shall Marry; Dreaming of Home;
The old Cottage Clock: Across the Sea; A year
Ago; Bachelor’s Hall; Ruth and I; Good Night;
One Happy Year Ago; Jennie in the Orchard; 
The Old Barn Gate; Jack’s Farewell; Polly;
Whisper in the Twilight.  This is a very 
fine collection of real vocal jems, and gotten up
in very handsome style. Published in the
usual way and bought at a music store, these
32 pieces would cost you $11. 20.  We bought
a job lot of this music at a great sacrifice and as
the holidays are past, we desire to close out our
stock at once.  Will send you the entire collec-
tion well wrapped and postpaid for only 40
cts.  Send immediatelg.
	Address, The Empire News Co., Syracuse,
N. Y.


A recently published book is called “One
Hundred Distinguished Americans.”  Of the
members, but four are women, and these are 
Charlotte Cushman, Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, and Harriet Beecher Stowe.
Presumably they represent Art, Politics, Phi-
lanthropy and Literature.
	Mme. Patti-Nicolini’s will, made just before
she came to America last fall, gives half of
her fortune to her husband, one-fourth to her
brother-in-law, Mr. Strakosch, and one-fourth
to found “Patti scholarships” for the benefit of
promising girl singers in the large cities where
the testator has won her laurels.  Her grave,
she directs, is to be adorned with fresh flowers
all the year round, in token of her “having
lived surrounded by blossoms.”


