COMMENTS.

	These are memorable times in the history of
Utah, and of the Latter-day Saints. Important
questions are about being decided by this nation
that will have their effect upon the country and
the people at large, as well as the direct bearing
they have upon the interests of a few whose pe-
culiar belief and practices have given rise to such
momentous issues. A few years hence the na-
tion will have cause to regret that such bitter
prejudices so far influenced the rulers of this
great government as to cause them to break down
some of the most essential barriers in the bulwark
of freedom and religious liberty and establish so
dangerous a precedent, thereby undermining the
whole foundation on which rests the strength and
durability of a free and grand government that has
been the pride and boast of the patriots of Ameri-
ca, for "lo these many years."
	One whe loves his country cannot help mourn-
ing over the narrowness of soul exhibited by men
who sit in high places and look down with scorn
and treat as minions those who were born free and
equal with them to every right and privilege of
this glorious heritage bequeathed by the fore-
fathers of their country, Making a test oath to be
administered to every man and treating him as
though he were a criminal is indeed an outrage.
Heretofore one was supposed to be innocent un-
til he was proven guilty, but now the case is re-
versed and men in Utah must take certain oaths
made and defined for them or they  must be ex-
cluded from the right of citizenship. Women
who have voted for seventeen years are deprived
altogether without any consideration or right of
appeal, but as sure as this law goes into effect, so
sure have the lawmakers struck another blow,
that will sap the foundations of the tree of liberty
and human rights, for although the nation has not
as yet recognized the rights of women to partici-
pate in its governmental affairs (save through their
husbands, fathers, brothers and sons) yet the day
is not far distant when they will be glad to call
them to their aid to save the Constitution that they
are now wounding in its vital parts.
	It does not matter, some think, what indignities
are heaped upon the "Mormons" they deserve it
all, and harsh measures must be used to bring
them into line and make them respect the laws
made specially for thir condemnation. Is it not
self evident that they had not broken one of the
fundamental laws of the land when a law had to
be made expressly to punish them? And when
the enforcement of that law is made retro-active
what then? And how does that harmonize with the
principles of justice and equity? Has punishing
people for their religion ever accomplished the ob-
ject sought to be attained? History records no
such fact. Neither will the history now being
made in this country. The purposes of the Al-
mighty will not be thwarted, though all the gov-
ernments combine against Him. He holds the
destinies of both men and nations in His hand and

[Column 2]

He will not forsake his chosen people, though He
may suffer them to be afflicted and oppressed and
pass under the rod of chastisement that He may
prove their integrity and their valor, but in His own
due time He will make bare His arm in their de-
fense.

	There is so much transpiring every day of pub-
lic interest that it is next to impossible to record
even an item of each occurrence unless one makes
daily mention as events pass in hurried succes-
sion. Within the last two weeks there have been
almost daily dreadful  railroad casualities with
great loss of human life and the destruction
of much valuable property, murders and most
frightful accidents have been happening here and
there causing great sorrow and much fear, and the
recent tremendous earthquake in Southern Europe
with its fearful and tragical consequences com-
pletes one of the most unparalleled chapters of
horrors it is possible to conceive of. The loss of
human life and property and the hopelessness of
many who have had to suffer, homeless, destitute
and, as it were, without succor, has called out
many noble endeavors on the part of the humane
and philanthropic to aid, assist, provide for and
save from utter wretchedness the victims of this
appalling and heartrending convulsion of nature.
We realize to some extent the fulfillment of pre-
dictions by our modern prophets and leaders in
these sickening details of horrors. Some of our
leaders who have now past off this stage of action
have told the Lutter-day Saints, they would yet
grow sick to read the horrors daily recorded in the
publications of the times and turn from them be-
cause they were too soul-sickening. Those who
look over the columns of the daily dispatches now
know this is fast coming to pass. And things
seem to grow worse instead of better. There are
serious indications, of trouble among great nations,
and labor and social organized bodies are fast in-
creasing in power and strength.
	From these strongly organized forces there is
much to be feared, because of their hatred of su-
periority of influence, rank wealth and
social distinction and their utter abhorence of con-
trol. These levelers of rank and would be dis-
tributors of the wealth of nations and of peoples,
would stop at nothing in their mad 
course, were there not strong and
brave as well as cautious resistance
made to the innovations of such radicals who
have no idea of consistency or justice, and large
fortunes and hard earned means would be thus
scattered to the four winds, regardless of human
suffering, and who would be benefitted? Not the
poor, save in rare instances, temporarily. Such a
state of things means confusion, generally, and
she breaking down of the barriers that encompass
about those who are the makers and founders of
cities and manufacturies that give place and em-
ployment and protection to those who would des-
troy all the vital forces that make a nation's
strength and power.
	But God is in the tempest, the whirlwind and
the earthquake, and He suffers the elements to ac-
complish their work of swift destruction, for He
has said, "And after the testimony of my servants,"
etc., "and by the voice of thunderings, and by the
voice of lightnings, and by the voice of earth-
quakes, and great hail storms, and by the voice of
famines and pestilences," all these things have
been foretold. These judgments are not acknowl-
edged to be a part of the great programme of the
Almighty, save by the Latter-day Saints, neither
do the people understand that the nations are, as
it were, tottering on the brink of a social precipice,
that may at almost any moment give way from
some spasmodic cause and overwhelm those who
fancy themselves in perfect security, and under
the protection of the greatest and grandest of
human governments. That such an issue is at

[Column 3]

hand there are many indications, that wise men
should discern.

	The Edmunds-Tucker Bill, at this writing, still
lies harmless upon the President's table, awaiting
his signature. There is mnch querying and argu-
ing over the matter of his signature, but the
"Mormons" are making no great demonstrations
for or against this cruel bill; they trust in the same
God that delivered Daniel from the lions, and
know He is as able now to work a miracle in be-
half of His people as He was then. Should the
Edmunds-Tucker Bill become a law, and be en-
forced in this Territory, bringing the people who
settled this desert into greater bondage than they
are already suffering, it will ignominiously fail of
accomplishing what the fifty millions of people
have been asking for, because God is at the helm,
and it is His work they are fighting, and casting
men into prison and depriving them of votes or of
office, does not, and cannot destroy an eternal
principle, such as the Latter-day Saints know
celestial marriage to be.


