	TAYLORVILLE, WEST WEBER, WEBER CO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking no report of our organization as a
Relief Society in this place has ever been pub-
lished in our woman's paper, we send you the
following notice:
	The Taylorville Relief Society in the West
Weber Ward was organized June 25th, 1886,
our Stake President, Jane S. Richards, and
her Counselors, Hattie C. Brown and Emily
Shurtliff, being present, and assisted by the
ward president, Mary Douglass, and sanctioned
by the local authorities. Officers as follows:
Sarah Hunter, President; Ann Hadley and
Mary Hanson, Counselors; Madeline Farley,
Secretary; Ann Robb, Assistant Secretary;
Sarah Walker, Treasurer. Since that time
we have humbly endeavored to build up that
portion assigned to us.
	The 9th of November last was our Presi-
dent's birthday, which was devoted to sewing
until meeting hours were over, then after
meeting was dismissed, at 5 p.m., the sisters,
with some of the brethren, assembled at Coun.
Ann Hadley's (our rendezvous) and at precisely
7 p.m. we proceeded in a body, nearly fifty in
number, to the residence of acting Bishop,
James F. Hunter, and completely and agree-
ably surprised the inmates in honor of our
President's 48th birthday, who received the
assembly with an appropriate welcome, and
after partaking of an elegant repast, the even-
ing was spent by a series of very entertaining
exercises, consisting of anecdotes, recitations,
songs in several languages, speeches, including
a short address by the Secretary in behalf of
the Society to the President, which called forth
a heartfelt, grateful response from her, followed
by Brother Hunter, who, in his appreciative
speech, motioned that minutes be taken by the
Secretary, and sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
with the address for publication, and a copy
kept on record, which was unanimously ap-
proved, closing the entertainment with a fer-
vent benediction by acting Bishop, J. F. Hun-
ter, the assemblage dispersed at precisely 12
p.m.  All attending it said it bad been the
best entertainment they had ever participated
in.

Address to our beloved President, Sarah Hun-
ter:

	We have met here this evening all actuated
by the same motive, that of extending our con-
gratulations to and appreciation of one whom
to know is to love and respect, and in whom
our confidence is centered, and we consider
this a fit time and place to express the same
by our united presence.
	Although we have but recently been organ-
ized, and labored under your guidance, we
have learned to appreciate your worth, and ex-
perience has taught us that, with congenial
associations, love, like intelligence, by proper
cultivation, expands and increases, and such
we unitedly extend you, and concede you are
the right one in the right place, and trust our
love may continue and increase, and we may

[Column 2]

still be identified intact as a Society, with you
as President, when Zion is established and the
numerical figures indicating your age are re-
versed to 84, and we meet again for the same
purpose, is the wish of your sisters of the Re-
lief Society of Taylorsville.
