	  SPIRITUAL ARGUMENT.

	All Christians profess to believe in the words
of our Savior and the apostles, and also the
Old Testament prophets.  I would like to call
attention to their teachings as delivered by the
Holy Ghost, the spirit of truth, for our guid-
ance and edification.  The words of the Lord
to His disciples, St. Luke, vi, 20:
	"And he lifted up His eyes on His disciples
and said, Blessed are ye poor, for yours is the
kingdom of God.
	21. "Blessed are ye that hunger now, for ye
shall be filled.  Blessed are ye that weep now,
for ye shall laugh.
	22. "Blessed are ye when men shall hate
you, and when they shall separate you from
their company, and shall reproach you, and
shall cast out your name as evil for the Son of
man’s sake.
	23. "Rejoice ye, in that day, and leap for
joy, for, behold, your reward is great in heaven,
for in like manner did their fathers unto the
prophets.
	26. "Woe! unto you, when all men shall
speak well of you, for so did their fathers unto
the false prophets."
	Now, do not all sects and parties raise a hue
and cry of evil against the Latter-day Saints,
that we are poor, ignorant, and despised in the

[Column 2]
eyes of the world?  If we are, we can approach
our Elder Brother, and He will save us if we
follow Him into His fold.  The Porter openeth
the door, and He commandeth us to enter not
in any other way, which we must obey, or we
shall be accounted thieves and robbers.  We
are called sinners above all others, and are
pursued night and day to punish us for criminal
acts.  They say that the prophets of old
practiced and had God’s sanction, for He said,
"I came not to call the righteous, but sinners
to repentance." The last call is now made for
all to repent, everywhere, and be baptized for
the remission of sins and be buried in baptism
with Christ, that we may arise to newness of
life and lay a foundation of good works.  I
will quote from the 47th verse of the above
named chaper: "Whosoever cometh to me
and heareth my sayings, and doeth them, I
will shew you to whom he is like.
	“He is like a man which built a house, and
digged deep, and laid the foundation on a rock;
and when the flood arose, the stream beat
vehemently upon that house and could not
shake it, for it was founded upon a rock.
	"But he that heareth and doeth not, is like
a man that, without a foundation, built a house
upon the earth, against which the stream did
beat vehemently, and immediately it fell, and
the ruin of that house was great."
	The Church of Christ was built upon revela-
tion, and this was the rock that the Savior
told Peter He would build His Church upon,
"and the gates of hell shall not prevail against
it." Paul also testifies that he was convinced of
the Gospel by revelation and not by man, and
says; "But though we or, an angel from heaven,
preach any other gospel unto you, let him be
accursed," and repeats it in the following
verse.  John, in his second epistle, testifies to
the same: "If there come any unto you and
bring not this doctrine, receive him not into
your house, neither bid him God speed, for he
that biddeth him God speed is a partaker of
his evil deeds." Here is an injunction we
must give heed to, or we cannot be saved in
the kingdom of heaven.  Among all the
masses that believe different ways, how shall
we find the true Church of Christ?  Can we
find it among the sects?  No; they deny revela-
tion.  John the Revelator was told, John i, 19:
	"Write the things which thou hast seen, and
the things which are and the things which
shall be hereafter."
	xiii, 6: "And I saw another angel fly in
the midst of heaven, having the everlasting
Gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the
earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and
tongue, and people."
	This was the same Gospel that Christ told
John and the rest of His disciples to go and
preach after His resurrection.  This was to
take place just before the fall of Babylon,
which we read in the 8th verse following.
	Dear reader, if you wish to make further
research of the true Gospel, read the last
chapters of St. Matthew and St. Mark.  The
Savior said, "He that breaketh one of the
least of these commandments, and teach men
so, shall be called the least in the kingdom of 
heaven." Paul is very plain in 1st Cor. con-
cerning the gifts in the Church, which all may
read and be informed on and edified, as the
Scriptures have no private interpretation.  Now
is the accepted time, now is the day of salva-
tion.  The Lord is not willing that any should
perish, but that all should come to repentance,
for he says, "Come unto me, all ye ends of the
earth, and be ye saved."
	But the day of the Lord will come as a
thief in the night, in the which the heavens
shall pass away with a great noise, and the
elements shall melt with fervent heat; the
earth, also, and the works that are therein
shall be burned up.”

[Column 3]
	2nd Peter: "When the Son of man shall
come in His glory, and all the holy angles
with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of
His glory; and before Him shall be gathered
all nations, and He shall separate them one
from another, as a shepherd divideth His sheep
from the goats; and He shall set the sheep on
His right hand, but the goats on the left." St.
Matthew, chapter 25.  Then the Savior tells
the righteous what they have done to Him, and
those on the left hand, what they had not done
to Him.  That inasmuch as they had done it,
or had not done it to the least of His brethren,
they had not done it to Him.  Will not the
Elders of the Church of this last dispensation,
be among this number, that went hungry,
thirsty, naked, sick, in prison and a stranger
among strangers, to preach the Gospel of the
Son of God, without purse or scrip, at His
bidding?  Who will reward them and set
them at His right hand?  I say, my brethren,
yes; be comforted by these the Savior’s words:
"Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the
kingdom prepared for you from the foundation
of the world." And you, also, my sisters, who
are called to suffer with your husbands for the
Gospel’s sake, will share this blessing with
them at the right hand of the King of kings,
for they that are sealed on earth are sealed in
heaven; and they whom God hath joined to-
gether let no man put asunder." The holy
Melchisedec Priesthood has power to bind and
to loose.  How much did our good Congress-
men understand the passage of scripture they
quoted upon the Edmunds Bill, "And they 
twain shall become one flesh." Paul to the
Ephesians,5th chapter, and members of Christ’s
Church, he was giving instructions to, and not
outsiders, says: "For we are members of
His body, of His flesh aud’ of His bones."
Could not wives become members of the man’s
body under the same head?  Read what the
next verse says: "For this cause shall a man
leave his father and mother, and shall be joined
unto his wife, and they two shall be one flesh.
This is a great mystery, but I speak concern-
ing Christ and the Church."
	In the former chapter it reads, 4th verse:
"There is one body and one spirit, even as ye
are called in one hope of your calling;
	5. "One Lord, one faith, one baptism.
	6. "One God and Father of all, who is above
all, and through all and in you all.
	8. "Wherefore He saith, When He ascended
up on high, He led captivity captive, and gave
gifts unto men.
	11. "And He gave some, apostles; and some,
prophets; aud some, evangelists; and some, pas-
tors and teachers;
	12. "For the perfecting of the saints, for the
work of the ministry, for the edifying of the
body of Christ:
	13.  "Till we all come in the unity of the
faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of
God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of
the stature of the fulness of Christ:
	14. "That we henceforth be no more children,
tossed to and fro, and carried about with every
wind of doctrine, by the sleight of men, and
cunning craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to
deceive."
	The Savior has not at any time returned and
changed this order of things; therefore, the
Latter-day Saints are true believers in the
word of God and in the revelations of our
Lord and Savior.  One of the ten command-
ments reads thus; "Thou shalt not bear false
witness against they neighbor." There is not a
day passes but that false witness is borne
against this people.  Thou shalt not covet thy
neighbor’s house, nor his wife, nor anything
that is thy neighbors, etc.  How is it with our
liberal neighbors, do they not covet what it is                
our right to possess?  Offences must come, but
woe! unto them by whom they come.
