FBEE LIBRARY AND READING ROOM.

	On Friday evening the first of a series of socia-
bles was held in the Fourteenth Ward, the object
of which is to obtain means for the establishment
of a free library and reading room. The party
was successful in every way, a refined and artistic
entertainment being given and the sum of forty
dollars obtained as its financial result.
	We believe the project will find favor in most
quarters. Places where our young people can
spend an evening in pleasurable society for the im-
provement of their minds, must have a beneficial
tendancy if properly conducted. There should,in
our opinion, be several of these institutions in this
city, and one at least in every populous town in
Utah. Young people by these means may be kept
from roaming the streets at night, or visiting re-
sorts where moral and intellectual culture are
farthest from thought and practice.
	We understand that the intention in this case is
to provide facilities for the youth and others of
our own people to gain useful knowledge and lit-
erary entertainment. Care will have to be taken
that the reading room is kept free from improper
attendance. Rules will have to be adopted, in the
onset, with this object in view. That which is in-
tended for good may be turned into a vehicle of
evil. But this may be said of everything designed
for the nature,use and benefit of mankind. Precau-
tions may be devised to keep the institution free
from evil and preserve it to the purposes de-
signed.
	We learn that President Taylor as Trustee in
Trust has signified his approval of the movement
in a characteristic and forcible manner, by for-
warding a hundred dollars by way of donation to
the purpose in view. He has also expressed his
opinion that "A free library and reading room
properly managed, would be a most excellent in-
stitution for the young people." The words we
have placed in italics should be particularly noticed
Gifts of books are being received from various
quarters and leading men are endorsing the move-
ment, which we believe will be carried forward to
deserved success.


﻿We hope that the Latter-day Saints of this city
and its vicinity will do all they can consistently to
aid in establishing a good and extensive library,
which will not only be for the use of the Four-
teenth Ward, where it is to be located, but for
members of the Church generally in this neighbor-
hood.—Deseret News.


[Column 1]

