SISTER S. W. TAYLOR.

	Sister Sophia Whitaker Taylor, Wife of Presi-
dent John Taylor, expired at her residence in the
Fourteenth Ward, on Sunday, Feb. 27, 1887. The
deceased was born at Blakedown, near Kidder-
minster, Worcestershire, England, April 21st, 1825,
and was consequently nearing the close of her
62nd year. At the time the late President Young,
Presidnt Taylor and other members of the
Quorum of the Twelve Apostles were in the mis-


sionary field in England, in 1840, she was living
with her sister in Liverpool, and those brethren
were by them hospitably entertained. In that
year she embraced the Gospel, and from that pe-
riod to the hour of her death was a consistent and
conscientious Latter-day Saint. She emigrated
to this country at an early day, and was married to
President John Taylor in 1847, at Winter Quar-
ters, after the expulsion of the Saints from Nau-
voo. She came to this valley in Pioneer year,
landing upon the site upon which Salt Lake now
stands, October 2nd, 1847. She has four sons and
two daughters.
	Sister Taylor was a most estimable woman,
modest and unassuming in her nature, her chief
interest being centered in the proper rearing of
her family. Having been with the Church in its
earlier phases, and having come to this valley be-
fore it was settled, she necessarilly had to endure
many privations of a trying nature. She bore
them all with that Christian fortitude which was a
leading feature of her character. No matter what
were the circumstances of her experience in bat-
tling in unison with her respected husband, with
the difficulties incident to the development of a
new country, no murmur of complaint ever es-
caped her lips. Her dying hours were not sol-
aced by the presence of her husband, the latter be-
ing under the ban of a mistaken and cruel policy
which deprives him of the exercise of his liberty
and drives him into exile, but her friends have the
comforting assurance that she has gone to a sphere
where she will enjoy the undisturbed peace which
is the heritage of the righteous when freed from the
toils of mortality.—Ex.


