EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The officers of the Primary Associations of this
Stake will hold a meeting next Saturday March
5th, at the residence of Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson,
First Street, at one p.m. A full attendance is
desirable. The semi annual reports from all the
Primaries in the Stake are wanted by that time.
Send them to the Stake Secretary, Miss Bessie
Dean, No. 77, Peach Street, 19th Ward, that a re-
port may be prepared for the coming conference.
	The conference of the Relief Society of this
Stake will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms on Thursday March 17, 1887, commencing
at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. A punctual attendance of
representative officers is earnestly desired and all
those interested in this benevolent work are cor-
dially invited to be present.
	On Friday, March 18, the Y. L. M. I. A. of this
Stake will hold its conference and the meetings
will commence at the same hours, viz., 10 a.m. and
2 p.m. It is time for written semi annual reports,
yet it is quite as important that presidents and
others should attend as though they were expected
to make verbal reports. It is encouraging to see
a full attendance and always adds interest to the
meetings. All interested in the improvement and
advancement of the young people should make a
point of attending these conferences and encour-
age those who labor so efficiently in these organi-
zations.
	The Conference of the Primary Associations of
this Stake will be held in the Assembly Hall on
Saturday March 19, and the several Presidents of
the respective associations in this Stake it is hoped
will make an effort to attend and have some re-
presentation from each of the associations. These
conferences ought to be a matter of interest to all
as well as to the presiding officers. It is a beauti-
ful sight to see so many children brought together
and hear their exercises, and all Latter-day Saints
desire the spiritual interest of the youth of Zion.
It is hoped there will be a large attendance from
all parts of the country.


