RETROSPECTIVE AND PROSPECTIVE.

	For many centuries gone by, 'twixt heav'n
And earth, silence had reigned. The voice of God,
The great Eternal, who called Abram forth
To leave his kindred and his native land,
Had not, for ages, reached a mortal ear.
Fools in their hearts declared, "there is no God."

	Though Jesus said, "Except you're one, you are
Not mine," the christian sects, who claim to have
The Gospel as He taught were multiplied,
And each contending for the preference,
And all maintained, the body of the Lord
Is represented by the church on earth.
But if these sects can be acknowledg'd His,
What a vast multitude of bodies? Else,
His one, must be in many fragments torn.

	The wheel of time roll'd on, and met the verge
Of a new Dispensation—this the last—
The closing one—the set, th' appointed time
For God to do a strange—a wonder work,
Preparatory to Messiah's reign.

	Prefacing this august, sublime event,
The long, long silence must be broken, and
The voice of God, on earth be heard once more.
As was His wont whene'er He converse held
With mortal man, He'd prophets at command
To bear His messages and teach His will.
For this grand purpose He had raised up one—
An unsophisticated, honest youth,
Whom He had chosen and had foreordain'd
To see His face, His voice to hear—to take
The lead in the last Dispensation of
A fallen world- to stop the downward ebb
Of life's corrupted stream, and bid it through
A purifying channel, upward flow—
To organize the Church of Jesus Christ
Precisely by the former pattern given,
With Prophets and Apostles, governments;
With gifts and pow'rs to heal—authority
To cast out devils, and to speak in tongues.
A Church which Jesus Christ will own as His.

	The Prophet did God's bidding, tho' opposed
By hellish wrath and human ignorance.
	Unfetter'd and undwarf'd by man-made creeds,
His mind soared upward to the living Fount
 Of truth and wisdom, knowledge, faith and power.
He master'd languages and sciences,
And principles of vast eternal weight—
A worker and a student till his death.
Having performed a mission great and grand,
He sealed his testimony with his blood.
		
	But yet the Church of Christ of latter days,
Which by the Prophet God established, lives, 
And will, altho, opposed by earth and hell.
	Though persecution, which our Savior said
Would be the lot of those who follow Him,
Has oft, full oft, with arms outstretch'd the path
Bestrode the Church has never made a halt.
Oft times from place to place by mobbers driven;
And last of all they drove us from Nauvoo,
To go as Abram did we knew not where. 
Perchance they wished—they hoped—they thought
We'd starve and die, and buzzards fatten on
Our flesh—our bones be left to bleach upon
The lone wild waste, untrod by human foot;
But God was with us and they knew it not.
He, by His noble Chieftain, Brigham, Young,
With wisdom from the courts on high endowed,
Led to these isolated mountain vales—
A desert wilderness, a fertile waste—
A crowning climax of all dreamness.
But peace was here, sweet peace, our legal claim,
Usurp'd by those who forced our exile flight.
For centuries the soil unstir'd had slept
The sleep of death, while none but savage feet

[Column 2]

Had kissed the sod. No tree nor-shrub adorned
This Salt Lake City Plat. The mountains then
With their attraction's uncontested charm,
Drew to their summits all of showers, and left
The valleys dry.
	
	And here we were The Church
Of God, the Saints of Latter-day, must draw
Forth from this death-wrap'd soil, a sustenance,
Or perish. What a predicament! Who
Of mortal mould unarm'd with mighty faith
In the eternal God, but would have quailed
Before the ghastly prospect's sullen scowl?
Not so the Saints; in the Almighty arm
We put our trust; with willing hearts and hands,
Nerv'd by a living faith, we worked and prayed,
And with thanksgiving ate our scanty bread.

	We dug the channels for the water's course,
And tapp'd the creeks (the creeks were very few
And far between) and strewed their waters on
The thirsty land, which drank, and craved, and drank
Till it revived and brought forth nourishment.
We tore the saplings from the mountain's brow,
Which grew the lovely shade trees that adorn
Our cities' side-walks, and in summer heat,
Produce a grateful, cool, refreshing shade.
	
	Yes, such it was, and what is Utah now?
The boast of friends, and envy of our foes.

	Who wrought the change? God and His faithful Saints,
And made "the desert blossom as the rose."

	A crusade now inaugurated in
Our midst, retards progression's onward move.
But what disturbers of our peace shall do
Against the Church, will be o'erruled for good.

	The Almighty's drama will enacted be—
Each acts a part—to all, the choice is free.
Our persecutors make a sad mistake,
They earn our pity by the choice they make:
All in the harvest reap the crop we sow,
And they in theirs, will garner only woe.
Who shed the blood of innocence will feel
The wrath of God, from which there's no appeal.
Our foes, in blindness, now exult and think
The Church, beneath their lash, is bound to sink:
Crushed, it may seem, in their distorted view,
And still be gaining strength and prestige too:
From vile oppression's bondage 'twill come forth
In glorious light, with power to gladden earth,
	
	But ere the drama's close, and curtains fall,
Will good result from scenes which now appall—
This Crusade furnace-heat will purify
The Church from hypocrites, and all that lie—
From those whose hearts are set on worldly gain,
And all who sacred cov'nants break in twain.
Then Truth and Justice will resume their throne,
And man's oppressiveness shall be unknown.
The Son of God, the Prince will come again,
With all His Saints, in majesty to reign.

