DAVIS STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference of
the Davis Stake of Zion, held at Centerville,
January 21st, 1887, Prest. Susan Grant presid-
ing. Meeting opened by singing. Prayer by
Prest. Smith. Continued by singing.
	Prest. Grant said, "I am sorry it is so dis-
agreeable a day; I presume it has prevented
many from coming out. We have Sisters E.
S. Taylor and M. W. Snow from the city here
with us; also President Smith, and we will
have a good meeting if there are but a few of
us. We will hear from the psesidents of the
branches that are here."
	Sister Muir represented West Bountiful;
Prest. Lucinda Sessions, East Bountiful; Prest.
Randall, Centerville.
	After singing, Prest. Grant made some good
remarks, and said she had not visited the
different branches of the Society before this
conference, but would have been glad to.
"When we do visit we find a good, peaceful
spirit. Joseph Smith said the Church was
not fully organized till the Relief Society was
organized. I used to think when we attended
to our household affairs we had done about
enough, but we can arrange our work so as to
attend our meetings if we have a desire to, but
I would not advise mothers to neglect their
children on any account. Our enemies are
working against us, but they will not be able
to do more than what will be for the further-
ance of God's work upon the earth; all we
have to do is to live up to our duties. I pray
the Lord to qualify us to perform them in an
acceptable way.
	Coun. Mary S. Clark said, "I am pleased to
meet with you to-day. We should be prepared
all the time for any event that may befall us.
The enemy are upon us, but they are in the
hands of the Lord, and so are we; the eye of
the Lord is upon us; we have got to pass through
with a great deal yet; let us strive to do all the
good we can. I feel that we have nothing to
discourage us; all is right in Zion. We should
qualify ourselves to teach our children. It is
a great care to raise a family and bring them
up right. Mothers, watch over your children
and keep them home at night. Girls should
be careful in choosing a husband; they have
the privilege of fasting and praying, that they,
may get a companion that they can look up to
and be a good father to their children, a man of
God. May we live faithful, that we may see
Zion redeemed."
	Sister Brown said, "When I meet with the
sisters I feel a union; and why should we not
be as one? for every one else is against us. My
blessing says that I will live to see the day
that all evil will be put down. President
Cleveland said he was sorry that we were not
like them, but I am sorry that we are so much
like them as we are; we are so mixed up that
we partake of their ways." Spoke upon dress,
and said she would like to live, and desired to
be one with her sisters to help bring about
righteousness. "It is our duty to act in every
capacity that we are called upon to. I ask
your prayers, that I may be able to do my
duty."
	Bishop Cheny: "I have been well paid in
being a member of this meeting, and pleased
to hear the reports. I think the sisters attend
to their meetings better than the brethren do.
Our mothers are more excusable for not attend-
ing their meetings than the fathers, for their
cares are many. We have had very good
counsel from our sisters, especially when they

[Column 3]

spoke about the children; parents will be ac-
countable for the children; parents should
practice what they preach, or it will lead to
infidelity with their children." Said how
necessary it was to thoroughly understand the
principles of the Gospel. "This persecution
should cause us to live near the Lord. Our
prayers should be short and right to the point.
We can do as much good right here at home
as to go on missions. We cannot commence
the education of a child too young; and it
would not be amiss for you sisters to give
lectures on housekeeping." Spoke of dress,
and exhorted the people to keep fast day.
	Meeting adjourned till two o'clock, with
singing and a benediction by Bishop Cheny.
	Afternoon session: Commenced with singing.
Prayer by Bro. Randal. Singing.
	Sister E. S. Taylor: "The Relief Society
was organized by Joseph Smith; he said the
Church was not fully organized without it.
Emma was called an elect lady, and you hold
the same position, and do you realize the re-
sponsibility resting upon you, and what is
required at your hands, and how you perform
your duties? If you as officers are recreant in
your duties it will not be so well with you; it
don’t matter, however, whether you are officers
or members, you have duties to perform, you
have pledged yourselves to help carry on the
Society; go with prayerful hearts; the work
you do there is for the poor; there are many
poor among us, and it is our duty to help take
care of them, and see that they have proper
care. Some are very ungrateful for the help
they receive but it is their duty to be grateful.
I don't consider it our duty to administer to
those that are not willing to help themselves.
We should not neglect our home duties; home
should be the sweetest place on earth. I thank
God that I have been associated with the
Saints. If you are faithful in your organiza-
tions you will be benefitted. Sisters, go to
your meetings, and talk about housekeeping;
have a place for everything, and everything in
its place. We have a right to go before the
Lord with our daughters; and make it a matter
of prayer when they want to select a husband;
our future happiness depends upon it. Mothers,
keep the confidence of your sons as well as
your daughters; it is a safe guard, to any son
or daughter that will make a confident of the
mother. We have been promised if we do our
duty that the Lord would gather our children
in the fold, teach them to be pure and virtuous.
I would like to speak about the minutes; it is
not necessary to have them lengthy; if there is
any particular instruction given it should be
noticed in the minutes. Spoke about sending
our children to Gentile schools. Said, "I
would rather my children did not have a par-
ticle of education more than what I could
teach them, than to have them go to them.
Give your children a spiritual education, and
they will be all right. My prayer is that we
may gain an exaltation in the kingdom of
God."
	Sister Minerva W. Snow: "I am pleased to
meet with you, though most of you are
strangers to me, but still do not seem like
strangers as long as we belong to the same
faith. I desire your faith and prayers. You
are blest in having your President here; there
are so many men that have to be away. I was
a member in the Society in Nauvoo; I heard
Brother Joseph say that every sister belonging
to the Church should have her name enrolled
in the Society. I would encourage my sisters
to come to these meetings; there are many
things that can be talked about here that can-
not be spoken of in other meetings. Teach
your daughters to be good housekeepers; be
careful and prudent; I believe we will have to
give an account for that which the Lord has
put in our hands." Spoke about being charit-
able, and the responsibility resting on mothers.


"Teach your children to pray, and if they do
go astray it will sometimes bring them back;
the impression made upon a child's mind is
lasting; there is a great deal in being obedient
to those that are placed over us. We are all
trying to build up our Father's kingdom on
the earth. I feel that I can see the hand of
Lord over us and over the world, and if we
are faithful the Lord will take us safe through;
we have got to sacrifice everything for the
Gospel, and it is worth everything. I know
that the principle of plural marriage is true;
I heard Joseph teach it; he sealed me to my
husband. Let it be the feeling of your heart
that God is at the helm. When we are old
and look back on a well spent life, what a joy
it will be. Be careful about breaking your
covenants; teach your children to have faith in
the ordinances of the Church, and not have
doctors. We want to live near the Lord every
day; we want union, power and strength, and
a firm and decided mind, that we will serve
God let what will come. May we labor faith-
ful and diligent, that we may all meet beyond
the veil."
	Prest. Smith: "I never was in a meeting
where so many points were touched upon for
benefit.  I take great satisfaction in attending
these meetings; I know this is an organization
of the kingdom of God. In regard to prayer,
there are many prayers offered at the same
time; some may think that the Lord cannot
hear them all, but through the system He has
organized, He can hear and answer prayers.
Some of the sisters spoke about making good
bread; it is very essential, also, to make good
butter. I would like to speak about the fash-
ions; I think if the presidents of the different
branches, and the leading women, would meet
together and make their own fashions and
follow them, it would be better than to follow
the Gentile fashions. I have suggested this
for the benefit of my sisters, and exercise your
influence in bringing about this desired effect.
May the Lord bless you. Amen."
	Prest. Grant: "I feel that our time has been
well spent, and hope we will treasure up what
we have heard. This matter of dress we must
meditate upon, and I hope we will be willing
to lay aside all Gentile fashions. We will now
adjourn for three months, to meet at Farming-
ton."
	Singing, "Lord, dismiss us with thy bless-
ing." Benediction by Bro. Randal.
		Sec.


