NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

	Miss Anna Hallowell has received the honor
of an appointment to the Philadelphia Board
of Education.
	Mrs. Richard H. Dana and Mrs. Annie
Thorpe, daughters of the poet Longfellow, in-
tend soon to build a double house in Cambridge
for their own residence.
	Miss Mary Johnston (Marie Decca) was re-
cently presented by a group of her admirers
in Paris with a robe in cloth of silver, former-
ly the property of Queen Louisa of Prussia.
	Mrs. Mary Nash Agnew, the wife of Dr. C.
R. Agnew, the oculist, and Miss Grace H.
Dodge, have been appointed commissioners of
common schools in New York City, to hold
 office for three years from January 1st, 1887.
	Mrs. Henry Wood, author of “East Lynn,”
and about twenty other novels, and editor of
the Argosy, is dead.  Her maiden name was
Ellen Price.  Her first novel, published in
England in 1860, gained the $500 prize offered
the Scottish Temperance League.
	Mrs. Horace Mann, who has just died, was
a sister of Nathaniel Hawthorne’s wife and of
Miss Elizabeth Peabody.  She wrote a life of
her husband, and a little book on “Christianity
in the Kitchen,” as well as articles for various
periodicals.  She was warmly interested in
education.
	The Empress Augusta presents every woman
servant in Prussia who completes her fortieth
year of unbroken service in one family, with a
gold cross and diploma, bearing the imperial
autograph signature.  During the past eight
years she has thus honored one thousand, one
hundred and fifty-six servants.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall, in the Indianapolis
Saturday Herald, ably and caustically reviews
Mrs. E. Lynn Linton’s argument against the
higher education and says: “If one is seeking
the causes of the numerical decrease and the
physical degeneration of American families,
let him not look to the fractional one per cent
of college-bred women, but to the eighty-eight
per cent of tobacco-chewing, cigarette-smoking
men.  The dwarling, devitalizing effects of to-
bacco being removed, it will be time enough to
consider to what degree the higher education
is reducing the numbers and enfeebling the ca-
pacity of the Anglo-Saxon stock.”


Sometimes the “heaviest wheat of all” may
spring up from seeds dropped in an accidental
way.  What a motive to the maintenance of
personal holiness!  The accidental is a shadow
of the intentional.  Influence is the exhalation
of character.—W. M. Taylor.
	In the service of God the alteration of an
ordinance of Christ may seem to be a pure
matter of indifference, and yet in that altera-
tion there may be the taking away of the very
vitals of the ordinance, and the total destruc-
tion of its meaning.—Spurgeon.


152
