 ﻿A SKETCH OF MADAME RECAMIER.

	One of the most charming and lovable of
characters in the social drama of France, dur-
ing the period of the rise and fall of Bonepart,
and the restoration of the Bourbons, was that
of Julie Adelaide Bernard, Madame Recamier,
known to her dear friends as Juliette. She
was born in the city of Lyons, December 1777,
educated like most French girls at a convent,
which she left at the age of fifteen, and came
with her parents to reside in Paris. Shortly
after, she was married to a wealthy banker, 
M. Jacques Recamier,and according to French

[Column 2]

customs, began to see life, from its social stand-
point.
	The marriage was arranged by her parents.
and. as her husband was thrice her
age, it is pretty safe to say, was
altogether a marriage of convenience,
though she always entertained for M.
Recamier a sincere regard, and that he adored
her is plain to be seen in the following extract
from one of his letters to her: "I have always
made it the rule and happiness of my life to
respect your wishes, tastes, affections, and sup-
posed religious obligations to friendship."
	As this is by no means an historical sketch
the above will serve as an introduction to this
beautiful woman,and those lovable traits in her
character; which is the object I have in view.
	When the horrors of the reign of terror were
ended, and even the people of France were
sated with cruelties and blood; they turned to
the delights of social intercourse, with intense
eagerness. It was at this time that Madame
Recamier appeared upon the scene, dazzling
all with her matchless loveliness; beautiful as
a Houri, she became at once a social loadstone,
luring great and small to her side, by her
beauty and fascinating grace of manner.
	It is said that to a Frenchman, talking is one
of the necessities of life. The salon of the
Frenchwoman grew out of this necessity; and
a grand advance in civilization it was. It
opened the way for the introduction into social
andliterary life of such as Madame Rambouillet,
Madame de Stael,Madame Recamier and scores
of others which gave these women of genius
and talent the opportunity of comparing, re-
freshing and adding fresh stores of knowledge
to their minds, by social intercourse with the
great and gifted of their day. Aye, and aid-
ing and acting as guiding stars, by their grace
of presence, open hospitalities and charming
friendships to many a hero, who, but for their
kind words and generous help, would have been
both "to fortune and to fame unknown."
	The woman who possessed the intellect the
power of entertainment, which could draw to
her salon the great minds of the day, where
were discussed the literature, the drama, the
politics, the everything that constituted French
society, well earned the sobriquet of, potentate
in petticoats.
	It is to be regretted that England and
America have no counterpart of the French
salon; that delightful resort where the only ob-
ligation is to contribute to the general enjoy-
ment by being agreeable and entertaining, ac-
cording to your best ability, where all are
expected to throw aside petty personalities and
meeting upon neutral ground, each enjoy the
treasures of the other's mind, gain new ideas,
discuss the old, and all with frank good na-
ture.
	Such was the salon of Madame Recamier
who added also that element of undefiable deli-
cacy and refinement and guided the conversa-
tion over shallows and rapids, with a grace and
tact almost amounting to genius.
	Without possessing the depth and brilliancy 
of intellect which characterized her friend
Madame de Stael, of whom Goethe said, "one
must become all ears to follow her," Madame
Recamier had good literary taste and ability,
and though she published nothing under her
name, we find her collecting historical facts for
M. de Chateaubriand, as well as assisting in the
preparation of a volume of extracts from the


[Column 1]
﻿works of Ballanche and Camille Jordan pays
her the great compliment of asking her to give
him her impressions of the new regime early in
the reign of Louis XVIII., and adds "you
know how I delight to hear you, with your
pure and discriminating mind, talk on all sub-
jects, even the most serious." This was a rare
compliment, as Jordan was not a man to in-
dulge in fulsome flattery.  She was gifted with
that most delightful of all good gi[-]ts, rare tact,
and it was one of her chief charms that she
could draw out the real worth of people, show-
ing them off to their best advantage, without
them suspecting  her of being the cause of 
the exhibition of their talents.
	Authors and new luminaries of the dramatic,
literary and musical world came first to the
salon of Mme. Recamier,to test their powers and
the criticisms of those congregated there.  Even
the great Rachael did not disdain to declaim a 
new piece there. before trusting to the public
to decide its merits.  It was here, also, the pro-
ductions of Chateaubriands’ great mind were
first given to the select circle of friends, who
basked  in  the  sunshine   of this  beautiful
woman’s friendship.
	Madame Recamier fulfilled a great social
mission, not so much by rare intellectual gifts
or personal charms as by her real womanhood.
This great beauty, this queen of society, had
every excuse to be vain, frivolous and selfish,
yet she always rose above the temptation, and
was directly the opposite; a most lovely gracious
woman; sincere, earnest, disinterested; neither
hardened by worldliness, or soured by baffled
affections; but preserving even in old age and
blindness and amid reverses of fortune, that
sweetness and serenity which marked her char-
acter in its happiest days.  Holding her un-
disputed sway in a marvelous manner over
men and women alike, not only by her person-
al loveliness, but by her sympathy and ex-
quisite tact.
	It would be nonsense to ascribe the happy
influence she exerted on all about her, the com-
fort she afforded, the culture and progress she
advanced to idle coquetry.  It is ridiculous to
suppose that a  merely  worldly minded, but
beautiful woman, no matter how bewitching 
her manner, could inspire the life long friend-
ships with the gifted and brave, which Madame
Recamier inspired, and which it was her privi-
lege to enjoy during her life.  No, such are
not won by mere blandishments; neither are
enduring memories of grace and congeniality
thus bequeathed.
	The friendships of this charming woman
were unexampled for warmth and lasting at-
tachment; and she was fond of saying, "That
there was a certain taste in perfect friendship
to which common place characters could never
attain."
	Rare, indeed, are the friendships that have
been so perfect in character and endurance, as
those between Madame Recamier and Madame
de Stael, Ballanche, Chateaubriand and
Amphere; friendships that bore rich fruits
of culture and refinement, that died not with
youth or health, that absence did not diminish
nor loss of fortune quench.
	Think of a woman like Mme. de Stael, who
was so jealous of her power, she disliked to
hear of her male admirers getting married,
welcoming with a lavish cordiality to her heart
and home, so formidable a rival as the fair
Juliette, and who seems never to have felt a 
jealous pang, even when she sees her former
admirers at the feet of the Enchantress.  Mme.
de Stael seemed content with her intellectual 
fame and accorded Juliette the full sway of
the empire of beauty, as she says, "because you
are eminently good, and it seems only natural 
that so sweet a soul should be expressed by so
charming a face.	*	   *	     *		*	*
Amid all your successes you are, and ever will
reamin an angel of purity and goodness."	 *

[Column 2]
*	  *	   Extract from letter to Mme. R. from
Mme. de Stael.
	Ma[-]ame Recaimer had a way of being in-
terested in everyone’s fate as though it was a 
matter of personal comfort, and people turned
to her for sympathy, as naturally as flowers to
the sun.
	At the age of forty, she took upon herself
the task of educating the little niece of M.
Recamier, a motherless girl of six summers,
and fulfilled the task with all the devotion and
earnestness of a fond mother having her al-
ways with her, and not only superintending the
child’s lessons, but directly instructing her.
Being passionately fond of music, she delighted
in teaching her niece this accomplishment,
wherever she traveled the child went also and
was indeed cared for,as though she had been her
own.  Little Amelia proved most grateful and
affectionate and loved Madame Recamier with
all the devotion of a daughter; it was in her
arms she breathed her last, and by her has she
been most sincerely lamented.
	To a woman whose whole life was given to
social obligations, the care of this child must
have been to Madame Ricamier a great sacri-
fice, but if it was so, no one was ever conscious
of it; nor in fact was any one ever allowed to
feel an obligation to her.  The sunshine of her
soul prevaded, the household over which she
presided, chasing away all gloom.
	She was not a specially brilliant woman, yet
her wit was sparkling and vivacious; and Mme.
Mohl said of her, "I never knew so entertaing
a person; no one could tell a story as she did,
she had a great sense of humor, and her own
was exceedingly delicate; but she never said an
unkind thing of anyone." Therein, I am sure,
lies the true secret of her charm, and Madame
Mohl adds, as do all her friends, "I loved Mme.
Recamier." Who could wish for a more beauti-
ful epitaph than these words of this famous
woman.  Madame Recamier’s friendship for
Chateaubriand, proved both her amiability and
powers of entertaining, for the great poet had
grown weary even of flattery, and it is said he
died not so much from disease as ennui; yet
this delicate, beautiful old blind woman never
failed to interest and amuse him, and was to
the day of his death a devoted friend.  As a 
queen of French society she swayed her social
sceptre, for full fifty years, with such bewilder-
ing grace, such rare sweetness and amiability,
a charm so potent, that her empire ended only
with her life. 
	The death of her beloved friends, Ballanche
and Chateaubriand; following each other so
closely, was a sad shock to the sensitive soul of
Madame Recamier.  Just before the death of the
former,she had submitted to a successful opera-
tion for cataract; but she wept away the newly 
recovered sight at his death bed.  The delicate
state of her health, her depression, and a great
fear she had always had of cholera, probably 
made her more susceptible to its dread influ-
ence, and when it made its appearance in Paris
in the spring of 1849, she became an easy vic-
tim expiring May the 11th after a few hours of
great agony.
	Thus ended the life of one of the most
beautiful of women possessed of a charming and
lovable character, and because her life was so
true; her friendship so inspiring, her influence
so benign, is her memory so beloved.
		Friendship! mysterious cement of the soul!
		Sweetner of life! and solder of society."
										MYSOTIS.
	Feb. 22nd 1887.


