THEORY VS. PRACTICE.

	"Attend unto my cry;for I am brought very low: deliver me
from my persecutors; for they are stronger than I.—Psalms.

	I think the situation of the Psalmist, David, was
much like our own at the present time, and if we
have profited by what we have read of God's deal-
ings with his people in all ages of the world, that
we have any history of, recorded in the Bible or
Book of Mormon, we can but see, I think, "that
we have done something that we ought not to have
done, or left undone, something that we should
have done." In other words that for our trans-
gressions God is putting it into the power of our
enemies to persecute us. I think we would do
well to leave our enemies in his hands, and turn
our attention to ourselves, and see if we are keep-
ing his commandments and those of our own
house,over whom we have control. Do we live the
lives of Saints, or are we stumbling blocks in the
way of those who are weak in the faith, who,know-
ing our profession, and seeing our works, see
that they do not correspond. It looks altogether
to me like a lack of faith in the promises of God
for us to hesitate one moment, when persecution
comes, about what course to pursue, for he has 
said, that when we serve him our enemies shall
not prevail against us. I know some will say, "Oh 
we shall always be persecuted by the wicked."
Granted, but we have the sure word of God,which
never fails, that if we serve Him they shall not
prevail against us, although they may, perhaps,
scoff at and scorn us. Instance the days of Noah
whom God commanded to build an ark, in the
which all those who would obey his voice should
escape the destruction which was preparing for
the wicked. Out of all that were then living on
the earth,only eight souls of them hearkened to his
counsel, although they derided him and laughed
him to scorn. We have no account, so far as I
know, of his enemies having the power to im-
prison, or deter him from accomplishing the work
that God intrusted him with. Are there not many,
very many of our brethren and sisters who are
suffering imprisonment and exile for the Gospel's
sake? No; for our sins, as I fully believe. Now
I think we should not waste a moment in useless
repining or denunciation of our enemies; they are
wicked and corrupt, we know very well, but none
but that kind would do as they do. Did a righte-
ous people ever persecute their fellow men? No!
but the Lord has in all ages employed the wicked
to scourge his people, when they did not serve
him and keep the commandments which he had
given them.
	Prayer is very esential for a Latter-day Saint, 
but in my estimation it is a weak Saint who does 
nothing toward living his religion, but say his
prayers. I would not give a rush for him, and I
don't believe the Lord would.
	I think that when we reduce our professions to
practice, and live the lives of whole-souled Latter-
day Saints, "love our neighbors as we do our-
selves" and do what God has required of us,
through his servants, that the love of God and
of our brethren and sisters, may abound in our
hearts, the Lord will hear and answer us when we 
pray, and Zion will be delivered from her enemies,
for I testify that He is not slow to hear the cries
of His children, when they are in the path of
duty. And I believe that if we were liv-
ing the lives of Saints honestly and
truly before our Heavenly Father,
that Congress might pass all the bills that a cor-

[Columun 2]

rupt nation could concoct, and it would not bind
one Latter-day Saint, or hinder him in the per-
formance of the duties that God has assigned him
to do.
	May he speed the day when the hypocrite
shall be separated from those who desire to
serve him and keep his commandments.
		RUTH.


