THE THOUGHTS OF A DAY.

	Oh, dear! oh, dear! What shall I do? When
will be the end of all this noise and confusion?
How can I think, how can I work, when I can-
not have time to think or consider my work
rationally? Let me see; this is Monday. Wash-
ing day, baking day, cooking day; everything
to be done in general. It is, "Mamma, where
is my slate?" "Where is my pencil? "School
teacher says I must have a new copy book this
morning." "What shall we take for dinner?"
"Mamma, here is a hole in my mitten." "Wife,
where is the letter I received from Jenkins
yesterday?" The letter is produced. "Hand
me pen, paper and ink, for I must answer it
immediately." "Mamma, what does c-a-n spell?"
"Can." Now my fire has gone out, and I must
kindle it again. Husband has gone to the
post office. I set down the baby, put away pen
and ink, shut the door, and then prepare for
my day's work.  I sit myself down to think a
few moments in quiet.
	As my mind reverts to the difference between
man's and woman's sphere of life, an impulse
seizes me to step outside the door to cool my
brow and fill my lungs with fresh air. As I
feel the breeze fan my face, as it speeds swiftly
by, my spirits rise, and I feel as though I
could, if released from all these family cares,
go forth into the world free and independent,
battling with the cares of this life. I could
measure arms with my brother man, enter the
halls of justice as a lawyer, represent the in-
terests of my sex in the halls of Congress, sit
upon the Presidential chair at Washington, and
decide the national affairs with as much right
and justice as President Cleveland, or I could
legislate with clearer sight and greater cunning
than polygamy Edmunds. I believe I could
be quite good natured at all times and under
all circumstances, if I were given the advan-
tages given the sterner sex.
	Well, well; I have traveled far, and find
myself upon a hill covered with rock, sage and
prickly pear. As my feet are far above the
surroundings below, my thoughts arise above
the cares of to-day. I drop down upon my
knees before a natural altar (a huge stone)
and say, "O God! my Eternal Father, the
founder of heaven and earth, Thou whom the
thunder and lightning doth obey, the Ruler of
all nations and people, wouldst Thou draw
near and listen to the petition of an erring soul.
Help me to remember that Thou didst, through
toil and care, pain and death, lay the plan of
salvation, whereby, in obedience to the same,
all the human family may again return to
Thee and dwell in everlasting felicity. Help
me to bear the cares of this life with patience
and humility; forgive my complaining this
day." Methinks I hear a still small voice say,


"Peace, O thou troubled soul; be firm and stead-
fast to the righteous cause thou hast espoused
yet a little longer, and all will be well with
thee. Honor God, thy Eternal Father; honor
those who hold His priesthood upon the earth;
honor thyself as a daughter in Zion and
mother in Israel, and live for the blessings
promised to the faithful." I arise to my feet
comforted, hurry home, embrace my children,
do my work with renewed courage, and all
goes as merry as a marriage bell.
		D. E. DUDLEY.
	Clifton, Jan. 28, 1886.


