[Vol27 | July 1940 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: The CoverAngels Park]
NATIONAL  CONFERENCE  OF  SOCIAL  WORK 
509 
cism  of  those  among  us  who  can  real- 
ize these  conditions  without  attempt- 
ing to  remedy  them.  European  ex- 
perience should  teach  us  that  the 
despair  of  the  people  is  the  oppor- 
tunity of  the  dictator." 
Miss  Coyle  listed  effects  of  the  de- 
pression of  the  1930's  as  follows: 
undermining  of  belief  in  opportunity 
for  economic  achievement;  the  dis- 
illusion and  despair  of  much  of  our 
youth;  a  generation  of  old  age  with- 
out resource  or  security;  uprooted 
farm  families  (as  the  Joads)  who 
have  become  depression  refugees; 
and  the  lack  of  physical  necessities 
essential  to  health  and  decency. 
She  and  many  other  speakers  held 
that  these  ills  of  our  nation  can  be 
and  must  be  overcome.  Distin- 
guished speakers  asserted  that  there 
is  no  unavoidable  cause  for  any  pov- 
erty in  any  part  of  the  United  States; 
that  we  need  leadership  and  knowl- 
edge in  adjusting  our  affairs  to  pro- 
duce plenty  for  all  in  work  and  in 
goods.  Ways  and  means  were  stud- 
ied for  bringing  to  every  American 
"the  essential  minimum  for  health 
and  decency." 
I  ARGE  sections  of  the  Conference 
were  devoted  to  attempts  to  an- 
alyze the  public  relief  programs  of 
the  country  and  to  formulate  prin- 
ciples of  sound  public  welfare  ad- 
ministration. Closely  allied  with 
these  discussions  were  those  regard- 
ing rehabilitation  of  large  migratory 
populations,  and  regarding  econom- 
ic and  governmental  control  of  the 
consequences  of  changing  produc- 
tion methods. 
The  national  health  program  and 
the  placing  of  medical  care  within 
the  reach  of  all  were  subjects  in  sev- 
eral sessions.    Mr.  Homer  Folks,  em- 
inent    social     worker,     considered 
health  comparable  in  importance  to 
education,  although  far  less  progress 
has  been  made  in  providing  it  for  all. 
One    speaker    decried    the    vicious 
cycle  of  providing  public  medical 
care  for  children  who  would  be  well 
if  properly  housed  or  fed  or  clothed. 
The  Wagner  National  Health  Act 
and  precepts  advocated  by  the  Amer- 
ican Medical  Association  were  point- 
ed out  as  progressive  steps  in  pro- 
viding low-cost  medical  care  for  all, 
to  improve  the  health  of  the  nation. 
Child  welfare  held  its  usual  prom- 
inent place  in  the  Conference  pro- 
gram.     Miss    Katherine    Lenroot, 
Chief  of  the  Children's  Bureau,  out- 
lined a  program  for  children  based 
on  recommendations  of  the   1940 
White  House  Conference  on  Chil- 
dren in  a  Democracy.    She  indicated 
that  between  six  and  eight  million 
United  States  children  were,  in  1939, 
in  families  dependent  for  food  and 
shelter  upon  various  forms  of  relief. 
This  aid,  in   many   cases,   "is   not 
enough  to  provide  a  good  home." 
She  pointed  out,  also,  that  nearly  a 
million  children  of  elementary  school 
age  are  not  in  school  and  that  four 
million  youths  between  the  ages  of 
sixteen  and  twenty-five  want  work 
but  are  unemployed.     Seeing  the 
European  conflict  as  a  challenge  to 
all  the  nations  of  the  Western  hemis- 
phere. Miss  Lenroot  suggested  means 
by  which  Americans  and  their  chil- 
dren might  be  assured  of  qualities
