

As a member of the General Board of the Y. W. M. I. A, she served for thirty-nine years, working valiantly for the benefit of the youth of the Church. Her voice has been heard in practically all of the stakes and wards of the Church in the interest of this organization. Her devotion to temple work has been an inspiration. Not only has she given of her time and strength to this cause, but she likewise gives liberally of her means for research work in genealogy. In addition to serving as a missionary in Japan, in her capacity as the wife of the President of  
Church, she has traveled extensively; and everywhere, in her modest but effective way, she has testified to the truth of the Gospel of the Master. We admire Sister Grant as a mother—as the mother of her only child and as a mother to the nine motherless children of her husband.
These she has brought up in the fear of the Lord, and their fine upright lives are an outstanding tribute to her motherhood. We honor Sister Grant for her devotion and loyalty to her husband, President Heber J. Grant, our beloved leader. She has always respected his desires and has taught their children to do likewise. She sympathizes with him in his great responsibilities and sustains him with her full support. Sister Grant inherits many of her fine qualities from her intelligent and outstanding mother, Mary Ann Winters, who was a woman of great faith; who was open minded, high minded and wide minded; who was public spirited and gave freely of her time and energy in the interest of education and in the raising
of family and community standards.
From her noble father, Oscar Winters, she inherits her calmness and evenness of disposition, her poise and balance, her wisdom and good judgment. Her philosophy of life she summed up recently when she said: "I have always tried to be satisfied with what has come to me. I have never wanted anything that I could not have." (Reprint from Millennial Star) (Editor's Note: Mary Grant Judd, the only daughter of Augusta Winters Grant, and a member of the Relief Society General Board, is writing a biography of her mother.
Because of the rich life experiences and noble character of Sister Grant, the book is looked forward to with interest. Mrs.
Judd hopes to have it completed within the year.) Blessed Event Olive W. Burt Nancy had never in all her life been to