[Vol27 | July 1940 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Prayer Knowles]
THE  OLD  SOCIAL  HALL 
loud  talking  hushed,  the  neighbor 
went  his  way,  you  heard  the  last 
hymn  sung,  and  then  the  thousand- 
voiced  murmur  of  prayer  was  heard 
like  babbling  water  falling  down  a 
hill   
".  .  .  I  have  spoken  to  you  of  a 
people  whose  industry  had  made 
them  rich  and  gathered  around  them 
all  the  comforts  and  not  a  few  of 
the  luxuries  of  refined  life;  expelled 
by  lawless  force  into  the  wilderness; 
seeking  an  untried  home  far  away 
from  scenes  which  their  previous  life 
had  endeared  to  them;  moving  on- 
ward, destitute,  hunger-sickened  and 
sinking  with  disease,  bearing  along 
with  them  their  wives  and  children, 
the  aged,  the  poor,  and  the  decrepit; 
renewing  daily  on  their  march  the 
offices  of  devotion,  the  ties  of  family 
and  friendship  and  charity;  sharing 
necessities,  and  braving  dangers  to- 
gether, cheerful  in  the  midst  of  want 
and  trial,  and  persevering  until  they 
triumphed." 
Such  were  our  Pioneers!  This  was 
the  spirit  of  Come,  Come  Ye  Saints/ 
No  people  were  ever  led  by  a  loftier 
ideal,  or  sustained  by  a  more  sublime 
faith. 
TPHEY  had  learned  two  great  les- 
sons in  this  school  of  experience, 
that  of  self-help,  and  of  giving  help 
to  others  and  receiving  it  in  turn. 
There  was  no  place  for  loafers  or 
parasites  in  this  new  land,  but  there 
were  homes  for  men  and  women 
who  were  willing  to  work  for  what 
they  received.  Persistent  physical 
labor  was  the  lot  of  every  able-bodied 
person,  and  their  labors  filled  every 
hour  of  daylight.  They  believed  in 
divine  guidance,  and  they  trusted 
their  lives  and  fortunes  to  the  direc- 
tion of  those  in  whom  they  had 
full  confidence.  The  element  of 
real  and  common  danger  was  a  pow- 
erful bond  among  the  Pioneers  as 
they  settled  throughout  Utah  with 
a  strong  unity  of  purpose.  As  the 
land  was  dotted  with  cabins  and 
cleared  fields,  the  church  and  school- 
house  arose,  along  with  the  first  poor 
dwellings.     We   might  say   in    the