[Vol27 | July 1940 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Editorial | Title: s Pray Always Not]
436 
schools,  headed  by  the  Brigham 
Young  University  in  Provo,  is  a  thril- 
ling story  in  itself  and  bears  witness 
to  the  fact  that  Utah  Pioneers  were 
from  the  earliest  beginnings  staunch 
friends  of  education,  which  should 
be  free  from  prejudice  and  free  for 
all.  The  missionary  movement, 
while  a  Church  activity,  has  been 
a  great  educational  force. 
The  ideal  of  government  was  that 
all  should  participate  in  directing 
the  policies;  that  it  should  be  shared 
by  all,  and  that  equal  justice  to  every- 
one should  be  administered. 
Every  family  was  urged  to  own 
its  own  home,  and  this  policy  always 
tends,  to  stabilize  citizens.  Free- 
dom of  opportunity  was  the  gift  of 
the  frontier,  and  it  meant  individual 
rise  and  social  progress,  which  came 
readily  into  the  pioneer  mind.  It  was 
a  period  of  unusual  equality,  a  de- 
mocracy of  fact,  born  of  the  country 
and  life  itself.  A  new  set  of  values 
was  developed  when  the  emphasis 
was  founded  upon  personal  strength, 
courage  and  endurance. 
nPHE  patriotism  of  the  Pioneers  to 
the  United  States  is  a  glowing 
chapter  in  their  history.  Through 
the  person  of  their  great  leader,  Brig- 
ham  Young,  they  voiced  their  feel- 
ings upon  many  occasions:  "We  feel 
the  injuries  that  we  have  sustained, 
and  are  not  insensible  of  the  wrongs 
we  have  suffered;  still  we  are  Amer- 
icans." 
The  story  of  the  Mormon  Battal- 
ion, the  unfurling  of  the  Stars  and 
Stripes  on  Ensign  Peak,  the  first 
telegram  to  go  over  the  completed 
line,  October,  1861,  sent  by  Brigham 
Young  to  the  president  of  the  Tele- 
graph Company,  were  but  a  few  of 
the  evidences  of  the  loyalty  of  the 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY,   1940 
Pioneers.  This  message  contained 
the  following  statement:  "Utah  has 
not  seceded,  but  is  firm  for  the  Con- 
stitution and  the  laws  of  our  once 
happy  country."  To  be  an  American 
was,  to  them,  more  than  being  a 
mere  native  of  America.  It  repre- 
sented a  calling  or  civilization  that 
had  in  it  something  of  a  challenge 
and  an  ideal  for  the  oppressed  of 
all  the  world. 
The  hardships  of  pioneer  life  took 
their  greatest  toll  from  the  women 
and  children.  Men  did  the  heavier 
work,  ran  the  outdoor  risks  and  de- 
fended the  homes  against  Indians, 
but  woman  risked  the  greater  dan- 
gers. To  the  interminable  labor  in 
the  frontier  home,  when  she  was 
cook,  seamstress,  teacher,  and  doctor, 
was  added  the  bearing  and  rearing  of 
children.  The  experiences  of  the 
women  developed  self-confidence, 
but  they  never  lost  the  finer  touch. 
Many  were  poets  and  writers  of  no 
mean  talent,  and  some  of  the  few 
first  graduate  physicians  of  the  West 
were  our  Pioneer  women.  The 
Woman's  Exponent,  founded  in 
1872,  was  a  pioneer  paper  devoted 
to  the  advancement  of  women;  and 
Utah's  daughters  took  their  place  by 
the  side  of  the  most  distinguished
