[Vol27 | July 1940 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: The Burdenless Bennett]
CHASTITY— A  FOUNDATION  STONE  OF  MORMON  ISM 
507 
and  mothers— guardians  of  the  chas- 
tity of  our  youth— have  a  more  sol- 
emn obhgation  than  that  imposed 
on  any  other  people.  Relief  Society 
mothers,  teach  your  children  to  shun 
the  very  appearance  of  evil.  The 
responsibility  is  yours.  Important  as 
is  the  work  of  the  Church,  the  school 
and  other  agencies  interested  in  mor- 
al welfare,  the  task  cannot  be  left 
entirely  to  them.  Recently,  in  one 
of  the  great  universities  of  our  coun- 
try, moral  philosophy  not  only  dan- 
gerous but  contrary  to  Christian 
principles  was  taught.  The  teacher 
had  slight  regard  for  chastity.  While 
it  is  true  that  schools  have  a  solemn 
obligation  to  stress  this  vital  prin- 
ciple, they  cannot  always  be  relied 
upon;  and  fine  as  are  the  teachings 
of  the  Church,  remember,  Relief  So- 
ciety mothers,  the  home  is  the  first 
bulwark  to  preserve  and  defend  chas- 
tity. 
Satan's  practices  are  beguiling.  He 
whispers  into  the  ear  of  the  unsus- 
pecting youth,  "Everybody  is  doing 
it.  Be  a  sport;  nobody  will  ever 
know."  Remember,  youth,  your 
Heavenly  Father  knows,  and  you 
know. 
"1  cannot  hide  myself  from  me, 
I  see  what  others  can  never  see, 
I  know  what  others  may  never  know. 
I  cannot  hide  myself  and  so 
Whatever  happens  I  want  to  be 
Self-respecting  and  conscience-free." 
Our  children  are  our  most  priceless 
gifts.  The  Savior  has  said,  "The 
worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight 
of  God. ...  He  that  seeketh  me  early 
shall  find  me." 
President  Clark,  at  the  last  Con- 
ference, gave  the  following  advice 
to  the  mothers: 
"Sisters  of  the  Church,  the  chastity  of 
the  youth  of  the  Church  is  largely  in  your 
hands.  You  must  enthrone  virtue  in  its 
sovereign  place;  you  must  bring  back  mod- 
esty, must  let  the  beauty  of  chaste  blushes 
still  adorn  your  cheeks. 
"Mothers  in  Israel,  teach  your  sons  to 
honor  and  revere,  to  protect  to  the  last, 
pure  womanhood;  teach  your  daughters 
that  their  most  priceless  jewel  is  a  clean, 
undefiled  body;  teach  both  sons  and  daugh- 
ters that  chastity  is  worth  more  than  life 
itself.  These  are  the  duties  which  the 
Priesthood  looks  to  you  primarily  to  carry 
to,  and  to  maintain  in,  that  cradle  of  all 
virtues — the  righteous  home. 
"We  Priesthood  shall  help  as  best  our 
natures  permit,  but  the  burden  for  that 
task  is  now  and  always  has  been,  in  the 
greatest  part,  yours.  Unless  you  shall  do 
this,  the  whole  world  will  sink  into  a  welter 
of  sin  and  corruption.  May  God  help  you 
in. your  task!" 
How  blessed  are  Latter-day  Saint 
fathers  and  mothers.  The  Church 
has  charted  the  course  for  your 
children  to  follow.  Danger  signals 
have  been  posted  along  the  way. 
This  charted  course  is  the  way  of 
wholesome  life;  it  is  our  Heavenly 
Father's  way. 
Members  of  our  Society,  the 
Priesthood  expects  us  to  guard  the 
chastity  of  our  youth.  They  came  to 
us  pure.  Let  us  do  all  in  our  power 
to  keep  them  so.  Teach  them  to 
listen  to  the  still,  small  voice.  That 
voice  says  now,  as  always:  "Be  not 
deceived;  God  is  not  mocked.  What- 
soever we  soweth,  that  shall  we 
reap." 
cr^^vQ^^

National  Conference  of  Social  Work 
Ora  Whipple  Chipmaii 
npHE  Relief  Society  sent  two  dele- 
gates to  the  National  Confer- 
ence of  Social  Work,  held  in  Grand 
Rapids,  Michigan,  from  May  24 
to  June  1  this  year.  At  this  Confer- 
ence were  assembled  representative 
social  workers  and  other  leaders  in 
social  welfare  from  all  parts  of  the 
United  States  and  its  possessions, 
from  Canada  and  some  other  foreign 
countries.  Medicine,  psychiatry,  re- 
search, psychology,  statistics,  law,  the 
ministry  sent  distinguished  represent- 
atives to  participate.  Industrial  lead- 
ers and  labor  administrators  contrib- 
uted to  the  deliberations  of  the  Con- 
ference. It  was,  indeed,  a  truly  great 
meeting  of  people  whose  greatest  in- 
terest centers  in  the  welfare  of  hu- 
man beings. 
The  Conference  is  a  "forum  for 
the  discussion  of  all  points  of  view  on 
social  welfare  ...  it  is  non-racial, 
non-sectarian  and  non-political.  It 
adopts  no  platforms  and  takes  no  of- 
ficial stand  on  local,  state,  national 
or  international  affairs.  ..."  At 
this  sixty-seventh  annual  Conference 
there  were  four  hundred  meetings 
and  more  than  six  hundred  speakers. 
Official  paid  registration  was  4,888 
with  attendance  reaching  approxi- 
mately 8,000  people.  With  one  gen- 
eral session  daily,  the  Conference 
was  divided  into  five  major  sections: 
social  case  work,  social  group  work, 
community  organization,  social  ac- 
tion, and  public  welfare  administra- 
tion. Affiliated  with  the  Conference 
were  nine  special  committees  and 
fifty-five  associate  groups;  such  as, 
the  Child  Welfare  Lea^e  of  Amer- 
ica,   the    American    Association   of 
Psychiatric  Social  Workers,  the 
American  Association  of  Medical 
Social  Workers,  the  National  Proba- 
tion Association,  National  Associa- 
tion of  Goodwill  Industries,  Episco- 
pal Social  Work  Conference,  and 
the  Committee  on  the  National 
Health  Program.
