[Vol27 | July 1940 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: How a Mother Can Prepare McConkie]
be  a  most  fastidiously  prepared  and 
served  luncheon,  if  the  one  who  is 
preparing  it  enjoys  the  process;  but 
for    the    great    majority   of  picnic 
"fans"  burdenless  means  something 
very  much  more  casual  and  informal 
—a  marshmallow  and  wiener  roast, 
for  instance.  A  carefully  planned, 
long-awaited,  and  even  elaborate  out- 
door party  may  be  great  fun;  but 
oftener,  the  simple  surprise  picnic 
is  voted  the  "season's  best."  You 
know  the  kind— you  stand  at  the 
window  at  some  bright  moment  and 
say,  "This  is  the  day  for  a  picnic!" 
and  you  are  off  in  thirty  minutes. 
How  are  we  to  achieve  this  bur- 
denless picnic,  this  picnic  that  is  fun 
all  the  way  through?  There  may  be 
many  things  involved,  but,  in  the 
main,  it's  a  matter  of  organization, 
proficiency,  and  simplicity  in  equip- 
ment, menus  and  entertainment. 
And  the  greatest  of  these  is  sim- 
plicity! 
The  world  is  full  of  a  number  of 
things— and  95%  of  them  are  gad- 
gets: asbestos  gloves  and  yard-long 
forks,  fully  fitted  picnic  suitcases  and 
barbecue  carts,  no  doubt  delightful 
to  own  and  perhaps  helpful.  Un- 
doubtedly, over  a  period  of  many 
years,  every  enthusiastic  outdoor 
family  accumulates  a  certain  amount 
of  picnic  paraphernalia  which  they 
use  and  enjoy,  and  certainly  no 
one  begrudges  it  to  them.  But  very 
little  of  it  is  in  any  way  necessary 
to  a  very  happy  picnic.  A  good 
pocket  or  paring  knife  will  point  or 
fork  a  stick  for  toasting  a  bun  or  a 
marshmallow.  A  pair  of  pliers,  some 
stout  wire,  and  the  helpful  "Boy 
Scout"  spirit  of  a  son  or  husband 
will  make  a  satisfactory  grill  for  hold- 
ing a  frying  pan  over  a  bonfire.  News- 
paper is  excellent  insulating  material 
and  will  keep  a  tightly  covered  oven- 
hot  casserole  hot  for  hours,  if  care-

384 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JUNE,   1940 
fully  wrapped  and  tied  around  it  in 
voluminous  layers  (lo  or  12).  A 
camping  blanket  or  auto  robe  swath- 
ed about  the  right-side-up  package 
will  further  aid  in  retaining  the  heat. 
Pretty  trays  are  lovely  for  outdoor 
luncheons,  but  we  have  seen  many 
children  (and  their  parents)  bliss- 
fully happy  with  a  pie  plate,  a  shoe 
box,  or  a  small  peach  crate,  holding 
individual  portions  of  the  good  fare. 
We  have  seen  many  charming  picnic 
tablecloths,  but  the  most  interesting 
(and  perhaps  the  most  enjoyed  and 
the  least  expensive)  was  made  from 
dish  toweling  sewed  together  in 
strips,  with  fringed  squares  for  the 
napkins.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  there 
is  much  to  be  said  in  favor  of  the 
"all  paper"  party,  with  a  grand  bon- 
fire and  few  things  to  take  home. 
If  you  lack  camp  chairs  or  garden 
furniture,  try  oilcloth  squares  lined 
with  newspaper,  or  even  rubber 
kneeling  pads.  If  you  haven't  a 
handsome  picnic  basket,  a  small 
laundry  clothes-basket,  an  old-fash- 
ioned telescope-bag,  or  a  heavy  card- 
board packing  box  will  answer  just 
as  well.  Use  what  you  have  with 
ingenuity  and  individuality,  paying 
attention,  mainly,  to  cleanliness, 
neatness  and  color. 
T  ET'S  keep  the  menu  simple  and 
good.  When  we  find  something 
which  is  a  great  success,  let's  not 
mind  repeating  it.  We  should  prac- 
tice its  preparation  over  and  over 
until  it  can  be  done  quickly  and, 
figuratively  speaking,  with  the  right 
hand  tied  behind  us.  Let  us  be  the 
Nobel  prize  winner  in  effortless 
cooking.  If  we  particularly  like 
sandwiches,  let's  keep  a  good  bread 
knife  and  a  big  board  for  cutting 
and  spreading  at  our  beck  and  call. 
Soft  butter,  a  jar  of  our  favorite 
spread,  waxed  paper,  crisp,  clean  let- 
tuce should  always  be  ready.  Fore- 
thought cuts  time  and  work  in  half. 
If  we  don't  care  for  sandwiches,  they 
may  be  eliminated.  Let  us  try  this 
combination:  a  substantial  casserole 
dish  (rice,  tomatoes,  and  hamburger; 
noodles  and  ham;  chili;  or  corn  with 
sausage);  something  fresh  and  crisp 
(tomatoes,  watercress  or  lettuce); 
bread  and  butter;  something  to 
drink  (water,  milk,  chocolate  milk, 
or  fruit  juice);  something  sweet 
(shortcake,  cup  cakes,  cookies  or 
homemade  taffy ) .  Granted  that  we 
all  enjoy  fried  chicken,  potato  salad, 
hot  rolls,  deviled  eggs,  and  chocolate 
cake,  we  still  vote  for  the  unbur- 
dened menu. 
As  for  entertainment,  there  are 
many  sports  and  much  elaborate 
equipment  —  horseshoes,  baseballs, 
tennis  racquets,  swings,  slides,  teet- 
ers—but register  another  vote  for 
simplicity.  An  inexpensive  ball  is 
probably  the  most  useful  family  play- 
thing yet  invented.  It  can  be  tossed 
by  young  and  old,  tall  and  short, 
lean  and  plump.  It  can  be  batted, 
bounced,  thrown  overhand,  under- 
hand, north,  south,  east,  west  and  in 
circles.  It  can  provide  mild  exercise 
or  a  real  "work-out." 
The  human  voice  is  another  in- 
valuable addition  to  a  picnic.  Songs 
—group  or  individual,  stories,  family 
histories  are  all  enhanced  by  moon 
or  firelight.  Then,  there  are  auto 
games!  If  the  ride  to  the  picnic  is 
fairly  long,  the  geography  game  is 
always  a  favorite.  Someone  gives  the 
name  of  a  city,  country,  state,  moun- 
tain, river,  almost  any  geographical 
name,  and  someone  else,  within  a 
specified  time  limit,  must  give  an- 
other which  begins  with  the  last  let-