[Vol27 | July 1940 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Work-and-Business]
Special Activities Sponsored by Stake Relief Societies North Weber Stake (Ogden, Utah) The work-and-business department of the North Weber Stake sponsored a twelve-week course in sewing in 1939, with the laudable objectives of training homemakers and aiding the Church welfare program by providing gainful occupation for women needing work. The sewing school was held at the Ogden regional storehouse and attended regularly by representatives from all the fourteen wards of the stake. At the conclusion of the course, these representatives gave the instruction to Relief Society members in their respective wards.
Here expert instruction was given in sewing for family needs. The simplest stitches were studied first, followed later by a course in dressmaking and tailored finishes.
Remaking of children's clothing was one of the specialties of this school.
Neat in appearance and reflecting the latest trends in style, these articles ranged from tiny undies to fine coats and suits to delight their little INSTRUCTORS AT SEWING PROJECT, NORTH WEBER STAKE Left to right, Loretta Wright, Mary Wright, Jessie Snarr FLOWER EXHIBIT, SALINA FIRST WARD, NORTH SEVIER STAKE wearers.
Instructors at the sewing project are shown in the accompanying picture which was taken at a stake bazaar and handiwork exhibit held in May, 1939. On this occasion, a sale of home-baked foods and articles of sewing netted the association more than $100. Julia E. Parry, who was president of North Weber Stake Relief Society at the time of this exhibit and bazaar, later resigned, and Nellie W.
Neal was appointed president on September 30, 1939. North Sevier Stake (Salina, Utah) The Relief Society of North Sevier Stake, of which Melissa M.
Crane is president, sponsors an annual flower festival which has proved to be one of its most interesting activities. Not only do the women of the various wards in the stake strive to beautify their homes and gardens with lovely flowers during the summer months, but through careful selection and a study of plant life, they try to cultivate plants of a superior type, and to add new varieties.
Artistic arrangement is also one of their objectives. In 1939, the flower festival was held in each ward in connection with the annual ward Relief Society conference?a combination which added interest to both activities. The flowers were brought to the ward chapel on the morning of the conference Sunday, where they were arranged by the women, and remained on display throughout the day. The accompanying picture is of the 1939 display of the Salina First Ward. Star Valley Stake (Afton, Wyo.) As early as February, 1940, Lucille Call, secretary, wrote that the 480
Star Valley Stake Relief Society is sponsoring a beautification program, with President Arvilla J.
Hyer as chairman. All the civic and governmental organizations and church groups are cooperating in this enterprise. A survey was made in each ward early in the year, with ward welfare groups and Relief Society participating in the survey. In the fall of 1940, a follow-up survey will be made and a prize awarded to the ward making the greatest progress. The work directors in each ward are on the ward beautification committee, which has the two-fold purpose of providing work for those in need, and improving the appearance of the homes and churches. The aim of  this stake is, "A more beautiful Star Valley for 1940." Los Angeles Stake (California) The Los Angeles Stake Relief Society presented a spring fashion show and musicale on the afternoon of February 19, 1940. The large audience which attended acclaimed it as an exceptionally fine entertainment. The fashion show was elaborate and comprehensive, revealing the latest trends in the realm of fashion, as well as the fashions of yester-year.
Refreshments were served and a delightful musicale was presented. Mary S.
Jordan is president of this stake Relief Society. HOME OF PIONEERS Lydia Hall It is so small, so very small, This home of pioneers, That stood so long against the storms And temperament of years. It is so rude no one would guess That it is paved with dreams, That love and life and death have walked Beneath its sagging beams; That it has cradled great ideals, That time has hallowed it, That in its lowly rooms the lamp Of liberty was lit.
