THOUGHTS ON THE TIMES.

	We are living in very eventful days. Inci-
dents are continually occurring that test people
and show that the "Gospel net" has indeed
gathered of every kind. We find that there
are good, bad and indifferent individuals in
our midst. All that is required is something
to bring them out to show their true character.
You can judge pretty correctly how much
faith people have by their expressions, for "out
of the abundance of the heart the mouth
speaketh." A person who has faith and confi-
dence in God that He will fulfill His promises
to His people, does not speak in a doubtful,
fearful manner about the outcome of this cru-

[Column 2]

sade that is being waged against the Latter-day
Saints, but is confident that all will be over-
ruled for the good of those who trust in Him
and remain faithful.
	Those who enjoy the spirit of the Gospel do
not ask such questions as these. "Why do not
the authorities of the Church come forth and
give themselves up and stand the consequences
like men? If plural marriage is of God why
does He not protect His people from their ene-
mies, and not suffer them to be cast into prison?"
These questions are sometimes asked by those
who profess to be Saints, but I say they are
only Saints in name, or they would understand
the reason, and would feel as all true Saints
feel, anxious that our leading men should re-
main concealed, and their prayers would as-
cend daily to God that He would keep them
from their enemies.
	In the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith, he
made arrangements to escape from his enemies,
but some of the Saints of little faith accused
him of cowardice, and he returned, knowing
what the end would be—that his life would be
taken. Do we wish to see a similar tragedy?
There are those who are thirsting for the blood
of our prophets to-day, who would repeat the
crime committed at Carthage Jail, if they had
the chance. The blood of our beloved Presi-
dent was shed on that dreadful occasion, but
he has been preserved to bless this people and
fill the place he now occupies. He is a living
monument of God's power and mercy, and
may God grant that he may continue to be for
many years.
	Who thinks it reasonable to ask, "Why was
Jesus Christ allowed to be crucified, if He was
the Son of God?" Yet some people ask why the
Lord does not prevent His servants from going
to prison, if He commanded them to practice
plural marriage? It is just as necessary for
God's chosen people to-day to be tried, perse-
cuted and imprisoned for the Gospel's sake, as
it was for Christ to be crucified, and all
Christains acknowledge that that was essential
for our salvation. Why? To test us, to see if
we are willing to suffer for the Gospel's sake.
If we are not willing, we are not worthy to be
called Saints. Jesus said, "He that is not
willing to lay down his life for my sake is not
worthy of me." And again He said, "Blessed
are ye when men shall revile and persecute
you, and say all manner of evil of you
falsely for my name' sake; rejoice and be
exceeding glad, for so persecuted they the
prophets who were before you."
	The persecution that we receive is an evi-
dence and testimony to us that we are the peo-
ple of God whom He has chosen out of the
world, therefore we are hated and persecuted
for our religion as no other people are perse-
cuted; but if we would "be like the rest of us"
they would love us and let us alone. We do
not want their love nor anything they offer us.
—no, not even the liberty they offer us. The
liberty that the courts offer has to be bought
with too great a price for Latter-day Saints to
think of purchasing. They cannot afford to
barter away their exaltation and endless lives,
and become slaves by accepting the liberty
that the courts offer; and a man who does so to
escape a few months' imprisonment forfeits his
wives and his children and his exaltation. Bet-
ter accept imprisonment for life with honor,
and gain endless lives, that accept liberty and
dishonor. When I read about the brethren
who have made promises to the court, I wonder
how their wives feel to be cast off and deserted
by those they loved and trusted, and how their
children feel. I brought it home to myself,
and asked myself how I would feel under the
circumstances. It made me feel sick at heart;
it was terrible to think of, and I was glad to 
think of something more pleasant. I say,
"God bless and comfort my sisters who have to
endure this trial," and let me encourage you

[Column 3]

to do your duty bravely, keep your covenants
and live a pure life, and our Father will re-
ward you by giving you a noble husband, who
will not be afraid to serve Him, and will be
worthy of the affection of pure faithful women.
The man who puts away his plural wives is
more to be pitied than the wives (if they re-
main faithful), for by his cowardly act he will
bring upon himself the condemnation of a just
God, who hates and has forbidden the putting
away of wives.
	If a man breaks his covenants and forfeits
his plural wives, what about his first wife?
Has he not also forfeited her, and is she justi-
fied in the sight of God in living with him?
He made the same covenants with his other
wives as he did with her, and is under the
same obligations to them as he is to her. I feel
proud of my sisters who went to prison rather
than betray their trust, and think there are
many more who would do the same, if they
were tried the same. Many of the brethren
have shown their integrity by going to prison,
and have gained the admiration and love of all
true Saints, who remember them daily in their
prayers. I should think the wives of those
noble men would love and honor them more
than ever, and would strive to be faithful and
true to them, that they might be worthy to be
their companions for time and eternity. But
if some of their wives are unfaithful, the Lord
will give them others who are worthy; and will
reward them for all they have suffered.
	Let us, my sisters, be patient; the redemption
of Zion draweth night. Let us not murmur or
complain at the providences of God, but be
thankful that He has counted us worthy to
live upon the earth at this time, and given us
the privilege of assisting to build up His king-
dom and establish righteousness upon the earth,
thereby showing our faith by our works. Let
us try to be humble, and say, "Father, not my
will, but Thine be done," and then strive to do
it with all our might, and all will be well with
us. When Jehovah has accomplished His pur-
poses in this crusade it will cease; the prison
doors will be opened; the exiles will return;
families will be reunited; righteous men will
sit in the judgment seat, and Zion will arise
and put on her beautiful garment, and the
glory of the Lord will rest upon her. That
this day may speedily come, is the daily prayer
