VISIT TO NEW ENGLAND.

	To go back again to one's native place after
forty years absence, and revisit the scenes of one's
childhood, is something difficult to describe, be-
cause, forsooth, the reality baffles all description.
The places that once knew you so well, know
you no longer; only here and there you may find
some old man or woman who remembers you
when a child, but can see none of the resemblance
in the mature and somewhat faded matron. "Why,
you used to have such rosy cheeks and lips," said
one old lady. "So I had, once," was the reply,
"but remember, when you knew me was more
than forty years ago." This was the village dress-
maker who came twice a year to our house, and,
in fact, to all the houses in the village, to cut and
fit and help make the summer and winter clothing.
We used to think she was an old maid then, but
now she is a very old maid. She was very prim
and precise, always looked so distant, as much as
to say, "No one must come too near me," and we
little people stood quite in awe of her; she wore a
green silk calash with a ribbon bridle, and carried
a long green silk bag, which contained, among
other things, her scissors, patterns and articles for
use in the art of dressmaking. We children
never ventured to peep into that bag, though our
curiosity was very great to see all that it contained,
but upon no account would mother allow us to
touch it. In those days little girls didn't venture
to ask as many questions as they do now, or per-
haps we might have found out what else the long
bag did have in it; but after all it is very romantic
to revel in mystery, and we had that pleasure at
least.
	"Does New England look to you as it did when
you left?" is a question we are more often asked
than any other, or, "Are you disappointed in see-
ing New England again, after all these years?"
"Not nearly so much disappointed as we had been
told we would be," has been usually the answer.
Yet there are various disappointments. One is in
the woods, although it may be said, the woods in
winter are not like the woods in summer, yet the
old New England woods as we remember them are
mostly gone—cut down and used up, and the new
growth of trees is not so large, and does not
strike one with the same sort of reverence as did
the old forests of forty and fifty years ago. Here and
there we found some woodland forests more like
"the olden time," thought it was winter, and Long-
fellow's poem, "Woods in Winter," came to mind:

	"When winter woods are piercing chill,
		And through the hawthorn blows the gale
	With solemn feet I tread the hill,
		That overbrows the lonely vale.

	But still wild music is abroad,
		Pale desert woods! within your crowd;
	And gathering winds, in hoarse accord,
		Amid the vocal reeds pipe loud."

	The dear old beech woods through which we
had so often roamed, where the partridges were

[Column 2]

wont to fly across our path, and where the tangled
shrubbery and ferns grew in luxurious profusion,
and wild berries hung gracefully from heavy laden
bushes, were all cut down, and only great stumps
and small underwood marked the spot, so cherished
among the fond recollection sof the past. Many
of the great wide spreading elms, which form
such a pleasant feature of New England scenery,
are gone; some riven by lightning, some dying
from the eating away of worms, and some have
fallen by the "woodman's axe," that spared them
not because of the new civilization that has spared
not anything that stood in the way of railroads.
Yet there are miles and miles of woods in the
country, but they are not the forests of long ago,
but the new growth of modern times.
	Talking of woods and trees, one cannot help
recalling the graceful, fragrant hemlock, and fer-
vently we can re echo Longfellow's words:

	O, hemlock tree! O, hemlock tree! how faithful are thy
		branches!
		Green not alone in summer time,
		But in the winter's frost and rain!
	O, hemlock tree! O, hemlock tree! how faithful are thy
		branches!"

	And to think of going to one's old home, and
finding the hemlock grove all cut away; the trees
under whose sheltering boughs we had sat rapt in
glad visions of the bright and glowing future, and
where in childhood's earliest days we had gone
with dolls and toys to play upon the mossy rocks,
that were swept by the overhanging boughs, and
where we listened in childish gladness to the
songs of merry birds and the soft ripple of the
murmuring brook, the same old brook that still
flows on and on, unconscious of those who played
along its flowery banks, and sometimes caught,
from out its crystal waters, the pretty minnows,
and now and then a speckled trout; yes, the same
brook, where, morning after morning, during
childhood and girlhood, we went to wash our
face and bathe our forehead in the cool water, and
where our good sister Delia says we "caught the
inspiration of poesy." The same brook, too,
where, on a cold and frosty morning in the dead
of winter, 1842, the solid ice was cut away just be-
low the dam and a knot of people gathered on either
side to see the "Mormon" Elder baptize the new
converts to the unpopular faith. The little
brook we called it, on our old homestead, only a
few rods from the house, where, after seven others,
older and wiser, had received baptism, we, too
went down with timid feet and palpitating heart,
doubting our own courage, to receive, at the
hands of one commissioned from on high, the
sacred ordinance of baptism for the remission
of sins.
	As we stood there on that wintry day, when the
brook was frozen over as on that other time in
the "long ago," many thoughts flashed o'er us, the
whole scene was re-enacted in vision, and the
question rose involuntarily, "Where are they now
who came there then to be immersed in water and
enter through the door into the true Church?"
All gone behind the vail, save one, and that one
standing there viewing over again that solemn
scene on that wintry morning. The cold north
wind was blowing fiercely, and shrieking, too, as
if moaning for the departed and the desolation
that seemed spread around; and the old fashioned
well sweep, a few feet away, creaked heavily up
and down. We were started from our reverie by
a man who came with two buckets for water, and
it seemed to us a sacrilege for him to take this
water for such common use, so reverentially we
looked upon this stream in which we had been
buried, that we might be admitted to the Church
of Jesus Christ upon the earth. In silent contem-
plation we drew near the frozen stream and walked
across, gazing down into its placid water, where
the ice had been cut away, and in our heart and
soul renewing with determined will the covenants
then and afterwards entered into, to remain faith-

[Column 3]

ful to the end. A strong testimony came with
that resolve, and a consciousness not only of the
truth of the Gospel, but of the final triumph of
right over might, and it gave such confirmation to
the soul that it seemed a mockery to stand there
silent with folded hands, and only listen to the
voices in the winds.
	From out that little village and the surrounding
farms about forty persons had been converted
and gathered to Nauvoo. Some brave and
true died by the wayside, when the Saints
were driven from their homes in that once beauti-
ful city, and only a few still remain alive of that
little flock, who, honest and sincere, received the
message of salvation, and laid their all upon the
altar of their faith.
	We found as many rocks as of old—the people
have not succeeded in getting rid of this feature
of the land, but the pretty villages are, many of
them, left sort of desolate, and many farming
houses we saw untenanted and farms uncultivated.
The flourishing towns and villages are where the
railroads run and the factories and machine shops
are built, and a large part of this population is
made up of Irish and French Canadians. And
think of grand old Puritanical Boston having an
Irish Mayor! We might almost fancy some of
those old primitive Bostonians rising out of their
graves and protesting against this usurpation of
their rights, if the dead troubled themselves about
earthly conditions. It is very galling to many of
the proud old Yankees to be obliged to tamely
submit to this sort of thing, but so it is; and we
could not forbear telling some of them, occasional-
ly, when a good opportunity offered, that if things
did not change with them it would not be long
until there would be more descendants of the Old
Puritan stock in Utah, than there would be in the
New England States, proud as they are of their
blood, and much as they despise the "Mor-
mons."
	Old maids and old bachelors still abound, and
families are mostly very small. Sometimes one
meets with a large family, but it is among the low-
ly born, and even rarely there; and at the rate
they are decreasing it will not take long for the
Puritan race to die out. It is not a pleasant
thought to dwell upon for one whose attachments
for New England and her people are specially
strong; there are causes for these effects, but at
present we are not dealing with the why's and
wherefore's, but simply touching upon facts.
	There are many interesting things and places
which one might elaborate upon, but one letter, or
two, or three would not "tell it all." Oh, no; we
have material for many sketches culled in our
travels here and elsewhere since leaving home.
As for religion, we find a variety of kinds, and
some strong advocates for each sect or denomina-
tion; but many more, the larger number, are
"lovers of pleasure," seeking for their own aggran-
dizement, comfort, happiness, or ambition.
	Their ministers preach for hire, and the rich
have their own churches, where the poor cannot
afford to go. On one occasion, going through a
very handsome church, said by some to be the
finest finished of any in the City of Boston, a
lady of the party remarked she would "like very
much to attend service there regularly."  In a
moment we asked, "Why don't you, then?" to
which she replied it would be impossible for her
to afford it, the seats were so expensive. Think
of such being the Gospel Christ preached without
money and without price! This proves it cannot
be. At another time, in a revival meeting at Tre-
mont Temple, Boston, on a Sunday evening, we
happened to sit in the same seat with several
young men. After a part of the services were
over, the contribution boxes were passed around;
they were very odd looking, and had long handles
to reach along the seats; evidently the young men
were not prepared, for, with an air of disgust, they
turned away, and one spoke loud enough for us


to catch his words—“Even here a fellow is not
wanted unless he has money."
	At the door of this, and many other places of
worship, we saw boxes to drop money into for
foreign missions, public charities, but these same
people are not willing to lay aside their prejudices
long enough to listen to one argument from a
“Mormon.” They hate "Mormons" with a bitter
hatred, and so intense is this feeling with many
that they shrink from the very thought of a “Mor-
mon” woman as though she were a monster. Yet
they applaud the deeds of Scripture women, such
as Ruth—happy for her that she is dead, for were
she living now, her name would be a byword and
reproach. And they call this Christian charity,
and their ministers preach from such texts as,
“Prove all things, and hold fast that which is
good." Fortunately there are some who are not
so narrow-minded; men and women who will
speak of the "Mormon" question candidly and
feelingly; but they are the exception. All the in-
formation the generality of the people are in pos-
session of about the "Mormons," has been
gathered from anti-Mormon writings, such as
Mrs. Stenhouse’s book, or Ann Eliza’s, or lectures
from these women and others of the same stamp,
and when one has the courage to defend the
principles of the "Mormons," and especially the
doctrine of a plurality of wives, they are horrified,
and will not listen. Still there are those who think
the new Edmunds law severe and unconstitutional
in some of its measures, and the advocates of
woman suffrage proclaim against the clause that
takes away that right from women, “and especial-
ly,” say they in public print, “the anti-Mormon
women." To tell the people that this persecution
is not going to destroy "Mormonism" and break it
up, is preposterous in their eyes; “the people are
determined," say they, “public opinion rules, and
the civilization of the age demands it.”  But God
rules, and turns and overturns kingdoms and peo-
ples, and truth will prevail, and Zion be established
never more to be thrown down, despite public
opinion and the civilization that cannot tolerate a
plurality of wives, and that calls it barbarism.
	We have heard it asserted by some that the re-
cent bill introduced into Congress by Edmunds
would so over-reach the mark as to result in good
to our cause; though they would not for a moment
be understood as countenancing such a thing as
"polygamy."  “Mormonism” is indeed a problem
that the world are not able to solve, and the more
they work at it, the more complicated it will be-
come, and the harder to handle; therefore it would
be wise for them to let the matter alone, for there
is a vital element in it that will outlive persecu-
tion, however bitter it may be; and like the stalk
of mustard, the more it is shaken the further it
will spread; so it will be, and man cannot hinder it,
for God hath decreed to do a marvelous work and
a wonder, and He will accomplish His purpose,
and prepare a people for the reign of peace upon
the earth; and it must needs be a people who will
keep a higher law, the law of God, and who will
make covenant by sacrifice; who dare to be true
to their convictions, even though public opinion
demands them to give up those sacred principles
which God has commanded them to obey.


