WILL THE LIGHT GO OUT?

	Probably no class of persons are watching
and waiting more anxiously the final result of
the present crusade against "Mormonism,"
than those who, for reasons best known to
themselves, have apostatized and left the
Church, and are now fighting against it. No
other class have the same interest in seeing
"Mormonism" swept away, or would feel more
truly thankful if it could be proved, what they
sincerely hope it to be, a fraud, and obliterated
from the face of the earth. The reason for
this "the wise will understand," but much of it
might be explained, even to the casual thinker,
by that feeling of hatred, almost fiendish in its
bitterness, so characteristic of the "Mormon"
apostate.
	True, there are some seceders who do not
exhibit it, but I do not regard them, except in
a limited sense of the term, as apostates, for
they either belong to a class who never had
any "Mormonism" to secede from, or to an-
other, more noble but unfortunate, who have
not in their hearts entirely forsaken the faith,
though they are counted outside the Gospel
fold.
	I am speaking more particularly of those

[Column 2]

"perturbed spirits" who, not content with fall-
ing away themselves, would fain drag everyone
else along with them, or failing in that, whelm
in ruin and disaster all who prefer to cling to
the old ship Zion, despite the example of the de-
sertion and treachery which they have set them.
	Strange, is it not, that such should be the
case? These persons are, for the most part,
men and women who have been heard to say,
perhaps a thousand times, that they knew this
religion to be the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and
have given evidence in many ways, most of
all by that infallible indication of faith and
sincerity, good works, that what they said they
meant, and were then in possession of a testi-
mony of its truth which they could not deny
and would not hear other gainsay. With re-
gard to the causes which have produced a sub-
sequent "change of heart," we have nothing
to say, nor of the peculiar predicament in
which such people find themselves, in repudiat-
ing with scorn what they before solemnly
avowed as a fact; attempting to trample in the
mire the jewel they once wore proudly
upon the breast, and "knowing" to be "all
wrong" what they are already on record for
as knowing to be right and proper in every
respect.
	Such are the ones, I repeat, who are the
most anxious to have it shown that the claims
of "Mormonism" to a divine origin are false;
and the proof of it is that they are straining
every nerve and effort in that direction. And
why this anxiety and unrest on their part? If
they know that "Mormonism" is not true, and
that they simply lied when they solemnly
testified that they knew it was true, what need
of all this nervous activity? Why this haggard
impatience, this feverish haste to have the so-
called "problem" solved by fire and sword,
and the fact of its falsity demonstrated in its
downfall, beyond the shadow of a doubt? Is it
a pure, unselfish, disinterested regard for the
welfare of humanity that inspires such inhu-
man propositions for the cure of an alleged
evil against which the battering rams of mob
violence, special legislation and polemical de-
bate have been thundering in vain for fifty
years? Or, is there another reason, supposed to
be carefully concealed, but nevertheless "gross
as a mountain, open, palpable," to all who see
aright, why the apostate from "Mormonism"
should desire, more than anyone else, to see the
system extirpated and all who cleave to it
swallowed up in the fierce maelstrom of popu-
lar fury?
	I take the ground, and am not afraid of its
being honey-combed, that no man who fights
against "Mormonism" after testifying in all
sincerity that he knows it to be the work of
God, feels positively certain that it is not. And
the bitterer his hatred, and the more active
his hostility to the pure and sacred principles
which he once practiced and advocated, the
more evident is it that in his heart of hearts
he fears and dreads, as only such souls can,
the possibility of its final triumph and his own
utter condemnation. It is the light which
dazzles the eyes and reveals our personal de-
fects, that we wish taken away. For the hon-
est man daylight has no terrors, but the evil-
doer, pursued by the torments of a guilty
conscience, would fain have the bright sun ex-
tinguished, the moon and stars blotted out and
the universe one eternal night, that he might
escape in the darkness and revel in his wrong
doing undisturbed

[Column 3]

	Those who are looking Zionward as the
winds and waves begin to rise and the storm-
clouds to lower overhead, and are asking
themselves the question, "Will her light go
out?" may take home to their souls a negative
response. The light will not go out. It was
the hand of God that kindled it, and not all
the floods of earth or the infernal regions can
drown it, or prevent it from "growing brighter
and brighter unto the perfect day." There is
no such thing in the programme of history as
the extinguishment of "Mormonism." That
programme was prepared in the heavens be-
fore the foundations of the earth were laid, and
though earth and heaven pass away, taking
with them to perdition all who forsake and
fight against God's truth, not one jot or tittle
of what He has forespoken and preordained
will fall to the ground unfulfilled.
