				A BILL

To amend an act entitled "An act to amend
	section fifty-three hundred and fifty-two of
	the Revised Statutes of the United States,
	in reference to bigamy, and for other pur-
	poses," approved March twenty-second, eigh-
	teen hundred and eighty-two.

	Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Re-
presentatives of the United States of America in
Congress Assembled, That in any proceeding and
examination before a grand jury, a judge,
justice or a United States commissioner, or a
court, in any prosecution for bigamy, polygamy,
or unlawful cohabitation, under any statute of
the United States, the lawful husband or wife
of the person accused shall be a competent
witness, and may be called and may be com-
pelled to testify in such proceeding, examina-
tion or prosecution without the consent of the
husband or wife, as the case may be; but such
witness shall not be permitted to testify as to
any confidential statement or communication
made by either husband or wife to each other
during the existence of the marriage rela-
tion.
	SEC. 2. That in any prosecution for bigamy,
polygamy, or unlawful cohabitation, under any
statute of the United States, whether before a
United States commissioner, justice, judge, a
grand jury, or any court, an attachment for
any witness may be issued by the court, judge,
or commissioner, without previons subpoena,
compelling the immediate attendance of such
witness when it shall appear to the commis-
sioner, justice, judge, or court, as the case may
be, that there is reasonable ground to believe
that such witness will unlawfully fail to obey
a subpoena issued and served in the usual
course in such cases; and in such case the usual
witness fees shall be paid to such witnesses so
attached; Provided, That no person shall be
held in custody under any attachment issued
as provided by this section for a longer time
than ten days; and the person attached may at
any time secure his or her discharge from cus-
tody by executing a recognizance, with suffi-
cient sureties conditioned for the appearance of
such person at the proper time as a witness in
the cause or proceeding wherein the attachment
may be issued.
	SEC. 3. That any prosecution under any
statute of the United States for bigamy, poly-
gamy or unlawful cohabitation may be com-
menced at any time within five years next
after the commission of the offense; but this

[Column 2]
provision shall not be construed to apply to
any offense already barred by any existing
statute of limitations.
	SEC. 4. That every ceremony of marriage,
or in the nature of a marriage ceremony, of
any kind, in any of the Territories of the
United States, whether either or both or more
of the parties to such ceremony be lawfully
competent to be the subjects of such marriage
or ceremony or not, shall be certified in writ-
ing by a certificate stating the fact and nature
of such ceremony, the full names of each of
the parties concerned, and the full name of
every officer, priest or person, by whatever style
or designation called or known, in any way
taking part in the performance of such cere-
mony, which certificate shall be drawn up and
signed by the parties to such ceremony, and
by every officer, priest and person taking part
in the performance of such ceremony, and
shall be by the officer, priest or other person
solemnizing such marriage or ceremony, filed
in the office of the probate court, or, if there
be none, in the office of the court having pro-
bate powers in the county or district in which
such ceremony shall take place, for record, and
shall be immediately recorded. Such certifi-
cate shall be prima facie evidence of the facts
required by this act to be stated therein, in any
proceeding, civil or criminal, in which the
matter shall be drawn in question. Any per-
son who shall violate any of the provisions of
this section shall be deemed guilty of a misde-
meanor, and shall, on conviction thereof, be
punished by a fine of not more than one thou-
sand dollars, or by imprisonment not longer
than two years, or by both said punishments, in
the discretion of the court.
	SEC. 5. That every certificate, record, and
entry of any kind concerning any ceremony of
marriage, or in the nature of a marriage cere-
mony of any kind, made or kept by an officer,
clergyman, priest, or person performing civil
or ecclesiastical functions, whether lawful or
not, in any Territory of the United States, and
any record thereof in any office or place, shall
be subject to inspection at all reasonable times
by any judge, magistrate, or officer of justice
appointed under the authority of the United
States, and shall, on request, be produced and
shown to such judge, magistrate, or officer by
any person in whose possession or control the
same may be. Every person who shall violate
the provisions of this section shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, on convic-
tion thereof, be punished by a fine of not more
than one thousand dollars, or by imprisonment
not longer than two years, or by both said
punishments, in the discretion of the court.
And it shall be lawful for any United States
commissioner, justice, judge, or court before
whom any proceedings shall be pending in
which such certificate, record, or entry may be
material, by proper warrant, to cause such cer-
tificate, record, or entry, and the book, docu-
ment, or paper containing the same, to be taken
and brought before him or it for the purposes
of such proceeding.
	SEC. 6. That nothing in this act shall be
held to prevent the proof of marriages, whether
lawful or unlawful, by any evidence now legal-
ly admissible for that purpose.
	SEC. 7. That it shall not be lawful for any
female to vote at any election hereafter held in
the Territory of Utah for any public purpose
whatever, and no such vote shall be received or
counted or given effect in any manner what-
ever; and any and every act of the Governor
and Legislative Assembly of the Territory of
Utah providing for or allowing the registration
or voting by females is hereby annulled.
	SEC. 8. That all laws of the Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Utah which pro-
vide for numbering or identifying the votes of
the electors at any election in said Territory
are hereby disapproved and annulled; but the


[Column 1]

foregoing provision shall not preclude the law-
ful registration of votes, or any other provis-
ions for securing fair elections which do not
involve the disclosure of the candidates for
whom any particular elector shall have
voted.
	SEC. 9. That the laws enacted by the
Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Utah
conferring jurisdiction upon probate courts, or
the judges thereof, or any of them in said
Territory, other than in respect of the estates
of deceased persons, and in respect of the
gaurdianship of the persons and property of
infants, and in respect of the persons and
property of persons not of sound mind, are
hereby disapproved and annulled; and no pro-
bate court or judge of probate shall exercise
any jurisdiction other than in respect of the
matters aforesaid; and every such jurisdiction
so by force of this act withdrawn from the
said probate courts or judges shall be had and
exercised by the district courts of said Terri-
tory, respectively.
	SEC. 10. That the laws enacted by the
Legislative Assembly of the Territory of Utah
which provide for or recognize the capacity of
illegitimate children to inherit or to be entitled
to any distributive share in the estate of the
father of such illegitimate child are hereby
disapproved and annulled; and no illegitimate
child shall hereafter be entitled to inherit from
his or her father or to receive any distributive
share in the estate of his or her father: Pro-
vided, That this section shall not apply to any
illegitimate child born previous to the passage
of this act.
	SEC. 11. That all laws of the Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Utah which pro-
vide that prosecution for adultery can only be
commenced on the complaint of the husband
or wife are hereby disapproved and annulled;
and all prosecutions for adultery may be insti-
tuted in the same way that prosecutions for
other crimes are.
	SEC. 12. That the acts of the Legislative
Assembly of Utah incorporating, continuing
or providing for the corporation known as the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
and the ordinance of the so-called General As-
sembly of the State of Deseret incorporating
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, so far as the same may now have legal
force and validity, are hereby disapproved and
annulled, so far as the same may preclude the
appointment by the United States of certain
trustees of said corporation as is hereinafter
provided. The President of the United States,
by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate, shall appoint fourteen trustees of the
said corporation, who shall have and exercise
all the powers and functions of trustees and
assistant trustees provided for in the laws
creating, amending, or continuing the said
corporation, which trustees so appointed shall
hold their respective offices for the term of two
years; and the trustees of said corporation shall
annually or oftener make a full report to the
Secretary of the Interior embracing all the
property, business affairs, and operations of the
said corporation; and the Legislative Assembly
of the Territory of Utah shall not have power
to change the laws respecting said corporation
without the approval of Congress. Said trustees
shall each give bond, payable to the United
States, with good and sufficient security, for
the faithful discharge of the duties incumbent
upon him as trustee, in such sum as may be
prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior.
	SEC 13. That it shall be the duty of the
Attorney General of the United States to in-
stitute and prosecute proceedings to forfeit and
escheat to the United States the property of
corporations obtained or held in violation of
section three of the act of Congress approved
the first day of July, eighteen hundred and
sixty-two, entitled "An act to punish and pre-

[Column 2]

vent the practice of polygamy in the Terri-
tories of the United States and other places,
and disapproving and annulling certain acts
of the Legislative Assembly of the Territory of
Utah," or in violation of section eighteen
hundred and ninety of the Revised Statutes
of the United States; and all such property so
forfeited and escheated to the United States
shall be disposed of by the Secretary of the
Inforior, and the proceeds thereof applied to
the use and benefit of the common schools in
the Territory in which such property may be:
Provided, That no building shall be forfeited
which is held and occupied exclusively for
purposes of religious worship.
	SEC. 14. That in any proceeding for the
enforcement of the provisions of law against
corporations or associations acquiring or hold-
ing property in any Territory of the United
States in excess of the amount limited by
law, the court before which such proceeding
may be instituted shall have power in a sum-
mary way to compel the production of all
books, records, papers and documents of or
belonging to any trustee or person holding or
controlling or managing property in which
such corporation may have any right, title or
interest whatever.
	SEC. 15. That all laws of the Legislative
Assembly of the Territory of Utah, or of the
so-called government of the State of Deseret,
creating, organizing, amending, or continuing
the corporation or association called the Per-
petual Emigrating Fund Company are hereby
disapproved and annulled; and it shall not be
lawful for the Legislative Assembly of the
Territory of Utah to create, organize, or in
any manner recognize any corporation or as-
sociation for the purpose of or operating to
accomplish the bringing of persons into the
said Territory for any purpose whatsoever.
	SEC. 16. That it shall be the duty of the
Attorney General of the United States to
cause such proceedings to be taken in the
Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah, as
shall be proper to dissolve the said corporation,
and pay the debts and to dispose of the pro-
perty and assets thereof according to law.
Said property and assets, in excess of the
debts and the amount of any lawful claims
established by the court against the same. shall
escheat to the United States, and shall be
taken, invested, and disposed of by the Secre-
tary of the Interior, under the direction of
the President of the United States, for the
benefit of common schools in said Territory.
	SEC. 17. That the existing election districts
and apportionments of representation concern-
ing the members of the Legislative Assembly
of the Territory of Utah, are hereby abolished;
and it shall be the duty of the Governor, Ter-
ritorial Secretary, and the United States
Judges, in said Territory, forthwith to redis-
trict said Territory, and apportion representa-
tion in the same in such manner as to provide,
as nearly as may be, for an equal representa-
tion of the people (excepting Indians not
taxed), being citizens of the United States,
according to numbers, in said Legislative
Assembly, and to the number of members of
the Council and House of Representatives,
respectively, as now established by law; and a
record of the establishment of such new dis-
tricts, and the apportionment of representa-
tion thereto, shall be made in the office of the
Secretary of said Territory, and such estab-
lishment and representation shall continue un-
til Congress shall otherwise provide; and no
persons other than citizens of the United
States otherwise qualified, shall be entitled to
vote at any election in said Territory.
	SEC. 18. That the provisions of section nine
of said act approved March twenty-second,
eighteen hundred and eighty-two, in regard
to registration of voters, and the conduct of
elections, and the powers and duties of the

[Column 3]

board therein mentioned, shall continue and
remain operative until the provision and laws
therein referred to, to be made and enacted
by the Legislative Assembly of said Territory
of Utah, shall have been made and enacted
by said Assembly, and shall have been ap-
pointed by Congress.
	SEC. 19. That whoever commits adultery
shall be punished by imprisonment in the
penitentiary not exceeding three years; and
when the act is committed between a married
woman and a man who is unmarried, both
parties to such act shall be deemed guilty of
adultery; and when such act is committed be-
tween a married man and a woman who is un-
married, the man shall be deemed guilty of
adultery.
	SEC. 20. That if any unmarried man or
woman commits fornication, each of them
shall be punished by imprisonment not ex-
ceeding six months, or by fine not exceeding
one hundred dollars.
	SEC. 21. That commissioners appointed by the
supreme court and district courts in the Terri-
tory of Utah shall possess and may exercise
all the powers and jurisdiction that are or may
be possessed or exercised by justices of the
peace in said Territory under the laws thereof,
and the same powers conferred by law on com-
missioners appointed by circuit courts of the
United States.
	SEC. 22. That the marshal of said Terri-
tory of Utah, and his deputies, shall possess
and may exercise all the powers in executing
the laws of the United States possessed and
exercised by sheriffs and their deputies as
peace officers; and each of them shall cause
all offenders against the law, in his view, to
enter into cognizance to keep the peace and
to appear at the next term of the court hav-
ing jurisdiction of the case, and to commit to
jail in case of failure to give such recognizance.
They shall quell and suppress assaults and
batteries, riots, routs, affrays, and insurrect-
tions, and shall apprehend and commit to jail
all felons.
	SEC. 23. That the office of Territorial su-
perintendent of district schools created by the
laws of Utah is hereby declared vacant; and
it shall be the duty of the Supreme Court of
said Territory to appoint a Territorial superin-
tendent of district schools, and who shall pos-
sess and exercise all the powers and duties
imposed by the laws of said Territory upon
the Territorial superintendent of district
schools, and shall receive the same salary and
compensation, which shall be paid out of the
treasury of said Territory; and the laws of
the Territory of Utah providing for the
method of election and appointment of such
Territorial superintendent of district schools
are hereby suspended until the further action
of Congress shall be had in respect thereto.
The said superintendent shall have power to
prohibit the use in any district school of any
book of a sectarian character or otherwise un-
suitable. Said superintendent shall collect
and classify statistics and other information
respecting the district schools in said Terri-
tory, showing their progress, the whole num-
ber of children of school age, the number who
attend school in each year in the respective
counties and average length of time of their
attendance, the number of teachers who are
Mormons, the number who are so-called Gen-
tiles, the number of children of Mormon pa-
rents and the number of children of so-called
Gentile parents, and their respective average
attendance at school. All of which statistics
and information shall be annually reported to
Congress, through the Governor of said Ter-
ritory and the Department of the Interior.
	SEC. 24. (a) A widow shall be endowed of
the third part of all the lands whereof her
husband was seized of an estate of inheritance
at any time during the marriage.


(b) The widow of any alien who at the time
of his death shall be entitled by law to hold
any real estate if she be an inhabitant of the
Territory at the time of such death, shall be
entitled to dower of such estate in the same
manner as if such alien had been a native
citizen.
	(c) If a husband seized of an estate of inherit-
ance in lands exchanges them for other lands,
his widow shall not have dower of both, but
shall make her election to be endowed of the
lands given or of those taken in exchange;
and if such election be not evinced by the
commencement of procedings to recover her
dower of the lands given in exchange within
one year after the death of her husband, she
shall be deemed to have elected to take her
dower of the lands received in exchange.
	(d) when a person seized of an estate of in-
heritance in lands shall have executed a mort-
gage on such estate before marriage, his widow
shall nevertheless be entitled to dower out of
the lands mortgaged as against every person
except the mortgagee and those claiming under
him.
	(e) Where a husband shall purchase lands
during coverture, and shall at the same time
mortgage his estate in such lands to secure the
payment of the purchase-money, his widow
shall not be entitled to dower out of such lands,
as against the mortgagee or those claiming un-
der him, although she shall not have united in
such mortgage; but she shall be entitled to her
dower as against all other persons.
	(f) Where in such case the mortgagee, or
those claiming under him, shall, after the
death of the husband of such widow, cause the
land mortgaged to be sold, either under a
power of sale contained in the mortgage or
by virtue of the decree of a court of equity,
and if any surplus shall remain after payment
of the moneys due on such mortgage and the
cost and charges of the sale, such widow shall
nevertheless be entitled to the interest or in-
come of the one third-part of such surplus, for
her life, as her dower.
	(g) A widow shall not be endowed of lands
conveyed to her husband by way of mortgage
unless he acquire an absolute estate therein
during the marriage period.
	(h) In case of divorce dissolving the mar-
riage contract for the misconduct of the wife,
she shall not be endowed.


