THE SIGNS OF THE TIMES.

	The world appear blind to the signs of the
times, which to the Latter-day Saints, however,
are proving beyond a doubt that the great day
approaches when, as was long ago foretold, a
government will be set up which will never
end.
	The little stone that Daniel saw cut out of
the mountain is rolling swiftly, and will soon
fill the whole earth. The wicked rule at the
present time, and thousands mourn because of
these things, and the fearful judgments that
have commenced to be poured out upon the
nations. The desolation and pestilence that
will follow the terrible deeds that have been
and are being committed against the weak and
oppressed, they are illy prepared to meet. They
cannot see the wonderful things which are be-
ing accomplished before their eyes, and which
cannot be staid. Though they may scourge
the Latter-day Saints for a little season, it is
only a purifying process which is actually
necessary to separate the gold from the dross,
and we hope will leave none but the faithful
and true, who will render more strict obedience
to the requirements of the Gospel of Christ.
We have the consolation of knowing that the
community called "Mormons" have ever been
a strictly law-abiding people, yielding obedi-
ence to every law which promotes the interest
of morality and religious liberty. They have
been instructed to befriend and support every
constitutional law of the land from the time
that this Church was organized—fifty-six
years ago; also that those who will not abide in
the covenant, even unto death, are not worthy
to be called Saints, as the Lord has declared;
and we know that He has decreed in His heart
that He will prove His Saints in all things,
that they may be found worthy.
	To polygamy and the priesthood have been
attributed all the evils that have befallen the
"Mormon" Church. How fallacious this state-
ment is!  The early Saints know that the
principle of plural marriage was never intro-
duced, much less practiced in the Church, till
after we had passed through the most cruel
persecutions. We have repeatedly testified to
this fact, and we knew when they said that
polygamy was the only thing objectionable in
"Mormonism," that were we willing to lay
aside this doctrine there would soon be other
similar requirements made at our hands. Al-
ready are we witnessing the fulfilment, and the
war is now openly declared to be against our


[Column 1]
religion. The last infamous bill introduced
by Senator Edmunds, and now pending in
Congress, is not only to take away the Church
property, but to rob the women of the privilege
of voting—the poor, sorrowing, down-trodden
slaves of the priesthood (?) of a vested right,
conferred upon them for the purpose of placing
them in a position to free themselves from the
"Mormon" hierarchy, with the full ex-
pectation of our emimies that they
would take advantage of it and lend
their assistance to break up the "Mormon"
Church. But the Latter-day Saints are blessed
with a knowledge for themselves that God
reigns supreme. Long ago we were warned of
the events which are now transpiring in
America, our beloved land of liberty, a land
which the Lord declared to be choice above all
others, where the fulness of the Gospel of
Jesus Christ has come forth, His Church been
established, and the gathering of His people
commenced. This no power will be able to
stay; and those who are striving to rouse this
people to violence, hoping to uproot and crush
out "Mormonism" will be as sadly disappointed
as have been all their predecessors. Numerous
proposals have been made for our removal as a
body to some island of the sea—to Mexico or
South America. But having received no such
teachings, nor revelation to that effect, but to
the very opposite, and believing that when we
emigrate from these mountain regions, it will
be to the spot from whence we were driven, and
knowing that the set time is near for the ful-
filment of that prediction, we look to the Lord
to accomplish it in. His own way, the same as
He did the great move of Israel across the
barren deserts to these rocky fastnesses, which
He had reserved for them and the great multi-
tude who desired to come out of Babylon.
Here we expect to remain until the set time
comes for our return to take possession of
those homes of which we were robbed and then
driven out to perish in the wilderness. The
over-ruling hand is apparent in this, too—that
Fremont and his men had explored one or two
portions of this great basin, but finding the
soil dry,and parched, they considered it alto-
gether unfit for the habitations of men. We
have cause to rejoice when we reflect upon the
mighty work that has been accomplished in
this valley. "A little one shall become a
thousand and a small one a strong nation,"
said the Prophet Isaiah. Have not this and
many more of his predictions been fulfilled
since the early days of our pilgrimage, when
we could look forward only with the eye of
faith? Can such a people feel themselves slaves
to the priesthood, as has been charged, when
every faithful Saint in Zion may himself enjoy
a portion of the priesthood? They are bound
together by no heirarchy, but by a love which
surpasseth the understanding of man. Neither
are they low and degraded, for such are always
the quickest to rebel, while the truly wise will
yield obedience to proper authority, to those
whom they have willingly accepted as their
leaders. Those who have embraced this Gos-
pel are the freest people living. We are not
trusting to priests and to their prayer like the
sectarians who suppose they have nothing more
to do than hold on to what they have, nor to
that false authority which has been received
through the mother of harlots. Such things
may do for those who know not God, and have
not obeyed His Gospel, but this ignorance can
not exist among the Saints. Each one must
receive a testimony from on high, independent
of man's. No matter how well educated he may
be, or how high his authority, he can know
only for himself and not for another. With-
out this knowledge none will be able to stand,
for the time is here when all that can be shaken
will be shaken. It is not for only a few to the
exclusion of the many, but all may know it
for themselves, and by this means all will be

[Column 2]
intelligent and may become one in all things,
even as God and His Son Jesus are one. It is
a glorious theme to dwell upon—this fulfil-
ment of the prophetic words that were spoken
concerning the work that was to be accom-
plished in the latter days,and which is a marvel
and a wonder even in the eyes of those who
have taken part in bringing it to pass.
	While looking over the Evening and Morn-
ing Star, published in Independence, Mo., my
eyes fell upon the following, written June, 1833.
It is headed, "Israel will be Gathered," and
reads: "There is something beyond expression
that cheers the heart of the Saint while con-
templating such a happy day to come, when
everything will be turned to its proper use:
the Spirit of God upon all flesh, will cause all
to fill the place of its creation, as in the day
when all was named by Adam in the Garden
of Eden. The people of the Lord may re-
joice, for the time will soon come when they
shall plant vineyards and eat: for as the days
of a tree are the days of my people, and mine
elect shall long enjoy the work of their hands.
They shall not labor in vain, nor bring forth
in trouble, for they are the seed of the blessed
of the Lord, and their offspring with them."
	Should not such a people rejoice in the
midst of their tribulations, witnessing the ful-
filment of the words of the prophets? and
should not we and our descendants hail the
days which were foretold, and the many privi-
leges enjoyed through being connected with a
people whom the Gospel has made free?
Should we doubt the final triumph of "Mor-
monism?" No; I think not. Having been
forewarned of these troublous times, we ought
in this day to be able to meet the issue.
	While the emissaries of evil are working for
our destruction we can live our religion in
spite of them or any other power this side of
heaven. And Zion's watchmen should awake
and put on the whole armor of faith and stand
in defense of the precious truths which the Al-
mighty has committed unto us, and also pro-
claim them to the honest of every nation,
kindred, tongue and people. This is the mis-
sion of Latter-day Saints, and the Lord will
sustain those who stand in the defense of its
principles. We have proven that we desire
only the welfare of our fellow beings—offering
eternal life and salvation to those who are still
walking in the paths of darkness, desiring with
all our hearts to show them the better way.
We know how the evil one is blinding the eyes
of the majority of the world to their own inter-
ests. We honor those who are actuated by
principle and are possessed of the amount of
moral courage necessary to defend the rights of
their fellow creatures against their oppressors,
who are moved by the same spirit that pos-
sessed Cain when he rose up and slew his
brother Abel, whose offering the Lord had ac-
cepted, and gloried in the thing he had done,
thinking surely that every obstacle was now
removed, and that the flocks of his brother
would fall into his hands. But the doom of
disappointment which awaits those who are
seeking the downfall of "Mormonism" will be
equal to the murderer's, when, in the bitterness
of his soul, he cried,"My punishment is greater
than I can bear!"
