NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Louise Bethune a practicing architect
of Chicago, was lately elected a member of
the American Institute of Architects.

	Sadie Bay, although only 16 years of age,
is the proprietor and editor of the Buena Vista
(Col.) Wasp; does the editorial work upon her
paper, sets all the type, conducts all of the
business of the office, and runs the press her-
self. it is a hand-press, and she has the re-
quisite muscle to perform the labor. Besides
doing all the work enumerated, Miss Bay at-
tends school every day.

	Miss Kate Kane was one of the two attor-
neys who defended the three Italians sen-
tenced in Chicago a few days ago to be hung
for strangling one of their countrymen.
Judge Hawes in passing sentence referred to
their counsel as having done everything in
their behalf that could be properly and legal-
ly done, and as serving their case as faithfully
as any attorney could.

	Miss Mamie Dickens, the eldest daughter
of Charles Dickens, has written a short bio-
graphy of her father, which will soon be pub-
lished by Cassell & Co. Miss Dickens has
condensed the story of her father's public life,
and has also shown him as he was at home,
with his family and at his work. She has giv-
en what will be regarded as the pleasantest
pen picture of the great English novelist.

	The following sums are said to have been
received by the respective authors for the
works named: "Romola," George Eliot, $50,-
000; "Waverly," Scott, $3,500; "Woodstock,"
Scott, $700; "Life of Napoleon," Scott, $90.-
000; "Armadale," Wilkie Collins, $25,000;
"Lallao Rookh," Thomas Moore, $14,000; "His-
tory of Rome," Goldsmith, $1,500; "History
of Greece," Goldsmith, $1,250; "History of Eng-
land," Goldsmith, $3,000; "Vicar of Wake-
field," Goldsmith, $300; "Decline and Fall of
the Roman Empire," Gibbon, $50,000; "Lives
of the Poets," Johnson,$1,500; "Rasselas," John
son, $500.


EXPERIENCE.—To some the experiences
they pass through are like beads upon a string,
and when the thread of life is cut, they simply
roll away out of sight and out of mind. A
new business here a new friendship there; here
a lucky accident, there a disastrous failure; here
a birth and rejoicing, there a death and mourn-
ing; and, as the mind recalls them, it finds no
special meaning attached to them and no con-
nection between them, except that of time or 
place. Another person comes out of each one
fuller, stronger, wiser than before. A serious
illness has led him to study the laws of his
physical mature, and taught him how to secure
health for himself, his family, and those whom
he may influence. A disaster in business is
sifted to the bottom, and new light is thrown on
future plans. Or a great happiness comes to
him, and he hastens to share it with others, or
learns through it how he may bless others. He
is accumulating experience, not simply to
count it over and recall its pleasure or its pain,
but to develop out of it all power and wisdom
by which his own life and the lives of all who
approach him may be improved.


