EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister:—This may be considered a suita-
ble time for the expression of the honest con-
victions of those who have had experience, and

[Column 2]
can speak from personal knowledge in relation
to the much misunderstood, maligned and insulted
principle of plural marriage, as practiced by the
Latter-day Saints. As one who has had a person-
al experience of twenty years in plural married
life, besides having been intimately connected all
her life with those who have been in the practice
of that principle, I may justly claim some right
to speak upon this subject. My connection with
plural marriage is and always has been beyond
all question a matter of honest and earnest con-
viction with me. I entered that relation volun-
tarily, and "of my own free will and choice," in
my youth, heaven having kindly favored me with
the man above all others in the world, of my choice.
Not only did I voluntarily enter into plural mar-
riage with my husband, but I have voluntarily, and
with ever increasing satisfaction, given to him
other wives, with whom for over seventeen years
we have lived, much of the time under the same
roof, with such harmony, love and union, that I
look back now over all those years with unsullied
joy and satisfaction. In no instance have I wished
to change my lot or desired greater happiness
than I enjoyed. Not until our increasing family
made it necessary, did we have a thought of sep-
arating from that dear old happy home, and even
now, tho' dwelling apart, one of the greatest of
our domestic pleasures is to spend our evenings
and leisure moments together in quiet social en-
joyment in the manner of the sweet and blessed
and happy days gone by.
	Not long before the commencement of the
present infamous persecutions and prosecutions
of our husbands, fathers and brothers for loving,
honoring and sustaining their trusting wives and
children, one of my husband's wives said to me,
"I am afraid our happiness is too great, I hope
nothing will happen to deprive us of the blessings
we enjoy." I replied, "Why, what could happen?
We make our own happiness, who can take it away
from us?" Little did we dream at that time that
such a state of things as now exists would ever
come to pass in our once peaceful, free and happy
land.
	Why should I and my husband's wives, willing
and united companions in domestic happiness,
best suited to our choice, and our children, be
disturbed in our peaceful possession of the do-
mestic felicity which springs from our own hearts
and from the associations and relations which
we regard as most sacred and eternal? Who
shall dare to say that the partner of our choice is
not as dear to us and as much beloved as the
choicest husband of any woman in the land? I do
not assume to speak for my sisters without know-
ing whereof I speak, (they can speak for them-
selves,) but this much I make bold to say, there
is no other man in all this world that can fill the
station in our affections nor in our homes that
our husband occupies.
	And who can match him in his children's eyes,
or represent him in their hearts? We entered
into plural marriage in good faith, both as touch-
ing the laws of God and the laws of man. We
were not conscious of having violated
any constitutional law. The act of Congress of
1862, in relation to polygamy, the only law then
in existence relating to the matter, was universally
believed to be a "dead letter," because unconsti-
tutional, and for many years was so treated by the
courts as well as by the people of Utah, "Mor-
mons" and "Gentiles." Still when it comes
to a question of conscience, I have never
felt that I have been guilty of any crime, notwith-
standing the actions of the courts validating the
laws then in existence and since enacted against
polygamy. It is not a question of law with us,
but a matter of conscience, of religious convic-
tion and of earnest and undying faith in the laws
and purposes of God, a matter of happiness or
misery, of life or death. To be deprived of our
husband and father, in the manner prescribed by


[Column 1]
our present persecutors is to be robbed not only
of him who is the man of our choice above all
others on earth, the being dearest to the heart of
a wife, the father of her children, his providence,
guidance and protection, but of our honor and
good name, of our happiness and our home, aye
our home, for deprived of his society, impartially
bestowed, as designed and demanded by the
unprincipled crusaders, it would cease to be
home; but blessed with his society as heretofore,
shared justly by each of his families, I would not
exchange my lot nor my happiness nor my home,
however humble, with the doting mother of
President Grover Cleveland, nor with his wife—if
he had one—and he was better to her than rubies
or gold. Nor would I stop to imagine what the
world might say about it either. I have never
envied any woman's happiness, mine was enough
for me. I never coveted any woman's home, be-
cause my home,shared with my husband and his
wives, was good enough for me. I ask for no
better. I am satisfied with my lot. I have never
injured any living creature, to my knowledge. I
have never sought what did not legitimately be-
long to me, nor deprived any man or woman of a
single right guaranteed by the constitution of my
native land or the law of God; and in view of
these and many more facts and reasons which
might be named, is it unreasonable that I should
ask the government and the people of the United
States—"just be so kind to yourselves as to let
me and mine alone." Our circumstances, necessi-
ties and desires, nor the good of society, so far
as we are concerned, ever required the passage of
wicked and cruel laws to destroy our religion, to
and woe to our happy homes. There is no reason
why the Congress of the United States should
pass such laws as the acts of 1862 and 1882 and
the more shame for them that they should violate
their oath of office, and the constitution to do so,
and thereby foist a fearful blot upon the fair fame
of their country. These unconstitutional laws,
and the oppression resulting therefrom, and the
treatment of Utah by the parent government
throughout is
	"A blot that will remain a blot, in spite
	Of all that grave apologists may write;
	And tho' a bishop try to cleanse the stain,
	He rubs and scours the crimson spot in vain."
	How easy it would have been for our enemies
and for the authorities of the United States to
have adopted the counsel of one of old, in their
treatment of the "Mormon question" and saved
themselves from the fearful consequences of their
present course—consequences fraught with sor-
row, suffering and affliction to the Latter-day
Saints, but a thousand times more terrible to their
oppressors. Said Gamaliel, "Refrain from these
men and let them alone, for if this counsel or this
work be of men it will come to nought, but if it
be of God ye cannot overthrow it!"
	Should this work prove to be of men, the
world—"the Christian world"—would far better
have shown their Christian forbearance, by "let-
ting it alone" until it should come to nought, and
thereby have saved themselves from the fearful
and awful consequences which must follow if
"haply they be found to be fighting against God."
So far as our relation to our husbands is con-
cerned, it is not only a condition of choice, but of
sacred duty.
	We have entered into these sacred relations re-
ligiously, and not without the most overwhelming
conviction and certainty of the sacredness thereof,
incurring responsibilities which are of a binding
and eternal nature.
	These relations have been formed, in all cases
before God innocently, and in thousands of cases
as innocently before the country, and these obliga-
tions have occurred as innocently, and what are
we to do about it? Should we shrink and cower
before the unjust, merciless, vindictive foe, and

[Column 2]
surrender all that we hold dear and sacred on
earth and in heaven, and become craven cowardly
backsliders, forfeiting all claim to honest woman-
hood and the hope of heavenly recognition in
time and throughout eternity?
	Who can contemplate such a course without
feeling a shudder of horror thrill their soul! Or
shall we calmly trust in God and stand by our
convictions, our husbands, and our children, let
come what may, and maintain our homes, made
doubly sacred by the eternal covenants of the
Gospel to the last? We cannot afford to do
otherwise, we have too much at stake and our
husbands having even more to lose than we have
personally, must stand true, whether in bonds, or
prison, or life or death. I am,
			Yours for the truth,
								J. L. S.


