[Vol4 | August 1917 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: August Entertainment Morag]

August Entertainment. By Morag. "The changes for autumn already appear, A harvest of plenty has crowned the glad year, While soft smiling zephyrs from orchards and bowers Bring odors of joy from the fruit and the flowers." The long days of August are usually filled with work for our women, with bottling fruit, making preserves, canning vegetables, drying corn, and the like, and there is very little time for social affairs; still, there are occasions when we can meet together and enjoy each other's society and help. How about an early morning fruit picking bee, followed by a dainty breakfast on the screened porch? This might be a prelude to a CANNING PARTY. Invitation Come to our canning party Come when you can, Stay as long as you can. Bring a can of something.  The fruit or vegetables gathered in the morning may now be prepared and canned. Here is a canning game: A can that gives light, a can that is sweet, A can that is truthful, and one you can eat, A can that's a city, a can to erase. One spanning a river, and one that's a pace. A can that's a savage, a way for a boat, A can that's a country, and one that will float. One useful in warfare, a dreadful disease. And one that can warble with sweetness and ease. Answers: Candle, Candy, Candid, Cantaloupe, Canton, Cancel, Cantilever, Canter, Canrrbal, Canal. Canada. Canoe, Cannon. Cancer, Canary. Refreshments may be served from canned Utah products. A CORN SOCIAL. Here is a unique church entertainment for autumn: Decorate with corn in its various forms, popcorn in strings, corn stalks and ears, etc. 
 A program of harvest time music may be given. Readings suggested: "The Corn Song," 'The Huskers," by Jehu G. Whittier, "Blessing the Cornfields,'* by Longfellow. A novel Biblical menu is given: Com mush, Joshua 5:2: corn bread, I Kings 21:7; corn beef, Genesis 18:8; com rake. Numbers 9:8; com starch pudding, Deuterononry 18:4; popcorn, Ruth 2:14: com coffee. Leviticus 9:0. During the summer months don't forget the old folks and the shut-ins! Old folks" reunions should he held in every com munity. The younger people in one ward have set aside a certain time in each week to entertain the old people and willows. and during this time they gather with their carriages and autos and take the old folks for a rile. Those who are homebound are cheered with (lowers and a song or two. and much -odd results to all concerned. For the home evening take an imaginary trip over some of the seas an 1 lakes mentioned in Scripture. Follow the Jantics across the sea to die Promised Land. Take a sail in the ship built by Xephi. or one of the ships of Higoth. Go with Alma to the waters of Mormon. Join with John on the river Jordan and the Dead Sea. Spend a few moments by Siloam's shady rill, or journey with Jesus on the Sea of Galilee. Sing "Galilee/' "Peace he Still.'* "Down by the River's Verdant Side." A report has been sent in of a very successful entertainment recently held in Wilford, Granite stake. The pro-ram was given by the members of the Relief Society, under the able leadership of Mrs. M. Dott White. The opening numbers were by the ward bishopric and consisted of a humorous song, Dutch reading in costume, and a funny dialogue. This was followed by the play. "The Old Peabody Lew." by Kate Douglass Wiggin, found in February Ladies' Home Journal}. A series of living movies with song accompaniment followed. The tableaux were enacted in a large picture frame. The music was sung by solo voices, male, mixed, and ladies' quartets. The songs illustrated follow: "When the Little Say goodnight," luanita." "Annie Laurie." "Kentucky Babe," "Sweet and Low," "Mother Machree." "Tit for Tat," ''Missionary's Parting," "Star Spangled Banner." (Ones of home made ice cream were served and die program was given two evenings to capacity houses and a very substantial sum was realized. I can recommend this as a typical program. Relief Society talent and one who enjoyed, Try it. AUGUST AMUSEMENTS. 
 Marguerites made of long salted wafer crackers, spread with a filling made of white of egg, walnut meats chopped very fine, and enough pulverized sugar to spread easily and put together like sandwiches. Serve with chocolate or grape juice. Dainty brown bread sandwiches are made with a filling made of one-third raisin, two-thirds walnuts; run through a meat chopper and moisten with enough grape juice to spread easily. Whipped cream with chopped nuts stirred into it, and chilled and served in sherbet glasses, with sandwiches or cake, is delicious. Baked or steamed apples with the cores filled with chopped nuts, with whipped cream poured over, and a bit of currant jelly on top, and served with angel food. Junket made with different flavors served with cream and nut cake. Fruit salad served with cheese straws or cheese wafers are most appetizing. Bouillon and cream soups are often served in cups with bread sticks or sandwiches. Almond custard, which is ordinary custard with chopped almonds in it, can be served with salted wafers. For an orange party: Frozen custard in orange cups, orange jelly with whipped cream, cake with orange icing, orangeade. A good menu for a children's party: Cocoa with whipped cream, minced chicken and tongue sandwiches, rose pudding, pink and white popcorn. Rose pudding is made by boiling a quart of milk, a bit of lemon rind, and sugar enough to sweeten. Color a pretty rose pink, thicken with cornstarch and flavor with vanilla. Line a glass dish with lady fingers or small cakes and pour in the cream when cool. Ornament the top with marshmallows. For a lemon party: Chicken salad served in lemon baskets, corn bread, lemon cream tarts and lemon sherbet. For lemon cream take six eggs, one-half pound butter, one pound sugar, grated rind and juice of three large lemons. Put sugar, butter and lemon juice and rind in double boiler. Beat eggs well, and add when sugar is thoroughly dissolved. Cook until mixture thickens. This makes one quart. If put in jelly glasses with wax on top will keep for a long time. It is fine for cake filling, for tarts, spread on crackers, for sandwiches, etc. Try some.