[Vol4 | August 1917 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Does it Pay Marie Jensen]

Does It Pay? Marie Jensen. It seems to me, I once did say, that you are always spending So much good time  if you were home you might do lots of mending. If I spent half the time you do at meeting every day, I'd go behind with all my work, I'm sure it docs not pay. Religion I have never found a paying proposition: It's meeting or it's giving gifts without much compensation. I want religion to be light: if it were easy work, I'd take a hand in everything and not hang back and shirk. Thus I found fault with these dear sisters who always were attending Their duties in a quiet way; to me it was offending. I thought they ought to stay at home and mind their children; there They'd find enough to do, with all their household care. But as I grew in years, I found those sisters who were trying To help the work of God along, to cheer the sick and dying, Were just the humblest of them all, the best ones in the ward, Denying self and home, at times, to labor for the Lord. And while I pity them at times, no more I'm found fault-finding. If they help in a public way, myself I will be minding, And see if there is not a place that's suited for me there, And I will work both night and day and others' burdens share. So, sisters, stay not always home. Come forward, join the ranks Of those who labor in our Church for nothing but our thanks. They are the chosen and the true; they wave their banner high. R. S. floats over every home, its name will never die. 'Tis the path ordained by Father you are treading here on earth. And if you His pathway follow He will test and prove your worth. In His furnace He will try you, till you soar above life's ill; So, rejoice in tribulation, bow in meekness to His will. Though your youth has long since vanished, let your hopes be very young; Gladly take what He will send you, sing His praise with heart and tongue. Though fast, the future now is hidden 'neath the rain-drops, falling These will vanish by the sunshine which the Lord will send at last