[WomansExponent | Vol3 | 1874 | August | Issue: 6 | Title: FLOWERS. | Author: Unknown]

FLOWERS.

	REVENGE often converts a little right in-
to a great wrong.
	HE who is always his own counsellor will
often have a fool for his client.
	RUN not after blessings; only walk in the
commandments of God, and blessings shall
run after, and overtake you.
	ALMOST every one complains of the bad-
ness of his memory, but nobody complains
of his defective judgement.
	IT has been beautifully said that "the vail
which covers the face of futurity was woven
by the hand of mercy."
	WHAT God effects through the powers
with which he has endowed man is no less
His work than the heavens and the earth
are.—A. P. Peabody.
	THE man who can refuse indulgence to a
clamoring desire, can hold the craving ape-
tite ungratified, and say to the rising pas-
sion, "Peace, be still!" is a true hero.
	THE truly great and good, in affliction
bear a countenance more princely than they
are wont; for it is the temper of the high-
est hearts, like the palm-tree, to strive most
upward when it is most burdened.
	EACH one of a thousand acts of love costs
very little by itself, and yet, when viewed
all together, who can estimate their value?
What is it that secures for one the name of
a kind neighbor? Not the doing of half a
dozen great favors in as many years, but the
little everyday kindnesses none of which
seem of much consequence considered in
itself, but the continued repitition of which
sheds a sunlight over the whole neighbor-
hood.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	L. GREENE RICHARDS, Editor.
CORNELIA H. HORNE, Business Manager.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. 
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
$1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, eight lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, on West Temple St., near First South
St., opposite City Market place. Business hours from 9
a.m. to 4 p.m. on Mondays and Fridays.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

		     SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 15, 1874.


