Home Problems In Wartime Edna K. Ward WE who cannot carry the gun can still carry on. To our husbands or sons in the fox holes or in the jungle, thoughts of home and of mother sustain them during the awful experience and stress of war. Our duration duty in addition to war activities is to preserve the home as he remembers it. In reviewing some of the practical problems that wartime shortages and restrictions create, let us consider possible means of prolonging the life of the following furnishings and equipment in the home: Draperies Curtains Blinds Carpets Furniture Linens Kitchen equipment Shoes At the present time all fabrics are very difficult to replace. The new, postwar fabrics promise to be something well worth waiting for. A great many will be immune to ordinary wear and tear, resistant to soil and dust, easy to clean and sun-fast. Rugs and woolens will be moth proof, blankets will refuse to shrink, and organdies and window curtains will retain their crispness. Making our present fabrics last through serves two good purposes: (1) lessens the demand on our present, limited civilian supplies. (2) invites replacement with the newer textiles that will be available after the war. This replacement is a backlog of postwar employment. Page 348 Draperies and Curtains The greatest enemy of fabrics is the combustion products in the atmosphere of our cities, especially in the winter time. These products, plus moisture, create acid chemicals that attack the substance of the fabric. If draperies and curtains are cleaned with vacuum attachments regularly through the cold winter months the wearability and beauty will be greatly improved. 1. Where there is city smoke, vacuum and brush draperies and curtains once a week during the coldest winter months. 2. Wash glass curtains when needed, using careful methods of handling, mild soaps, and proper water temperature. 3. Darn tiny breaks or holes in glass curtains with threads of the curtain material from the turned hem. (Most curtain hems are double.) Do this before laundering. 4. If stretchers are used, measure curtains before laundering and set stretchers 3-4 inches narrower to prevent the wet material from splitting under strain. All rayon loses tensile strength when damp. The new postwar material will not need to be stretched. 5. For spring cleaning, lay draperies on sheets spread on the floor and wipe with numerous Turkish towels, using non-inflammable cleaning fluid for spots. Blinds Most blinds are washable. These can be laid flat on the floor on a sheet and warm soapy water used with a washing cloth, a rinsing cloth, and a dry cloth. If wiped dry they can be rolled and replaced at once. Do not rub parallel to the edge? this tends to stretch the edges. Carpets Regular vacuuming keeps rugs and carpets clean. The rotary-brush-type vacuum should not be set too low or it tends to beat the nap out of the carpet. With the deeper pile rugs, soiling will be mainly on the surface and spots and respond to an old bath towel wrung from soapy water or moistened with non-inflammable cleaning fluids. Never use gasoline in the home. Many serious accidents have resulted from the use of inflammable cleaning fluids which are ignited by the static electric spark created by rubbing.
Rugs should be turned to avoid wear in places of most use. Throw rugs or places of heavy traffic are a good investment.
Stairway rugs can usually be reversed to bring edge wear on other places. Extra length tucked under at one end can be moved up to bring tread wear to a new surface.
Furniture
The fine surface and finish of good furniture requires very little attention other than frequent dusting. Two or three times a year the surface should be washed, using a mild, soapy water, a clean rinse cloth, and a dry cloth. Then apply furniture polish with a damp cloth. Allow to dry one-half hour and polish.
Light scratches and marks are improved by using a mixture of beeswax dissolved in turpentine until the mixture is the consistency of molasses and applied with a woolen cloth.
Upholstered furniture keeps clean with frequent brushing and spotting with non-inflammable cleaning fluid.
Tufting buttons may be replaced with a mattress needle and heavy linen twine. This tufting helps keep springs in their proper place.
Household Linens
All mattresses should be turned once a week. Mattress pads or folded cotton blankets can be kept fresh by frequent laundering. The habit of shaking all quilts and blankets at least once a month aids in keeping lint from accumulating. Changing both sheets at the same time makes a really fresh bed, rather than only a half-fresh bed where the top sheet is used for the bottom.
To preserve linens (sheets, tablecloths, napkins, handkerchiefs) don't iron along the folds where wear shows first. Small linens like napkins, luncheon cloths, handkerchiefs, and guest towels can be ironed flat, laid out on a table or rack and then folded by hand. All table linen will wear much longer if rolled. Bamboo poles on which carpets are rolled, or pasteboard rolls covered with tissue paper may be used. This is the place to utilize those Christmas wrappings you saved?for the rolls themselves and to cover the linens.
Worn sheets can be torn down the middle, the outer edges sewn together and the resulting outer edges hemmed. This will give many extra months' wear. Worn sheets also can be cut down and hemmed for crib sizes, made into pillow cases, or used as covers for summer dresses and suits stored in closets during the winter, and vice versa for winter garments. When changing a sheet be careful 
not to pull it off without first releasing it from bottom and sides. Flour and sugar sacks used for dish towels gain appearance and life when hemmed. Our mothers and grandmothers used these sacks for children's undies. With children's clothing selling at the high prices it is today, and materials so difficult to get, why couldn't this old-fashioned, thrifty habit be revived using modern innovations? Linoleum Many of the linoleum factories have closed, and many are closing this spring as are also the rug and carpet factories. Linoleum can be preserved to double the wear by regular waxing. Either liquid or hard wax may be used. The writer has just recently tried a new, clear plastic paint on her linoleum drainboards that also may be used for floors. It gives a shiny, smooth appearance and claims preservation of the linoleum. These new plastic products promise to fulfill many needs in the home as they are smooth, resistant to heat and staining, and are highly durable. Refrigerators and Ranges Refrigerators should be cleaned regularly. Enamel is preserved by avoiding hard knocks on the inside or outside. The "handy man of the home" or the utility service man can at intervals check the fan belt, clean the deposit from the radiator, and oil the motor in the electric-type unit. Units on ranges last longer if food is not allowed to boil over, and if the units are lifted out and cleaned carefully, but thoroughly, after each use. Turn units to low or simmer to keep foods just at the rolling boil. This helps prevent scorching, saves fuel and often keeps things from boiling over. Avoid opening oven doors carelessly or placing heavy objects on oven doors or dropping them onto the enamel. Repair service cannot be had at once, and parts often cannot be replaced. Have a place of storage for each piece of the small kitchen equipment. This will save your time, your disposition, and your equipment, and, in addition, it will greatly improve the orderly appearance of the kitchen itself. A clean, well-organized, well-lighted kitchen is the "heart of the home." From that kitchen come many of the pleasant memories that our boys are dreaming about right now in their fox holes. And very soon after returning, it is the place to which they will gravitate. Shoes One of the real problems now with shoe rationing is prolonging the life of children's shoes. Our fathers owned a shoe last, an awl, a hammer and a box of tacks. Leather soles costing twenty-five cents were tacked on as the original sole began to fail. This doubled the life of a shoe and could sometimes be repeated. The revival of this thrifty custom, particularly with large families, would ease materially the strain on the budget and the shoe coupons. Let's take care of our homes. The old things that have had loving care and been preserved are often much more beautiful than newer, flashy modern things.