[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | August | Issue: 9 | Title: The Value of Our Class Work | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

THE VALUE OF OUR CLASS WORK.
	A paper prepared, and read by Sister Vin-
cy R. Barker at the annual conference of the
Relief Society of the Ogden stake, July 19,
1913.
	“With all thy getting get understanding.”
The Glory of God is intelligence.” Intelli-
gence is education, and education is the
harmonious development of all our powers.
As ordinarily used it is the development and
cultivation of our intellectual powers.
	The daughters of Zion, the mothers in
Israel have long hungered and thirsted for
that mental and spiritual exercise that will
help us to keep pace with our husbands
and children.
	We have been deprived of this in a great
measure by our too close application to the
cares and responsibilities of family and
home. At times we have chafed under it
while knowing that home should be the most
sacred spot on earth, yet we were lacking in
spiritual and intellectual strength to make
it so.
	Sometimes one has felt the impulse to
fly away and leave it all for very weariness,
indeed it has sometimes been positively nec-
essary to have change and activity of our.
dormant faculties. A thoughtless word, a
careless act from some loved one has been
enough to break the nervous tension and
flee we must or collapse. Too much ner-
vous strain, too little variety, overtaxation
of the physical, starvation of the mental and
spiritual, oh what a pitiful condition when
a mother feels like a prisoner in her own
home, doomed to a life of drudgery, the
same routine day by day and year after
year.
	Sisters, I know whereof I speak. We
understand by what we suffer. I had been
in some form of class work all my life until
about four years previous to the organiza-
tion of the Ogden stake. During that four
years, I have often gone out into the night
after my family were asleep, feeling that my
life was worth nothing but as a-dish washer.-
Sometimes I would walk and walk before
my pent feelings grew calm.
With each step my sad heart became lighter,
	Life’s turmoil to quell; Nature’s balm
		strove,
I returned to my home, found it brighter,
	Filled with- health, plenty, quiet and love.
	I knew that love and confidence for me
filled every heart. I thanked the Lord for
my blessings and took up my work of lov-
ing service again, but I could not drive out
of my heart the yearning for association
with others, the pining for systematic study,
the craving for broader activities which
were satisfied only when I was called to la-
bor in the class work department of the Re-
lief Society.
	It means work, oh yes ancl plenty of it!
but oh, the glorious opportunity of doing
active, effective, directed work along lines
that have been crowded out of our daily
routine; work that exercises faculties and
powers that have lain dormant so long that
many have come to believe that they do
not possess them at all. Oh the Joy that
comes to the class teacher when she sees
these powers awakening in her class. With
aroused interest a wistful longing expression
comes into the faces of the sisters; the desire
to do is approaching the inner soul is beings
reached; heart meets heart in love and sym-


[Column 1]
pathy and understanding. Sympathy is the
class teacher’s key and she feels with Elbert
Hubbard that, “No person is great who
does not possess sympathy.” Your heart
must go out to all men, the high, the low,
the rich, the poor, the learned, the unlearned,
the good, the bad, the wise, the foolish. It
is necessary to be one with them all, else you
can never understand them.
	The introduction of class work into the
Relief Society came as a boon to us all; it is
a means of education and uplift that all
may grasp and thus enlarge our horizon,
expand our sphere of usefulness and make
of ourselves what our Heavenly Father ex-
pects at our hands.
	The value of the different courses of
study is so broad that they reach every part
of us. Hygiene for middle age not only
helps those of that age to pass successfully
through that period but prepares the young
mothers for its approach by teaching them to
live now for what is before them.
	The “Young Mother’s Work” teaches
them to better understand their children and
how to direct their efforts for good, how to
play with them, and the value of play, with
the result that they keep closer to their chil-
dren; they bring themselves back to child-
hood and see things through children’s eyes,
understand with their understanding and
enjoy with a child’s enjoyment, thus their 
companionship is complete, exemplifying the
thought, “and a little child shall lead them.”
Together they watch for the manifestations
of God.
	“In the sun, the moon, the sky,
	In the mountains wide and high,
	In the thunder, in the rain,
	In the winds, the woods, the plain,
	In the little birds that sing,
	God is seen in everything.”
	A study of current events broadens us by
showing a view of the world and its pro-
gress, a knowledge of its important events
and that the turmoil that at present exists
is in fulfilment of prophecies by our own
Prophet Joseph Smith. This is all an added
testimony to us of the divinity of his mis-
sion.
	Biographies of the noble women of our
Church and of the world are an inspiration
to us. “Sewing Topics” gives us valuable
thoughts for discussion in our sewing meet-
ings, thus eliminating gossip and light-
mindedness. The Theological gives us a
more definite understanding of the princi-
ples of the Gospel, making us broader mind-
ed and better, able to defend the faith than
ever before. By coming in contact with
other faiths we intensify our own by com-
parison. The Genealogical work is of tre-
mendous import. To us above all people
on the earth, it is important. It is necessary
for us to keep in touch with the great world
movement in this line of work. It has three
distinct phases, the social, the scientific and
the spiritual. Many people spend much time
and money tracing their pedigree to estab-
lish their relationship to noted personages
or nobility, etc., to gratify pride or to be-
come eligible to societies such as the “Sons
and Daughters of the Revolution,” “Daugh-
ters of the Pioneers,” etc. This is the social
side. The scientific phase brings into gene-
alogy the science of eugenics or heredity,
which when studied and applied will tend
to improve the race physically and mentally

[Column 2]
by teaching the value of proper mating. An
article by Stoddard Goodhue, in the July
“Cosmopolitan magazine” teaches that every
man and woman should know the ancestry
of the contemplated marriage partner, and
knowing it, have the courage, if there is
any taint, to put aside present happiness for
the good of the race. The editor’s note on
this article says—“Have I the right to get
married? if already married, have I the
right to have children? If I have children
will they be healthy in mind and body or will
they be feeble-minded or consumptive, or
epileptic, or so sickly and defective that they
will be a burden to themselves and to their
parents?” The time is coming when every
intelligent man and woman must ask him-
self or herself such questions as those—di-
rect personal, practical questions. The new
knowledge of heredity makes it imperative
to do so. The long controversy about the
relative influence of heredity and environ-
ment has been settled for all time. We
know now that the possibilities of any in-
dividual are determined before birth; if you
are to select a marriage partner wisely and
gie your prospective children half a chance
in life, you must be familiar with at least
the essentials of this new knowledge. Last
and best is the spiritual phase, which in-
volves the keeping of genealogy for further-
ing the work of salvation of the living and
the dead, and the binding together of fami-
lies for time and all eternity. I might have
added another phase, the technical—or the
art of collecting and recording data. This
part of the work was given in our gene-
alogical class, taught by Sister Annie Lynch
of the Woman’s Committee of the genealog-
cal association and as a result of the prec-
ous seed sown by her we have aimed to
put theory into practice. Knowing that the
records in the majority of the homes of the
Saints are in a deplorable condition, no
thought being given to the recording of
passing events, we have prepared a form,
containing the direct ancestry of husband
and wife back to the second great grand par-
ents, the children of the couple, and whom
they married, and the work the sister is now
performing in the Church as also a place
for all she has heretofore done. Practice
may never strictly conform to theory but
we believe that great good will result from
the work thus begun.
	One cannot fill out our form without feel-
ing the force of our two mottos, “Record
data today, tomorrow it may be beyond your
reach,” and, “We who forget the past have
no claim to be remembered by the future.”
There never will come a time when the
chances are better than today for the pre-
serving of necessary data. Every day the
aged are passing away and with them valu-
able information which we may sorely need
but be unable to secure, and therefore we
are working to secure actual, authentic data
and have it properly recorded and placed on
file in our societies for future use. The
great amount of work that thisrequires
makes us feel that, “The man is greatest
who best serves his kind.”
	Sympathy and knowledge are for use—
you acquire that you may give out you ac-
cumulate that you may bestow. And as
God has given you the sublime blessings of
sympathy, and wisdom, there will come to
you the wish to reveal your gratitude by
giving them out again; for the wise man is
aware that we receive only as we give. Let

[Column 3]
your light shine; “To him that hath shall be
given.”
	We get inspiration only as we fit ourselves
to receive it. Let us get that we may give,
knowing that our work leads us to wisdom,
sympathy, education and the glory of God.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


