[Vol28 | February 1941 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Article | Title: Excerpts from the Sermons and Writings of President Heber J. Grant (Selected | Author: Marianne C. Sharp)]
EXCERPTS  FROM  THE  SERMONS  AND  WRITINGS 
OF  PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 
As  Published  in  The  Improvement  Era 
(Selected  by  Marianne  C.  Sharp) 
"I  believe  that  no  worthy  young  Latter- 
day  Saint  man  or  woman  should  spare  any 
reasonable  effort  to  come  to  a  house  of 
the  Lord  to  begin  hfe  together.  The  mar- 
riage vows  taken  in  these  hallowed  places 
and  the  sacred  covenants  entered  into  for 
time  and  all  eternity  are  proof  against 
many  of  the  temptations  of  life  that  tend 
to  break  homes  and  destroy  happiness." 
(April,  1936,  page  198) 
"I  thank  God  from  the  bottom  of  my 
heart  that  I  read  the  life  of  Nephi  in  my 
youth.  I  fell  in  love  with  him  then,  and 
his  life  has  influenced  mine  for  good  more 
than  that  of  any  other  character  in  ancient 
history,  sacred  or  profane,  save  only  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world."  (March,  1934, 
page  160) 
"In  all  my  labors  I  got  nearer  to  the 
Lord  and  had  more  joy  in  the  mission 
field  than  ever  before  or  since,  and  the  joy 
I  experienced  in  the  mission  field  was  su- 
perior to  any  I  have  experienced  elsewhere." 
(July,  1937,  page  405) 
"It  is  a  God-given  law  that  in  proportion 
to  the  service  we  give,  in  proportion  to 
what  we  do  in  this  Church  and  out  of  it — 
what  we  are  willing  to  sacrifice  for  the 
Church  and  for  those  to  whom  we  owe  our 
loyalty  outside  of  Church  activity — we 
shall  grow  in  the  grace  of  God  and  in  the 
love  of  God,  and  we  shall  grow  in  accom- 
plishing the  purposes  of  our  being  placed 
here  on  the  earth."   (March,   1940,  page 
137) 
"I  am  thankful  for  the  Gospel,  beyond 
all  power  with  which  God  has  endowed 
me  to  express  my  thoughts;  for  this  is  the 
Gospel,  the  glad  tidings  of  which  the  voice 
out  of  the  heavens  bore  record  unto  us — 
that  He  came  into  the  world,  even  Jesus 
Christ,  to  sanctify  the  world  and  to  cleanse 
it  from  unrighteousness,  and  to  save  all  the 
creatures  of  His  hands,  to  save  all  except 
those  that  deny  the  Son  after  the  Father 
has  revealed  Him.  This  Gospel  is  for  all, 
and  it  helps  all  who  embrace  it  with  full 
purpose  of  heart  to  meet  the  stresses  of 
life  with  courageous  assurance."  (Septem- 
ber, 1939,  page  521) 
"Why  is  it  that  Latter-day  Saints  are 
enabled  to  convert  people?     It  is  because 
they  have  the  truth  to  offer,  because  they 
have  no  doubt  in  their  minds  regarding 
the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are 
engaged."   (September,  1938,  page  519) 
"If  there  is  one  thing  more  than  another 
that  I  would  like  above  all  other  things  to 
impress  upon  young  men  it  is  a  desire  to 
find  some  labor,  some  work  in  connection 
with  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  through 
which  they  can  give  something  to  this 
Gospel."  (July,  1939,  page  393) 
"I  want  to  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
I  am  convinced,  beyond  the  shadow  of  a 
doubt,  that  no  man  or  woman  can  fulfill 
any  law  of  God  but  that  he  is  bound  to 
receive  the  blessing  attached  to  that  law. 
The  Lord  never  forgets.  The  Lord  never 
fails  to  bestow  the  blessing  upon  those 
who  have  fulfilled  the  law."  (October, 
1939,  page  585) 
"The  Lord  gives  to  many  of  us  the  still, 
small  voice  of  revelation.  It  comes  as  vivid- 
ly and  strongly  as  though  it  were  with  a 
great  sound.  It  comes  to  each  man,  ac- 
cording to  his  needs  and  faithfulness,  for 
guidance  in  matters  that  pertain  to  his 
own  life."    (December,    1938,  page  712) 
"Every  law  that  is  given  to  us  in  the 
Church  is  for  our  own  individual  benefit." 
(December,   1939,  page  713) 
"But  faith  and  knowledge  without  prac- 
tice are  of  no  value.  All  the  knowledge 
in  the  world  would  not  amount  to  any- 
thing unless  we  put  that  knowledge  into 
actual  practice."   (June,   1939,  page  329) 
"May  the  Lord  bless  you,  one  and  all,  is 
my  prayer  for  you.  I  thank  God  that  I 
know  we  have  the  truth.  I  thank  God 
that  I  know  that  He  lives,  that  He  hears 
and  answers  my  prayers,  that  He  guides 
me  by  His  Spirit,  that  He  gives  me  the 
inspiration  of  His  Spirit  to  know  what  to 
do  and  how  to  do  it  for  the  benefit  of  His 
people  here  on  the  earth.  I  thank  God  for 
the  remark  made  to  me  by  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith — the  last  remark  that  he  made 
before  he  passed  on — 'The  Lord  knows 
whom  He  wants  to  stand  at  the  head  of 
His  Church,  and  the  Lord  never  makes 
any  mistakes.  The  Lord  bless  you;  the 
Lord  bless  you.'  "  (May,  1939,  page  319)

LESSON 
DEPARTMENT 
cJheoloqyi  and  cJestimony 
THE  RESTORED  GOSPEL  DISPENSATION 
Lesson  8 
Obedience— President  Heber  J.  Grant 
(Tuesday,  May  6,  1941) 
"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I,  Nephi,  said  unto  my  father:  I  will  go  and  do  the 
things  which  the  Lord  hath  commanded,  for  I  know  that  the  Lord  giveth  no  command- 
ments unto  the  children  of  men,  save  he  shall  prepare  a  way  for  them  that  they  may 
accomphsh  the  thing  which  he  commandeth  them."  (I  Nephi  3:7) 
r\N  June  1,  1919,  during  a  special 
conference  held  for  the  ratifica- 
tion of  his  nomination  to  the  office 
of  President  of  the  Church,  Heber 
J.  Grant  declared:  "I  shall  do  the 
best  I  can  to  fulfill  every  obligation 
that  shall  rest  upon  me  as  President 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  to  the  full  extent 
of  my  ability. 
"I  will  ask  no  man  to  be  more 
liberal  with  his  means  than  I  am  with 
mine  in  proportion  to  what  he  pos- 
sesses, for  the  advancement  of  God's 
kingdom. 
"I  will  ask  no  man  to  observe  the 
Word  of  Wisdom  any  more  closely 
than  I  will  observe  it. 
"I  will  ask  no  man  to  be  more 
conscientious  and  prompt  in  the 
payment  of  his  tithes  and  his  offer- 
ings than  I  will  be. 
'*!  will  ask  no  man  to  be  more 
ready  and  willing  to  come  early  and 
to  go  late  and  to  labor  with  full 
power  of  mind  and  body  than  I  will 
labor,  always  in  humility." 
In  these  words  is  found  the  key- 
note that  has  characterized  the  ad- 
ministration of  President  Grant  dur- 
ing more  than  two  decades— abso- 
lute obedience  to  the  word  and  will 
of  God. 
EARLY  LIFE  OF 
HEBER  J.  GRANT 
Our  seventh  president  of  the 
Church  was  born  on  November  22, 
1856,  at  Salt  Lake  City,  a  son  of 
Jedediah  M.  Grant  and  Rachel 
Ridgeway  Ivins.  Nine  days  follow- 
ing his  birth,  his  mother  became  a 
v^dow.  A  woman  of  strong  char- 
acter and  independence,  she  set  to 
work  to  make  a  living  for  herself 
and  child  rather  than  accept  char- 
itable aid.  These  characteristics,  as 
well  as  her  deep  religious  convictions, 
became  indelibly  impressed  on  the 
mind  of  the  youthful  Heber.  Many 
are  the  stories  told  by  President 
Grant  concerning  their  struggles 
against  adversity  and  poverty  in  his 
childhood  years. 
When  about  thirteen  years  of  age, 
he  became  impressed  by  the  story  of 
Nephi,  as  recorded  in  the  Book  oi 
Mormon.    The  accomplishments  of

LESSON  DEPARTMENT  127 
this  ancient  prophet-leader,  because  fesses    that    nothing    would    have 
of  his  obedience  to  the  commands  pleased  him  more  at  the  time  than 
of  the  Lord  and  the  admonitions  of  to  have  had  this  honor;  but  when 
his  father,  became  an  inspiration  to  he  asked  President  Woodruff  if  he 
Heber  J.  Grant.     He  decided  that  should  accept  it,  no  reply  was  forth- 
he  also  would  make  implicit  obedi-  coming.    Heber  }.  Grant  then  real- 
ence  to  the  Lord's  injunctions  and  ized  that  the  Church  needed  him 
his  mother's  teachings  the  guidepost  more  than  the  State,  and,  subordinat- 
of  his  life.     He  became  a  dutiful  ing  his  own  desires  to  his  determina- 
and  obedient  son,  and  at  an  early  tion  to  obey  his  calling  as  one  of 
age  was  actively  engaged  in  Church  the  Twelve,  asked  that  his  name  be 
service.    But  obedience  meant  more  withheld  from  the  convention, 
to  him  than  merely  doing  what  was 
advised  or  requested.    He  conceived  CHURCH  ACTIVITIES 
obedience  to  be  intimately  connect-  In  October,  1881,  when  not  quite 
ed  with  improvement  or  perfection,  twenty-four  years  of  age,  he  was  call- 
This  led  him  to  strive  for  improve-  ed  by  President  Taylor  to  take  up 
ment  in  whatever  he  was  assigned  his  residence  in  Tooele  and  preside 
to  do  or  in  whatever  he  undertook  over  that  stake.    Acceptance  of  this 
to  do.  At  an  early  stage  in  life,  he  call  meant  a  great  financial  sacrifice 
commenced  to  manifest  the  invinci-  to  the  young  business  man,  but  true 
ble  determination  that  has  charac-  to  the  precept  that  guided  him  in  his 
terized  his  thought  and  conduct  up  life,  he  devoted  himself  to  the  task 
to  the  present  day.  with  admirable  success.    Two  years 
PUBLIC  LEADERSHIP  '^^^^  ^^  ^^^  ^^"^^  *°  *^  apostleship. 
He  opened  and  presided  over  the 
At  an  early  age,  Heber  J.  Grant  Japanese  Mission  from  1901  to  1903, 
embarked  upon  a  career  of  business  and  later  presided  over  the  Euro- 
and  public  service  that  has  placed  pean  missions  from  1904  to  1906. 
him  in  the  front  ranks  of  state-build-  These  mission  experiences  occurred 
ers    in    the    Intermountain    West,  in  days  when  the  Church  was  ma- 
During  the  days  when  the  Church  ligned  and  persecuted  on  all  sides, 
was  staggering  under  a  great  burden  President  Grant  has  lived  to  be  re- 
of  debt,  intensified  by  nation-wide  ceived  with  ovations  from  the  press 
depressions,  he  was  sent  by  the  First  that  formerly  abused  him  and  the 
Presidency  on  financial  missions  to  Church  he  represented  as  a  mission- 
the  East  and  West  Coast  to  borrow  ary. 
large  sums  of  money  for  the  benefit  „  r^uTTDr^u  rMTPixm 
of  the  Church  and  its  xnembership.  J^es^DeOT  gSx  S 
So  promment  had  he  become  m  *  i-.a /rrxTTcrnr*  ATnTr-.xT 
the  pubHc  mind  through  his  busi-  ADMINISTRATION 
ness,   charitable  and   public-service  The  last  words  that  the  late  Presi- 
activities  in  the  last  decade  of  the  dent  Joseph  F.  Smith  spoke  were  to 
nineteenth  century,  that  it  appears  Heber  J.  Grant.      He   said,   'The 
certain  he  would  have  been  nom-  Lord  bless  you,  my  boy,  the  Lord 
inated  as  candidate  for  the  position  bless  you;  you  have  a  great  responsi- 
of  first  governor  of  Utah.    He  con-  bility.    Always  remember  that  this