[Vol28 | February 1941 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting Teacher's Individual Preparation (October, 1940, Conference Address) Ethel B. Andrew]
The  messages  this  year  were  writ-  Visiting  teachers  must  be  messen- 
ten  especially  for  Latter-day  Saint  gers   of   peace.    Many   hearts   and 
homes.     A  wise  teacher  will  know  homes  in  our  Church  are  saddened 
where  her  special  message  for  the  because  of  the  conflict  in  Europe, 
month  will  be  applicable.  Many  have  dear  ones  over  there.  Let 
A  friendly  visiting  teacher  is  effec-  us  be  understanding  and  sympathetic 
tive  in  gaining  new  members  for  the  as  we  go  into  the  homes  of  people 
Society.   She  should  study  the  homes  of   different  nationalities.     Let   us 
in  her  district  and  should  not  neglect  never  forget  that  no  matter  what 
to  visit  the  homes  of  new  neighbors,  country  was  the  homeland,  all  Latter- 
The  world  needs  friendliness,   and  day  Saints  are  entitled  to  the  same 
she  has  the  opportunity  to  establish  courtesies  and  the  same  Christ-like 
many  fine  friendships.  Many  women  service.    We  must  have  faith  in  our- 
find  their  lives  far  from  satisfactory,  selves  and  faith  in  each  other,  faith 
They  need  courage  to  meet  the  prob-  in  our  leaders  in  the  Church  and 
lems   of  every  day— to   meet  life's  Government,  and,  most  of  all,  faith 
tests.     Perhaps  something  has  hap-  in  our  Heavenly  Father, 
pened  to  take  the  sweetness  and  joy  The  Lord  has  been  kind  to  us. 
out  of  their  lives.    Visiting  teachers  Let  us  show  our  gratitude  by  the 
can,  by  their  friendly  visits  and  by  joy  we  take  in  our  work,  whatever  it 
encouraging  activity  in  Relief  Soci-  may  be,  and  the  happiness  we  can 
ety  work,  help  them  to  find  their  bring  to  others. 
PRAYER'S  SOLACE 
Jasmine  Romney  Edmunds 
It  is  the  hour  of  my  evening  prayer^ 
Alone  and  bowed  I  kneel  within  my  room. 
Deep  is  the  wish  and  great  the  gift  I  dare 
To  ask  of  Him  this  day  of  deepening  gloom. 
Released,  the  mighty  yearning  of  my  soul 
Pours  upward  from  the  pain  within  my  heart; 
With  rushing  words  it  trembles  towards  its  goal. 
Beseeching  Him  to  hear  and  help  impart: 
''Dear  Lord,  I  feel  the  strength  of  Thy  great  pow'r, 
I  trust  in  Thy  deep  love  and  mighty  skill; 
Oh,  hear  my  aching  plea  in  this  sad  hour, 
And  grant  it— if  it  be  Thy  will!" 
Words  cease.  In  peace  I  kneel  a  moment  there 
And  rise  refreshed,  assured  God  heard  my  prayer!