[Vol28 | February 1941 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Abraham Lincoln From the]
Q/nhute  cJo  Jxhraham  JLincoln 
The  great  infidel,  Robert  G.  Ingersoll,  paid  the  following  tribute  to 
Abraham  Lincoln: 
1 1\  KT^  know  now  that  he  not  only  stood  at  the  top,  but  that 
\/\/     he  occupied  the  center,  from  first  to  last,  and  that  he 
did  this  by  reason  of  his  intelligence,  his  humor,  his 
philosophy,  his  courage  and  his  patriotism. 
"In  passion's  storm  he  stood,  unmoved,  patient,  just  and 
candid.  In  his  brain  there  was  no  cloud,  and  in  his  heart  no 
hate.  He  longed  to  save  the  South  as  well  as  North,  to  see  the 
Nation  one  and  free. 
''He  lived  until  the  end  was  known. 
"He  lived  until  the  Confederacy  was  dead — until  Lee  sur- 
rendered, until  Davis  fled,  until  the  doors  of  Libby  Prison  were 
opened,  until  the  Republic  was  supreme. 
"He  lived  until  Lincoln  and  Liberty  were  united  forever. 
"He  lived  to  cross  the  desert — to  reach  the  palms  of  vic- 
tory— to  hear  the  murmured  music  of  the  welcome  waves. 
"He  lived  until  all  loyal  hearts  were  his — until  the  history 
of  his  deeds  made  music  in  the  souls  of  men — until  he  knew 
that  on  Columbia's  Calendar  of  worth  and  fame  his  name 
stood  first. 
"He  lived  until  there  remained  nothing  for  him  to  do  as 
great  as  he  had  done. 
"What  he  did  was  worth  living  for,  worth  dying  for. 
"He  lived  until  he  stood  in  the  midst  of  universal  Joy,  be- 
neath the  outstretched  wings  of  Peace — the  foremost  man  in 
all  the  world. 
"And  then  the  horror  came.  Night  fell  on  noon.  The  Sa- 
vior of  the  Republic,  the  breaker  of  chains,  the  liberator  of 
millions,  he  who  had  assured  freedom  to  the  free,'  was  dead. 
"Upon  his  brow  Fame  placed  the  immortal  wreath,  and 
for  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  the  world  a  Nafion  bowed 
and  wept. 
"The  memory  of  Lincoln  is  the  strongest,  tenderest  tie  that 
binds  all  hearts  together  now,  and  holds  all  States  beneath  a 
Nation's  flag." 
From  Complete  Works  of  Abraham  Lincoln,  edited  by  John  G.  Nicolay 
and  John  Hay,  which  in  turn  was  taken  from  the  Dresden  Edition  of  The 
Complete  Works  of  Robert  Ingersoll.

ABRAHAM  LINCOLN 
From  a  portrait  takers  from  life  by  Charles  A.  Barry  in  Springfield,  Illinois,  June,  1860

The 
Relief  Society  Magazine 
Vol.  28                                   FEBRUARY,  1941  No.  2 
Woman's  Centennial  Congress 
Julia.  A.  F.  Lund 
A  FITTING  climax  to  the  allowed  five  delegates,  chosen  by  a 
"woman's  movement''  of  the  special  delegate  committee.  In  or- 
last  century  was  the  Woman's  der  to  have  a  satisfactory  working 
Centennial  Congress,  held  at  the  number,  the  delegate  body  was  lim- 
Hotel  Commodore,  New  York  City,  ited  to  three  hundred.  All  the  great 
November  25,  26,  27.  This  historic  organizations  of  women  actively  co- 
event  was  twofold  in  its  purpose:  operated  with  the  Congress.  It  was 
first,  to  review  the  work  of  women  very  fitting  that  the  women  of  the 
and  to  do  honor  to  the  great  women  Church  be  represented  by  the  heads 
of  the  past;  second,  to  provide  an  of  two  of  their  organizations— Presi- 
opportunity  for  women  to  ''take  dent  Amy  Brown  Lyman  for  the 
stock  of  themselves";  to  face  the  Relief  Society,  who  was  also  a  dele- 
challenge  to  women  of  the  world  gate  from  the  National  Council  of 
of  today;  to  reexamine  the  role  of  Women  of  the  United  States,  and 
women,  their  goals  and  the  means  President  Lucy  Grant  Cannon  for 
which  they  wish  to  use  to  achieve  the  Young  Women's  Mutual  Im- 
these  goals.  Women  realize  that  provement  Association.  Other  dele- 
in  every  great  crisis  of  history  they  gates  from  Utah  were  Mrs.  Burton 
have  been  a  force  in  the  thought  W.  Musser,  Mrs.  Arthur  E.  Graham, 
and  action  growing  out  of  the  crisis.  Mrs.  E.  M.  Bagley,  Mrs.  Julia  A.  F. 
Never  before  has  the  responsibility  Lund,  and  Mrs.  E.  O.  Leatherwood. 
been  so  great  and  the  problems  so  There  were  many  sub-committees 
momentous  as  at  the  present  time.  responsible  for  working  out  the  de- 
Long  and  careful  preparation  was  tails.  The  two  main  committees 
given  to  the  Congress.  The  advice  were  the  Woman's  National  Com- 
of  experts  in  the  various  fields  was  mittee  with  Carrie  Chapman  Catt 
sought,  and  women  from  all  parts  of  as  chairman,  and  the  Men's  Com- 
the  world  were  invited  to  relate  their  mittee  headed  by  Nicholas  Murray 
experiences.  Representatives  of  all  Butler.  The  following  statement  was 
professions,  walks  and  phases  of  life  made  by  Doctor  Butler:  "Surely 
were  listed  among  the  sponsors.  In  the  meetings  of  this  Woman's  Cen- 
addition  to  the  women  of  distin-  tennial  Congress  will  be  followed 
guished  service  and  the  foreign  with  great  interest  throughout  the 
guests,  each  state  in  the  Union  was  country.    It  is  to  remind  us  that  it
