Germs and Disease Dr. Martin P. Henderson 3^3
======================================================================

Germs and Disease. Dr. Martin P. Henderson, Professor of Biology, B. Y. University, Provo. (This takes place of Guide Work for July.) The existence of a world of microscopic life with its wonderful manifestations, was but vaguely suggested at the beginning of the Nineteenth century. Fermentations and decay were not understood. Disease was a mystery. Epidemics came and went without any apparent cause. Decaying organic matter had been observed to swarm with bacteria, but these were supposed to arise spontaneously as a product of the dead cells, and to take no part in causing the decay. Similar structures had been seen in the tartar from the teeth, but it was not supposed that these tmy organisms normally grow and reproduce in the human mouth. About the middle of the century, however, the question of the origin of these lowly forms engaged the attention and genius of the leaders in the fields of chemistry and medicine, and out of their controversies and experiments came a recognition of three fundamental facts: first, that these simple organisms do not arise de novo, from the air or from any other substance either organic or inorganic, but like all other living things must have their origin in antecedent parental forms; second, that fermentation, putrefaction and decay are results of the life activities of these forms; and third, that they are causative agents in diseases of plants and animals. Despite this information, which has been current for almost sixty years, and in the face of the certainty that a majority of our common contagious diseases are caused by germs, and that others on very good evidence are believed to be thus caused, the idea.seems to prevail in the popular mind that an epidemic of disease, such as that of the past season, may arise spontaneously out of the air or have its origin in some other intangible manner. The disease germ is thought of as a mysterious something which as mysteriously transports itself from one person to another without the intervention of any material mediator. A germ is either a minute plant or animal. It differs from the higher forms of life primarily in its size and.simpler organization. Usually it is a single cell, so small that hundreds or even thousands of them would have to be grouped together to form a mass of sufficient size to be visible. Germs are subject to the same laws of the universe and dependent upon the.same principles of life as are higher organisms. Their need for food 364 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. is no less imperativ,e and their necessity for right conditions of temperature and moisture is just as real. They take food, grow and reproduce their kind. What constitutes them disease germs is the power which they have acquired to operate upon and within the human body and to draw from it the nutrients requisite for a complete cycle of life. They may be simple saprophytes such as the colon bacillus, which is always present but does not cause.specific disease, active parasites which are able to wrest their nourishment from the living cells, or less virulent forms such as the pneumonia germs which attack the host only when he is weakened from some other cause. Germs may attack and destroy living tissues, as in the case of diphtheria bacteria in the lining of the throat, or the typhoid bacillus in the walls of the intestinal tract; they may remain localized as to place of development but in their operations produce poisons which are distributed by the blood toall parts of the body, as in diphtheria and lockjaw; or they may get into the blood stream and be carried to various parts of the body, as in.syphilis and typhoid fever. Contagious germs develop normally only in connection with the body or its immediate wastes. When a person "catches" an infectious disease it means simply that the germ causing it has been transferred from an infected individual to a vulnerable portion of his own body, and finding there requisite environmetal conditions, has established itself and is continuing its natural processes of growth and reproduction. The germ is not at fault any more than the weed is at fault in growing in the choicest spot of the garden. It is merely satisfying the greatest demand of its existence ? the perpetuation of its kind. The transfer of germs from one individual to another takes place in a variety of ways all of which might be avoided, and which would no doubt be avoided, were the true.significance of germs realized. But their small size makes them very difficult to.study and entirely inaccessible, so far as the unaided senses of man are concerned. If it were possible to see them as they are in their normal places of growth, many of the practices of the present would be substituted by more sanitary ones, and many thoughtless acts would be discontinued. Suppose for example it were possible to see and recognize the myriads of living forms that swarm on the lips and in the mouth of a person infected with influenza, diphtheria, "colds" or tuberculosis, or suppose the individual could thus see himself. What wcuLi bt the possibilities of quarantine? What would become of the habit of promiscuous kissing? Suppose such an infected individual could.see these same forms swimming in the droplets of saliva as they issue in clouds from his mouth and bespatter his friends whenever he sneezes or coughs. Would he be guilty of performing these acts except behind his handkerchief or some other adequate GERMS AND DISEASE. 365 screen? Imagine the possibilities, could a tuberculous individual see that the sputum from his mouth is filled with a writhing mass of living forms, the germs of this terrible disease. Would he be willing to take the risk of expectorating indiscriminately about him, either in private or public places, or would such a thing be at all permitted? Assume the results, were it possible for us all to really, see the various forms of life which adhere to our hands, and recognize among them those that produce typhoid fever, diphtheria, tuberculosis or syphilis. Would the deplorable "hand to mouth" habit be continued? Would careless handling of articles touched by others particularly ihose infected witli contagious diseases, continue? Suppose the possibility of seeing the millions of typhoid germs with their numcious whip-like swimming appendages, asthey writhe and swarm in the feces of a typhoid patient, of watching these same germs as they are washed by the rains into the well or other water supply, and finally as they would appear in the glass of clear cold water on the table. Or imagine watching them taken up by the thousands on the body and feet of a fly and carried direct to the nearest kitchen where they are deposited on baby's "comfort," on his hands, on his lips, on the dishes, on various articles of food and finally washed ofif the insect by a bath in the milk. Would human excrement be left exposed? Would open privies be maintained? Would decaying or putrefying filth of any sort be permitted to encumber the premises? These are the things that are happening around us every day, but due to the natural limitations of vision, the majority of us do not see them except through the eyes of others. Shall we for that reason reject them? The day of preventive medicine is rapidly approaching. Will we hinder its approach by dogmatic persistence in theories and traditions of the past, or shall we rather hasten its coming by an intelligent acceptance and application of the truth as it is now known? The