Rambling Reminiscences of Margaret Gay Judd Clawson
======================================================================

Rambling Reminiscencesof Marga ret Gay Judd Clawson. (Continued from page 262.) I have heard mother tell a little incident about the Prophet: Soon after we went to Nauvoo, she had occasion to do a little shopping, and on her way to the store, she passed the Mansion House. The Prophet was standing on the lawn conversing quite earnestly with several very elegant Gentile gentlemen. As she passed along, very naturally she looked at the Prophet. She knew him, but he did not know her. All at once he reached his arm over the fence, grasped her by the hand, and gave her a hearty shake. He did not hesitate in his conversation with the gentlemen but kept right on talking, and mother passed on. I need not say she was delighted. I am sure he divined what a noble-spirited woman she was. When our house was furnished and we moved in, my parents were delighted. It was their own home, and built in the city of the Saints, where they expected to live the rest of their days. Our family consisted of father, mother, brother Riley, sister Phebe, and myself, with grandfather and grandmother Judd, who lived with us part of the time. My grandparents were most welcome in our home, where mother and grandmother Judd were always on the best of terms. Grandmother said: "I would rather live with Teresa than any one I ever knew." Mother v/as not like many daughters-in-law, who look upon their mothers-in-law as their natural enemies, ,so their association was always most harmonious. Iwas very fond of my grandmother Judd. I have only a faint recollection of my grandmother Hastings, as I never saw her after I was six years old, but I have heard father say that she was a very kind, liberal-hearted woman. I think it was about in 1842 or '43 that the mob began again to harass the Saints very frequently, and we had a repetition of the old exciting times. It was generally known when the mobs were prowling around outside of Nauvoo. The brethren were advised to always be in readiness to meet them and to protect their homes and families. One morning I saw something more than usual going on at one of our neighbor's, an English family by the name of Thompson, so I ran over to see what it was. Well, the word had been brought in that the mob was coming, and very near, and "Little Thompson" (he was a very small man) with others had 318 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. been called to the defense. His wife was hurrying to get her protector ready to go. I was filled with patriotism when I saw him staggering off under the weight of his lunch and gun. After bidding him good-bye, she stood there and called after him, as long as she could see him, these encouraging words: "Now Thompson, stick to thy post and don't thee flinch." No doubt, they stimulated him to greater deeds of valor; but the expected did not happen. It was merely a false alarm and the mob was not there, and Thompson came home covered with glory and as brave as a lion, bragging what he would have done if the mob had been there, much to the admiration of his wife and myself. Times were very hard and provisions were scarce. Father JOSEPH SMITH'S HOUSE IN NAUVOO. it was unfinished at his death, and completed by Mr. Biddamon who married the widow of the Prophet. was an industrious, hard-working man and could work at two trades, but it seemed almost impossible for him to get the right kind of pay for his work, so as to provide the necessaries of life for his family, and for this reason he went back to La Harpe to work. He used to send us flour, meat, etc. Transportation was not as easy in those days as it is now, and father had to watch his chance for sending us provisions, and if he missed we ran short. Father often walked the twenty-five miles home to see his family. He was a splendid walker. He told us once when he came home of a mad dog overtaking him. The dog was a MARGARET GAY JUDD CLAW SON. 319 terrible sight ? his eyes were blood red, his tongue hanging out, and he was frothing at the mouth. Father was quite pleased when he passed by without a salute. In a very short time a lot of men and boys with clubs and guns came running after the dog. They said he had bitten a boy and several animals. In a little while father heard them yelling and heard the shots from the guns, so he supposed they had killed the dog. ' At one time, that I remember, father had not had an opportunity of sending us any provisions for some time, and we got up one morning to find ourselves without anything in the house to eat, except some shelled corn. There were five of us at that time ? mother, grandmother, Brother Riley, Sister Phebe and myself. What were we to do? We had heard of a woman who had a hand-mill for grinding. She lived about a mile from us, and as our only chance for food was to get the corn ground, mother said: "Children, do you think you could take some and grind it? and when you come back I will make a nice johnny cake for our breakfast." Of course we could; so brother and I started out in high spirits, with all the corn we could carry, much impressed and feeling our importance in being allowed to help to support the family. Well, when we got to the neighbor's, she took us into the back yard and showed us the mill, telling us that we would have to pay her toll for the use of it. We had heard that before. We started in real brisk ? it didn't seem so very hard. We talked and laughed and encouraged each other. The meal seemed to run out of the hopper quite fast, and we thought mother would be surprised to see us home so soon with such a lot of meal. Well, when we had got nearly half of the corn ground that horrid woman came out and took it all in for her share. Oh, didn't our hearts sink! And didn't that mill get awfully hard to turn; and then the handle slipped off and struck me on the finger-nail and hurt me dreadfully. Then it was Riley's turn to grind, so I could stop and cry awhile, but it was not long before the handle slipped off again, and knocked his finger nail nearly off. Poor fellow, how he did cry, and how the blood ran. He always got the worst of every hurt. I went into the house and asked the woman for a rag to put around his bleeding finger, but she would not take the trouble to give me one, saying, "It won't hurt very long." So I tore a piece off my apron and wrapped his finger up. Now, it was my turn to finish grinding the corn. I could not expect Riley to work any longer with his aching finger. As everything must have an end, our grist was ground at last, and we started home, "wiser but sadder children." When we came in sight of home there was mother watching for us, and when she 320 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. saw our bunged-up eyes and sore fingers, she could scarcely restrain her tears. I don't think she expressed herself half as emphatically as she felt, for her eyes were unusually bright, and her cheeks were very red. If mother had met that woman then, there would have been quite a flow of eloquence, I think. In a very short time mother had the meal sifted and the corn bread in the spider baking, and when it was done, oh, what a delicious breakfast. No sweeter morsel was ever set before a king than that hard earned johnny cake was to us. As good luck would have it, father sent us some provisions from La Harpe that very day. With all our poverty and hardships, I never heard mother speak one word of complaint, she was so thankful to be with the Saints and hear the teachings of the prophet! Father planted us a garden that spring. The vegetables grew very fast, but the weeds grew faster, and mother made Riley and me do the weeding (or some of it). We used to say if it were only shady, and we could sit down, it wouldn't be so hard, but to go right out in the hot sun, and stoop over to pull the weeds, we thought it awfully cruel of mother to have us do it. She often used to show us how to do it. It seemed so easy for her. Why, she could pull more weeds in five minutes than we could in half an hour, and still she insisted on us doing it. Oh, the hardships of childhood! I think it was the latter part of 1843 that my uncle and grandfather went to Springfield, 111., and from there they kept writing to father, telling of what good times they had found and that coopers were getting higher wages than in any other trade, and if he would come there for awhile, he could get a good start, and would not have to live from hand to mouth, as he was then doing. Although father was hard-working and industrious, he did not seem to get ahead at all, so after awhile he decided to go. Mother was very loth to leave Nauvoo and hoped it would be for only a short time. There was quite a little branch of the Church in Springfield. In the spring of 1844, we went to Springfield. We had not been there more than two or three months when we got the news of the prophet's death. Mother would not believe it, saying it was a false report, but when it was confirmed, our house was a house of mourning, and I don't think mother could have felt worse if it had been one of her own family. Father got all the work he could do at fair wages, but with a family to support, clothe, houserent and other expenses to pay, he did not get rich very fast. Then there was another child added to our home. On New Year's day, 1845, Brother George came, and that made us six in family. My second great grief of childhood came on the fourth of October, 1844, when my dearly loved grandmother Judd left us MARGARET GAY JUDD CLAWSON. 321 EXTERIOR, CARTHAGE JAIL. for a better world. She was so pleasant and kind to all! Mother loved her as if she were her own mother. I shall never forget how dreadfully I felt! It seemed the sun would never shine again. I was then thirteen and could fully realize our great loss. I could not eat, and slept very little until mother became worried about me, but youth and time obliterate sorrow. Grandmother was sick about two weeks and said from the beginning that she did not want to get well again. After she was in her cofifin. one of my young cousins came to look at her. As soon as he saw her he said: "Oh, grandma is laughing," and if that beautiful smile on her face was an indication of her happiness, it was indeed supreme. After the Saints left Nauvoo. my parents redoubled their exertions to get an outfit to go to the Rocky Mountains. In the meantime, father had one or two quite sick spells which put him back considerably. How well I remember what a hard time he had breaking in the animals to draw the wagon. There were six cows and two oxen. The oxen were well broken and quite sedate, but the cows were wild and unruly. He would get help to yoke them up, and then would start to drive them. All at once, they would run ofif in an opposite direction to where he wanted them to go, or would run around the back of the wagon, and get all tangled up. Well, this went on for days and days, and while father was breaking the cattle, mother was praying. She told me afterwards that many nights when we were in bed asleep that she would go out into the orchard at the back of our house, and there pour out her soul in prayer, asking the Lord to open the 322 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. way for us to go with the Saints. She was williixgto share their privations for the sake of being with them. Another source of anxiety to mother was that I was now in my 'teens, at the romantic age of seventeen, and mother, knowing the susceptibility of the human heart, was afraid that some young man might persuade me to think more of him than I did of her, and induce me to remain in the east. She could not live away from the Church, and she could not leave a child behind. So my parents said we must not stay at Springfield any longer. After weeks of hard work, father had the cows broken so that he could drive them, and on the ninth day of May, 1849, my brother Riley's sixteenth birthday, we said good-bye to our friends and relatives, got into our wagon, and started on our long, eventful journey. Oh, how mother's countenance beamed with joy! ROOM IN CARTHAGE JAIL WHERE THE