In Memory of the Martyrdom
======================================================================

MARTYRDOM OCCURRED. What did she care for hardships, if she could only reach the goal? I will relate one of many little romances. The night before we left, my true lover, Henry Ridgley, came to bid me farewell, and under our trysting tree (a big tree close by) we each vowed eternal constancy ? for four years, at least. At the end of that time, he would be of age, and then he would come to claim me for his own, even if I was at the end of the earth. Well, he did come to see me, but it was forty years after instead of four years. He had a wife and three children. I had a husband and was the mother of thirteen children. The romance of youth was gone ? MARGARET GAY JUDD CLAW SON. 323 the reality was here. How we did talk of the long past, and laugh at each other's inconstancy. After a pleasant two weeks' visit with us, he returned to Springfield, and in five years after I received aletter from his wife, telling me of his death. On our first night after starting on our journey, we camped on the prairie. Father unyoked the cattle, and turned them out to feed on the grass, looking after them carefully to keep them from straying away. We had packed up enough fuel to make a good fire, and mother was getting supper, when all at once there came a most terrific thunder storm. The rain poured down in torrents, and we were all drenched, although we got into the wagon as soon as we could. The wind blew the rain with such force that the wagon was very little protection. Of course, the fire was put out. and it was cold comfort for supper that night. However, the next morning the sun shone brightly, everything got dry, and we jogged on our journey. I don't remember how long we were in reaching Council BlulTs, but I do remember that we camped there one month waiting for companies to be made up. They had to be organized for protection against the Indians. Oh, the monotony of camp life when we were not traveling. How delighted we all were when we started on our journey for good. Everything was bright and beautiful. I was young and healthy. All was "color de rose" for me. The responsibilities, anxieties and cares rested on my parents. In traveling as we did, one day was very like another. After jogging along all day we camped at night. The men took care of the cattle, while the women got supper. After that was over the young folks generally made a bon-fire and sat around it, talked, told stories, sung songs, etc. There were several nice young men in our company, which made it interesting for the girls. On the Fourth of July we camped for the day, not entirely to celebrate, but to wash and do mending and various other things that were necessary. We camped in a pretty place near a creek. I was to wash, with Phebe's help. She was only twelve, but very energetic. We selected a place, quite secluded, close to the creek where we could have plenty of water. Well, we were making suds, when a dapper young gentleman from New York, a nephew of our captain, who was on his way to California, discovered us and brought a bottle of wine and a large piece of delicious fruit cake which was made to celebrate the Fourth on the plains. It was a rather embarassing position to accept this compliment in the midst of soiled linen and soap suds, and I had not been introduced to him before. However, I accepted the cake and wine with great patriotism, and from that time on he often called at our wagon ? that is, our wagon yard. Everyone was supposed to own all the land that was occupied by ox yokes, camp, 324 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. kettles, and everything that goes to make an outfit for traveling, so when any of the young folks called, I was as much at home sitting on an ox yoke as if I were sitting in an easy chair in a parlor. Such is life on the plains. There were several very nice young men in our company, especially one. He used to say such lovely things to me ? told me that I was beautiful and intelligent, and even went so far as to say that I was amiable, something I had never been accused of before. Said I was the only woman that he ever loved, and that we were just suited to each other. I began to believe him, and when he proposed, what could I say but yes. Well, the course of true love did run smooth, at least, until we got into the valley. There we had the usual lover's quarrel, but not the usual making up. In a short time, he. let me know that another girl appreciated him, if I did not. He married one of the girls of our company, whose ignorance he had ridiculed to me many times while on our journey. Such is the constancy of man! I understood she made him a good wife, but stood in great awe of him, the man who had honored her so highly. The fates sometimes do interfere with our plans, all for our best good. My brother drove an ox team across the plains for a widow and her little girl. The little girl was very sweet and amiable, the mother rather peculiar. He said that she would ask more questions in a day than ten men could answer in a week. He was a born joker, and could no more help joking than he could help breathing. He could never tell her anything so absurd or ridiculous but what she believed it. He got so tired of her questions, such as, "Riley, I wonder how far we have traveled today, and I wonder how far we will travel tomorrow," "I wonder if we will get to water," "I wonder if we will see Indians, and I wonder what they will do," "Will they be friendly or savage?" The "wondering" got so monotonous Riley could hardly stand it. At last he had his revenge, when we came in sight of Chimney Rock. (Anybody who has crossed the plains either by wagon or rail will remember seeing this landmark). It is very tall and shaped something like a smokestack, and probably centuries old. At the rate we traveled it could be seen several days before we reached it. She began her speculations about the rock, and he told her in a most confidential way that as soon as we got to it, he was going to push it down; that he was sick and tired of hearing so much about Chimney Rock, and that it had stood there long enough anyway. As soon as he got his hands on it, over it would go. Well, she begged and implored him to let it stand, that other emigrants might see it who came after us., but he was obdurate. She then threatened to tell "Brother Brigham" when she got to the Valley. That was always her last resort. He MARGARET GAY JUDD CLAIVSON. 325 CHIMNEY ROCK, WYOMING. kept her anxiety at fever heat for two days until we were within about a half mile of it. He then gave in to her pleadings, and said he would let it stand. She' was so delighted that she gave him an extra good dinner and supper that day. He little intended that his last joke with her should turn out as it did. By the way of amusement, he had been telling her before we came to the last canyon, Emigration, that her wagon was going to tip over, in fact, he knew it would. She said that if it did she would tell "Brother Brigham." Sure enough it did tip clear over down the hill, and lit on the bows. It was a very hard canyon for men to drive down, and Riley was awfully surprised. He was only a boy and was terribly frightened. No one worked harder than he did to get it righted. With the help of the men in camp, he got it up into the road, which was very sideling. The wagon looked very dilapidated, with the bows all smashed down, but very little damage was done to the contents, and as it was our last day before entering the valley, the widow managed very or not.well. Riley never heard whether she told "Brother Brigham" After jogging along several hundred miles without incident, the monotony was finally broken by our cattle stampeding. It seemed the longer we went and the harder the cattle worked, the easier they became frightened. The one that terrified me the most was the night stampede. We had had one or two before in the daytime, so the cattle were prepared for another at any moment. Our company was coun- 326 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. < seled to corral their animals every night, perhaps on account of the Indians, or it might have been because of the large herds of buffalo that we saw daily. At night the cattle were always turned out to feed for a while. They were watched and herded, then brought into the corral for the night. The corral was made with wagons formed in a large circle, with the wheels touching each other, with one opening left to drive them in, then log chains were put across the opening, so that the enclosure was perfectly secure. We were in a buffalo country. We had heard what a terrible thing their stampedes were, and that not long before a large herd had started on their mad run, and when those in front came to a high bluff of the Platte River, they dashed in and made a bridge for the last ones, who trampled to death and drowned their companions. One night, about two o'clock, our whole camp were peacefully sleeping, when all at once there came an awful sound of tramping and bellowing. The ground shook, our wagon trembled and rocked. It flashed through my mind in a moment that a herd of buffalo was stampeding, and that we would all be trampled to death, so I covered up my head and prepared to die. Mother soon called out to Phebe and myself; as there was no sound from our little bed-room (the front end of the wagon), I gave a smothered answer from under the bed clothes that I was alive. All at once there was another crashing noise. It was our own cattle, broken out of the corral. Something had frightened them, and then they started on their wild, mad run. They ran around and around inside, and then broke through the log-chains. Nothing could stay them, and they scattered over the country for miles and miles. It took our men days and days to gather them back again, and a sorry looking lot they were, those that were left, for some died from exhaustion, and others were killed. One pair of the captain's cows had run up a very steep hill, fallen backwards and broken their necks ? which made one pair less to pull his wagon and one pair less to milk. (Oh, the delicious milk! What a luxury on the plains.) In that stampede there were two or three men hurt ? one quite badly. He was a gold digger going to California, who had overtaken us and was traveling with our company awhile. The California emigrants traveled much faster than the "Mormon" emigrants. In trying to stop the cattle this emigrant was knocked down and trampled on, and his groans were piteous. I did not see the injured man again until one day the next winter, when he called on us in the Valley. During all the time he was there he was down on his knees. He could stand up, but could not sit down. I never heard from him again after he left for the gold mines. MARGARET GAY JUDD CLAW SON. 327 Old cattle-men say that tame, domestic horned cattle are the craziest and wildest of all animals in a stampede. It is very singular, but they seem to start all at once, just as if a bolt had struck every one at the same instant. {To be continued.)