[Vol5 | June 1918 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: in Israel Mothers in Israel]

Amen." Mothers in Israel. MRS. ANN HYER BUDGE AND FAMILY. We are happy to present to our readers as the frontispiece of this number the remarkable family of a remarkable mother. We doubt whether there is such a family at present anywhere on the earth, a family of fifteen such healthy, handsome, gifted and thorough Latter-day Saints as is presented in this picture. The mother looks but little older than her children, while the children themselves are noble examples of the value of the applied principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Nor would we forget or minimize the great factor found in the splendid fatherhood of President William Budge, who gave life and being to this choice group of sons and daughters. Presi- ;dent Budge is one of the great pioneers of this Church. He was an early settler in Bear Lake valley in Idaho. When that stake was organized in 1877, he was made president, which position he retained until he was called to Logan, on the death of President Mariner W. Merrill, to act as President of the Logan temple, which position he still occupies. Himself a remarkable man, not the least of his executive gifts lies in the strict yet kindly methods which he set in operation for the upbringing of his own numerous and splendid family. The modest yet illuminating sketch received concerning the life and labors of this great mother in Israel follows. We commend the prayerful study thereof to all young mothers in Israel who would prepare themselves to become the righteous mothers of the righteous sons of men: ANN HYER BUDGE. Among the large families to be found in the "Mormon" Church is the family of Mrs. Ann Hyer Budge of Logan, Utah, whose parents. Christian and Caroline Hyer came from Norway and were numbered among the first to cross the plains. Mrs. Budge was born in Bountiful, January 25, 1853, and when but seven years of age she moved with her parents to Richmond, Utah. She was early taught to help her mother with the housework, as well as'to assist her father in the fields, especially during hay time and harvest. During the grasshopper times, Mrs. Budge and her sister were assigned the task of driving the hoppers from the grain field by the use of a long rope which they stretched out ami dragged over the growing grain. The grasshoppers were 
 thus driven to a pile of straw which was afterwards set on fire and in this way baskets of the.destroyers were destroyed. Mrs. Bndge had very Httle opportunity to gain an education, as the pioneer facilities for instructions made advanced schooling almost out of the question. In January, 1868. Ann Hyer met William whom she married the following April 4. and immediately afterwards moved to Providence, Utah, where she did anything and everything she could to assist in the making of a livelihood for her growing family. In the autumn of 1870, President William Budge was called by President Brigham Young to take his families and move to Bear Lake, Idaho, there to assume charge of the Church affairs in that section. Mrs. Budge brought fifteen children into the world — eight boys and seven girls — and has been blessed in that she was successful in rearing all of them. At the time this photograph was taken, the boys averaged a weight of 201 pounds, and the girls averaged 162 pounds, making an actual weight of 2,742 pounds of her offspring. Besides caring for all of these children Mrs. Budge has devoted more or less of her time to Relief Society work, as an active teacher; and she is always willing to assist in any material way required. Today she is counted as one of the strongest and healthiest women in the country. It might well be argued from this sterling example that rearing children promotes vitality and youth in the mother, while not impairing health or happiness in the children as some people are wont to assert. We are exceedingly proud of this exhibit and present the same to our readers and to the world as a family in Israel. SKETCH OF DAVID P. KIMBALL. Elder Solomon F. Kimball has put time and much loving endeavor into an interesting sketch of his able and forceful brother David. The pages glow with pioneer items and word pictures. Not the least interesting portions of the book are those intimate, thrilling chapters which reveal some vital experiences of the quaint and remarkable author himself. We cordially recommend itto our friends and readers.