[Vol5 | June 1918 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Conservation Pointers]

Conservation Pointers. The United States Department of Agriculture, endorsed by the Food Administrator, has just launched a new Food Conservation campaign. The object of this campaign is to stimulate the use of a valuable food made from a by-product of the butter industry. Over forty per cent of our entire milk production is made into butter. When we take 100 pounds of milk for butter, we get 4 pounds of butter. 12 pounds of buttermilk, and 84 pounds of skim milk. This skim milk is now largely fed to farm animals or wasted. The department has found cases where millions of pounds of skim milk was run into sewers from creameries. This skim milk is too valuable a food to be either fed entirely to farm animals, or wasted. If we feed 100 pounds of skim milk to a hog we get in return about 7 pounds of pork. If we make 100 pounds of skim milk into cottage cheese, we get 15 pounds of cottage cheese, which cheese, pound per pound, is the equivalent of lean meat in food value. It contains 25 times more lime than meat, a most valuable bone building material absolutely necessary for young children. It contains nine times more lime than a dozen eggs. It is as efficient a muscle builder as meat or eggs, and a more efificient muscle builder than beans or cereals. We have asked our farmers to produce more food of every kind. Here is a food that we have already produced. To have it. we do not need to plow another acre of ground, or plant another seed, or invest another dollar — it's here — it costs half as much, as meat, and may often replace meat in the diet very advantageously, provided the system can easily digest milk, and its by-products. Shall we use it? r.AKED BREAD AND CHEESE. 4 medium slices of bread. 1 cup of cottage cheese. 1 whole egg. Ya teaspoon soda. 1 ^%% yolk or an egg white. Onion juice. 2 cups' of milk. Parsley and pimento, or picy^, teaspoon salt. alili or chili sauce, nuts if deCayenne pepper, sired. Butter the bread and cut the slices in squares or diamonds. Place a layer, buttered side down, on the bottom of a large shallow buttered baking dish. Dissolve the soda in a little of the milk and with it mix the cheese to a soft cream. Add parsley and pimento or sauce if desired. Spread a thick layer of the cheese 
 lig-htly over the bread, and cover with the rest of the bread, buttered side up. Beat the eggs well, mix them with the milk and seasonings, and pour them over the bread. Bake in a slow oven till a knife thrust in to the custard comes out clean. If the milk is warmed and added gradually to the beaten egg, and the baking dish in set in a pan of hot water, the custard cooks more quickly and is less likely to curdle through becoming overheated. Variations. Corn muffins, barley or oatmeal bread may be used instead of white bread. This dish may be made into a hearty sweet pudding by omitting the onion juice and other seasonings and substituting two to three tablespoons of sugar or an equivalent sugar substitute, and raisins or dates, nutmeg or cinnamon, with other spices if desired. Suggested supper or luncheon menu. Baked bread and cheese, green salad or crisp fresh vegetable, toasted corn muffins, fresh or canned fruit. For a heartier meal, add baked or hashed brown potatoes. COTTAGE CHEESE LOAF (oNe). 1 cup cooked rice (dry and 1 tablespoon savory fat or dripflaky), pings. 1 cup cottage cheese. ^4 teaspoon,soda. V2 cup ground peanuts. 1 cup strained tomato. 1 tablespoon chopped onion. 1 cup l)read crumbs (or more). Mix well ami form into a roll. Brush over with melted butter and bake in a moderate oven 25 minutes or until hot. Serve with a medium white sauce to which may be added two tablespoons minced pimento. fried bread with cottage cheese. Spread slices of stale bread thickly with cottage cheese, with which pimentos, nut meats, or some marmalade or jelly has been blended. Dip in a mixture of egg and milk, and fry quickly in butter or other fat. Variation. The egg and milk may be omitted, and the sandwich may be fried b'ghtly in a very small amount of bacon fat. creamed potatoes with cottage cheese. Re-heat cold diced or sliced potatoes in medium white sauce with cottage cheese. For the rule see preceding pages. The best seasoning for this sauce is slice of onion added to the milk while heat-ng and chopped parsley and pimentos; Vs cup of potatoes and y^ cup of the sauce make a generous serving. Boiled new potatoes may be served whole with this sauce. CONSERVATION POINTERS. 
 1 cup of whey. Yi cup of sugar, or ^ cup.of corn syrup. Mix whey and sugar and boil the mixture till it is of the consistency of strained honey. This syrup will keep indefinitely, if properly bottled, and is delicious for spreading on waffles or pancakes. Used a little thinner it makes an excellent pudding sauce. Since it requires no thickening, it is the easiest possible sauce to make. COTTAGE CHEESE OMELET. 2 eggs. 1 tablespoon chopped pimentos. "4 teaspoon salt. ? tablespoons milk. 3 rounded tablespoons cottage -^ teaspoon soda. cheese. Beat the yolks and whites of the eggs separately. Add to the yolks the salt, the milk and the cheese with which has been blended the pimento. Finally fold in the stiffly beaten whites; pour into frying pan in which has been melted about ^ tablespoon fat. Cook the omelet slowly until the q^^ has set, place in the oven for a few moments to finish cooking, then fold over in the center. Garnish \\\i\\ parsley. Other seasonings may be used, such as chopped parsley, green pepper or minced ham. Proportions. For each egg, use 1 tablespoon milk, ^ teaspoon salt, plenty of pepper, rounding tablespoon cottage cheese, pinch of baking soda, fat to grease pan. Method. Mix eggs, seasonings and 1 tablespoon of milk for.each eg"g. Scramble eggs as usual in greased pan till entirely cooked. Neutralize acxl in cheese with soda, and stir lightly into tgg. Variations. Parsley and pimento or chives, added to tgg. Suggested supper or luncheon menu. Scramble eggs with cottage cheese; baked potatoes; dandelion or lettuce salad, or sliced tomatoes; barley mufifins; fruit sauce. RELIEF SOCIETY PIN. Because of an increase in the price of material, the jewelers handling the Relief Society pin report that it will be necessary in the future to charge $3.25 for the solid gold pin, and $1.2S for the gold filled pin.