IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED, Nov. 4th, 1878, in Tooele, Mrs. Mary,
the beloved wife of Elder Robert Meikle-john,
in the 67th year of her age.
	Deceased was born April 14th, 1812, in Dum-
bartonshire, Scotland. She embraced the
Gospel in her native land in 1841, and emigrat-
ed to Utah in 1855. The loss occasioned by the 
death of the highly esteemed Sister Meikle-
john is now and long will be deeply felt. In
her, her husband has lost a loving companion
and wise counselor—her children, a kind and
affectionate monitor; in her, the poor have lost
a friend—the sick a physician—the erring a
guide—and all those who are earnestly labor-
ing to promote the interests of Zion an efficient
co-worker.
	Her Children, now left to mourn her loss, are
living evidences of her wisdom and faithful-
ness as a mother of children; and as a "mother
in Israel," many, very many testify of her un-
tiring diligence and self-sacrificing devotion to
the labors and responsibilities of that important
position.
	In April, 1870, she was elected President of
the Relief Society of Tooele Wards; and in
Sept., 1878, was elected President of the Relief
Society Stake of Zion for Tooele County. With
characteristic, unassuming modesty, this high
calling she cheerfully accepted, and had just
entered upon its duties when suddenly she
was called to a higher sphere. She "fought
the good fight and kept the faith".
	Prudent and wise in every move,
		In household duties and abroad—
	Prompt to each call of trust and love—
		True to her cov'nants with her God.

[Column 2]

	Words are too weak: her life-prints tell
		How firm and faithful to the end;
	She fill'd her sphere: you fill'd it well,
		Beloved Mother, Wife and Friend!
			E. R. SNOW.
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 19, 1878.
	Died, in Salt Lake City, November 12, Mrs
Adelaide F. Smith, after an illness of two
weeks from the effects of blood poisoning occa-
sioned by getting a piece of glass into her
hand.
	She was the daughter of Henry and Ann
Fowles, and was born September 8th, 1831, at
Bedford, Bedforshire, England. She was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, in her childhood. On February 8th,
1850, she was married to Elder Job Smith,
while he was on a mission to England. Mrs.
Smith left England for Utah in 1854, with her
husband and little children. Her babe died on
board ship, and was consigned to the bosom of
the great deep; the eldest child died on the
steamer coming up the Mississippi and was
buried by the shore of the river.
	Deceased leaves a husband and five children,
who will miss her constant care and attention.
A sister and family are her only other rela-
tives in this land, but she has numerous friends
who will deeply and sincerely mourn her loss.
She was a woman of strong characteristics,
sterling integrity, and possessing most benevo-
lent qualities of heart.
	Mrs. Smith spent three years in Ogden, as-
sisting with untiring industry and womanly
tact and skill to aid in establishing the straw
millinery as a branch of home-manufacture of 
the Relief Society of Ogden. The President
and sisters of Ogden Relief Society condole
with the daughter who is left to take charge of
the family, and desire to manifest their deep
sympathy for the husband and children thus
sorely bereft, and they hereby wish to express
their ardent appreciation of her untiring labors
and successful efforts in the home industry in
which she worked so diligently and faithfully for 
three successive years. She will be long remem-
bered, and her memory will be dearly cherished
by her sisters there, and they will ever pray for 
the happiness, prosperity and peace of those
she has left behind, her children and friends.
	Mrs. Smith was a firm believer in the doc-
trines and principles of the Everlasting Gos-
pel, and bore a faithful testimony to the same.
Her indefatigable labors in making a branch of
home-manufacture popular and successful is
one of the best evidences of her faith and devo-
tion to the work of God in the last days, which
is a practical as well as spiritual work.
	Died, at Wallsburg, November 6th, 1878,
Bathsheba L. Kerby, beloved wife of Alma
Kerby, and daughter of our beloved President
of the Relief Society; aged 20 years, 1 month
and 21 days.
	Deceased was born at Provo, September 16th,
1858. She leaves a husband and two children
(the youngest two weeks old) and numerous
relatives and friends to mourn her loss. She
was a faithful Latter day Saint, beloved by all
who knew her. She was a teacher in our Re-
lief Society, which position she faithfully
filled. While we deeply mourn her absence,
we feel that our loss is her infinite gain.
	"Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord,
even so says the spirit, for they rest from their
labors and their works do follow them."
		S. G.
	Died, in Spanish Fork, September 25th, 1878,
Mary Magdalene, daughter of the late John
Baxter and Mary Ferguson, after a long and 
very painful illness.
	Deceased was born March 7th, 1860. She was
a very interesting and intelligent girl, much

[Column 3]

beloved by her associates. During her sickness
she many times expressed her gratitude to her
mother for her tender care and devoted atten-
tion to her. Her last words were blessing and
thanking her mother for her kindness. She
passed away peacefully, fully resigned to the
will of her Father in Heaven, and with a full
assurance of a resurrection with the just.
	H. C.


