ORGAN OF THE NEW YORK PHYSIOLOGICAL
	SOCIETY. A MONTHLY SIXTEEN PAGE
	QUARTO. THE ONLY HOME HEALTH JOUR-
	NAL PUBLISHED IN THE NEW WORLD TO-
	DAY.

	Its mission is to popularize the subject of
physiology, and be a harbinger of healing
for the household, a physician for the peo-
ple.
	Its grand, single purpose is to elevate and
bless human kind by promulgating truths
which. lie at the very foundation of the
earthly well being of man, and which the
whole world would be benefited by know-
ing and practicing.
	Its department of "Emergencies" make
it a cheap and ready work of reference in
cases of sudden sickness when a doctor may
not be within reach at the moment of need.
Special attention is given to antidotes and
means to be used in cases of poisoning, and
every number contains explicit directions
for the nursing and medical treatment of
diseases to which every family is subject at
some time.
	The Domestic department is crammed with
invaluable hints for the household, recipes
for cooking, etc, etc.
	The columns devoted to the Inquirer make
it an unexampled cyclopædia of practical
and needed knowledge; while those devoted
to popular Literature and general Reform
are unexcelled by any journal of the day.
	Subscription Price, $1,50 per year.
Single Copies 15 Cents.
	All the back numbers for six months from
the beginning of the Volume Fifty Cents.
	Address all subscriptions and communica-
tions to
		SARA B. CHASE, M. D., Editor.
	Physiological Rooms, 102 West 38 Street,
New York.


New York has twice as many women
printers as five years ago.
	Of the 470 students now in the Ohio
Wesleyan University 140 are ladies.
	THE woman suffragists throughout
Indiana are organizing in Congressional
districts.
	Mme. Litvinow, a Russian lady, has
received the degree of doctor of philosophy
from the University of Berne. She passed
her examination with such brilliancy, espec-
ially in mathematics, that the faculty unan-
imously agreed to attach the highest mark,
—"Cum summa laude"—to her diploma.


