WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
POLITENESS TO WIVES.
I have been led to reflect, by the many
incidents that have come under my obser-
vation, that there is a woful delinquency in
the common courtesies between husbands
and wives.  I have often said that polite-
ness is as essential to happiness as religion.
True religion polishes and refines the soul.
If a man cannot afford to be as polite to his
own wife, and treat her with as much re-
spect as he does his neighbor's wife, he does
not merit the appellation of husband.  Lan-
guage is too barren to express the indigna-
tion I feel when I hear a man speak in a
disrespectful manner to the mother of his
children.  The being who, by every species
of tenderness, he won for his bride, to
identify her existence with his, to risk the 
happiness and peace of her whole life in
his keeping; whom above all women on the
earth he should honor.  To hear him speak
in a coarse, harsh tone of voice, uttering
unhallowed and ungodly words of reproach
for a small offense, which the poor woman
had inadvertently committed, without the
least design af offending him, and this
perhaps in presence of their children, thus
wounding her pride; for what woman does
not feel dignified and elevated to have her
children see that their father honors her in
her position, as the presiding genius of his
household. When I witness the reverse of 
this, and I see an amiable, care-worn wo-
man treated like a servant, and even with
less respect, it reconciles me to the princi-
ple of plural marraige. I reason thus.
"Well, I know there are good men, culti-
vated and refined, who know enough to
treat their wives with kindness and polite-
ness; let them have all the good women,
and let the tyrants go without any.  I am
happy in remembering some good men I 
have known in this world.  I once resided
in a family for a year or more, the man
constantly at home, and not a harsh, unkind
word did I hear from the lips of the hus-
band towards the dear woman he had
chosen in his youth for a companion during 
this natural life: nothing beyond this life
did he know of the holy estate of matri-
mony.
 Another instance I will relate.  A young
man married a wife and moved her home
to his father's house to live with a large
family of brothers and sisters.  He wished
her to be honored by his relatives, and was
therefore thoughtful enough to guard him-
self against over uttering a reproving word
to her in their presence.  If in her deport
ment she sometimes tell short of his high-
est approval, he would appear not to notice
it till they were alone, and then remind
her in a gentle manner, and request her to 
be more guarded in future.  Seeing how 
wise he was made her doubly watchful.
She was ever mindful of St. Paul's injunc-
tion, "Let the wife see that she reverence
her husband."  She felt that his motive
was to give no license to his kindred to
reprove her.
 I remember a sea captain in the Society
Islands; rough as that class of men generally
are, there was one gentleman among them
by the name of McClain.  He married a Tahi-
tian native woman, and in process of time
brought her on a voyage to San Francisco, to
let her see a little of the world.  The ladies of
that city told me of his extreme politeness
to his tawny wife.  He took the utmost
pains to make her feel at ease among stran-
gers and white women, and really devoted
more attention to her than he would to one
who felt herself his equal.  The ladies were
ardent in his praise, saying, "How gentle-
manly it was in the captain, that instead of 
leaving her on board the vessel, or at the 
boarding house, and flirting with other
women (as many of his class would have
done), he paid her the polite attentions due
to a polished white woman."  And her na-
tural tendency to good sense taught her to
honor her husband.  And how could she do
otherwise, when having so noble an exam-
ple in one who, though her superior, treated
her as an equal.  And that was right; she
was his wife, a woman of integrity, amia-
ble and confiding, though untutored in the 
arts of modern civilization, she had natural
talents capable of a high development.
It is written of General Washington that
his most intimate friends never knew him
to be remiss in heightened courtesy to his
life companion.  Joseph Smith was another
example, as I learned from one long an in-
timate friend of his family.  Samuel R.
Wells won respect and admiration in Salt
Lake City by his thoughtful solicitude and
true politeness to his wife.
Alas!  How much of peace and happiness
is forfeited by a careless inattention to the 
laws made to govern male and female in
their matrimonial alliances.  May God speed
the day and help us to prepare for a higher
civilization.             L. B. P. BEAVER.


