THE ANTI-POLYGAMY PETITION.
	The ladies confess, in their address, that Con-
gress has utterly failed to put down Polygamy.
I would here ask the question, What is the 
cause of their failure?  It certainly is not be-
cause they have been negligent in proposing
plans, in laying schemes or in enacting laws.
No! not by any means; for most assuredly they
have been diligent workers in their master's
cause.  The answer is simple, but truly signifi-
cant- this is God's work.  He hath commanded
that the law of Celestial Marriage shall be ob-
served, and who shall disannul it?  What is 
the puny arm of man?  "It is like the bubble
in the brook."
	Again, they are horrified that an Apostle,
with four acknowledged wives, should be al-
lowed to sit in Congress.  Poor righteous souls!
How can they ever associate with the God of
Abraham? For we read in the good old Bible
that he was the friend of God, and in his seed
all the nations of the earth are to be blessed.
And how can their righteous souls ever stoop
to enter through the pearly gates of the New
Jerusalem, whereon shall be inscribed the 
names of the twelve Patriarchs noted polyga-
mists, and of polygamic descent?  Anti-polyg-
amists, do you believe the Bible?  If you do,
you will see by perusing its pages that polyga-
mists were eminently favored of God.  The
Lord appeared to Jacob when he was traveling
with his four wives, and blest him, and said,
"Thou art a prince, and hast power with God."
Also, God said unto Abraham, "This shall be a 
memorial unto all generations, that I am the
God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob."
	Again, "Gentiles are not admitted into the 
Endowment House, or Temples.  "O fools, and
slow of heart."  Know ye not that in the Mo-
saic dispensation none were permitted to enter
into the Holiest of Holies, except the High
Priests, and that only once a year.  And when-
ever God has a people holding the Holy Priest-
hood here on earth, they have holy places
wherein to administer in holy ordinances per-
taining therunto. And let the Gentiles be-
ware, and remember the fate of the Philis-
tines in connection with the ark of God.
	One question- What have these Christian
ladies to give us in lieu of Polygamy?  I will
answer for them, for the results of Monogamy
cry aloud, corruption, degradation, death, adul-
tery, illegitimacy, infanticide and all manner
of abominations follow in the train of Social 
Evil. And of this class are those who fight
against Apostles and Prophets, on whose head
shall be the blood of all the Prophets and of all
the slain of the earth, for as their fathers did
so do they; for the same wicked spirit is in
their hearts.  Under the scarlet cloak of Chris-
tianity they build up churches to dead Saints,
and if they lived in their midst they would
persecute them.
Another question- Sisters, shall we give up
Plural Marriage, or any other principle of Mor-
monism?  No! Echo answers No!  From
every mother and daughter in Israel; we shall
stand boldly for the cause of truth and virtue.
Our cause is just and in God is our trust.  Men
may bring trouble upon us, but God is able to
deliver us; we have proved Him in days that
are past.  Ever praying for the prosperity of 
