HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE mass meeting occupies so large a portion
of this issue that we feel it is scarcely necessary
to say manuscript sent us for this number is
laid over.
	WE had the pleasure of seeing and hearing
Mrs. Scott-Siddons, the famous artiste and
reader, which was indeed a rich intellectual
treat. Entertainments of this kind are calcu-
lated to give a higher tone to the thirst for lit-
erary food in the form of recreation. We would
be glad to see some of the home talent highly
developed in elocution and public reading.
	Y. L. M. I. A., ATTENTION. —The Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations of
the Salt Lake Stake of Zion are hereby request-
ed to forward a condensed report of their sev-
eral organizations, dating from commence-
ment, and including statistical and financial
reports, names of officers, changes that have
been made, number of members enrolled, aver-
age attendance, times of holding meetings, etc.
The reports should be sent in time to be read at
the ladies' quarterly conference, to be held
December 21, 1878. Address—P. O. Box 1183,
Salt Lake City.
		MARY A. FREEZE, Superintendent.
		E. R. SHIPP, Secretary.
	A MASS meeting was held by the ladies of
Granite Ward, on Thursday, November 21, 1878.
Meeting was called to order by Mrs. Ruth A.
Despain, and on motion of Miss Ella E. Des-
pain, Mrs. Hannah Chlarsen was elected
chairman of the meeting; Miss Ella E. Des-
pain was chosen secretary. The chairman,
Mrs. Hannah Chlarsen, arose and stated that
the object of the meeting was to protest against
the anti-polygamy crusade, and to fully en-
dorse the resolutions passed by the ladies that
assembled at the Theatre on Saturday, the
16th. A vote was taken that all who were in
favor of endorsing the said resolutions would
make it manifest, and it was carried unani-
mously, not one dissenting voice. They also
wish no sympathy and ask no favor of the anti-
polygamy crusaders. A vote of thanks was
rendered to the chairman and secretary, and
the meeting was adjourned.
	WOMAN'S TERRITORIAL ANNUAL GRAIN
MEETING.—The annual meeting of the several
committees engaged in storing grain for Zion
was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, November 23d, Mrs. E. B. Wells pre-
siding. After singing, prayer was offered by
Miss E. R. Snow. The first business of the
meeting was to choose a secretary; Mrs. Eliza-
beth Howard was elected by unanimous vote
of the assembly. The Secretary then read the
report of November, 1877, and the minutes of
the first annual meeting, which were accepted.
She then read the report of the present year.
Total, 14,535 bushels, 1,650 pounds of flour, oats 7
bushels. This added to the report of last year
and the amount handed in to the President
since the meeting was held, makes in all 25,000
bushels of grain stored by women, much of it
being the product of the sisters' labors in Relief
Societies and Y. L. M. I. Associations. Their


teen granaries have been built, several others
commenced, and many more contemplated.
The granary built by the Relief Society of the
15th Ward cost $432.91. The one built by the 
sisters of the 17th Ward cost $300. Other Re-
lief Societies have not reported the expense of
building. Many Relief Societies have good
substantial bins for present use. The meeting
was addressed by Mrs. E. B. Wells, Miss E. R.
Snow, Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. Phoebe Wood-
ruff, Mrs. Jane S. Richards, President of We-
ber County R. S. Stake, Mrs. Ann Odell, of 
Ogden, Mrs. Maria Carrington and Mrs. E.
Howard. The President presented some special
business, and the meeting was adjourned for
one year, after singing, and prayer by Mrs. B.
W. Smith.


