		PLURAL MARRIAGE.

	Since there has been such an excitement in
Salt Lake City recently over a supposed plural
marriage, it has caused me to ask myself the
question, Why is it that those who are not of
our faith will not give us credit for being sin-
cere; when we declare it to be a part of our
faith as much as baptism? I try to put the
most charitable construction on their views,
and suppose they judge us from their stand-
point. "Having eyes they see not, and ears
but understand not." If they would humble
themselves, and obey the Gospel with good
and honest hearts, they would understand
what they read, and the Scriptures would be
as a new book to them.
	I remember, in Nauvoo, being asked what I
would think if I should hear of an Elder tak-
ing more wives than one? I replied that I
would not think it at all strange, as we read in
the Bible that they did so anciently, and David,
"a man after God's own heart, sinned not in
this, save only in coveting the one wife of
Uriah." There are very many in this Church
who, from circumstances, are not practical
polygamists, yet believe and respect, and
would defend the principle just as readily as
those who have entered into it, if necessary.
That it is a great trial none will deny, to both
men and women, and much more to some than
others; and those who do not believe as we do
need not suppose that the Mormon women
would submit to it any more willing[-]y than
they, did they not believe it to be a command
from heaven; and knowing this they rely on


the Lord for his Spirit to help them, and when
men and women enter into it purely from these
motives they are sustained by the Holy Spirit,
the Comforter, and are sometimes a wonder to
themselves.
	But many who are scarcely worthy of one
wife enter into it recklessly, without realizing
the great responsibility they are assuming; to
such it is liable to bring more trouble than
blessings.
	What greater sacrifice can a woman make
than to be willing to divide the affections of
her husband with another? And yet many do
so cheerfully, and after living together for
years would not be separated on any considera-
tion, for they can be and are a comfort to each
other in times of trouble and sickness. There
are many men in this Church who, were it
not for this privilege, would not have a child
to bear their name, yet now have large fami-
lies.
	Before closing I would refer to an article in
a back number of the EXPONENT taken from
"Woman's Words," in which the writer seemed
to be seeking for a religion which was tangible.
I thought, on reading it, if she would only
obey the Gospel she would find just what she
is seeking. I do not wonder that the religions
of the day do not satisfy those who belong to
the various churches, for to me much of it is
superficial. The ministers preach for hire and
set at naught the things of God.
				ELIZABETH BENTLEY.
	St. George, Nov. 9th.


MRS. ANNA D. C. HARDY read a paper last
Saturday evening, at MRS. SARGENT'S, on "Elo-
cution Taught Physiologically," or the proper
training of the human voice. This system of
developing and training the vocal organs, reach[-]
es far beyond the throat, and includes the
lungs and the digestive organs. It has been
used for some time, with great success, by the
best teachers of singing, and they have had,
besides their pupils in singing, many men
suffering from what is usually called minister's
sore throat. This throat trouble, which afflicts
so many teachers and public speakers, can, in
most cases be entirely cured, or greatly relieved
by the proper use of the vocal organs. MRS.
HARDY is an enthusiastic teacher, fresh from
her own studies; she has the endorsement of
Dr. Holmes, Governor Rice, Proffessor Emer-
son. Miss Abby May, Miss Lucia Peabody and
Miss Lucretia Crocker, and can be cordially
commended to all who would avoid weakness
or horseness of voice. She is at 52 Bowdoin
street—Womans Journal.


