			MARRIAGE	 

	In this city, at the present time, the subject
of a plurality of wives, its conditions and con-
sequences, is the topic of the hour. It even
forms the basis of partyism, and that, too, be-
tween women. It cannot be expected that
any great innovation of established customs in
any country, however liberal, can be made
without its conflicting with the prejudices of
individuals, and especially those who are secta-
rian, sterotyped, or conservative. The genius
of Mormonism is progressive, it tends to a high-
er and more elevated phase of life; not accord-
ing to the views of the world through the
resources of wealth, but by means of higher
laws, given by revelation to a people humble,
willing and obedient. God seldom revealed
Himself in any age to the proud and haughty.
All the great and wise men favored of God in
past ages were meek and humble; when they
became lifted up the Lord chastised them; and
there is abundant testimony in the Scriptures,
that through humility and obedience the great-
est blessings from God are obtained.
	Many intelligent women as well as men,
out-numbering men even, have embraced the
doctrines of Mormonism; they comprehend its
truths for themselves. Among other princi-
ples, they have accepted the patriarchal order
of marriage as a part of their holy religion.
They are as sincere and fervent in their belief
on this subject as any other, in fact it is one of
the vital principles of their faith. It is inter-
woven intricately with their hearts and lives.
	What is there so strong as woman's love?
And are Mormon women less capable of loving
than their Gentile sisters? Remember, good
friends, who so much desire to do good to Mor-
mon women, you are touching the most sensi-
tive subject when you seek to disannul their
marriage covenants, and bring discord and
confusion into homes where now exist peace
and harmony and love.
	Far better had you set yourselves to effect
some measures whereby single ladies of mature
age might secure homes, and become the
mothers of children. Mormon women have
not entered into these solemn and sacred cove-
nants without understanding for themselves.
They have searched the Scriptures, they have
sought God in prayer and fasting, and thou-
sands of them can testify to-day of great spir-
itual manifestations, giving them positive
knowledge of God's approval of this holy order
of matrimony.
	It is folly to suppose that intelligent women,
possessing fine spiritual natures—women who
have forsaken homes and the society of loved
ones, enduring all sorts of hardship, toil and
privation, and braving actual dangers for their
religion, would enter lightly, without serious

[Column 2]
reflection and candid investigation, into mar-
riage covenants, that were contrary to the es-
tablished rules and customs of the country;
especially at the sacrifice of all woman's self-
ishness.
	Great and good men and women highly fa-
vored of God were the founders on earth of the
Patriarchal order of marriage, and therefore it
cannot in itself be a crime because God has
expressly declared Himself against adultery.
	In the prose writings of John Milton (better
known as a poet), tenth chapter of "A Treatise
on Christian Doctrine," we find sound and
logical reasoning on this subject: "In the
definition (of marriage) which I have given, I
have not said, in compliance with the common
opinion of (ONE MAN WITH ONE WOMAN), lest I
should, by implication, charge the holy patri-
archs and pillars of our faith, Abraham and the
others who had more than one wife at the same
time, with habitual fornication and adultery;
and lest I should be forced to exclude from the
sanctuary of God as spurious, the holy offspring
which sprang from them, yea, the whole of
the sons of Israel, for whom the sanctuary it-
self was made. For it is said (Deut. xxiii, 2)
'A bastard shall not enter into the congrega-
tion of Jehovah, even to his tenth generation.'
Either, therefore, polygamy is a true marriage,
or all children born in that state are spurious;
which would include the whole race of Jacob,
the twelve holy tribes chosen by God. But as
such an assertion would be absurd in the ex-
treme, not to say impious, and as it is the
height of injustice as well as an example of
most dangerous tendency in religion to account
as sin what is not such in reality, it appears to
me, that, so far from the question respecting the
lawfulness of polygamy being trivial, it is of
the highest importance it should be decided."
	After much more arguing in favor of polyga-
my Milton says: "Lastly, I argue as follows
from Heb. xiii, 4. "Polygamy is either, mar-
riage, or fornication, or adultery.' The Apostle
recognizes no fourth state. Reverence for so
many patriarchs who were polygamists will, I
trust, deter any one from considering it as for-
nication or adultery; "For whoremongers and
adulterers God will judge;' whereas the patri-
archs were the objects of his especial favor, as
He Himself testifies. If, then, polygamy be
marriage properly so called, it is also lawful
and honorable.	*	*	*	It appears to
me sufficiently established by the above ar-
guments that polygamy is allowed by the law
of God; lest, however, any doubt should re-
main, I will subjoin abundant examples of
men whose holiness renders them fit examples
for imitation, and who are among the lights of
our faith." Milton then enumerates the po-
lygamists who were the recipients of special
favor from God; among them Elkanah, the fa-
ther of Samuel, who took with him his two
wives every year to the sacrifices and annual
worship. Milton adds, "Who can believe,
either that so many men of the highest charac-
ter should have sinned through ignorance for
so many ages, or that their hearts should have
been so hardened, or that God should have tol-
erated such conduct in his people? Let, there-
fore, the rule received among theologians have
the same weight here as in other cases"—"The
practise of the Saints is the best interpretation
of the commandments."
	Plural marriage presents itself now to the
public in the form of a living problem, and it
is one that puzzles and perplexes this gen-
eration. Men have been cogitating and leg-
islating to solve this vexed problem, and
now behold women have the matter under se-
rious consideration. Well, good friends, there
is something abstruse and deep in the Mormon

[Column 3]
Problem, and it is similar to a Mathematical
Problem, for it needs a key and that key be-
longs to the Great Teacher, and He gives it
only to the humble and obedient, who take
upon themselves his name and enter into cove-
nant with Him. These are they who are par-
takers of the promises given through Abraham
the father of the faithful. Mormonism lives, to-
day in the hearts of its thousands of followers
and will perpetuate its institutions through
their posterity.			E. B. Wells


