		THEATRE, SALT LAKE CITY.

	Pursuant to a call published in our last
issue, a mass meeting of the women of this 
city convened in the Salt Lake Theatre, on
Saturday, Nov. 16th, at 2 o'clock p.m., to 
protest against the interference of the Anti-
Polygamy crusade with their rights and
privileges as American citizens. The large
and commodious building, which will ac-
commodate 2,000 people, was crowded in
every part except the third circle, and even
that was mostly filled. There must have
been at least 1,500 ladies. It was an inspir-
ing spectacle to gaze upon; such an one as
is seldom seen. No gentlemen were ad-
mitted except reporters. Elder George F.
Gibbs, shorthand reporter, was on the plat-
form by special request, to make a full and
complete report of the proceedings. Re-
porters from the Deseret News, Salt Lake
Herald, Salt Lake Tribune and the Chicago
Inter-Ocean were on the platform; also
many other newspaper people, among whom
were Judge Tilford, Mr. Hollister and Mr.
Lockley, the others were strangers. Repre-
senative ladies of this city were upon the 
stand, to take part in the proceedings, and 
many veteran women, who have been true

[Column 2]
and faithful from the days of Kirtland, were
there to give their support to the action of 
the meeting and silently manifest their
approval.
	The assembly was called to order by Mrs.
Zina D. Young, and on motion of Mrs. E.B.
Wells, Miss Eliza R. Snow was elected
President; Mrs S. M. Kimball was chosen
Secretary, and Mrs. Augusta J. Crocheron,
Assistant Secretary.
	The choir, led by Mrs. E. Thomas, Mrs.
Fannie Y. Thatcher, organist, then sang
"The Standard of Zion."
	Mrs. Prescindia Kimball offered the
opening prayer. Mrs. Kimball prayed that
wisdom might inspire those assembled to-
gether on this great and solemn occasion;
that everything might be done for the 
honor and glory of God. That as God's 
outstretched arm had carried his people
through many trials, He would be with
them now; that He would bless and pro-
tect them through all trials and tribula-
tions; that He would remember in mercy
this free country, the President of the
United States and its rulers; also the Gover-
nors of each State and Territory; that He
would bless our Delegate to Congress, who
was about to go to Washington; that He
would pour out His Holy Spirit upon him;
that He would uphold the principle of Ce-
lestial Marriage, which He had revealed in
these last days for the good of the human
family, notwithstanding the persecutions of
those who sought to overthrow it; that He
would strengthen Zion and bless the young
and rising generation, and bring peace into
the valleys of the mountains. She dedicat-
ed the congregation to the Lord, prayed
that angels might guard them in this hour of
trial; and hasten the time when Zion shall be
redeemed, and all shall be accomplished for 
the living and the dead, even back to the 
time when the priesthood was taken from
the earth.
	The choir sang, "Up, awake ye defenders
of Zion."
	On being called to the chair, Miss Eliza
R. Snow said:
Beloved Sisters and Friends:
	It now becomes my duty, as president
over this assembly, to state the object of
this meeting. As saints of the living God,
who have been persecuted and driven from
our homes from place to place, and now lo-
cated in the valleys of these mountains,
having been misrepresented from time to 
time, we claim the privilege, to-day, of
representing ourselves. As true and loyal
American citizens, we claim the right of
protection by that government under
which we live, and the free exercise of our
religious rights. It is for the sake of our
religion that we are located here; and inas-
much as we, the veritable women of Utah,
those who came here when this land and
soil belonged to Mexico, and who, through
our faith, prayers and indefatigable labors,
have assisted in reclaiming it—making it
habitable and beautiful—we claim that we
have, under God and under the glorious
constitution of our country, which has been 
bequethed to us by our forefathers, and 
which we believe to have been given by the 
inspiration of God through our noble pro-

[Column 3]
genitors, the sacred right to believe as we
please—to listen to the voice of God when
he speaks—to obey him by keeping those
commandments which he has delivered
unto us, knowing that he has spoken in
these last days by his own voice, by the 
voice of his well beloved Son, and by the 
voice of angels to him whom he raised up
prophet and seer, that He has gathered his
people together from the four quarters of
the earth, that He is establishing a govern-
ment upon the principles of purity, peace
and righteousness. We feel that it is our
right to worship God according to the dic-
tates of our own consciences, without fear
or molestation, under the protection of that
government which guarantees unto us the
right of conscience. And inasmuch as one
of the most important principles which God
has revealed, and which He requires of his
children to practice, has been assailed, we
have met to mutually express our views
upon this subject.
	Before the principle of plurality of wives
was known to be practiced by the Latter-
day Saints, we were driven, our prophet
and patriarch were vilely massacred, and 
not one of the perpetrators of the atrocious
deed has ever been brought to justice. We
have submitted to these wrongs, we have
suffered oppression, privation, hardships
and misrepresentation, and now we feel
that it is our right, and duty demands of us,
to express our sentiments.
	I am proud to state before this large and 
honorable assembly that I believe in the 
principle of plural marriage just as sacredly
as I believe in any other institution which
God has revealed. I believe it to be neces-
sary for the redemption of the human fam-
ily from the low state of corruption into 
which it has sunken. And I truly believe
that a congress composed of polygamic
men, who are true to their wives, would
confer a far higher honor upon a nation, and 
would perform better service to their coun-
try than a congress composed of monogam-
ic, unreliable husbands.
	Virtue is the foundation of the prosperity
of any nation; and this sacred principle of
plural maariage tends to virtue, purity, and
holiness. Those who represent the women
of Utah as ignorant and degraded, are
either aiming to bring evil upon us, or they
know not what they are doing. Although
I deprecate the false and odious representa-
tions of our condition, and the vilification
of our characters, I view with pity and 
commiseration those who have banded to-
gether in our midst, to work up a crusade
that is calculated and designed to subvert
and to sever the most sacred ties existing
between man and woman—to separate hus-
bands and wives, to put the reproach of bas-
tardy upon their children, and trample
upon the holiest affections of the human
heart. I say I look upon them with sym-
pathy and commiseration,  They are trying
to measure arms with the Almighty—they
know not what they do. Do I feel a spirit
of revenge towards them? No, my sisters,
I do not. They are in the hands of God,
and to him we submit all these matters.
Yet it is our duty, as far as we have the 
privilege, to plead our own cause, realizing
fully that it is better to represent ourselves


[Column 1]
than to be misrepresented, and leave ven-
geance unto God, who has said, "Vengeance
is mine, and I will repay." For this pur-
pose, my sisters, we have met together to
express our feelings and to plead our own
cause.
	The following address was then read by
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith:
	It is somewhat surprising that we, who
are the true representatives of the women
of Utah, having, in connection with our
husbands, assisted in redeeming these once
desert valleys, should be called to assemble
to vindicate ourselves against misrepre-
sentations made by our Christian sisters,
those who have arrived here at so late a
date and for so different an object. We
were driven from our homes to seek refuge
somewhere else, for the testimony of Jesus
and the word of God. They know why they
are here. We came because we loved God
and the principles of righteousness, "count-
ing all things as dross for the excellency of
the knowledge of God," who had revealed
Himself in our day; hoping that far away
from a professed Christianity we might live
in peace and worship Him who had so
highly favored us, and live in accordance
with those principles which alone lead to
endless lives. As a legal citizen of this
great republic, I enter my most fervent pro-
test against this unlawful and unhallowed
crusade founded on misrepresentations.
Congress has no right to interfere with our
most sacred religion. As well might that
honorable body legislate against baptism by
immersion aa against plurality of wives.
God has revealed these principles, and they
must be sustained. With our own free con-
sent our husbands take more wives, and
when children crown our joy, around our
sacred family altars we bow the knee and
supplicate our Heavenly Father's blessing
on our household, and rejoice in his divine
favor as legitimate wives with honorable
children. We regard our husbands as men
of true virtue and integrity, who take
upon themselves so great a responsibility
in honoring the laws of God, and we bear
them up in our faith and secret prayers,
Let our sisters in the United States know
this, and instead of seeking special legisla-
tion to infringe upon our liberties, let them
rather take the honorable part and protect
us in our rights, and thus make for them-
selves a nobler record.
	Sister Zina D. Young delivered the fol-
lowing extemporaneous speech:
	The ladies of Utah, whose intelligent
faces I now look upon! Could I have had a
vision of so grand a spectacle 40 years ago,
when as a church, few in numbers, we were
struggling for an existence on the earth, I
question whether I then could have be-
lieved my eyes, nor could I then have
thought that God had prepared so great a 
blessing, that I should behold so goodly a
number of intelligent ladies who have had
the privilege of being baptized into Christ,
of putting on Christ, counting it no rob-
bery with God to be heirs and joint heirs
with his Son Jesus. It was for this pur-
pose you and I found a resting place in 
these valleys of the mountains, which, as
has been remarked, was not then United
States soil. The incidents of our coming
here in the manner we did—the fatigue,
the suffering from cold and hunger as well
as the heart-rending scenes through which
we passed, have often been penned. Bbt
Oh! none can realize them, or appreciate
fully our feelings when contemplating those
early experiences, but those who have
passed through them. Those scenes have

[Column 2]
passed; but we are sometimes reminded of
them; especially when croppings of the
same spirit are witnessed in those who op-
pose us in our rights, which prompted those 
who forced upon us our sufferings.
	The principle of our holy religion that is
assailed is one that lies deep in my heart.
Could I ask the heavens to listen; could I
beseech the earth to be still, and the brave
men who possess the spirit of a Washing-
ton to hear what I am about to say! I am
the daughter of a Master Mason! I am the
widow of a Master Mason, who when leap-
ing from the windows of Carthage jail
pierced with bullets, made the Masonic
sign of distress; but, gentlemen, (address-
ing the representatives of the press that
were present) those signs were not heeded
except by the God of heaven. That man,
the prophet of the Almighty, massacred
without mercy! He is now with those who
are crying, "Wait a little longer, until the 
blood of your brethren, the martyrs, is
shed." [Applause.] Sisters, this is the
first time in my life that I have dared to 
give utterance to this fact, but I thought I 
could trust my soul to say it on this occa-
sion, and I say it now in the fear of Israel's
God, and I say it in the presence of these
gentlemen, and I wish my voice could be
heard by the whole brotherhood of Masons
throughout our proud land. That instit[-]-
tion I honor. If its principles were prac-
tised and strictly adhered to, would there
be a trespass upon virtue? No indeed.
Would the honorable wife or daughter be
intruded on with impunity? Nay verily.
Would that the ladies of America, with
the honorable Mrs. Hayes at their head;
would that the Congress of the United
States, the law-makers of our nation, could
produce a balm for the many evils which
exist in our land through the abuse of vir-
tue, or could so legislate that virtue could
be protected and cherished as the life which
heaven has given us! We, in common
with many a woman throughout our broad
land, would hail with joy the approach of 
such deliverance, for such is the deliver-
ance that woman needs.
	The principle of plural marriage is hon-
orable, it is a principle of the Gods—it is 
heaven-born. God revealed it to us, among
other things, as a saving principle; we
have accepted it as such, and we know it is
of him for the fruits of it are holy. Worthy
men and women of old practised it, even
the Savior himself traces his lineage back
to polygamic parents. We are proud of 
the principle because we understand its
true worth, and we want our children to 
practise it, that through us a race of men
and women may grow up possessing sound
minds in sound bodies, who shall "live to
the age of a tree."
	Some of the ladies who have so recently
come among us have thought fit to band to-
gether, for what? If they truly want to
benefit and bless their sex, let them direct
their labors among the many unfortunate
women of the towns and cities from whence
they came. They cannot help us. God
alone can do that. And we are already
blessed with comfortable and happy homes,
with rights and privileges which they can
neither give nor take from us. And we
are blessed with husbands whom we have
confidence in, and we honor them as they
honor their God. And let me tell you, my
sisters, there are many good and intelligent
women in our land to-day who wish their
husbands were as honorable as ours, and 
that they could tie to theirs as we can to
ours. We love our husbands, we love our
children, and we love our religion, and

[Column 3]
there is abundance of proof in what we
have done that we are sincere.
	The next speaker was Mrs. Hannah T.
King, who read the following, written by
herself:
	I heard in my youth of the perfect free-
dom and the glorious liberty of America;
of the uncounted wealth of her citizens;
that there were no poor in America; that
fraternity and equality walked hand in 
hand; that her constitution was the most
faultless thing on earth; that the finger of
God was palpable in its formation; that the
country produced almost spontaneously; its
prospects grand and glorious; that her hills
were mountains and her rivers seas; that
the worship of the great Creator was free
and unbiased to all, without any restric-
tions, even though it were absurd, or
thought to be so, still it was free, and all
respected! For this very freedom the
"Mayflower" bore her precious freight of
souls across th[-] mighty Atlantic. Yes, the 
one grand idea. that here they might wor-
ship God according to the dictates of their
own individual creed and conscience. I
was born free and was an earnest, deep-
thinking girl, and the glory of this descrip-
tion became daguerrotyped on my young
mind till the dream of my youth became
a desire to visit this Eldorado and see for
myself this glorious Young America! this
far renowned republic! But years passed,
and the way did not open. I was married
early in life, and peace and plenty sur-
rounded my habitation, my cup became full
to overflowing, of good things. When I
heard of a people who had risen up in this
land which I had so poetized in my own
mind, and that they were called Latter-day
Saints; my mind was brought to a focus up-
on the principles they advanced; I consult-
ed no one but my God. I took my Bible
and compared them with the teachings of
Jesus, and found they corresponded in ev-
ery particular. The Elders told me that an 
angel had come and restored the everlasting
Gospel in its purity again to the earth, that
revelations had been given for the reorgan-
ization of God's church upon the earth, the
door being that by which Christ himself
entered when he was baptized by John the 
Baptist before entering upon his mission,
etc., etc. I listened and obeyed; there were
no inducements held o[-]t of ecclesiastical
honors, or of a high position in society. No!
but that probably my [-]ame would be cast
out as evil when I took upon myself the 
name of a disciple of Jesus, whose life was
suffering and obedience! The love of truth
and the Spirit of God showed me that this
Church was according to the pattern, in
every particular, that Christ had laid down
and established by his own example; I em-
braced it, passing through the door of bap-
tism for the remission of my sins. And
now the way was open for me to realize the 
dream of my youth, and become an inhab-
itant of this free and glorious country, that
I had so often heard spoken of as the refuge
of the destitute, and the land of the free!
Then came the astounding news that Jo-
seph Smith, the Prophet, Seer and Revela-
tar of the Church of Christ, had been mas-
sacred for his principles! as also his brother
Hyrum with him! It came like a thunder-
bolt! What, in America? that land whose
constitution guaranteed to all of every
clime among her people, "Life, liberty and
the pursuit of happiness!" Alas! I awak-
ened from my early dream! My eyes were
opened and I saw, and knew that light had
come into the world, but darkness was pre-
ferred. To me, it acted only as a testimony


[Column 1]
that this was indeed the Church of Jesus
Christ re-established upon the earth, and
hence the persecution. Gathering was and
is one of our principles, and I had the spirit
of it as soon as I had been baptized; my
good and beautiful children embraced it
also, and we arose and left our beloved
home, laying all upon the altar, if need be,
for the Gospel in its fulness; and embracing
all its principles and of course plurality
among the rest. I had been educated in the
strictest principles of morality and refine-
ment, yet when I had heard that this was
one of the tenets of the Church, given by
revelation, I was by no means staggered,
but pondered it in my heart like Mary of
old! I knew it was the order of the an-
cient Saints, and great blessings had been
conferred upon the human family by obey—
ing it, even the Saviour coming to the 
earth through that lineage. Viewing it
also philosophically, I felt that its laws co-
incided with the law of my nature. My
daughters entered into the order in all their
youth and beauty—educated as they had﻿
been in all the refinements of the world,
and have ever honored it, and been an
honor to it, and to the Church, whose prin-
ciples they left their homes and all its at-
tractions to obey; and if my husband did not
enter into it, he was of course free to follow
his own mind; he was a man of the purest,
most refined morals, and I never heard him
say or hint one word against the [-]rder,
even when his young daughters entered in-
to it. "Verily, to the pure, all things are
pure." I have now been in the Church
twenty-eight years, and my path has not
been one of roses by any means, but I have
no regrets. I would not return to former
things, for Queen Victoria's crown and all
its appendages. The Lord being my helper,
I will live and die where I have cast my
lot. Its principles will feed and sustain all
those who desire to live them, and are full
of glory and immortality. This is, indeed
a mere synopsis of my Church history, but
a hint to the wise and good is sufficient for
them.
	I would like to have an interview with
the first lady of our country at the present
time. I have heard much of her goodness,
her love of honesty and truth, and should
love to see her take steps to investigate our
principles, and us as a people, we court in-
ves[-]igation, and never feel afraid. For
perfect love casteth fear. We love the hon-
est, ths wise and the good of every land and
clime, for one touch of the gospel makes
the whole world kin, when they embrace
it.
	If there are strangers present, I would
respectfully ask them to investigate our
principles—not the characters of men and
women indiscriminately, the truth of God
is not dependent on human action or hu-
man judgment. Among what churches on
earth are there no imperfect ones? We
must first be perfect our[-]elves before we
throw down the gauntlet. This is a proba-
tion, and imperfection is at present the law
of our being; by this "we make the whips
that scourge us," and by this we get our
schooling and increase in knowledge, wis-
dom and understanding, and then we can
make all things work for our good in time
and eternity.
	Mrs. Margaret T. Smoot made the follow
ing impromptu speech:
	I am thankful, a[--] proud of the privilege
of standing before my sisters in the new and
everlasting covenant, many of whom know
me and have known me for many years. I
have been a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints forty-four years;

[Column 2]
I have trodden paths strewn with thorns,
and I have trodden paths strewn with roses.
I have enjoyed my life and my religion all
the days I have spent in it. I know for
myself that we are engaged in the work of
the living God, and that I am numbered
among his people.
	With regard to the principle of plural
marriage, I wish to say, that I have had
experience in its practice for over thirty
years. I am the wife of a polygamist, I be-
lieve in the principle, and I know it to be
pure and chaste; and I know that those
who practise it in the spirit of the Gospel
of which it is a part, are pure and virtuous.
	And I know, too, that purer men and wo-
men do not live upon God's footstool than
those who live in this order of marriage.
	I have seen the Prophet Joseph through
whom this principle was revealed; I have
listened to his teachings, I have known for
myself of his virtue, of his purity, of his
goodness, of his desire to elevate and bless
the human family, and what I say, many of
you, my sisters, can bear witness of. I
know, too, that virtue and goodness and
purity is the watchword of our brethren; I
say I KNOW, I do not say I believe it, but I
do know for myself that what I say is
true. I know it by the revelations of the
Spirit of the living God—the Comforter
that was promised by the Saviour, and it is
confirmed by my long experience: I have
lived now nearly seventy years on this
earth, and forty-fonr of them have been
spent serving my God in this new and ever-
lasting covenant.
	My husband, as I have intimated, is a
polygamist; his other wives and his chil-
dren by those are just as much a part of his
family as me and mine, I being his first
wife; and his other wives are just as lawful
and honorable in the sight of God as I am,
and his children I consider to be just as
lawful and honorable as any children born
in wedlock. These are not only my feelings,
but I know them to be the feelings of many
others who o[-]cupy a position like that
which I occupy, and I believe them to be
the feelings of this whole community who
would, if they had the privilege, speak in
their own defense. We are not a degraded
community; we are not in abject slavery.
We have our privileges and rights—just as
many as I want, and as many as I know
how to use. Let me repeat—we are not
"degraded," neither are our children. We
have the noblest of children and the happi-
est of homes. I would be willing to com-
pare my husband's family with anybody's
family, to see what defect can be found in
them. Our sisters, ladies of other persua-
sions, have spoken of us as being "degrad-
ed." They do not know us, we are not un-
derstood, our principles are not understood,
neither are our motives known. We have
never attempted to interfere with any of
their privileges. On the contrary, we
have made them welcome to our land, after
making it what it is. We are they who
came here when the place was a desert wil-
derness: who have subdued the arid soil,
built the cities and planted the gardens and
vineyards, and made the place beautiful
and desirable. We, I say, have done this, un-
der the blessing of Almighty God, for with-
out his blessing upon our labors we could
not have endured the toil. But let me say,
that as far as our situation is concerned, we
are in the hands of God, and, as has often
been said, so I say, if this work is of God,
it will stand, despite all efforts to the con-
trary; and if of man, it must fail. But I do
not use the word "if" as though in doubt of
it, because I know, and you know, my sis-

[Column 3]
sters, tnat it is of God; and we know, to o
of the purity, the virtues and the integrity
that fill the bosoms of our sisters belonging
to this Church. We do not profess to be
perfect, but we can say, that those who live
up to all their privileges are blessed and
owned of God. We are in his hands, and
he will take care of his people.

	Dr. Romania B. Pratt read the following
address.

Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen:

	To get the proper understanding of a
subject about which there is a difference of
opinion, and especially in an element where
right and wrong are so intricately inter-
mingled—wrong displacing right at every
presented opportunity, we must eliminate
the facts, which are the stern and indisput-
able rounds in the ladder of ascent by
which we climb slowly, but surely, to the
true solution of the difficulty. Suddenly
there has arisen in our midst a new variety
of opposition; the object of which is to
tread into the dust, without stint or dis-
tinction, that which we hold most sacred.
It is an element that, in the search for evil,
has skimmed from the surface the floating
ills with which (magnified and recolored by
their own perverted imagination into abso-
lute misrepresentation) they have sought to
arouse in the public mind, sentiments as
bitter as their own, with this object—that
we may be swept out of existence without
our cause being investigated or considered.
They have entirely overlooked the fact that
truth is heavy and often lies hidden in the
depths of unspoken words and deeds.
	The first question in the process of anal-
ysis of this matter is, who are these oppos-
ers? and second, who are the opposed? The
latter are they who, by glancing back
through the vista of thirty years, may be
seen in their westward journey as a little
handful of husbands, wives and children,
slowly w[-]nding their way toward the wil-
derness; with the cheerful hope treasured
deeply in their hearts, that there, buried in
its depths, they might worship God accord-
ing as he revealed his will and command-
ments. Thus the weary miles were crept
over, patiently overcoming the obstacles
of nature, braving dangers from wild men
and beasts, until the Lord whispered to his
anointed Prophet, "Here, in the barren
valley of the Great Salt Lake, is the resting
place of my people."
	Dilligently the pitching of tents went on,
followed by busy preparations for the ap-
proaching uptried winter, without a single
misgiving as to the result, for their hearts
were filled with the sustaining and glowing
influence of the Holy Spirit, inspiring them
with the assurance that God was near. As
the fruits of indomitable energy, persever-
ance and patient labor, the wild sagebrush
vanished, the rocky and arid soil, through
the power of the life-giving streams of
water, softening the forbidden face of na-
ture into smiling fields and gardens. With
this glad change of elements there gradual-
ly arose and prospered; industries, enter-
prise and [-]ommerce, the busy hum of
which tickled the ears of lovers of gain,
when again the web of our lives is inter-
woven with the hostile element of former
years. Is it a necessity that a community
of members of widely differing sentiments
on religious matters need harbor and foster
feelings of bitterness and strife? The many
true and tried "Gentile" friends of our 
people certi[-]y to the negative.
	There come times in our lives which
specially demand that the true spirit and

		(Continued on Page 102.)


[Column 1]

	(Continued from Page 99.)
strength of each individual should come
forth and take a firm stand for her convic-
tions and principles. History repeats itself
in the events of the sailing of our pilgrim
fathers, the signing of the constitution, the
exodus of the saints in '46, and to-day, the
enforced necessity of vindicating and pre-
serving the most sacred principle of our
faith and the honor and integrity of our-
selves and husbands. The days of silence
and patient endurance of calumny on the
women of the Latter-day Saints concerning
the subject of plural marriage are over.
And notwithstanding that "neglected cal-
umny soon expires," the great importance
of the fact that our children and children's
children have been born and bred under the
teachings and practice of this great princi-
ple, and the sacredness of our duty to pre-
serve hallowed and pure in their hearts the
altar of filial love, though sub-ordinate to
our higher duty of obedience to God, is an
inspiration not to be neglected or unheeded.
	It is the imperative duty and inaliena-
ble right of every woman to choose her re-
ligious path in life, and this we have done
to the perfect answering of heart and con-
science. To me there is but one alternative
beside the faith of the Latter-day Saints,
and that is Infidelity—the shoreless deep to
which too many are surely drifting. As to
securing to ourselves a path in this life
without perplexities and trials, can this
security be found where there is only one
wife, any more than in the family of plural
marriage? Investigation says not. There-
fore we believe, and are constrained to say
that if the progressive spirit of the age and
true Christian sympathy and labor be di-
rected toward the redemption and elevation
of the myriads of wronged and abandoned
women, abounding in all great cities, to the
rearing and education of the thousands of
illegitimate children, and to the enactment
of such laws that shall lay the axe at the
root of this evil, that very soon a feeling of
peace and goodwill would fill the hearts of
the nation, and the spirit of mobocracy,
that would invade the homes of the saints,
depart from the face of the land.
	The following preamble and resolutions
were read by Miss Annie Wells, which, on
motion, were unanimously adopted:
		PREAMBLE AND RESOLUTIONS.
	WHEREAS, We, women of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, have been
misjudged and misrepresented to the na-
tion, by those in our midst of our own sex,
in regard to our most sacred rights—the
rights which pertain to the holy relations
of wifehood and motherhood, we do hereby
earnestly, solemnly and emphatically de-
clare our true sentiments, and invite a
thorough and impartial investigation of our
cause; wherefore:
	RESOLVED, That we, women of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, and loyal American citizens, claim
the right guaranteed by the Constitution
that "Congress shall make no law respecting
an establishment of religion or prohibiting
the free exercise thereof;" a right which
we seek to exercise, not to the injury of
others, but within the pale of peace and
justice, of life, liberty and pursuit of hap-
piness, according to the dictates of our own
consciences.
	RESOLVED, that we protest against
any enactment of any laws which de-
prive American citizens, whether male
or female, of any constitutional right; and
that we make a united effort to secure the
unanimous voice of the women of our faith,

[Column 2]

to plead the passage of the Sixteenth
Amendment during the coming session of
Congress.
	RESOLVED, That we solemnly avow
our belief in the doctrine of the Pa-
triarchal order of marriage, a doctrine
which was revealed to and practised by
God's people in past ages, and is now re-
established on the earth, by divine com-
mand of Him who is the same yesterday,
to-day and forever. A doctrine which, if
lived up to and carried out under the direc-
tion of the precepts pertaining to it, and of
the higher principles of our nature, would
conduce to the long life, strength and glory
of the people practising it; and we there-
fore endorse it, as one of the most import-
ant principles of our holy religion, and
claim the right of its practice.
	RESOLVED, That we do truly appre-
ciate the efforts and labors of the noble
ladies of the National Woman's Suffrage
Association, who, though opposed in their
feelings to plural marriage, and without
sympathy for our religious views, bravely
defended the cause of woman's rights in
Utah, in the halls of Congress, and take
this public opportunity of tendering them
an expression of our sincere and heartfelt
thanks.
	RESOLVED, That the women of Utah
memorialize Congress, setting forth
their grievances, and that they take such
other justifiable steps as may be necessary
to defend themselves against the ruthless
and violent assault now being made upon
their sacred and constitutional rights.
	Mrs. Phoebe Woodruff then said:
	My sisters, I can say that I stand before
you as a witness of the truthfulness of the
doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints. It has been upwards of
forty years since my first acquaintance with
these doctrines, this people and the Pro-
phet Joseph Smith. I knew him to be an
honorable, virtuous and pure man, and his
brother Hyrum also. They strove as much
as they could to bless the saints and people
of this generation by the teaching of true
and righteous principles. If my memory
serves me rightly, the Prophet was arrested
forty different times accused of crimes, but
nothing was ever proved against him. And
after laboring until he was 38 years of age,
he with his brother Hyrum was murdered,
and for what? For teaching the Gospel of
Jesus as revealed to him from the heavens,
of which the whole world was in ignor-
ance, and when those wicked men commit-
ted this act, they knew not they had killed
the best friend they had upon the earth.
However, that deed must be accounted for,
justice and judgment will take their place.
	I was brought up to regard strictly the
principles of morality; and when the order
of Celestial Marriage was introduced into
the Church, I thought it the most heinous
thing I ever heard of, and I opposed it to
the utmost of my power, thinking I was
doing right. But I began to consider and
reflect, and I learned that it came through
the prophet of God. I regarded it in an
earnest light, and therefore I went to God,
my heavenly Father, and inquired of Him
of the truth of this doctrine. He made it
manifest to me as plainly as I could have
wished that it was of Him, and that it
came as a principle of salvation to the wo-
men of this generation. If I am proud of
anything in this world it is that I accepted
the principle of plural marriage and re-
mained among the people called "Mor-
mons" and am numbered with them to-day.
I am acquainted with their doctrines, and

[Column 3]

I declare to this large congregation, and I
would that I could do so to the whole world,
that they teach the principles of truth and
righteousness, of virtue and purity. Such
principles will harm no one. Then why
are we so persecuted? To answer briefly,
because these principles are of God, who
has set his hand again to establish his name
in the earth, by introducing these very
principles, which the adversary cannot and
will never overthrow. And those who per-
secute this principle will suffer for it, sure.
I can say truly that I am satisfied for one—
and I do'nt guess at it, nor is it because
some one has told me—but it is because the
Spirit of God has borne testimony to me of
the truth of this work, and of its truthful-
ness I am a witness. Then why are people
opposed to it? It is because they do not
know it, and because they do not seek to
know it. There is but one way that any-
body can find out the truth of our doctrines,
and that is by going to God, the Author of
them, in all humility and honesty of heart,
asking Him in the name of Jesus whether
they are of Him or of man.
	To those who have come among us, and
who are endeavoring to put down this prin-
ciple of plural marriage, I would say that
for one, I thank you for your good inten-
tions in trying to suppress what you think
is wrong; but let me say to you, and I now
speak the sentiments of by far the larger
part of this congregation, bestow your sym-
pathy upon those who need it; go to the
large cities of our land and reclaim your
poor fallen sisters; they need it, we don't,
and we ask to be let alone. We are per-
fectly able to stand on our own foundation,
by the help of our Heavenly Father; and
let me tell you that He is at the helm, He
will see us safely through, and will bless all
those who seek to honor and respect virtue;
and those who do it not will meet justice.
Beware, then, you injure not the innocent,
for justice awaits all that shall be found
guilty of doing so, so sure as God lives.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells:
	Mrs. President, Ladies and Gentlemen:
I am very much pleased to meet with so
many of my sisters on this momentous oc-
casion. I love woman: it is one of my sen-
timents; and I am proud to say that among
the women of the Latter-day Saints there
are as true and noble women as can be
found anywhere else in the world, with de-
sires and aims as lofty and as pure. Al-
though we are charged with nearly every-
thing that it is possible for our sex to be ac-
cused of, yet we feel we have those motives
within us that buoy us up and bear us above
the trials we have to endure.
	I intended to have written an address for
this meeting, but have been ill and unable
to do so, yet I thought I could not let this
opportunity pass without offering a few
words.
	I feel that we are in earnest; that the
time has come when we can no longer be
silent, as we are assailed, and that too by
our own sex, who, it seems, would, if pos-
sible, deprive us of the claim to wifehood
and motherhood, by destroying our most
sacred relations and crushing our most holy
affections. But they know not what they
do. Were they conscious of the conse-
quences were their undertakings to be suc-
cessful, they would cease their efforts and
shrink from the task.
	The Lord is with this people; this fact
has been plainly manifest. None, I think,
who are possessed of reason can question
that, whether our principles of religion are
true or not. We have already proclaimed
our wrongs and sufferings (brought about


[---]ough persecution) to the world; but
[-]ow we feel that we are called upon to do
[--] in a manner different from that we have
heretofore employed; and that, too, because
we have been attacked in a way we never
anticipated. We never thought that wo-
man could rise up against woman. Such a
thought was far indeed from my mind, and
I believe from the minds of the women of
Utah. Though I cherish no ill-feelings to-
wards those who have so greatly interested
themselves against this principle of our
faith, yet they oppose it and we must meet
it; and we intend to meet it with all the
energy and fortitude we possess, and it
will be "diamond cut diamond" rest as-
sured; proposing, of course, all measures
of peace and harmony, and adhering strictly
to the Constitution of our country; but let
it be known that we intend to defend our
institutions, and represent our own cause,
both at home and abroad, and let the world
know how much truth there is in those oft-
told tales of woe about the drown-trodden
Mormon women. Thank God there are a
few honorable people in the world, who are
not afraid to publish for the outcast and de-
spised women of Utah.
	Mrs. E. Thomas entertained the meeting
with one of her sweet songs, when the
closing prayer was offered by Mrs. Eliza-
beth Howard.


