Early Development of the Textile Art. Rose H. Widtsoe. The pages of history record, among many other things, to the honor of woman, that she played an important part in the discovery and the development of the art of making fabrics. The old saying that "necessity is the mother of invention" is truly applicable in her life. She had to feed, and clothe, and shelter her children; so, among primitive races, she was the inventor, the pioneer in many of the industries. Man has replaced her in modern manufacture, but to her is due the credit of discovering the first principles. She learned from nature what materials to use. She also got her ideas of form and design from the same great teacher. The debt we owe to her cannot be overestimated. Her hundreds of years of patient toil and invention have laid the basic principles for modern textile progress. To appreciate her share in primitive culture, we must remember the many hardships she endured, hardships of which the women of today cannot conceive. In attempting to trace the development of the great textile art, it is impossible to reach the beginning. As far back as the printed page in history will carry us, there are evidences of a well developed industry. A study of prehistoric times, through dusty relics and specimens of textiles that have been preserved in various ways, gives evidence that this industry could yet be traced many ages in the distant past. We must be content with the reasoning set forth, that a man felt the need of something more than the food and shelter provided by nature, he doubtless began to devise implements, clothing and habitations of some sort. The skins of animals and barks of trees first supplied his needs, but gradually he learned to make use of the reeds and grasses about him, and then the wool, flax and other fibers that nature provided. He wove these twigs and fibers into baskets, mats and cloth. It was customary among primitive people to bury with their dead weapons, tools and clothing, which they considered the person might need in his journey into the unknown world. Thousands of years later the graves of these prehistoric men have been opened, and the things buried with them have come to light, giving much valuable information concerning the early art of making fabrics. Among these tools are spindles, shuttles, crude looms, combs and other implements used in spinning and weaving. In some localities, due to certain peculiar conditions of climate or soil, not only stone and wooden implements have been preserved, but also pottery, basketry, and even textile fabrics have been found. In the tombs of ancient Egypt, where bodies were wrapped in cloth and then embalmed, textile fabrics four thousand years old have been discovered. In the graves of ancient Peru, where the dry, saline sands are excellent preservatives, graves have recently been opened, and among the relics were found many fabrics of cotton, silk, and wool, some of them embroidered with gold and silver thread, and many of them woven into intricate patterns. Specimens of these fabrics are to be seen in the Museum of Natural History, New York. The tools used by the Peruvians were very simple, as were also their methods of working. We do not have to depend upon history or upon relics for our knowledge of the beginnings of the textile industry. We have among us primitive peoples, who are at the same stage of development as were our ancestors thousands of years ago when handling reeds or rushes and spinning various threads from plant and animal fibers. The primitive peoples of today have preserved the methods of their ancestors and have been influenced very little by the progress of civilization. The Eskimo, the American Indian, and the South Sea Islander, for example, and other natural forms, furnish them with the materials for their simple products. They, when thus kept close to nature, develop artistic instincts and often show remarkable skill in their work. They know how to take advantage of the natural qualities of their materials, and work them into shapes and designs that are beautiful for their simplicity and suitability to purpose. The Peruvian Indians skillfully wove their cotton and wool into beautiful fabrics, and made them into garments that were both artistic and serviceable. They learned to use dyes made from native plants, and produced beautiful and harmonious colors. They knew how to work different colored threads carefully together, and make patterns that were skillfully woven to produce intricate geometric figures. They also learned to embroider, using threads of gold and silver, and to decorate their fabrics with beads and feathers. The Navajo Indians became famous for their beautiful blankets, which were made from the wool of their sheep, and were woven in striking patterns and colors. Whether we have passed through just the stage of development in which we find the Eskimo, the American Indian, and the 
 South Sea Islander, may be a matter of conjecture, but most probably our ancestors, thousands of years ago, carried on their arts and industries in a somewhat similar manner, and the study of these primitive peoples serves to give us the stages in the development of the higher forms of industry. There are few people to be found today who are entirely unaffected by modern civilization, and the commercial spirit which follows in its train. An example of this is found in the Navajo Indian. His blankets have been one of our best examples of a simple and beautiful art; the art of a people untutored in the modern theories of color and design, the product of the individual influenced only by tradition. Unfortunately the modern curiosity hunter has brought the Navajo too much before the public eye. His art has become commercialized, and the demand for his wares has caused him to produce faster than he can produce well. He has borrowed from the white man colors which he does not know how to use. He works now for the public rather than for himself. The consequence is that it is difficult to find the true Navajo blanket. So it is with other people in other parts of the world; and as civilization spreads, it will not be long before the primitive man, uninfluenced by modern times and conditions, will be a creature of the past, and his art will be a lost art. Coming close to home, we have a textile industry that is interesting, because of its simplicity and its strength; the industry of our great grandmothers. In early days, the loom was a common possession of every home, and every housewife was her own producer. The fabrics woven were excellent woolens and linens, representing the honest efforts of a frugal, home-loving people. These fabrics are often beautiful — but beautiful because of their firm and interesting texture, the simplicity of design and color-scheme, and above all, the excellency of the materials. No adulterations were found in these home-made, hand-made fabrics. Examples of such fabrics are found in the homespun cloths, blankets, the blue and white bed-covers, and the linen sheets that remain to this day to tell their own story. The rush of modern civilization is fast forcing this home industry out of existence. The wonderful machine-made fabrics of today are, of course, the most important. Hand-made fabrics cannot compete with machine-made goods, nor do we desire this. But there is an individuality of taste in hand-made goods which is lacking in machine goods. For this reason, we should encourage a certain amount of handwork, and not allow this splendid industry to die out entirely. Many who appreciate the value of true homespun are making a great effort to preserve what is left. Much credit is due to the Arts and Crafts Movement which is trying to popularize these homespun articles in the modern home.