Good Health. By Maud Baggarley. Good health is the main-spring of life. It makes the wheels of the world go 'round. Deformed and afflicted persons, and those in bad health have performed miracles of valor, and have achieved their great purposes by sheer will-power alone, thus demonstrating the superiority of mind over matter. But these are exceptions to the general rule. Poor health ordinarily makes of a man a grouch, a growl, or a pessimist; it fetters the individual and keeps his nose to the grindstone and his eyes on the ground, instead of on the stars. The purpose of earthly existence is service; service to God and to the race. He serves best who is truest to himself. And he who is truest to himself looks well to the laws that promote health, that his body may be strong, his brain clear and active. In order to attain health, one must first have a definite idea as to what constitutes health. It has been called: "the perfect circulation of pure blood in a sound organism." In other words, the blood must pass rapidly, without hindrance to every part of a body free from disease. In order to possess a sound body, one must not only know the laws of health, but must obey them. The first requisite of health is pure blood. To obtain pure blood, it is necessary to breathe clean, uncontaminated air; eat simple, easily-digested food, eliminate the waste products from the body; exercise; rest; sleep; and bathe often. Next to an adequate supply of fresh air is the elimination of waste. Many channels for this purpose have been provided. Each of them is of almost equal importance. These are the lungs, the skin, the bowels and the kidneys. The lungs must be unhampered by tight clothing, and fully developed by deep breathing. The pores of the skin (often called the third lung) must be kept open by frequent bathing, rubbing, exercise, and change of clothing. The bowels must perform their function daily. As a fish lives in water, so man lives in air, and he should see to it that his element is habitable, which it often is not. Many who cannot and will not tolerate visible dirt, take quite kindly to it when unseen, on the principle of "out of sight, out of mind." Then guard your health, for, "the best things are nearest, breath in your nostrils, flowers at your feet, the path of God just before you." Promote your health that you may walk upright as a god in the sun.