Home Gardening for Women. The success of our gardening depends a great deal on the amount of brains used in the preparation therefor. Of course we must have climate, good seeds, proper soil conditions, cultivation; all are indispensable adjuncts to the successful production, either of flowers or vegetables. We have received most encouraging reports from many stakes and wards, as to their success in applying the gardening methods outlined in last year's Bulletin lessons, and while we are only giving the lessons in a suggestive form this year, we do urge our sisters to try as far as practicable to use our suggestions. We will be pleased to record results mailed to us. In the study of plant life, and in the applying of our knowledge in a practical way, we are learning beautiful facts about our Heavenly Father and His wonderful creative powers. For after all, "Paul may plant and Apollos may water, but God giveth the increase." Tools. Now is the time for you to look after the tools; see if the hoe is rusty and dull or without a handle; and see if your digging fork, rakes, spades, etc., are ready for the first bright sunny days of spring, when the fever for outdoor work tempts you to begin your work for spring gardening; for tools are too often not ready, and are in a scattered condition. Many idle hours are spent by the men folk during the winter months, when all implements used in gardening and farming could be repaired and made ready for use when needed. A sufficient equipment of garden tools is a factor in successful gardening, and having cheap, half-bent tools to work with is the poorest sort of economy. It pays to buy good implements and then to take good care of them. Good Use for Old Boxes. Garden frames may be made from old fruit or cracker boxes. Those too deep should be cut in half, remove bottom, and cover the top of the box with a cloth, or make a frame suitable for holding a window pane of glass. These boxes are inexpensive, and serve as a cover for forcing a few early cucumbers, tomatoes, and pepper plants. Early Plants for Use in Salads. By preparing a fine, light, sandy loam in pots or window boxes, placing them in warm, sunny windows, you will be able to have fresh pepper cress, parsley and small lettuce leaves in a few weeks, ready for use. Seeds should be sown and just lightly 
 covered, kept moist, and have plenty of sunlight, a glass placed in the box or pot assists wonderfully in securing rapid growth. Perennial Flowers. Possibly those not familiar with gardening will be more successful with the perennial flowers. A few choice kinds well cultivated, with good soil will repay you ten-fold, with almost everlasting blooming. Note. — We recommend the Porter-Walton Mail Order House for seeds, flowers, and bulbs, 522, 536 South Third West Street, Salt Lake City, to our readers who are gardeners and lovers of flowers.