Notes from the Field. Mrs. Emily M. Shurtliff who recently died and who was for so long the President and beloved leader of the women of Ogden stake, received one of the most beautiful funerals, as a tribute from her fellow workers in Ogden, that has ever been given to a woman of this people. The funeral was held on Sunday, January 10, in the Ogden Tabernacle. The Tabernacle was crowded to the doors; the floral tributes were lavish and exquisitely beautiful; the music was indeed heavenly in sentiment and expression; remarks made by the various speakers were eloquent of the affection in which Sister Shurtliff was held by her fellow workers; and throughout all breathed the deep note of reverence and esteem for President Lewis W. Shurtliff who was the sorrowing husband left bereaved by this burial. Above all, the respect and reverence which had always been shown by Sister Shurtliff and her associates to her honored and revered husband and to the priesthood was dwelt upon by the speakers. President Joseph F. Smith, with a portion of his family, went up from Salt Lake City to the funeral, and was a speaker on this occasion. He was accompanied by Mrs. Sarah R. Smith and Mrs. Edna L. Smith; Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley and Mrs. Susa Young Gates were with this party, representing the General Board of the Relief Society. President Smith dwelt upon the salvation which is the promise of all who die as did this good woman — faithful to the last. President Smith expressed his sympathy for the family whose blood, he said, had been mingled with his, through marriage, and referring to the life of the deceased, as a faithful and true wife, a devoted mother and a faithful member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, he spoke along doctrinal lines. "The Gospel," he said, "was the power of God unto salvation and people come into the world subject to its laws." Continuing, the President declared that the laws of the Gospel were instituted before the earth was created and that they were revealed to the world in the present dispensation by the Prophet Joseph Smith. He also spoke of the mission of Jesus Christ, referring to baptism by immersion as having been instituted by him and that obedience to this law was necessary to salvation. The question of divine authority was also touched upon by President Smith and this authority, he said, could only be divine when used in righteousness. "Man," he continued, "can take nothing from this world except what he has gained through divine NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 157 truth or what has been given him by divine authority. No man is perfect, but the germ of perfection is in every person waiting to be developed." In conclusion, he gave a remarkable exposition of the meaning of the "Brotherhood of Man," saying that relationship must be gauged by the degree of virtue among men and that anyone who lived according to the laws of God would be more closely related to Him than one of his own children who had transgressed the law. The following speakers also dwelt upon the virtues of the deceased, and for President Shurtliff and the family: Elder W. L. Stewart, President Charles F. Middleton, President John Watson, Dr. Edward I. Rich, Susa Young Gates, David O. McKay. The musical numbers were beautiful and were as follows: First, "I Know that My Redeemer Lives," by Walter Stephens and the Ogden Tabernacle Choir; "O, My Father," by the choir. The choir also, with Mrs. Myrtle B. Higley as soloist, sang "One Sweetly, Solemn Thought" and "In the Time of Roses." As the mourners passed out of the church Organist Sam F. Whitaker played "The Death of Ase" from the "Peer Gynt" suite, by Grieg. Mrs. Belle Ross read a touching tribute in verse, to the honored dead, composed by Mrs. Martha Burton Cooley. OUR HONORED DEAD. The death of Sister Marinda Black of Grayson Ward, was deeply mourned by all her associates. Resolutions of respect and tributes to her memory were prepared by her loving associates. We join with spirit in honoring her memory. RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE CONFERENCES. The Relief Society will hold stake conferences this year during the months of May, June, and July, and November, in compliance with the plan outlined by the Correlation Committee, and approved by the authorities of the Church. The conferences in May, June, and July will be held in connection with the stake quarterly conferences, and will be for all stakes, except the following: Alpine, Box Elder, Cache, Davis, Ensign, Granite, Jordan, Bear River, Liberty, North Weber, Ogden, Pioneer, Salt Lake, Utah, Weber, and Nebo. These latter will be held in November. Further particulars will be furnished, as soon as all details are arranged.