[Vol31 | February 1944 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: General Secretary-Treasurer Vera W. Pohlman]
Vera  White  Pohlmaiiy  General  Secretary-Treasurer 
THIS  section  of  the  Magazine  is  reserved  for  narrative  reports  and  pictures  of  Relief 
Society  activities  in  the  stakes  and  missions.  Its  purpose  is  threefold:  (i)  to  provide 
a  medium  for  the  exchange  of  ideas  and  methods  for  conducting  Relief  Society  work 
which  have  proved  successful  in  some  organizations  and  which  may  be  helpful  and  stimu- 
lating to  others;  (2)  to  recognize  outstanding  or  unique  accomplishments  of  Relief  So- 
ciety organizations;  (3)  to  note  the  progress  of  Relief  Society  work  in  various 
parts  of  the  world.  It  is  recognized  that  personal  accounts  of  individuals  who  have 
long  served  Relief  Society,  or  who  have  otherwise  distinguished  themselves,  are  always 
of  great  interest,  but  the  space  available  for  "Notes  from  the  Field"  is  so  limited  in 
relation  to  the  number  of  stakes  and  missions  that  it  must  be  reserved  for  reports  on 
the  work  of  the  organization  rather  than  of  individuals. 
Pictures  which  are  submitted  for  publication  can  be  used  only  if  they  are  clear  and 
distinct  and  will  make  good  cuts  for  reproduction.  Pictures  must  be  accompanied  by 
informative  narrative  accounts  of  the  events  or  activities  to  which  they  pertain. 
Wards  desiring  to  submit  reports  for  publication  in  "Notes  from  the  Field"  are  re- 
quested to  send  them  through  their  respective  stake  Relief  Societies.  It  often  happens 
that  one  or  two  wards  in  a  stake  will  send  reports  on  special  activities  which  are  being 
conducted  on  a  stake-wide  basis,  and  in  such  instances  it  would  be  to  the  advantage  of 
the  stake  to  have  the  report  cover  the  entire  activity  in  the  same  issue  of  the  Magazine 
with  all  participating  wards  represented. 
All  narrative  material  should  bear  the  date  of  submittal,  and  all  references  to  certain 
seasons  or  special  occasions  should  be  identified  by  the  correct  dates.  Similarly,  all  pic- 
tures should  have  both  date  and  identification  on  the  reverse.  Material  submitted  for 
"Notes  from  the  Field"  is  to  be  addressed  to  the  General  Secretary-Treasurer. 
SPECIAL  RELIEF  SOCIETY  PROGRAMS 
I 
N  1942,  the  First  Presidency  desig-  first  of  these  Church-wide  Fast  Day 
nated  the  evening  meeting  of  Fast  evenings  in  March,  v^hich  in  1943  oc- 
Sundays  for  use  by  the  auxiliary  or-  curred  March  7.  This  suggestive  pro- 
ganizations.    By   subsequent  agree-  gram,  which  was  used  by  hundreds 
ment  among  the  auxiliaries,  the  Re-  of  local  Relief  Societies,  was  entitled 
lief  Society  was  assigned   the   Fast  "America,  a  Christian  Nation."    Its 
Day  evenings  in  March  and  Novem-  objective  was  to  show  that  the  cause 
ber.    The  General  Board  designated  of  freedom  is  the  cause  of  Christ, 
the  November  meeting  as  the  time  and  its  presentation  was  in  honor  of 
for  annual  ward  Relief  Society  con-  ward  members  in  the  armed  services, 
ferences,  and  the   March    meeting,  their  parents,  wives,  and  children, 
coming  near  the  time  of  the  Society's  Also  in  1942,  the   First   Presidency 
anniversary,  for  special  commemora-  designated    extra  sessions    of   stake 
tive  programs.    The  General  Board  quarterly  conferences  for  the  use  of 
issued  a  suggestive  program  for  the  auxiliaries,  where  desired.    In  both 
Page  104

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD  105 
1942  and  1943,  the  Relief  Society  ''We  thank  the  General  Board  for 
was  assigned  such    sessions    during  the  very  fine  program  which  was  out- 
the  third  quarter,  and  the  General  lined  in  the  Magazine  to   be   used 
Board  issued  suggestive  programs.  Sunday,    March  7.     Although    the 
Following  are  reports  on  some  of  Magazines  were  very  late  in  getting 
the  ward  programs  of  March  7,  1943,  to  us,  leaving  us  just  a  week  to  pre- 
and  stake  programs  of  the  third  pare  the  program,  we  changed  our 
quarter,  1943.  entire  program  and  gave  the  suggest- 
ed one  which  was  a  very  great  suc- 
Juah  Stake  (Utah)  cess.  We  had  a  much  larger  attend- 
PHLOE  N.  BAILEY,  Relief  So-  ance  than  usual  and  we  received 
ciety  president  of  the  Juab  Stake,  many  fine  compliments.  We  hope 
reported  the  success  of  the  Relief  we  may  have  more  programs  out- 
Society  Sunday  evening  program  in  lined  for  us." 
the  wards  of  this  stake.  She  said: 
'The  program  brought  people  into  Righy  Stake  (Idaho) 
the  Church  who  hadn't  attended  for  CTELLA  F.  BROSSARD,  stake 
years.  The  theme  reflected  the  true  *^  secretary-treasurer,  stated:  ''We 
spirit  of  patriotism,  and  as  a  stake  wish  to  express  our  appreciation  in 
Relief  Society  we  wish  to  commend  behalf  of  the  wards  for  the  excellent 
the  General  Board  for  the  keen  vi-  outline  of  the  program  given  to  us 
sion  and  spiritual  insight  which  are  in  the  Magazine  for  March  7.  Every 
manifest  in  the  program."  ward  in  our  stake  used  the  outline 
This  stake  is  to  be   commended  and  carried  out  the  program  success- 
for  the  advance  publicity  and  effici-  fully." 
ent  management  of  these  programs. 
Notice  that  this  patriotic  program  South  Davis  Stake  (Utah) 
would  be  presented  in  each  ward  of  TZATE  H.  ZESIGER  expressed  the 
the  stake  was  given  prominent  space  appreciation  of  parents  for  the 
in  the  local  newspaper  which  also  program  in  the  following  comments: 
listed  the  program  in  detail.  The  "Sunday  evening,  March  7, 1943,  the 
Nephi  Ward  mailed  a  special  invita-  Relief  Society  of  Bountiful  Third 
tion  to  the  parents  and  wives  of  Ward  put  on  a  splendid  program 
service  men  and  requested  a  picture  honoring  the  parents  and  families  of 
of  the  boys  for  display  during  the  our  boys  in  the  service.  We  parents 
program.  A  badge  of  red,  white,  do  appreciate  and  thank  the  spon- 
and  blue  ribbon  with  one  star  repre-  sors  of  such  an  idea  from  the  bottom 
sen  ting  each  person  in  the  service  of  our  hearts.  I  myself  am  the  moth- 
was  presented  to  the  parents  and  er  of  an  army  air  cadet  and  felt  the 
wives  of  the  service  boys.  Both  the  program  was  not  sad  but  very  inspir- 
Nephi  and  the  North  and  South  ing  and  one  which  cheers  and  com- 
Wards  each  distributed  mimeo-  forts  our  hearts  and  makes  us  feel 
graphed  programs  at  the  door.  proud  of  our  boys  in  service." 
San  Fernando  Stake  (California)  East  Central  States  Mission 
gLSIE  WEBER,  president  of  the  OELLE  C.  JENSEN,  recently  re- 
Glendale   West   Ward,    wrote:  leased  president  of  the  Relief  So-

106 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY  1944 
CAST  OF  PATRIOTIC  PAGEANT,  "AMERICA,  THE  LAND  OF  PROMISE," 
PRESENTED  BY  THE  SANDY  FIRST  WARD  RELIEF  SOCIETY, 
MT.  JORDAN  STAKE,  MARCH  7,  1943 
cieties  of  this  mission,  reported  April 
1,  1943,  as  follows:  "I  want  to  let 
you  know  how  well  the  program 
that  was  outlined  in  the  Relief  So- 
ciety Magazine  for  March  7  was  put 
on  by  the  organizations  here  in  the 
East  Central  States  Mission.  Every- 
one seemed  to  think  that  it  was  very 
timely  and  fitting.  We  have  just  re- 
turned from  visiting  some  of  the 
branches  on  the  East  Coast  and  ev- 
ery one  commented  about  this  meet- 
ing. I  was  fortunate  enough  to  attend 
the  one  held  here  in  the  Louisville 
Branch  and  it  was  really  thrilling. 
Everything  was  carried  out  in  a  fine, 
dignified  way,  and  the  spirit  of  the 
occasion  seemed  to  be  present  with 
everyone.  We  had  some  fine  young 
servicemen  take  part  on  the  program. 
We  hope  that  we  will  have  more  out- 
lined services  for  us.   The  Relief  So- 
ciety organizations  seem  to  enjoy 
trying  to  put  on  something  of  this 
kind. 
''Our  organizations  are  doing 
splendid  work,  although  many  are 
unable  to  attend  on  account  of  the 
gas  situation,  for  even  in  organized 
branches  there  are  members  living 
quite  a  distance  from  the  churches 
or  halls.  I  am  enclosing  a  sample 
of  the  program  and  a  newspaper 
clipping  from  one  of  the  branches." 
Mt  Jordan  Stake  (Utah) 
'pHE  Sandy  First  Ward  carried 
out  the  suggested  theme  of  the 
March  7  program  in  honor  of  the 
members  of  this  ward  in  the  service 
of  their  country,  but  did  so  by  means 
of  an  original  patriotic  pageant, 
"America,  the  Land  of  Promise," 
written  by  Eileen  R.  Dunyon,  social