[Vol31 | February 1944 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Bible]

Litera ture The Bible as Literature Lesson 8?Bible Prophecy Tuesday, May 16, 1944 ONE type of literature in which the Chosen People excelled was the literature of prophecy. Indeed, this kind of literature is to be found almost exclusively in their writings.
There it rises to a distinctive place in literary expressions of intense religious devotion and emotion.
They deal fearlessly with vital problems of life, warning against evil, pleading for righteousness, and tevealing, in no uncertain terms, things to come. A clearer understanding of this splendid prophetic literature will be obtained as one gets a plainer view of these prophets of old. "They were not mere foretellers," President B. H.
Roberts once told a group of missionaries, "they were rather forthtellers, giving forth the word of God to the people." It happened, of course, that these holy men would at times look ahead and forewarn of days to come. Today, as we read some of their God-inspired prophecies, we marvel at the exactness of their visions of the future. Yet this was only one vital phase of their great work.
Outstanding prophets of Old Testament times might well have been called religious statesmen.
They played major roles not only in the theocratic government of earlier Israel, but even after it became a kingdom.
Think here of Samuel, the kingmaker; of Nathan, who bearded David in the throne room and rebuked him for his sins; of Elijah before Ahab and Jezebel and the priests of Baal. Fearlessly, these prophets of God faced sinners from the king down to the lowest of his subjects, and interpreted God's word and will.
These earlier prophets used, however, mainly the spoken word; they were not creators of written prophecy, as were outstanding ones who came later.
Those who have left us the Books of Prophecy found in the Bible are commonly called the Major and the Minor Prophets.
These terms refer to the quantity, not the quality of their works. Ezekiel, Jeremiah, Isaiah wrote rather extensively; Amos, Hosea, Micah, and other prophets have left us comparatively brief books of prophecy. The role of all of these men of God was essentially the same: to interpret, or speak for God to his people.
Their words of truth and light, though born out of and applying to certain social and political situations of their own times, still ring with force and meaning in our own lives today. As with the Bible lyric and the Bible oration, the literature of Prophecy may be more clearly grasped in its historical setting. We shall be able to appreciate Jeremiah's words of woe better, for example, if we remember that this frank and fearless man of God wrote when Judah was in travail, Her people were harrassed by Egypt and Babylon, and her leaders were making unholy alliances, as Jeremiah felt, that would lead his people into terrible troubles.
Under the inspiration of God, he prophesied to King Zedekiah that Babylon would overcome the Kingdom of Judah, and its inhabitants would be smitten with the sword and with pestilence. Finally, Zedekiah himself would be taken and Jerusalem burned?this because the people had forsaken God. It was during these same years that the prophet Lehi was warning the Jews to cease their sins or the judgment of God would be visited upon them. But the evil folk hissed and stoned their Prophets; and Lehi, to escape the wrath that he knew was coming, fled with his family into the wilder. Ness. God's word was fulfilled.
Judah was ravished and her leaders taken into captivity. The common folk, left without spiritual guidance, intermarried with the idolatrous peoples about them, and became the later despised Samaritans. The Promised Land, with its cities laid waste, its temple destroyed, was only a realm of memories. Yet Over it all shone the star of hope?kept burning by a Book of Prophecy. Isaiah, son of Amoz, years before had foreseen the threatening calamities, and had people: pleaded with his Wash ye, make you clean; put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes; cease to do evil; Learn to do well; seek judgment, relieve the oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead for the widow.
Come now, and let us reason together, saith the Lord: though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow... If ye be willing and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land: but if ye refuse and rebel, ye shall be devoured with the sword: for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it (Isa, 1:16-20). The prophet continues, lamenting the evil that has befallen the people, the harlotry and the murdering, the mingling of princes with thieves, the bribery and injustice. Yet, he foresees the time when "Zion shall be redeemed and they that forsake the Lord shall be consumed."
Then he breaks forth into this divine prophecy: And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the moun. Tains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. And he shall judge among the nations, and shall rebuke many people: and they shall beat their swords into ploughshares, and their spears into pruninghooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more (Isa. 2:2-4), How devoutly millions on earth are praying today for the consummation of this prophecy in its fullness. It is utterances such as this that make of Isaiah one of the most beloved of the Prophets.
Though he 
 ?FEBRUARY 1944 LESSON DEPARTMENT suffered through the trials that came and would his People and the world, yet he looked through the He saw clearly would come "pon nations that mock And I will Punish the worlg for their evil, and the Wicked for their iniquity; and I will cause ? ? atrogancy of the Proud to He Pronounced doom on Babylon and Syria, and other nations that the transgression thereof shal] be heavy UPON it" words tragically applicable today. Everlasting: they shall obtain Sorrow and sighing Sa. 35:1, 10, 119
Rhapsody is the word used by Doctor Moulton to Suggest the blend drama to lift lofty thought and high hope before distressed, suffering souls. Ed spirit, the Prophet sees beyond the darkness and g | spited, he visions the Comfort Y?, comfort ye my people, saith your God. - Prepare ye the way of the Lord, ake Straight in the desert a highway for our God.
Every valley shall be exalted, And every mountain and hill shall be made low: And the Slory of the Lord shall be red, stubble; the fire shal] burn them."
Praise is Ziven to Cyrus, the Per.
Sian king, who, conquering Babylon, has liberated the captive Jews to go Awake, awake; put on thy Strength, O Zion; ut on thy beautiful garments, O Jerusa. Lem, the holy city (Isa. 52:1), How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace (Isa. 52:7).
Following these lyric outbursts of rejoicing, again God speaks? Behold, my servant shall prosper, he shall be exalted and lifted up, and shall be very high. And after this announcement come the well-known lines: Who hath believed that which we have heard? And to whom hath the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him as a tender plant, And as a root out of a dry ground. He was despised, and rejected of men; A man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief: Surely he hath borne our griefs, And carried our sorrows: But he was wounded for our transgressions, He was bruised for our iniquities: The chastisement of our peace was upon him; And with his stripes we are healed. He was oppressed, Yet he humbled himself, And opened not his mouth: As a lamb that is led to the slaughter, And as a sheep that before her shearers is dumb; Yea, he opened not his mouth. And they made his grave with the wicked, And with the rich in his death. Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him; He hath put him to grief. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant make many righteous: And he shall bear their iniquities.
Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great??Moulton, The Modern Reader's Bible, pp. 528-529.
Here we come to the heart of all the prophecies of Isaiah.. His great work was to vision for his people the Redeemer of Israel. He clarified for his people their cherished dream of a Messiah.
Hundreds of years before Jesus of Nazareth came to earth, this inspired prophet pictured His divine character and work among men with startling accuracy. On the Brass Plates which Lehi, through the courageous efforts of his son Nephi, obtained from Laban, were these sacred prophecies of Isaiah of a Christ that would come and did come, not only to the Jews, but to the descendants of Lehi in a faraway New World. Isaiah's divine words have rung with truth and uplift down the ages: they are filled with sacred meaning for us today.
Discussion and Activities 1. In "The Cotter's Saturday Night" by Robert Burns are these picturesque lines, portraying Bible reading at the poet's own boyhood home: The priest-like father reads the sacred page, How Abram was a friend of God on high: Or Job's pathetic plaint, and wailing cry; Or rapt Isaiah's wild, seraphic fire; Or other holy-Seers that tune the sacred lyre! In light of your recent studies on Bible literature, explain what is meant by each of the last three lines. 2. (a) What in its broad sense is implied by the word prophet? (b) Cite an instance from the Bible showing how these men of God in trying to hold rulers to righteousness were prophets. 3. Why was it necessary to use the term, "rhapsody," to suggest the spirit and content of Isaiah's portrayal of Zion Redeemed? 4. (a) Be ready to read aloud a stanza or lines from some lyric that is woven into the Rhapsody of Zion 
 ?FEBRUARY 1944 LESSON DEPARTMENT Redeemed (Isaiah Chap. 4o to end of book). (b) What sacred song or anthem has been created from musically beautiful lines in Isaiah? 5. (a) What lines from this Master Book of Prophecy voice the hope of a Messiah, or Redeemer? (b) Read aloud all of the poem picturing the Christ to come, in Isaiah 53. 6. (a) How were the prophecies of Isaiah preserved for the descendants of 121
Lehi? (b) Why are some of these divine prophecies appropriately inwoven with the Book of Mormon? (c) What was the sacred outcome of these prophecies and those of the Nephite prophets for the saints of earlier days on this continent? 7. Why should we all keep the inspired words of our prophets of old as well as our present-day prophets close to our hearts?