VOL. 9.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1880.		No. 6.﻿


For the EXPONENT:
ADDRESSED TO G. K.

ON OUR FIRST BAPTISMAL ANNIVERSARY.

Hail! my Sister!—ever dear,
Hail! my Sister of a year!—
Through God's Spirit Sister mine,
By my spirit Sister thine!

God of love! and God of us
Father of the universe!
Look upon the compact--we
Sealed by covenant with thee!
Let thy blessing on it rest,
For its sake may we be blest!
We desire to do thy wil!,
Thro' good report and more—thro' ill;
Help us ever to obey
Thy righteous laws from day to day.

Came we not from worlds afar
Where thou wert our guiding star?
Came we not with willing mind,
Forgetting all we left behind?
Came we not to do a work
Which none but coward hearts will shirk?
Came we not to build, and plant
Land bestowed by God's own "grant."
Came we not to plant the vine
For the Sacramental wine?—
Came we not the seed to spread
For the Sacramental bread?—
Came we not with joy to gain
A new and everlasting name?
Came we not to win our dead
Through the blood of Christ our head?
Came we not to gain a crown
By a cross—by thee laid down?
Came we not to rule and reign
O'er the subjects we might gain?
Came we not with willing hands
To obey all thy commands?
Came we not all this to do
And a thousand others too?
Father! we are ever thine
Through the changing scenes of time!
Keep us faithful unto thee,
Such our souls desire to be!
Bless us every step we take,
Love us for thy mercy's sake;
Keep us faithful to the end,
Father! God! Redeemer, Friend!
						HANNAH T. KING.
Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]

AN ADDRESS

DELIVERED BY MRS. A. M. ROMNEY.

		ST. GEORGE,  July 24th, 1880.
	Brethren and Sisters: It is with pride that
I rise to speak in behalf of my young sisters of
the Y. L. M. I. A., of St., George. Not because
I feel able to properly and interestingly repre-
sent them but because I love their Society; ad-
mire their interested labors in regard to the
onward progress of these latter times, their
virtues, and their Love of Truth.
	It is now some four years since our first As-
sociation was organized with Miss E. A. Snow,as
President, and Elida Snow, Hannah Fawcette,
A. M. Woodbury, Elizebeth Starr, Juie Ivins,
Margret Jarvis and Amelia Crosby, as Counse-
lors; and Sister Artimissa Snow, Superinten-
dent. 
	This continued for about one year; and was
attended with considerable sucess. We edited
a paper called "The Young Lady's Diadem,"

[Column 2]

which was a source of imformation; and tended
towards general improvement.
	This paper contains some of the first efforts
in composition of many of our Young Sisters;
some of whom are now honorable wives and
happy mothers; who look back with pleasure to
their associations with the first Improve-
ment Association organized in St. George for
Young Ladies.
	When we allow our thoughts to wander back
to those days, how well we remember the nerv-
ous trepidation, the heart beating, the nervous-
ness, the burning cheek, the fearfulness of each
other we displayed, in making our first efforts
in speech making, or listening to the editress
read our first essays: and, Oh dear! how we did
feel when we ourselves had to rise on our feet,
and read the paper, we had had the honor to
superintend! how our limbs did tremble! how
the perspiration did ooze from our heated
temples! how something would rise up in our
throats, that seemed determined to choke or
make us dumb? and, when we did find utter-
ance, how strange our voices sounded in our
ears, and how thankful, yes, how very thankful,
we were, when, "Our heavy task was o'er."
No doubt my hearers have all, to a greater or
less extent, experienced these very feelings
sometime in their early youth, and first appear-
ance before the public.
	Soon after our Stake was organized, our As-
sociation was divided into four branches. One
in each ward. And still later a stake organ-
ization was effected with our worthy sister, E.
Snow Ivins, as President; Mary G. Whitehead
and A. S. Segmiller, as Counselors. The good
that these associations have accomplished, will
be felt in society in years that are yet far in the 
future; when the young sisters shall have become
mothers of worthy sons and daughters; whose
influence will be felt in every land where the
Gospel can be preached. And the youth, who
go abroad to preach the Gospel, while referring
with pride to their dear mothers at home, will
be able to say, my mother always attended the
Y. L. M. I. A., where she was taught to honor
God, and attained a high state of moral cul-
ture. 
	My Young Sisters, much has already been
accomplished, but there is a wide field for im-
provement before us. Improvement of our-
selves; and O! how useful we may be in sus-
taining, aiding and encouraging others to im-
prove. We should prize, virtue, as the grand
acme of our lives. Our honor should be more
precious to us than fine jewels, or the wealth
of the Indies. We should always be the ex-
ponents of truth: both in precept and by our
example. We should never be the slaves of
fashion, especially slaves to the foolish fashions
that come from "Old Babylon." No sisters,
our faith, the faith for which our honored sis-
ters and beloved mothers have suffered so much,
proclaims against this evil of the age. Slaves to
fashion! Let it be the object of our lives, to rise
above the evils that are leading the children of
men to perdition. That the young ladies of
the M. I. A., may rise above these things, and
become examples in Israel,and shining lights to
the world, standing side by side, with their
fathers, brothers, husbands and sons, as expon-
ents of the glorious effects of the true Gospel
upon a fallen generation: being as determined
to maintain all that is virtuous, honorable and
Godlike in its nature, as was Leonidas and his
band in defending their nation. And although
our place is not the battle field nor the pulpit,

[Column 3]

our influence may be used gently, and for great
good around the fireside. There we can instil
true priuciples into the mind of the prattling
child, and use an influence in forming the char-
acter of Zion's future greatness.
	In conclusion, we feel to congratulate all up-
on the return of this, another anniversary of
our entrance into these peaceful vales;  where
peace prevails! Where the nucleus of a great
people exists. And may our goodness increase,
as our land becomes more thickly inhabited.
That joy, peace and good will from man and
woman may flow from heart to heart, until a
bond of brotherhood and sisterly feeling exists
throughout this land which "Is choice above
all other lands:" and woman enjoys her proper
sphere, as the helpmeet of man. And men's
good judgment will cause them to seek a wife,
from the growing ranks of the, Y. L. M. I. As-
sociation.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	GENERAL Grant will visit Boston the last of
September. He is to be the guest of the Mid-
dlesex Club. At the reception and banquet
to be given in his honor, it is expected all the
New England governors and other men of
rank and influence will be assembled.

	GEORGE Bancroft will shortly complete his
history of the United States. He has been en-
gaged upon it fifty-five years. October 3d he
will have lived full four score years, and it is
said is "hale and handsome, fond of society,
and a familiar figure in it at Newport.

	THE movement for the higher education of
women at Oxford University has been so suc-
cessful that it is necessary to enlarge Somer-
ville Hall. A meeting conducted by Lord
Aberdare has just been held in London, for
the purpose of providing for the enlargement.
—Ex.

	A LETTER mailed fifty years ago was found,
while some repairs were being made in the
Paris Post Office, in one of the panels of the
wood-work, where it had stuck instead of slip-
ping into the box. Upon investigating it was
ascertained the writer had long since died, but
the person to whom it was addressed was still
alive, and the letter was forwarded to its desti-
nation.—Ex.

	THE ancients had queer ideas about mourn-
ing for the dead. The Egyptian women ran
through the streets crying, with their bosoms
exposed and their hair disordered. The Ly-
cians regarded mourning as unmanly, and they
compelled men who went into mourning to put
on female garments. In Greece, when a popu-
lar general died, the whole army cut off their
hair and the manes of their horses. At the
present day the Arabian women stain their
hands and feet with indigo, which they suffer
to remain eight days. They also carefully ab-
stain from milk during this time, on the ground
that its white color does not accord with the
gloom of their minds. In China, the mourn-
ing color is white. Mourning for a parent or
husband is required there by a law, under a
penalty of sixty blows and a year's banishment.
When the Emperor dies, all his subjects let
their hair grow for a hundred days. In the
Fiji Islands, on the tenth day of mourning,
the women scourge all the men except the
highest.—Ex.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

LIFE INCIDENTS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	After being gone from home about three
months, my father and brethren returned to
Kirtland, finding us well and enjoying the
comforts of life. He says: "I felt to rejoice in
the Lord that he had preserved my life through
many dangers seen and unseen, and brought
me to behold my family in peace and prosper-
ity. After being at home two weeks resting
myself, I concluded I had finished my mission
to which the Lord had called me, and I estab-
lished my Pottery, according to Joseph's coun-
sel, and continued about three months, until
cold weather came on. * * Calculating on
the opening of spring to commence on a larger
scale, thinking, as did Peter of old "I go a fish-
ing." I had got an idea similar to that which
the ancient Apostles had when the Savior was
taken from them, and they went a fishing, so I
went to the mechanic's shop."
	While my father was absent with Zion's
Camp, my mother and most of the sisters in
Kirtland were engaged in knitting and spin-
ning and making garments for those who were
laboring on the Temple. My mother toiled all
summer. She took a hundred pounds of wool
to spin on shares, which, with the assistance of
a girl, she spun in order to furnish clothing for
the brethren; and although she had the privi-
lege of keeping half the quantity of wool for
herself, as a recompense for her labor, she did
not reserve any, but gave it to those who were
engaged in building the Temple. When the
cloth was woven she got it dressed and cut and
made up into garments, and gave them for the
same purpose. She was a self-sacrificing wo-
man, always studying the comfort of others;
her happiness was never complete only when
adding to that of her friends, or relieving some
poor soul. Her kind acts caused many a heart
to rejoice, and to bless the hands which had
administered to their wants. I remember the
delicious crackers she used to make and send to
the sick in Kirtland. In making them she
was thought to excel, and people who had
heard about them would come from a distance
to hire her to make them for the sick in their
families. One reason for my remembering this
so well is that my brother and I had to pound
the dough, which was one of the main causes
for their being so tender and good, and not
being overly fond of work it became very irk-
some.
	She enjoyed the love and respect of every
one, and she never wanted for anything if her
circumstances were made known. She truly
enjoyed her religion. I was her youngest child
living; was hardly seven years old when my
father went East on his first mission, but I re-
member how happy she used to seem. Often
in the morning I would awaken and hear her
praying, and then she would go about her daily
duties singing so sweetly, it seemed to me as
though heaven and the angels were not very
far off. I used to think it impossible for me
to ever become a Saint. I looked upon my
parents as such, but thought that nothing short
of perfection could take us to heaven, which I
could never attain to, as I was so fond of fun
and amusement that I could not possibly give
them up, though I often had very serious re-
flections upon the subject, and used to think if
I could only know just a little time before I
was to die, I might be able to sober down and
prepare myself, In that early day we were
full of sectarian notions, and our ideas were
rather contracted. We had many traditions
which took time to overcome. The following
incident will show the effect of early teachings,
if they are not corrected:
	A day or two after our arrival in Kirtland,
my brother and I were sent to school with Mr.
Elijah Smith's two children, Mariette and Guy.
The girl was two or three years the eldest, and

[Column 2]

I was placed in her charge. Their parents were
Presbyterians. While returning from school
the first day, she told me every body who did
not join the Presbyterians would have to go to
H—ll, where they would burn forever in fire
and brimstone; this so frightened me that I
hastened home to tell my mother, who soon
quieted my fears. My Grandfather and Aunt
Fanny (as we always called her) had moved
up to Kirtland sometime previous to our going,
and,had made the acquaintance of Mr. Smith
and his maiden sister who were relatives of
mother Whitney, and had engaged her house
for us, Aunt Sarah Smith was bitterly opposed
to Mormonism, but she thought so much of
grandpa Murray and his wife that she con-
sented to our living in her house until Spring;
but during the winter they became just as
much attached to my parents, and I always
felt as welcome there as I did in my own
father's house. Mr. Smith's wife had been sick
some time previous to our coming there and
she died in a few days after, but just before her
departure she sent for my father to administer
to her. Aunt Sarah was very kind and indulg-
ent to children and I often stayed with them
nights, but we were not allowed to play out of 
doors after sundown Saturdays,as their Sabbath
commenced at that hour. My Grandfather
Murray was not a member of any church; he
believed the principles of Mormonism, and was
often upon the point of being baptized, when
he would see things in individuals who professed
to be Saints which would so try him he thought
he stood as good a chance to be saved as any
one. A more noble kind-hearted man never
lived, he was generous to a fault,and some were
unprincipled enough to take advantage of it.
He was very ingenious and could make anything
from a child's run-a-round to a Rocking horse
and carriage. He was never known to refuse
a favor, and he would often rise from his bed
when he was sick to go and do a job of work to
accommodate a neighbor. He was a man of but
few words and some called him an Infidel but
while visiting his children in the East, he was
taken sick, and before he died he expressed his
regret for not having obeyed the Gospel.
	Aunt Fanny was a true Saint, and was be-
loved by all who had the pleasure of her ac-
quaintance; her sympathies were always exer-
cised for the poor and distressed. She was
agreeable society for old or young and many
an evening her young acquaintances would
gather at her house to hear her sing or relate
the "Scottish Chiefs,""Children of the Abbey,"
and other like tales, which she could do as I
never heard any one else. She had been a
great reader; and I was named by her after
the Scottish Lady, Helen Mar.
	The Youngs were all gifted singers and when
they sang together they made a grand choir.
Aunt Fanny sang many beautiful songs, but
the one I loved best was "Oft in the stilly
night." She had a clear melodious voice, and
sang with such pathos, that all present would
be affected to tears. The words are so touch-
ing and so expressive that I often repeat them
as applicable to my own feelings.
	How fondly we cherish the memories of the
good old times, old friends. and old scenes,
which are endeared to us by recollections of
joys, griefs and pain. I dearly love to read old
letters and look over the old relics which so
remind me of other days, and I love to hear
the old songs we used to sing.
	I was about five years old when we moved
to Kirtland. I remember my native town, and
many things which happened while living
there are as fresh in my mind as are the scenes
in Missouri; but none are so dearly cherished
as are the sweet memories in and around dear
old Kirtland. It is true they were short, but I
look back to it as the spot where the happiest
days of my childhood were spent. When we
started for Missouri I was delighted, as children

[Column 3]

commonly are, at the prospect of a change, go-
ing to a new country, although some of my
little mates tried to frighten me with awful
tales about being eaten alive by the Missouri-
ans, who were cannibals with horns; but I was
not to be convinced, though I have heard that
there are people silly enough to believe similar
tales about the "Mormons;" our living there in
Missouri may have given us the name, but the
nearest that I ever saw were those called "Mor-
mon eaters." For years after we left Kirtland
I used to look back and pine for the old scenes
and school companions; those happy days were
lived over again and again in bright dreams,
and when I would awaken, the thought that I
should never again see the dear old hills and
wander over them and through the woods to
gather nuts and berries, and pick the wild
flowers and wintergreen which grew thickly
under our feet; nor the orchards, where in
early spring I used to go with hymn or story
book and sit alone and sing, or listen to the
little birds chirping and warbling as it seemed
their sweet songs of praise for the beautiful
spring, and I would feel perfectly happy; and
also the red schoolhouse, and the little brook
behind it, and the larger stream which ran near
our home, where the black walnut and maple
trees grew, and where in the spring we made
the luscious maple sugar, and in the fall we
gathered the nuts and apples for the winter—I
would think of all these things; and among
other pleasing recollections were our Sunday
Schools, where I used to love to go and recite
verses and whole chapters from the New Testa-
ment, and we received rewards in primers, etc.,
which I think were more highly appreciated in
those days than they are at the present time.
At ten o'clock we would form in line and march
with our teachers up to the Temple. The
thought that I could never see or enjoy them
again would make me sad, and sometimes I
would cry bitterly.
	I feel unwilling to close without tak-
ing a peep into my fathers Potter Shop
where we would stand and watch and
wonder how he ever learned to manage
the clay so skilfully as to turn out the numer-
ous and curiouly shaped jars and dishes of all
sorts and sizes. Occasionlly it was found nec-
essary to throw the lump back into the mill
where it had to be ground over as it had refus-
ed to be molded into a vessel of honor. It was
no wonder he so often made use of this parable.
I remember the cunning little dishes and toys he
would make for me which I generously divided
with my mates who were less fortunate. We
never wanted for any comfort as long as he
worked at his trade which was a very profitable
one, and previous to hearing "Mormonism" he
was carrying on a flourishing business in that
part of the country where he lived and was
in comfortable circumstances and highly res-
pected by the community, but when this Gospel
saluted the ears of my parents they gladly em-
braced it and sacrificed their good name and
all they had for the sake of everlasting riches.
Some wept over them and others treated them
with scorn. My mother's eldest brother, who
wasliving in Rochester,N.Y.,came to visit us in
Kirtland. He pleaded with them to turn from
their delusion, and when he found he could
not move them, he appeared heart-broken.
He had watched over my mother from an in-
fant and always called her his pet sister, and to
see her there in such lowly circumstances with-
out hope of earthly comforts made the separation
doubly hard to bear, and added to this was a
feeling of mortification to see them living and
associating with a people so despised as the
"Mormons." He was a noble and kind-hearted
man but too proud to humble himself so far as
to accept of the true Gospel of Christ, after
being driven by different winds of doctrine he
at last died a spiritualist.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


A GOOD WIFE.
You speak of your "good wife" my brother,
You praise her, and well you may,
For a better one never lived, man,
Than blesses your heart to-day.
At home in the working kitchen,
At home in the parlor fine:
And a mother, that is a mother,
To all the dear children of thine.
Her home is her precious castle,
Her law is her husband's love,
And she owns no other, allegiance,
Except to her God above.
And I thought when I heard her singing
Her lullaby songs this morn,
That no sweeter purer music,
Could e'er on the winds be borne.
This Jewel (a wife's devotion)
This gem in its setting bright,
Is to home, with its sweet surroundings
A steady unfading light.
No trials will dim its beauty,
No poverty quench its ray,
I tell you, nothing but cold neglect
Will cause it to pass away.
Then think of it, wives and husbands!
Oh! think of it oft! with care
For, God has joined you together
Not to live in doubt and fear--
You have married and asked God's blessing
You have chosen for weal or woe,
And it is within your compass
To make your home Heaven below.
			SISTER PLUNKET.
Van Hornesville, N. Y., June 3rd, 1880.


[Column 1]
NOTES ON EARLY ENGLISH LITERA-
TURE.

	A nation lives twenty, thirty centuries and
longer and a man lives but sixty or seventy
years, and yet there are many instances in
which a nation resembles man, for in a career
so long and almost interminable, a nation has a
mental and moral character which develops
itself from epoch to epoch, preserving the
same fundamental qualities from its origin to
its decline.
	In the literature of a nation we have its por-
traits. The Canterbury Tales, dramatic works,
of the Renaissance and the Reformation, the
various lines of authors in prose and verses
who have followed each other from Shakes-
peare and Bacon, down to Dickens, Tennyson
and Carlyle, place before us all literary forms
and poetic images, the variations of thought,
sentiment and expression in which the soul of
the English nation has found delight Among
all people the earliest form of literature is the
Ballad. The oldest of all British poems, or
indeed of all modern European writings are
some Irish ballads, found in the Annalists and
ascribed to the first century. Yet our litera-
ture does not begin with the Irish,but the Sax-
sons a gluttonous, barbaric people. What do
we expect of their literature? We find it as we
thought filled with carnage, torture, and all
kinds of horrible deeds and butcherly in-
stincts; for instance, "The daughter of the Da-
nish Jarl, seeing Egil taking his seat near her,
regards him with scorn, reproaching him with
seldom having provided the wolves with hot
meat, with never having seen for a whole
Autumn,the raven croaking after the carnage."
"But Egil seized her and pacified her by singing,
I have marched with my bloody sword, and
the raven has followed me. Furiously we
fought, the fire passed over the dwellings of
men; we slept in the blood of those who kept
the gates." From such talk and such maiden
fancies you may judge of the rest.
	Under this native barbarism there were noble
dispositions such as Magnurson, Morris and
Thorpe whose poems are legends of Gods and

[Column 2]
Goddesses, unknown worlds, monsters, serpents
&c. Their legends are sad and grand and
bear witness of heroes and warriors. One
poem and two or three fragments are all that
remain of this poetry of England. The rest of
the Pagan current was overwhelmed, first by
the influx of Christian religion,then by the con-
quest of the Norman French. But the rem-
nant suffices to show the strange poetic genius
of the race.
	Christianity took root owing to natnral affin-
ities but it did not change the native genius.
There was a conquest which brought new ideas,
different men. In the course of six centuries
the Saxons had multiplied enormously; they
were now about two millions and the Norman
army numbered sixty thousand. Although
history tells us the Normans conquered the
Saxons we may well reverse it. For in vain
did the Normans import their manners, poesy
and language, in three years the conquerors
themselves were conquered. Their language
was English, and owing to frequent intermarri-
ages the English blood ended by gaining the
predominance over the Norman blood in their
veins.
	The literature of the Normans consisted of
barbarous and childish sentiments unable to
develop a continuous idea, confused and in-
conplete phrases after the fashion of the ancient
Saxon. Among these writers were Robert of
Brunne, and Robert of Gloucester, who had
the faculty of easy narration without deep em-
otion. They garnished with rhymes their his-
tories and dissertations, and called them poems.
They wrote a "Prick of the Conscience" and
such pieces of which the titles alone make one
shudder, what of the text? I will give you an
illustration,

"Mankynde mad ys to do Godduss wylle
And alle hys biddyngs to fulfylle,
For of alle Hys makyng more or less
Man most principal creature es
Al that He made, for man hit was done
As H[--]shal here after sonne."

	Ther[-] is a poem which if properly named
we could call a sermon. Here and there we
find divergences, more or less awkward, into
the domain of genius. No one has ever spoken
so well to the ladies as the French and they
do not forget this, when they are settled in
England.
	There are some very pretty verses of English
rhymsters praising their earthly mistresses.
They compare their ladies to all kinds of pre-
cious stones and flowers. They bring into this
northern clime the lively and warm imagina-
tion of the south. Like the troubadours they
spoke of lovely Springtime with its birds and
flowers &.
	They have glowing pictures such as the Ital-
ians wrote but perhaps richer and livelier be-
cause the poet found here for inspiration that
love of country life, which in England is deep
and national. As we read the literature of this
day, knights and ladies, dwarfs, giants, fairies,
dragons, earthquakes and magicians, pass be-
fore us in a highly colored, much distorted
panorama.
	The Romances relating to King Arthur are
ve[-]y interesting and many of our modern poets
have founded their legends on these old tales.
The names of the false knight Lancelot, Merlin
the enchanter, and many others familiar to
those who have read the Idylls of the King
constantly occur in the Romances of Arthur.
	The best known of the Norman French poets
is Wace. His best poems are "Brut d'Agrgle-
terre" and "Roman de Rose." The former is a
translation of Geoffrey of Monmouth's History
of Britain. The latter, The Romance of Rollo,
which narrates the history of the Dukes of
Normandy from Rollo to the sixteenth year of
Henry the second. The principal feature of
this poem is the minute account of the Battle

[Column 3]
of Hastings. There are two other Anglo
Norman romancers,which should be named,not
so much for the excellence of their verse as for
their prominence in English History. Cardin-
al Stephen Langton aud Richard Coenr de
Lion. The first composed some very pretty
French songs, the latter several military poems.
During the middle ages the literature of Eng-
land, indeed of all Europe, lay in the hands of
the monks and minstrels. The monks sat in
their cells and wrote long manuscripts on The-
ology. The minstrels wandered around singing
ballads of love. All these were barren endeav-
ors, the Norman literature was content to copy,
the Saxon bore no fruit. A definite language
was nevertheless attained and there was room
for a great writer, Geoffrey Chaucer appeared.
He was inventive and original though a transla-
tor. He had life, energy, education, genius
and above all was enabled to satisfy the chival-
ric world the splendid courts in which he lived.
Though learned and versed in all the branches
of scholastic knowledge he was a man of the
world and a man of action. Now in the four-
teenth century we have a man, so great that
we call him Father of English poetry, and well
does he wear that name. Consider his subjects.
How does he select them. He goes far and
wide to Italy, France, the popular legends and
the ancient classics. He makes it a business
to provide fine tastes. Ask him his subject
and he answers Love. It is the most pleasing
subject fitted to make the evening hours flow
sweetly. First he translated the Roman de la
Rose in which the course of true love is very
finely depicted. The piece is filled with beauti-
ful descriptions of May Months, flowery earth,
green hedgerows, portraits of smiling ladies and
gallant knights relieved by true sad characters
minutely described,
	There are castles, landscapes, dances, all in
lively sparkling colors contrasted and displayed
ever renewed and varied so as to entertain the
sight. Chaucer's fame as a writer rests chiefly
upon his Canterbury tales. The idea of which
is perhaps borrowed from the Decameron of
Boccoccio, in which a hundred tales are sup-
posed to be told after dinner, by the persons
spending ten days in a country house near
Florence during a time of plague. His plan is
this; some twenty-nine or thirty pilgrims collect
at the Tabbard Inn, in Southwark bound for
the shrine of St. Thomas A. Becket at Canter-
bury.
	The gathering contains specimens of nearly
every character then common in the streets and
homes of England. After the prologue has
described the company, a brav[-] knight
bronzed by the Syrian sun, tells the first tale
then follows the miller, dronken of ale, and so
the tale goes round often merry but sometimes
sad. Each pilgrim ought to tell two or more
stories,one going to Canterbury, and two more
on the homeward way and the whole proceed-
ings to be wound up with a supper at the Tab-
bard Inn where the teller of the best tales was
to be entertained by the rest of the band. The
poet did not live to complete his design, only
twenty-four tales are given. The arrival at
Canterbury, the scenes at the shrine,the tales of
the return, the wind-up supper, all are untold.
	Nothing could surpass the Canterbury tales
as a series of pictures of the middle class Eng-
lish life during the fourteenth century.
	Most of Chaucer's minor and earlier works are
translated from French, Latin or Italian.
	"The Court of Love" and "Troillus" and "Cres-
sida" are poems attributed to his college days.
	"The House of Fame," The legend of Good
Women in which some passages from the lives
of Cleopatra, Dido,Ariadne and others of classic
renown are given together with a beautiful
little allegory entitled the flower and the leaf
are poems of special beauty and worthy of
high praise. [handwritten] Annie [-]. Lew.[---]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,   -   -   Editor.
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from 
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher Woman's Exponent
							Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 15, 1880.


VISIT  TO SANPETE—NOTES BY THE
			   WAY.
			     ------
	In company with Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith
and  Zina  D. Young, we  left  this  city  by  the
Utah  Southern  train  Tuesday morning, Aug. 3,
intending  to  make a tour through Sanpete and
Juab  counties.  Arrived at  Nephi  just  before
noon, and  found Sister  Goldsbrough in waiting
with  a  carriage,  in which  we were  very  soon
seated  and  drove direct  to  her house,  where
dinner  had been  prepared for our party.  After
resting a short time we all started with Brother
House in his conveyance on our wsy to  Sanpete
through Salt Creek Canon.  The scenery is pic-
turesque, and one may gaze with the most pro-
found admiration on the stupendous mountain
heights,some of them crowned with snow-white
caps.  Mount Nebo  is  famed as being the high-
est  point  in  the  Wasatch  range, and is indeed
grandly  magnificent.  A narrow gauge railroad
is in process of construction through this wind-
ing canon  and  will  soon  be  completed.  This
will be a very great advantage to travelers.
	We reached Fountain  Green, the first settle-
ment in Sanpete valley, jnst before nightfall, and
found  Sister  M. A. Hyde was  there  before us.
She  had  come  to  take  us in her carriage on to
the other settlements.  After supper attended a
general meeting  of the Relief Society the same
evening.  The  next  morning we  had  just  fin-
ished  an  early  breakfast when a telegram was
received for Mrs. Zina D. Young, saying her son
had met with an accident on the Utah Western
Railroad, and it would be  necessary for  her  to
return.  We were very sorry to part with her so
soon, but  we  felt  most  deeply  how  her  heart
must be drawn out for one so near and dear; and
we knew her first duty was  to  him.  We at-
tended a meeting of the Primary Association at
nine o’clock A. M., and  then  proceeded on our
journey to Wales, where we arrived in time for
dinner, and  held a meeting with  the  brethren
and  sisters,  and  went  on  our  way.  At four
o’clock arrived in Moroni, where we attended a
meeting of the P. A. of that place.  The school-
house had been decorated in honor of the sisters,
visit, and the children were all in their “Sunday
clothes,” smiling  and  happy.  There  were  a
number  of exercises  by  the  little  folks, all  of
which  were  well rendered;  among  the number
was  an  essay by May Kimball, which was very
good; it was on the subject of cleanliness.  her
sister, a very little  girl, recited “Flowers in the
Wildwood” very  creditably.  Everywhere we
found the children making rapid progress.  Eight
little  girls  dressed  in white came forward and
sang “A Welcome,” composed  for  this  special
occasion.  Peter Swinson, a young lad, perhaps
eleven  years  old,  offered  the  opening  prayer.
The children all seemed very intelligent and
kept excellent order.
	We remained over  night, and attended a fast
meeting  in  the  morning;  after the business  of
the meeting—receiving fast  offerings and bless-
ing children—was concluded, the brethren put
the meeting into the bands of the sisters, Mrs.
Jane  Bailey,  President  of  the  Relief Society,
presiding.
	The next place we visited was Mt. Pleasant,
where we were joined by other sisters from Spring
City,  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Allred  and  Mrs.  Annie
Larson, Counselors to Sister  M. A. Hyde in the
Relief Society  Stake organization, and  other la-
dies.  In  Mt.  Pleasant  two  Primary  Associa-
tions were  organized, one in the North and one
in the South Ward;  289 members enrolled. The
meeting house was well filled at both the Relief
Society  and  Primary  Association  meetings.
From Mt. Pleasant we went to Fairview, where
three meetings were held, and on Sunday morn-
ing quite a company of brethren and sisters from
Spring  City, Mt. Pleasant  and  Fairview  went
over  to  Thistle  Valley to hold meeting.  The
log  meetinghouse was  much  too  small, so the
meeting convened,  forenoon  and  afternoon, in
the  bowery  outside.  There  was a considerable
number  of Lamanites, all  nicely  dressed, look-
ing as happy as possible.  After the singing and
prayer, Bro.  Spencer,  who  presides  over  the
Saints in that locality, spoke to  the Indians in
their own language, explaining who the sisters
were, who had  come to visit  them, and  the na-
ture of their mission among the organizations of
women and children.  After Bro.  Spencer had
spoken  he  introduced “Sister Eliza,” and  told
the  congregation  she  was  the  widow  of  the
Prophet Joseph  Smith, the  man to  whom the
Gospel  had  first been  revealed from  heaven in
this dispensation.  This awakened  in them the
most intense interest.  Sister  Eliza was deeply
affected when she first commenced speaking, in
recalling to mind the prophecies which had been
uttered  concerning  the  Lamanites,  and the
many remarks she had heard from the Prophet
himself.  She spoke about an hour, when Sisters
Hyde  and  Wells  also  addressed  them.  Bro.
Spencer, the  President,  and  Nephi, one  of the
Indians,  interpreted.  In the afternoon  there
was  a  re-organization  of  the  Relief Society of
that  place, the  former society having been dis-
organized  on  account  of  the  president moving
away.  Sister  Eliza assisted  Pres. Spencer and
Bishops Seeley and Tucker in the organization.
Mrs. L. Spencer was elected President, and the
Indians voted for her with apparent pleasure and
satisfaction. Mrs. Rebecca Tanner was elected
first counselor, and  Sister  Susan, a native wo-
man, Nephi’s wife, was elected second counselor.
She is probably the first Indian woman ordained
to  office  in  the  Relief Society.  Mary  Amelia
Seeley was chosen Secretary, and Rosanna Cox
Treasurer.  Pres. Spencer and  the  Bishops or-
dained the president and her Counselors and set
the Secretary apart.  The Lamanite sisters have
already  done  some  benevolent  work,  and  are
very persevering in piecing quilts and other simi-
lar labors.  Joseph, James, Nephi and one or two
others expressed themselves as delighted to see
the  sisters  and  hear  them  talk.  They  have
some  good,  substantial  log  houses,  with  furni-
ture, stoves, etc.;  they  have a very good crop of
grain, which they are now employed in harvest-
ing.  They have purchased some machinery for
farming  purposes, like  that  used  by  the  white
brethren.  The Lamanite sisters have learned to
cook  and wash  and  sew  and  make quite a neat
and  tidy appearance, and  it  is  easy to see will
improve  rapidly.  We returned  to  Fairview at
evening,  quite  pleased  with  our  first  mission
among the Indians.  On our way back we drove
over  to  Bro. Tanner’s farm, where they manu-
facture  large  quantities  of cheese; it is quite a
romantic  place,  almost  up  to  the mountain’s
edge. We  also  passed  some  curious  warm
springs, that are said  to  be very, healthful  and
invigorating to bathe in.
	Early on  Monday morning we  bade  farewell
to  Fairview  and  wended  our  course towards
Spring  City, passing through  and calling at Mt.
Pleasant on our way.  At Spring City we were
joined  by a carriage  load of sisters  from Manti.
Two meetings were held there, one with the chil-
dren, as we did in all the settlements we visited
while away except  two.  We all  enjoyed  our-
selves  very  much,  and  everybody  used their
best endeavors to  entertain  us hospitably and to
make us feel at home.
	From Spring City we went to Ephraim, where
we found  they had  arranged a public dinner, or
festival, in the Relief Society Hall.  Pres. Mai-
ben and wife and Bro. William Fulsom were at
Pres. Petersen’s when we arrived, and also Sister
M. F. C. Morrison, from Mt. Pleasant, and Sis-
ter  Goldsbrough, from  Nephi,  Sister  Irons,  of
Moroni, and  several sisters from  Spring  City,
were  also  of  the  party.  We have not time,
space, or language, to express in full our appre-
ciation  of the  good sisters’ entertainment; we
have  given  a  brief  description  of  the  affair,
which we sent from Ephraim the next day for
publication.  The  meetings  at  Ephraim  were
were well attended, notwithstanding  the  breth-
ren were harvesting  their hay and  grain  and
fighting grasshoppers.  The people have killed
these  troublesome  creatures  by  the  million;
ditches have been dug many miles in extent,
into which  they have driven the grasshoppers,
and these little pests lie several  feet in depth.
The oats and barley are all gone, but they will
probably  save a good proportion  of  the  wheat
crop.  Our  party remained  over  night in Eph-
raim, and  in  the  morning  rode  over  to Manti.
Pres. Petersen  and  his  wife  accompanied  the
party,  which  consisted  of sisters from several
settlements besides those from Salt Lake.
	We all reached Manti about eleven o’clock and
drove directly up to the Temple grounds,Brother
Fulsom  was  anticipating  the  arrival  and  was
ready  to  show  the  party  over the  place.  The
work has progressed  greatly since  our  visit  to
Sanpete just one  year ago.  It is  impossible to
define in language the feeling of solemnity which
impresses one, when standing in the presence of
a Temple of God, although  uncompleted,  upon
holy consecrated ground.  Only  those who have
true appreciation of the  great and mighty  work
to be performed for the  living and for the dead,
can understand  in  any  degree  the  awe  and
majesty  which  pervades one’s whole being in
these sacred places.  It is  as if the presence  of
those  departed,  with  whom  we  have been  as-
sociated in  the past  were  round  about,  urging
the living to faithfulness and the performance of
duty. The Temple grounds at Manti do in very
deed seem a hallowed  spot.  The  terraces  are
imposing in appearance and  add  much  to  the
magnificence of the structure.  The walls are up
some highth above the first row of windows, and
the terraces  are  63  feet  from  the street  with 3
rows of  stairs leading straight from terrace  to
terrace, and then dividing  to the right and left.
When these walls, which form the  terrace  work
are pointed and polished  with  hard  finish,  they
will be quite dazzling in beauty and can be seen
at a great distance.  The temple walls are three
and  a  half feet and  the  buttresses seven and a
half feet in thickness.  The foundation is built
of iron rock, so solid in its formation that it rings
like  iron itself.  The building rock is softer and
a creamy color.  The mortar is made of crushed
rock instead  of  sand;  a  machine  is  used for
crushing,  which  is  run  by  an engine.  It is
quite interesting to see it in operation.  We all
drove  over  to  the quarry in  the mountains,


short  distance  away;  and  it is really wonderful
that right there are all the materials most needed
in  the  erection  of  temples,  just  as  if  all had 
been arranged beforehand by the great Master-
Builder.  A great  deal of labor has been done, 
and much more remains to be accomplished, to 
finish the  temple;  but  the people deserve great
credit for their liberality  and  perseverance in
good works.  At Manti the sisters had decorated
the  meetinghouse  very tastefully  with  flowers
and evergreens.  Around the pillars which sup-
port the building  flowers and vines were grace-
fully  twined, and above the stand was the one 
word "Welcome," in large  letters  composed of 
flowers and green vines.  From Manti the route
was to Mayfield, passing  Pettyville on the way.
At  Mayfield Sister  Eliza  organized  the children
in  a  Primary  Association,  and  seventy-nine
members  were  enrolled.  Two  meetings  were
held there, and leaving  Mayfield  Sister  Hyde
was obliged to return to Mt. Pleasant to attend
the Quarterly Conference.  This was a source of
regret, but  the best  of  friends,  you know, must
sometimes part.  Gunnison was  the next  point
to make,  and we arrived just about sundown at
Bishop  Madsen's.  There  two  meetings  were
also held,  one of them with the children.  The
sisters have so far completed  the Relief Society
building that one large room  has  been  used for
meetings for the settlement  during  the  past
winter.  The  benches are  very  good  ones, and
cost the sisters quite a little sum.  The Relief
Society there  have  a  store which  brings  some
means into the Society treasury, but it is not as
well patronized as it should be.  They certainly
have been exceedingly industrious and energetic
to do what  they  have, and  the  brethren  have
been very liberal  in  donating  both  means and
labor.
From  Gunnison  the  route was  to  Fayette, a
small  town  which lies  towards Juab, a little out
of the line of travel, and consequently is seldom
visited  by people  from  the  city.  Here on the 
13th, one  meeting was held.  The good folks of
Fayette seemed greatly pleased to see the sisters,
and provided teams to go to Levan, a distance
of  twenty-six  miles  over  a  very  rough, dusty 
road. The other chapter  of  travel may be told
in the next number of the EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		45


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE must apologize to the patrons and readers
of our little paper for not continuing the "Pen
Sketch of an Illustrious Woman," in this num-
ber. Having been away from the city and con-
stantly occupied it was not convenient to pre-
pare the manuscript.
	STAKE REPORTS WANTED.—A full Statistical
and Financial Report of Young Ladies Mutual
Improvement Associations from their first or-
ganization up to Oct. 1, 1880, is specially request-
ed from each of the Stake Secretaries through-
out all the Stakes of Zion, by the President of
the central organization of Y. L. M. I. A. Sister
Elmina S. Taylor. Direct the reports to the
Secretary, Louie Wells, care of WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT.
	WE have here Eliza R. Snow's Second Volume
of Poems, for sale, and the Correspondence of
the Palestine Tourists, each of them in cloth
and leather bindings. Price, in cloth, of volume
II of the poems, $1.25; in leather, $1.50. "Corres-
pondence of the Palestine Tourists," in cloth,
$2.00; in leather, $2.50. These books should be
in all the libraries of the Y. L. M. I. A. They
contain much valuable historical information
which should be in the possession of the young
people, children of the Latter-day Saints.
	WE also keep for sale at this office "Songs of
the Heart" by Hannah T. King, a poetical

[Column 2]
writer now very generally known to the people
of this Territory. These little books contain
many precious truths, and speak feelingly to the
human heart. Price 50 cents. We have also
Mrs. Emily B. Spencer's poems at the same
price, and although she is not so well known to
the public as Mrs. King, yet her name has ap-
peared quite often as a contributor in the col-
umns of the Exponent.
THE children of the Primary Association of
South Cottonwood have made a very neat pret-
ty air-castle of straw gathered from the fields,
and a few bright bits of woolen pieces, and have
sent it to this office as a token of their esteem
for the EXPONENT. We thank them most sin-
cerely for this specimen of their industry and
trust their ingenuity and ability may always be
properly directed, and that the time may come
when they may make such beautiful things,that
they will be sought after by the nations of the
earth, according to the prophecies of the ancients
concerning Zion and her people.
WE have on hand and for sale some hundreds
of copies of the two poems by O. F. Whitney,
entitled, "The Women of the Everlasting Cove-
nant" and "The Land of Shinehah." Every
sister at least should have a copy of them, as
the first is especially dedicated to them, and the 
second one, "The Land of Shinehah," is the
history of the rise and fall of Kirtland, the first
gathering place of the Saints in this dispensa-
tion. Price, 15 cents per copy. They will be
sent by mail to any part of the country if re-
quired.
	OUR readers have noticed no doubt the pub-
lication of a Primary Hymn Book for the child-
ren; this book is now ready for distribution. They 
are for sale at this office and at the Deseret
News office. Two copies for 25 cents, four for
50 cents. eight for $1, and a copy should be
placed in the hands of each child that they may
have a hymn book of their own. Sister Eliza
has done all her work for nothing, and she has
been careful in selecting and arranging the
hymns. Having given her time and labor,
there is barely the paper, the printing and the
binding to pay for, and no one is enriched by the
profits except the purchaser. Seven thousand
copies are ready and the work sterotyped so that
more can be furnished when ever they are
needed.


IN MEMORIAM.
	
	With feelings  of  sorrow which  no  words can
express, we are  called  upon  to  mourn  the loss
here on earth of a beloved  friend  and  relative,
the daughter of our eldest sister, a very  beauti-
ful and interesting young woman. 
	Mrs. Carrie Granger Snyder, died in Atchison,
Kansas, of diphtheria, Sunday evening, July 25,
1880, aged 27 years, 4 months and 3  days.  Her
sufferings  were  most  intense  for about two
weeks, and she lay for days at the very threshold
of death  before  passing  away.  Her patience,
fortitude and resignation were most remarkable,
still she was anxious to live, and  she had every-
thing to bind her to life.  A  loving  and tender
husband to  whom she was most  fondly attach-
ed, two precious little boys, one a mere babe, and
she  was  a  most  devoted  mother;  a  widowed
mother who had seen almost all her family "pass
over  beyond to the other shore," all these were
powerful incentives for one so young and affec-
tionate, but notwithstanding her anxiety to live
for usefulness and those she loved,  God willed it
otherwise, and He knows best. 
	" 'Tis sad to part with those we dearly love,
    But parting comes to all," 
	Yes, parting comes to all, and those who have
felt its woe know how to pity others and truly


sympathize;  but time is  the only great healer of
wounds, save  One to whom all may go and lay
their burdens  down,  and  He  will  give  them
sweet aud holy consolation.
	Carrie Granger,  the  subject  of  this  memoir,
was born in Hardwick, Mass., March 22nd, 1853.
Her parents were Henry H. and Lucy M. Gran-
ger.  Her  father  was  a  captain  in  the  Union
army, and was killed  in  battle  in the late war.
She was carefully educated with a view to teach.
Miss Granger came  to  Salt  Lake City  in  1873,
and was  employed  as  a  teacher  here  in Miss
Cook’s School in the Social Hall  for a time, and
afterwards six  months in the district  school  in
the Ninth  Ward  of  this city.  She  was greatly
beloved  by  her  pupils,  in  whom she took the
deepest interest.
		“Other positions of
		Responsibility, as well as those
		Of wife and mother, she has nobly filled.”
	She had an active and vigorous mind and was
most  desirous of being useful  in assisting  to pro-
mote all good works.  She was ever ready to ad-
minister to the poor and needy around her, and
many secret acts  of  kindness  and  charity were
performed by her unostentatiously while she so-
journed among the Saints.
	She will be sincerely mourned by a large circle
of friends and relatives, both here and in Massa-
chusetts, as well as where she had resided for the
past three years previous to her death, Atchison,
Kansas.
	Farewell, dear one, till  we  meet again in that
better land, “where there  is  no more sorrow or
parting for evermore.”			E. B. W.


OBITUARY.
Departed  this  life, at  11 P.  M. July 17, 1880.
Sabina A.  Dollinger  Olaphant,  beloved wife of
Charles H. Oliphant.  Sister Oliphant was born
in the City of New York, Oct. 7, 1839.  She em-
braced the Gospel in 1861. She left all her rela-
tions and a good  home, and  gathered  with  the
Saints in 1862.  With the exception of her cous-
in,  Mrs. A. C. Pyper, she is the only  one of her
family in the Church.  In  1862 she became  the
wife of Brother C. H. Oliphant, was the mother
of one  child  who died in infancy.  For  some
years she was a member of the Tabernacle Choir.
and also of the Theatre Choir in Salt Lake City.
The last ten  years  she  has  been  a  resident  of
Kanab in which place she has made herself very
useful.  She  was  Secretary  to  the  Stake  Sun-
day  School,  assistant  secretary,  to  the  Stake
Relief Societies.  She was also a Sunday  School
Teacher, a member  of  the Ward Choir and  the
Dramatic  Association.  Her great love for, and
knowledge of music,made her a competent teach-
er, and the people  of Kanab  are much indebted
to  her  for  their  present  advancement  in  the
knowledge of music.
Many years previous to her death, she suffered
from  a  very  severe  form  of  neuralgia,  but  her
ambition was so great that  she led a very active
life.  For  two  months  before  her  death  her
disease took the form of dropsy of the heart.
Although  apparently dying  for five days, her
last hours were very peaceful.  Our sister is very
much missed in Kanab.  Her  brilliant  wit and
sparkling manner made her a very  pleasant as-
sociate.
M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.


STAKE REPORTS WANTED.—A full Statisti-
cal and Financial Report of Relief Societies from
April 1st, 1876 to 1880. Also a Semi-Annual
Report from April 1st, 1880, to October 1st, 1880,
are specially requested from each of the Stake
Secretaries throughout all the Stakes of Zion.
Forward to the Secretary of the First Presiding
Board.	SARAH M. KIMBALL, Salt Lake City.


46		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LETTER FROM MASSACHUSETTS.

				THORNDIKE, Aug. 1, 1880.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	My Dear Mother—I have waited long and pa-
tiently for you to answer my last letter, and al-
though I well remember my promise to write
you something, I had made up my mind not to;
but my visit to Orange changed my mind, and
for fear I might forget some of the scenes I visit-
ed in New Salem, I will give them to you now.
All those places that are dear to your heart as
the home of your childhood, possessed too, a
strong interest for me. I have visited as many
of them as my time allowed.
	The little schoolhouse on Chestnut Hill, where
first you trained the youthful mind, is torn down,
and another and smarter one built across the
road, to accommodate the growing wants of the
village, but the foundation stones and some of
the boards are still to be seen, and the brook
close by still rushes on and on. As we rode
along the beautiful woodland drive, many farm-
houses and different places were pointed out to
me, that were, and still are, dear to your remem-
brance. Among them the house where you
boarded when you taught in the little red school-
house. The yard is full of old-fashioned flowers,
and an old grindstone and bench stand in the
front yard, that I think must be the same ones
that graced it when you were familiar with the
place; I am sure the same old well, with its long
sweep and wooden bucket, is still in use. I
wanted to go in and see if the floors were sanded
as I have heard you say they were of old, but
three little tow-heads at the window reminded
me that the old folks who lived there thirty-five
years ago, when you boarded with them, were
not the same who now occupied the premises,
so I restrained my curiosity and drove on past
Grandma Haskell's home, which is nicely kept
up I think, considering its age. Poor old lady!
to think what a home she left here, and of her
life and death in the Far West, seems very sad
to me, and must have been a great change to
her. Next was Dr. Andrews—your old family
doctor. His son, or rather one of them, resides
there now, and the place looks neat and thriving.
Then we came to the Whittaker Place, which is
still very beautiful; I couldn't help but wonder
whether the present occupant of the premises
ever allowed visitors more than a look in her
parlors, unless they came from Boston. I gazed
up at the garret windows, and almost expected
to see some little rosy-cheeked girl with a rag
baby in her arms gazing out at us. I remember
so well what you have so often told us, how you
played there with one of the Whittaker girls, in
that very garret, with broken dishes and dolls.
	I think the country round about here must be
much as it was when you left it, except that
places have some of them run down that were
well kept in those days. The church you used
to attend is still standing, and in a good state of
preservation, but not in use at the present time;
and across the road from it is the schoolhouse
where you used to go to school, still standing,
and is still used for the same purpose, with all
the original furniture. Here I got out and looked
in; I wanted to see the very seat you occupied
when you formed those ambitious projects to be-
come a literary lady, for 1 certainly suppose it
was there, in early girlhood, such ideas were
formed. The master's desk remains intact. Do
you remember it? And the queer little wood
stove in the center of the room, with quaint,
old-fashioned desks and seats on all sides of it;
they (the desks) are notched thick with names;
I wondered if any of them would be recogniza-
ble by you. I think so. It seemed to me a
sacred spot.&nbsp;I stood&nbsp;on the old play-ground,
where you had often played, perhaps even
romped in girlish glee, and tears started to my
eyes in spite of me. A little further on stands
the house where Uncle H. was born, and your
first home in&nbsp;Salem. It is old, and gray, and
vacant, at present, but the sweet fragrance of
pinks and sweet williams and all sorts of old
time flowers, filled the air as we rode by. The
Juniper tree is grown large and beautiful, that
stands at the front of the house; Aunt said it
was only a little one when you went away.
	And next we come to your girlhood home, or
rather the site of it, for the house which I have
heard you say was a century old when you lived
there, has fallen down and gone to decay; but I
sat on the front doorstep, under the shade of
the apple tree, that your dear mother planted,
which is now large and thrifty, and gazed on
the same beautiful hills, covered&nbsp;with verdure
of every shade of green, and lovely in every re-

[Column 2]
spect, as you have done many times in years
gone by. The brook where you used to go and
bathe your face, and listen to its ripple, and talk
to&nbsp;yourself, and where my uncles fished for
trout when little boys, still dances along in the
sunlight, as bright and happy, to all appearances,
as though there were no changes or sorrows in
this world; its banks are lined with the softest,
greenest moss, and ferns grow there in wild pro-
sion. I plucked a few for you, little mother. The
hemlock grove just beyond is as romantic as
when you sat under the graceful, sweeping
boughs of those old trees, and the perfume is
just as fresh.
	The old well next called my attention, and I
had, of course, to draw a bucket of water and
drink from it. The neighbors still use it, and
Aunt Pallas and Delia both said it was wonder-
fully sweet and cool; it tasted better to me than
any nectar.
	Dear Ma, I'll try and remember to tell you all
you want to know.	*	*	*	Start home to-
morrow. Love and kisses to all. I wrote Aunt
Lucy by this mail; have heard the sad intelli-
gence of cousin Carrie's death.
			Lovingly,
								MELL.


SERICULTURE.

	Quite an interest has been manifested in the
Third Ward in Ogden City in the silk-raising,
especially in raising cocoons. We have raised
from eight to ten pounds of cocoons this summer
and have sold worms to different wards in the
country, and we have thousands of eggs on hand
for next Spring. We have the books treating on
silk culture. We have only commenced this
summer in a small way, but we have with the
blessing of God made it a success. I am deeply
interested in this enterprise and always feel it
my duty to respond to every call that is made
upon me in the Church and kingdom of God.
We would be glad to receive any information
from the sisters,which they may be in posession
of in regard to this useful and profitable home
industry.
	MARY C. GILL.


SURPRISE PARTY.
August 3rd a large number  of the Relief Soci-
ety of South Jordan  Ward  and  friends  of our
worthy  President  Ann  Holt assembled  at  her
home to offer her congratulations upon her birth-
day in the form of a surprise party.  The mem-
bers of the Relief Society brought her a few nice
presents,  she is a woman  that  we all  love  and
respect.  She  will  leave  her  bed  in  the  dark
hours of the night to go and comfort the sick, she
is a very useful woman, and I pray that she may
live as long  as she  desires, and  the Lord  bless
her in  her  labors  here  upon  the  earth,  is  the
prayer of her  numerous  friends.  Ever praying
for the welfare of Zion.
						E. E. STOCKING.


WOMAN,S VOICE.
MT. CARMEL, Kane  Co., Utah,
May 31, 1880
	Is it a burthen or a blessing to  keep the Word
of Wisdom, and pay  tithing?  I can  truthfully
answer for one, there is  nothing that I know of
that gives a greater comfort and  consolation to
our consciences at all times than  to observe the
Word of Wisdom, and to pay  tithing, is most as-
suredly the  very  road to  prosperity.  In  fact
there is not one commandment  given  us from
our Heavenly Father through  the great Latter-
day Prophet Joseph Smith, but gives satisfaction
to our conscience if we, with  a  willing  heart
and determined  will  embrace  and  practice it.
Why, then are we so  slow  to obey command-
ments  that  most  certainly  will  prove  great
blessings for us, not only here, but also hereafter,
yea, through all eternity.  And this life with its
little comforts, O, how short and  uncertain it is.
Well then, let us stop for a moment  and  reflect
and ask ourselves how we  would  feel  to-day or
any other day if some one would come and say to
us as I was once told  in a dream:  "Make haste!
Put on your white  garments  and  go  out  and
meet Him, the Savior  is  coming." Let  us  ask
ourselves how would  we feel?  If  we  had  not
even made  an  attempt  to  obey  all  his com-
mandments, would not our consciences smite us?
Would we not with a  blushing  face say to our-
selves:  "How  dare I put pure white  garments
on, and try thereby  to  deceive  Him, when we
know that He can see our most secret thoughts
and know that we have neglected to try to keep
his commands, can we?  Can  we  put  palms of
victory, not even in the smallest thing?"  O, what
a terrible feeling this would be.  How would  we
not fear being  cast  out?  But  if we  had  tried
our best to keep all his commandments, would
not our hearts abound with joy and praise to God
for determined will  to do our duties, when they
were plain, and our consciences were as pure as
our garments.  Some may say, "What is the use?
We cannot be perfected  in  this  life, any way."
The  careless  always  have an excuse for every-
thing;  but  when  we stand at the gates of death,
we will see it in another light, instinctively; we
will then wish with  all  our  hearts that we had
done better in everything,  for  according to our
works we will be judged.
	Well, then,  my dear,  beloved  sisters, let us,
each and every one, through  this  our  "year of
energy and diligence,  of  every  commandment,
and try our best to please  our Heavenly Father
in everything, Yes! even  in  all  our thoughts,
words and deeds, that we may set an example
worthy of imitation  for  the  young  and  rising
generation;  that we  may not  see  them  rise up
against us in a  day to come and  say,  "Had not
your bad example been  before me I might have
been saved to day,  or  at  least  been  higher  in
glory than I am."  Oh! how much depends upon
our determination of  will  to  keep  the  com-
mandments of God, and  all  that can be said  in
two words, Obey God, and  do  to  others  as you
wish to be done unto. Let us do this  and  truly
prepare ourselves  through this the "year of jubi-
lee," for better and  greater  things,  and hence-
forht, that we may  be worthy of  the  thousand
years of jubilee in the presence of the Lord is the
humble prayer and  desire of  your  sister  in the
gospel, J.S.V. WENNERHOLM.
	ST. DAVID,  San  Pedro River,  Pima Co.,
		Arizona, July 11th, 1880.
Dear Sister Wells:
	We thought some  of  the many readers of the
EXPONENT would like to know how  we are get-
ting along in this far off country, so we will try
and send you a short account of  our Relief Soci-
ety.  We are trying to do something to assist in
the great work we are all engaged in.  We held
our Second Annual Meeting  April  22nd,  1880.
Our reports were all read, showing that we have
accumulated during  the  year  $63.75;  disbursed
during  the  year  $34;  donated  to  the Temple
$11.50;  balance in the  treasury  of  $18.25.  Our
Society members  number  13;  teachers  three.
The EXPONENT comes  to  us  very  regular, and
is read with pleasure both by the old and  young,
for it is a great help to us as well  as  a  comfort,
isolated as we are  from  the  main  body of  the
Church.  Our meetings are very well attended;
we hold our  General  Meetings  once  a  month,
and sewing meetings  once  in two  weeks.  Our
Society has started  a  store on a small scale, but
we  hope  to  increase  Brothers McDonald and
David Kimball  here from  Salt River a few
weeks ago.  We  had  a  time  of  rejoicing, they
gave us much  good  instruction, among  the rest
President McDonald advised the  Relief  Society
to get what means they could, with the  help  of
the brethren, and start a Store, so that we could
get things cheaper than we can  by all  running
to different stores.  The health of  our company
is good  except  colds  among  the  children,  our
President's daughter  is  very sick;  she has been
afflicted for years, she is so anxious to regain her
health that I  wish  it  were  possible for  her to
have sufficient faith, but she is  in  the hands of
the Lord, as we all are.  We feel like improving
in all things pertaining to the building up of the
Kingdom of God on the earth.  Praying for the
welfare of  all  the  organizations,  which  are
helps in Zion.  We remain your sisters,
C. MERRILL,
MARIA MCRAE.


Anne C. Brackett has been elected a member
of the executive commitsee of the national
Council of education.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		47


PUBLIC DINNER AT EPHRAIM.

	The Teachers of the Relief Society of Eph-
raim under the supervision of President Sarah
Peterson and her Counselors,Ellen Madsen, and
Ellen Dorius; gave a public dinner in the Soci-
ety Hall in that place Tuesday August 10,1880.
The dinner was given in honor of the visit of
Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith, and E. B. Wells,
Mary A. Hyde President R. S. Sanpete Stake
and her Counselors. The Presidents and Coun-
selors of all the branches in the Stake were in-
vited to be present. The room was beautifully
decorated with flowers and vines garlanded and
festooned. The word welcome, in large letters
painted in imitation of green leaves was put
up at each end of the room, and on the wall on
each side a handsome garland of flowers and
vines wound gracefully together was hung
in a festoon in the center of which was the
letters E. R. S.. for Eliza R. Snow on one side
and E. B. W., for E. B. Wells on the other.
The whole presented a charming appearance;
bouquets of flowers were scattered about here
and there, but the smiling faces and the cordial
greeting of kind friends, warm-hearted brethren
and sisters was the most interesting of all.
Three tables were set the whole length of the
hall, at the head of the table in the center of
the room was seated President C. Peterson and
Brother Wm. Fulsom. Pres. John Maiben and
many local brethren were on one side of the
table and opposite were Sisters E. R. Snow
Smith, E. B. Wells, M. A. Hyde, Amelia
Goldsbrough, Deborah Irons, M. F. C. Morri-
son, Phebe Maiben and others. The other two
tables were filled, nearly 200 persons were
seated. To enumerate the variety of dishes
with which the tables were supplied would be
impossible, but suffice to say it was a feast of
good things. All the widows in the two wards
were invited to partake of the bountiful repast.
Brother Fulsom asked the blessing and the din-
ner passed off pleasently. We thank the good
sisters of Ephraim for the honor conferred and
the courtesy extended to the sisters visiting
them, and shall ever remember with feelings of
pleasure and gratitude their kind attention
their happy faces and the good spirit we felt
in their midst.
	AUNT EM.


WHOSE FAULT WAS IT?
Wait  a  minute, mother!  Do  not  call  that
little bundle of innocent simplicity a "naughty,
bad child!"  until  you have considered  the case.
He comes in hot and thirsty, tired, hungry and
dirty from  his play.  He  does  not  know that
you  have  just  got  "things  straightened up" in
the  kitchen;  that  you  have  been  working fast
and are  yourself  tired  and  nervous;  that  baby
has  only  now  fallen  asleep  for  the  first  time
since  breakfast;  and  that  papa  will  be  in  for
dinner directly and  you  are in such a hurry to
get  everything  ready  for  the  time  he  comes.
You should not expect a child of  three or four
years  old, even  as  bright and sensible  as  your
own, to  think  of  all  these  things.  When  he
calls  out  lustily for  a  piece  of  cake  or bread
and  butter,  don't  make  more  noise  than  he
does  in  trying  to  correct  the  mistake  he has
made.  Perhaps the rattling of the sewing ma-
chine  in  the next room, and the noise made by
mashing the potatoes in the kettle on the stove-
hearth  cause  him  to  think  he  will  have  to
scream to be heard.  If he  startles  the  baby
out  of  its  sleep  the  best  and  cheapest course
for you  to  pursue is to take him gently by the
hand and quietly hush him, while you lnll baby
off  to sleep again;  and  then  see to  your  three-
year  old  darling's  wants  the  first  thing.  It
won't  take more than three  or four minutes to
wipe  the  dust  from  his  face  and  eyes with a
wet cloth, give him a drink of milk and some-


thing to eat. He will likely fall asleep where
you leave him, so you would better put him in
some safe corner on a comfortable cot, and take
off his shoes. You will then have no more
trouble with him for some hours perhaps, and
can have your dinner in quiet.
	If you are only five minutes behind hand
with your dinner, and papa comes in at the
exact moment when it should be ready, he will
be glad of that five minutes to rest in before
eating. For of course your children's papa is a
sensible man, such a husband as a woman like
yourself deserves. And he does not think five
minutes rest such a loss of time on his part,
that he must rush out and begin some little job
that will take him a quarter of an hour to do,
and keep dinner waiting on him for ten min-
utes because he would have had to wait for it
five. He considers other people's time as good
as his own; he knows his wife is one of the
best and most patient women in the world, and
does not wish to try her patience unnecessarily.
He can and will try as hard as she does to
have everything go on in his home in the most
orderly and harmonious style. And how won-
derfully successful they are!
	What was asked about somebody being at
fault? Nothing has gone wrong. No one has
been to blame.
							MABEL.


[Column 1]
WOMAN'S POSITION.

	The duty of mothers is one of great impor-
tance, when we investigate it in its proper light.
Woman's mission on the earth&nbsp;is a great one,
none can deny it. To bear the souls of men
and women is indeed something noble and holy,
although so little realized by young mothers.
Then for this divine mission, woman should re-
ceive the highest qualifications, have the
grandest opportunities of education, and pos-
sessing pure and intelligent minds, what should
be the training of our daughters, who are to
be mothers? Can too much be done to en-
lighten their minds? They should be taught
from their earliest years to qualify themselves
to become worthy mothers, and capable of
choosing wisely a companion who is to be the
father of the immortal souls of their offspring.
Who but woman forms the infant mind? Then
let woman strive for knowledge, that she may
bring forth children of intelligence, fit to be-
come heads of families, statesmen; or rulers.
Woman, study to know thyself. Study to
know good from evil.
	Women are accountable, rational beings,
Without woman's influence chaos would reign
triumphant in the earth. Eve became the
mother of all living. Man actually became
dependent upon the creation of woman. She
was constituted for the companion of man, to
be one with him in all things; there can be no
elevated women without noble men. Knowl-
edge, when rightly used, hurts no one. No
wonder society in the world is in such a condi-
tion, when mothers, the teachers and molders
of the infant mind, are only to know those
things that men think proper. Woman's du-
ties in this life are trying and arduous. She
should have the wisdom of a sage and be gen-
tle as a dove. Her labors and sacrifices for
the exaltation of others as well as herself are
worthy of consideration. Woman stands not
alone; through whatever privilege is given her
man is benefitted; those women who have
opinions of their own are able to counsel with
their husbands in all family matters, and in-
deed other matters. Should not the mother
have a voice in choosing men for office who
are to govern and regulate society into which
her sons and daughters are to be ushered? God
is an impartial being, and created woman for a
noble purpose, as well as man. For genera-
tions past women have been looked upon by

[Column 2]
the majority of men just the same as any other
surplus article, and frequently the newspapers
publish items under the head of "Surplus Wo-
men." It is this spirit which keeps up the no-
tion of inferiority, and shuts her out from
many of the privileges of citizenship. It is
this that makes men smile as at a joke, when
women express themselves as entitled to rights.
It is this same spirit that prompts the opposi-
tion to woman's suffrage. Man should remem-
ber that when our Heavenly Father gave him
power to rule, it was to rule in righteousness.
What safety is there for mothers, or daughters,
or sons, in a nation ruled by a corrupt govern-
ment? None. Men should be protectors of
virtue. How many fair daughters of America
have been driven to lives of shame, by want
and starvation, after having been grossly and
cruelly deceived by some man. How many in-
nocent but thoughtless girls have been led
from virtue's path by wolves in sheep's cloth-
ing. Where can they resort for redress?
Where is the cover for their shame, but in the
hope of an early grave?
	Man has been constituted by unerring wis-
dom the head; let him not boast, but rather
ponder upon the responsibility of such a posi-
tion, have his lamp trimmed and burning, so
that those who are called the weaker vessels
may walk in the light thereof. How is it with
the civilization of the world? Dens of infamy
and debauchery flourish under the protection
of the law, and the vile seducers of innocence
walk abroad, while their victims hide their
heads and sit apart from the rest of the world.
	May the day soon come when woman will
arise in the strength of purity and say to the
vain seekers of the pleasure of an hour, be-
gone! Then would the profligate, the hypo-
crite, seek in vain for a victim. Think of
more than two thousand betrayed and aban-
doned women in the city of New York, and a
corresponding number in other large cities.
Who looks after their forlorn situation? Who
devises means for their protection, that they
may return to the path of virtue? Who but
the leaders of Woman Suffrage, which, in our
humble opinion, were it granted by the gov-
ernment, would promote the best interests of
society, temperance, peace and justice. Let
woman have a practical education in all the
departments of her life, and rise with a fixed
determination to break the shackles that have
so long bound her sex, and become free, as
God made her to be, man's helpmeet and not
his slave. Mothers should early impress these
true facts upon the minds of their children,
and instead of encouraging their boys in false
notions, show them the inconsistency of one
sex being held so superior to the other, where
both are born of the same parents. We trust
there is a new era opened up for women. No-
ble is her work and great her responsibility.
					MARY JANE CROSBY.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	The Sisters meeting in the 14th Ward As-
sembly Rooms August 14,1880 Mrs M. I. Horne
presiding, was a very interesting one. Minutes
were read by the Young Ladies of the branch
associations of Y. L. M. I. A., and also by the
Secretaries of the Primary Associations. The
meeting was addressed by Mrs. Hannah G.
Perkins of St. George Mrs Aurelia S Rogers
of Farmington, also by President M. I. Horne'
Counselors Zina D. Young, Sarah M. Kimball
and Bathsheba W. Smith. Other sisters made
remarks and Mrs. Jane Connsill read an orig-
inal poem, entitled "The Past Present and
Future.

	The Relief Society of Freemont Valley,
Piute Co., was organized March 25, 1880, by our


worthy Bishop, E. H. Blackburn, the following
officers were elected: Martha Allred, President;
Leah  Blackburn  and Mary  Ellett, Counselors;
Matilda  E.  Okerlund,  Secretary;  Anna  M.
Young,  Treasurer.
Our  Relief  Society  numbers  thirty-eight
members;  we  hold our meetings once a month,
and  considering  our  scattered  condition the
meetings are  well  attended, and we  enjoy the
Spirit  of  God.  We  can  truly say  our  Presi-
dent  is a  good woman  and  very  punctual  in
attending  to  her  duty.  We  wish  to  be  one
with our sisters, and we hope and trust that we
may ever  be alive to the  duties  and  responsi-
bilities that rest upon us, and are thankful that
we  have  a great  and  glorious  work.  Your  sister
in the Gospel,
			M. E. OKERLUND, Sec'y.
Relief Society report  of  Brigham  City, Ari-
zona, for the  year ending May 20, 1880: Mem-
bers enrolled, 31;  an examination of  our finan-
ces shows  an  amount  in  our  treasury of  nine
dollars in  cash  and four dollars and fifty cents
in  sundries;  we  have  donated  to  the  Manti
Temple fifteen dollars, and a quilt to the Logan
Temple, price  three dollars;  disbursements  in
cash, twelve dollars.
We are still trying to live according to the 
precepts of our most holy religion.  The  EX-
PONENT is still one of our most  welcome  visit-
tors, for which  we  are  truly thankful, and we
ever wish to  be  numbered with our sisters in
every good word and work.
		MARTHA CURTIS, Ass't Sec'y.
The Primary Association  of Hyrum  held a
Quarterly meeting  July  9,  in  the meeting
house, President Lucy Wilson presiding.  Pres-
ent on the stand were I. C. Thorsen, C. M. Ol-
sen, C. Liljenquist, President of the Relief So-
ciety, and  others.  After  the  usual  opening
exercises  the  meeting  was  occupied  by  the
children  in  recitations,  select  readings and
songs.
 The house  was  crowded, every  one  seemed
to be filled with  joy and gratitude towards the
children, to hear  them sing and recite so beau-
tifully.  I thought if there were  no  children
in heaven I should not want to be there.
Elder  I.  C. Thorsen  gave  some  good teach--
ings on  the  Ten  Commandments, followed by
C. F. Olsen  and  C. Liljenquist.  Rewards  of
merit  were  then  distributed  to  the  children,
after which a picnic  and party were given, un-
der the able  management of Lucy Wilson, the
President. All enjoyed themselves exceedingly
well, and  it  will  be a day long  to  be  remem-
bered by the children.
		ALICE UNSWORTH, Cor. Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE Empress Eugenie will spend the Autumn
at her beautiful home on Lake Constance.

	THE noble and beloved Princess Louise is
compelled to return to England to recruit her
failing health, and it is generally believed that
her husband the Marquis of Lorne governor
general of Canada, will resign his position in
order to remain with his wife.

	A&nbsp;STENOGRAPHER sat at a telephone sev-
enty-eight miles from Elmira, a recent Sunday,
and took down the sermon of Thomas K.
Beecher, who was preaching in his own pulpit
at Elmira.

	A young girl fourteen years of age the
daughter of an officer at the capital "Our
Arctic Domain" is said to be the youngest
official in the Post Office Department. She
is post-mistress at Sit-ka, Alaska.


PLYMOUTH, forty  miles  from Boston, Mass.,
famous for the  landing of the Pilgrims  in  the
bleak  month  of  December,  1620,  is  at  the
present  time  a  thriving  town  of  seven  thou-
sand inhabitants, three or four miles in length,
but  very  narrow,  comparatively,  in  width.
There  are  many very  elegant residences  over-
looking  the harbor. “Under a granite canopy
is the identical rock where landed in the bleak
winter, two  hundred  and  sixty  years  ago, a
band of exiles, who  had  moored their bark on
the  wild New England shore.” A building is
now in process  of  re-construction on the  main
street, which  is  to  be  devoted  to  the  sacred
relics of the first  settlers. “An elliptical  en-
closure is near, containing a large boulder broken
off  from  Plymouth Pock, on  which is chiselled
out  the  never-to-be-forgotteu date,  1620,  while
in the festoons  of  the iron railing surrounding
it  are  engraven  the  immortal  names  of the
forefathers.” The national monument, the me-
morial  of  the “toils, sacrifices  and sufferings”
of these  renowned  Pilgrims,  is  situated on an
elevated site  which  overlooks  the  harbor, and
when  completed will  be “a model  of beauty,”
as well  as  of  honor,  to  those  brave,  heroic,
self-denying  men  and  women  who  left  home,
friends  and  country to  obtain “civil and reli-
gious liberty” for  themselves  and  their  pos-
terity, and  all  who  should  come  to  them for
protection from tyranny and oppression.


THE SUMMER  SOLSTICE.--One great reason
why hot weather  is  so debilitating lies  in  the
fact  that  the  body is exhausted  by the labors
of the  year.  Indeed,  it  is  natural  that this
should be so.  In order, therefore, to resist this
tendency to exhaustion it  only  becomes neces-
sary  to  re-invigorate  the  body,  which  can
readily  be done by one or two bottles of War-
ner's Safe Tonic.  This remedy is being  exten-
sively used  by  physicians for  this  purpose, and
is for sale by druggists in all parts of the world.

&nbsp;		HAVE YOU  SEEN  THE
NEW  VICTOR  SEWING MACHINE?
	If not  you  should  do  so  at  once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction.  The  New Machine
is elegant in appearance  and  admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise  and  confusion, although
the  rate  of  speed  is  very high.  Its  self-setting  and  self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple  and  durable.  Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
	VICTOR SEWING  MACHINE  CO.,  CHICAGO, ILL.
		O. H.  RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

WARNER'S
SAFE
BITTERS
	It is the best Blood Purifier, and stimulates
every function to more healthful action, and is
thus a benefit in all diseases.
	In eliminating the impurities of the blood, the
natural and necessary result is the cure of Scrof-
ulous and other Skin Eruptions and Diseases,
including Cancers, Ulcers and other Sores.
	Dyspepsia, Weakness of the Stomach, Consti-
pation,  Dizziness,  General  Debility,  etc., are
cured by the Safe Bitters.  It is unequaled
as an appetizer and regular tonic.
	It is a medicine which should be in every fam-
ily, and which, wherever  used, will save the
payment of many doctors' bills.
	Bottles of two sizes: prices, 50 cents and $1.00.
SAFE KIDNEY & LIVER CURE
SAFE DIABETES CURE
SAFE TONIC NERVINE PILLS
READ! Save Thyself
Warner's
Safe Reme-
dies are sold
by  Druggists
and  Dealers
in Medicine
everywhere.
H.H. WARNER & CO.
Proprietors,
Rochester, N.Y.
Send for Pamphlet
and Testimonials.
[column break]
ROMANIA B.  PRATT,
Physician  and Surgeon.
	OFFICE--Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE--Six  Blocks  East  of Post  Office, South side
of street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and  DISEASES  of  the  EYE and EAR.

ELLEN B.  FERGUSON,
Physician  and Surgeon.
	OFFICE on Main St., over Calder's Music Store.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between  9th and
10th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and  Diseases  of  the  THROAT,  HEART and LUNGS.

		DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.
	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired  on  short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF  FASHION,  No. 17  EAST  TEMPLE ST.
			MRS. C.  E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY.  The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet.  Also,  a  nice  selection  in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes.  Country Dealers, please Call.  Ladies'
Hair  Work in all its branches.  Good  Work Guaranteed!

	NEW SPRING  STOCK!
F. AUERBACH  & BROTHER,
	55 East Temple St., Salt  Lake City.
	Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings;  Five  hundred  pairs Kid Gloves;  Trimmings;  Ladies'
Ties, Cuffs and Collars; 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery  Stock  in  the  West.
Notions;  Boots  and  Shoes;  Gents'  and  Boys'  Clothing and
Furnishing Goods, Etc., Etc.

&nbsp;		Z. C. M. I.
WHOLESALE  AND  RETAIL  DEALERS  IN
DRY  GOODS,  NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS &  QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

		AT TEASDEL'S
		SALE LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for  Gent's Clothing and
Carpets,  Ladies'  and  Children's  Shoes,  Dry
Goods, Shawls  and  Domestics,  Groceries,  Hard-
ware and Stoves.
	DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
		S. P. TEASDEL.

&nbsp;		A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made  Trunks  for  Sale  by  JOHN  C.
CUTLER, Agent for the  PROVO WOOLEN  MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
	Blankets,		Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
	Flannels,		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
	Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
	Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
	Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

			H. DIN WOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND  RETAIL DEALER IN
				FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS,  WIRE  MATTRESSES,  FEATHERS,  WALL PAPER
			--AND--
		BABY CARRIAGES,
	75, 77,  & 79,  First  South Street,
		SALT LAKE CITY.

	DR. A.  B. DUNFORD,
		DENTIST.
SPECIAL ATTENTITON PAID
to Filling and  Preserving  the
Natural  teeth.  Teeth  Carefully
Extracted.  FALSE TEETH  inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner.  PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:--MAIN ST.,  OPPOSITE  SALT  LAKE HOUSE.
			P. O. BOX, 541,


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

