
WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 9.			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1880.			No. 1.


A FABLE.
Once, (so I heard) in some far land,
Two happy lovers wedded, and,
A fairy mother to them brought
A chain of gold, richly o'er wrought
With quaint designs, and legends strange,
Befitting life in every change.
Each golden strand was made of two,
Divided once yet linked anew.
She blessed the gift, bidding the pair
To take of it most sacred care.
And for awhile I scarce need tell,
That all for them in life went well.
At last, (such ills will come along)
One day, something with them went wrong;
And hastily one of them spoke
An unjust word. Instantly broke
One golden link. No mortal hand
Could mend the work from fairy land.
So ever hung before their eyes,
The broken strand, a sad suprise.
Ah! said the fairy, now I fear
There's going to be trouble here,
With patience broken, there are few
Can guess how  much there'll be to rue.
And sure enough, it was not long,
Before some other thing went wrong;
And judgment, without mercy sweet,
Like Shylock, urged his claim complete.
And 'neath the stress and burden hard,
The strand that broke, was true regard.
Though started, the wrong doer sought
No angel aid, but inly thought;
Why yield my heart to vain regret?
The strongest strands are left me yet;
Why bind the powers of my soul,
And  impulse fresh, control?
Shall I my nature free, restrain?
'Love' and 'forgiveness' yet remian,
And pure as gold, and strong as steel,
These two can bear all life can feel.
And keeping always before view
Reliance on this anchor true;
Turned here and there, and every where,
The plantom joys of life to share.
Thinner and thinner grew the strands,
Upheld oftimes by trembling hands.
The lovely emblems on them traced,
Became by careless use effaced.
But never dimly shone the gold,
And still they bore a stress untold
That heavier grew; until one day
The hand grown weakest dropped away.
And severed thus, they drifted wide,
One out upon life's restless tide;
The other silent and at peace,
Grown fairer since the soul's release;
With the safe passport to that land,
Where He, mends all life's broken strands.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CHROCHERON.
May 19th 1880.


CHARITY FOR  THE FALLEN
	"Neither do I condemn thee; go, and sin no more."

	How forcibly do these simple  words of Jesus
portray his charity for a fallen woman; but how
different the charity of  men and women profes-
sing the same religion ! When  a woman falls a
victim to man’s evil persuasions, it is the custom
among all Christian people to look upon her as a
thing beneath their  notice,  except it be  to point
the finger of scorn at  and  call  vile names; and
yet, if we possessed one spark  of  the  charity of
Jesus, the worst accusation  that  we would  feel
justified  in making is, that  she was very weak:;
and in many  instances, could  we  know all the
circumstances and  realize  the  power of' the
tempter, and the arts and devices used to deceive
and lead astray, and how long and cunningly the
betrayer has  pursued  his  victim,  our censure
might be  turned  to admiration  for the strength
that resisted so  long.  But we only see  the fall;
God alone sees the conflict, and  He only is com-
petent to judge;  He  alone  knows how  to draw
the line between wilful sin and  the  temptations
too strong for our resistance.  Were  we permit-
ted to read  one chapter  in  the  pre-natal  exist-
ence of many  persons,  and  know  the  traits of
character bequeathed  to them  by their parents;
how they were endowed  with  propensities that
were so  indelibly  stamped  into their existence
were so  indelibly  stamped  into  their existence
that they cannot  be  eradicated by any teaching
and influence in after years, together with weak-
ness  and  indecision  that were never  taught to
bow  in submission  to  principle, we would pity
the poor helpless  creatures  thus  born  with  no
armor of  protection, for they are destined to be-
come an easy prey to the flattery and temptation
of unprincipled men.
    Parents, if you  have an  erring daughter, that
you would  turn  from  the  protection  of  your
home and love, look back to the time before that
child was  cast  upon  the  great  sea  of  human
trial, and see if  a  remembrance of your former,
selves cannot arouse  within you feelings of char-
ity and pity for one you sent into the world to
battle with its temptations, with no  shield, and
then, perhaps you maybe able to say, “Neither
do I condemn thee; go, and sin no more.”
   I know that such arguments and such charity
as I would urge in behalf  of a  sister who has
stepped from the pleasant path  of  virtue would
be met by many with  the  taunting  reply that
“you are as bad as she, or you would not have so
much charity.” Yet, who would think of cast-
-ing reproaches upon  the purity of Jesus  because
of his charity?  The virtuous may abhor sin, yet
pity  the  sinner;  and it  is  their  love  of  virtue
that would prompt them  to reclaim  with kind-
ness those who have forsaken its path.  I might
plead the same excuse for men  that I have for
women, did they  not already  claim  too much
sympathy  from  society;  but  I plead for helpless
women, who are sinned  against so much more
than they sin.  Society supports and smiles upon
man  while he injures  woman,  who can  claim
no redress,  no sympathy from  the  same source
that shields  him.  The wickedness of a man
who pursues a woman to her ruin is only wink-
ed at by society, while  the woman  may plead
for mercy,—may wash  out  her  sin  by  night
with  bitter tears of repentance,  and walk the
earth by day beneath the crushing sense of shame
and humiliation;  but that  will  avail nothing.
Society  does not speak the words of Jesus; it
only turns reproachfully  and  says, “You have
sinned once, that is sufficient; there  is  no help
for you now, no hope, only to go down to deeper
degradation  and  eternal  misery.  But who is
much to blame for this state of things?  Woman
herself.  Woman, Remember that you are a part
of that society that would scorn  you should you
fall.  Be not you the one to crush  your fallen
sister; do not draw  your  untarnished  garments
around you with such an air  of  superiority,  but
ever think,“You might have fallen as low as she,
had you been tempted equally." And you may yet.
see the time when you can say, “She has  but
stumbled iu the path that I in weakness trod.”
No human being can be frozen  back to a life of
virtue more effectively than  they can  be  drawn
back by kindness and  true charity.  Few hearts
are so innately bad that they cannot be reformed
by the power of love.	OLIVE BRANCH.


[Column 1]
THE INFLUENCE OF HOME.

	Good, bad or indifferent characters are mold-
ed at home, and polished abroad. The more
perfect the mold the more valuable the casting.
The more careful the polish the more lasting
the article. I will attempt to apply the above
figure of speech to the molding and permanency
of the human character. The cheerful family
circle, radiant with smiles, suggestive of pure
motives, appreciative of one another, are essen-
tial in framing minds that prefer to make home
the place in which to spend their leisure time.
The welcome "Good night" brother, or, "Good
night" sister, in retiring; or the "How I enjoyed
that reading," "the game you proposed," or simi-
lar sayings are intended to bind children and
parents with inseperable ties thatever find them
prefering home affection to the cold formalities
of the outer world. If there is one place more
like heaven than another, it is a bright, sun-
shiny home; where love is the ruling element,
and where each one's aim is to promote the hap-
piness of the other members of the family.

[Column 2]
Such a home never entirely fades from the mind
of any one who was reared in its purifying ele-
ments; and no matter how far they may have
strayed from its peaceful influences and as far
from its teachings, be assured in moments of re-
flection, they are carried back to those early and
happier days. If children are taught to realize
that home means happiness, (which can be done
by giving them plenty of home amusements)
they will have no desire to visit questionable
places of recreation. Home is the birthplace of
good and evil deeds. Upon the different influ-
ences around us in childhood, depends our future
career; if good, our course through life will show
it; if evil, nothing good can emanate from it. It
is not alone a home of drunkenness and vice that
exerts an evil influence over children. We can,
any of us, point to homes where the parents are
moral and industrious, but they lack the ele-
ments that constitute a good home. Parents get
angry and let their passions rule them instead of
calm reflection. A mother or father's notice
and appreciation of a child's wants and presence
should never be overlooked; for a child who is
continually crossed in his wishes can never
be amiable. Parents should refer in as few
words as possible to a child's errors, and then
show a forgiving disposition; slight reproof is far
better than an angry denunciation. For many
an erring one would have come back, like the
dove to the ark, after the first transgression, but
are cruelly driven beyond recall by harsh
words and menacing taunts; the savage charity
of an unforgiving soul. Forgiveness for sins re-
pented should be one of the rules of home. The
same offence, if possible, should never be refer-
red to. Speak volumes of praise and mild re-
proofs, and you'll find love and liking beneath
your roofs. Associations with sin are the direct
results of the want of union at home. The
parent who fails to mingle with and enjoy the
society of his children, and children that with-
hold familiarity with parents, and dread their
presence, and use deception rather than frank-
ness, are subjects of pity; and are in danger of
ruin and self-neglect; liable at any time to fan
into a flame discord and contentions that sepa-
rate the family, sending young men into dens of
iniquity, and gambling hells, and driving from
parental roofs, fair daughters to become outcasts
and women of the town.
	All our great men and women who have ob-
tained notoriety for their works, say that to
home, and most of all to their mothers, is due
the credit for the fame they have gained. Then
you, parents, are the builders of our characters,
and our lives. Parents who are too ready to lis-
ten to, and believe hearsay accusations against
their children, are the direct framers of a founda-
tion that will dissolve a united family, and scat-
ter the inmates, causing them to become associ-
ates of strangers. To such parents I would say,
believe what you know to be true, and be a con-
fiding parent, ever ready to protect your child
against slanderous talk; confide in him your fears
of wrong, with mild and affectionate words, and
if he will not then tell you all his acts, I judge
human nature wrongfully. Who should be
more confiding than parents and children? Who
should protect and defend a child against wrong
with the greatest force of determination? Cer-
tainly you will say "a parent." Yes, it should
be a parent; but how often do we find it the re-
verse. And parents who take again within the
home circle, an erring one, are the brightest
flowers met with on the pathway of life. Young
men and young women I appeal to you for aid
in inducing each other to be more frank and
confiding to your parents. If you err, confide
the fact to your best counselor; one who gave
birth to your existence; one who is ever ready
to stand by you in sickness, and soothe your
fevered brow; one who has shed and will shed
the bitter tear at your misfortune, sickness or
death. Withhold nothing that may concern
your character, and be assured you will be less
liable to deceit and equivocate before your par-
ents. Guard well against committing wrongful
acts, and your reputation will require no other
protection.					NANNIE WORLD.
	Salt Lake City, May 1st, 1880.


2		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
CONTINUATION OF THE MEMORIAL OF
ALICE AND PHOEBE CORY.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	There are circumstances in every life, though
some may be so small that we fail to note them
at the time they occur, that yet cause a leaf to
be turned in the book of life, which will color all
the future. We see this in the important step
Alice took in starting to New York to begin life
on her own account by means of her pen! With
her great and grand mind, her strong will and
brave endurance, her character was still strictly
feminine, and had she married as she expected
at that time the man she loved and to whom
she was engaged, her life would have been that
of a devoted wife, a loving mother—in fine, a
woman of the highest type.
	Business interests brought into her home
neighborhood a man—at that time her superior
in age, culture and fortune; he sought out her
family as superior to the surroundings, and
Alice most especially; an attachment sprang up
between them, to her he became, the man among
men, the king of her youthl She never loved
another! His family were proud and prosperous,
and exerted all their influence to prevent his
alliance with a poor, obscure, uneducated rustic!
Years after she said, in speaking of this epoch
of her early life, "I waited for one who never
came back, till after a time,I read his marriage in
the paper!! Think what life would be, loving
one, wating for one who never came back!"
Years after he did come back; his wife was
dead, and Alice was dying! "The grey haired
man sat down by the grey haired woman." Life
had prospered with him, suffering and death
had taken all from her save the lustre of her
wondrous eyes; from her wan and faded face
they shone full upon him with the tenderness
of youth. She forgave him for her blighted,
weary life, with a smile as divine as ever beam-
ed on the face of an angel! Thus they met who
had parted plighted lovers in early youth! Alice
Cary's was no weak nature, all its fine feminine
gold was set in a will of iron. All its deep ten-
derness was walled in by justice, common sense,
and strict integrity; she outlived that sorrowful
youth to become one of the workers of the world;
she had many offers of marriage, some splendid,
but she never entered into another engagement;
the king of her youth passed out from her life,
but the niche in her heart's temple remained
vacant. It was in this desolation of her youth
that she determined to go to New York and
make a home, and life work for herself, she did
so and after a short time sent for her sisters
Phoebe and Elmina to join her. Of this depar-
ture from their paternal home Phoebe says,
"Without advice or counsel of any but
ourselves, we resolved to go to New York, and
after the manner of children in the story book,
seek our fortune." They hired two or three rooms
in a quiet neighborhood, and set earnestly to
work to earn a living by the pen! They lived in
a very humble, economical way, writing for
whatever papers would accept their contribu-
tions and taking any remuneration that was
offered them, thus they managed to live and
keep out of debt. They had a horror of board-
ing, and from the first determined to make a
home, however humble it might be; and this
made their life a success. Alice papered the
room with her own hands and Phoebe painted
the doors, framed the pictures, and "bright-
ened up" things in general. Their
home was a cheerful and a happy one
and they drew friends around them, who were
friends to their closing scene of life on earth.
One of the most devoted was the celebrated
Horace Greeley; he was faithful even unto death,
and attended the funeral of Alice to its last
resting place, and saw the last sod laid upon her
grave. He refers to their early tea parties as
follows: "Being already an acquaintance, I
called upon the sisters, soon after they set up
their household gods among us, and met them
at intervals thereafter at their home or at the
homes of their friends. Their parlor was not so
large as some others, but quite as neat and
cheerful; and the few literary persons, or artists,
who occasionally met at their informal invita-
tion to discuss with them a cup of tea, and the
newest books, poems, or events might have
found many more pretentious, but few more en-
joyable gatherings."
	Thus began in 1851 the life work of Alice and
Phoebe Carey in New York. The next year saw
the coming out of Alice's first series of "Clover-
nook Papers," their very simplicity and freshness
won all hearts; they sold largely in this country
and in Great Britain. She was free on her na-

[Column 2]
tive heath, when she painted rural scenery and
rural life. These papers were translated into
French at Paris. Her active brain and soul pro-
duced in twenty years eleven volumes, every
word and thought of which wrought from her
own being, and every line of which was written
by her own hand.
	In the same number of years Phoebe, be-
sides aiding in the editing of several books, the
most important of which was "Hymns for all
Christians," published by Hurd and Houghton,
in 1869, brought out "Poems and Parodies," pub-
lished by Ticknor and Fields, 1854, and "Poems
of Faith, Hope and Love," issued by Hurd and
Houghton, besides at their death poems enough
uncollected to give each name two added vol-
umes, one of each a book of child poems. I have
much to relate about Phoebe, but have no more
room at present.


GRATITUDE
	Having been, greatly  benefitted  and blessed
by the impulses recurring  from  gratitude, I in-
dulge in a few reflections  upon  such a manifest
boon, and  which  I am proud to  say it is one of
the choicest  component  parts  of  my  nature.
Had I the ability to do justice to its goodness, I
would wield my pen loudly  fraught with  its
praise.  I value  it as a noble  trait of  the mind
when we frame  our  hearts  to  give it free exer-
cise. It inspires  alike  the  old and young, the
rich, the poor, the generous aud the good, and to
cultivate which is much to our interest such a
heaven-born sentiment enriches  and exalts.  It
is an influence which should  be  fostered,  for  it
impresses  and  strengthens  us  in  our daily la-
bors;  its  happifying  features  are ever welcome
to the honest in heart. It calls forth our best
emotions  and  has  a large claim upon our finer
feelings; also  as  consoler and comforter,
giving new and invigorating  life  and content-
<js as="" a.="" consoler="" and="" comforter,="" giving="" new="" invigorating="" life="" content-="" ment="" to'those="" who="" can="" fully="" appreciate="" it.="" wo="" would="" lose="" much,="" were="" our="" hearts="" devoid="" of="" such="" a="" treasure.="" let="" us="" train,="" then,="" not="" careless-="" :="" jy="" crush="" heavenly="" attribute,-="" for="" it="" glad="" dens="" the="" heart-="" makes="" oheerful="" home,="" but="" ever="" tender="" our,sincere="" thanks="" to="" father="" in="" heaven="" sop="" reel="" pus="" jewel.="" may="" al-="" ways="" jc="" tain="" promiiient.place="" bosoms="" flow="" with="" prayers="" lor="" mercies="" extended="" towards="" us.="" ",r="" me="" is="" constant,="" .companion,="" my="" heart="" teems,="" gratefulness,="" when="" i.="" r.="" behold="" -the="" works="" creator,="" am="" led="" many="" times="" exclaim,-="" thank="" god!”="" viewing="" nature’s="" pcenery="" or="" hearing="" warbling="" .of="" birds="" murmuring="" rill,="" snew,="" the;="" sunshine,="" rain,="" the.="" dew="" drops,="" all="" possess="" charm="" nip,="" i="" cheerfully="" give="" daily="" bread,="" ’for="" children="" ,="" pray="" realize="" words,="" fti="" ani="" .the="" bread="" life.”="" that="" they.,="" praise="" their="" maker="" while="" they’ve="" breath.="" ascend="" continued="" advdtftages="" we="" have="" these="" peaceful="" vales,="" only="" realize,="" show="" gratefulness="" privileges="" thi?="" dispensation,="" which="" sense;="" are="" truly="" living="" very="" .eventful="" times;="" 6urely="" theudgmentsof="" god="" at="" doora="" told,="" commence="" nfc="" house="" lord.="" been="" afflicted="" here="" months="" terrible="" disease="" diphtheria,="" thankful="" say="" abating.="" people="" ac-="" knowledge="" chastening="" hand="" lord,="" know="" he="" desires="" live="" nearer="" him,="" whether="" will="" do="" so="" remains="" be="" seen.="" those="" called="" part="" little="" ones="" sorely="" tried,="" lord="" calls="" must="" submit.="" -="" taught,="" great="" consolation,="" reserving="" choice="" seed="" unto="" himself.="" 1="" feel="" tlio="" priesthood,="" head="" church="" 'generously="" inspired="" this="" year="" jubilee,="" ;="" 'ahd="" hope="" lord’s="" poor="" rejoice="" goodness="" mercy="" god,="" offer="" up="" thanks;="" what="" blessing="" storage="" wheat="" prove="" many,="" sisters="" hot="" slacken="" theirenergies="" curry="" out="" counsel="" servants="" god.="" also,="" organizations="" sisters;="" members="" thereof="" enjoy="" &="" greater="" portion="" holy="" spirit="" since="" thfey="" insti-="" tuted,="" better="" understanding="" gospel="" plan="" salvation,="" good="" instruction="" receive="" societies="" nature="" cause="" reflect,="" teachings="" entirely="" lost="" upon="" us,="" as-="" -sistus-in="" sustaining'each="" other.="" digress-="" ing="" from="" subject,="" fear="" lest="" tiro="" you,="" conclusion="" believe;="" inutile="" principle="" plural="" marriage,="" where<="" div="">ment to those who  can  fully appreciate it. We
would lose much were our hearts  devoid of such
a treasure.  Let us train, then, and not careless-
ly crush  such  a  heavenly attribute, for it glad-
dens  the  heart  and makes  cheerful the home,
but ever tender our sincere thanks to our Father
in  Heaven for so precious  a jewel.  May it al-
ways retain a prominent place in our bosoms and
flow with  our  prayers for the mercies extended
towards us.
	To me it is a constant  companion,  my  heart
teems with gratefulnes when  I  behold the
works of our  Creator, and  am  led many times
to exclaim, "thank God!" when viewing nature's 
scenery or in hearing the  warbling  of the birds
or the murmuring  of the  rill,  the  snow,  the
sunshine, the rain, the  dew drops, all posses a
charm for me, and I cheerfully  give thanks for
my daily  bread, and  for  my children, who I
pray may realize the words, "I am the bread and
the life," and that they  may praise their Maker
while they've breath Let  our  prayers ascend
for the continued  advantages  we have in these
peaceful  vales, and not  only  realize, but show
our gratefulness for  the priveliges extended to
us in this dispensation,  which  I can  sense; we
are truly living in  very  eventful  times;  surely
the judgments of God are at our very doors  and
we are told  commence  at  the  house  of  the
Lord.   We have been afflicted here for months
with  that  terrible  disease diphtheria, which I 
am thankful to say is abating.   The  people  ac-
knowledge  the  chastening  hand  of the Lord,
we knew He desires us to live  nearer to Him,
but whether we will do so remains  to be seen.
The hearts of those who  have been  called to 
part with their little ones have been sorely tried,
but when the Lord calls we  must submit.  We
are taught, which is a great consolation, that he
is reserving a choice seed unto himself.
	I feel thankful for  the  priesthood,  and  that
those at the head of the Church have  been so
generously inspired in this the Year  of  Jubilee,
and hope the Lord's  poor  will  feel  to  rejoice in
the goodness  and  mercy of  God, and  offer up
their gratefulness in thanks; and what a blessing
the storage wheat  will prove to many, and may
the sisters not slacken in their energies to carry
out the counsel of  the  servants of  God.  I am
also thankful for the organizations of the sisters;
I know  the  members thereof enjoy a  greater
portion of the Holy Spirit since they were insti-
tuted, and have a better  understanding  of  the 
Gospel plan of salvation,  the  good  counsel  and
instruction which we receive  in  these Societies
are of a nature to  cause  us  to  reflect, and the
teachings are not entirely lost upon us but as-
sist us in sustaining each other.  I am  digress-
ing from my subject, and I fear lest I  tire  you,
but in conclusion  let  me  say I believe  in the
principle of plural marriage, and when or where


I may be will aid its progress.  I have been much
interested in reading the  intelligent speeches of
our sisters upon political  questions,  and  hoped
they will soon  be  looked  upon  not  only as  co-
workers, but co-equal with man, in all that per-
tains to the welfare of society.  I pray our father
in heaven to abundantly bless you sisters in your
labors of love, and may we continually strive to
live our religion,  is the wish of,  Your Sister in
the Church of Christ		M.	A. TILL
	Goshen, May 11, 1880.


﻿A MOTHER’S REFLECTIONS. 
				   _______
    I have never written any before for our much
respected  EXPONENT, I say  our  EXPONENT be-
cause I feel much interested  in  that paper  and
in the great work that is  being  brought  about
in these last days.  As a mother in Israel I feel
to add my mite with my sisters.  I often wonder
to myself  if  we  mothers  realize  the  great  re-
sponsibility that rests  upon  our  shoulders  in
rearing our children  in a  right  and acceptable
manner before  the  Lord,  and  teaching them
correct principles, both by precept and example,
and in being very careful that  the  example we
set before them at home and with our neighbors
is in strict accordance  with  our  teachings, for
children  even when very small will notice very
particularly the actions of their parents and if
they see any traits  of  dishonesty  in  their par-
ents in any way they seem to take up  with that
at the first glance, ofton-while young, but some-
times when they grow older they see the wrong
and turn away, from  such  a  course.  What an
awful censure  it  would  produce  in  our  own
breast to have our son  condemned  to  death by
law, or imprisoned for life, to have him state, as
some have done, that their mother had screened
and protected  them  in  many,  you  might say
small  wrongs,  when  very  young,  and  they
would  go into their neighbor’s orchard or melon
patch.  If their father did  not  allow  such  con-
duct, and  he  was  informed  of it, the mother
would say “I do not want my  children  to steal,
but I cannot blame the boys if they  do take his
fruit for he has plenty  of  it  and  will  not give
them any of it;” or if they should find anything
and know whom the owner  was, if the mother
would  lay it away  and  never  make  the child
take it to the owner, and never  let  the  father
know anything about it, which is very wrong in-
deed, and one wrong leads  to  another, and get-
ting out of  one  wicked deed, very  easy,  gives
children more confidence  that they can get out
of another still a little larger  until  finally, per-
haps they come to the gallows or some bad end,
and then blame  their  too indulgent  mother or
father. But there are two extremes  in raising
children; while some  parents are  too indulgent
others are very stern and  severe beyond reason,
and seem to forget that they were once children
themselves; and  as  Paul  said  when he was a
child he acted as a child, but when  he became
a man he put away  childish things.We have
to look over  a  good  many  of  their  innocent,
childish ways, but we  cannot  be too particular
in watching over them and teaching them not to
act wickedly  in  anything.  There is great re-
sponsibility resting upon the mothers as well as
the fathers.  My dear sisters, as we were placed
here upon  this  earth  to  become  helpmeets to
our husbands  we  should  stand  by their side
and battle for right,  and  never allow ourselves
under any  circumstances  to  speak  one  word
against any principle that the Lord has revealed
through his prophets for his people to be govern-
ed by in  these  last  days.  Our  settlement  is
small, but we have good  meetings  here  in our
Relief Society, and a good  peaceable spirit pre-
valls among the  sisters,  and  we  are  trying to
carry out the counsel of those  whose  duty it is
to counsel, as fast as we can, which may we ever
continue to do. 		CYNTHIA ANN JOLLEY
	Mt. Carmel, May 2, 1830.


ORGANIZATION OF SERICULTURE.

	Brother Daniel Graves, with Sisters E. R.
Snow Smith, Zina D. Young and M. I. Horne,
visited the Relief Society, of Mill Creek, for the
purpose of organizing the silk association.
	Under the direction of Bishop Reuben Miller,
Mrs. Margaret White was chosen president,
Mrs. Elizabeth Hill and Mrs. Ann Morgan,
counselors; Mrs. Elizabeth Carlisle, secretary,
and Mrs. Mary Samuels, treasurer. All were
unanimously sustained. After which Mrs.
Elizabeth Hill resigned and Miss E. S. Carlisle
was chosen second counselor. The majority of
the officers have been practically engaged in the
work.		ELIZABETH CARLISLE, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		3


A FEW THOUGHTS.

What though our nation hate us
	And with the Saints contend?
And Babylonish customs,
	Our phalanx strong would rend?
We will still extend our borders,
	And make our bulwarks strong,
For the keys of truth and knowledge,
	Do unto the Saints belong.
They drove us from our Temples,
	That we had reared with toil;
Compelled to seek for shelter,
	In a more congenial soil.
We crossed the Rocky mountains,
	And many a sandy plain,
And suffered much privation,
	Because there was no rain.
And many a barren desert,
	Our weary feet have trod
To find a habitation,
	Where we could worship God.
We've settled here in Utah,
	Where the skies are clear and bright.
And built our habitations,
	In which we do delight.
We've built up many cities,
	Four temples are in view;
Which show to Jew and Gentile,
	What Mormon hands can do.
Our sons are growing mighty,
	Upon this fruitful sod;
To build these holy Temples,
	Unto the Lord our God.
							THOMAS MORRIS
One of the Mormon Battalion.


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

Dear Aunt Em:

	I was both amused and interested when I read
your "Midnight Soliloquy," and hoped you
would give us more, and of the days "When you
went gipsying." It took me back to the dear home
of my childhood, although it is far away over the 
ocean, and in fancy I saw all the old familiar
spots where I delighted to run and gather the 
fragrant wild flowers, and smell the sweet scent
of new mown hay. And I reflected like this:
What if we had never heard the sound of the
Gospel, or having heard had not obeyed, what
would have been our lot in life? But having
embraced it in my youth, for the love of it, I am
now blessed with a kind husband, good and af-
fectionate children, all "born in the covenant,"
and a comfortable home in these peaceful vales,
which I would not exchange for all the fleeting
pleasures of the world. And who is there that
enjoys such thorough contentment and peace of
mind as the Latter-day Saints? feeling a securi-
ty in the valleys, or, as they are rightly called,
"chambers of the Lord," some of them may well
be compared to chambers, surrounded as they
are by towering hills and lofty mountains.
	I think that problem, "There is no excellence
without labor," must now be solved to your un-
derstanding, and had you not given heed to that
inward monitor, but had continued in your day
dreaming you might not have been as well pre-
pared to fill the position you now occupy as you
are. Trusting you may never grow faint in
spirit,
	Believe Me, Yours Truly,		E. B.

				ST. GEORGE, May 15, 1880.

Dear Editor:

	As it was decided some time ago to only send
an annual report of our Stake Conference, our 
much respected President, Minerva Snow,
thought it would be well to address you a few
lines, if only to let you know that we are still
interested in all that pertains to the welfare of
Zion, and are endeavoring to work to that end.
	The Relief Societies are (as far as we are post-
ed) in a healthy and prosperous condition. We
meet every two weeks to make quilts, sew car-
pet rags, knit socks or anything that is needed,
and on the first Thursday of every month we
have a joint meeting, which is really the most in-
teresting, as the time is devoted to speaking, and 
many who go, feel well repaid for the time spent
and realize that they have had a spiritual feast,
and that the Lord blesses his daughters as well
as his sons, with his Spirit when they rely on him.
There are many good sisters who would like to
attend, but are detained at home by domestic
duties and the care of little ones, but these are
not forgotten.
	Our last meeting was devoted to the subject
of silk culture. President McAllister was pre-

[Column 2]
sent, and gave some good advice; also Bishop D.
H. Cannon. He advised the sisters to take care
of what worms they had, but not to increase
them until more mulberry trees could be plant-
ed, so as to have plenty to feed them on; said he
would donate towards buying a lot and assist in
planting trees.	*	*	*
	We had hoped ere this to have had the plea-
sure and benefit of a visit from Sister E. R.
Snow and other sisters who accompany her, but
we will have patience and hope on, and as the
railroad is coming nearer, it will not be such an
arduous journey or take as much time.
	We have had quite severe weather the pastwinter for this country, and considerable sick-
ness, but at present the general health is good
and the weather delightful, except when the
wind blows. We are in hopes the summer will
not be as sultry as the last on account of there
being large quantities of snow in the mountains.
There is one thing we have superior to what you
have in Salt Lake City, and that is the singing
of the birds. We have the mocking bird and
wild canary, with many others, who give us a
morning serenade, and they have their liberty,
which seems much better than to shut them up
in cages.
	Lest I weary you with too lengthy a commu-
nication, I will close, with kind regards,
			Believe Me Your Sister,
					E. BENTLEY, Cor. Sec.

		BRIGHAM CITY, Apache County,
					Arizona, May 2d, 1880.
Mrs, E.B. Wells:
	Dear Sister.—Your interesting and valuable
paper comes duly by course of mail and is a great
source of comfort and consolation to us, situated
as we are in this far-off and rather isolated coun-
try. We are thankful for good mail facilities
which bring at an early date the proceedings and
moves that are made by our brethren and sisters
in the north.
	It is a great source of comfort and rejoicing to
know of the generous moves that have been
made at this Conference in behalf of the "Lord's
poor," "for the poor ye have always with you,"
as if to say there would always be an opportuni-
ty for the rich, or more fortunate ones to bestow
of their substance for charitable purposes. I feel
that the Saints are being blest, and will be ac-
cording to their diligence in keeping all of the
commandments, but when it says in breaking
one ye break all, we sometimes think the Lord is
too strict; and our authorities wish to bind us
and take away our freedom. We are free to act,
we have our agency there is no compulsion, but
God is and will be just and merciful, and while
we are presuming on his mercy, let us be careful
not to arouse the indignation of an offended
Father, Friend and Benefactor who has called
us all the day long and entreated us to hearken.
The Word of Wisdom, President Young said,
was a commandment. Do we heed his words?
Can we trample with impunity upon them?
Shall we not lack oil in our vessels if we do not
observe this law of heaven in connection with
others. We as a people have commenced a new
era and proclaimed a jubilee, let us try with re-
newed diligence to emancipate ourselves from
the errors into which some of us have incau-
tiously fallen. We have a Relief Society here,
a Young Men's and Young Ladies' Association;
hold weekly meetings—have conjoint monthly
meetings. The Wreath is issued semi-monthly,
edited by the young ladies.
	With many prayers for your success; we de-
sire an interest in your prayers that we may be
numbered among the faithful in Zion.
			Yours with respect,
						ELIZABETH SMITH.


[Column 1]
PIPSEY PAPERS.

NO. XIII.

	Our EXPONENT comes to hand freighted with
good things, as usual, and as I glance over its
columns and learn from the pens of my sister
writers the thoughts and aspirations that occupy
their minds, my heart swells with enthusiasm,
and I long to join hands with them and say how
fully I appreciate their feelings and ideas.
	I know not if woman will be acknowledged in
a higher sphere, but I do know that she must-
work for her own enfranchisement. I do not
know if she is yet ready to hold position in polit-
ical circles, but there is a wide field before her
in which to labor for the elevation of her sex
Ignorance and folly meet us in every path of life
Woman must raise herself from the bonds of

[Column 2]
rror, and strive to enlighten her mind, that her
understanding may be enlarged and her sphere
of usefulness will grow broader and fuller. As
the wife, the mother, the friend, her influence is
felt in all circles; but before she can govern,
must she not learn the essential elements of gov-
ernment? If there be women in this world ma-
terially different from those who come under our
own observation, I cannot say. But as far as
my observation extends, I see them laboring
from a common standpoint. First, home and its
duties call their attention, and they seem
fitted to shine more pre-eminently in social than
political circles. If, to hold a higher position or
serve a higher law, woman must mingle in the
politics of the day, must soil her mind or man-
ners with the grosser elements which fill the
lower organizations of the political circles, then
I would say, God forbid. But if there be those
whom education and circumstances qualify for
holding offices, the salary of which would en-
able them to support themselves in comfort and
honor, should they be denied the position
simply because it is a government office, paid by
the revenue of the State or Territory? Such a
thing seems rank injustice. How many wo-
men support themselves by teaching? Does not
that call for intelligent labor, quite as much as
many of the offices which are in the disposition
of government? Does it not also tax a woman's
time quite as much?
	That woman is man's equal I would not affirm
and yet how many women are infinitely his su-
perior. Woman in her own attributes may excel,
and well perform the mission of her kind.
She may be a superior housekeeper, a judicious
and loving mother, an accomplished lady in all
womanly attributes; but does man ever aspire
to her position? Man is a ruling spirit, nature
qualified him, for contact with the coarser ele-
ments of life. His capacity of mind and superi-
or strength of physical organization, places him
in ranks which woman's finer nature should
never be forced to tread. I think we all under-
stand this, and few intelligent women would
wish to usurp his position.
Many, however, who are born to man's estate
are not endowed with intelligence to use it wise-
ly, and how many are unfitted by nature to fill
the place in the world allotted to them. If woman
cultivates her higher faculties, her sphere will
be enlarged and her power to do good will ex-
pand with the powers of her mind and moral
faculties. If she earns a place in literature and
is worthy to hold it, why should she not be es-
teemed according to her merit? If she is en-
dowed with a gift for art or science, let her hold
the path her strength may choose to win. It
makes her no less womanly that she is endowed
with a high order of intelligence, and men of
taste and judgment will give her all the honor
that is due. Let us then press forward and en-
large the sphere that is given us, wherein to
labor, train our children in the ways of right-
eousness and fit them for honor and esteem. If
our lives fall short of the goal we are ambitious 
to attain, let us strive to exalt them to a posi-
tion wherein they may reach a higher plane and
more exalted sphere.
	Through all the organizations of nature we
find every object formed for a distinct purpose.
Is any one less perfect of its kind because it does
not fill the mission of another?
	That man, under all circumstances, does not
hold his true position to woman is too evident.
That he holds his superior strength to oppress
and degrade her, is a wrong to which every pulse
thrills with indignation, as we reflect upon it. If
higher political rights would give her better
strength for self-protection, then we would pray
that God in his own way and time, would open
the way whereby she might obtain them. In
the meantime, let us labor for our moral and
spiritual advancement, that we may the more
perfectly acquit ourselves of the duties which
lie before us.
	It is a blessing, perhaps, that we were defeat-
ed in the object we were striving for and denied
the exercise of political rights. A too easy suc-
cess might have inflated our self-esteem, and
crowded us into positions we were unqualified to
fill.
	Our brethren need not fear that we shall wrest
the sceptre from them, for wisdom of the
Almighty prevails, and each will be ennobled in
the position he or she is called to occupy. If my
heart is filled with melody and my soul inspired
to songs, why should not my voice be heard,
even though I am not a Milton or Mendelssohn.
God in his infinite wisdom understands the jus-
tice or these things, and will bless the efforts of
those who strive in the right manner to enlarge
upon the talents which He has bestowed.
									MARY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN’S 'EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, -  -  -  -  Editor.
 Published  semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms:  One copy one yer, $2.00; one copy six month
1.00   Ten  copies  for teh price of nine. Advertisin
rates:  Each square, ten  lines  of  nonparell space, on
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00.	A [--]eral discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Offic, Lower  West  Room  of  the Council
House,  South  Temple Street.	Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN"S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah
_________________________________________________
			SALT LAKE CITY, JUNE 1, 1880


THE BIRTHDAY OF BRIGHAM YOUNG.

	June, flowery June, the month of roses and
of bloom. The first day of this pleasant month
should be specially endeared to this people, be-
ing the anniversary of the birth of their beloved
prophet and illustrious, former leader Brigham
Young. His name will be held in honored rd-
membrance down to the latest generation, as-
sociated with the peculiar exigencies of the
Latter-day Saints in the mobbings and drivings
they have suffered. In the exodus from Nauvoo
he enacted well the part of a modern Moses,
leading this people out from bondage and op-
pression, and pioneering them into the heart of
the Great American Desert, and founding the
Territory of Utah, a remarkable country of
which the half is not yet known; and whose
future history will no doubt develop that which
will reflect greater glory upon its founders, both
men and women, than has as yet been been ac-
corded to them. They may yet be recognized,
as the London Times once called them "a na-
tion of heroes."
	The memory of this heroic man should be kept
fresh in the hearts of the children now growing
up in Zion. They should become acquainted
with his great and strong characteristics, that
were so apparent to all who knew him,even those
who did not believe in the principles he had
embraced, and to which he devoted his life, and
his energies. His determination, his untiring
zeal, his great forethought and caution, were all
brought to bear with admirable force in the life.
work in which he so eminently succeeded. He
possessed the true genius of a man born to lead,
and was therefore a fit instrument in the hands
of the Almighty to bring his people up
into the valleys of the mountains, that they
might there raise an ensign to the nations ac-
	ording to the Prophet Isaiah.
	The Saints will ever cherish his mem-
ory and teach their children to em-
ulate his greatness. President Young al-
ways had something practical to say to mo-
thers, in regard to their life and health, and the
care and training of their children. He seemed
to enter into the smallest details of every day
life and appreciate trifles as perfectly as the great-
er and more important questions with which
he had to deal. He possessed the greatest ver-
satility and adaptability of character of any man
we have ever known. He was greatly and sin-
cerely beloved by the Saints, and as strongly
hated by his enemies, or the opposers of the
work in which he was ardently and devoutly
interested and earnestly engaged. Blessed be
the memory of this great, good and wise man.
Let us all strive to follow in the path he trod,
and be as true to the principles of salvation, and
as zealous to obey them,unto death as he was.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE have several times requested our contrib-
utors to be sure and write on one side of the paper
only.  This  is  a rule  every  one  who  writes for
the press should understand and observe.

	MRS. Ann  Wheeler presented  us  with  a  fra-
grant bouquet of  wild  flowers  for  the office, for
which we tender our sincere  thanks, more espe-
cially as we have not the leisure time to ramble
over the hills to gather them, which  we should
very much like to do.

	A GREAT many  leading  suffrage women have
gathered at Chicago from all parts of the United
States  to  attend  the  presidential  convention
and urge the claims of women citizens to a voice
in the selection  of their  own  rulers.  They are
pretty sure to  do  some  good,  strong  work, as
they most certainly have the requisite executive
ability in their ranks.  We  say  success  to  the
women citizens.

	WE have been requested by Mrs.  M.  Isabella
Horne, President of the Relief  Societies  of the
Salt Lake Stake of Zion, to ask the  secretaries of
all the branches  of  Relief  Society  in this Coun-
ty to furnish and forward a definite and full sta-
tistical  account  of  their respective Society for
the Sisters’ Quarterly  Conference,  to  be  held
about the 21st of this month.  Be  particular  to
state the number of  officers and members, as the
Secretary of the Stake wishes to make a full  re-
port for the Stake Conference.  Any  business
transactions should also be clearly reported.  Be
sure and send in the reports at any early date,
all directed to the care of this Office.

	THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT has now entered
upon its ninth year.  We  regret  we  could  not
bring out the first number in  its new dress, but
ere long we hope it  will  make a more pleasing
appearance.  We  would  respectfully  urge  the
sisters who are interested in advancing the inte-
rests and  promoting the  welfare of the  women
of this  kingdom  to  use  their influence for the
wider circulation of the EXPONENT.  Only a few,
comparatively, take it,  whereas  it  should be in
every home  of  the  Saints  where  there  are
mothers or daughters.  It  is  really  a woman’s
paper and is in a certain  sense  the written his-
tory of Mormon  women, their life,  work and
labors.  Sisters, subscribe  for  your  own paper,
and thus help to sustain it.
	THE new silk factory, situated on  City Creek,
just this side the residence of Dr. J. R. Park, is
now nearly completed.  The building is of brick,
with a  good,  substantial  rock  foundation;  the
largest room where the machinery will be put up,
is 21 feet by 18 feet, aud has four  large  windows,
and  the  ceiling  is  10  feet  high.  The smaller
room, intended for reeling purposes, is 6 feet by
18 feet, and will accommodate two reels and two
persons at each reel. The building  is well ven-
tilated.  The machinery  is on  the  premises and
will be properly put up next week.  There is a
good water power, and the water-wheels seem to
be well built and  strong.  Around  the  factory
on the grounds, 460 mulberry  trees  have  been
put in, some of them quite a good size.  The space
will admit of 800 trees.


SUMMER MUSIC SCHOOL.

	On the 21st  of  June, Dr.  Ellen  B. Ferguson
will  open  a special  course in vocal and instru-
mental music, in the Utah Conservatory of Mu-
sic, for  the  benefit  of  those who cannot devote
much time  to  these  studies  during the regular
school year.
	Daily private lessons will be given on Piano or
Organs, and daily classes held in musical theory,
harmony, note reading and voice culture, mak-


ing the course the  most  complete  ever  offered
to musical students, and guaranteeing the great-
est  advancement  in  the  shortest  time.  The
course will continue eight weeks  and  consist of
forty lessons in each branch.
	Terms:—Instrumental music  on  Piano or Or-
gan, forty  lessons  with  theory,  $15.00;  Vocal
Culture, solo and chorus singing, $8.00.
	Pupils admitted for one half  the course at the
same rates. 
		Dr. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
							Director.


OBITUARIES.
	Died, in Tooele, City,  of diphtheria,  May 12,
1880,  Mary  Ann  Spiers,  beloved  daughter of
George and Janet Spiers, and  granddaughter of
John Lyon, of Salt Lake  City, aged  18 years, 4
months and 28 days.
	In memory of our much respected and beloved
sister, who has been removed from our midst by
the hand of our Heavenly  Father, who giveth
and taketh away  at his  own  will and pleasure,
we desire  to say she was much beloved and re-
spected by all who knew her; she was a counsel-
or in the Y. L. M. I.  Association and a teacher
in the Sunday School.
	Be it Resolved,  That the members of the As-
sociation deeply mount her  loss and sympathize
with the bereaved parents, relatives, and friends
in the loss of so good and esteemed a friend and
beloved daughter.
	Resolved, That  these resolutions  be  given  to
the parents of the  deceased  and be recorded in
our General Record Book and  also furnished for
publication in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
							ANN TATE.

	Departed this life on the 3d  inst., in Beaver,
our beloved sister Jane Neyman, after a severe
illnes of three weeks, caused by a paralytic stroke
on the left side, aggravate by a fall in attempt-
ing to rise from her bed, which bruised her and 
caused  great  soreness.  Deceased  was  born in
Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania, September
21st, 1792.  She  embraced  the  gospel  in  1838;
came to Nauvoo  in  the  year  1840,  where  she
buried  her  companion,  a  good,  faithful man,
true to his family and his religion.  She married
the second time a brother, Fisher, attended him
faithfully through  a  lingering  illness; he died,
and four  other members of her  family  in  one
year.  To relate  her  sufferings  in  poverty and
persecution would occupy too much  space here,
but the Prophet Joseph Smith was her unvary-
ing  friend; he  rebuked  those  who  falsely  slan-
dered her; her calling was to nurse the sick, and
faithfully did  she  discharge  that  duty.  She
crossed the plains at the time when the cholera
raged fearfully  in  the  camp,  and  many  were
buried by the wayside.  Mother Neyman shrank
not from the hazardous task of administering to
the victims of that disease, both  temporally  and
spiritually,  believing that  if  she  did  all  in  her
power  to save others, the Lord would spare her,
and thus it proved.  She  lived  to  do  good,  to
wash anoint and nurse hundreds of her sex, to
soothe and comfort their hearts, to which office
she was set apart by the holy priesthood, and in 
many  instances, through  her  faith,  was  the
power of God manifested in a marvelous manner.
The writer knew her intimately  for  more  than
thirty years, and never did I know of her wav-
ering in her faith in regard to one single ordin-
ance,  or  principle  in  this  kingdom. Mother
Neyman was President of the Relief Society  of
Beaver  in  its  first  organization;  was a  wise
counselor, untiring in  her efforts  to  relieve the
wants of the needy; being aged when  the  busi-
ness of the Society had greatly  increased, she
chose to resign  her  office  to one  younger and


stronger, still continuing to visit and bless the
sick, and bless them she did in very deed. In
her last illness her spirit seemed often com-
muning with persons gone behind the vail
often calling those who visited her by the 
names of people long gone to the spirit world.
She had for a long time been very hard of hear-
ing; many prayers have been offered for her that
the affliction might be removed. She had be-
gun to hear better, and after the stroke could
hear as well as she ever did in her life. The
burden of her desires were that when she en-
tered the home of the redeemed, she might hear
the welcome applause, "Well done, good and
faithful servant, thou hast fought the good fight,
hast kept the faith, hast done thy work, and
done it well, enter thou into the joy of they
Lord." As she drew near the close, she repeat-
ed a verse of a favorite hymn:

"The soul who on Jesus has leaned for repose,
I will not, I cannot, desert to his foes;
That soul, tho' all hell should endeavor to shake,
I'll never; no never, no never forsake."

	She leaves two faithful daughters, who were
greatly attached to her, a host of grandchildren,
and several of the fourth generation. Long will
they miss her in the family circle, and greatly
shall we miss her in our society meetings. Sweet
be the sleep of her we loved.
							L. B. PRATT.

	Sister Truelove Ward, widow of the late
Thomas Ward. who departed this life in Spanish
Fork, April 19th, 1880, was born May 24th, 1802;
embraced the gospel in Leicester, England, May
24th, 1852, and emigrated to Utah in 1864. She
was a faithful member of the Relief Society of
Spanish Fork. Her cheerful disposition, kind-
ness and integrity to the principles of the gospel
endeared her to all with whom she associated.
It is difficult to mention the special character-
istics of a life that has been filled with goodness
in the various relationships of wife, mother, and
an active member of the kingdom of God. She
leaves a daughter (Sister Truelove Thompson)
and several grandchildren. She retained her
faculties to the last, and died suddenly while on
a visit to one of her married grand-daughters.
						HANNAH CORNABY.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


EARLY REMINISCENCES.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
[Continued.]
	Among the mob who  surrounded  the  breth-
ren  were  men  who  had  once  professed to be
beloved brethren.  They had  piloted the  mobs
into the city, two  of the  first Twelve Apostles
and  two  of  the  witnesses  to the  Book of Mor-
mon and many others were led by Neil Gillium,
a white man who was  painted  and styled him-
self the "Delaware  Chief."  A  portion  of the
troops  were  also  painted  like  Indians.  They
pointed  their  guns  upon  the  brethren  and
swore  they  would  blow  out  their  brains, al-
though they were disarmed and helpless.  Wil-
liam  E.  McClellen  wanted  to  know  where
Heber C. Kimball was, when some one pointed
him out as he was  sitting  on  the ground.  He
came  up  to  him  and said; "Brother Heber,
what do you think  of  Joseph  Smith the fallen
prophet now?  Has he not  led you  blindfolded
long enouth; look  and see  yourself,  poor, your
family  stripped  and  robbed and you brethren
in the same fix, are you satisfied  with Joseph?"
He  replied,  "Yes,  I  am  more satisfied  with
him, a hundred fold, than ever I was before, for
I see you in the  very  position  that he foretold
you would be in;  a Judas to  betray your  breth-
ren, if you  did  not  forsake your adultery, lying,
and abominations.  Where are you and Hinkle
and scores  of others;  have  you  not  betrayed
Joseph and his brethren  into  the hands of the
mob,  as  Judas  did  Jesus?  Yes,  verily  you
have; I tell you Mormonism is true, and  Joseph
is  a  true  prophet  of  the  living God, and you
with  all  others  who  turn  therefrom  will be
d----d and go to  h--l and Judas  will  rule over
you."
	Most of  the brethren  had been without food
for twenty-four hours, not having time  to go to
their  houses  before they were taken  prisoners,
and  when  things  began  to be a little  more
quiet my  father desired to go to his home  as
he had been without food  for many hours.  He
asked some who were standing near, if he could
have  the  privilege  of  going  to  his  house
a  little  distance  off;  they  referred  him
to their Captain- Bogart, the Methodist preach-
er, he went to him and told him what he want-
ed.  Bogart first spoke of sending some one with
him, as he would be liable to  be  shot  down  if
found alone, but in a short time said, "I will go
with you."  This happened the day after we had
stayed all night with Sister Mary  Smith.  My
mother prepared dinner  after  they  came,  and
Bogart ate and laughed and  chatted  as  though
he had been an  invited guest.  They  then  re-
turned to  where the brethren  were  still under
guard.  They were released  the  next  day,  but
could not leave the city as it was surrounded by
a strong guard.  The Saints who had fled to Far
West brought  with them  what  they  could, in
their haste.  Their stock were running loose in
the streets, and during  that  time  all  had the
privilege of killing if they were in need.  During
this  time I remember of but once eating wheat
bread.  I took the wheat and went to one of  our
neighbors who owned a large coffee mill and were
kind  enough  to let  us use it, and it took  me a
good portion of the day  to grind sufficient  for a
short cake.  My mother made it for supper  and
my father often spoke of  it  afterward  as  being
the best cake he ever ate. It contained bran and
all.  We had  an abundance of  milk and  honey
and hulled corn, and  were blessed  with  health
and  excellent appetites, with  the exception  of
my  mother,  whose  health  was delicate.  The
evening after  the  brethren were released, my
oldest brother was sent a short  distance  on  an
errand, and before he returned, a guard had been
set near our house.  At my  brother's  approach
the guard drew his rifle and  threatened  to blow
out his brains, if he stepped one inch further to-
wards the house.  Through the agency  of some
friend; father was notified of it.  He went to the
man and spoke to him in a friendly manner and
conversed with him about the beautiful country,
so much  more  so  than  England,  or  any  of
the countries or nations he  had  been  travel-
ing in.  The guard  became  very  much  in-
terested  when  father  pointed  out  his
son telling him that was his boy, and he said,
"If that is your son he may pass, he may go
home."  That  evening  he  left  his  post  and
spent the whole evening at our house, and came
a number of  times afterward  and  tried  to per-
suade  my  parents  to  leave  the "cursed  Mor-
mons," told them they were too good  to  follow
such a d----d set, etc.  William McClellen also
came and  spent an evening, and seemed to feel
a lingering  regard  for  father, notwithstanding
he had given him  so  sharp  a rebuke he  plead
with him to leave the  deluded  Mormons.  We
had not  been  in  Far West  over  three  weeks
when  the  mobbing  commenced, and  in  the
bleak month of February we started in company
with Brigham  Young  and  family  and  several
others who left  on the 14th.
	My father remaining behind  to  help the poor
Saints in getting away, as  well as  to  assist the
Prophet and his brethren in making their escape
from prison.  He being  almost a stranger there
could stay with less danger  than Bro. Brigham,
who was obliged to keep  himself  disguised, and
he was seen but little with us in the  day  time.
We suffered considerably from cold at  the start,
as  the  people  for  some  distance  around  Far
West were very  bitterly  opposed to  the "Mor-
mons."  The day  we started  the  weather was
terrible, and my mother and Sister Young, with
their children, stopped at a house and asked the
privelege of  warming  themselves.  There were
no  men, only  women there, but  they  began
talking about the horrible "Mormons" and eyed
us very closely.  Sister Young  and my  mother
appeared to believe all they said, and looked hor-
rified and  we  children  imitated  them.  We
found some  who  were  more  humane and we
were allowed the privilege of  staying  all night,
at other times we were  obliged  to content  our-
selves with a  fire  by  the  roadside.  Our  bed-
room was one little wagon, which  contained all
we had left.  One day in particular I remember
was so cold  we  were obliged  to  walk  to  keep
from freezing.  My  oldest  brother, who drove
our  cow,  had  gone  ahead,  and  becoming
very  sleepy  in  consequence  of  the  cold,
got  off  from  his  horse,  and  putting  the
bridle over his arm laid down to sleep. Dr. Levi
Richards, who was  traveling  with  us, and had
also gone ahead of the  wagons, soon  overtook
him, and by hard shaking and a few well mean-
ing blows, which  made  him  angry  enough to
fight, started the blood to  circulating and saved
his life.  We soon after arrived at Bishop Vin-
cent Knight's house, where  his feet were found
to be badly frozen.  We  remained  there  until
the next morning.  The Lord was with us, and
although  we  never heard  from  my  father for
nearly  three  months, yet  we found friends as
the Lord told him that we should.  We crossed
the  Mississippi  to  the  town  of  Atlas.  There
through  the instrumentality of  Bro.  George
Pitkin, my  mother  was introduced to a  widow
by  the  name  of  Ross, who let her have a nice
room and the privilege of cooking in her kitchen,
and was as kind to her as an own mother or sis-
ter.  She seemed  greatly  interested in her his-
tory, and  wanted  to  introduce her to her most
intimate friends.  A very sweet lady, a relative
of hers, who was also a widow, manifested much
sympathy and invited us to  her beautiful  home
where we were treated  with the greatest polite-
ness.  They appeared to look upon my mother as
one who had known better days. Bro. Brigham
rented a  vacant storehouse for his family a few
rods from us. We tarried there seven weeks and
only had to pay fifty cents a week.  At the end
of that time  John P.  Greene  came  and moved
us up to Quincy and rented a comfortable room.
My father in his journal says: "My family having
been  gone  about  two  months,  during  which
time I heard nothing from them.  Our brethren
being in prison, death and destruction following
us wherever we went, I felt very  sorrowful and
lonely.  The following words came to me, and
the  spirit  said  unto  me  write, which I did by
taking a piece of paper and writing on  my knee
as  follows: Far  West, April 6,  1839.  A word
from the Spirit  of  the  Lord  to my servant He-
ber C. Kimball.  Verily, I say unto my servant
Heber: Thou  art  my  son, in whom I am well
pleased;  for  thou  art  careful  to hearken to my
words and  not  transgress  my  law, nor rebel
against my servant Joseph, for  thou hast a re-
spect to the words of mine anointed, even from
the least to the greatest  of  them;  therefore thy
name is written in Heaven  no  more to be blot-
ted out forever because of  these things;  and my
spirit and blessing shall rest down upon thy pos-
terity forever and forever, for they shall be called
after thy name, for thou shalt  have many more
sons  and  daughters,  for  thy  seed shall be
numerous as the sands upon the sea shore, there-
fore my servant Heber, be  faithful, go forth  in
my name, and I will  go  with  you,  and  be  on
your right hand and on your left, and my angels
shall go before you and raise you up when  you
are cast down and afflicted; remember that I am
always with you, even to  the end, therefore be
of good cheer, my son, and my spirit shall be  in
your heart to teach you the peaceable things  of
the kingdom; trouble not thyself about  thy fam-
ily, for they are in my hands;  I  will  feed  them
and clothe them and make  unto  them  friends.
They  never  shall want for  food  nor raiment,
houses nor lands, fathers  nor  mothers, brothers
nor sisters, and peace shall rest upon  them  for-
ever, if thou  wilt be faithful  and  go  forth  and
preach my gospel to the nations of  the earth, for
thou shalt  be  blessed  in  this  thing,  and  thy
tongue shall be unloosed to such  a  degree  that
has not entered into they heart as yet, and the
children of  men  shall  believe thy words, and
flock to the water for baptism  even as they did
to my servant John; for thou  shalt  be great in
winning souls to me, for this is thy gift and call-
ing, and there shall be no gift  withheld  from
thee, if thou art faithful, therfore be  faithful
and  I will  give thee favor  in the eyes  of  the
people: be humble and kind and you shall obtain
kindness; be merciful, and you shall obtain mercy,
and I will  be  with  you  even  unto the end.
Amen."
	My father found us at Quincy, Ills., well and
in good spirits, on the 2nd day of May, 1839. He
says: "In reading the words of inspiration  which
I had written, my wife bore record  to  the  truth
of that part which says 'trouble not thyself about
thy family," etc.  She had had no lack of friends
and had every comfort bestowed  upon  her  that
she could have had among her own kindred, and
I say in my heart that God  bless  them  all, and my
brother Brigham for his great kindness in assist-
ing them into Illinois.  God bless all who aided
and assisted my family; for Jesus says every man
shall be rewarded  for every  good  deed  that  he
doeth.  In  relation  to  that  part which  said I
should have many sons and  daughters, my wife
rather doubted that, as she  considered she  was
too far advanced in years, and the  thought  had
never entered her mind, or mine, that the Lord
would establish  in  this  Church the doctrine  of
plurality of wives in our day, still I  believed  it
would be restored to  the  earth at  some future 
time."


6		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS

	The Payson Relief Society held their twelfth
annual meeting May 29th, 1880. President Mar-
garet T. Smoot was present, and her Counselor
Mrs. Mary Johns, also visitors from Spanish
Fork, Salem, Santaquin, Spring Lake and Ben-
jamin.
	After the usual exercises, C. D. Evans, Bishop
of Salem, Elders H. W. Barnett, I. M. Coombs,
addressed the sisters, cheering and comforting
their hearts in their labor of love, feeling that
they are a great blessing to the Ward.
	The Young Ladies of the M. I. Association
being present, much good an dpractical instruc-
tion was given to them, showing how great was
their mission on this earth; that they should
strive to live so as to have power from on high to
teach and nurture the noble spirits that are
coming forth, heirs to the kingdom and destined
to be mighty in rolling forth this great work of
the latter days.
	President M. T. Smoot was pleased with the
remarks of the brethren and wished she had the
same ability as the brethren that preceded her;
was pleased with the remarks of Brother Coombs
respecting the silk, for that was part of the Gos-
pel and the will of the Lord to us. We have
everything to encourage us. Prayed that the
Spirit of the Lord might rest upon the sisters.
Counselor M. Johns endorsed all that had been
said, and that it should be our aim to press for-
ward with all the ability we have. Many of us
do not realize the day in which we live.
	President Jane Simons felt thankful for the
remarks that had been made. There were pres-
ent Presidents from several Relief Societies in
the surrounding settlements, also brethren that
she would like to hear from, but time would not
permit.
	After singing, prayer was offered by Elder
Barry Wride.
	Over 200 children then convened in the meet-
ing-house, looking bright and happy. After va-
rious exercises, such as recitations, reading of the
papers, etc., which were very creditable, they
were very agreeably surprised in partaking of a
picnic prepared for the occasion by the Presiding
Teachers of the districts. The little folks felt
proud of belonging to the Primary Association.
	The EXPONENT is a welcome visitor with us
							M. A. HARDY.

			PARIS. BEAR LAKE.

	The members of the first and second ward
Primary Associations of Paris met and held
their first anniversary in the Paris first Ward
meeting house, on Tuesday at one o'clock, May
18, 1880.
	Present by invitation Apostle C. C. Rich,
Bishop H. J. Horne, Elder R. S. Horne, Sister
Julia Lindsey, President, and Sister Maria
Rich, Counselor of the Relief Society of this
Stake and quite a number of the parents of the
children.
	Meeting called to order by Sister H. B.
Humphrey's. Song by a company of little girls
entitled "Welcome to all," Brother R. S. Horne
playing the accompaniment on the organ.
Prayer by Bishop H. J. Horne. Singing, "We
thank thee O God for a prophet." Sister Julia
Lindsey then addressed the children for a short
time, after which there was a reading, recitations,
dialogues and songs by the children.
	The first number of the paper entitled "The
Primary Monthly," (first ward) edited by Mary
A. Rich, was then read by her.
	Sister Maria Rich then spoke a short time to
the children, and urged mothers to be diligent in
sending the children to the meetings.
	Brother C. C. Rich occupied a short time ex-
horting the children to obedience, etc..
	Singing, "Do what is right." Benediction by
Brother R. S. Horne. The children then en-
gaged in dancing for a short time. Picnic being
provided by the parents was then passed
around. Dancing till six p.m., when all dis-
presed feeling that they had enjoyed themselves
very much. Number of children present 97.
	Names of the officers, first ward, President,
Elizabeth Nye; Alvira Ricks, Mary A. Rich,
Counselors. Second ward—H. B. Humphrey's,
President; Alice Athey, Sarah Clifton, Coun-
selors; Ellen Price Secretary.
					LOTTIE INNES, Sec'y

	The second Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Societies of Wasatch Stake of Zion was held at
Heber City, April 30th, 1880, Mrs Emma Brown
presiding. After the usual opening exercises,
the minute of the last conference were read and
accepted; the reports of the several wards were

[Column 2]
also read, also reports for the Y. L. M. I. and
Primary Associations; all the reports, both ver-
bal and written, showing each respective society
in a prosperous condition. There was a good at-
tendance, many of the brethren were present,
from whom we received much good and valu-
able instructions. The sisters all seem to be
alive to their duties and callings and always
ready to look after the poor and to comfort and
relieve the sick, which is the first duty of the
Relief Societies. Many of the sisters spoke on
the training of our children, that we should
teach them the principles of the Church both
by precept and example, that they may thereby
become good citizens and horoable members in
the Church and Kingdom of God.
	President Hatch spoke a short time. Said the
Relief Societies were helps to the Priesthood, and
if counsel was needed, to go to our Bishop. He
wished the sisters to use their influence to help
establish a High School, that our young men
and ladies might be educated at home, and to
strive and put down drunkenness and other
evils which exist in our midst.
	A vote was taken to sustain a co-operatieve mil-
linery store, to be located in Heber City, which
was carried unanimously.
	President Brown addressed the sisters, coun-
seling them to be faithful in attending to all
their duties, that we may thereby enjoy the
blessings promised to the faithful.
			EMMA BROWN, Stake Presdent.
			MARY BRONSON, Secretary.
		PAROWAN STAKE.

	The Parowan Stake Relief Society held their
Second Quarterly Conference on the 16th of May,
1880, in the Cedar City meeting house, com-
mencing at 10 a. m.  Present on the stand
officers of the Stake and branch presidents of
Parowan, Cedar City, Paragoonah and Summit
branches, also Presidents of the Young Ladies
and Primary Associations, Prest. Henry Lunt,
Bishop C. J. Arthur, and others of the priest-
hood. The hall was filled to overflowing with
brethren and sisters. After the usual exercises
the morning was occupied by the presidents
giving in verbal reports of the different Societies
and Associations over which they presided,
showing that much good was being done and
improvement made. Sister Jane P. Mackel-
prang was voted in as corresponding secretary.
Brothers Wm. Mitchell, Lars Mortensen and
Wm. Holyoak spoke very spiritedly in the inter-
est of our religion and admonished all the gain for
themselves an assurance of the truth of the
work. Thought nothing could assist the breth-
ren more than the influence of a good wife;
encouraged the sisters to continue in
well doing and the Lord would bless them.
Prest. Ellen Lunt made a few remarks, desiring
the sisters to spend their time in doing good.
	In the afternoon, after opening exercises, sac-
rament was administered,and the time occupied
by several of the sisters speaking on the princi-
ples of our holy religion—polygamy, Word of
Wisdom, home industries, etc., all expressing a 
desire to do all the good they could, that they
might have a claim to the reward in store for
the faithful. Pres. Ellen Lunt said the time had
been well spent and that she would bear testi-
monty that much good had been done and a
marked improvement made by the sisters since
the first organization of a society in Cedar City,
which took place in November, 1856, and was
called the Female Benevolent Society, with 95
members, of whom there were only 14 now re-
maining in this place. A few years afterward
the President, Sister Lydia Hopkins, departed
this life. The meetings were discontinued, and
in June, 1868, the Relief Society was organized
with 56 members. A great many others have
been added since, who have done a great
amount of good. President Lunt advised the
young sisters to make the best use of their time,
not to spend it foolishly, so that in future years
when they were called hence they would have
nothing to regret. Bore her testimony to the
truth of plural marriage. Referred to this as
being the year of jubilee and counseled the sis-
ters to assist and relieve each other, as well as
the poor, thus making it a continual jubilee.
	Bishop C. J. Arthur made some pleasing and
good remarks; said that it was a source of great
pleasure to see the sisters stand forth in defence
of the principles of their religion.
	President Henry Lunt reviewed the meetings
of the day with much pleasure and spoke in an
interesting manner of the beauty and wisdom of
God as shown through his servants in the dif-
ferent organizations in the Church of Christ on
the earth.

[Column 3]
	Conference adjourned till Saturday, the 14th
of August next, to be held in Paragoonah, Iron
County.
	The congregation stood upon their feet, and
with the choir, sang the Doxology, "Praise God
from whom all blessings flow." Benediction was
pronounced by our Patriarch and President,
Henry Lunt who dismissed all with his bless-
ing; after which, the young men of the brass
band struch up a lively air, while the brethren
and sisters from the surroundings settlements
started on their homeward journey and the rest
to their several homes.
		ELLEN W. LUNT, President,
		JANE P. MACKELPRANG, Cor. Sec.
	Cedar City, May 20th, 1880

	A Quarterly Conference of the Relief Society
of Sanpete County was held at Ephraim, May
17, 1880. It should have been an annual confer-
ence but on account of secretaries failing to for-
ward their reports in time, and some not at all,
a condensed report for the year could not be
made until next conference.
	Conference was opened by singing, prayer and
singing. Reports of R. S., P. A. and Y. L. M. I.
A. were read. The several societies were also
verbally reported as being in a good ondition.
President E. R. Snow and Counselors were
unanimously sustained in their places.
	Many excellent instructions were given by the
sisters who spoke. The surrent of their remarks
were on the signs of the times, how in this day
cyclones, accidents and crimes are raging
among the nations,and especiallly in our nation,
and more especially where our people have been
mobbed and drien, our prophets martyred, and
the Saints exiled from their midst, an dnow
they are reaping their reward, and the fulfill-
ment of the prophecies of ancient and modern
prpohets. Much was said of the rich feast and
appropriate and truly heavenly instructions
given by the three apostles, Wilford Woodruff,
Erastus Snow, and Brigham Young, also others
who addressed the late conference.
	Pres. Mary Ann Hyde urged all to prepare
and sanctify themselves for the events in the
future which are awaiting the righteous. She,
and her counselors, are stiving with energy to
magnify their calling by traveling through the
Stake, encouraging the sisters to diligence and
faithfulness in the cause for which they are
working.
	Brother Wareham made a few remarks, blessing
and encouraging the sisters. Singing, benedic-
tion. Conference adjourned until August 17,
1880.
			FANNY KOFFORD, Cor. Sec.

				HYRUM,
	Our Relief Society held their annual meeting
on the 10th of May. Our worthy Bishop, O. N.
Liljenquist and a few of our brethren met with
us. Meeting opened with the usual exercises.
After the reading of minutes the secretary read
the report of the Society since its organization,
which was accepted. President Liljenquist made
a few opening remarks. Mrs. F. Stephens re-
presented the Teachers Quorum, spoke encou-
ragingly of the teachers. Miss H. Osborn, Pre-
sident Y. L. M. I. Association reported the As-
sociation trying to improve in good works. Mrs.
L. Wilson, President Primary Association, in-
vited the mothers to attend their meetings and
to send their children. Bishop Liljenquist
Father Osborn, Father Benson, and Brothers C.
C. Shaw and H. E. Nielsen made very interest-
ing remarks, and congratulated us upon the
great amoung of good we had accomplished; gave
very good instructions and encouraged us to per-
severe in the good work we are engaged in. The
officers were then presented and sustained by
the unanimous vote of the Society. Sister C.
Johnson then presented President Liljenquist
with a beautiful set of glass ware, as a small
token of the love and respect of her sisters.
Prest. Liljenquist responded with a few suitable
words, thanking the sisters for their confidence,
and hoping she might prove worthy of their
trust.
	After singing and benediction the brethren
and sisters adjourned to the Relief Society
House, where they sat down to a bounteous re-
past, superintended by Sister C. Johnson. There
were eighty persons present, including our age
brethren, widows, missionaries wives and the
poor. We also remembered the sick, and sent
them to share to cheer and confort them. Each
one enjoyed a happy time and felt that it was
indeed a year of Jubilee.
	I will send our financial report for the twelve
years since our organization.
				M. M. NIELSEN, Secretary.


Balance sheet of Hyrum Relief Society, organ-
ized May 9th, 1868. Our total income during the
twelve years since the organization of the Relief
society is $2,348.25. Disbursements: To mis-
sionaries, $209.22; Perpetual Emigration Fund,
$139.88; sick and needy, $295.29; Temples, $558.-
85; centennial expenses, $33.68; pnblic debt,
$33.40; carpet, clock, .etc., for meeting house,
$89.25; Logan Factory, 25.00; Sabbath Schools,
$14.55; paid for Relief Society house and build-
ing granary, etc., $639.87; sundry expenses,
$106.29; to library, $40.00; total expenses, $2,173.-
28.
	Balance on hand including house and granary,
books, cash on interest $730.30; making a gain
in twelve years of $555.33. We have also 389
bushels of wheat lent out, according to counsel,
to our brethren, to be paid back after harvest.

PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS.

	Annual Report of the Primary Association of
East Bountiful, organized one year ago to-day,
the 19th of April, 1879, with 182 members, in-
creased to 224 during the year. Meetings held
weekly on Saturday afternoons. Average, 48
meetings during the year; average attendance,
125. Cards of merit have been distributed twice
during the year. The exercises of the meet-
ings have been similar to the following: After
the usual opening exercises, remarks are gener-
ally made by our President and Counselors;
then recitations, singing and essays from the
children, and a number of children bear their
testimony; questions asked the children by our
President. They have also learned the ten com-
mandments, a prayer and some poetry; had
reading from the Bible, Book of Mormon and
Doctrine and Covenants, and other select works;
have also taught them some of the first princi-
ples of the gospel.
	Have received from the children on their five-
cent donation the sum of $9.85. We have also
had two concerts and one party; proceeds,$33.90;
full amount of proceeds, $43.75. Paid out for
presents for the children and sundry articles for
the Association the sum of $36.10, and $7.65 left
in the treasury.

Donated to the Relief Society, three bushels
	of wheat, 75 cents per bushel, $2.25
And two bed quilts for the Temple, $4.25
	each,	-	-	-	-	-	-	- 8.50
	Officers of Organization:—President, Mrs.
Ann Dustin; Counselors, Mrs. Mary Evans and
Mrs. Sarah Easthope; Secretary, Miss Olive C.
Sessions; Asst. Secretary, Miss Hannah Call;
Treasurer, Miss Lucina Sessions.

	On the 25th of October last Sister E. R. Snow
visited Morgan and organized the Primary As-
sociation of South Morgan Ward, with your cor-
respondent as president and Ann Fry and
Jeanette Hogg as counselors; 67 names were
enrolled and our first meeting held November
1st, from that time to May 8th we have held 22
meetings, we have now 81 members, and during
this time the members have paid in dona-
tions to the Temple the sum of $10.15 and have
$1.65 on hand. On the 21st of this month we
had an entertainment, forty children taking
part therein which consisted of recitations,
songs, dialogues and speeches, and to help pass
the evening in enjoyment Captain Daniel Bull,
with the brass band, was in attendance, dis-
coursing sweet music whenever called upon.
							HARRIET WELCH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		7


[Column 1]
WHEN WE WENT GIPSYING.

YES, those days were romantic enough for 
the most imaginative and yet the hap-
piness was positively real. In some re-
spects childhood is fairy land and in a certain
sense it is to the ideal mind like the land
of enchantment. Beautiful in the distance as
we glance far back over the blue and gold hill-
tops of memory. Sweet memory, that brings us
by night and by day, visions of the friends and
scenes of other days. How gladly we weave
them into the grey and sombre present, in our 
after life, with its multifold duties, its cares and
its wearisome burdens.
	When we have waded through a deep river
and are securely landed, we can look back and
contemplate its maginficent beauties, but while
we were exerting all our powers to combat the
difficulties in our course to stem the stream, a
swift, flowing current, or perhaps i[--] some parts
a raging torrent, we could not see the beauty, the 
grandeur of the waters, but when we are landed
on the shore secure from danger, we look with

[Column 2]
admiration at the billowy foam and the rippling
wavelets, and mark how beautiful the sunshine
plays and shivers upon its surface.
	There are points of sublimity in life that appal
us in contemplation, that exhaust all our ener-
gies in the struggle for victory; but when we
have passed the ordeal, we wonder how it so en-
vironed and confused us that we realized not the 
grandeur of the awful moment. The full rich-
ness and pathos, and the more just appreciation
of moments full of a wondrous fascination come
to us in our afternoon of life and throw over all,
even the severest struggles, a halo of splendor,
as the reflection of the setting sun clothes with a
graceful violet and purple radiance the eastern
heavens when it approaches the glorious earth,
and mingles as it were in one dreamy, mantling
cloud of gentle beauty. Thus does the effulgence
of our riper years cast its shadow backward and
light up with a beauty almost divine, the earlier
years, coloring them with a ruby tint, causing
them to resemble in the fanciful picture, the
Elysian fields of Paradise.
	Music loud and even discordant is mellowed
by distance. The chime of clamorous bells a
long way off are softened to the ear. So child-
life touched up by the long interval of time
grows quite resplendant and sparkles like old
wine, and refreshes our minds as we recall its re-
collections perhaps even more. We forget in
general the unpleasant things, and remember
only its sweetnesses and its joys. We scent the 
new mown hay, and we ignore the dust, the
fatigue of the hot summer weather. The blue-
bells and daisies were there, we plucked them
and carried them off as a trophy, but we remem-
ber not that the bees, the wasps, the hornets
and alas! even the snakes sometimes daunted us
when we were wont to recline upon the grassy
knolls among the precious flowers and shrub-
bery.
	O, yes, we went gipsying in our young days,
or nutting and berrying, gathering autumn
leaves, and so forth and so on, which amounts to
the same thing. A merry crowd we were, with
full lunch baskets and light hearts, tripping
gaily over the rough pastures or hillsides, climb-
ing on our way the quaint old rail fences, be-
decking ourselves, with floral treasures, singing
in the merriest strains snatches of songs and
rhymes, and querying if gipsies themselves, of 
whom we had read but never seen, enjoyed with
as keen a relish the open air and bright sun-
shine. Sometimes, we kept within proper
bounds, but occasionally we grew reckless with
the spirit of impetuousness, to which youth is
prone, and gave loose rein to romance, which led
us into difficulty, and had not some kind guar-
dian of youth and innocence watched over us,
we might have been beset with direful danger.
	On one occasion, I do remember me, there
was a giddy crowd of country village maidens,
and one solitary city girl, quite a belle among us,
who had come up from Boston to breathe the
country air, to smell the fresh hay in the mead-
ows as it was tossed about, to drink new milk
and eat the coarse brown bread famed in New
England for its health restoring qualities. We
were bent upon having "a good time," and had
wandered far over the fields and into strange
pastures, when we came upon a small lake, or,
as we would term it, a pond, where upon the bank
was moored a little skiff, or small canoe, with
oars alongside. The city girl, whose word was
law with us, and whose ignorance far exceeded
ours in all practical matters, proposed we ven-
ture out in the old boat and gather water-lillies.
Our knowledge of rowing was very inadequate,
as we had been accustomed to trust our brothers
with this part of the pastime, but we deter-
mined to make the attempt. Four of us under-
took to row, but ere' long we found the boat
leaked and was fast filling with water, and in
our desperation we commenced to dip it out
with our leghorn hats. We pulled off the gay
ribbons, cramming them in our pockets, and
baled out the water as fast as possible; but fear
was depicted on every countenance, and we for-
got the water-lillies and all else except our diso-
bedience, our wayward recklessness for fun and
frolic. Sober and thoughtful, we tried to steer
for shore, and tremblingly we watched the sun
go down, and wondered if we should be able to
reach our homes ere nightfall. But fortunately
for us, we had not gone far from shore, but
weary and faint, trembling with cold and our
feet dripping wet, we reached the muddy shore
at a point far from where we "sailed away" so
gaily. A sorry looking crowd we were, and
scrambling out, we left the poor old boat and 
rushed almost wild through bramble and bri-
ars, scarcely daring to think of the danger we
had escaped. And though we had not

[Column 3]spoken of it until we were safely
landed, some of us knew that rumor
said there was a place in the pond that had no
bottom. This was gipysing with a vengeance.
Moral: Never venture beyond what reason and 
good judgment dictate for the sake of frolic and
fun and a "jolly good time." Remember, dis-
cretion is the better part of valor, and keep the
propensity for romance always under the dicta-
tion of sound common sense. If we would always
observe this, many serious perplexities might be
avoided. Many a pun[--]minded young girl has
made a fearful record by indulging in the exces-
sive and uncontrolled love of romance; and the
denouement has often been more thrilling and
sensational than the most imaginative in their 
youthful impulsiveness anticipated. Our strong-
est and wildest passions beautify our life,but they
require skill in their management and the dis-
cipline and restraint, which is only to be obtain-
ed by carefully contrasting them with the stern
realisms of every day experiences.
								AUNT EM.


WOMAN AMONGST THE NEPHITES.

	It is somewhat noticable how little promi-
nence is given to womankind in the historical
narrative of the Book of Mormon, and unfortu-
nately when mention is made of her it too fre-
quently grows out of man's sins and her misfor-
tunes. Of all the descendants of Lehi and Sariah,
but two women are mentioned by name; one,
Abesh, a converted waiting woman to a queen of
the Lamanites; the other, Isabel, a harlot of the
land of Siron, whose meritricious charms seduc-
ed Coreanton, the son of Alma, from the work
of the ministry among the Zoramites.
	Although we have but few individual charac-
ters standing out in relief from the historical
background, yet from many incidental referen-
ces as the story of the Nephites is told, we are
led to the conclusion that women amongst that
people enjoyed a much greater degree of liberty,
and wielded a more powerful influence than they
did amongst contemporary Gentile nations on
the eastern hemisphere—say in Babylon, Persia,
or Greece. We deem this mainly attributable
to two causes, first, the Israelitish origin of the
race; and again, the power and grace with which
the principles of the gospel were preached by a
long succession of prophets, who almost unin-
terruptedly ministered to the seed of Nephi.
That this latter cause had much to do with
woman's pleasing condition amongst that peo-
ple is evident, for we find from the historical
narative that whenever they turned from the
Lord it was then that tribulation and oppression
came upon their wives and daughters, and they
suffered from the iniquities of their husbands
and the savage fury of their enemies. With re-
gard to the first named cause it is generally ad-
mitted that the Hebrew women of antiquity en-
joyed greater liberty and possessed more privi-
leges than did those of the surrounding nations
of the same epoch. Let the Bible and the his-
tory of contemporary nations be compared and
the difference is evident.
	The Nephites lived in a dispensation varying
considerably from that of the Latter-days. They
observed the law of Moses, to which was added
the higher code of the Gospel. Our readers know
how well both these protect the rights of wo-
man, and how sacredly they guard the marriage
covenant; infidelity to that sacred bond of
union being regarded, whether in the man or
the woman, as a most heinous offence, and wor-
thy of the severest penalties.
	At the commencement of the Nephite nation-
al life, when they were few in numbers, they
seem for a time to have been tinctured with
some of the social vices of the now degenerate
people from whom the Lord had separated
them. They committed great immoralities and
took wives for utterly unworthy purposes with-
out the fear of the Lord before their eyes; and
after they had taken them, they frequently
abused or neglected them, until their suffering
cries came up before the Eternal Ones, and Hea-
ven forbade any man among them from taking
more than one wife, but adding this proviso, "For
if I will, saith the Lord of Hosts, raise up seed
unto me, I will command my people; otherwise
they shall hearken to these things." This in-
junction, we are of the opinion, was afterwards
removed, and the foreshadowed command given,
as it is evident from the later history of the Ne-
phites, that in a better era of their national life,
polygamy was sanctioned by the law and prac-
ticed amongst them, and that, indeed, by the
men most favored of God. As an example, we
will cite the Prophet Amulek, the devoted


friend and zealous fellow laborer of the younger
Alma; the only man in all the vast city of Am-
monihah, to whom an angel was sent, and in
whose behalf mighty miracles were wrought.
He expressly mentions his women, and as he
places them next to himself and before his chil-
dren, his father and all his other kinsfolks and
kindred, and nowhere uses the word wife or
wives, it is evident that his wives were meant
and not serving women. No one, surely, would
argue that he would give such the place of
honor in his address to his fellow citizens, before
his parents and his children. As another in-
stance, the great number of Chief Judge Pa-
horan's sons is incidentally mentioned.
	It was during the brighter days of the rule
of the Judges, that woman of any time before
the appearance of the Messiah on this continent
seems to have been most highly regarded and
esteemed. The Nephites were then living un-
der that excellent code of laws drawn up by the
inspired King Mosiah, which bear evidence of
having been most admirably adapted to a peo-
ple worthy of a large amount of liberty. This
age was adorned with the presence of such
men as Alma, Moroni (the Prophet-General of
the Nephite armies), Ammon and the other
sons of King Mosiah, Heleman, Amulek and
others conspicuous for their devotion to the
laws of God and the rights and liberties of the
people. General Moroni, than whom a more
devoted man to the cause of truth and human-
ity never lived, is especially conspicuous in his
untiring efforts for the safety and happiness of
the wives and little ones of his people. On the
standard to which he rallied the patriot warriors
of the Republic, which he named "The Title of
Liberty," he inscribed, "In memory of our God,our
religion and freedom, and our peace, our wives
and our children." This seems to have been
his watchword throughout the long and san-
guinary succeeding campaigns, in which he de-
fended the Nephites from the savage onslaughts
of their Lamanitish foes. Again and again we
find him rallying the hosts of Nephi with this
soul stirring cry, and under the ardor it wrought
in their hearts, carrying triumph to their ban-
ners and freedom to their land. One series of
events that occurred during this long war
which sheds a most pleasing light upon the
inner life of the faithful among the Nephites is
found in the story of Heleman and his two
thousand striplings, who though very young,
were so full of the spirit of faith implanted in
their hearts by the wise counsels of their loving
and God-fearing mothers, that in the might of
Jehovah they went forth against the enemies of
their adopted country (for they were Lamanites
by birth) and no power could withstand them.
Their mother's teachings and their mothers'
proyers were weapons of destruction to
their foes and shields of defence to
themselves. They went forth conquering and
to conquer, and the All-seeing One only knows
how much the teachings of those saintly women
effected towards the preservation of the Nephite
commonwealth from imminent destruction.
	And what shall we say of the condition of wo-
man in that blessed Sabbatic era succeeding the
glorious appearing of the Redeemer on this
western land, when for two hundred years
this continent enjoyed undisturbed and
heavenly peace; when all men devoutly wor-
shipped the Lord and dealt justly with their
fellow's—man or woman. It was an age in
which no woman was wronged, no deserted
children pined in the streets, no abused wives
mourned in secret, or lifted their sorrowing
hearts in anguish to the Great Father of man-
kind; no brazen courtesans flaunted on the broad
highways, or ruined maidens hid their sorrow
and shame wherever seclusion was the most
profound. The inspired historian tells us that if
ever there were a happy people on this earth,
here they were found, and most happy must
have been the gentler ones, who bear in the
stubborn battle of life so large a share of its sor-
rows-and misfortunes.
	But this golden age was soon followed by its
opposite, when every virtue seems to have been
supplanted by a vice, and all good was turned
to evil. At almost lightning speed, the people
having once taken the downward track, the
nation rushed to ruin, until this continent
beftame one vast field of carnage, rapine, and
misery over which devils gloated and hell
enlarged herself. Indeed, the whole land
seemed peopled with a race of demons who
perpetrated cruelties that could alone be con-
ceived in the hearts of the damned. During
these lengthened years of untold horror the fair
daughters of the land suffered unspeakable bar-
barities. Life, virtue, everything was the play-
thing of the victor, be he Nephite or Lamanite,
until in the hate of revenge and the fury of de-
spair they joined their national leaders on the bat-
tle field,and with their husband, sons and broth-
ers, dyed their hands red in the blood of the foe.
Nor did they arm themselves alone, but with
feelings turned to those of monsters, they put
weapons into the hands of their children and in-
flamed their young minds with the savage love
of slaughter. The war was not one for suprema-
cy alone; it was for national and individual ex-
istence, and midst a sea of carnage,unparalleled
on any land save ours, the Nephite nation was
swept out of existence, leaving scarce a trace be-
hind, a most terrible instance of divine mercy
scorned and divine laws abused. 			G.


8		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.

	Died at her residence in Oxford, Idaho, March
19th, 1880, Mary Hunt, wife of Samuel Hunt.
Born December 23d, 1835, at Corton, Norfolk,
England. Baptized 1853; Emigrated to Utah in
1868. Sister Hunt was a faithful Latter-day
Saint and an active member and teacher in the
Relief Society, and filled her position with
promptness and dignity, and was highly respec-
ted by all who knew her. The sisters of the Re-
lief Society deeply mourn her loss. Her testi-
mony was to the last mingled with faith and
hope of a glorious resurrection. Then we hope to
meet our beloved sister again and enjoy her so-
ciety.
						LOUSIA CROSHAW.
	P. S. According to her request, her remains
were taken to Salt Lake for interment.


[Column 1]
WARNER'S
[image] SAFE BITTERS
	It is the best Blood Purifier, and stimulates
every function to more healthful action, and is
thus a benefit in all diseases.
	In eliminating the impurities of the blood, the
natural and necessary result is the cure of Scrof-
uious and other Skin Eruptions and Diseases,
including Cancers, Ulcers and other Sores.
	Dyspepsia, Weakness of the Stomach, Consti-
pation, Dizziness, General Debility, etc., are
cured by the Safe Bitters. It is unequaled
as an appetizer and regular tonic.
	It is a medicine which should be in every fam-
ily, and which, wherever used, will save the
payment of many doctors' bills.
	Bottles of two sizes; prices, 50 cents and $1.00.
SAFE
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE
SAFE
DIABETES CURE
SAFE TONIC NERVINE PILLS
READ Save Thyself
☞ Warner's
Safe Reme-
dies are sold
by Druggists
and Dealers
in Medicine
everywhere.
H. H. WARNER & CO.,
Proprietors,
Rochester, N. Y.
☞ Send for Pamphlet
and Testimonials.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the 
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST., OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P.O. BOX' 541.

NEW SPRING STOCK.
F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions
boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
goods. Etc., Etc.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responped to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR

A LARGE STOCK
OF HOME MADF TRUNKS for sale by JOHN C. CUT-
LER. Agent of the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building, also Home-Made
Blankets,	Brown Yarn,		Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimeres,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, &c.

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes. Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes Country dealers,
please call. Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z.C.M.I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special department for Gent's Clothing
and Carpets, Ladies and Children's Shoes,
Dry Goods, Shawls and Domestics,
Groceries, Hardware and Stoves.

DRIED FRUITS of all CLASES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.			97 Kimball Block.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.

IF not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and without any noise and confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high. Its self-
setting and self-threading [-]huttle, and absence of springs
and cogs renders it both simple and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, Ill.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY.
Wholesale and Retail Dealer in
FURNITURE
Spring Beds, Wire Mattresses,
Feathers Wall Paper
and
Baby Carriages.
75, 77 & 79, First South St. S. L. C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

