VOL. 9.                   SALT  LAKE CITY,  UTAH,  DECEMBER  1, 1880.          NO. 13.


TO THE SPIRIT OF POESY.
Say, where hast thou wandered, sweet spirit?
	I've missed thee for ever so long;
Thine absence and frown did I merit
	That I've waited in vain for they song?
Did I wrong thee when, leaning beside me,
	I slighted thy voice in mine ear?
Did I grieve thee in that I denied thee
	My homage when last thou wert near!

Nay! take it not so, for thou knowest
	In my heart there is none like to thee,
That I'm doubly alone when thou goest,
	Withdrawing they pleasure from me.
Tis pity enough to be weary
	With duties that crowed the day;
Think how lonely the evening, and dreary,
	When I find thou hast flitted away!

Through each homely and  practical duty
	Thou knowest  impatient I haste,
To spend in the spell of they beauty
	The moments too precious to waste.
Ah, surely thou wilt not forsake me!
	Mine eyelids are weary for sleep;
If I rest me awhile wilt thou wake me,
	Thy visit and promise to keep?

Forget not how happy we've wandered
	Through scenes still to memory dear;
How thy whispers  of  hope  have I pondered,
	'Till their soothing has banished the tear.
And how shall I go on without thee?
	No scene, be it ever so rare,
But I'd miss thy sweet presence about me,
	Thy rapture and praises to share.

Nay, thou hast not  gone altogether-
	For hast thou not vowed, dearest friend,
Whatever the way or the weather,
	To keep by my side to the end?
I can but believe thou art near me,
	My trial to witness and test;
I entreat thee, again let me hear thee,
	I'll honor they slightest request.

Still silent?  I know now thou'rt hiding;
	'Twas thy presence I felt I am  sure.
Ah,  well;  if I merit thy chiding,
	Thy sternest I'll patient endure.
No answer?  Perhaps  'tis to tease me;
	'Twould relieve thee to chide me, if vexed;
I'd rather do penance, if it please thee,
	Than linger so sorely perplexed.
Let me sing!  perhaps music may move thee
	Of thy humor capricious to tire;
Thy favorite song soon shalt prove thee-
	Ah! where hast  thou  hidden my lyre?
No hand but thine own can have taken
	The harp that thou  gavest to me:
No other its music can waken,
	Unless they have helper in thee.

Return me thy gift, gentle spirit,
	No longer in  silence to bear,
But to use, and that they who shall hear it,
	Its heavenly worth may declare.
And leave me no more, I implore thee;
	Sing with me and teach me to sing,
Till the hearts  of the hearers before thee
	Their tributes  of homage shall bring.
			Augusta Joyce Crocheron
November 4, 1880.


COMMENDATION VERSUS CRITICISM.
			------------
	     BY HANNAH T. KING.
			----------
	Some persons object to  commendation, even
the briefest;  this must arise  not sufficiently
studying  the  human  character.  That  which
might be hurtful to  one person, is highly bene-
ficial and  encouraging to another;  some young
people make no progress  unless encouraged  by
judicious praise;  they are naturally so diffident
and  unaware  of  their  own worth and ability,
that they have  to  be  assured and  commended
into  attempting  anything above  mediocre;  all
judicious  praise  is  necessary to such  diseased
modesty, and will never injure, but inspire con-
fidence in themselves--without which  no  per-
son  can ever  shine  in  any department.  Self-
esteem  and  self-appreciation  every  one  ought
to understand and possess;  and  such  are  found
in  all  great  characters;  they  simply "know
themselves"--they have honestly read, weighed
and  measured  themselves,  and  their  past  at-
tainment is  a  guarantee of their future.  Cir-
cumstances,  of  course,  bring  out  different
phases  of  character,  but  every  individuality
has its  own bias, its  propelling power, its "bal-
ance wheel," that act as  a  lever to  accomplish
its wishes and designs, and  by long exercise at
last forms the mighty mind, the strong charac-
ter, the  indomitable will, the wonderful endur-
ance--in short, men and women in all the per-
fection that is  allowed  to  a  probation. Yes,
let us give the commendation that is due, let us
encourage each other, not  chill, and sneer, and
depress, till  all  energy and  ambition is wrung
out of a character, until every faculty becomes
neutral, and the original strength  and  beauty
is  marred,  or  perhaps destroyed.
	There are  characters who will  work  them-
selves  out  of  all  this  wonted  depression, but
they are the exception, the Titans of humanity.
The masse succumb and become warped by the 
cold and  injudicious  treatment they receive in
their youthful training.  Teachers need  teach-
ing very often;  for indeed, teaching  the young
mind  is  a  mighty science, and  very  few  are
equal to  the task.  Hence, we  often  see  self-
educated  men  and women  the peeres of  those
who have  spent their youth  in  seminaries  and
colleges.  Their  learning  is  all  derived from
books, whereas the other  is aquired by actual
experience, and such knowledge is power.
	Now, a  few  words  on  criticism.  If  it  re-
quires  a  delicate  tact  to  praise  well  at  the
proper  time  and  season, it most  assuredly re-
quires  a  Johnsonian  understanding,  discrimi-
nation  and  comprehension  to  criticise  justly.
The  critics  of  the  day  are, in  general, a con-
temptible genus;  they pander to  a  clique  that
pays  well--probably  have  no  other ability.
An honest  author  has  little  mercy  at their
hands, or a chance of being justly weighed and
measured;  they  ignore  truth, and  exalt  and
eulogize twaddle.  Just  censure  and  criticism
are  needed  by  all writers, and when bestowed
by a wise and  judicious censor  and  mentor, is
purifying  and  exalting;  and,  thank  Heaven!
there are such upon the earth at all times; but
they are  the  exceptions.  A  critic  should be,
first, a scholar of large heart and broad brain--
nothing narrow, or cynical;  well read;  not sec-
tarian, but  entirely cosmopolitan;  with  a clear
judgment  of  what is correct, and  what  is not,
never looking  through  green  or  blue  specta-
cles;  no  prejudice  must  exist--justice  must
hold her balance even in the counsel of which
she  should  always be  one;  he  should  have a
keen insight  into  character and all its indica-
tions;  never  judge all  by one  common  stand-
ard, certainly  not!  but  comprehend  "the  very
age  and body of the  times, its  form and pres-
sure," and its bearings, upon character, etc., etc.;
especially the etceteras!
	In every-day  associations we  hear ourselves
criticised;  the  very  praise  of  some  people is
annoying, and their  censure amounts  to a bur-
lesque!  Whether from  spleen  or  ignorance  is
not quite visible, but they will  name  some  in-
ferior  thing  that  your  pen dashed off without
scarcely the knowledge of your brain, exclaim-
ing decidedly, and  with a sinister  look  of the
eye:  "The best thing you ever wrote!"  All, or
nearly all, sweeping assertions are false;  and a
person who looks  at  their  words  before  they
speak never make them.  A real  lady or  gen-
tlemen  never  make  such  assertions,  for  in
mixed companies they are  sometimes  very of-
fensive, and show great want  of tact, to speak
in  the  mildest  form.  Those who  do  it in ig-
norance, or  merely as an  echo, must  be  par-
doned,  as  we  pardon  unthinking  children
whose  language  is  that  of  the  parrot. But
men and women  of  heart, and  brain, and ex-
perience, that by such have built  up a character,
should  not  talk  nonsense  on  matters  where
good  sense, judicious  praise,  or  kind and wise
censured only should be exercised.
	Let us  all go  into  school for  a  short time,
and there learn lessons that will improve us in
many ways.  Let  us  there  learn  the  art of
praising judiciously, and  censuring  wisely and
justly, that our criticisms may carry with them
a healing balm, that, if true, may do us good,
and, if unjust, will even then be received with
equanimity.


LETTER TO  AUNT  EM.

DEAR  EDITOR EXPONENT:  I wish  to  express
to you the pleasure I have  enjoyed in  reading
the "Pen sketch  of an Illustrious Woman," in
your paper and I believe it has been shared by
nearly  all your readers.  Even those not of our
faith, must feel  admiration  and  reverence  for
the  lofty  character  of  one  whom  they  have
known little of, save as the "Mormon poetess."
	Among our own people Sister Eliza is looked
up to  with  reverence and  love  second  to  no
other  women.  Hundreds  have  perhaps  met
her but once. in her sacred  office among wom-
en;  but have parted from her  presence with a
feeling that can never be erased  while memory
lasts.  It has  been  known in a  general  way,
that "Sister Eliza,"  endured an  experience in
the most trying  period  of  our  people's history;
but how  few  knew  her intimately; and  how
could others venture to intrude upon the sacred
privacy  of her past;  and  by these, will be par-
ticularly appreciated the sketch giving so many
incidents that reveal the gentle patience, heroic
fortitude, and  devotional nature  of one  called
to so exalted a  position.  I  have  taught  my
children  that  even  the  glory  and  power  of
Queen  Victoria's  Empire, is  but  dim  beside
that belonging to our 'elect lady;' that she as a
Latter-day Saint, stands higher  in the estima-
tion of our Father;  that  her  crown  and  glory
will be imperishable, and for eternity.  I often
look upon  her and try to imagine how she will
look with that immortal crown, how great then
will be her power.  This pen  sketch has drawn
her nearer to us;  we  feel that she  can  realize
all phases of our trials, comprehend all  condi-
tions of our lives, all our efforts;  and I for one,
thank the writer of the 'Pen sketch of an Illus-
trious Woman.'
AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Nov. 20, 1880


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LIFE.INCIDENTS.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
	I remember  the  circumstance  which my
father refers to, of my disobedience, or careless-
ness, and my deep repentance.  I was then but
a little child, and  this was almost the first sad
lesson  which  I  remember  of  learning  by  ex-
perience.  I was playing  under  the table, and
hardly  realized what  I  was  doing  until  the
leaf fell  with  the  dishes, when  I  was  horror-
stricken.  My  brother,  who  was  older  than
myself, solemnly, though  needlessly,  reminded
me  of  what  I  might  expect.    I had  been
taught  that  there  was  a higher  power, and I
went  and  cried  to  God  to  forgive me and to
soften my mother’s heart, that she  might  not
punish me; and that simple  prayer was heard
and  answered,  which  greatly  increased  my
faith in Him.
	I often think, could we  always be obedient,
or even willing to repent and humble ourselves
like  a  little  child, how much less  sorrow and
suffering. we would  have  in  this  life;  but how
prone we  are  to wander from  the  path which
is marked  out by a kind and  merciful Father.
“Experience is a hard, but a profitable school-
master.”
	I am often  reminded of some of my father’s
sayings and  comparisons which, he was  accus-
tomed to use  when preaching on  the  stand, or
in the  chimney corner to  his family or friends
who  might happen  to  be visiting  them.  The
following will no doubt sound familiar to many
more  beside  myself: “We are  all  sons  and
daughters  of God, and  He desires to save and
exalt us;  but He  has  a  rod prepared  for  the
disobedient and rebellious, and the farther we
go from  him  the more keenly we will feel the
lash, and  the  end  of it  will  cut  the  deepest;
but  the  nearer we are to Him, the less it will
hurt us.  And  for  this  reason I want to keep
up  as  near  to  Him  as possible.” Often  he
would turn to me with  a  sly twinkle and say.
“Here’s Helen, she had to  be  whipt into obe-
dience;” and  I  always  admitted  it, saying:
“Yes; whom  He loveth He chasteneth;” when
he would  burst  out  into  one  of  his peculiar
laughs.
	According to  my father’s record, the  14th
day of  February, 1835, was the day appointed
for  choosing  the Twelve  Apostles;  it  was  far
from his expectation  that he would  be  one of
the number.  He says:
	“Sunday morning,  April  5.  The  Twelve
had  not  all  as  yet  been  together, and  as the
time  drew near  that  we  should  travel  to the
East, we appointed this day to  bear  our  testi-
mony  unto  our  brethren  and  friends.  We
were all assembled together, with the exception
of Brother  Orson Pratt. who had not yet been
with  us.  At  the  time  we  were  praying and
wishing  for  his  arrival,  while  opening  the
meeting, he  entered the house, and we rejoiced
at  his  presence, and  thanked  the  Lord for it.
He  was  then  ordained, and  we  proceeded  to
speak  according to our ages.  This day  Broth-
ers Thomas B. Marsh, David W. Patten, Brig-
ham  Young  and  Heber  C.  Kimball  spoke.
Sunday,  12th, Brothers  Orson  Hyde, William
E.  McLellen,  Luke  Johnson  and  Parley  P.
Pratt spoke.	Sunday, 19th, Brothers William
Smith,  Orson  Pratt,  John  F.  Boynton  and
Lyman E. Johnson spoke, closing the testimony
of the Twelve  Apostles to the people in Kirt-
land at that time.  Sunday, 26th, we  received
our charge from Joseph Smith the Prophet.”
	The following is a sketch  of the first mission-
taken by  the  Twelve  Apostles.  My  father
says: “May 3d  we bade our brethren farewell,
and on the  morning of the 4th we started and
proceeded to  Fairport, where we  arrived pre-
cisely  at  six o’clock. A  boat  was  there, as
Brother  Joseph  had  predicted,  on  which  we
embarked for Dunkirk, where we arrived the
[second column]
same day,  at  four o’clock in  the  afternoon.
The next morning we got together and divided
off  two  by two.  Brother William  Smith  and
myself  went  to Casadagua, about twelve miles
from  Fredonia,  and  put  up  at  Harry More-
house’s. Held  two  meetings,  giving  them a
fair proclamation  of the Gospel and  the Book
of  Mormon,  and  there  was  no  opposition.
From thence  we went  to  Westfield, where we
met the remainder of our quorum, and on Sat-
urday, the 9th, we  met in Conference with the
Elders of this branch  of the Church, and also
those at the little branch at Savonia, who were
called upon by Thomas B. Marsh, our  presid-
ing  Elder, to  represent  to  us  the standing of
the brethren.  We  had  public  preaching  on
Sunday, and  continued  our  council  on  Mon-
day;  we  had  a  good  time, and thirteen were
baptized.  I  started  from  Westfield  on  Tues-
day, the 12th, in company with Elder John F.
Boynton, to  preach  our  way through  to  the
Freedan Conference.  We passed through Lodi
and  put  up  at  Brother Murdock’s; my  feet
were so  blistered  I  could  not wear my boots,
nor proceed without.
	“We arrived at Freedan,Cataraugus County,
and assembled on  the  22d  of  May in  Confer-
ence.  From hence I traveled in company with
Elder O. Hyde to  Pike Hollow, where resided
many  of  my wife’s relatives, appointed a meet-
ing  and  preached  twice,  baptized  three; and
the Lord was with us.  We then proceeded to
the town  of Mendon, the  place  of  my  former
residence; we  preached  twice, many  came  out
to hear.  On Monday we went  to Squire Rog-
ers’, where Elder Fulton, a Baptist priest, came
to  see  us, who treated  us very abruptly, deny-
ing the spirit  of  prophecy and the gifts  of the
Gospel; he  called  us  false  prophets,  and  re-
jecting  our  testimony  he  advised  us  to go
home.
	“We declared unto  him that  we should not
go  home,  but  should  go  forth  preaching the
Gospel, and  no  power should  stay us;  for the
Lord  had  committed  unto  us  a  dispensation,
and wo unto us  if  we preached not the Gospel
of Christ.  I told  him  if  he  did  not repent of
his sins, and be  baptized  for  the  remission of
them, he would  be  damned;  which  made him
mad.
	“We then passed on until we came to a pure
stream  of  water, and  there  cleansed  our  feet
bearing  testimony  against  him,  as  the Lord
commanded.
	June 6th  met  our  brethren,  the  Twelve
Apostles, in  Conference at Lyonstown, Wayne
County. It was my turn to preside, as we had
been  appointed  to  preside  according  to  our
ages, by the Prophet, and  the Lord blessed us.
	“June 8th I  started  with  Bro. Luke  John-
son  for  Pillow  Point, preaching  on  the  way.
In  the  town  of  Rose  we  were  cordially  re-
ceived, and bore  our  testimony to  the  people.
May the Lord  bless them!	In Hewton, about
twelve miles west  of  Oswego,  we  could find no
entertainment, but  were  rejected  from  twelve
houses;  the inmates were all Methodists.  May
the Lord reward them according to their works.
About twelve o’clock at night we put up at an
Inn, and retired  without any supper, as we had
only  one  shilling, just enough to pay our lodg-
ing.  The next morning we arose and traveled
six  miles  before  we  could  get  any  breakfast,
and  came to a magistrate by the name  of Els-
worth,  who  gave  out  an  appointment  for  a
meeting on Wednesday, at 6 p m.;  We had a
house  full.  Next  day  they  wanted  another
meeting, and we  preached again, and some be-
lieved.  When we left there  our host and  his
family bade us God speed, and gave us money;
and David Elsworth’s wife washed and mended
our clothes.	We could not have been treated
with  more kindness in  our father’s house;  we
blessed  them  in  the  name  of the  Lord,  and
went on  our way  rejoicing, whiie they wept at
[third column]
our departure.  About one year after this  the
whole family embraced the Gospel.
	"While at Sackett’s Harbor, I  received a
letter  from my wife informing me of  the birth
of  my  son  Heber  Parley,  on  the  occasion  of
which Brother P. P. Pratt composed a poem.
		To be Continued.


A SURPRISE PARTY.

	On Tuesday morning, October 26, about sev-
enty persons assembled at the residence of Sis-
ter Phebe Brown Fife, in recognition of their
affection and respect for her. The company
consisted of the Relief Society of the Third
Ward, Ogden City, and a few of her particular
friends,brethren and sisters. After congratula-
tions,and a hearty welcome expressed by our re-
spected sister, the guests sat down to a bounti-
ful repast; after which songs were sung, an ad-
dress was read by its author, and remarks
were then made by the brethren and a few
sisters, treating on the many good qualities of
our sister, asking God to keep her in his care.
We then adjourned, feeling a few hours were
pleasantly and profitably spent.

THE ADDRESS.

	An address to Sister Phobe Brown Fife,
written by Sister Lucretia B. Farr in behalf
of the Relief Society of the Third Ward, pre-
vious to her departure to the Southern country.
Dear Sister—We, as a Relief Society, in a
weak way, wish to show our appreciation of
your great goodness as a member of our so-
ciety, as well as all other good qualities that
we realize you are endowed with. Words fail
to express the deep regret we feel in parting
with you; we would it were otherwise, but as
duty calls we must subscribe, trusting all
things are for good. We shall miss you in our
clrcle, for we know you have been an active
worker with us, never shrinking from any
duty called on to perform, kind to the poor,
ever ready to relieve the distressed, in sickness
and death none could excel. And as we now
realize that we must separate, we all, with one
accord, say, may God bless you, may peace be
with you, may his spirit ever be around you to
comfort you; if dark clouds surround you,
may He ever be with you to assist you, and
may poverty and want never stare you in the
face, but on the contrary, may plenty crown
your labors, and eventually may this sacrifice
prove a blessing to yourself, your companion,
your children, and all who are intimately con-
nected with you, and may we be consoled by
this one thought, that our loss may prove your
great gain; and although separated so many
miles away, may we not forget each other, our
our religion nor our God; and if we never
meet again on earth, may we so live that we
may meet in heaven, where parting is never
known, is the sincere wish of your sisters.

We meet in this lone vale of tears,
	But only meet to part;
Then why should friendship's sacred cord
	Entwine around the heart?

Say why should kindred souls ere meet,
	And not together dwell?
Why cast we but a transient gaze
	On those we love so well?

But yet we say, forget us not,
	Though here no longer seen;
Though forest tall, and prairies wide,
	And waters roll between.

Though few and fleeting are the hours
	Together we have known,
Yet still we say, remember us
	Before our Father's throne.

				DINAH M. WHITE, Pres't.
				LUCRETIA B. FARR, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 99


THE SILVER WEDDING.

Twenty-five years, you say, since the wedding,
When you launched forth your bark on life's stream,
With hearts filled with love, hope and union—
Oh! the time it has passed like a dream.

The sweet and the bitter you've tasted,
Over roses and thorns you have trod;
But each thorn is a star in the crown you will wear
When you reach the celestial abode.

Some barter for gold and for silver
Their wisdom, their honor, their truth;
But you have been true to that promise
You made in your earlier youth.

Spring has passed, and the summer is ended,
And the autumn is hovering nigh:
Oh! gather the golden sheaves of love,
Garner safe for the winter's supply.

In gold, silver, rubies and diamonds
You may glitter from youth to old age;
But in sparkling treasures of wisdom
You will make far the brightest page.

Friends meet and extend kindly greetings—
May the pure bonds of friendship never
Be forgotten on earth; and in heaven
May we clasp hands and live on forever.

								LUCY A. CLARK.

	These lines were written on the Twenty-fifth
Anniversary of the wedding of Bro. Edward
and Sister Elizabeth Stevenson, Oct. 28, 1880.
A silver wedding reception was given at their
residence in the 14th Ward; a large number
of guests assembled, congratulations were of-
fered and a sumptuous repast partaken of.
Afterwards remarks were made, suitable to the
occasion by Elder Stevenson, followed by
Apostle W. Woodruff, Coun. D. H. Wells,
Elder J. Horne and other brethren. A de-
licious wedding cake and other refreshments
were served; there were songs and music, and
the party enjoyed themselves heartily. Many
choice and elegant silver presents were made
to the worthy couple, and all went "merry as a
marriage bell."


DARE TO DO RIGHT.
			   -----------
	To the inhabitants  of  America,  who  enjoy
the blessed right of doing as they please,so long
as  they  do  not  infringe upon another  man's 
rights, it may be hard to  believe, at first, that
the Catholic Priests hold such  power  over the
people anywhere else.  One  of  the many  rea-
sons for this  the Catholics firm belief that his
sins will not be remitted in heaven, unless they
are remitted by the Priest, on earth;  and  that
nothing but blind obedience  to the priestcraft,
will secure his salvation.  Add to that spiritual
sway, the fact that the Priest can (in proportion
to his degree)  hold  out to the people honors and
lucrative  position on one hand, and destitution
or even  death  on  the  other;  and  you  will  only
need  to  read-the  lives  of the  Popes  and their
Cardinals to draw a true estimate of the bond-
age  of  the  Italian  people  for  centuries.  A
people once so  proud and fair!
	Thirty-six years ago, it was a common thing to
hear of Jewish and Protestant  children being
abducted in broad  daylight, to be thrown into
Monasteries,  and  there  incarcerated  for  life.
The perpetraters of these cruelties would obtain
the absolution of their sins for saving a heretic's
soul. Were there none courageous and united
enough to rebel?  Yes  in many  instances, but
they were unsuccessful.
	The inhabitants of the  valleys  of  the Alps,
known as the  Waldenses, are  the  descendants
of  a  faction, who  having  dissented  from the
Roman Church, were persecuted, and driven to
the Alps;  in to the crags  and caves  of which
mountains they were  pursued, hemmed in  and
tortured most barbarously.  Those who succeeded
to escape, fled through the pass of St. Bernard,
into  France, and  there  remained  until  death
removed their pursuers.
	Returning to Italy, they settled in the valleys
which had been drenched  with their ancestors'
blood;  and their children to-day, can recite the
story of  their  persecutions,  as  well  as their
catechism.
	The Province  embracing  those  Valleys, is
the  province  of  Pinerolo.  Their  principal
towns are:  Pinerolo,  Luzerna,  Torre, San Se-
condo, San Giovanni besides many small  settle-
ments on bleak and almost barren heights.  The
climate in most of those towns is much  like the
climate of  Utah;  differing  according  to their
proximity to the  highest  mountains.  In  most
places, they raise maize, rye, potatoes,  waln uts
chesnuts and grapes,  on slopes facing the South.
In business transactions, places  of worship and
schools the  French  language  is  spoken and
taught; but privately they speak a dialect called
Patois (Patwah,)  a mixture  of  French and 
Piedmontese.
	The Waldenses are hardy  industrious  and
frugal, but in some localities somewhat degener-
ated in stature and intelligence.
	After the  battle  of  Waterloo, in which
Colonel C.  Beckwith  lost a  limb, and  almost
his life;  the gentleman as soon as convalescent,
determined to  travel  in  France,  Switzerland
and Italy; he  visited  the Waldenses  and be-
coming interested in them, settled among them,
and spent his fortune  in  building schools and
churches in their midst.  Mr.  Beckwith also
aided many efficient scholars  of  both sexes, in
obtaining seats in Colleges  and Universities of
Switzerland and  Prussia.  Up  to  1847,  the
Waldenses or indeed any other so called  here-
tic, could  not  own houses or lands, in their  own 
names, (except in their own province)  nor
could their dead be burried only  by  the road
side.  Their young men were drafted  to serve
in the army but not to be promoted;  nor could
they enjoy  any  civil  rights  any more  than a
felon. 
	Words fail to portray the joy and enthusiasm
that filled every bosom (excpeting the  priest-
craft)  in  the kingdom of Piedmont, when  Vic-
tor Emmanuel granted his  people a  Constitu-
tional government, liberty of press  and liberty
of worship, emancipating  the Jews  and  Wal-
denses and granted to all the same rights.
	A whole week was  spent in national festivit-
ies, especially  in  the  Capital  where  the  long
despised Valdese was  sought  and feasted;  and
the shouts  of  Viva  il Re  and Viva  I  Valdesi
echod  through  the streets  and  halls  from
morn  till  night.  Every  year on the  17th of
February the Anniversary  of  the  Emancipa-
tion, these festivities are repeated with as much
enthusiasm  as  the  Americans  celebrate  the
Fourth  of July.  Long  processions  of the Un-
ion  of  all  trades  headed by  the  National
Guards  and  two  immense  chariots, one con-
taining a life size Statue representing the God-
dess  of Liberty,  the  other  a  printing press,
make their way through  the  principal  streets
and squares and up to the Royal  Palace where
their demonstrations of love  and gratitude  for
the King, would  be deafening.
	Victor Emmanuel was not satisfied with free-
ing his people in Piedmont, Savoy and Sardinia;
but later on succeeded in freeing the Lombardies
the Roman  Empire or  States and the  Sicilies
from the Austrian and Papal Yoke.
	Few Kings have accomplished as much  good
in a reign  of about 30 years (more or less;) and
although he had his  faults,  which  were  always
magnified by bigoted and narrow minded men,
I trust that his name in the Eternal Records, is
on the list of the  truly  great ones, who in this
life have dared to do right.
						E.C.F.
	Morgan Nov. 21.


A NORTH Adams inventor has devised a plan
for lighting Hoosac Tunnel by electricity.


CORRESPONDENCE.

		ST. GEORGE NOV. 10, 1880.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Dear Sister: Before leaving St. George I
thought I would drop a line to inform you of
my probable return home after an absence of
two months. I expect to start for Milford to-
day I have had the satisfaction of working in
the Temple for several days in behalf of our
dead, and have had a delightful visit and time
of refreshing with my dear sister, relatives and
friends of this much talked of City.
	Yesterday was the anniversary of the birth-
day of Pres't. Erastus Snow and we were the
participants of a most agreeable and interest-
ing party on the occasion, at his residence,
where his wives and sons and daughters had
prepared a sumptuous entertainment, inviting
a number of friends including Pres't. Angus
M. Cannon and company, who are on a visit to
this place, also Mrs. Tate from Toole, probably
in all, family and guests, numbering eighty
persons.
	The evening was spent in pleasing converse
and reunion of old associations, together with
vocal and instrumental music rendered by
members of his interesting family.
	I should not omit to mention the perform-
ance of a Juvenile brass band outside which,
considering their extreme youth, was very
good and promises, by perseverance to become
proficient.
	When the guests were about to take their de-
parture Pres't. Snow closed with a heart-felt
prayer. With best wishes for your continued
prosperity. As ever,
				Yours truly,
						M. A. P. HYDE.


THE VENERABLE LUCRETIA MOGT.

	This estimable and lovely woman departed
this life November 11,in the city of Philadelphia,
Pa. Her maiden name was Lucretia Coffin and
she was born in Nantucket on the 3d, of Janu-
ary 1793: She was a member of the society of
Friends, and a firm advocate of their peace
principles; she was a strong abolitionist, work-
ing actively and earnestly for the emancipation
of the colored race. She married James Mott
in Philidelphia in 1811. It is stated that in
her twenty-sixth year she began to preach.
The care of a family for a few years hindered
her from active work in other directions but
subsequently she traveled through seveaal
states preaching against the crime of slavery
and the duty of abstaining from the proceeds
of slave labors.
	She was delegate to the world's Anti Slavery
Convention held in London in 1840, but the
right of a woman to a seat as a delegate was
denied and she was excluded from taking part
in the assembly, but was received with courtesy
and great kindness. Mrs. M. was one of the
leading spirits at the famous Seneca Falls
Woman's Rights Convention in 1848 and has
labored faithfully for woman suffrage ever
since. From persons intimately acquainted
with this excellent lady we have heard much
of her nobility of character, her sweet and an-
gelic spirit, her charming and attractive man-
ner, her eloquent and pleading voice and her
persuasive language. She passed away peace-
fully and has gone to her rest; but her name
will be held in honorable remembrance, for
good works are an imperishable inheritance.
								E. B. W.


MISS ANNA  DICKINSON, has  read  her  new
play, "Aurelian,"  before  a  Philadelphia audi-
ence, and the  Press, of that  city, said  she had
"a  most cordial  reception,  and the closest at-
tention, broken  only by  applause,  was given
to her play."--W. J.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
___________________________________________
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
--------------------------------------
	EMMELINE B. WELLS. 		Editor
--------------------------------------------------------------
	Published semi-monthly,  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah
Terms:  One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00  Ten  copies  for  the  price  of  nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square,  ten  lines  of  nonparell  space, one
time, $2.50; per  month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers. 
	Exponent Office,  Lower  West  Room of  the  Council
House,  South  Temple  Street.  Business  hours  from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					Salt Lake City, Utah. 
---------------------------------------------------------------------
SALT LAKE  CITY, DECEMBER 1, 1880.


UTAH  AND  HER  DELEGATE TO CON-
			GRESS.
			----------
	Hon. George Q. Cannon left this city Tuesday
morning, Nov. 30,  for  Washington, D.C., that
he might arrive in the Capital and be present at
the opening  of  the  session  of  Congress, which
event will transpire Monday, Dec. 6.  President
Cannon  has been duly elected, and  is  undoubt-
edly the choice  of  the people, for  delegate from
Utah, and  really represents the true  interests of 
all  citizens  of  this  Territory.  Women as well
as men  have  had a voice  in  his  election, not-
withstanding  the  efforts  made to hinder them,
and have cast their votes for him.  Bro. Cannon
is well  acquainted with the needs of the  people
who reside here, and has  ever  acted  honorably
and wisely  in behalf  of  each  and  all, that  they
might enjoy and exercise the privileges to which
loyal  citizens are entitlted. The  spirit and feel-
ing of  the outside party who have come and set-
tled in  Utah,  and  their  manner  towards the
"Mormon" people is such  that those who would
maintain their rights and privileges are legitimate
proprietors of the country they have  sought out
and  made  desirable,  are  compelled to  act upon
the defensive, which  is  always  disagreeable to
those who are lovers of peace and good order.
	Many threats  have  been  made  in  regard to
the future action of the government with respect
to Utah  and  the "Mormon" people, but judging
from  the wonderful mainfestations of the power
of God  in  the  past,  in  the  protection  of  his
Saints, we  can  but  feel  hopeful  for the future.
Whatever dark  clouds  seem  now impending,
will be  scattered and blown away, and a bright
and  smiling  sky will  illuminate  the  transient
cloudiness  of  the  atmosphere,  and  all  will  be
well; Utah will  become a flourishing  and pros-
perous Territory,  and  the  eyes  of  the  great
American  nation will  look  with  astonishment
upon  the  wonderful  success  that  is  but  just
dawning behind the dusky horizon.  The Saints
have  nothing  to  fear, for  all  things will work
together for their good.  Like Daniel the prophet,
their trust is in God and none  else.  Men  may
revile  and  persecute, and women too, but  they
cannot  stay  the  hand of the Lord, which has
been set in the last days to gather out and re-
deem a people, who will hearken and obey the
voice of the Good Shepherd.
	Pres. Cannon goes to his labors in the halls of
Congress with the faith, the confidence and the
united prayers of this people. He is strengthe-
ened on every hand by  unseen  forces.  There
are thousands of fervent  petitions  offered  up to
heaven in his behalf, in  the homes and sanctua-
ries of  the  Saints.  The  little children; in their
simple, earnest  faith, pray  for  his  success, and
God  hears  the  prayers  of  the  pure, innocent
children.
	With all the  other  qualifications  for successwith which  Pres. Cannon  is  endowed, he  is a
strong advocate for equal  political privileges and
justice for woman in all the various departments
and  vocations of life.  This fact endears him to
the  hearts of  thousands who  are anxiously look-
ing forward with  hopefulness to the  time when
woman may at least vote and have a voice in all
questions that concern her "life, liberty and the 
pursuit  of  happiness."  Success  to  Delegate
Cannon.  We wish  him a prosperous journey, a
safe  arrival, and may he be  able to  transact all
business pertaining  to the interests  of the  Terri-
tory to his complete satisfaction, and that of his
constituents.
	There is a glorious future for Utah and although
it is  considered a  very  insignificant  position to
represent this Territory in the august national as-
semblies, who knows, but the least may yet be the
greatest in strength and power?  There are many
reasons why Utah is  likely  to  become popular.
The serious questions of social life that are agitat-
ing the mind of  men  and  women  of thought
and reflection  are  being  practically dealt  with
here, and women of ability  and intelligence are
taking an active part in the drama which is now
an enigma and puzzle, but which will eventually
resolve itself into a key  to unravel  some  of  the
intricate  problems of human  life which  are per-
plexing in the minds and  absorbing  the  interests
of scientists and philanthropsits. Marvel not at
the  assertion. Is it more  unlikely  than  that
the whole world  is  becoming  more or less con-
vinced that his continent  was  once  inhabited
by  a civilized and  enlightened  race  who  were
highly  cultivated  in the arts  and  sciences but
dwindled away and the land left  desolate.  And
yet  when  Joseph  Smith  by  revelation  and
through the power of God proclaimed these facts
backed  up  by  the  testimony  of  the  veritable
records of that identical race of people, the idea
was hooted at and its advocates held  up to ridi-
cule and  scorn  even  persecutions  heaped
upon them in consequence.
	We may be and  perhaps  are digressing  from
the subject, but nevertheless Utah has a promis-
ing future of which her people  yet will be justly
proud,  and she may shine anon, with brilliancy
in the magnificant galaxy of the States.


HOME AFFAIRS. 	
				---------
	WE see by the local  papers that Mrs. Hannah
T.  Cornaby of Spanish  Fork,  well  known  as a
writer of  verse, is about to publish her poems.

	PRESIDENTS and officers of the Y. L. M. I. A.
wishing  to  obtain  instruction in regard to mat-
ters which pertain to these Associations from the
President of  the  Central organization, should
address Mrs. E. S. Taylors, Post  Office  Box  629,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

	THE Secretaries of the several branches of the 
Y. L. M. I. A.  in  this  Stake  of  Zion, are  re-
quested  to forward full statistical and financial
reports from  the  date  of their  organization to
October 6. 1880, to  Mrs. Augusta  Joyce  Croch-
eron, Box  419, S. L. City, that  she  may furnish
a  complete  and  accurate  Stake  report for the
central organization.
 WE have  on  hand reports from several meet-
ings,  and  also  minutes  of  the  organization of
branches of the  Primary Associations, and a re-
port of a Relief Society, organized at Bluff  City,
San Juan, all of  which we shall  publish as soon
as practicable.

	NOTICE: The Secretaries  of  the  Primary  As-
sociations  of  Salt  Lake  Stake,  are  requested to
send  in  their  reports,  before  the  17th, for the 
Semi-Annual Conference.  Address: Mrs. Ellen
Clawson, care of H. B. Clawson, Salt Lake City.
			MRS. VILATE  YOUNG, Secretary.

	THE Conference  of  the  Relief Societies,  Y
L. M. I. A. and  Primary  Associations  of Salt
Lake Stake,  will  be  held  in  the  Fourteenth
Ward  Assembly  Rooms, Friday and Saturday,
the 17th and 18th insts.  Secretaries of these or-
ganizations will  please  take  notice and send in
reports  at  as  early  a  date  as  possible.  It is
hoped each branch of the several Societies in the
country, will  have  a  representative, as  this is
the Annual Meeting of the  Relief Societies.

	WE had  the pleasure  of  attending the Quar-
terly Conference  of the Relief Societies of Utah
County, which was held Friday, Nov. 27, in the 
Provo  Meeting  House,  Counselor  Mary John
presiding. Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary of  
presiding board,  and  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Howard,
Secretary  of Salt  Lake  Stake  R. S., were both
present. The reports  of  the presidents were ex-
cellent, and  the  sisters from  Salt Lake each in
turn addressed the meeting.  Mrs. Mary John,
Mrs. Lucy W.  Kimball,  and  Bishop  Johnson
also made very suitable remarks.

	SISTER E. R. Snow  Smith,  President  of all
the organizations  of  Relief  Societies,  and  her
Counselor, Zina D. Young, are at present in St.
George. They arrived  there  on the  evening of
November 19, after having  organized a Primary
Association at Washington  the  same  day. On
the following Tuesday, Nov. 23, they  expected
to re-organize the Y. L. M. I. A. at Washington;
Wednesday to  organize the  children's Primary
in the  Fourth  Ward, St. George, and  Thursday
to  meet  with  the  Relief Society in the  Third
Ward  St. George.  On  the  journey down these
sisters visited  Scipio, Holden, Fillmore, Meadow
City, Kanosh, Beaver and  Parowan; at each of
these places held meetings with the sisteres, and
in some places organized Primary Associations.

	ON Tuesday, Nov. 23,  the  Primary  Associa-
tion  of  South  Cottonwood  held  their  annual
meeting,  and  celebrated  the  occasion  with  a
party and a fair, or bazar, of the children's own
work.  Various useful  and  ornamental  articles
were  on  exhibition.  Some  of them were very
neat, and even elegant, and  all were creditable.
Among the  most  noticeable things  in  the  fair
was a large  wreath  of  flowers  made  of kernels
of  corn,  beans,  wheat,  rice,  &c.,  arranged to
represent  different kinds  of  flowers,  and then
varnished. The first  impression  on  looking  at
the wreath  is that it is made of shells, so closely
do the flowers resemeble shell  work  that we
see so much of--It was made  by a Miss.  A boy
of 16 years of age  exhibited a  number  of  speci-
mens  in  scroll-work  consisting  of brackets,
towel-rack, picture-frames  &c. Wool-flowers,
mottoes, card-receivers, tidies,  quilts, hair-work,
small  wooden  harrows  and  rakes  and also a
miniature pair of doubtetrees, all made by little
children.  Mrs.  Martha  G.  Young,  the  Presi-
dent of the Association has  been  specially ener-
getic and remarkablly patient, and perservering.
She certainly has done well and we must  add
excelled  Her example is  worthy of  imitation
by others engaged in the same  interests.  Sev-
rel ladies from the city were  invited  to  attend
the  meeting  and  entertainment  but  circum-
stances prevented any of them attending except
Sister Ellen C. S. Clawson,  who  addressed  the
children in a happy and instructive manner.  A
good  spirit  pervaded  the,  assembly.  Bishop
Rawlins and Elder Wm. G. Young were present
and many of the parents  of  the chlidren, and
visitors from other wards.

	THE circular published below  explains itself,
and therefore needs no particular comment; but
as a friend of the author, we are placed that she
has  decided  to  publish her poems in book form.
They will  be  one  more  interesting addition to
the home  libraries of the young people, Mor-


mon  history  and  Mormon  poetry  will  yet  be
sought after by the outside world.  It will  pos-
sess  originality and  contain  truth—two recom-
mendations.  There are no people anywhere who
have more subject and  material for  poetry than
the  Latter-day  Saints.   There  are  not  books
enough published;  the  people need a greater va-
riety.   Then by all means let us encourage these
home enterprises.
	CIRCULAR.

To the Presidents of  Relief Societies and Young
	Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement  Associations  of
	the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ   of   Latter-day
	Saints.
	DEAR SISTERS:—I wish  to publish a volume of
my poems, some  of  which  you  have read in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, but being unable to do so
unassisted, I would respectfully ask you to can-
vas in your meetings for subscribers.  The  book
will   be   4 3/4  inches wide, and 7 inches  long, con-
taining  about 275 pages, printed in large type on
tinted  paper, with  portrait.  Cloth  covers, one
dollar  and  a  half;  morrocco  covers,  one  dollar
and  seventy-five  cents.  Covers  handsomely
gilded.  If  subscribers  will  forward  one  dollar
each  towards  paying  the  publishers,  the  re-
mainder  can  be  paid  when the books are ready,
which will  be  announced  through  the press.  I
will  pay  postage  on  the books.  The book will
contain many pieces too long for newspaper use;
religious, domestic, sentimental and  humorous.
Hoping, dear  sisters, to soon hear from you, as
I would  like  to  have the books  in press  before
Christmas,
I remain, your co-laborer in the Gospel,
AUGUSTA  JOYCE  CROCHERON.
P. S.—Send in clubs, by registered letter.
Address,
MRS.  AUGUSTA  JOYCE CROCHERON,
P. O. Box 419,  Salt Lake City, Utah.
We endorse the above.
E. R. Snow,	Bathsheba  W. Smith,
Z. D. Young,	Elmina S. Taylor,
Emmeline B. Wells,	M. I. Horne,
Phebe W. Woodruff,	Mary A. Freeze.
Salt Lake City,  Nov. 27, 1880.

	OBITUARY.

	As a token  of  respect, we record the death of
Sister Sarah Ann Taylor,  wife  of Jabez Taylor,
and daughter  of  John and Hannah Ellis, born in
Sussex, England,  August  2d,  1847,  aged  thirty-
three years and two months.   Departed this life
October  2d, 1880, in  the  11th  Ward, Salt  Lake
City.  Deceased  leaves  a husband and  four  chil
dren, and a  host  of  friends,  who  have  cause  to
remember  her  as  a  faithful  wife,  a  devoted
mother, a  good  neighbor, and a true  Latter-day
Saint.  She was a member of the  Relief Society
and  Y. L. M. I. A., and  has  left  an  example
worthy of imitation, and  has  passed from death
unto life eternal.—Com.

	DIED, at Alpine,  Utah  Co.,  Nov.  9, of inflam-
mation of  the lungs, Ernest Albert, son of David
E. and Caroline Adams, aged seven months and
ten days.  He was  a  fine,  promising boy.  Bro.
Adams,  the father, is in Arizona,  and has never
seen  his  boy, which  seems quite sad,  "but the
Lord  giveth, and  the  Lord  taketh  away," and
those who trust in  Him  have  strength  given
them  to endure all trials and sorrows.
	M.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 101


[Column 1]
CORRESPONDENCE.

GREEN BANK, LANCASTER CO.,
					Oct. 25, 1880.

MRS. SARAH M. KIMBALL:

	Dear Sister—We have arrived at my sisters
here in old Lancaster Co.; I will now try to fulfil

[Column 2]
my promise to you. We are well, and have had
a pleasant trip, most of the time we have had
good weather, we have not met with any acci-
dent, for which we feel to thank our Heavenly
Father. We went over to Southern Kansas to
see the Bishop's brother, Mr. James Weiler; we
had a good visit and had the pleasure of seeing
that beautiful country. If it would rain, so that
the people could raise their crops, Kingman
County would soon be filled with settlers; but
the crops have failed for two years, and the
farmers are becoming discouraged. While visit-
ing in Kingman, we met with a Presbyterian
minister's wife, who appeared very anxious to
learn something about our faith and doctrines.
We lost no time, but made the best use of every
moment trying to tell her the truth. She had
read Ann Eliza's book, and wanted to know of
me what kind of a woman she was, and of course
I told her the truth as far as I knew, and I be-
lieve it had a very good impression. We left
one of Brother Morgan's pamphlets with her.
Ann Eliza's book is in a great many places
where we have been, and people read it, and
there is nothing within reach to contradict her
statements. We have had that book to fight all
the way through. I met with a blind woman
in Congress, Ohio, that was a young girl when I
was a girl. I had not seen her before since I
joined the Church. She told me that she had
never heard one word spoken in favor of the
Mormon people until that day. In other places
where we have been they are so wrapt up in
their minister and possessions, that I cannot see,
when they do not have time nor a desire to hear
the truth, how any one is to blame if they do
not hear it when they have an opportunity. I
heard a Methodist minister say a man may be a
saved man and not know it; he talked about the
kingdom of God in their hearts. It seemed to
me almost impossible that intelligent people
could sit and spend their time listening to such
nonsense. Take the mass of the people that we
have conversed with, they do not seem to under-
stand what they are in this world for, only to
eat and drink, and work and get rich. The la-
dies inquire of me how the ladies do in polyga-
my; one lady asked me, "When a man has
three or four wives, if one of them should die,
would the others go to the funeral?" All such
foolish questions, at least they seem foolish to
me; indeed, the blindness of this generation on
things pertaining to our future existence, has
never appeared to me so plain as it has on
this trip.
	Our friends have all been glad to see us come,
and seem sorry to have us go away. The Bishop
has talked and borne a faithful testimony to his
brothers and sisters; what good it will do re-
mains to be seen in the future.
	This has been a year of plenty in Indiana,
Ohio and Pennsylvania. As a general thing
they have raised good crops, and there has been
plenty of all kinds of fruit. As we traveled
through Ohio, everything did look beautiful; the
trees in the woods had been touched with frost,
and the leaves were every tint and hue. How I
did enjoy looking at the beauties of nature. I
have always enjoyed this beautiful world, but I
had not seen the woods at this season of the
year for so many years, that I enjoyed it very
much.
	I see by the papers that our folks have sent us,
that you had a splended Conference; I know the
Saints enjoyed it very much. If any one wants
to know how to appreciate the society of the
Saints in Utah let them take a trip of two or
three months off amongst their outside friends.
	I must tell you how politics are going on,
the political party strife is increasing every day.
I was at a Democratic meeting in Rousburg,
Ohio; the speakers talked about the Republican
party and Garfield and pictured things out in
such a light that a disinterested person would
set them all down as black legs and scoundrels;
then I was at a Republican meeting where they
out did the Democrats in slang and low mean
language, the whole thing is pointing towards a
war. I told one gentleman that I talked with,
my opinion was they might possibly have blood-
shed before they got through. He said he was
very much afraid of that; he seemed to feel quite
bad about the matter. The ladies think (a great
many of them) that they ought to be allowed to
vote, many of them are in favor of the Prohibi-
tion Candidates, others think if they were per-
mited to vote they would pull one anothers hair
at the polls, and that would make matters
worse. I told them they were not as good
women then as we were in Utah: for we go to
vote and go home again and never have any
trouble over it.
						ELIZABETH WEILER.


THE BOOK OF MORMON.

	The Book of Mormon is a history of the
former inhabitants of this continent, and from it
we learn that the Lord has brought people three
distinct times to live upon it, the first was the
Jaredites, they came from the Tower of Babel,
then the people of Lehi, who left Jerusalem in
the commencement of the first year of the reign
of Zedekiah King of Judah, afterwards the peo-
ple of Zarahemla came from Jerusalem, at the
time that Zedekiah King of Judah was carried
away captive into Babylon. They were discov-
ered by a company of Nephites, they united and
Mosiah was afterwards their King.
	The Book of Mormon contains enough evi-
dence within its own pages to satisfy any one of
its divine authority, many prophecies which it
contains have been fulfilled, while many remain
to be yet fulfilled. On page 234; we find that if
the Nephites rebelled against God they would be
destroyed from off the face of the earth, which
they eventually were. In the second Book of
Nephi we have a prophecy of Joseph, the son of
Jacob who was carried into Egypt. He said
that the seer that the Lord would raise up, should
bring forth the word of the Lord, meaning the
Book of Mormon, unto his seed, that is the Lam-
anites, that his name should be Joseph, and
that it should also be the name of his father, the
"word" was brought forth by Joseph Smith Jun.
In the Book of Alma we read that the plates
should be presented by the hand of the Lord,
until they should go forth unto every nation, the
Book of Mormon was translated from a part of
those plates, and more is to be revealed in due
time.
	Nephi the son of Lehi knew that the Messiah
would visit the Jews in Jerusalem in 600 years
after he Nephi had left Jeursalem, also that he
would visit the people on this continent which
visit is recorded as having taken place at the ap-
pointed time among the Nephites. In the New
Testament we read that Jesus told his disciples
that he had other sheep he would visit. Also
the new star that should appear on this contin-
ent and the night which should be as light as
day, as a sign that he came into the world was
fulfilled, having been prophesied of many years
before. Nephi says, "It shall come to pass that
the Lord will bring forth unto you the words of
a book; and they shall be the words of them
which have slumbered, the book shall be deliv-
ered to a man and he shall deliver the words to
another also it shall be hid from eyes of the
world, save three witnesses, the one to whom it
should be delivered, and a few according to the
will of God, those who are conversant with the
coming forth of the Book of Mormon will readily
see the truth of these predictions, also of showing
a copy of the characters to Prof. Anthon which
has been written about by I, believe; Elder Orson
Pratt. Nephi saw in a vision that Jesus should
be baptized beyond Jordan and also a prophet
that should prepare the way before him, mean-
ing John the Baptist, he beheld the sick healed
by him, and that the Messiah should be lifted
up on a cross. All this Nephi saw over 600 years
before it came to pass, also that the Lamanites
would become a dark and loathsome people.
	A volume might be written of prophecy ful-
filled and much is written that pertains to the
future which we may consistently infer will be
also, for it is as much an inspired work as the
Bible with the advantage of being translated
correctly.
							ANN FELLOWS.
	First Ward, Ggden City.


THE NEW TREATMENT FOR CANCER.

	THE London medical journal called the Lan-
cet, an authority amongst the professions, pub-
lishes a paper by Professor John Clay,of Queen's
College, on a new method of treating that ter-
rible disease, cancer, which has carried off so
many victims even under the most skillful
treatment.
	Professor Clay's treatment dispenses entirely
with the use of the knife. Perhaps this state-
ment will provoke a smile from surgeons of the
old school of practice, as they generally look up-
on those who pretend to the discovery of nost-
rums for the cure of cancer by drugs and plasters,
as quacks and impostors. But they may change
their minds after hearing what is certified to by
a professor of obstetrics in an English hospital,
and published in so respectable a paper as the
Lancet.
	The new remedy is Chian (or Cyprus) turpen-
tine, administered internally, the maximum
dose being twenty-five grains daily. Ordinary


turpentine, or Venice or Strasburg turpentine,
will not answer the purpose. Dr. Clay uses it
in combination with sulphur, as he found by re-
peated and varied experiments with other sub-
stances that the Chian turpentine acted with
uniform benefit in this combination.
	He describes as follows the first case in which,
after long study of the subject, he attempted the
use of the new remedy, on a woman who was
taken to the hospital afflicted with cirrhous can-
cer of the cervix and body of the uterus.
	"Hemorrhage was excessive, pain of the back
and abdomen agonizing, and cancerous cachexia-
well marked. The patient evedently had not a
long time to live. In such a case it appeared to
be justifiable to attempt to relieve the sufferings
of the patient, even if the remedy should produce
unfavorable symptoms, or should prove of no
avail. I therefore prescribed Chian terpentine,
six grains; flowers of sulphur, four grains; to be
made in two pills, to be taken every four hours.
No opiates were prescribed or lotion used. No
change was to be made in her diet or occupation.
On the fourth day after taking the medicine, the
patient reported herself greatly relieved from
pain, and was in better spirits, but she com-
plained of a large amount of discharge. It was
feared that she referred to a discharge of a san-
gineous nature. On examination, however, the
vagina was found to be filled with dirty-white
secretion, so tenacious as to be capable of being
pulled out rope-like, and this although she had
syringed herself three hours previously."
	After continuing the medicine 12 weeks with
excellent effects, the patient suddenly went
away without leaving any particulars by which
the final result could be learned. In his next
case—a woman 31 years of age—the cancer was
entirely removed in about five weeks. Several
other cases are reported of the complete cure of
cancers in different parts of the body. In some
instances the turpentine in the form of pills
could not be disgested, and the manager of the
hospital dispensary prepared:
	"An ethereal solution of Chian turpentine by
dissolving 1 oz. of the turpentine in 2 oz. of pure
sulphuric ether (anaesthetic). The ether dis-
solved the turpentine instantly. Of this solutoin,
½ oz ; solution of tragacanth, 4 oz.: syrup, 1 oz.;
flowers of sulphur,.40 grains; water to 16 oz.; 1
oz. three times daily."
	The following remarks of Dr. Clay will explain
his theory of the action of the turpentine in dis-
solving the tumor, and giving permanent relief
in a disease considered by many to be incurable.
	"The turpentine appears to act upon the per-
iphery of the growth with great vigor, causing
the speedy disappearance of what is usualy
termed the cancerous infiltration, and thereby
arresting the further development of the tumor.
It produces equally efficient results on the whole
mass, seemingly destroying its vitality,but more
slowly. It appears to disolve all the cancer cells,
leaving the vessel to become subsequently atro-
phied, and the firmer structure to gradually gain
a comparatively normal condition.
	It is a most efficient anodyne, causing an en-
tire cessation of pain in a few days, and far
more effectually than any sedative that I have
ever given. In the cases I have described no
sedative was employed in any instance, although
some cases where great pain had existed previ-
ously to commencing the treatment, large doses
had been given. Whether this arrest of pain
arises from the death of the tumor, or, as my
son suggests, is due to there being no longer ir-
ritati[-]n of the sentient nerves (in consequence of
tension being withdrawn by the removal of the
cells), the fact is the same."
	The discoverer of this method of assuaging
pain and eradicating either of the many ills that
flesh is heir to, and who makes his knowledge
known, is a public benefactor, worthy of public
reward.—Deseret News.


102	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R.  S.,  Y.  L.  M.  I.  A.   AND  PRIMARY
REPORTS.

PROVO NOV. 8, 1880.
	The Conference for the Y. M., and Y. L. M.
I. Associations  of  the   First  District of  Utah
Stake was held at Payson,Saturday,October 30,
1880.
	President M. H. Hardy, Sister  Helen  Alex-
ander,  their  Counselors  and  Stake Secretary
were  present.   A  business   meeting  for   the
officers was called  at 2 p.  m.   Satisfactory re-
ports were  given  in  from  Payson, Santaquin,

[Column 2]
Goshen, Salem,  Benjamin  and Spring  Lake,
these settlements  forming  that  District.   Bro.
Hardy referred them to the  instructions  given
by Brother  Woodruff at the last Conference re-
specting  the  Improvement   Associations,  he
also   presented   a   suggestive    programme
for   the   consideration  and   adoption   of  the
Societies throughout the  Stake, that they may
all work uniformily.
	The December number of the "Contributor"
will contain the programme  in full.
	Miss Alexander encouraged the adoption  of 
the instructions given by  Brother Hardy; as far
as practicable among the  Young Ladies.
	At a general  meeting  held  in  the  evening,
short and appropriate  addresses were delivered
by Brother A. O. Smoot Jr. and G. M. Brown,
also Sisters Alexander and Williams.
	The Spirit of  God burned  in  the  bosom  of
each individual present  and  illuminated  their 
faces.  They all  departed  with a  renewed de-
termination  to  engage  more  earnestly in  the
work  of  Improvement  amongst  the  youth  of
Zion.  
	TEENIE SMOOT,  Stake Sec'y.

	Synopsis of The Eighth Quarterly Conference
Relief Societies of Utah Stake of Zion  held  in
Provo Meeting House;  August 27th 1880,
	Present on the stand  President Margaret T.
Smoot  and  Counselor  Mary  John,  Secretary
and  Corresponding  Secretary;  also  President
A.   O.  Smoot,   Bishops Paxman,   Tanner  and
Johnson.   Meeting opened  by  the usual  exer-
cises.  Minutes  of  former  meeting  read  and 
accepted.   Reports  of  the  county  read,  also
the Primary reports.
	The Presidents of the different societies gave
verbal  reports of the  same, speaking in praise
of the  obedience and good  works of  those with
whom they were associated.   Sister  John coun-
seled the  sisters  in  regard  to   attending  their 
meetings for by so so doing  we will learn prin-
ciples to instil  into the  hearts of  our  children
etc.   Brother Tanner  said it was a satisfaction
to listen to the reports and see the interest that
is  taken  by the sisters  in  helping  the  poor.
Spoke of the propriety of always having a fund
on hand to help the poor etc.
	Afternoon  Session:  Opened  by  singing and
prayer;   Sister  Margaret  T.  Smoot  made  a
few remarks relative  to our position  and  pros-
pects;  said she  was  pleased  with  our  reports
would not say much as Sister Zina was with us
and we would like to hear from her.
	Sister Zina [--]id, I  hope  I  may  be  dictated
by the spirit  that  feeds  and  invigorates.  We
have started for  eternal  life.  Brother Joseph
said, the priesthood  would never be in  its full-
ness  without  this organization  of  the  sisters.
We  have  come  here   to-day to   feast on  the
word of God, let us be united we cannot divide
temporal and spiritual interests.   The Gentiles
fear our union more  than  any  thing else.  Let
us teach our children to  be  industrious;  bring
them up to industrious habits and  let us attend
to our political interests before  the  enemy gets
the upper  hand  of  us, as  they  have  done  in
some places.  We   have  only a  few  days to
work in and if we are faithful we are saved be-
ings.   Teach  your  daughters  that  it  is  the
noblest thing in this world  to bear the souls of
men.   This  kingdom is upward  and  onward.
This is the work of the Saints to help the Lord
to build  up the kingdom.  Some   of our sisters
who have a taste for it, should understand phy-
siology and  surgery a woman  is  more fit  in
many cases  to  attend  those  who  are  in  need
of a physician  for  such  work than   a   man.
There is plenty of work in the kingdom for all
and I am proud to be associated with the hand-
maidens of the  Lord.   May  the  Lord   enable
us to so live that we may gain eternal life.
	President  Smoot spoke  in  words  of  praise
and  encouragement  to the  sisters, said  what

[Column 3]
Sister Zina has said  covers  a  vast  amount of 
ground as much  perhaps  as is  needed for  you
to-day, there  is a  great  responsibility  resting
upon  you  as well  as   the  men;  the  training
and planting in the human mind the principles
of eternal life  and  every  virtue.   Some  think
we have too many organizations, I do not think
so.   I think  the sisters  as a  rule are more ob-
servant of their organizations than the men—I
enjoyed my visit  very much to  the  Sandwich
Islands,  they  are  a  good  people  there.   The
sisters of the  Relief  Society  gave  me  a  feast
before I left and sent love to all   the  sisters  of
the Relief Societies in  the  valley.   May   God
bless and  prosper  you  that  through  you  the
work of the kingdom may be promoted.
	Bro. Paxman made some very good remarks
spoke of  the  braiding  school that  he  visited
when on his mission where  little children from
4 to 8 years of age  were  braiding straw;  some
braiding as  high  as  twenty  yards  a  day;  ex-
horted the  sisters  to give   our children some
trade and teach them to be industrious  Sisters
let us be encouraged there is a  bright prospect
ahead, God will give the  kingdom  to us  pro-
vided we are faithful, the Spirit of God is with
us here to-day.
	Sister John said it has  been thought  best to
appoint a president for a Stake organization for
the  Primary  Association,  accordingly  Sister
Zina  Y.  Williams  was  chosen  for  that  office;
Sisters Nancy Smoot and  Mary  J. John  were
chosen as her Counselors.
	Sister Zina Y. Williams  said,  if the  Priest-
hood think I am capable of filling that place,I
will try by the help of God to do so.
	Sister Zina D. Young hoped  the time would
come when we should  have the  spirit of  testi-
mony.   Moved we  adjourned  this  meeting for
three months.
	Benediction by,   Bro. Paxman.
	The  Statistical and Financial reports  are as
follows:
	Number  of  members, 2005;  teachers,  314;
meetings  held  110:  average attendance  629;
church  papers  taken  314;  WOMAN'S  EXPON-
ENT,  104;
	Total receipts    $501,97;  total  disburements,
391,53;  to needy  331, 44;  temple 26,40;  build-
ings, 112,65;  home  industries 23,25: missionary
41,05;  books, 7,25;  silk 4,00;  sundry  disburse-
ments,15,45;  cash  on hand 195,55;  property on
hand $5,864,07;  wheat on hand 673, bush.
	C. DANIELS Sec'y.

	Special meeting of the Kanosh ReliefSociety
(Willard  County)  Nov.   12th, 1880.  Sisters
Eliza R. Snow and Zina D.  Young  visited  us
to-day  on  their  way  to  St. George,  and  we
gladly announced a meeting  so that the breth-
ren and sisters could  have  the  opportunity  of
listening to these  noble sisters.  Our  meeting
room was filled.  The meeting  was  called  to
order by President Adelia A. Kimball and op-
ened with singing and prayer.
	Sister Kimball expressed  her pleasure at re-
ceiving a visit from Sister  Snow and   Young,
and hoped they would be blessed in their labors,
and then introduced Sister Zina  D.  Young  to
the meeting.
	Sister Young  made an eloquent and earnest
appeal to all present, said our  Relief  Societies
are a power  for  good  amongst  us.  They  are
not only intended as a relief  to  the  poor,  but
also a relief to the Bishops.  The teachers  of
the Relief Societies  should  be  filled  with  the
Spirit of God.   Said there seemed to be a lack
of faith  amongst  us;  but she  had  never  seen
greater  manifestations  of  the  healing  power
than of late;  felt that the Latter-day Saints did
not  appreciate  the  blessings  of  God  as  they
ought.  The blessings of the sealing ordinances
were not appreciated—the Prophet Joseph was
chastened before  he accepted  the  law  of  Cel-
estial  Marriage.   An  Angel appeared  to  him


and threatened that God would take the priest-
hood from him,  unless he established that prin-
ciple on  the earth.  Said  the 'Relief Societies
were designed  to increase  love and  sympathy
among the  sisters, was pleased  to hear  that a
Primary  Association  had  been  organized in
Kanosh, It was one of the most important or-
ganizations.  The youth of Zion were  thirsting
for knowledge;  counseled  obedience  to the
priesthood. Urged  the  sisters  to  plant  out
mulberry  trees so that  employment  might  be
found for our children and others which would
be profitable,  and  enable the people to become
self-sustaining.
	Sister E. R. Snow said she was pleased to meet
the sisters of Kanosh.  Sixteen years had elap-
sed since she  had  passed  through  the  settle-
ment before, was  encouraged by  the  presence
of the brethren.  Our interests are both in the 
kingdom of God and  cannot  be divided, the
Gospel of Christ is designed to unite our labors.
Anything that is  calculated  to disunite comes
of evil.  The Relief Societies  are organizod as
a strong help to the  priesthood.  All  our tal-
ents, time  and energies should  be  devoted to
the kingdom  of God.  At the time of  our bap-
tism we covenanted to be his, but our profession
don't amount  to  much.  We  must  keep  our
Covenants.  We often speak  of having obeyed
the Gospel, that will require all our time in this
life and very  probably  will  have to  be  com-
pleted in eternity.  It  will  not answer for  us
to live part of God and  part  for  the world.
We need to work  out  our  own  salvation.  A
mother's first duty is at home with her children,
but how can a mother retain the Spirit of God
unless she avails herself  of  the opportunity of
obtaining  those  refreshing, enlightening inful-
ences which can only be obtained by attending
meetings in the Lord's house.
	Our Relief  Societies  were  organized by  re-
velation.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith stated
that they were not only to relieve the poor and
assist the bishops but to save souls.
	The organization is so  constituted as to  be
self-governing.  Every  good  Latter-day Saint
sister  should  be  an  active  member  thereof.
When  the  societies  were  first  organized  the
sisters crowded to the meetings, but now  many
have to be coaxed to attend.  They seem ignor-
ant of the  importance  of the work.  We  need
mutual  assistance and  can  only  obtain  it by
meeting  together.  Our  children  have been
neglected in the past and many have grown up
infidels.  Their minds have been charged with
knowledge  and  their  mental  capacities have
been crowded to the exlusion of spiritual life.
It requires  the  physical,  mental,  moral and
spiritual equally  developed  to  make  a  good
saint.  Said she would  give  the  sisters a sure
key to  success,  "Never shirk a duty!  Never!."
If small duties  are  neglected  the  light  of the
spirit withdraws.  We  need constant training.
There's not  many  of us  have as much faith as
the  2000  Nephite  boys  going  to  battle  who
"knew they would not be slain."  Our children
who  leave  this  life  in chilhood are sure of
the Celestial  Kingdom.  How can  we be sure
of it?  Only by knowing that  we are doing good
and keeping the  commandments of God. has
God given you ability sister?  It should be used
for the good of others.  We  are  responsible to
God for our talents.  The members of our soci-
eties should  be  united and  not  yield  to  fault-
finding.  When  visiting,  the  teachers should
administer to  the  sick  and was and  anoint
them also  confirm  these  blessings  upon  them
by the laying  on  of  hands.  We  need  to be
filled with the  Spirit of God.  If we put  our
trust in  God  and  earnestly  contend  for  faith
we shall receive it.  The Lord says  he will be
enquired of.  A formal  prayer  is  not  always
necessary  but  faith  must  be  exercised. The
Lord wants us to  be in earnest.  We need the
Spirit of God to guide  us in all our household
affairs.  Our position as Mothers in Israel is as
much higher than the  women of the  world as
heaven is above the earth.  We  should  be full  of
kindness  and love.  Our  labors here  are  ap-
preciated above.  A record is kept, and we can
never lose our reward.
	The Relief Societies  commenced  their work
without capital;  with  a  few  rags  and  a  little
patchwork  and  by  perseverance  have  made
their own capital.
	In 1876 when called upon  for a report to be
sent to the Centennial, the Secretaries had dis-
bursed between $93,  and $94,000.  Since then
the  branches  have  increased  and  the  mem-
bers  multiplied.  There  are  now  about  300
branches.  Some in the  Islands of  the Sea, in
Australia,, Europe and elsewhere.  All are en-
gaged in a good work and  their  labors are  re-
corded;  concluded by  exhorting  the Saints so
to live as to secure all  the  blessings of the Ce-
lestial Kingdom.
	Sister A.  Woodard said  that it was a  great
pleasure to her to hear  the sisters  speak  such
encouraging words.  It was 26  years since she
first spoke with Sister E, R. Snow in Salt Lake
City after crossing the  plains  and in the hour
of her bereavement when she spoke such words
of comfort and consolation  that it did her soul
good and she could  never  forget it;  urged the
sisters to obey  the  counsel  given  and  prayed
that God would bless  the sisters.
	After a few remarks from  Bro. H. Christen-
sen, this  most  enjoyable  meeting  was  closed
with singing and prayer.
					R. GODDARD, Clerk.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 103


[Column 1]
﻿JESSE BURNS,
OR,
WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

	It was in the spring of 1847 that Jesse
Burns and his family, consisting of a wife and
one child, started across the plains to the then
uninhabitated portion of the Rocky Moun-
tains known as the Great American Desert.
So much has been recorded of that remarkable
journey, that it is scarcely worth while to des-
cribe it. That it was an undertaking almost
unparalelled in history, can, I think, be safely
accorded. How many men left their work-
shops, their desks and counting houses, to
drive ox teams, who had never yoked a pair of
cattle in their lives? and the ludicrous mis-
takes made in their management were laugha-
ble or pitiable, as the case might be.
	Jesse was a mechanic, and knew little of
labors outside of his workshop, where he com-
manded first-class wages, providing comfort-
ably for his family. This breaking up of
home life and ties was a great blow to him, and
to his delicate wife, who had been tenderly
reared, and knew nothing of poverty or hard-
ship. Their nice little home, where they had
lived so happily, and which they had taken
such pleasure in building and adorning, was
sold for a trifle; their household furniture
went, here a little and there a little, until all
was disposed of: The outfit for their journey
was packed in the wagons, and they bade a
sorrowful farewell to their home, around which
clustered so many fond memories, and crossed
the Mississippi River, preparatory to organiz-
ing for the journey. After staying there a few
days Burns concluded, instead of waiting for
the main camp, to take his family and travel
down into Missouri, where he might find work
for the winter. Accordingly, in company with
another family, consisting of a man named
Chadwick, his wife and four children, he trav-
eled on untill they came to a creek called the
Fabby, forty miles from Nauvoo. After camp-
ing a few days, detained by the sickness of his
friend's wife, who had a little daughter born

[Column 2]
there, his wife, whose delicate frame was worn
with hardship and anxiety, was prostrated by a
lingering fever, which detained them six
weeks. Jesse, with the assistance of a woman
he had taken to assist his wife on the journey,
nursed them through the best he could; for,
although in a farming district, with people
living near by, no one offered to aid the poor
little band of sufferers.
	Minnie, their only child, was nine years old.
To her the journey, so fraught with pain and
sorrow to others, was something of a fairy
dream. The green fields and the noisy brook,
the trees where the nuts fell, for it was autumn
then, the saucy squirrels that perked their tails
over their backs, and watched them from their
leafy perches as they played among the trees,
were quite as careless of the future as them-
selves; the silvery fish that glided about in the
sparkling waters, and the birds that caroled in
the trees, were every day a new source of de-
light to those little thoughtless children, who
had spent all their lives within the limits of
a city.
	They were obliged to travel on as soon as
possible, for winter was coming on and no pro-
visions were being made for it. They moved
on slowly, stopping sometimes to rest the sick
ones, for the children had contracted fever and
ague while camping at the Fabby, and to do a
few days' work as opportunity offered.
	At length they reached St. Joseph, late in
the fall, where Jesse and his friend found work
through the winter. Soon after arriving there
the poor little baby, suffering from hardship
and exposure, sickened and died. In the spring
Jesse Burns and his family joined the camp at
Winter Quarters. Chadwick, having a larger
family and not being able to procure a suitable
ontfit, stayed at St. Joseph. Mary Burns was
an energetic and persevering woman, a patient
and devoted wife. Though feeble in body,
and ofttimes heartsick and weary, she proved
herself equal to every emergency. She left
her assistant at Winter Quarters, for they were
going to a distant country, they hardly yet
knew where, and could have no supplies except
what they carried with them, until such times
as crops could be raised; therefore they must
not be burdened with unnecessary expenses. 
Accordingly, a small boy was taken to assist
with the teams, and they started on. After
traveling a few hundred miles the boy grew
homesick, and meeting his brother going back
with the pioneers, he begged to go too. 
	Jesse thought it would throw too much hard-
ship on his wife to let the teamster go, as he
could only drive one team himself, and if the
boy went back she would be obliged to drive
the other; but she said, let him go; the team
was an anxiety to her anyway, as she conld
not trust him with it alone; she would manage
very well. During the rest of the journey she
drove the team, yoked and unyoked the oxen,
in addition to her culinary and family cares. 
This may seem an exaggeration, when it is
taken into consideration that she was a woman
of education and refinement, delicately reared,
and previous to her journey accustomed to
keep an assistant in her household labors, but
I can answer that it is no exaggeration, that
my narrative is strictly true. 
	The valley was at length reached, the jour-
ney over, and then came the struggle for the
necessaries of life. First, there must be shelter
made for the winter, and wood provided. There
being plenty of timber in the mountains, the
houses were built mostly of logs; but as the
weary cattle were hardly fit for such laborious
work, many built their cabins of adobies, or
sun-dried brick, after the Mexican or Califor-
nian style. The houses were covered with
poles and willows; over which was thrown dirt
to the depth of a foot or more; it was several
years before shingles were made for building
purposes. This rude covering served very well


except in hard storms, when the people were
deluged with muddy water. Dishes were set,
umbrellas spread, and every available means
used for protection, but many a merry joke
passed around when the weather cleared and
the bedding was spread out to dry.	Jesse
Burns, in company with another man, made a
saw pit and split logs, and sawed lumber for
others, and, as soon as he had sufficient mate-
rial, built himself a house; but owing to the
primitive manner of sawing, it was late in De-
cember before he had a shelter for his family.
The houses were all built in a fort, or a hollow
square, formed by joining the houses in lines.
Mary's cabin was built of sawed logs, and al-
though it had neither floor nor ceiling, she felt
that she was supremely blessed in having a shel-
ter from the cold storms of winter. It is said
that God tempers the wind to the shorn lamb.
They felt to realize the truth of this, for the
weather being unusually mild,the stock was en-
abled to live on the range; otherwise they must
have perished,for owing to their late arrival the
people could not possibly provide hay for the
winter. Men worked in the canons through
the winter, notwithstanding the severe storms
and hardships of a mountain climate caused
much suffering to those who were reared in a
milder country. For they came from the
sunny South, ns well as from the Granite hills
of New Hampshire, also from European coun-
tries, where many of them knew nothing of
outdoor labor.

To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MORE TALK.
		    ---
	FROM HOMESPUN.
		   ------
	Dear, dear!  how  busy  I've  been  since  you
were  here  before.  I  have  had  little  or  no
time to think of anything else but cans, catsup,
preserves and  pickles.  The  girls  were  here
the other day, and I  gave  them  quite a bit of 
my  mind  about  what  kind  of  husbands to
look out  for.  I  don't  suppose  above  one or
two will ever think of it again, but  it  may do
some  good--Quien  Sabe?  I do wish I might
help  some  of  them to avoid  the quicksands of
married  life.  I  am  real  glad  you  brought
Fanny along, for  I  want to  say a word or two
to her.  How soon do you  and Alec expect to
be  married?  A  month?  Now, my  girl, you
have a bridge  of  one  month between  you and
the great Unknown beyond.  There are  many
wise, good things written  about this sometimes
painful, sometimes beautiful  thing, called mar-
riage;  but come, lay  your head in my lap, and
let me tell you a few things with my lips.  They
will speak with  so  much  more  force than has-
tily-read  written  words.  You  love  him, dear,
don't you?  How anxious  you are to reach the
first cycle in your wedded life with as much of
the sweet passion of love as now possesses you,
are  you not?  I  won't tell  you  how carefully
you must guard  your love, but rather  tell you
how to cherish it.  When  you are  newly wed-
ded, many little things will be unnoticed by you
that  will  afterwards  be  very  pregnant  of re-
sults.  The first, and, I think, most  important
of  all  things  is,  avoid  looseness  in  talk, in
 thoughts, in deeds.  Oh, Fanny, your womanly
modesty is  your own bright  jewel;  never let  it
slip from you.  The old adage  about  familiar-
ity breeding  contempt is more applicable here
than anywhere else.  Let your married life be
as pure,  as  sacred,  as  precious  as  when you
first thrilled beneath  your  lover's  kiss.  Be
true to your womanly instincts.  You may not
be blessed, as  I  am,  with  a  husband  who  has
been carefully reared by a modest, pure mother;
but  at  least  you  can  inspire  a  feeling of re-
spect in the breast of him you  love, which re-
spect is the chit of the love you prize.  If you
commence  by  allowing  yourself  gradually to
become selfish, goodby  to  your peace. it's no
use saying love is unselfish.  Human nature is
selfish.  And  you'll  find  out,  if  you  are not
careful, that  your wishes and Alec's will clash
sometimes, and  perhaps  cause  a  jar.  At  first
it is no  sacrifice to give up your way;  nor  will
it ever be if you do not allow yourself  to make
it one.  Remember, dear, in proportion as you
seek  the  comfort  of  your  husband, so  will he
strive to  make  your  life one  of  peace.  Many
wives  think  that  in  simply  performing house
hold duties  their  part  is  performed.  Humor
him!  That's it, my dear, humor him. If you
find Alec has any little peculiarity  of habit or
character, don't  first  think  of it  sulkily, then
grumble about it.  Love  him, and pet him, as
your mother loved and petted you.  There is a
spice of the mother in every true woman's love
for  her  husband.  On  the  other  hand,  don't 
begin  anything  you  can't  carry  out. Don't
do your  work and his chores, and call yourself
a devoted wife for it.  Devoted  fiddlesticks!
I've no  patience with women who carry water,
wood,  etc.;  yes,  even  chop  wood,  water  the
garden, do  all the  lifting, tugging  and tinker-
ing  around the house.  Alec will do anything
for you when  first  married;  never let him slip
out  of  the  habit  of  doing  your  little  chores.
If he  isn't  thoughtful  of  you  before you have
children, he never will be after.  Remember this.
And wo unto  you  when, with  baby  in arms,
and two or  three at your knee, you  drag your-
self around to do all and more than your share.
Be  thoughtful  of  your  husband,  and  if  he  is
not  so  of  you, teach  him  with  gentleness and 
kindness to perform  those  little  acts  of  home
courtesy  that  so  cheer  and  brighten  married
life.  Time to go home?  Well, come when you
can.  Will I tell  you  about how  to make the
fanccy trifles  I  have  here?  O  yes, some  day,
perhaps.   Goodby.
SALOAME.


[Column 1]
WARNER'S
SAFE
[image of a black worker]
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE

HAVE YOU SEE THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
	If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. ☞ Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO., CHICAGO, ILL.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
To be found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

[Column 2]
ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Fall and Winter Goods. ☜

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE on Main St., Old Constitution Buildings.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
16th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, CAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.
☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed !

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE TOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS, WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST., OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, [54].


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights  of  the  Women  of Zion,  and  the  Rights  of  the  Women of all Nations.

