VOL. 9.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1880.		No. 3.


OFFENCES VERSUS TRUTH.

	"Thy Word is Truth."—Jesus.
	"It must needs be that offenses come but wo, to him
by whom they come"

While facts are true, we needs must rue—
	That oft they are offensive;
But Truth—the Eternal word of God—
	Is pure, as comprehensive.
His Truth is pure, it must endure,
	For Right it sanctions ever:
His law we deem the Truth supreme—
	'Tis just, and wrongs us never.

Too much alas! for Truth doth pass,
	Man's soul it oft embitters;
The good inclined, are greived to find,
	"All is not gold that glitters."
Perchance we trust, to men unjust,
	And find them much too clever;
And so, forsooth, we blame the Truth,
	But Truth betrays us never.

And not a few, whose hearts are true—
	Whose simple word suffices,
By sharpers bold are caught and sold,
	Betrayed by mean devices.
Pretentions and pretenders too,
	Should be combated ever;
Fraud, should be sifted through and through,
	But Truth, defrauds us never.

'Tis well, 'tis wise, to scrutinize
	Their plans who feign to bless us;
'Tis braver far, with wrong to war
	Than to aid what would oppress us.
Truth! S[-]ck and hold as purest gold,
	That men from dross dissever,
Is aught amiss? be sure of this,
	By Truth, we're injured, never.

Why should we choose, to Truth abuse,
	To good by evil measure?
	If others lie, shall we deny
The Truth? In our displeasure?
	Truth makes us free, and yet we see—
	The wheat and tares together;
Alas! these tares, exist as snares—
	But Truth, ensnares us never.

These tares must with the wheat remain
	Until the harvest season;
Why 'tis ordained, Christ has explained,
	And potent is the reason.
When God doth reap, no tares He'll keep,
	They'll all be burnt together;
But the garner'd wheat, all clean and sweet
	Like Truth, will perish, Never!

Lo! God is pledged to wisdom give
	Most liberally and surely
To every one, upbraiding none,
	Who ask Him for it purely.
Armed with this key, both you and me
	Offences can out-weather;
'Tis wisdom's plea—the just will be
	By Truth offended, Never!

What-ever others say or do,
	Or friend, or foe, or brother,
We must be to our conscience true—
	We're judged not for another.
For strength each day, 'tis well to pray,
	To help our true endeavour
Offences lead the weak astray,
	But truth misleads us never.

					EMILY HILL WOODSMANSEE.


THE ladies engaged in home industries and
enterprises of various kinds, should make a good
representation of their several departments of
work on the 24th inst, especially as they enjoy
the privilege of the franchice, of which nearly
all the women are deprived.


[Column 1]
BYRON'S MONUMENT.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	The mortal remains of England's greatest
poet, have been in the tomb fifty-five years,
with no other monument than the simple tab-
let placed in Hucknal Church, in the vaults of
which lie his mother and many of his ancestors,
and where his remains repose by the side of his
mother, by his own request. This tablet is Gre-
cian of pure, white marble, and bears the follow-
ing inscription in Roman capitals.
	In the vault beneath Carebury, where are
many of the ancestors of his mother, lie the
remains of George Gordon Noel Byron, Lord
Byron of Rochdale, in the County of Lancaster,
the author of "Childe Harold's Pilgrimage."
	This, with a circular medallion upon the
House in Holles Street, Cavendish Square, Lon-
don, where he was born, have hitherto been
the only public memorials of one, whose rest-
ing place was legally and honorably won in the
great Mausoleum of the country, Westminster
Abbey; but through the puritanical, canting,
small-mindedness of Doctor Blomfield, Bi-
shop of London; at that time, the doors were
shut against the illustrious dead! The subject
was brought before the House of Lords, and the
great Lord Brougham defended the case, and an
angry altercation between him and Bishop
Blomfield took place in that august assembly,
but the Bishop carried the day, and Huckmal
Church, like a fostering nurse, opened her doors
and received the precious remains. Could By-
ron have dipped his magical pen into the
ink that he ever made immortal, would
not the scene have been a second edition of
"English Bards and Scotch Reviewers?"
	Five years have elapsed since, at a meeting
of the enthusiastic promoters of a memorial to
Lord Byron, held at Willis's Rooms, under the
presidency of Lord Beaconsfield, a stanza from
the fourth canto of "Childe Harold" was quoted
with telling force by one noble speaker. Re-
minding his appreciative hearers that the
famous poet was not without consciousness of
his own assured immortality, Lord Rosslyn re-
peated the lines:

"But I have lived, and have not lived in vain;
My mind may lose its force, my blood its fire,
And my frame perish e'en in conquering pain;
But there is that within me which shall tire
Torture and Time, and breathe when I expire;
Something unearthly, which they deem not of,
Like the remembered tone of a mute lyre,
Shall on their soften'd spirits sink, and move
In hearts all rocky now the late remorse of love."

	Lord Byron penned these lines from the
"Eternallity," was there not a prophetic fore-
taste in his mind, that seven years after his
death the greatest of English reviewers would
speak of him in his old enemy the Edinburgh
Review, in the following terms: "At 24 Lord
Byron found himself on the highest pinnacle of
literary fame with Scott, Moore, Wordsworth,
Southey, and a crowd of other distinguished
writers beneath his feet! There is scarcely an
instance in history of so sudden a rise to so dizzy
an eminence." From 1831 to the present time
the fame of the noble poet has suffered neither
abatement or decline. Despite the insurrection
which has now and again burst forth against
some of his dark portrayals, the reaction of public
opinion, not only in England, but especially in
the United States, and wherever the English
tongue is spoken, have set "the most celebrated
Englishmen of the 19th century" upon a sum-
mit to which eyes and hearts of all countries are
offering their incense of love and gratitude!
	But to return to the doings of this committee
convened as before described. Once again was
an effort made to render something like the just
homage due from a great country to one of her
greatest sons, and at last to these promoters of
Byron's monument England is indebted for
the bronze statue, by Belt, now placed in Ham-
ilton Gardens. By the efforts of this committee,
three thousand five hundred guineas were col-
lected from the pockets of men and women scat-
tered far and wide over the earth, who, in Em-

[Column 2]
erson's words, "speak the commercial and con-
quering tongue of England." At last the poet
is before his country, the land of his birth; as he
looked and seemed when in 1813, he was the idol
of London society, the cynosure of every eye.
Mr. Belt is the favored artist, and his work will
render him an immortality in art. The statue
is in a sitting posture in deep repose, and the
manuscript of "Childe Harold" upon his knee;
contemplating from the rock that supports his
colossal figure, the ocean, which was ever his de-
light. At his feet crouches the Newfoundland
dog "Boatsawin," whose epitaph his noble mas-
ter wrote so feelingly for his love and constancy.
The yachting dress in which the figure is
clothed, suggests the element upon which the
poet's eyes are bent, and the entire absence of
affectation in his mien and attidude harmonizes
with his well-known antipathy to the theatrical
and pretentious ways. The generous Greek Gov-
ernment have contributed the pedestal, which
is of Hellenic marble, hewn from the quarries of
the Peloponnes, in honor of the hero, who, "hav-
ing dreamed that Greece might still be free,"
died in his efforts to restore her to liberty!
	In presence of this statue, let the voice of
blame, which may have some justice in it, and
of censure, which is wholly malignant, be for
ever silenced, as, in common with Sir Walter
Scott, writing upon the day following Lord By-
ron's death, "We feel as if a great luminary of
heaven had suddenly disappeared from the sky,
at the moment when every puny telescope was
levelled for an examination of the spots which
had dimmed its brightness." According to Lock-
hart, Scott's poem of "Rokeby" had failed alto-
gether to gain public approbation, because
simultaneously with its appearance "the deeper
and darker passions of 'Childe Harold' the auda-
city of its morbid voluptuousness, and the
melancholy majesty of the numbers in which it
defied the world, had taken the general imagi-
nation by storm." Such, however, was the
generous verdict of the author of "Rokeby"
which "Childe Harold" had smothered.
	Hucknal Church is about two miles from
Byron's paternal home, Newstead Abbey, and
about the same distance from Annesley, the
home of Mary Chaworth. In these regions the
poet boy had written his first effusions, and con-
ceived the most impassioned and perhaps the
purest love of his life for Mary Chaworth. I
would like to write more, but have no space but
for, Resquiescat in pace.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs Garfield is reported to have been called
upon by more than 2000 people at Mentor,
June 8th. The lawn of her pretty home was
crowded by eager talkers, and in the drawing-
room stood Mrs. Garfield receiving the congra-
tulations other visitors with great composure,
yet with signs of frank pleasure.—Woman's Jour-
nal.

	It is always healthy for young people also and
for everybody to note the rise of a man like Gar-
field, and of a woman, we may add, like Mrs.
Garfield. It is an old tradition, but it is a prec-
ious one that comes true every state and national
election, that future presidents, governors and
statesmen and their wives sit on the benches of
the primary schools of to-day,and taste the life of
infancy in all the common-place circumstances of
the great people.

	Mrs Garfield will honor the White House by
her gentle presence. She is a woman of a sweet
and winning spirit, and of bright and cultivated
mind. As Miss Lucretia Rudolph she was an
exceedingly pretty and interesting girl, and her
marriage with the General was on both sides one
of ideal affection. Her intellect has kept pace
with her husband’s; she has studied the book she
studied, taken up languages with him, and has
so trained herself as to fit her boys for college in
the most thorough manner. She is an excellent
Latin scholar, and is also proficient in several
modern languages. She is a little lady, graceful
in carriage,and having most frank and charming
manners.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		LIFE INCIDENTS

	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The scenes which are familiar to the Latter-
day Saints of an earlier day, are but little known
to those who have since been gathered from the 
different nations, nor to those who have grown
up in the peaceful valleys of the Rocky Moun-
tains. Until within a few years, the world
knew nothing of our true history. Falsehoods
were manufactured and sent out to serve the
purposes of our enemies, and apostates have been
their willing tools. The bitter prejudices felt by
the outsido world makes it almost an impossi-
bility for them to believe or become acquainted
with our faith and principles; but the history
ot this people is always interesting to the Latter-
day Saints, and incidents of our travels and ex-
perience are calculated to benefit the young and
rising generation. The spirit of unbelief which
has crept into our midst is lamentable, and a
stupor seems to have come over a portion of this
people, who, I sometimes fear, will need the
judgments of God to awaken them from its influ-
ence, and we know that they are sure to come
upon the slothful and disobedient, if they do not
repent.
	I can truly say that I feel an interest in the
welfare of all, and if some of the incidents of my
life could impress the minds of others, as they
have my own, I would feel amply repaid for
writing them. There seems to be a great curi-
osity in the minds of strangers about the “Mor-
mon” women, and I am willing, nay, anxious,
that they should know the true history of the
faithful women of Mormondom. In the brief
sketches which have been given from time to
time, the trials and sufferings of the Latter-day
Saints have scarcely been touched upon. Since
writing my reminiscences I have thought of the
names of many who lived and died for the truth.
Among these was the widow of Brother David
W. Patten. She was a noble and self-sacrificing
woman, who left all for the Gospel’s sake, and
her husband being a missionary, she was
early thrown upon her own resources, and
though she had a slight and delicate frame she
had a persevering and energetic spirit, was
neat, and naturally of a refined nature and
could not be happy in idleness. She was a
seamstress by trade and worked for her living.
The hardships and privations incident to a
Western life, particularly to the Latter-day
Saints, soon broke her down and brought on
consumption. After her husband was killed,
she, being, like the rest destitute, felt that she
must do something for her support, and not
finding anything else that she could do, conclud-
ed to take a few boarders. Among them was a
young man who, though not a member of our
Church, bore a good character, and, to be brief,
he loved her, and seeing her lonely condition,
proposed to marry her. She accepted. This
step, at the time, caused many to think her
weak in the faith. When we afterwards met
her in Quincy,Illinois, she told my parents why
she married without asking counsel, said she
was no longer able to work and had no one to
take care of her, and she knew what the counsel
would be if she asked it, and not wishing to dis-
obey, she did iton her own responsibility. As
soon as he heard and-understood the Gospel he
received it. After father came, to us in Qniney,
they having a house with two rooms, gave us
one to live in while father went up to Com-
merce to prepare a place for us. His name was
Bentley, he was a carpenter by trade, industri-
ous and well able to provide everything she
needed, or desired, and though a number of
years younger than she, he was perfectly devot-
ed to her, and his study by day and by night
was to make her comfortable. No one could
show greater love and tenderness toward a wife
than he did, until her spirit took itsflightwhich,
if I remember rightly, was the second year after
the Saints settled at Nauvoo. He lived but a
few years after her death. She was an exem-
plary woman, and enjoyed the love and respect
of all who knew her. While we were living
with them in Quincy, when I was about ten
years of age, I had a severe attack of fever, and
a heavy storm coming on, the weather was
quite cold, and not having a fire-place in the
room, mother pieced a kettle of live coals in the
centre of the apartment. Just as she stepped
out into the other room, my little brother, aged
about four years, came in and accidentally fell
into the kettle, and burned him badly. I was so
frightened that I was upon the point of leaping
out of bed when mother heard him scream, but
he sprang out before she got into the room and
cried for her to anoint him with the, conse-

[Column 2]
crated oil. She immediately administered it,
and was silently praying, when he cried, “Pay
loud.” She obeyed him, and in a few minutes
he was sound asleep.  He never cried from the
burn after the oil was administered, and it was
healed from that moment. What a pity we
cannot always have faith like a little child, and
instead of calling upon doctors who have no
faith in the ordinances, call on the Great Physi-
cian, who giveth freely to all and upbraideth
not. When we can do this, there will be less
suffering and fewer graves to weep over.
	In the month of July, father moved us up to
Commerce; he pulled down an old log stable be-
longing to a Rro. Bozier, about one mile from
the river, and laid up the logs at the end of the
Bozier house (which had a number of rooms and
contained several families; he put on a few
shakes” to cover it, but it had no floor or chink-
ing; when it rained the water stood near ankle
deep on the ground; the chimney of the other
house, being built on the outside, served us as a
fireplace. My mother, not liking the dirt floor,
had a few little boards laid down to serve as a
substitute. I remember the evening of the 23d
of August, 1839,we were visited by a heavy rain
storm, and those boards floated on the water;
My mother had bread light and ready to bake in
a tin oven or reflector, and it had to be propped
up so as to bake the bread before the fire, which
was built upon andirons. Under these
peculiar circumstances I was allowed to go and
stop with one of our neighbors, and when
I returned in the morning I was informed that
a little stranger had arrived that night. This
was truly a wonderful event and created quite a
sensation in our midst. He was named after
David Patten, and although born in a stable, he
was a prince in our estimation.  This was their
sixth child, four of whom were then living.
Father purchased five acres of woodland from
Hyrum Kimball, and Brother Parley P. Pratt
purchased the same number of acres adjoining.
They went to work and cut logs and invited a
few of the old citizens; viz.: Brother Bozier Squire
Wells, Louis Robinson and others, to assist in
putting up their houses, as our people were
mostly prostrated by sickness. Brother Pratt
soon sold out his improvements and went with
his family on a mission to England. Father was
building his chimney and had just got to the ridge
of the house when he was taken down with
chills arid fever. The hardships and exposures
consequent on beidg driven from Missouri in the
winter, had made the Saints easy subjects for
the ague to prey upou in that swampy country;
nearly all were taken down, one after another,
and the ones who were not shaking or delirious
with fever, would do their best towards waiting
upon those that were. Many had to see their
dear ones die and not one of the family able to
follow them to their last resting place; hundreds
were lying sick in tents and wagons. The Pro-
phet visited and administered words of consola-
tion and often made tea and waited upon them
himself and sent members of his own family
who were able to go, to nurse and comfort the
sick and sorrowful. He was often heard to say
that the Saints who died in consequence of the
persecutions, were as much martyrs as the ones
who were killed in defence of the Saints or mur-
dered at Haun's Mill. There are many living
martyrs who remember those days and some
will yet wear a martyr’s crown. The powers of
darkness seemed to have combined to put a stop
to the work of the Almighty, but Satan’s plans
have always been frustrated, and they always
will be.
	One night while we were living in the Bozier
House, we were awakened by our mother, who
was struggling as though nearly choked to death.
Father asked her what was the matter, when
she could speak, she replied, that she dreamt
that a personage came and seized her by the
throat and was choking her. He lit a candle
and saw that her eyes were sunken and her nose
pinched in, as though she were in the last-stage
of cholera. He laid his hands upon her head
and rebuked the spirit in the name of Jesus, and
by the power of the holy Priesthood commanded
it to depart. In a moment afterwards, some
half a dozen children in other parts of the house
were heard crying, as if in great distress; the
cattle began to bellow and low, the horses to
neigh and whinnow, the dogs barked, hogs
squealed, and the fowls and everything around
were in great commotion, and in a few minutes
my father was called to lay hands on Sister
Bently,the widow of David Patten, who lived in
the next room. She was seized in a similar man-
ner to my mother. They continued quite feeble
for seyeral days from the shock.

[Column 2]
	One day after this circumstance had taken
place, my father was visiting the Prophet. In
his diary he says: “He took me a walk by the
river side and requested me to relate the occur-
rence at the Bozier house. I did so; and also told
him the vision of evil spirits in England on the
opening of the Gospel to that people. After I
had done this, I asked what all these things
meant and whether or no there was anything
wrong in me. “No, Brother Heber; at that
time when you were in England, you was then
nigh unto the Lord. There was only a vail be-
tween you and Him, but you could not see Him.
When I heard it, it gave me great joy, for I then
knew that the work of God had taken root in the
land; it was this that caused the Devil to make
a struggle to kill you.” Joseph then said, the
nearer a person approaches the Lord, a greater
power would be manifest by the Devil to pre-
vent the accomplishment of the purposes of God.
He then gave me a relation of many contests
that he had had with Satan, and his power had
been made manifest from time to time since the
commencement of bringing forth the Book of
Mormon.”
	In another place he says: “I crossed the river
to Commerce with several of the Twelve, and as
I was standing by the railing of the boat, look-
ing at thebeautiful site of Nauvoo,and I remark-
ed, ‘It is a very pretty place, but not a long
abiding place for the Saints.' These remarks
reached Elder Rigdon and family, and caused
them to feel somewhat sad, as they were well
situated in a nice stone house built by Dr. Isaac
Galland, and otherwise comfortably situated.
When we met in council in Joseph’s house, the
case of 	*		*		"was brought up for in-
vestigation and disposed of in a summary man-
ner. Elder Rigdon then arose and said he had
some feelings toward Elder Kimball, saying, I
should suppose that Elder Kimball had passed
through suffering and privations, mobbings and
drivings enough to learn to prophecy good of
Israel.’ I began to expect I was going to receive
quite a chastisement from Elder Rigdon, know-
ing his peculiar temperament, I arose upon my
feet and said, ‘President Rigdon, I’ll prophecy
good concerning you, all the time, if you can get
it?’ On hearing that, Joseph had a hearty laugh
with the brethren, when Elder Rigdon yielded
the point."


IN WHAT DOES BEAUTY CONSIST.

	There are many things in nature around us
which we look upon and recognize with enthusi-
astic ecstsay as being sublimly beautiful, filling
our souls with awe,reverence yea,love,raising our
thoughts, from mortal cares to loftier themes,
and inspiring us with adoration for the Creator
of so much beauty, harmony and melody.
	The grandeur of the mountains as ‘they tower
one above the other, higher and higher until
they appear to touch the very sky, and some-
times seem to reach far away into the realms of
space—whether they are crowned with eternal
snow, or burning with the lava-fire of nature’s
own kindling must inevitably strike the beholder
as one of the most truly beautiful features which
the earth affords.
	Who could ever have watched the glory;of an
exquisitely charming sunset without feeling
that it surpassed in real beauty all the
works of art; and that extravagant as the
language might be used to express its beauty, it
was still inadequate to the subject.
	The forests,the ocean, the lakes,and the rivers,
all these are indeed truly beautiful; the flowers
in all their vast varieties of hues and shades and
forms are among the most delightfully beautiful
of Earth’s wounderful productions. We cannot
enumerate the objects of beauty of which our
earth is filled—there is no stopping place, for
whatever is perfect, cannot fail to be beautiful.
To my mind, perfection seems to be the true de-
finition of beauty, but where there is a defect
beauty is marred. Nature’s works are perfect—
they are really beautiful.
	The sentiment of beauty is a true inspiration—
it elevates and refines the mind,in whatever form
of life it is presented. One must feel its influence,
and the inspiration of its presence in both ani-
mate and inaniamte nature.			M.
	Salt Lake City, June 1872.


FAITH AND CONFIDENCE.—The following is
clipped from the News, Maysville, Kansas: "In
calling the attention of our readers to 'Warner's
Safe Remedies,' we do so with a perfect faith in
the efficiency of their preparations, and an un-
bounded confidence in the truth of all that is
good and said of them."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		19


WILD-WOOD LEAVES AND FLOWERS.

Dear leaves and blossoms, 'tis but poor showing
	Of tender love; with ruthless hand
To pluck thee, while so brightly glowing,
	On grassy knoll, or rocky dell,
				Or bed of sand.

Sweet wild-wood gems, to thus imprison
	Thy quivering forms, crush out thy light
And dim the beauty God hath given
	Would seem to prove but selfish love,
				And cruel might.

Yet for no idle whim or pleasure,
	I cull the from the mossy banks,
Thy dainty blossoms I fain would treasure,
	As simple token, of love unspoken,
				And grateful thanks,

To one who loves with fervent passion
	Sweet Nature's gifts, and Nature's ways,
Whose gentle hands with tender fashion,
	With love and pleasure, these flowers will treasure,
				For many days.

An honored friend, and gentle sister,
	Whose noble works our praise hath won.
Go little flowers and gently whisper,
	Of loving thoughts and grateful hearts,
				To cheer her on.

							ESTHER A. BENNION:


[Column 1]
SEEK A REWARD.

	'Tis early morning as I sit here at my window
watching the golden sun slowly rise above the
mountain tops, and listening to the sweet song-
sters of the forest just beginning their day's
work and warbling such sweet notes; and the
cocks just calling up the traveler and the toiler,
I seem to be filled with a spirit of love for all
mankind, but more especially for my Creator.
Oh, how merciful and how good is God. How
beautiful is this earth! how wicked are many of
the people. We have trials to endure but we
have a reward to gain; and how few of us care
for the reward if only we can escape the trials;
but how trifling are these trials compared with
the great reward, salvation. What a word is
that, oh, how great, how comforting. What
bcots it, if the path of life is rugged and its
steeps are hard to climb? The earth also is rug-
ged and its steeps are hard to climb, but as God
has given us power to mount these great
heights of nature so will He give us power to
mount the rugged steps of life; and grateful
ought we to be to Him that He has given us
trials, by which to gain a reward, for rewards
given, not earned, are little appreciated. I had
a dream one day, not in my sleep, but a waking
dream and if you like I will tell you of it. 'Twas
a lovely afternoon and the sky was as blue as
ever and the air was fragrant with the scent of
flowers, and the melodious song of the meadow-
lark, the thrush and the humming bird rang
sweetly in my ear; the earth was so beautiful
with its waving grass, its flowers, its lakes and
streams, its mountains and dells. All nature
seemed to join in praise to the Creator and my
soul joined harmoniously with nature.
	As I strolled along, I stopped near a cool and
silvery stream and there pillowed my head on
the turf and sank into a sweet reverie. There
in a lovely valley where all was happiness and
joy were collected from all parts beautiful little
children. Surely, thought I, this must be the
vale of my childhood's dream, this must be fairy-
land, for they are all so happy and so beautiful,
and so perfect and so good. As I watched I saw
a portal where the little ones had entered, and
I beheld a weary young traveler, standing as
though waiting for admission; presently a dear,
kind old man walked to the portal and opened
it. "May I come in," the child asked, "I am so
tired, for I have carried this lame back all my
life and my legs are so weak and weary, and I
want a little rest!" The old man opened wide the
gate and said, "Come in, my dear young friend,
you have earned the rest you seek and you
shall find it here." He entered and his weakness
seemed to leave him and his lame back grew
strong and then I lost sight of him in this beau-
tiful throng, for he grew like the rest and he
joined in the dance and sports and pastimes
and all seemed happiness again. Presently the
portal opened again and a little girl softly
felt her way along until she touched the dear
old man. Then she said, "Please, sir, may I
come in. I am very weary, and my way is so

[Column 2]
hard to go; for I am blind?" The old man kiss-
ed the little child and said, "Come my darling
and I will show you such lovely sights and you
shall join with my merry children in the dance."
But the little girl said, "O master, I cannot see
these lovely sights for I have been blind all my
life and I have so longed to see the dear blessed
earth and sky and the many pretty things of
nature;" and the old man answered, "Yes, my
child you have endured much and now we will
throw away the mist from your eyes and you
shall enter and join with the children." She
entered the gate and saw the pretty sights and
joined in the dance, and I lost sight of her for
she become like the rest. So again and again
the gate opened and others were ushered in yet
none entered with a burden, all these were left
behind. Some laid down bundles of sorrow
they had borne, but all burdens great and small
were left behind, and all who entered became
blithe and merry and joined in the dance and
true enjoyment of the beautiful place. Once I
looked when the old man was talking earnestly
with one whom, it seemed, could not enter, what
is this, thought I, the child is beautiful and yet
she cannot enter. In a moment I heard the old
man say, "My child, you have no burden, you
do not even sorrow for those you have left be-
hind, go back to the world and earn a reward.
Tarry longer on the earth and you will meet
with sorrows and many will be the rocks that
fall in your way, and when you come again you
shall have the reward that you have earned."
The child turned away little caring for she had
no sorrow or burden and of course she was light,
free and happy, but this had been the first re-
buff, this was the first rough place in her path,
but she stumbled many a time on her way for I
watched her as far as the eye could reach. I
seemed to lay in a trance and for a long, long
time I watched the happy throng. As I looked,
again the portal opened and the old man laid
his hand upon the little child that he had sent
back to earn her reward. I heard her softly
whisper, "Oh master, let me in, I am so very
weary now. I went back and found
my way so hard. Many taunted me
and called me proud and vain and wicked, and I
had become so, but no one ever told me and I
did not know that it was wrong till I came here,
but I bore the taunts and I tried to overcome
my pride and vanity and now may I come in?"
The old man gently took the burden from the
child and ushered her into the valley of happi-
ness, and she joined in the happy dance and
pastimes. A mist came before me now and the
joyous scene passed from before me. For a long time
I lay almost insensible, then I arose and thanked
God for what I had seen. Yes, arose feeling bet-
ter prepared now for my life's journey and the
burden laid upon all, of which I must bear my
share. O friends take warning from this little
picture, and do not frown and murmur because
you have burdens to bear, for if you have no bur-
den to lay at the portal of heaven, the gates of
that glorious place will not be open to you, and
the keeper will say "Go back to earth, and
bravely earn a reward, before you expect to enter
here and receive one."					W.


﻿PRIMARY ASSOCIATION.

	Annual Report of the Primary Association of
Moroni, Sanpete Co. Organized by Mrs. E. B.
Wells and Mrs. E. Howard August 6th, 1879
with 138 members, increased to 203 during 10
months. Meetings held weekly on Saturday
afternoon. Average 32 meetings; (they being
suspended for a time on account of diphtheria).
Cards of merit distributed once.
	The exercises of the meeting are, after the
usual opening exercises, remarks made by Presi-
dent and Counselors; then recitations, songs,
essays, and select readings by the children: a
number of children bear their testimony; ques-
tions asked etc. They have taught them the
Ten Commandments and first principles of the
Gospel. We have received from the children on
their 5 and 10 cts. donations $10,00 and gleaned
8 bushels of wheat. Have had one party for
which the brethren and sisters donated money
enough to may all expenses. Have donated to
Manti Temple $4.60; paid out for presents for
the children $1.00; recieved of Moroni Co-op one
Minute Book. Officers of Association are, Mrs.
Deborah P. Irons, President; Mrs. Sarah Jolley
and Mrs. A. M. Nielson, Counselors; Jane Faux,
Secretary; Lizzie Bailey, Assistant Secretary;
Mary Yorgason, Treasurer. They are doing all in
their power to instruct the young. Our Associa-
tion is doing well,
					JANE FAUX, Sec'y,	[--]


SHUN AFFECTATION.

	There is nothing more beautiful in a young
man than simplicity of character. It is honest
frank and attractive. How different is affecta-
tion! The simple minded are always natural, they
are at the same time original; the affected are
never natural. And as for originality, if they
ever had any, they crush it out or have buried
it from sight, utterly. Be yourself young
friend.
	To attempt to be any body else is worse than
folly. It is an impossibility to attain it. Bu[-]
suppose you should succeed in imitating the
greatest man that ever figured in history, would
that make you any greater? By no means. Let
the fabric of your character though ever so hum-
ble be at least real.
	Avoid affecting the character of another, how-
ever great though you may emulate their virtues.
Build up your own. Be what God intended you
to be—your-self, and not sombody else. Shun
affectation.
							Ada Rollins.
		Snow Flake, Apache Co. Arizona.
	June 2d, 1880.


CORRESPONDENCE.

				Lone Pine, Arizona May 21th,
	Editor Exponent: Having just read the Ex-
PONENT of May 1st. while perusing its contents
I imagined myself attending one of those delight-
ful meetings reported in your very interesting
and valuable paper, which is a welcome visiter
here circulated from house to house: the one
subject, storing of grain, is proof sufficient of
the energy that characterizes the Women of the
Latter-day Saints; furnishing grain to feed the
poor, typical of Joseph's sojourn into Egypt.
Some of the brethren in this land are loaning
what grain they can spare to those who have
need and waiting until harvest for returns. I
do not know what some would have done if Bro-
ther Flake had sold his grain which he could
have done very readily; for there is no Joseph in
Egypt with corn for the Saints here, but I
suppose wheat and barley was called corn in
Egypt in those days as history informs us that
corn was found first in America.
	Notwithstanding the severity of the past
Winter and the cold, late Spring the Saints here
are filled with faith and good works, and very
few longing for the leeks and onions of Egypt.
The sisters express their desire to be organized,
and feel thankful that they have their little ones
away from that dreadful malady the diphtheria.
	The health of the people here is most excllent
they are glad to get plenty of corn and barley
for bread, as the wheat will not be harvested
until the latter part of July or first of August. I
have taken the interest to canvass among the
sisters in behalf of the EXPONENT, they have
invariably expressed a desire to send subscriptions
as soon as circumstances would permit.
	Some of the brethren here were a little sur-
prised at the bill before the Legilature last ses-
sion to remove the political disabilities of women;
to this we replied "if any are in bondage or have
not the rights that God designs they shall have,
He rules in the heavens above and the earth
beneath none can stay his hand. He is the
same God that heard the cries of the fair Daugh-
ters of Zion in the days of the Nephites upon
this continent. He has set his hand to bring
about the restitution of all things whatever He
does will be right." With the ballot in the
hands of the Women of this Territory (Arizona)
it would strengthen the hands of the brethren
by placing men in office that would greatly add
to the peace and safety of citizens as well as the
development of the resources of the Country.
	Eevr praying for the interest of Zion, I am
		Yours truly.					W. E.


SUNDAY morning June 20, several sisters were
invited to the 17th Ward, to assist the Bishop in
reorganizing the Primary Association. Bishop
Smith, Superintendent Dwyer and other breth-
ren and also sisters of the ward were present.
The Sunday School was admirably conducted
and the singing was very inspiring. Only a por-
tion of the exercises were given and "Sister
Eliza" proceeded with the organization. 140
members were enrolled. The ladies who had
been invited were presented with lovely bouquets
of choice flowers.


20		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 1, 1880.


SALT LAKE STAKE CONFERENCE.

	The regular Semi-Annual Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake of Zion will be held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall, on Saturday and Sunday,
July 3d and 4th, 1880, at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. of
each day.
	There will be a meeting of the presiding offi-
cers and others interested in Relief Societies,
Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mutual Im-
provement Associations, Sunday Schools and
Primary Associations, in the Assembly Hall, on
Saturday evening, July 3d, at 7 o'clock, and a
general meeting of the Priesthood of the Stake,
on Sunday evening, July 4th, at the same place,
at 7 o'clock.
				ANGUS M. CANNON,
				DAVID O. CALDER,
				JOSEPH E. TAYLOR,
					Presidency of the Stake.


[Column 1]
JUBILEE CELEBRATION.

	A Jubilee Celebration is under contempla-
tion for the Twenty-fourth of this month. This
day is certainly a remarkable one in the history
of this Church. The day this people should be
anxious to celebrate, for it is the beginning of a
new era in their history. The day when the
weary feet of the brave and valiant pioneers
rested for a brief space in the heart of a great
desert; a land which Jehovah seemed to have
pointed out and specially designed for his coven-
ant people; a place which other white men had
shunned and looked upon as barren and unde-
sirable, and therefore it was not expected that a
people, who had been driven from the borders of
civilization, would be molested here, but find a
peaceful and safe retreat from the persecution
and oppression of their enemies. Many prophe-
cies have had their fulfillment in this peculiar
advent of the people. Isaiah said: "O, Zion,
that bringest good tidings, get thee up into the
high mountains!" "Thy watchmen shall lift
up their voice." Did not Brigham Young,
Heber C. Kimball, Willard Richards, and their
associates lift up their voices, and sing together,
when they arrived in the valley of the Rocky
Mountains? And were they not watchmen?
Had they not fully earned the title in a literal
sense, by watching, guiding and protecting the
people who had been driven, "scattered and peel-
ed?" Latter-day Zion, the prophets of old said,
was to be a place "sought out." These noble,
blessed pioneers sought it out, they did the first
practical work of the Latter-day Zion. They
traveled, foot-sore and weary, the great
unbroken deserts, the sand hills, the rocky
mountain passes, where the foot of the white
man for ages had not trod; the "Land of Pro-
mise," a refuge for the Saints in time of need.
President Young in his diary, July 24, 1847, says:

[Column 2]
"This is one of the most important days of my
life, and in the history of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints. After traveling six
miles through a deep ravine ending with the
canon, we came in full view of the valley of the
Great Salt Lake; the land of promise held in
reserve by God, as a resting place for his Saints.
We gazed in wonder and admiration upon the
vast valley before us, with the waters of the
Great Salt Lake glistening in the sun, mountains
towering to the skies, and streams of pure water
running through the beautiful valley. It was the
grandest view that we had seen till this moment.
Pleasant thoughts ran through our minds at the
prospect that, not many years hence, the house
of God would be established in the mountains
and exalted above the hills, while the valleys
would be converted into orchards, vineyards and
fruitful fields, cities erected to the name of the
Lord, and the standard of Zion unfurled for the
gathering of the nations."
	How truly these things have been verified,
this country from north to south and from east
to west, speaks for itself in a language more
telling and forcible than mere empty words.
"The desert" does "blossom as the rose," and
"the solitary places are made glad," and the
Saints have rejoiced and loud hallelujahs have
oft arisen to the Father for his many mercies
and blessings; and it is meet to celebrate this
day; to the Saints it is "a day of days."
	Many, very many, of the men, and women,
too, who were the patient, energetic and earnest
workers in the early pioneer days of Utah, are
numbered with the cold and silent dead. Of the
one hundred and forty-three pioneers of '47, who
made the first roads and built the first bridges,
not nearly one-half remain. Of the three women
who came with them, only one is living—Mrs.
Clara Decker Young. Mrs. Harriet P. Young
and Mrs. Ellen Saunders Kimball have both
passed behind the vail. A few years more, and
all these veterans who converted the barren
wastes into a pleasant and fruitful garden, will
be no more known among the living. But their
works can never die; for Zion and her towers and
her strongholds will be imperishable. Their
names are so closely interwoven with the his-
tory of the Church that they will live in its
records, and be preserved in the archives of the
House of the Lord. The people should spare
no pains to make the Twenty-fourth of July,
a Jubilee in very deed, and one long to be re-
membered.


[Column 1]
	HOME AFFAIRS.

	A PARTY of young people are getting up a
Concert, for the evening of July 8, to be held in
the Social Hall, for the benefit of Miss Mattie
Paul Hughes. The entertainment will consist
of songs and a drama, in three parts, represent-
ed by Miss Keetie Heywood, O. F. Whitney and
Hebe M. Wells. With these young people it will
certaiuly be a success.
	ERRATA.—Dear Em: In reading my “Rem-
iniscences” in your last issue, I see that the quo-
tation marks being omitted makes it read as if
nearly all had been copied from my father’s his-
tory, which part ended with the description of the
cow being killed while a girl was milking her
etc. Please mention the above and oblige,
	Yours truly,	H. M. W.
	THE Home Dramatic Club will appear on the
evening of the 5th of July, in “Extremes, or
Men of the Day,” and in the afternoon in
“Ours.” This company of young people have
talent and ability, and it is to be hoped they will
receive sufficient encouragement, so that we
may have once more in the history of Utah, a

[Column 2]
good strong stock company. Go and see the
plays.
	THE excursion for the “Old Folks” to Black
Rock and return, for the 7th of July, is in the
hands of the same energetic and persevering
Committee who made it such a pleasant success
heretofore, and no doubt the arrangements for
this time will be as perfect and as desirable as in
former years. The “Old Folks’ Excursion” in-
volves more benevolent work for the Relief So-
cieties, who are expected to attend to the picnic
details.
	We tender our sincere congratulations to Miss
Mattie Paul Hughes who has recently passed
her examination and will graduate in the Med-
ical Class of ’80 at the 30th, Annual Commence-
ment of the Department of Medicine and Surg-
ery of the University of Michigan; to be held in
University Hall at 10 o’clock A. M. Thursday
July 1st. 1880. We acknowledge a complimen-
tary invitation and would gladly be present if
circumstances would permit.
	Miss Mattie was a favorite of ours and earned
her first money towards defraying the expense
of her medical education by setting type for the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT. She is an interesting in-
telligent and brave young woman. Miss Paul
Hughes will graduate on the 23d, anniversary of
her birthday. She intends to further perfect her
study of medicine and surgery practically in
Hospital in Boston, Mass.
	There are many young women, yes even
young men who might follow her noble example,
with honor to themselves and credit to the com-
munity.	
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt delivered a lecture on
the physiology and anatomy of the human sys-
tem in the Theater on Tuesday afternoon June
22d, for the benefit of Miss Mattie Paul Hughes,
better known as Mattie H. Paul, who is now
studying medecine and surgery at the University
of Ann Arbor, Michigan. The object was a
laudable one, and the lecture in every respect,as
far as the subject, the manner and the facilities
for illustration were concerned, was a perfect
success. Financially it was not so much so—the
fault was perhaps in its not having been suffici-
ently advertised. The sisters should avail them-
selves of the opportunities so often afforded for
instrcution in these subjects and become better
acquainted with the human structure, its needs
and powers.
	WE have received of late two beautiful trib-
utes of affection.	
	One is from a lady we have never met. A cross
of sea-weed,delicate ferns and sea-shells bordered
with a vine of the same materials. We shall
have it framed for the office. It came all the
way from San Bernardino, and is really a very
lovely thing and displays artistic taste in arrang-
ing as well as refinement in the expression of
affection and as we are passionately fond of
things of this sort it could not have found a
more welcome nook to repose in, than in a corner
of this office, where we can admire its beauty
and shall think of the giver with feelings of
sincere admiration and tenderness. Some ver-
ses came with the cross from which we may-
select a few lines.	
	The other tribute alluded to was some lovely
wild-wood flowers “sweet wild-wood flowers,”
from a sheltered dell,where they grew in beauty
in East Caynon; there are more than forty
varieties. Of all the beautiful things in the
world there is nothing fairer or more equisitely
beautiful than the flowers, fresh from nature’s
hand. How they speak to the heart, how they,
refresh the soul, what restfulness they bring to
the weary, and what happy thoughts they in-
spire.


These wild-wood flowers were also accompan-
ed with  some lines which we publish on page
3d, they are as sweet and  as delicate as the ten-
der flowers of which they speak.  Words are 
poor, very poor to thank these kind friends and 
others who have brought their floral offerings to 
give us pleasure.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	BOOK NOTES.

	“PROSE AND POETRY”—a neat little book just
from the press is by Mrs. Emily B. Spencer of
St. George. It contains a variety of truths and
sentiments tenderly told in the simple unaffected
spirit of a true woman and a saint. Many of
them were written under trying cirdumstances,
which others similarly situated will fully appreci-
ate. Some are addressed to individuals and are
of a character peculiar to the circumstances and
time. Among the best of the poems are “The
True Christmas,” “Song of the Creator,”“Come”
“Who Comes,” “Evening.” There are a few
good prose articles interspersed. The book is
suitable for the young people’s library collections
and will no doubt carry comfort and hope to
many a lonely heart. It is for sale at this office
and contains 88 pages price, 50 cts.
	THE Primary Hymn Book is now in the hands
of the publishers at the Deseret News Office,and
is partly completed. The first 70 pages are already
sterotyped—and the work is progressing as fast
as possible. The Book will contain 128 pages and
will be neatly and strongly bound, in cloth with
a leather back; to make it suffiiently strong for
the children to handle without injury.
	This book has been edited and compiled by
Eliza R. Snow Smith, President of the Latter-
day Saint Women’s Organizations, with great
care and patience as well as an earnest love for
all and any work in the interest of the children
of Zion, whom she considers her special charge.
The first 70 pages are a choice selection of hymns,
from the pen of Sister Eliza herself and other
home writers. A part of them have been se-
lected by the lady editor from writers of distinc-
tion such as Watts, Heber. Dwight and others.
The book will probably be finished about the 10th,
of this month. Every child in the Territory
should have a copy. It will be suitable for the
use of Sunday Schools as well as Primary Asso-
ciations. It is expected it can be afforded as low
as eight copies for one dollar thus placing it
within the reach of every one.
	“Spring Blossoms.”—We are pleased to see
this new book added to the catalogue of home
literary productions. The authors of “Spring
Blossoms” Leo Haefeli, a German Professor,and
Mr. E. H. Anderson,are both connected with the
office of the Junction, Ogden. This interesting
little work contains 46 pages in prose and verse.
The prose articles entitled “The Good, the True
and the Beautiful,” or the three ideals of educa-
tion are really good, true and beautiful, just as
expressed in the title, and are interspersed
with choice selections from eminent authors.
The young people should read these and seek to
profit by the admirable lessons contained in
them. “Family Joys and Griefs,” by the same
author,speak to the heart.
	The poems which are by E. H. Anderson
“Eternity,” “Love” and “Home,” contain
good sentiment and bespeak poetical talent.
There are also Historical essays by the same
author very well-written. The book is suitable
for the libraries of the Young Peoples’ Associa-
tions, or the homes of the Saints.
	If we were permitted to suggest we would say it
was in bad taste to advertise in a book of poems.
	We have before us Two Poems pamphlet
form. They are from the pen of Bishop O. F.
Whitney. The first is entitled “The Women of
the Everlasting Covenant,” and is a delicate and

[Column 2]
affectionate tribute to woman, and more especi-
ally to the women of this Church who have en-
dured much for their religion.  The poem is rich
with pathos and glows with tender sympathy.
It is somewhat historical in character, and ex-
ceedingly pure in tone. The style of verse and
rhythm is pleasant and every line is expressive.
	It is dedicated to his mother and to all mothers
in Isreal whose lives show equal virtue and
integrity.
	The poem contains many exquisitely beautiful
passages, of which we will only quote one,

	"Of all the virtues that uniting frame,
	The lofty column ranted to Duty’s name—
	Whose summit pencils on the glowing sky
	The deeds of those whose names refuse to die— 
	O’er crowning all in triumph of device,
	Is woman's life of love—Self-Sacrifice.” 

	“The Land of Shinehah” is a descriptive and
hsitorical poem. It contrasts Kirtland of
the present time with what it was
more than forty years ago. It is perhaps richer
in word painting and delineation than the other
and contains more variety but does not speak as
forcibly to the heart. It will be very interesting
to all, who cherish a tender memory of the first
gathe.ing place of the Saints.
	We are well-assured of one fact in connection
with both these poems they are sure to live.
The writer has talent which should be encour-
aged; and we hope he may be inspired to write
much more of a historic character.


OBITUARY.

	June 19th, 1880, of heart disease, Hans Peter
Lund, age 58 years, 11 months and 3 days.
	Deceased was born at Nexo, Bornholm, Den-
mark, He was baptized September 17th, 1853,
and ordained an Elder April 8, 1854, he labored
as a missionary in North Sjelland until Nov. 18,
'56, being released to preside over the Norwegian
mission, which office he filled to the satisfaction
of all concerned until January, 1858, when he
was released to come to Zion. After his arrival
he was ordained a Seventy in the 23d quornm in
the winter of 1858, and at the April Conference
of 1860 he was called to fill a mission in Scan-
dinavia, which he honored, laboring in said mis-
sion for three years.
	He was an exemplary man in every respect
and was truly loved by all his acquaintances;
as a Saint he was wholly devoted to the cause,
ever ready to answer every call. His all was
truly on the altar;he was not rich in this world's
goods, but he had laid up treasures in heaven
which he will receive with increased interest.
His funeral was largely attended and thoso who
spoke of his labors in his native home and of his
career while here, had only words of praise for
the departed.—Com.

	Died, at her residence in Manti, Sanpete
County, Utah Territory, June 15th, 1880, Ellen
Spencer,daughter of Thomas and Margaret Wil-
son, beloved wife of James C. Cahoon; born
in Liverpool, England, October 29, 1847; baptized
when eight years old. Lived and died a faithful
Latter-day Saints. She leaves a husband, five
children and many kind friends!—COM.


[Column 1]
SALT LAKE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY
CONFERENCE.

	The Sisters' Conference of the Salt Lake
Stake of Zion was held in the Salt Lake Assem-
bly Hall, Friday and Saturday, June 18 and 19.
The first day was devoted to Relief Society re-
ports, business, etc. Mrs. M. Isabella Horne
presiding. Sung, "O, Awake My Slumbering
Minstrels." Prayer by Mrs. E. S. Taylor.
Singing, "Come, O, thou King of Kings."
Minutes of last Conference read by the Stake
Secretary, Mrs. E. Howard. Reports from the

[Column 2]
several branches in the county were read, which
were very favorable. Pres. Horne made a few
remarks relative to the necessity of having correct
reports, and said she wanted the sisters to become
business women.
	Pres. E. R. Snow Smith referred to the good
conference in Brigham City, where the young
ladies had spoken upon practical principles and
were putting them into practice. Said the city
council there had donated liberally of land for
the purpose of raising mulberry trees to promote
sericulture. Spoke of the calamities and
judgments that were coming upon the earth and
that Zion would be the place of safety.
	Meeting closed by singing, "O, Say what is
Truth." Benediction by Mrs. S. M. Kimball.
2 p. m.: Meeting opened with singing and
prayer by Mrs. E. Howard. After which seve-
ral of the presidents of Relief Societies gave
verbal reports. Mrs. E. B. Wells made a few re-
marks preceding the reading of an original poem
by Bishop O. F. Whitney, "The Women of the
Everlasting Covenant." She then introduced Dr.
Ellen B. Ferguson, who read this grand poem in
a smooth, eloquent and effective manner. Pres.
Horne then spoke of a committee of two or three
sisters being formed in each Relief Society to
look after new comers. Joseph Smith had said
the mission of the Relief Society was not only
to look after the temporal wants of the poor, but
to save souls.
	"Sister Eliza" explained this subject clearly
and definitely and stated that there was a posi-
tive necessity for such committee and gave good
instruction on the subject. She then asked the
sisters to take shares in the Silk Association and
to interest themselves in this simple and useful
industry, which was now established upon a firm
basis.
	Bishop Johnson, of Provo, heartily endorsed
what had been spoken and blessed the sisters in
their labors; said he had realized the great help
the Relief Society was to the Bishops in many
respects. Sang "Lord dismiss us with thy bless-
ing." Prayer by Bishop Johnson.
	Saturday morning, June 19th. The middle
seats of the Tabernacle were filled with the
children of the Primary Associations of the city.
President E. R. Snow Smith presiding. Chil-
dren sang: "Sweet is the work, my God. my
King." Mrs. Zina D. Young offered prayer. Chil-
dren sang: "We thank thee, O God, for a pro-
phet." The first business transacted was to ap-
point a central committee to preside over the
Primary Associations of the Salt Lake Stake of
Zion. Mrs. Ellen C. S. Clawson was nominated
and sustained as President, Mrs. Camilla Cobb.
and Miss Annie Davis as her Counselors. "Sis-
ter Eliza,' then nominated Mrs. Louie Felt as
General Superintendent, to preside over all the
Primary Associations of all the Stakes of Zion,
which was unanimously carried. Mrs. Matilda
M. Barratt and Mrs. Clara M. Cannon were sus-
tained as her Counselors. "Sister Eliza" ad-
dressed the children for a few minutes and ask-
ed them some questions, which were promptly
answered. Mrs. Zina D. Young made a short
speech upon obedience, reverence, honesty, truth-
fulness, etc., adapting her language to the chil-
dren's comprehension. The children sang by
request, "O my Father." "Sister Eliza" an-
nounced that President Taylor and President
Angus M. Cannon were present, and asked the
children who they would like to speak to them;
they answered, President John Taylor.
	President Taylor said, "I am pleased to have an
opportunity of meeting with the children. The
ladies of the Relief Societies are doing a good
work in teaching the children correct principles,
and instructing them that they may grow up
to be honorable numbers in the Church of Jesus
Christ, and to be honors to the kingdom. I ap-
preciate the efforts of the ladies who are trying
to bring the children up in the fear of the Lord;
and the Presidents of these Primary Associa-
tions. Children you ought to be obedient to
your parents and pray morning and night for
them and for your presidents, that they may be
under the inspiration of the Lord, and God will
bless you and give you blessings upon blessings,
and he will build up Zion, and these sisters are
trying to instruct you in purity and in the laws
of God, that your names may be honored in and
through eternity; be careful to honor your fathers
and mothers. This is one of the ten command-
ments. We purpose having them written here
in this tabernacle, sometime—"Honor thy father
and thy mother, etc." Now I want to say a
word to the Relief Society. You had your meet-
ing yesterday, but as a number of you are here,
I will say a few words to you. I consider it a
duty for all to do all they possibly can to aid


in this work which has been begun in
this day. We are peculiarly associated;
teaching the juveniles. the young men,
and the young women, and the sisters to look
after the wants of the poor, the sick, and also
to look after the happiness of those they are as-
sociated with; it is a great thing to be able to
do good, and I have brought along a book here,
it is called "The Law of the Lord," and I will
have Bro. Nuttall read a little from this book.
Joseph Smith organized the Relief society in
Nauvoo.
	Brother L. John Nuttall then read from the
"Law of the Lord" concerning the orgnization
of the Relief Society, in the Lodge-Room, Nau-
voo, March 17, 1842, when Mrs. Emma Smith
was appointed President, Elizabeth Ann Whit-
ney and Sarah M. Cleveland, her Counselors.
	After Brother N. had finished reading Pres.
Taylor made explanatory remarks concerning the
organization and the powers and duties it gave
to woman. He stated that Emma Smith had
been previously ordained to expound the Scrip-
tures, probably by the Prophet Joseph himself,
but he did not know, however he
(President Taylor) said he was present at that
time and was called upon by Joseph to ordain
Sisters Whitney and Cleveland, Emma's coun-
selors. Prest. Taylor gave much more instruc-
tion to the sisters, and closed his remarks by
saying, God bless the children and God bless the
sisters with Sister Snow at their head. Mrs. M.
I. Horne moved, and Mrs. S. M. Kimball second-
ed the motion that President Taylor publicly
appoint "Sister Eliza" as president of all the
Relief Societies. Prest. Taylor stated that Sister
Eliza had been secretary of the first organization
of Relief Society in Nauvoo. Prest. Taylor then
nominated her and she was sustained as presi-
dent. Sister Eliza then chose Sisters Zina D.
Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney as her coun-
selors, who were then nominated by President
Taylor and sustained by the conference; also
Sarah M. Kimball as secretary and M. Isabella
Horne as treasurer. These sisters form a cen-
tral organization for all the Relief Societies of all
the Stakes of Zion. The children's conference
was then adjourned for three months. Sung
"Lord dismiss us with thy blessing." Benedic-
tion by Prest. Angus M. Cannon.
	Saturday afternoon, June 19. The conference
of the Y. L. M. I. Associations of the Salt Lake
Stake convened. Mrs. M. A. Freeze presiding,
the remainder of the minutes of this interesting
conference will be given in the July 15 number,
as we have not space. However, we must no-
tice the appointment of a Territorial Central
Committee for the Y. L. M. I. A. On nomina-
tion of Mrs. Eliza R. Snow Smith, Mrs. E. S.
Tayior was sustained as president of a central
committee, and Mrs. Maggie Y. Taylor and Miss
Mattie J. Horne as her counselors; Miss Louie
Wells, secretary, and Mrs. Fannie Y. Thatcher,
treasurer. We regret exceedingly not being able
to publish full-particulars of this important con-
ference.							E. B. W.


22		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.

	The Relief Society of Fish Haven gave one of
our faithful Sisters a surprise. Sister Hulda
Teeples who is one of the eldest members in this
Church, and she is one that has passed through
many troubles, trials, and tribulations.
	We assembled ourselves together at the house
of Brother John Stock and proceeded from there
to the house of her daughter Henrietta Stock
where she has been visiting for some months,but
intends returning home to Holden, Millard Co.,
where a number of her children are at present
residing.
	This was her 68th, birthday.
	After shaking hands and wishing her many
good wishes we were ushered into her daughter's
front room where we were all comfortably seated
the sisters all feeling so well there were many
things talked about. After we had been seated
for a time cake and currant wine were passed
around, it was wine of our own make from ber-
ries of our own raising and it was as delicious as
any that can be made in any place from the
grapes. After this there was a Memorial read
by President of Relief Society Sarah Pope and
presented to her by the Society, for a keepsake,
then there were many presents made by differ-
ent sisters, after which Sister Teeples said she
was very thankful for the kindness that the
sisters showed her and that she was always
pleased to meet with the sisters of Fish Haven
and she felt well when she was with them and
that this was a day that would long be remem-

[Column 2]
bered by her; she also spoke upon many things
concerning the travels of this Church and she
hoped the Saints would never have to pass
through what they had before. She asked God
to bless the sisters with his Spirit that they
might prove faithful to the end. President
Pope arose and said that she was pleased to see
nearly all of the married sisters present on this
occassion it showed due respect to our aged Sister
she said that Sister Teeples had passed through
many trials that we knew nothing about, and if
we lived faithful and true to our God, although
we might never meet with her again in this pro-
bation, yet we should be sure to meet her again
if we were faithful for she had proven herself
faithful &c.
	Sister Sarah MacCann said that her experi-
ence in this Church had been very much like
Sister Teeples,and she had passed through many
trials for the sake of the Gospel, she told Sister
Teeples that as her day was, so her strength
should be &c.
	Counselor Frances Stock said she felt sorry
that Sister Teeples was soon going to leave us
and as this was her birthday she had felt as
though she would like to have a little surprise
together that we might remember the days that
we spent together and hoped we might prove
ourselves faithful to the end.
	Counselor Frances Howell said she hoped Sis-
ter Teeples would see many more happy birth-
days. The sisters sang the hymn "How Firm a
Foundation ye Saints of the Lord" after which
some other sisters spoke, hoping that Sister Tee-
ples might be blessed in many ways.
	Sang the hymn entitled"Zion Land:

Come, Come ye Saints of God
No longer stay,
Far from these wretched lands,
Haste, Haste away.
Farewell my native land,
From thee I roam;
Zion land, Zion land
Thou art my home.

			A. R. GARDNER. Sec'y.

	The members of the First and Second Ward
Primary Associations of Nephi held their first
anniversary in the meeting house at two o'clock
P. M., Saturday May 29th, 1880. Present on the
stand Patriarch, Jacob G. Bigler, Bishop John
Andrews,and Counselors. William Knight,Sister
Amelia Goldsbrough and Counselors of the R.
S. Stake organization, and also officers of the
Primary Associations of each ward. After the
usual opening exercises Sister Sarah Ann An-
drews President of the First Ward, addressed
the children a short time and gave them a verbal
report of her ward. The report was then read
by the Secretary; Sister Amelia C. Bigler of the
Second Ward made a few remarks and also gave
a verbal report, the Secretary then read the re-
port after which there were songs, recitations,
dialogues, select readings, by the children
of both wards. Members enrolled in the First
Ward 184 average attendance [10. Members en-
rolled in the Second Ward 120, average attend-
ance 55. Financial report of the First Ward
donations received, $7.80 cts. Donated to Manti
Temple $5.00; Expended for books and stationery
$1.25; Remaining in the Treasury $1.55.
	Financial report of the Second Ward. Dona-
tions received $3.90: paid out for books and sta-
tionery $1.90; Remaining in Treasury $2.00.
	Singing by the children "In our lovely Deser-
ret." Benediction by Patriarch Jacob. G.
Bigler, Mrs. Sarah Ann Andrews President of
the First Ward; Mrs. Hannah Grover; Miss Ann
Midgley Counselors; Miss Alice Bigler, Secre-
tary; Miss Isabella M. Ord, Treasurer.
					Miss Lilzie Tolley, Sec'y.

	The Pangnitch Stake Relief Society held their
First Stake Conference on the 3d, of May, 1880,
in the Relief Society Hall; commencing at 10
o'clock, A. M. Present on the stand, Pres. Bar-
bara Myers and Counselors; Apostle Erastus
Snow, Pres. James Henrie and Counselors, Bish-
op J, C. Dame, A. S. Church, Wm. King, Seth
Johnson, and A. P. Schow and other brethren
and sisters, from all the wards of the Stake.
	After the usual opening exercises; Pres. Myers
made some good remarks, exhorted the sisters to
faithfulness in the porformance of all their du-
ties, and also desired that as many as could
would take the WOMEN'S EXPONENT. Coun-
selors Clark and S. P. Crosby, made some re-
marks.

[Column 3]
	Brother Erastus Snow said he wished the sis-
ters to feel free, and speak as if they were at
home, around their own firesides and be cal[--]
and let the Spirit of the Lord be with them to
dictate them in all they said.
	The various societies of the Stake were verbally
reported showing, the societies in good condition
yet room for great improvement.
	Statistical and Financial report up to date
May 31st., was read as far as reported.
			Very respectfully,
				Barbara Myers, President.
				Sarah P. Crosby Sec'y.

	The Paradise Relief Society held their annual
meeting on Tuesday, June 1, 1880, in the new
meeting house. Present on the stand: Bishop
Orson Smith; H. C. Jackson, H. A. Shaw, coun-
selors. After the usual opening exercises the
report of the year was read and accepted. H.
C. Jackson spoke for a short time. His remarks
were calculated to encourage us to be dilligent
and persevere in the good work in which we de-
light. H. A. Shaw made very interesting re-
marks, encouraged the sisters to be true and
faithful one to another, and urged the necessity
of educating our children and to be careful and
diligent in guiding our sons and daughters into
the best paths of life, for upon them must
eventually rest all the responsibilities of an im-
portant era. Bishop Smith said he was pleased
in hearing the reports read, and spoke of the
great amount of good the sisters could and did
accomplish in these Relief Societies; urged us to
live up to our privileges and to do our duty with
cheerfulness, and be punctual in attending our
meetings and alive to our duties, and realize
that we should be co-workers with the brethren
in all the noble enterprises entered into to sus-
tain and build up Zion. Sisters E. Shaw and
Mary Price bore testimony to the truth of the
work. The Spirit of the Lord was in our midst.
We had an excellent time; many more of the
sisters were desirous to speak, but time would
not permit. Traying God to bless all those who
labor for the welfare of Zion,
		I remain your sister in the Gospel,
							EMMA SHAW.
	THE Quarterly Conference of Relief Societies
of Weber County was held in the Ogden Tab-
ernacle, Thursday, June 17th, Mrs. Jane S.
Richards presiding. On the stand were Apostle
C. C. Rich, the presidency of the Weber Stake
of Zion; visitors,Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith and
E. B. Wells, from Salt Lake City, and President
Sarah S. Richards, of Summit Stake. After the
opening exercises and reading of minutes,
President D. H. Peery took occasion to express
his fullest satisfaction with the report, which he
declared to be the best ever presented in this
stake. He also spoke very highly of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, counselling all the sisters to support
this good family journal.
	Apostle C. C. Rich then took the stand. He
spoke upon the subject of doing good, and said
we never got all the good done that might be
done. We all should feel honored and blessed
by the opportunity afforded to us of helping to
build up the Kingdom of God. We could do a
great deal of good by governing with wisdom all
our acts and words. We should earnestly study
how to bring about the millennium. When no
one did wrong, no wrong would be done. He
himself was always improving, at least he hoped
and tried to do so. It was the same with the
sisters. Upon them was resting the responsibility
of raising up the children of Zion and teaching
them the principles of the gospel. He was much
pleased with the good work accomplished by the
sisters: The more opposition we had, the more
eager and vigilant we ought to be in withstand-
ing the outward pressure, both spiritually and
and temporally.
	Sister E. R. Snow next addressed the meet-
ing. She said that if the sisters would lift their
hearts in prayer to God she had no fear of say-
ing anything that would be hurtful. We were
too apt to get drowsy and should always be
awake to the fulness of our holy duties. She
then took up the parable of the woman and the
unjust judge, spoken of by Christ. After this
she pointed out the necessity of administering to
the sick in the way pointed out by revelation,
until they were restored to health and well-
being.	*	*	The mothers of Israel should
realize this important fact. Something greatly
needed was a hymn book for the young,and she
was occupied in getting up one for this purpose.
The books would be sold at 12½ cents per copy,
as she did [--] her own work free in the interest
of the kin[--]om. Thus the books could be sold
at cost. We should have prophets and prophet-
esses among the young. The fear of infidelity was


the greatest danger of contagion existing. Sister.
Snow had also seen the young sisters at Bear
Lake, and had been highly pleased by their in-
nocent and primitive dress, which was far supe-
rior to the expensive fashionable follies of the
Gentile world. We should be prepared for the
troubles coming, and get the fulness of the spirit
by attending the meetings where the inspired
servants of the Almighty poured out the words
of life.
	In the afternoon the meeting was very numer-
ously attended, and the first speaker was Mrs.
E. B. Wells, who spoke principally upon the
education and culture of the young, the necessi-
ty of spiritual training, etc. Prest. E. R. Snow
then spoke at some length upon the need of
sustaining home industries and primary associa-
tions, urged the parents to encourage these insti-
tutions by their presence and influence, etc.
Counselor Middleton, Elders D. M. Stuart,
Robt. McQuarrie, and S. Eggleston, Sisters Sarah
S. Richards and Jane S. Richards each made a
few brief but excellent remarks. At the close
of the meeting the congregation arose to their
feet and sang, "The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning," which produced an inspiring effect.
After benediction, conference adjourned until
the following day, when the Y. L. M. I. Associ-
ations and Primary Associations were repre-
sented.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		23


[Column 1]
ORPHANAGE-NAZARETH.

	Yakoob (the man) takes the garden and out
door work. Autusi (the woman) reigns in the
kitchen and superintends the cooking. All the
rest of the work (which in this country includes
such things as picking and sifting corn for the
mill as well as cooking, washing, scrubbing etc,)
is done by the girls. The elder ones keep the
wardrobes &c., In repair and look after the tinies
some of whom are dear little pets. I shall often
have to speak of the two native teachers so I
hope you will remember their names Nasara and
Saada. The present manager of all is Miss Tan-
ner for Mrs Gilbert can only be a show figure
from her ignorance of Arabic, and of the strange
customs of the country; and I of course am not
yet on the staff. Miss Tanner seems to have a
perfect knowledge and command of Arabic and
carries out most ably and energetically the ad-
mirable system initiated by Miss Dickson. All
the girls are devoted to her, but are also very
kind and attentive to us and are only too proud
to be allowed to render us any service.
	It is amusing to see the troop of brownies that
rush shouting out of the large gates to meet us,
when we return from a walk or a ride; the
latter especially,as then we often take some of the
tinies up before us to give them a ride up to the
gate. You will notice our flag in the little sketch
I have made: this is hoisted always on Sunday,
and there is a large one that is put up on special
occasions, as the feasts, and the Queen's birth-
day.
	This last is celebrated with great honor, for we
are a very loyal set here, and the girls always
speak of her Majesty as "my gracious Queen"
fondly believing that they thus become real
English." Nasara, the head teacher, a very
handsome but most simple-hearted girl, said to
me; "I cannot think that any of the English are
bad, when I see them in my mind, they are
always singing in their Cathedral and I think it
is heaven."
	I must not forget to mention our dogs, very
important members of the Institute. Lao and
Majon, they have a reputation for fierceness and
inspire the beggar and roughs from the town
with a wholesome terror,for which there is really
small occasion, Majon is getting old, so last week
a new puppy was brought which I appropriated
as my property, where upon he received the
name of the Rajah; but Yakoob will not let me
pet him as he is to be reputed fierce like the
others.

MY FIRST MISSIONARY JOURNEY.

	Having mentioned in some of my letters what
led me to think it would be well for me to take
the opportuniny of accompanying Mr. Huber to
Shefamar, I need not go over that ground now.
Miss Tanner had also business to do in Haifa so
our plan was for us three with our man Yakoob
to start early on Monday, December 2d, to
spend about two hours in Shefamar, then go on
to Haifa, when the Austrian steamer with the
mails would be just due. For once we hoped to
get a chance of answering some of our letters by
[-]eturn of post, and then we purposed returning

[Column 2]
with everybody else's letters on Tuesday. As
usual in laying such plans I asked "if thy pres-
ence go not with us, carry us not hence." And
in spite of all that followed I must still believe
that his presence was with us. When I told
my Arabic master of the plan he immediately
said he should like to accompany us, adding,
"You know I cannot take a 'shemilhowar'
(smell the air) except when you do, as I cannot
have a holiday." This master of mine, Nasif
Bouteji,is—alas! now I must say was,the second
son of the native C.M.S. Clergyman, Seraphim
Boutaji and a particularly fine intelligent youth
of 18. He was so kind and loveable that not
only the natives, but all the Europeans in the
place were much attached to him. He had the
manners of an English gentleman and this is
saying a very great deal, you could not under-
stand how much unless you knew the ordinary
manners of Arabs to women and ladies. As
Miss Dickson and Miss Tanner are almost the
only English ladies whom the young men of
this place have seen, one must give them very
much of the credit of any culture and refine-
ment that is observed. Of course I said we
should be glad of his company and
when Mr. Huber found that Nasif
was going he said there was no need of Yakoob.
We had a most delightful journey to Shefamar
and then skirting the Mediterranean over the
sand hills and among the palm trees, and such a
description I had stored up in my mind for you
all of the loveliness I saw, but the tragic and
terrible event I have to relate seems to have
placed all the occurrences of those two sunny days
in the far off past. Poor Nasif was in the highest
spirits, and he had dressed himself particularly
well, as he intended to have his photo. taken in
Haifa; this I am sorry to say he did not accom-
plish, as the photagraphers had left. That
evening and next morning we had a great deal
to do and many people to see. Nasif was every-
where with us, carrying our parcels and making
himself most useful. We were rather late in
leaving the town at last, and Mr. Huber's man
Lalele, who was staying behind to await Mr.
Bellamy's arrival from Beyrout by the return
steamer on Wednesday, said, as he took leave of
us, "I am afraid now you will be late at Nazareth;
from Ab Horiyele mind you none of you speak
one word. This Ab Horiyele is a place of very evil
repute for raids and robberies; and it stands at
the head of a dreadful valley, several miles in
length, of equal evil repute. The reason of La-
lele's injunction was that our voices might not
betray that women were of the party. Nasif of
course was riding with an Arab saddle, a stupid
thing fastened with cords and strings, and sev-
eral times he had to dismount because it kept
slipping round with him; also the strap of his
gun had broken so that instead of having it
slung at his back as usual, he was carrying it
before him. Both Miss Tanner and I had been
very nervous all the way about this gun. I had
heard Miss Tanner ask him if it were load-
ed, and though I did n[-]t hear the reply I
concluded and hoped from the tone of it, that it
was in the negative. However, I took good care
not to ride near the muzzle of it. We had ac-
complished about one-third of the journey, and
were perhaps a mile from Haratiyeh (Harosheth
of the Gentiles), riding altogether, Mr. Huber
in front, Miss Tanner and Nasif side by side,
and I a little behind,when Nasif's saddle twisted
and turned with him again. This time he was
unable to recover himself; in falling his gun ex-
ploded, and we saw him on his face on the
ground. Mr. Huber dismounted in a second and
went to him, calling him by name, but there
was no answer—the poor fellow was dead, the
whole charge of shot having, as we afterwards
learned from the doctor, penetrated his left lung,
below the third rib. Miss Tanner immediately
galloped to Haratiyeh for help while I remained
with Mr. Huber, trying every means of restora-
tion, if possibly there might be still any life in
the poor fellow. When at last Miss Tanner
came back with some men, Christians, that is,
not Moslems, it seemed as if there was nothing
to be done but to leave the body in their charge
and for us to get to Nazareth as quickly as we
could. But now the sun was nearly down, and
we should have all that dangerous valley to go
through in the dark, with only Mr. Huber as
protector to the party. How we got through it
I hardly know. It seemed interminable. I
whispered to Miss Tanner, as we were coming to
Sofsafch, one of the worst spots, "I will trust,
and not be afraid," but I was horribly afraid
when every moment I thought I might see the
flash of a gun from behind each bush or project-
rock we came to, or hear the clatter of horses

[Column 3]
behind us. I thought afterwards that a more
appropriate quotation for me would have been,
"What time I am afraid, I will trust in Thee;"
and through it all, we had the weight upon our
hearts of what we had left behind us and what
was before us. We had one serious fright just
after sun down, but that was owing to my igno-
rance of the customs of the country. Traveling
here after dark, if you see a party coming to-
wards you on the road, you cry out "Shou is
sole?" (Who goes there?), and the others, if
friendly, answer "Sahib" (Friend). There was
a party of natives running towards us, who
shouted to us, but I was riding in front and did
not understand them, and the noise of my
horse's feet prevented Mr. Huber hearing them.
Suddenly one of the men rushed forward and
took up a large stone to throw at
Mr. Huber. Explanations followed, but
as I cound not understand the words
and only saw the gestures, I was kept in sus-
pense as to their intentions till I saw them pre-
paring to move on. We were brought safely
through. I ask all of you to join in special
praises to our Heavenly Father for this great
mercy. I do think he must have given special
strength and understanding to our horses, for I
never saw creatures go as they did up that val-
ley. It is full of those rough stones and boulders,
and even in daylight it is wonderful how the
horses pick their way, but that night they went
on, and on, at a sort of fast shambling walk, and
not one of them, I think, made a false step, and
this at the end of such a journey. We reached
Mr. Huber's at last. Mrs. Huber was in bed
with the low, ague-fever of this country, so Mr.
Huber did not tell her anything. We had just
a cup of tea that was on the table, sent off a man
with everybody's letters and then addressed
ourselves to the terrible ordeal of conveying the
awful news to the poor father and mother.
We asked to speak to Seraphim alone. Of course,
seeing us without his son, his fears were at on[-]e
aroused. When, in a few words, Mr. Huber
had told him the sad story, the poor man seem-
ed utterly crushed, but at least all through he
has received the blow as a Christian; not so his
poor wife, who, though his wife, nominally a
Christian, has all the Arab customs and super-
stitions. She came in with wild eyes and see-
ing something was the matter, rushed at Miss
T. "Wain Nasif?" (where is Nasif) and this
she kept shrieking out all the time, not heed-
ing her husband who tried to calm her while
Mr. Huber gave some details of the story. Then
she tore off her clothes, beat with all her force
on her bare breast and rushed from room to room
pouring out volleys of imprecations on us and on
all the world; all her words of course I did not
understand, but I heard all our names and that
of "All, ali," and could be in no doubt as to how
they were being used. Then she and her daugh-
ter Julia rushed out to the door, and as soon as
the sound of wailing was heard, troops of women
flocked in and joined in the screams. The
wretched mother continued to rush backwards
and forwards, tearing her hair, rubbing her
hands in some dirty water that had been spilt
on the floor, and then all over her face. How my
thoughts flashed back to that company, "weep-
ing and wailing greatly" who had all to be "put
forth" before the Master could speak the word
which gave life to the dead. The poor father
went to the men around the door to tell them
what had happened, and send off a company to
bring home the body of his son. Then he im-
plored the crowds of women congregated in the
rooms to leave them with their grief—but no,
indeed—it is one of the women's rights of this
country to gather wherever sorrow is, like flies
around a festering sore. They squatround the ale
rooms for days and nights together and talk over
all the horrible things they have ever seen or
heard, and fabricate the wildest and vilest lies.
When we found that we could do no possible
good by remaining longer, we left; but not be-
fore the mother in her frenzy had sprung upon
Miss T. (while I was in another room) and
thrown her to the ground.
	At Mr. Huber's we mounted our horses and
slowly and sadly climbed the hill to the orphan-
age, there to have again the whole sad tale to
repeat to Mrs. Gilbert, and yet once more that
night to Esaad Daoud, who had been Nasif's
greatest friend, and who came up to hear the
truth from us. I need not say that we got no
sleep that night, and the next morning we heard
that the funeral was to be at 11. It was an al-
most impossible effort, but we thought we would
pay this mark of respect, and went to it.
	It is the custom here to take the lid off the
coffin before it is lowered into the grave, and
had I known this beforehand, I am not sure


[Column 1]
that I could have gone. It was too dreadful to
see that lifeless form again. I think that, at
that time, the day before he had been full of
life and vigor, with no thought of death or dan-
ger, and I am not sure that we did any good by
going. Then and ever since the wildest tales
have been circulated. "We had left Nasif ever
so far behind, and he was alone when the acci-
dent happened. We had left him alive; we had
left  him in the care of Moslems. We had
changed saddles with him and this had caused
the accident." These are a few of the reports
that have spread like wildfire about the town,
and though we made up our minds at last that
we would not go over the dreadful details any
more, except to satisfy reasonable people, or
Christian people or friends of the family, there
have been too many of these for us to have any
rest from the hopeless task of setting people
right. The one thing everybody harps upon is
our having left the body, and, with the terrible
experience we have now gained of Arab su-
perstition, I think we should none of us do the
same again. Still, what we should have done is
a question. If we had been able to get men
from Haratiyeh to bring it with us, we could
not have been home here till midnight, and
there would have been three houses kept in the 
most terrible anxiety. Moreover, if we had been
ever so familiar with the Arab mode of regard-
ing such things, we should hardly have expect-
ed to have to take this into account when it was
the family of the C. M. S. clergyman that was
concerned. * * * * *
And now I must relate the last iniquity of this
iniquitous government. Some time ago Esaad
Dauod told us to get rid of all our bishliks, they
were to be called in. Last week our man, Ya-
koob, came home from the market and said the 
government had announced that the bishliks,
wuzzeries and rhamsies were no longer current
coin, and that all the shops were shut. If in
England all your copper and silver coins under
five shillings were taken from you, you would be
in about our plight. We had nothing left but gold
majeedies, about seven shillings, to go on with,
and of course no trade could be done. On Sat-
urday the crier announced on the part of the
government, that the Turkish pound or lira (is-
sued at 147 piastres) was now to be 100, the
bishlik  (issued at 6¼)  to be 2½, and the other
coins in the same proportion, i. e. less than half
their former value. The piastre you must know
is a purely imaginary coin. Miss Tanner saw
one once, but in the eight years she has been
here, she has never had one in her possession;
still the value of the coinage is always reckoned
in piastres. Now, do you see the dodge of the 
government? It is nothing to the Sultan and
his advisers that trade should be paralyzed
throughout the Empire; they will take care that
the taxes are paid, and making the poor fella-
heen pay all their taxes at the new rate, is the
same thing as doubling—almost trebling—all
their taxes. We do not know whether this
tyranny is to effect all the Turkish Em-
pire, or Syria and Palestine only. We shall
hear nothing till we get our English papers.
The stray bits of news from Beyrout and Jerusa-
lem are not reliable. If it is only a piece of local
oppression you will not have heard of it: but
surely if it is to affect the whole Empire there
will be something like a revolution, and the
papers will take notice of it. I believe a reform
of the currency was to be one of the reforms so
much talked about, but England never dreamt
of such a method of initiating it. I will show
you how it works on a small scale in the limited
area of our observation. Having a well stored mag-
azine here at the Orphanage,and a good stock of ve-
getables already in the garden, we had not much
fear of suffering from starvation of trade, and
though Yakoob came from the market day after
day, "no meat to be had," that was a very small
matter, for these children (who do not care for
meat or any European dishes) compared with
the distress and even starvation their relatives
and the poor generally were enduring. You see
if they had a little money and were willing in
their extremity to part with it at its lowered
value, the tradesmen would not accept it.  Every-
body suspected a trick and very possibly when a
good part of the taxes have been got in, the gov-
ernment may raise the rate again and re-issue
the bishliks which they took at two and a half,
at their former value, six and a quarter. In Hai-
fa, the people depend almost entirely upon the
steamers for their supplies; last week, from stress
of weather, the steamer could not land her cargo
(only the mails), so there was no flour or wheat
in all the place, except with Mr. Ducks,a German
tradesman, and he would only sell for gold,
French or English. The starving people were

[Column 2]
going in companies through the streets, crying
and wailing, and some we hear are actually dy-
ing. 
	March 18.—We hear now that the lira is to re-
main at its former value—that the bishlik is to
be 3 piastres instead of 6¼,the wuzzeries 5 instead
of 7½, so our loss will be comparatively trifling if
things only stay as they are. But the wicked-
ness of it is that the very poorest are most ef-
fected by it. The bishliks are such dirty dis-
gusting coins that no one who has enough to 
change into gold would keep them by him one
hour longer than he could help; but the poor
living from hand to mouth have never more
than a few bishliks in hand at a time.
	A poor widow, the mother of our teacher
Saada, has been trying for years to recover a
large sum that was owing to her husband when
he died. She thought herself so happy last week
in getting part of this paid, but the canny debtor
had paid her in bishliks, and in a few days the
poor woman saw her little treausre dwindle
down to less than half its value.
	As a minor evil, but quite a sufficient trial of
one's temper, imagine keeping accounts here,
where we are not only subject to such things as
this, but where the currency is different in ev-
ery town. For instance Souidan sent my ac-
count for postage for the quarter. It was nomi-
nally 55 piastres, but reckoned in the government
currency it came to 77, thus making us pay
nearly half as much again for every letter as the
nominal postage. Whether we go to Haifa or
Beyrout, or Jaffa or Jerusalem,etc., etc., there is
a new currency to learn and to lose by.


24		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE on Main Street, over Calder's Music Store.
	RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th
and 10th East Streets.
	☞ Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases
of Children and DISEASES OF THE THROAT, HEART.
AND LUNGS.

WARNER'S
[image of a safe] SAFE
BITTERS
	It is the best Blood Purifier, and stimulates
every function to more healthful action, and is
thus a benefit in all diseases.
	In eliminating the impurities of the blood, the
natural and necessary result is the cure of Scrof-
ulous and other Skin Eruptions and Diseases,
including Cancers, Ulcers and other Sores.
	Dyspepsia, Weakness of the Stomach, Consti-
pation, Dizziness, General Debility, etc., are
cured by the Safe Bitters. It is unequaled
as an appetizer and regular tonic.
	It is a medicine which should be in every fam-
ily, and which, wherever used, will save the
payment of many doctors' bills.
	Bottles of two sizes; prices, 50 cents and $1.00.
SAFE
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE
SAFE
DIABETES CURE
SAFE TONIC
NERVINE
PILLS
READ! Save Thyself
☞ Warner's
Safe Reme-
dies are sold
by Druggists
and Dealers
in Medicine
everywhere.
H. H. WARNER & CO.,
Proprietors,
Rochester, N. Y.
☞ Send for Pamphlet
and Testimonials.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST., OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX' 541.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responped to. ☜
Address, David James. Box 306, Salt Lake City.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building,
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study nas been given to Obstetrics, diseases of
Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR

NEW SPRING STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Larg est Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions
boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
goods. Etc., Etc

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes Country dealers,
please call Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special departments for Gent's Clothing
and Carpets, Ladies and Children's Shoes,
Dry Goods, Shawls and Domestics,
Groceries, Hardware and Stoves.

DRIED FRUITS of all CLASES WANTED,
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARCE STOCK
OF HOME MADE TRUNKS for sale by JOHN C. CUT-
LER Agent of the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building, also Home-Made
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Sh[-]wls,	Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimeres,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Bushes, &c.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.
IF not y[-]u should do so at [-]nce, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and w thont any noise a[-]d confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high. Its self-
se[-]ting and s[-]lf threading hu[-]tle, and absence of springs
and cogs renders i[-]both simple and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, Ill.
O. R. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South St. S. L. C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

