VOL. 9. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1880 No. 12.


[Column 1]
A DAY OF MOTHER-LIFE.

This day has been so full of cares,
	Of accidents and plans astray;
Of dust and sultry, fainting air,
	And even danger and dismay,
I gladly saw the curtain close
	About the gorgeous bed of Day;
And Night approach and bring repose.
	To call me from my toll away.

To-day my busy hands and feet
	Would need be faster though they flew—
Breakfast to set and rooms make neat.
	And washing over-see or do.
Children to dress and husband aid
	In weighty things which may not wait—
This done, one hasty kiss he gave
	And vanished through the arbor gate.

The steep and oft forbidden stairs
	The baby climbs to very top,
And twenty other mischief's dares.
	And mother's work as often stops,
And now he bumps his precious nose
	And must be petted and caressed:
His brother now has hurt his toes
	Which must be gently bathed and dressed.

The yeast thrice spilled, no tread is made,
	The fat is scorching in the pot—
The dinner very late is laid.
	And then baked apples are forgot.
We linger some for pleasant talk—
	But oh! what means that brazen glare!
That volume high of flame and smoke!
	Ah fly! the woodyard is on fire!

Then husband, I and washmaid too,
	With tubs and buckets swiftly run;
Two neighbor sisters also flew
	To help us do what could be done.
Husband pulled the cordwood down
	And flung huge blazing brands about,
While we the crackling cinders drowned
	With careful search till all were "out."

The battle won, with panting breath
	We sought again the portal shade:
	But there, the dining table left,
A housewife's heart might sore dismayed—
	Baby, left king of all the feast,
Had mixed the sugar, meat and sauce,
	The tablecloth be smeared and creased,
Two glasses lay in fragments tossed.

The dining-room is cleared at last
	And baby washed and laid to sleep;
Now here's a deep and quivering gash—
	In daughter's head—I almost weep.
At play she ran and tossed about,
	And struck against the windowsill;
Ah, daughter, you'll be careful now,
	And mother's frequent wish fulfill.

Here husband comes, and not alone.
	Two gentlemen, and strangers too;
My heart sinks down like lead or stone
	As husband whispers: Lunch for two.
No bread, no meat, and I so tired.
	But still I'll do the best I can;
The hasty meal is soon prepared,
	Dispatched and they are off again.

More accidents and incidents
	The freighted hours for me brought on,
And with my utmost diligence
	Not all my tasks at night are done
I dread to-morrows's treadmill round,
	The dull, distasteful toil it brings;
Why must I delve so near the ground?
	I long to soar on fairy wings.

I almost thought my lot was hard,
	Because the things I'd like to do
Are out of reach, my plans are marred,
[Column 2]
	And fainter grow in distance blue
The outlines of my favorite schemes
	Obscured by clouds of household care.
So dull and irksome—Nay, I dream!
	'Tis for these babies pure and fair.

With brighter thoughts and lighter heart,
	I list my darlings' evening prayer;
I think, and tears unbidden start,
	Of when death claimed one jewel rare.
I kiss and bless and lay them down—
	In innocence and peace to sleep;
If they remain I'll never frown
	Though household cares roll fathoms deep.

I'm glad and more than satisfied
	While they are happy, hale and sweet,
Though to their wants my hands are tied
	And busy serving them my feet.
Leave wider fields for those whose homes
	Are not with household jewels set;
While I before the Heavenly Throne
	Give thanks that mine are spared me yet.
								LU DALTON.
St. George, Aug. 1880.


[Column 1]
REPROOF.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	To reprove well and wisely has ever seemed
to me one of the most desirable attainments.
It is a most disagreeable office, and yet at
times a most necessary one; it is desirable to
use language that shall soften instead of hard-
ening the offender; it is also good to command
the voice, that its tones may be persuasive
rather than severe; the countenance also should
denote sorrow more than anger. The reproof
of a wise and virtuous person is ever a token
of love and care for our welfare, whether it
comes from relative, friend or employer, and
should be received with silent dignity. Some
are apt to look upon a reprover as an enemy,
or as unkindness, but this is for want of due
consideration, for if they speak for our good it
must benefit us; and all have the power to
make good come out of reproof. A candid,
noble mind will bear it without one feeling of
rebellion, though it may, and probably will,
sadden the spirit; but such a mind will reason,
meditate, and come to the conclusion it is in-
tended for good, and I will take care that good
shall come of it. Whatever was unjust in the 
reproof, the reprover must be responsible for;
but such a mind will at once see and will be
open to conviction and speedily be brought to
repentance and reformation, for such are ever
humble and teachable and though they may fall
into follies, or some wrong path, the reproof
of the kind and wise will quickly call them back
to duty and rectitude. I'd confess we have
been wrong is only saying we are wiser to-day
than we were yesterday.
	My sisters, let us learn to reprove kindly
and wisely, by the spirit of love, which is the
spirit of heaven. If we are very angry, let us
wait till we can command our feelings; for if
we speak then, there will be harm done instead
of good. I have seen women reprove in their 
families, among their children and servants,
with that mildness, yet with that dignity, that
force and determination, that every tongue was
silenced, every heart convinced, every soul
melted and repentant. Did they feel angry at
her reproof? No; the longer she talked and
reasoned with them the more they loved her,
and she stood in her household as a royal ma-
tron amongst them, and they deemed her "an

[Column 2]
angel in the way!" If ever I have envied, it
has been called out by such women; their dig-
nity of character, their self-controling power,
their abnegation of self. Oh, let us imitate
such models, for they are worthy. A passive
spirit is a sweet one, let it be embodied in
whom it may; not passive when it is our duty
to be energetic, but where we should honor
and obey. Not passive when our child is inso-
lent and disobedient; firmness then must be
aroused to put down rebellion and restore or-
der. But if children are taught from baby-
hood to be obedient to legal authority, they
will rarely rebel, and will not oblige a parent
to speak many times before they will obey.
When I see a disobedient child, I blush and
mourn for the mother, for I know there lies
the mischief. The Savior's description of one
in authority should be the model for the head
of a family: "I say to this one, come, and he
cometh, and to another, go, and he goeth, and
to my servant, do this, and he doeth it."
	The fundamental principle of a well ordered
family is obedience to the laws of that house;
and where this is in full force, little reproof
will be needed; and when it is given it will be
but the echo of our own heart and conscience,
and we at once bow beneath the rod and kiss
the hand that wields it. Oh, how mighty is
that being who walks in innocency before God!
Who, though conscious of many imperfections,
can say, with hand on heart and looking up-
ward, "I desire, my Father, to be thine, only
thine; I desire to be pure even in Thy sight.
Excelsior! is my motto, my war cry in the battle
of life."
Let us then be humble, not servile; meek, but
not abject; passive, but not inert; self-reliant,
yet thankful for assistance when needed. Let
us reprove as we would desire to be reproved,
remembering ever that "the wounds of a friend
are better than the kisses of an enemy;" and
many a one has been made a firm friend by
the sweet way in which their reproof has been
received, and the reprover has at once merged
into the consoler, the adviser, the benefactor
and the friend for life.
	Postscript—It is a positive fact that an obe-
dient spirit bears the ills of life much easier
than a refractory one. The yoke of daily life
does not gall the shoulders, but fits so good
that it is not felt scarcely; a French writer
says, "Man is a bundle of habits"—and good 
habits are much more agreeable than bad ones,
and have no taxes to pay for them—which is
a mighty consideration and recommend in these
days of universal taxation. A well-fitting
habit is also the most becoming dress to all.
Ladies, let us ever wear one!


The front of Pilgrim Hall, Plymouth, is
soon to be ornamented with a group of figures
in bas-relief, carved in wood, and representing
the landing, which will be placed upon the
pediment of the porch. A shallop with a
broken mast, containing bundles and two men,
is at the rock. One man sits holding an oar
and looking at an Indian, while the other is in
the bow of the boat, with one foot on the rocks,
with his hands clasped in that of an Indian,
who kneels and appears to welcome the new
comers. The group is about twenty-five feet in
length and very effective. It is presented by
Mr. Stickney, of Baltimore, designed by Henry
Mitchell, and carved by A. Lus, both of Bos-
ton.—Ex.


90	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LIFE INCIDENTS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	"On the 26th, A. S. Gilbert, keeper of the
Lord's storehouse, signed a letter to the gover-
nor, in connection with others, which was his
last public act; for he had been called to preach,
and he said he would rather die than go forth
and preach the gospel to the wicked Gentile
nations. The Lord took him at his word; he
was attacked with the cholera, and died about
the 29th. Brothers Erastus Rudd and Jesse
J. Smith, a cousin of the prophet, died at Bro.
Gilbert's about the same time.
	"While we were here, the brethren being in
want of some refreshments, Brother Luke
Johnson went to Brother ——— to get a fowl,
asking him for one to make a broth for Bro.
Eber Wilcox and others, but it was denied
him, Brother ——— saying, in a few days we
expect to return back to Jackson County, from
whence we were driven, and he should want
them. When Brother Johnson returned he
was so angry at ——— for refusing him he said:
"I have a great mind to take my rifle and go
back and shoot his horse." I told Luke never
mind, that such actions never fail to bring
their reward. Judge how we felt, after having
left the society of our beloved families, taking
our lives in our hands, and traveling about
one thousand miles through scenes of suffering
and sorrow, for the benefit of our brethren,
and after all to be denied a small fowl to make
a little broth for brethren in the agonies of
death. Such things never fail to bring their
reward; and it would be well for the Saints
never to turn away a brother who is penniless
and in want, or a stranger, lest they may one
day or other want a friend themselves.
	"I went to Liberty, to the house of Peter
Whitmer, which place I reached with difficulty,
being much afflicted with the disease that was
among us. I staid there until I started upon
my return home. I received great kindness
from them, and also from Sister Vienna Jaques,
who administered to my wants and also to my
brethren. May the Lord reward them for
their kindness. While I was here a council
was called, which I attended. The Church
was organized, a Presidency and High Council
chosen, and many were chosen to go to Kirt-
land to be endowed.
	"From that time the destroyer ceased, hav-
ing afflicted us about four days; sixty-eight
were attacked with the disease. Fourteen
members of Zion's Camp died, eighteen died
altogether; the remainder recovered, as we
found out an effectual remedy for this disease,
which was, by dipping the person afflicted into
cold water, or pouring it on him. Some of the
brethren, when they were seized, plunged them-
selves into the stream and obtained immediate
relief.	*	*	*	This led us to try the ex-
periment on others, and in every case it proved
highly beneficial and effectual where it was
taken in season. During our stay in Missouri,
Brother Joseph B. Noble was very sick, and
was taken care of by Elders Brigham and Jo-
seph Young at the house of Joel Sanford. It
was with great exertion that his life was pre-
served, and that by the application of cold
water, being drawn out of a well and poured
upon him daily and hourly. The sufferers in-
variably besought us to plunge them into pools
or springs of cold water, while their thirst for
the same was very great. While our fears
were it would be an injury to them, yet by the
blessing of Heaven it was the only means of
saving them that were saved from the cholera.
Brother Noble's life was yet despaired of, but
he was resolute, and nothing would satisfy him
but to return home. 	*	*
	"Brother Joseph received a revelation saying
that the Lord had accepted our offering, even
as he accepted that of Abraham; therefore, he

[Column 2]
had a great blessing laid up in store for us, and
an endowment for all; and those who had
families might return home, and those who had
no families should tarry until the Lord said
they should go.
	"I received an honorable discharge, in writ-
ing, from the hand of our General, Lyman
Wight.	*	*	*	Before we separated, the
money which had been put into the hands of
our paymaster, and had not been used, was
equally divided among the company; making
one dollar and sixteen cents each. The breth-
ren who had no money when we started from
Kirtland received an equal share with the rest.
	"June 30th I started for home, in company
with Lyman Sherman, Sylvester Smith, Alex-
ander Badlam, Harrison Burgess, Luke John-
son and Zera Cole, with Brother Sylvester
Smith's team, as I had disposed of mine.
About this time Brother Brigham Young started
with about the same number that was with me,
with James Foster's team. After proceeding
about three miles, we stopped and made ar-
rangements for traveling. They chose me to
be their captain, and all put their money into
my hands, whlch amounted to forty dollars.
From thence we proceeded until we came to
Brother Thomrs B. Marsh's; his wife gave us
some dinner, when we proceeded on our jour-ney. May the Lord bless her for it! We
crossed a branch of the Fishing River in a
scow, and when we were pnlling our wagon
out of it the scow was sinking. Here an ene-
my came and swore he would shoot us.	*	*
We pursued our journey until we came to the
Missouri River, which we crossed in a scow;
the current was so rapid that it carried us
down one mile. After we had crossed the
river and traveled about two miles. we came
into the village of Lexington, where we were
threatened some by our enemies, but the Lord
protected us. From thence we proceeded daily,
receiving no harm. We passed through the
town of St. Charles, which looked very gloomy,
as the cholera had nearly desolated the place.
After traveling about eight miles we came to
Jack's Ferry, on the Missouri, where we again
crossed the river. We then proceeded about
five miles, and stopped to take some refresh-
ments, when we were again accosted by one of
our enemies, who swore he would kill us that
night: we traveled about ten miles after sun-
set and camped in the woods. The Lord
again delivered us from the hands of our ene-
mies."
	"We proceeded on our journey daily, the
Lord blessing us with health and strength; the
weather was very hot, still we traveled from
thirty-five to forty miles a day, until about the
26th of July, when we arrived in Kirtland."
	It was Sunday when the news came to
Kirtland of the death of the brethren from
cholera, and the Saints were quietly dispersing
from afternoon meeting. I was with my
mother and Sister Eber Wilcox on the flat
opposite the Gilbert and Whitney store, when
the word came. The scene that followed no
pen can describe; the shrieks and cries of the
bereaved were heartrending, and made a vivid
and lasting impression upon my mind. We
accompanied Sister Wilcox to the house of
Bother Bond, where the night was spent in
sorrow and lamentation.
	"At this time the brethren were laboring
night and day building the house of the Lord.
Elder Rigdon, when addressing the brethren
upon the importance of building this house,
spake to the effect that we should use every
effort to accomplish this building by the time
appointed; if we did, the Lord would accept it
at our hands, and on it depends the salvation
of the Church, and also of the world. Look-
ing at the sufferings and poverty of the
Church, he frequently went upon the walls of
the building, both by night and day, and wept,
crying aloud to the Almighty to send means

[Column 3]
whereby we might accomplish the building.
After we returned from our journey to the
west, the whole Church united in this great
undertaking, and every man lent a helping
hand. Those who had not teams went to work
in the stone quarry and prepared the stones
for drawing to the house. The prophet being
our foreman, would put on his tow frock and
tow pantaloons and go into the quarry; the
Presidency, High Priests and Elders all alike
assisting. Those who had teams assisted in
drawing the stone; these all laboring one day
in the week, brought as many stones as sup-
plied the masons through the whole week.
We continued in this manner until the walls
of the house were reared.	*	*
	"In the winter of 1834-5 I attended the
Theological school established in Kirtland, in
which the lectures on Faith contained in the
Book of Doctrine and Covenants originated.
A certain number were appointed to preach at
each meeting. On one occasion I was called
upon to speak on the principle of Faith. Sev-
eral brethren spoke before me and quoted
every passage mentioned in the Scriptures on
the subject; I referred to an original circum-
stance which took place in my family: My
wife, one day when going out to make a call,
gave my little daughter, Helen Mar, a charge
not to touch the dishes which she had left
standing on the table, as, if she broke any dur-
ing her absence she would give her a whipping
when she returned. While my wife was ab-
sent, my daughter broke a number by letting
the table leaf fall; and then she went out un-
der an apple tree and prayed that her moth-
er's heart might be softened, that when she re-
turned she might not whip her. Although
her mother was very punctual when she made
a promise to her children to fulfil it, yet when
she returned she had no disposition to chastise
the child. Afterwards the child told her
mother that she had prayed to God that she
might not whip her.
	"Joseph wept like a child on hearing this
simple narrative and its application, and said
it was well timed."

To be Continued.


EXPRESSION  OF THANKS

	Although on the wing  I must  pause  long
enough  to tender to  Gen. George  R. Maxwell
et. al.,  my  grateful thanks for the trouble  and
expense  to which  they  have lately  put  them-
selves for the sake of proving how strong is our 
position and how many friends  as  women and
voters we have.
	They could not have done us a greater favor
than thus to sound an alarm  and set our allies
to mustering, unless indeed, they had  actually
succeeded  in cutting  off  our  political  ears, in
which case the favor  would  have been  to the
Great Cause  of Woman's Equality  before   the
Law;  which  by  means  of  the  arrested  atten-
tion and  spmpathy  of  all  Christendom,  would
have been  advanced many years.
	And  I  cannot  suppress  a  little wicked  sat-
isfaction in the fact that for once in the history
of the  World, men have found occasion to com-
plain  that  they are  not  fairly  and  equally
treated! that  discrimination  has  been  used in
favor of women  and  against  them!  Isn't this a
turning of tables unthought  of in  our wildest
dreams?Choir will please to sing,
"Which Kings and Prophets waited for,
But died without the sight."
	L. L. D.


Sow good  services;  sweet  rememberances
will grow from them.—Mme de Stael.

	THE Cincinnati Musical Festival Assoication
have offered  a  prize of $1,000  for  an  original
musical composition to be played at their festi-
val in 1882.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.
(Continued.)
	In our last we referred to the suffering and
sickness upon the way in the journey to the
valley, Amid these scenes Sister Eliza was
like a ministering angel, carrying with her to
the bedside of the afflicted that peaceful spirit
which ever soothes and consoles, and the living
faith which encourages and renews spiritual
strength, lifting one above pain and sorrow into
an atmosphere of divine love and hope. It seem-
ed a part of her mission to build up and inspire
faith in  those who were cast down; thus did
strength, lifting one above pain and sorrow into
an atmosphere of divine love and hope. It seem-
ed a part of her mission to build up and inspire
faith in those who were cast down; thus did
she minister to many, ever patient, hopeful
and full of integrity, cheerful under the most
adverse circumstances and brave in the hour
of danger. Her words of comfort and sublime
prayers are remembered by many,whose hearts
overflow with gratitude for her spiritual help
in the hour of adversity.
	Towards the latter part of the journey the
Saints who were traveling westward began to
hear of the pioneers, and the discovery of the
Salt Lake Valley. On the 4th, of August
several of the Mormon Battalion returning to
Winter Quarters met the Pilgrim companies,
and joyful indeed was the surprise and greeting,
for they were husbands, brothers and sons of
women, who were in those companies. No pen
can describe the scene; in the heart of a great
uncultivated wild and barren plain, the meet-
ing of loved ones, who had been so long separ-
ated. Next came an express from the valley,
and soon after the main body of the pioneers
returning from their memorable pilgrimage.
At the Sweet Water river a feast was made in
honor of the meeting by Apostle John Taylor
(now President of the Church) which has
always been spoken of as "the royal feast;" it
was a time of general rejoicing, thanksgiving
and praise. The next day the pioneers met
Capt. J. M. Grant's company in which Sister
Eliza was traveling, and on this suggestive oc-
casion she addressed to President Young and
camp a poem, which was publish in full. Indeed
her pen was like that of a  ready  writer, and
her thoughts flowed in  poetical rhythm.  The
song  was  written  between the Platte
and Green Rivers.
"Hail! ye mighty men of Isreal,
Who the hiding place have found:
The Eternal God has bles! you—
You have stood on holy ground.
CHORUS.
Praise the Lord! we're glad to meet you!
Welcome, welcome on your way—
Yes, O yes, with songs we greet you,
Pioneers of  Latter-day.
A choice land of old appointed
For the house of Israel's rest,
You have found and consecrated—
Through your blessing 'twill be blest.
CHORUS. Praise the Lold &c.
Holy, free and unpolluted,
Will that land for us remain?
While the sacred laws of justice
There the Saints of God mantain.
CHORUS.
Go return to Winter Quarters—
Go in peace and safety too;
There the purest hearts are beating,
Warm with hopes of seeing you.
CHORUS.
We will onward to  the valley—
Speed your way—make haste and come,
That ere long with joy and gladness,
We may bid you WELCOME HOME.
CHORUS.
	On that night  when  the  pioneers were en-
camped with Capt. Grant's company about fifty

[Column 2]
horses were stolen by the Indians. Bells were
cut and also lariats, and an arrow was picked
up; these were considered sure indications of
Indians. The trail was discovered and twenty
horsemen started out in pursuit of the missing
animals. They returned at night with five of
the horses the others were never recovered.
However they divided with each other and
fitted up as well as they could and proceeded
onward—the pioneers taking the homeward
route. The remainder of the way was tedious,
insufficiency of teams, weariness and the many
perplexities that are to be encountered in a long
journey over an unsettled country; sometimes
no feed for the poor, tired animals and some-
times no water, but God was with his people.
He did not forget them in their hour of trial
and they arrived safely in the valley early
in the month of October.
	President Young had arranged that Sister
Eliza should take up her abode with Mrs. Clara
D. Young, who had accompanied him in his
pioneer journey, therefore on her arrival she
left the family of Brother Pierce and has ever
since resided under Pres. Young's roof. The
first winter in the valley 1847 and 48, was
delightful, mild and  pleasant; the people were
able to procure the logs and build their houses,
plow, sow and prepare for spring wheat, go to
the canon  for  wood, and in fact, perform all
the labors necessary. Everything was done ex-
perimentally, but circumstances favored
them; and health prevailed. The houses were
built of logs and were  enclosed  in  form of a
fort, with all the  doors and  windows  looking
into the yard;  they were  covered  with  willows
and earth, and  were  nearly  flat-roofed, for it
seemed to  be the  impression  there  would be
little or no rain.  In one of these rustic  homes
Sister Eliza passed her  first year in the valley;
the climate seemed to agree with her, her health
was very much improved and her hands as well
as her brain  were constantly employed; her pen
was busy  also, and  many were  the  effusions
written at that time;  the  sisters  looked  up to
her for comfort and sympathy, with  the great-
est reverence  knowing  that  she had  been  for
years associated with the Prophet  Joseph.
	Shortly after  the  Saints  numbering six
hundred, arrived in  the  valley, a tall  liberty
pole was erected, and the  flag which had been
preserved with the greatest care  was  flung to
the mountain   breeze.   Sister  Eliza  says she
gazed  upon it proudly, "and  from its summit
the stars  and stripes seemed to  float with even
more significance, if  possible, than  they  were
wont to do on Eastern  breezes." A feeling  of
independence  and  true spirit of liberty from
bondage and   oppression, pervaded her bosom,
she  had passed through  so much persecution,
that now, although an exile from the home of
her  forefathers, the boasted land of liberty, she
gloried in the  freedom  which this mountain re-
teat seemed  to offer the exiled Saints, and she
gave expression to her enthusiasm in verse.
"I love that flag.  When in my childish glee—
A prattling girl upon my grandsire's knee—
I heard him tell strange tales, with valor  rife,
How that same flag was bought with blood and life.
And his tall form seemed taller when he said,
Child for that flag thy grandsire fought and bled.
My young heart felt that every scar he wore,
Caused him to prize that banner more and more,
I caught the fire, and as in years I grew,
I loved that flag; I loved my country too.
	*	*	*	*	*	*	*
There came a time that I remember well—
Beneath the stars and stripes we could not dwell!
We had to flee; but in our hasty flight
We grasped the flag with more than mortal might;
And vowed although our foes should us bereave
Of all things else, the flag we would not leave.
We took the flag and journeying  to the West,
We wore its motto graven on each breast."
	[TO  BE  CONTINUED.]


A PLEASANT VISIT TO SPANISH
FORK.

	On Saturday morning, Oct. 28, in company
with two sisters, I left this city for the purpose
of visiting, by invitation, the Primary Mutual
Improvement Associations of Spanish Fork at
their annual meeting. The day was clear and
bright and all nature seemed smiling as we
stepped on board the U. S. Train. Soon we
were steaming through fields and over streams,
stopping at the different settlements, where we
saw many familiar faces. On our arrival at
Provo we were met by the President, Sister
Zina Y. Williams, and counselors, Sisters
Nancy Smoot and Mary Johns, of the P. M. I.
A. of Utah Stake. Sister Williams had an-
other engagement, but her counselors accom-
panied us on our journey.
	Upon our arrival at Spanish Fork we were
met by Bishop Snell and the President of the
P. M. I. A., Sister McLean. We were invited
to the residence of the President,where we par-
took of a sumptuous dinner, in company with
a goodly number of the brethren and sisters of
that flourishing town. After dinner Sister
Cornaby read a beautiful poem, composed by
her in honor of our visit, after which we pro-
ceeded to the meeting house, where we found
upwards of three hundred children, with their
parents awaiting our arrival. The house had
been nicely decorated with fancy work by the
children of the Association, for the occasion.
	The very best of order was observed by the
children during the exercises. It seemed al-
most incredible that so many, and such young
children could be so quiet and attentive. The
exercises were well rendered, and spoke well
for the president and her counselors. The an-
swers to questions were promptly and correctly
given by all. Particular mention should be
made of the singing by the small children,
which was a most enjoyable feature of the en-
tertainment. At the close of the exercises the
visitors spoke a few words of encouragement
to the children, urging them to attend regu-
larly their meetings, ever hearken to the coun-
sel of their president, and always observe the
same good order and attention as at that meet-
ing.
	Prizes were then distributed to the children
according to their attendance, which seemed to
give universal satisfaction; the same good order
prevailed during the awarding of the prizes.
After the close of the meeting we returned to
Sister Mc Lean's where refreshments were
served and the evening was spent in social con-
versation, singing and listening to more gems
from the gifted pen of Spanish Fork's Poetess.
Thus began a week of intellectual feasting.
Every house seemed open. Every table groaned
under the bounties of Utah's prolific soil.
Every sister's arms were open to welcome and
make our stay pleasant. When the time for
our return arrived, regrets were expressed by
all that we must separate, and all wafted a
"God bless you" after us as the train bore us
homeward.
	Thus ended one of the most pleasant times,
in one of the most pleasant places, and among
the most pleasant brethren and sisters, that we
had ever spent, one long to be remembered.
Friends and acquaintances formed never to be
forgotten; and with my sisters, I pray God to
bless the Bishop, the President, the children,
the parents, and all who contributed to make
ours "a pleasant visit to Spanish Fork"
									L. B.


THE PLEASURE OF HOPE: When the body
is bowed with pain an intense longing for re-
lief brings hope. This may brighten the suffer-
ing but it does not cure. At a time like this
how welcome is such a friend as Warner's Safe
Kidney and Liver Cure, bringing home health
and happiness and the joys of a renewed life.


92	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE R. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday. 
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 15, 1880.


[Column 1]
LACK OF SPIRITUALLY.

	This, the enlightened nineteenth century, is
termed, not inappropriately, the "age of reason."
Everything must be demonstrated positively, and
clearly elucidated by square and compass, or
some equally tangible method, or the world re-
jects it as false. Men have grown so exceedingly
wise and learned in science that without any
direct communication from heaven they are
able, in their own estimation, to settle all ques-
tions that may arise, or solve any problem, how-
ever difficult. This spirit seems to have impreg-
nated the minds of the majority of the human
family in all cl[-]sses of sociey, and crushed out
the spiritualily which existed in former times,
and which gives to men and women a sublimity
of character that lifts them into an atmosphere
of light and hope, that reaches into the future,
opening up the glories of the life beyond. The
cultivation of the spiritual sense or faculties
strengthens faith in God and in the efficacy of
prayer; and when fully developed in its intensity
opens up a channel of communication which
may be termed inspiration, or revelation; bring-
ing hidden things to light, and piercing the
darkness of the tomb. The inspired writer, Job,
says, "Who by his reasoning can find out God?"
Spirituality is refining; wherever you find this
faculty highly developed you also find a corres-
pondingly high order of thought and aspirations.
	The desire to obtain riches and the wealth of
the world crushes out, or keeps in subjection,
this higher sense, this divinity, which should
predominate over the grosser elements of poor
human nature. It is conceded that woman's
nature is more susceptible to spiritual impres-
sions and the growth and culture of
these finer faculties than that of man,
that women possess a greater degree of the ele-
ments of character that tend heavenward that
lead to the worship of a Supreme Being. This
is absolutely proven by facts and figures such as
the world require. In sorrow and trouble woman
in most instances will cleave to religion, to pray-
er believing and trusting in God's power to bear
her up in the hour of trial and carry her safely
through the deep waters of affliction. How is it
with men? Statistical records tell us most men
seek to drown their sorrow in the poisonous
bowl, or rush madly into self-destruction. Grant-
ing this to be the case and that the rapid spread of
materialism is to be dreaded as leading to irrev-
erence of all that is holy, to unbelief in a Deity
and all that has been for ages held sacred by the
religious world, then there is good evidence that
the greater spiritual progress would be gained
through the higher elevation of woman, the
broadening of her sphere of duties and respon-
sibilities in all the departments of life.
The love that is so pure, and so self-sacrificing,
so strong in woman, reveals the exalted tone of

[Column 2]her true nature. The Savior must have consid-
ered mother love the strongest affection, for He
uses it to illustrate the divine love of the Father
of mankind for his children. "Love," the Sa-
vior said, "is of God, for God is love."
	If anything can be done to arrest the progress
of the spirit of unbelief and infidelity, which
seems to have fallen like a dark cloud upon the
the earth, men and women should exert their
utmost influence and their aid to accomplish it.
Even among the Saints who profess to have
come out from the world,this insinuating, seduc-
ing spirit is creeping in wherever a loophole or
an impregnable place can be found. Too much
pains cannot be taken to promote the growth of
faith and a love of spiritual gifts and principles
and guard every avenue that would lead to
doubt, or unbelief, as cautiously and carefully as
though they led to the most dark and fearful
chasm, and such indeed it is death, to all that
is inspiring and elevating to human character.
The child should have these spiritual impres-
sions so engraven upon its mind and heart in its
earliest and tenderest years, that they may
grow with its growth, and increase with its
strength, giving spiritual force to the elements
of character that will produce a high order of in-
telligence, and superior excellence of attain-
ment. That will grasp after the things that
pertain to a more exalted life, and thus elevate
humanity. Mothers this is your work, to thus
form and mold the infant mind. God makes
the soul, you give it the bias and impressions;
stamp it with a character that is noble and
pure, strive to eradicate selfishness and impur-
ity of whatever name or nature. Be honest
with yourself, with your own heart and draw
near to God in prayer and He will help you in
the work which is before you, the mission given
you, the great opening of a mighty realm of ac-
tion which will exalt you and yours and crown
your labors with eternal life.


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	MRS. M. E. RANDALL has opened a boarding
department in connection with her select school,
in Morgan College Building. For particulars
apply to M. E. Randall, College Building, 14th
Ward, Salt Lake City.

	TRANSLATE the sense of Scripture into your
lives, and expound the Word of God by your
work. Interpret it by your feet and teach it by
your fingers. That is, let your workings and
your walkings be Scripture exposition, as living
epistles read and known of all men.

	WE had a very pleasant call from John A.
Blake, Member of Parliament, House of Com-
mons, and his wife Mrs. Adelaide M. Blake.
They manifested much interest in the Mormon
question, politically and socially as well as religi-
ously. Mrs. Blake was anxious to gather all the
information she could as subject matter for a
book she intends publishing after her return
home.

	SISTERS Eliza R. Snow Smith and Zina D.
Young left this city Monday morning, Novem-
ber 8th, by the Utah Southern Train enroute
for St. George. They will visit some of the set-
tlements by the way; expect to meet with the
Relief Societies Y. L. M. I. A., and Primary
Associations at Fillmore, Scipio, Beaver and
other places, where it is practicable to do so.
We sincerely wish them a pleasant journey and
much joy in their interesting labors.

	THE "Juvenile Instructor" of the present
month is certainly an interesting number. On
the first page is a picture of the Salt Lake Tem-
ple as it will be when completed. The article
upon Temples is very good. The second wood-

[Column 2]
cut is an "Eastern Money-Lender," and gives
the child a good idea of the oriental manner of
transacting business at that period. Every home
in the Territory should have a copy of this use-
ful magazine in it, for the children. The music
is always good, and helps the little ones along in
that branch of instruction.

	A GRAND Concert was given in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall on Monday evening, by Zion's
Musical Society. The singers and performers
were mostly amateurs, and of course one must
remember they are new beginners in criticising
their efforts. The cultivation of music is refin-
ing and elevating, and as there is much musical
ability which needs developing among the youth,
we hope that there will be every avenue open
for them to receive instruction,and perfect them-
selves in this pleasing and inspirational science;
and that due praise and encouragement may be
awarded them, instead of severe criticism, in
their attempts to appear before the public.

	WITH the last company of Saints from Liver-
pool, who arrived in this city Nov. 11, were sev-
eral Elders returning from their missions; among
them Elder John Nicholson, who has been ab-
sent more than two years. While in England
Bro. Nicholson was engaged in editing the Mil-
lennial Star, which he did in a very able
manner. Bro. Nicholson has also published
some interesting tracts in the interest of the
Church, setting forth some of the principles in a
clear and forcible manner. These tracts have
been widely distributed, and no doubt sown
much good seed in the hearts of honest men
and women. In addition to his literary work
he has labored in the ministry whenever it was
expedient for him, attending Conferences and
meetings in various parts of England and Scot-
land. We are pleased to see our brother again,
and cordially join with his many true and warm-
hearted friends in welcoming him back again to
his mountain home and the bosom of his family.

	"A String of Pearls," is the happy title of a
new book for children, just out, published at the
"Juvenile Instructor" office, and is the secondbook of what is termed the "Faith Promoting
Series" of books, suitable to place in the hands
of the children of the Latter-day Saints, to en-
courage them in the faith of the Gospel, and
stimulate them to similar good works. To show
them that the gifts, blessings and powers of the
Church of Jesus Christ are the same now as in
former days, when Jesus was upon the earth.
We heartily recommend this neat little book to
the little folks, and hope they will peruse it with
pleasure and benefit. The first two chapters
are "Among the Poncas," a tribe of Indians in
Western Iowa, and are exceedingly interesting;
it is the personal experience of one of our good
brethren, and every word is true; children, there
is no fiction about it. The next part is entitled
"Anecdotes of Elder Grant," by an able and
entertaining writer, which cannot fail to make
a good impression; "Missionary Incidents, Jour-
ney Across the Plains," by President John Tay-
lor; then follows "Story of a Hat," "Cases of
Miraculous Healing," and other subjects of equal
significance are treated upon; all being personal
experiences of the Elders. Now, if we could be
permitted to offer a suggestion, we should say
that these books are more especially suitable
for boys, although girls may be greatly benefit-
ted by reading them; yet they will not be so at-
tractive for them as something of a more wo-
manly style. There are many women whose
lives are full of rich personal experience, testi-
monies of the power of God in healing, and
thrilling incidents that, were they written up in
a pleasing style and published, would be produc-
tive of great good no doubt. It is just as essen-
tlat that the little girls have faith in God and in


the principles of the Gospel as the little boys.
They are to be the future wives and mothers;
the foundation of faith, virtue, integrity and
honor needs to be securely laid in their hearts,
that they may do their proportion of the impor-
tant work which must necessarily devolve upon
the coming race, now growing up in these val-
leys.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. ﻿93


REPORTS WANTED.

	All the Relief Societies, Young Ladies' and
Primary Associations who are engaged in laying
up grain against a day of famine, are requested
to forward full reports of the amount stored, also
what proportion has been gleaned, and if lent
out (according to President Taylor's counsel at
the April Conference) and not returned, what
receipts are held as security by the society, or
committee, in order that a correct estimate may
be made, before the end of the year, of the quan-
tity of grain which has been stored since the
first commencement of this benevolent enter-
prise. The sisters should never for a moment
forget, that this wheat is a donation, and that
those who have charge of it are responsible for
its safe keeping.
	Wherever granaries have been built, state
definitely what are the dimensions, also the ma-
terial and cost of the building, and how it has
been done, whether by one society or more, or
the Stake. If not completed, state particulars.
Forward these reports to this office as soon as
practicable.
				EMMELINE B. WELLS,
		President Central Grain Committee.
			ELIZABETH HOWARD,
							Secretary.
	Y. L. M. I. A.—Will the secretaries of these
associations of Salt Lake Stake each send, as
soon as convenient, a complete statistical and
financial report of her respective association,
from its organization up to the present time, to
EXPONENT Office.
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON,
						Stake Secretary.


GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS TO RELIEF
SOCIETY SECRETARIES.

	Hereafter Stake Secretaries will only require
semi annual reports, which should be furnished
them as early as the 5th of September and
March, to enable Stake Secretaries to prepare
and forward their reports to Central Secretary
by the 15th, as she is required to give her report
at President Taylor's office ten days prior to
General Conferences. These instructions are
designed for organized Stakes in all the world.
Times of making reports may be varied to suit
the circumstances of branches in foreign coun-
tries and on the Islands.

	SARAH M. KIMBALL, Central Secretary.
By order of Relief Society President.
Salt Lake City, November, 1880.


OBITUARY.

	DIED, of old age in Centerville, Davis Co.,
Mary Ann Harris, wife of John J. Harris
daughter of Thomas and Elizabeth Rushmer
born September 25, 1798, in the Parish of Free-
thorpe, County of Norfolk, England; was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints by Elder Thomas Smith, of Wor-
cestershire, being the first member in the Nor-
wich Conference, on the 26th day of April, 1847.
Emigrated to Utah on the 19th day of January,
arrived in Salt Lake City, October 10th the same
year, and stayed in Salt Lake City until the
Move of 1858, then went with her family to
Payson, and returned to Salt Lake City the fall


of the same year. A short time after moved
with her family to Centreville, Davis Co., where
she resided until the day of her death. Died
Sept. 11, 1880, aged 81 years, 11 months and 17
days. She passed away in peace, without a
struggle.—[COM.
	Deseret News and Millennial Star please copy.


[Column 1]
SUGGESTIVE DAYS.

	These are the days suggestive of sentiment,
of thoughtfulness and reflection days full of
poetical meaning. The gay livery of nature,
the brightness amd glory of summer has left
us for a little season; the flowers are gone, save
here and there a few of a harder kind, chrys-
anthemums and dahlias; the verdure that cov-
ered the hill and plain is now only brown and
bare, and the dry leaves of the summer foliage
rustle under our feet at every step and awaken
melancholy or sober feelings that suggest the
decay of nature and the rude approach of cold,
stern winter.
	This is the season for nutting in those coun-
tries which abound in woods; happy groups of
boys and girls with stout shoes and strong
baskets, ramble over the hills and among the
trees, joyous and blithe, while the merry
laughter rings along the forest path and echoes
back through the brown old woods, breaking
into soft gentle ripples as it dies away along the
hills. The handsome partridges and gay
plumed pheasants flit about half frightened at
the noisy troop of young people, trying to hide
themselves in the almost leafless shrubbery.
A few poor little birds are demurely perched
on the bare branches of the trees, as thoughmeditating where to go for a green leaf and a
little sunshine. The poet, or the sentimental
writer finds plenty of subjects for his pen at
this season, as well as in the gushing spring-
time.
	The autumn leaves have lost their beautiful,
glowing tints; the frost has withered them, and
the gorgeous coloring died out, and only the
sober gray and brown, colors that always wear
well, and are suited to all weathers remain.
There are useful lessons to be learned from
the death of the flowers, the falling leaves, the
bare autumn fields; for nature, our great
mother has done her work kindly and well;
and the precious seeds are scattered, and germs
are nurtured in her tender bosom that will
spring into new life again at the approach of
the gentle maiden Spring.
	Autumnal days are retrospective; involun-
tarily our thoughts go backward: pinched by
the cold, and pierced by sharp winds, we recall
the sweet memory of summer hours, the land-
scape bare and cheerless reminds us of the lux-
urious beanty and richness of the season but
just past, when the earth itself seemed a garden
of loveliness fresh from the hand of the Great
Creator. How Nature mourns and sighs as it
were,and the echo of the sweet but solemn music
finds response in our human hearts, a tender
sympathy exists, which is stirred to its inner
fonntain, which we feel intensely although we
may not have the power of utterance to clearly
express and define it.

And is there in our hearts no sad regrets,
	No mem'ries of the last year's falling leaves?
Shall we the sweetness of the past forget,
	Or glean and garner it in mem'ry's sheaves?

	Yes memory calls up a host of recollections
as a parting requiem to the beauties of the
fields and forests, that have died out along the
mountain and over the plain. We know not
if we shall see the earth robed in beauty again,
with the same dear friends around us, the
same happy faces beaming kindly upon us, but
we do know that the principles of eternal life
remain, that whether we live or die there is a
land of light and glory and perpetual loveli-

[Column 2]
ness, where flowers never fade, or warm hearts
grow cold, and that in that shining and beauti-
ful land, now dwell some of those whose lot
was [-]nce cast with ours; who saw the summer
fade along the shadowy hills, and heard the
weird rustle of the falling leaves, and wondered
as we do now at the picture and the melanch-
oly music of the sighing breeze and ere the
Spring had blushed into bloom,were gone from
earth, and their faces no more seen among the
living.
								AUNT EM.


DARE  TO  DO  RIGHT.

	I have just perused the beautiful little song
with the above title, and as I think how ap-
propriate it is for free and bold young Ameri-
cans, my mind wanders back to other countries
and governments less fortunate. Monarchs,
magistrates, priests and nations pass before my
memory's eye, as in a panorama, with their 
record of sinful pride, vanity, implacable ha-
tred, and insatiable  thirst for wealth  and  hon-
ors,  on  the  part  of  rulers, and the abject pov-
erty, ignorance and cowardice of the masses.
	Sad, very  sad  is  the  future.  So  much  so,
that I turn  from  it with  the  heavy, sorrowful
feeling which all who love their fellow-creatures
experience,  when  they  witness  their  downfall
without  being  able  to  help  them. Oh, that
those monarchs had been taught in their youth
to  do  right!  That  their  courtiers,  senators
and   priests  had   been  taught  to  dare  to  do
right! How much misery it would have spared
the  human  family. Then  love,  justice  and
mercy would  have  superceded  hatred, oppres-
sion  and  cruelty, and  intelligence  and  thrift
would have been the  happy  lot  of  the  nations
—both  drawing upon  themselves  the blessings
instead  of  the  wrath  of  the  Almighty.
	I see Rome—the grand city built upon seven
hills, the  cradle  of  noble  warriors  and  law-
makers, in  whose  portals  falsehood,  cowardice
and   even  self-indulgence  were  once  held  as
crimes—what is she  now?  A den of iniduity.
She  has  flattered her rulers into  splendor and
revelry, and they have crushed her people into
the dust.  Bigotry  and  tyrrany walk  hand in
hand, for  the  ignorance  of  the masses is  their 
strongest  foothold.  No  negro  ever  was   in
worse bondage  than  the  Roman  people  have
been for centuries.
	The   Roman  Church,    self-called   "Chiesa
Catolica  Apostolica  Romana,"  as late as 1847,
(more or less)  reigned Church and State, nomi-
nally, only the  Romau Empire;  but in reality,
over  all  Italy,  Spain,  Portugal,  France  and
Austria,  whose  kings  and  emperors  dared
hardly  assert their souls to be their  own. In-
stance: The  Inquisition  of Spain,  Rome  and
Venice; the  persecutions  of  the  Waldenses in
Piedmont, and Huegenots in France, etc.
	But  a  brighter  day  has  dawned  for   them
also.  In 1847  or 1848,  after   the  close  of the
Austrio-Italian  war,  Victor Emmanuel, son of 
Charles  Albert, succeeding  his  father  to  the
Sardinian  throne,  shook  the  Papal  yoke  off,
freed  the  people, giving  them a Constitutional
government, liberty  of worship, and  liberty of
the  press.  He  dared to do right in the face of
priestly  persecution;  and  to  a  long anathema
of Pius the IX, which was published in all the
leading papers  of  Europe (for a scare) Victor
Emmanuel  made  this  beautiful  reply: "God
placed  this  people  under my care, to God alone
will I answer."
	Morgan City.	E. C. F.
	To be  Continued.


CALUMNY would soon starve and die of itself,
if nobody took it in and gave it lodgings.—
Leighton.


94	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	The first Ladies Conference, consisting of the
Relief Societies and Y. L. M. I. Associations
for the Eastern Arizona Stake of Zion, was
held in Snowflake, September 25th, 1880.
Pres. Willmirth East presiding. After singing
and prayer, Sister East expressed her gratitude
and joy at meeting with the sisters in the capa-
city of a conference; realizing it to be the first
of the kind ever held in Arizona. Welcomed
all, and made a few encouraging remarks, after
which reports from the different organizations
throughout the Stake numbering in all, six
Relief Societies. and four Y. L, Associations,
(which were only effected one month before)
were read, showing them to be in a prosperous
condition. The condensed reports for Relief
Societies, gave a total of 186, officers and mem-
bers, and for Y. L. M. I. A., a total of 108,
officers and members.
	Owing to the recent organizations, our finan-
cial report was deemed scarcely worthy to be
noted. Quite an amount of gleaning has been
done by the sisters in the different branches,
which will be reported at our next conference.
During the meeting we were honored with a
visit from Elders Erastus Snow and Brigham
Young, of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles,
who were here from Utah, also Prest. Jesse N.
Smith of this Stake.
	Brother Snow expressed great pleasure at
finding the ladies' organizations so nearly com-
pleted; was earnest in his exhortations and
congratulations to the sisters upon this, their
commencement in a new country. Felt that
the Lord had blessed them abundantly in
their labors thus far, and would continue to do
so. The following officers being sustained by
the conference, were then blessed and set apart
to their different callings, by the Apostles, and
Stake authorities present. Mrs. Willmirth East
President of Relief Societies for Stake, Mrs.
Emma S. Smith, and Lois R. Hunt, her
Counselors; Ida F. Hunt, Stake President of Y.
L. M. I. Association, with Mrs. Nellie Smith,
and Miss Emma Larson, Counselors. A good
spirit prevailed throughout the conference,
which was adjourned indefinitely.
	Several numbers of the EXPONENT are taken
throughout the Stake, and they are indeed
welcome visitors, bringing us glad tidings and
words of consolation from the many dear ones
left behind in our homes. We do not wish to
be forgotten, and feel that though far away
we may still be of service in the great cause,
which is our earnest desire.
						IDA F. Hunt,
				Stake Sec'y Relief Society.

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Sevier Stake, held at Rich-
field October 24 and 25, 1880.
	Meeting called to order by Pres. Elizabeth
[-]ean. Singing. Prayer by Pres. H. K.
[-]aurber. Singing. The reports of the differ-
ent wards were read by the Secretary. After
which Sister E. R. S. Smith, by request, arose
and addressed the congregation Was pleased
to see a few of the brethren present, as it
showed that our interest in coming together
was mutual; and also, that they might correct
us if need be. Spoke on the subject of organ-
ization; said there were some societies which
women had a right to organize, such as the Y,
L. and Primary Associations, but they had no
right to organize a Relief Society; but they
could assist the priesthood in doing so. Said
if we were living up to our duties we were
helpmeets to the priesthood. Felt herself
highly honored in being numbered with the
sisters of the Relief Societies of this Church.
Urged us to be devoted and faithful to our
duties, and realize the great responsibility of
rearing the young, and not to spend our time

[Column 2]
in unnecessary labor, to the neglect of our
children in sending them to meeting; referred
to the growing infidelity in our midst, and
thought we should keep the good continually
before them, that it might get the precedence
of evil. Spoke of the great pleasure she ex-
perienced in meeting with the children, of
their improvement, and of the importance of
their being punctual, and setting the example
to the children to be on time. Wished to im-
press on the minds of the sisters to commence
their meetings at the time appointed.
	Sister B. W. Smith was pleased with the
privilege of meeting with the Saints in peace;
had attended the first organization in the days
of Joseph, where he had instructed the Society
to adopt the use of parliamentary rules.
Thought we should teach the children not to
use tea, coffee, tobacco, whiskey, nor to lie,
steal nor swear; and by so doing they would
become great and good. Urged us to observe
the Sabbath day. Prayed that we might not
go into apostacy, but that we might have a
good time during Conference, aud that the
blessings of the Lord would rest upon Israel.
	Sister Eliza explained that she had been
given a mission to assist the priesthood in or-
ganizing the Relief Societies; hence, some had
conceived the idea that she organized.
	Pres. Thurber spoke of the quiet, peaceful
spirit which always prevailed at the sisters'
meetings, and of the good influence they ex-
erted, and of the universal liberty and freedom
enjoyed by the Saints in the Kingdom of God.
	After some good and instructive remarks by
Sister Bean, Conference adjourned until two
p. m. Siuging and benediction.
	2 p. m. Meeting called to order by Pres.
Bean. After the usual opening exercises, the
presidents of the different wards gave a verbal
report of the Societies. They reported the
Societies to be prospering, and as a general
thing the sisters were willing to do all in their
power to aid in advancing the work of the
kingdom.
	Pres. Bean encouraged the sisters to do bet-
ter in the future, and to live humble, be prayer-
ful and alive to their duties.
	Sister Eliza gave the Secretaries some in-
structions in regard to keeping the books, &c.
Spoke of the benefit and beauty of children
being taught to work, and those who were
were the ones that generally made their mark
in the world and become useful members of
society and the kingdom of God.
	Sister Bathsheba thought we were all labor-
ing in a school which embraced every princi-
ple of the Gospel, and hoped we would study
those principles thoroughly. Advised us to
adopt the plan of ruling our children by love
and kindness, and by gaining their esteem and
confidence we would be enabled to have a much
greater influence.
	Sister Spencer felt thankful for and much
pleased with the visit of the sisters from Salt
Lake, and had enjoyed the meetings very
much, and esteemed it a great privilege to be
numbered with this people.
	Sister Thurber felt desirous of responding to
every call made upon her, and realized the
benefit and blessings to be derived from com-
ing to meeting; Bore her testimony to the
truth of what had been said.
	Sister Ruth Heywood said she had been a
member of this Church for thirty years, and
could bear her testimony that she had never
regretted it. Spoke of the sublimity of the
principles of honesty and truth. Felt thank-
ful for the wise counsel and instruction we had
received, and for the organization of the Pri-
mary Association. Exhorted all to live so
that we may gain a celestial glory.
	Bishop Horne, by the request of Pres. Bean,
made some excellent remarks; referred to the
timidity of the sisters in arising to speak; en-
couraged them to overcome it, and remember

[Column 3]
that they were talking to the Saints. Urged
the sisters to be punctual and regular in at-
tending meeting.
	Bishop Poulsen said there was a pleasure in
doing our duty that only a Saint can feel.
Commended the faithfulness and diligence of
the sisters in the societies, nnd encouraged,
them to continue in doing good. and keep the
Spirit of God, for without the spirit of our
calling we could not do much.
	Sister Eliza said there was a deficiency in
the Stake organization, there being no Trea-
surer. Sister Maria Horne was presented and
sustained to fill that office.
	Meeting appointed for the presidents of the
societies at 6:30 at Sister Thurber's. Confer-
ence adjourned until Saturday at 10 a. m.
Choir sang an anthem. Benediction by Bro.
Ence.
	Saturday, 10 a. m. Meeting opened with
singing and prayer. Sister Eliza greeted the
assembly with a pleasant good morning, and
asked each and every one to lift their hearts in
prayer to God, that we might have His Holy
Spirit to be with us through the remainder of
this Conference, as this would be the last meet-
ing for the sisters. Spoke with feeling upon
the importance of a teacher's calling; encour-
aged them to obtain the Spirit of the Lord
when visiting the sisters, that they might be
enabled to comfort the sorrowing, strengthen
the weak, and become Saviors in Zion. Coun-
seled us to be charitable to each other and
help one another to overcome. Spoke of plural
marriage and her feelings when she first heard
it; how she had obtained the victory over
them, and how she felt now. Referred to the
time when the prophet first received the revela-
tion and the effect it had. Rejoiced in the
useful lives of the many good sisters in this
Church, and in the glorious reward they would
obtain by their faithfulness. Instructed them
in regard to washing, anointing and adminis-
tering to each other.
	Sister Bathsheba bore her testimony to the
truth and divinity of plural marriage, of its
refining and elevating influence, and the re-
ward if lived right.
	Sister Bean bore her testimony to the truth
of the same. Related some of her experience
in trying to live plural marriage, and the tes-
timonies of the Spirit to her and its comforting
influence.
	After a few good remarks by Brothers Bean
and Thurber, the Conference adjourned until
Jan 1st, 1881. Choir sang "This is my com-
mandment." Benediction by Bro. Thurber.

			ELIZABETH BEAN, Pres't.
			CATHERINE A. HUNT, Sec'y.


QUILTS.

		Salt Lake City, Oct. 29th, 1880.

SISTER E. B. WELLS:

	In passing the Twelfth Ward Assembly
Rooms yesterday, I was accosted by the Presi-
dent of the Ladies Relief Society and invited
in. I found quite a number of ladies present,
working on two quilts. Finding that they re-
quired a needle threader, they petitioned me to
become a candidate for the office. The quilts
I believe were for the Temple hands, or some
other such worthy object.
	I thought if the Relief Societies of each
Ward of this Stake would do the same for like
purposes, there would be seventy quilts for
seventy men now engaged on the Temple. If
every Stake in this Temple District would
follow suit could not the families of the two
hundred Temple hands be supplied,and assist in
making their families comfortable and happy.
How many Relief Societies will engage to do
this?								R. C


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿ 95


[Column 1]
THE FRUITS OF OUR LABOR.

READ AT THE ANNUAL MEETING OF Y. L. M. I.
A., 11 WARD.

	It is now nine years since we began the task
of remodeling ourselves—since we commenced
to realize the existence of our spiritual beings
—that life was not given us that we might eat,
sleep, make money and die, but we began to
learn the necesity of cultivating the mind, ad-
ministering to the needs of an immortal
soul and training the heart in the ways of
obedience to God, and the light of inspiration.
We caught a glimpse of a higher and more
noble object of living.
	Much has been done, but the field of labor
seems to be but just opened. How many of
the little girls who, years ago flocked to the
feast of their minds and souls, weekly prepared
for them in our little meetings are now
happy wives (notwithstanding the fact that a
large number entered the order of celestial
marriage) and are devoted mothers, all the
better qualified to discharge the holy duties of
motherhood and consequently are benefactors
to society.
	From our ranks have gone to new fields of
labor, and will still go, women whose names
will be honored as far as the sound of the Gos-
pel can reach. The seeds of their success and
honor were planted when they made their first
feeble attempt to speak in an organized capaci-
ty, and were cradled by a succession of untiring
efforts, struggling hand to hand with the powers
of darkness and the evil they were enabled to
see in themselves. And they triumphed to a
certain extent, by fasting and mighty prayer,
by singing and praising God, and count hours
as only moments?
	We scarcely stop to think seriously upon any
subject but fashion. Many of our aspirations
reach no further than the feather that floats over
our heads. Our eyes see little but the failings
of each other and our ears are open to scandal
and prejudice, while our lips are but the servants
of our idle giddy brain. We are too easily satis-
fied with ourselves and our labors. While the
great work of life rolls on constantly calling for
earnest, busy laborers in the cause of humanity,
we, in our wild mania after pleasure, rush blind-
folded past every avenue of doing good, and every
wide open door of improvement, while our
hungry, starved spiritual natures must stand
aside and wait the time when they will be al-
lowed to plead their just cause without being
forever silenced by the harsh, unfeeling voice,
of our own selfish natures. Now let us stop in
this soul and body destroying course, and listen
to the reasoning that will keep us in the ways
of peace, honor and everlasting life.
	Oh! that we the daughters of Zion would
claim our privilege in leading out in all that
is pure and refining God requires this at our
hands. Let us cultivate more true modesty
and less prudery. More sincere sisterly res-
pect and charity for each other and indulge in
less flattery, and let our daily intercourse at
home and abroad be characteristic of pure
nobility of soul. We can overcome our rough,
uncouth ways, use only chaste and elegant lang-
uage, and always manifest a respectful consid-
eration for the feelings and opinions of others.
Thus fortified we can trust ourselves in the
company of the cultured without a book of
etiquette in our pockets.
	Let us seek for that guide which would pre-
serve unsullied a spotless reputation and prevent
us from associating with the rude and wicked.
Let us take pride in maintaining the principles
of truth that shall stand when nations now
prosperous have gone to decay, fearing no rid-
icule, dreading naught but the punishment of
our offended Creator. Let us not cut our-
selves short of an inheritance with our
Heavenly Father by folly and disobedience.

[Column 2]God requires of us all that we are able to do,
and in the end our hearts will swell with ever-
lasting joy and gratitude, surpassing all mortal
comprehension.
						LILLIE FREEZE.
	Salt Lake City Oct. 18, 1880.


[Column 1]
VISIT TO ST. GEORGE.

	I left home August 15; traveled by rail to Mil-
ford, from thence to Fort Johnson by coach; I
was then so exhausted I was obliged to stop for
a few days. I took private conveyance to Cedar
City; stopped a few days at Bishop Lunt's, who
took me on to Leeds, where I hired a boy to con-
vey me to St. George. My expenses have not
been less than one hundred dollars.
	I commenced working in the Temple October
8th; I officiated for many of my dead friends,
and was baptized for my health in that beautiful
Font, from which I derived great benefit.
	As I was about starting from home, some of
my friends said to me, "There will be Temples
done soon nearer home; why not wait?" Said I,
"I am here now, I have no lease of my life." I
thought of the days of Nauvoo; how gladly we
would have worked in the Temple, but we were
hindered by our enemies. I do not know how
much Satan may stir them up again. My
friends thought it a very great undertaking for
me to travel over such a rough country, and so
it was; but I knew faith without works was dead,
it would never redeem my dead friends, and the
thought of meeting them when I had not ex-
erted myself to embrace the first possible oppor-
tunity was very unpleasant; I felt that a know-
ledge of having done my duty would be much
the best. I felt that my dead were urging me
on. I employed others to assist me, and left
some work for my friends to do for me.
	The redemption of our dead should occupy a
large space in the hearts of those who are per-
mitted to come forth on the earth in this the
dispensation of the fulness of times. Do we be-
lieve that our dead friends are in prison, and
cannot extricate themselves without our aid?
We must then go through those initiating ordi-
nances, before they can be released from their
prison house. Do we believe this, and yet are
indifferent with regard to these things? The
only place on earth where we can do this work
is in the St. George Temple.
	While I was in St. George I rode about the
city with my nephew, George D. E. Smith, and
Sister Augusta Smith. We visited the quarry,
where the rock was taken from for that beauti-
ful edifice, the Temple. As we rode on I looked,
I gazed, I admired the grandeur of the scenery
which surrounded us. Said I, "The Lord has
made this place on purpose for a Temple, 'Where
the wicked shall cease from troubling, and the
weary can be at rest;' and where the Saints
could be permitted to build their Temple and go
in and out in peace." How long this will last
we know not. I think it best for us to lose no
time, but improve every opportunity to work
while we have peace. Do we realize the impor-
tance of these things? I fear not.
	I visited Brother John L. Smith's family, and
enjoyed myself spendidly, for I could look around
and see samples of the ancient order, when the
Saints all had common things; that is, when
they all had the workmanship of their own
hands. For there were picture frames, bed-
steads, bureau, chairs, lounge, what-nots and
brackets, all the workmanship of their own
hands; and their ornaments were specimens
from out the earth, and their trimmings of ferns,
flowers and moss from the mountains. I really
thought their example worthy of imitation.
	I have had a great desire to understand the
United Order in its true light, and how the
Saints could have all things common among
them, and yet have order. One night after I
got home from the Temple, sleep seemed to
have fled from me; I was rehearsing over that
Scripture, "The Saints had all things common
among them. I wished to know how this could
be, and yet be order among them. These words
thrilled through my senses: The Saints all had
common things; they were not puffed up in
pride one above another, some sitting on im-
ported stuffed chairs while others must sit on
wooden stools. No indeed; there were no poor
among them, and because of their union and
industry they became exceedingly rich. Then
some began to put on gold, and silks, and fine-
twined linen, and to be puffed up in pride one
above another; then they very soon strayed
from the right path, and set up churches of

[Column 2]
their own, and went into all manner of wicked-
ness. Hence, the necessity of the United Order.
							LUCY M. SMITH.

	P. S. My heart is full of blessings for those
who work in the Temple, and I pray God to
bless them a thousand fold.			L. M. S.
	Salt Lake City, October 25, 1880.


MEETING AT SPANISH FORK.

	The Primary Association of this place held its
second annual meeting Saturday, October 23.
The President, Mrs. Mary Ann McLean, had in-
vited Sisters Louie Felt, Mary A. Freeze and
Clara Conrad, from Salt Lake City, with Pres.
Zina Y. Williams and her Counselors,Miss Nancy
Smoot and Mary John, from Provo, who, with
the exception of Sister Williams, who was un-
avoidably detained, were all present, and ex-
pressed the greatest pleasure and gratification
at the reception they met, and at the cordial and
hearty welcome they received. Sister McLean
and her mother had prepared a sumptuous din-
ner, to which many of her friends had been in-
vited to meet our sisters before named; among
these were Bishop George D. Snell and wife.
At the dinner table some verses of welcome
were read, written for the occasion by Hannah
Cornaby, at the request of Sister M. A. McLean.
(We publish the first and last verses:)

"We welcome you to Spanish Fork,
	With a welcome warm and true;
And heartfelt is the greeting
	We now extend to you.
'Tis very pleasant thus to meet,
	Amid life's busy throng,
With those who, like ourselves, desire
	To help God's work along.

*		*		*		*		*		*

"We trust your little visit here
	To you and us may prove
A happy interchange of thought,
	Of friendship and of love;
That you may take back to your homes
	Some kindly thought from here;
That we may hold your memory sweet,
	Our interview most dear."

	After dinner our party went to the meeting
house, which had been very tastefully decorated
with flowers and very charming autumn foliage,
also some beautiful specimens of children's
fancy work and quilts, and fruit and vegetables,
products of the boys' labor.
	The children assembled at two p. m., with
beaming, happy faces; many of the parents and
friends of the little ones were present. It was
really wonderful to see the promptness with
which the children went through the various
parts assigned them. One essay, on Truth, read
by Miss Mary Swenson, was excellent, and
called forth remarks of approbation from the
visitors. A duet, sung by Master Andrew an[-]
Miss Margaret Morgan, was admirable, also a
song by Miss Lizzie Hitchens, who was accom-
panied by her father on the violin. Questions
on the organization of the Church and the first
principles of the Gospel were answered very
promptly by the little ones. The Lord's prayer
and verses on the duty of man were given in
concert,besides various other exercises,performed
in a manner which reflected much credit on
their president and her assistants.
	Mrs. Louie Felt addressed the meeting, prais-
ing and encouraging the little ones; engaging
their attention by her pleasing and lovable
manner.
	Mrs. Mary Freeze, in her happy and interest-
ing style, riveted the attention of young and
old, while words calculated to do much good fell
from her lips.
	Miss Nancy Smoot, though suffering from a
severe cold, very cheerfully responded to a re-
quest to address the children, which was done in
a very humble and childlike spirit, telling of her
great happiness in being present on this occa-
sion. Expressed her inability to describe the
joy and pleasure she felt while listening to the
exercises of the children; gave some good coun-
sel and prayed that the blessing of God might
rest on the little ones.
	Miss Mary J. John followed with some suita-
ble remarks, very modest and simply sweet,
which from one so young were exceedingly
pleasing.
	Miss Priscilla Lewis, Secretary of the Temple
Fund, read the names of the children who had


contributed since last January, making a sum
total of $9.80, in sums ranging from one egg to
sixty cents. Some very pretty cards, as rewards
of merit, were presented to the larger children,
while smaller ones were given to every child
present. Our Association numbers 235 mem-
bers. The second annual meeting will be a time
long to be remembered by the happy little ones.
	Our city friends stayed several days in Span-
ish Fork attending meetings, visiting friends
and doing good. We wish such visitors would
come often.			HANNAH CORNABY.


96	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S VOICE

	I often think that I would like to mingle my
voice with the rest of my sisters, in regard to
the work in which we are all engaged; we are
somewhat isolated from the main body of the
Church. We are trying to serve the Lord, I be-
lieve. We were joined yesterday by a company
of our brethren and sisters from Sanpete, Utah,
which will help very much to strengthen us
here. Our town is growing very fast; we have
a Relief Society here, also Young Men's and
Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions, but we are just beginning; I hope they
will prove a great success. The people here
seem to be alive to their duties, and are inter-
ested in the good work. The Gospel is begin-
ning to spread among the Mexicans, who seem
to be a good-hearted people, but they have a
great deal of tradition to overcome. I think
that we can do about as much by example here
as we can by preaching. Not wishing to intrude,
I will close, ever wishing success to the EXPO-
NENT.				SEMANTHA T. BOICE.
	Manassa, Colorado, Oct. 25, 1880.


On the evening of October the 10th, Prof.
Swift. astronomer of the Rochester Observatory
N. Y. discovered a large comet.

	"The fact was noted in Associated Press dis-
patches, but some important and interesting
details which could not be telegraphed are here-
with given. The new celestial visitor is in the
Constellation of Pegasus, right ascension, 21
hours, 30 minutes, declination north 17 degrees,
30 minutes. Its rate of motion is very slow,
being in a north westerly direction, so that it is
approaching the sun. It has a very strong con-
densation on one side of the centre, in additon
to a star-like nucleus, which indicates that it
is throwing off an extended tail. From the fact
of its extraordinary size, we are warranted in
presuming that it will be very brilliant, and the
additional fact that it is coming almost directly
toward the earth, gives good promise that it
will be one of the most remarkable comets of
the present century. This is the fifth comet
which Prof. Swift has discovered, and the in-
creased facilities which Mr. W. H. Warner, the
popular and wealthy medicine man, has given
him, by erecting a magnificent observatory for
his benefit, promises much more for the future.
There is a possibility that further developments
may prove this to be the great comet of 1812,
which is being constantly expected, in which
event astronomers will have an unusual oppor-
tunity to test the spectroscope for the first time
upon these eccentric bodies, and ascertain cer-
tainly what they are."


A PLEASANT MANNER.—It is a pleasure to
oblige really agreeable people.Some unhappy men
are so organized that it,is only with difficulty
they can even force the appearance of politeness.
Without intending it their manner is repellant,
and if they have a fair share of combativeness,
antagonistic to such an extent as to make their
society unsought and disagreeable. They receive
favors ungraciously, and grant them in such a
manner as makes the recipient regret having
asked them. But the naturally agreeable per-
son both accepts and confers a favor in a manner
delightful to witness.


MY life was saved by Warner's Safe Kidney
and Liver Cure.—E. B. Lakely, Selma, Ala.
	A HAPPY RESTORATION.—I can truly say
that I owe my present existence and happy res-
toration to the hopes and joys of life, to the use
of Warner's Safe Kidney and Liver Cure, and I
say to every one suffering from any manner of
kidney, liver, and urinary trouble, "Use this
remedy and recover."		W. E. SANFORD.
	Holly, N. Y., Feb. 25, 1880.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE following extract from an Indiana
woman's letter to a friend and published in full
in Boston, Woman's Journal explains itself.
	George W. Julian spoke here to an immense
audience. The old expressions, "beautifully
infernal," "delightfully satanic," which I have
again and again heard him apply to Democrats
in days of yore, sounded very familiar as they
fell from his lips. But the application, now
how different! To-day they are used against
Republican leaders, and to tickle Democratic
ears. Well do I remember when "he would
hang and hang liberally" these same Dem-
ocratic friends who now applaud his every
utterance.
	Oh, dear! what a queer world this is, any-
way! You never know what your nearest
friend will do next. And I will only reiterate
in conclusion that I am disgusted and sick.
	One thing I always said I would not do, was
to live with a Democrat. Certainly I never
would have married one. Now comes the con-
undrum—when you marry a Republican, and
he turns to a Democrat what can you do?
				Loyally yours,
								B. J. M.


THE EARTHQUAKE: London, 11,—The losses
by the earthquake in Agram, on Tuesday, are
estimated at 3,000,000 florin, without reckoning
the damage to churches. Reports of havoc by
the earthquake have been received at Agram
from the whole surrounding country.
	Agram, 11.—Fresh earthquakes threw down
many houses, causing a fearful panic.


[Column 1]
WARNER'S
SAFE
[image of a black worker]
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE

HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
	If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
 threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. ☞ Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO., CHICAGO, ILL.
O. H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE in Bishop Hunter's old residence, between Z. C. M
I. and the National Bank.
	RESIDENCE 11th Ward, 7th East Street, between South and
1st South Streets, west side of street.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
[-]EST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS.
	Also; full and desirable [--]nes, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
To be foud in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

[Column 2]
ROMANIA B. PRATT
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Contitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Fall and Winter Goods. ☜

ELLEN B. FERGUSON.
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE on Main St., Old Constitution Buildings.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, Between 9th and
16th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

DAVID JAMES
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 386, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes. Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent of the PROVO WOLLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS, WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE—MAIN ST., OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX. 541.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
