VOL. 9.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1881.	NO. 19.


[Column 1]
IN  MEMORIAM.

F. A. C. JAN. 7th, 1881.

"Shew me the path of life."
She "asked of thee life and thou gavest it."

Was this thy prayer! beloved,
When standing 'neath the em'rald arch
Of thy sweet  springtime, thou didst gaze,
Adown the vista of the years to be, and through
The dim haze caught the dawning blush,
Of rosy summer suns, that heralded
The full orbed glory of thy royal womanhood.
And as thy white-winged thoughts,
Pure, spotless as the lily-bud, which amorous winds
Have scarcely dared  to kiss, sped through
The paths of knowledge, to the fane,
Where learning sits enthroned—and gathered thence,
Sweet inspirations rife with future good;
And youth passed like a joyous song;
Did the petition rise,  that he who in the aeons past,
Created Life, thy tender feet would guide,
Along the path untried, untrodden yet,
Through which thy happy spirit should,
At last attain the Evermore—
And when upon the radiant loveliness
Of thy meridian fell the mystic charm
Of love, that in the loved one lives; and stirred
The hidden depths of thy sweet nature
To a tremulous calm, thy spirit rose
From fiery baptism to newer life,
In which all selfish aims and purposes
Were lost.
	Thy busy hands
Took up the loom of life, and wove therein,
A web of fairest texture, violet-hued,
And flecked with many a thread,
Of gold and silver sheen, in kindly deeds
And words of loving helpfulness
To those who called thee friend,
The benison of this prayer,
In thy self consecration, brooded
Dove-like within  thy gentle breast,
And  in  thy dreams existence held
Nothing so bright, so beautiful  as love—
And love was life.
	Time passed—
And on thy fair white brow,
Was placed the royal crown of motherhood—
The keystone of the arch of earthly life—
And waxen finger-tips with their soft pressure
Thrilled thy woman heart with extasy unutterable.

	God called thee then,
And the full choral of thy life's sweet hymn,
Set to celestial music, was intoned
By choirs invisible, and thou didst join
That radiant throng whose harmonies,
Ne'er reached our dull and earth-stopped ears.
He heard thy prayer and answered it.
We 'neath the cloud of sorrow,  cried
With bitter woe, "Her life is done."

	With tear-blinded eyes,—
We could not see the azure bars, through which
The glory rifted as thou entered in,
Nor hear the pealing anthems that did hail,
Thy soul's Apotheosis.
Thou hast reached the fount of life divine!
The golden chalice of thy soul is filled
With its full tide, and pearly drops o'erflowing
Bring healing balm to stricken hearts below.
In thy bright home, forget us not,
But let the electric chain of love,
That binds thee to the Father's great white throne,
Drop golden links to weld our souls to thee.
And may the light of thy bright life,
Beam starlike o'er the path we too must tread.

	Kind angels guard,
Thy sleeping dust until the resurrection morn,
When clothed with immortality, and crowned
With endless lives, we too shall clasp thy hand,

[Column 2]
And walk with thee the golden streets
Of that fair city where the living never die.
	E. B. FERGUSON.
	Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
	LIVING LINKS:
	OR
	SPIRITUAL AND TEMPORAL.

	BY AVONDALE.

	CONTINUED.
	If Mr. Apothecary Lindsay had exercised a 
sound discretion, he would have taken care to 
have a settlement made of the fortune of his
daughter, in her favor, before marriage. It so
happened that the city merchant was not so
wealthy as supposed; life in the city of Lon-
don was very expensive in those days; the 
baneful habit of wine-drinking was indluged 
in to a fearful extent. Men would boast of
their powers in hard drinking, calling them-
selves "bottle men;" some were four or five
bottle men, that is, they could drink that num-
ber of bottles of wine at a sitting, "without
being the worse for it," i.e., they were not in-
toxicated. There are some things men can do
in "society," that however evil in themselves,
they are winked at; drinking is one of them,
and will be so long as that practice is fashion-
able. But no man should give his daughter
in marriage to one who is guilty of such a de-
grading practice, which not only injures the 
health of the drinker and impoverishes the
purse, it afflicts his posterity possibly for many
generations—if not cut off earlier by disease
and death. So recently as within the last 
forty years the writer has witnessed some of
these scenes at table, "after dinner," as was 
said by way of excuse for inebriety. Men,
gentlemen of high social standing, would de-
mean themselves by excessive drinking—not 
in the gilded saloons and restaurants we are
familiar with, splendid dramshops, fitted up
specially to allure the youthful and thought-
less, but in the habitations of the wealthy. 
There, in the midst of everything indicative of 
refinement, men would get drunk! At the be-
ginning of this century, life in the city of Lon-
don was characterized by habits of intemper-
ance, that even afflicted the countenances of
the frequenters of the festive halls belonging
to the great city companies. A "mulberry 
nose" was a common name for a "respectable" 
toper—respectable because the associate of 
wealthy men. The ancient writer understood
the mischief wrought by drink. He says:
(Prov. 23.) "Who hath woe? Who hath sor-
row? Who hath contention? Who hath bab-
bling? Who hath  wounds without cause?
Who hath redness of eyes? They that tarry
long at the wine; they that go to seek mixed
wine. Look not thou upon the wine when it
is red, when it giveth its color in the cup, when
it moveth itself aright. At the last it biteth
like a serpent and stingeth like an adder." We 
see the effects of drink in the days of Solomon; 
they are similar to-day. If men could drink 
and drink until they are saturated with the 
spirit of wine, and no one should suffer but
themselves, the mischief would not be so se-
rious; but they cannot, and the first to feel its
evil effects are their children. 
	Early in the year 1830, a poor man, clad in
worn out garments, was on his knees before
that Being who "seeth in secret" and "who 
heareth and answereth prayer." The coun

[Column 2]
tenance of the poor man was not yet noble, his
expansive brow gave evidence of commanding
intellect, his form and appearance betokened
one who had "seen better days." He had mar-
ried  early in life, under most promising cir-
stances, to a lady who was a remote descendant
of the martyr Ridley; she had been a martyr
too, not by material fire at the stake, but by 
the unhallowed fires of strong drink that had
inflamed her husband's brain. She had been
the victim of neglect. Night after night her
maddened husband had left her and her babes
to perish in hopeless misery. The wife was 
now dead, their children scattered, no one to 
care for them, and they hated their father as
much as little children can hate. The wife
had been  a tender plant;  had zephyrs of sym-
pathy breathed over her, and the genial sun-
shine of a husband's love shone upon her she
might have lived. The man who had done
these wrongs now kneeled before the heavens
and implored forgiveness. He had been her 
husband, the father of her helpless babes, and 
he was the son of Mary Lindsay; he himself
the slave of inherited passions, the victim of 
the poison taint of the spirit of wine, trans-
mitted from his father! 
	At the time this poor man was stirred up to
reformation there was a remarkable movement
in Europe, thousands of persons declared the
advent of Christ was at hand; they said they
felt the influence of that spirit the prophet Joel
had declared should be poured out upon all
flesh. The spirit of prophecy, of dreams and
visions, became common among men of every
creed. Men tried to account for these feelings 
by saying: "The wind bloweth where it listeth, 
and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst 
not tell whence it cometh m'or whither it go-
eth." Amid all this excietment men were
taught to love one another, to forsake evil, es-
pecially to abstain from drink. Happily for 
the son of  Mary Lindsay, a good Samaritan
met him, and, to the praise of humanity be it
spoken, many like him aided the poor and
penitent inebriate to carry out his intentions,
to "cease to do evil and learn to do well."
	"There is a tide in the affairs of man which
taken at the flood leads on to fortune." If 
such a period had been experienced and neg-
lected before, it was not so now. The afflicted
one was permanently reclaimed; the outcase
from society became a useful and energetic
man in reclaiming others. And many were
there to whom words of mercy would flow 
from his lips in after years, as he would say, in 
grateful humility: "He who hath much for-
given loveth much." "Not unto us, not unto
us, O Lord, but unto thy name be the glory."
Such were the sentiments of Mr. Obadiah Uni-
pod, the reformed inebriate, who shunned the 
wine cup and its associations, and with what
zeal he entered into the "new movement for 
reformation" many years of successful labors
gave ample evidence to thousands.
	It is interesting for us who are familiar with
the history of our Church to trace the opera-
tions that were going on in England at the
time the Prophet Joseph was promulgating the
truth on this continent. At Preston, in 1833,
a Mr. Richard Turner began to call on people
to abstain from all intoxicating beverages.
He was met with fiery opposition by drunkards 
and those who helped to make them, the deal-
ers in strong drinks. The followers of Mr.
Turner were derided and frequently cruelly
treated; they were hissed at, and in derision


nicknamed. "Tee-totalers." But the true mis-
sionary spirit was in the man, he persevered,
thousands were reclaimed, and they in turn
became "lecturers" on temperance. In an in-
credibly short time the chief cities of England
had large organizations entirely engaged in
preaching and practicing the principles of en-
tire abstinence from all intoxicating drinks.
The effect was marvelous; public houses were
emptied, gin palaces were less thronged; as a
consequence, coffee houses and reading rooms
were filled. Freed from drink, men began to
reflect; churches, and especially chapels, were
better attended. Public lecture rooms were
opened; some of the most eloquent orators
were developed from the speakers of the Tem-
perance platforms. By the middle of the
year 1835, at the very time the organization of
the Quornm of the Twelve Apostles was ef-
fected at Kirtland, great missionary efforts
were being made in England; in London the
singular spectacle was seen of men of every
evangelical creed uniting their efforts to preach
the Gospel! A system of domiciliary visita-
tion was devised, by which the poor should be
visited and invited to attend the "means of
grace." This was done without any desire to
increase the number of converts to any par-
ticular denomination of Christians. The poor
were visited in the most wretched localities,
their wants were ministered to; tens of thou-
sands of dollars were raised to establish mis-
sions. Great good was done. The feelings of
brotherly love were extended among all reli-
gious bodies. And as a culmination to the
universal desire to put away sectional fellings,
clergymen of the Church of England and non-
conformist ministers began to labor together as
missionaries. Such was the origin of the
"London City Mission" in 1835, founded by
men of the most exalted moral character, who
could not have labored more assiduously for
the preparation of the minds of the masses to
receive the truth had they known that the
Gospel, as restored through the Prophet Jo-
seph Smith, was about to be introduced into
England by the Apostles of our Lord Jesus
Christ! Never was there such a time of re-
joicing in the churches, never were there such
meetings as those held in public assemblies,
where ministers of every denomination who
"named the name of Jesus" were recognized as
brethren; where all agreed to put away sec-
tional feelings, and imitate the Savior of man-
kind! And never was there an organization
established upon so wide a basis of Christianity,
in which its members were more vigilant, more
upon the altar of sacrifice, more humble and
prayerful, more efficient, in its early history.
And, as a sequel to the labors of Mr. Obadiah
Unipod, he was appointed as the first of the
missionaries of this important organization—
The London City Mission. This is only one
among the many good results of the Spirit of
the Lord that had spread among the nations;
in the reclaimed inebriate, now placed upon a
higher plane of usefulness, the strong moral
nature of the mother triumphed, when the
weakness inherited from the father was van-
quished.

To be Continued.


146	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SARAH CARTER.

WHO WAS IN A TRANCE SEVEN YEARS.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

CONTINUED.

	It seems to me I have anticipated a part of
my subject; I ought to have named that just
before affairs arrived at this climax with
Sarah her father died. This made quite a
change in the situation of the family; the
widow had to remove from the old homestead,

[Column 2]
as of course the eldest son became heir and
took possession. She was left in circumstances
raised above all want, but still with compara-
tively small means. She had a house built for
herself and two daughters, to which she retired,
These events somewhat aroused the dormant
faculties of Sarah, but as soon as they were
settled in their new home, all exertion ceased
on her part to arouse herself, and then com-
menced the lethargy I have forestalled in my
last section.
	Such a pitch of excitement did the affair
create, that the parochial authorities took it in
hand. Imposition and fraud, making money
by allowing her daughter to be visited, were
the stigmatizing accusations thrown upon the
poor mother. Watchers were placed day and
night to make observations, and to see that no
sustenance was given to her. The "Cambridge
Chronicle" issued a column headed "Sarah
Carter," in which the depositions of the watch-
ers were given, and remarks thereon. Nothing
was elicited that could in any way designate a
fraud. The medical men tried many experi-
ments as far as the poor mother would allow
them, one of which was croton oil; at one
time vomiting was produced, which ejected
food that had lain undigested in the stomach
for some weeks. It was also proposed to drop
flaming sealing wax upon her, but all such
torture her mother positively forbade; and
quite right too.
	A lady of title, of a very high and noble
family was a daily visitor to the house. She
was a woman of a sweet, angelic nature, and
was throughout an angel in disguise to that
afflicted family. She said to a friend: "I feel
there is no deception; I myself, when sitting
quietly by her bed, and watching her sleeping
form alone, have tried little strategems upon
her, such as suddenly striking her face or
hands with my pocket handkerchief, but I
never saw the least start, or even a thrill, pass
over her, no more than if I had struck a
corpse."
	At last the Faculty gave in and owned it
was "one of their opprobriums!" They con-
fessed that it appeared to them that "the finger
of God was upon her," and so they retired.
Doctor Ficklin would often call in, and the
poor mother seemed to like to see him, for he
was ever kind and ever a gentleman; he would
be permitted to walk into that silent room and
view the sleeping girl. Lady Godolphin never
forsook the mother. Every week, when not at
her town residence, might be seen her beautiful
equipage standing at Mrs. Carter's gate, while
she was talking to and comforting her, and al-
ways sitting some little time bythe somnambula I
who lay sleeping calm as a summer morning,
and really growing beautiful and etherealized
by her marvelous somnambulism. I first saw
her when she had lain in that state about three
or four years. How well I remember the visit
and the feeling of awe with which I stood at
the foot of the bed. I was very young then
and had never looked but on one corpse; this
appeared to me as the second. The house-
keeper of our family accompanied me; she was
one who knew nothing about nerves, or what
is commonly defined fine feelings, though by
no means deficient in humanity. She at once
made friends with Mrs. Carter, and I did what
I could to assure her of my sympathy by hold-
ing her hand with a warm pressure in mine for
some minutes; and I believe she understood
me, for from that time her door was ever open
to me, when she had closed it to all except
those she knew were her friends, and I respect-
ed her for it, and she seemed to know it. A
few questions were asked by my companion, in
a low voice, and they were answered in the
same. I saw her no more until she awoke
from her long slumber, which happened at the
end of seven years!!
	Lady Godolphin was sitting by the bedside,

[Column 3]
when she observed the eyelids of the girl
slightly tremble, and the body gently show
signs of returning animation. Lady G. called
gently and said: "Mrs. Carter, your daughter
is waking!" Judge the electric shock to the
two ladies, both fond, devoted mothers.
	From that time life and animation returned
slowly, but surely; her mind, weak as that of
an infant, her body helpless—but both seemed
to grow and expand, like the mind of a child,
until she was in the full possession of her men-
tal faculties. She still continued her reclining
position, the lower limbs retaining great weak-
ness and inertia; at last she was daily lifted
from her bed to a sofa placed beside it; her
mother being her sole nurse, and performing
all those offices, with assiduous and loving de-
votion; indeed, it appeared that she became to
her a "consecrated shrine," whereon she ex-
pended her maternal worship; and Sarah be-
came her preacher and her teacher, her Bishop
and her Cardinal! and though the clergyman
of the village visited her occasionally, I am
not sure that she allowed him to see her daugh-
ter; I feel sure she made him feel that she tol-
erated him merely as one to whom custom had
rendered courtesy, and not as being of any as-
sistance or edification to her or her household!
	That child that I portrayed in the little
quaint dress must surely have had the germs
of a lady in her little form, for she developed
from her sleep into a polished lady. She ap-
peared a queen holding her levee, calm, cour-
teous and polite to all! Yes, and all felt they
were in the presence of a being whose life was
something apart from common every day life.
The grand and the noble that visited her felt
she was their peer; and with the tact of genuine
nobility, at once yielded to her the palm, and
stooped their crest to her as one ennobled by
affliction that was so unique that all put the
finger on the lip, and waited for the few words
that issued from her mouth. What was there
in that simple girl, in her simple, homely room,
her simple white wrapper, all so entirely un-
ruffled that the beholder marveled how the
robing had ever been accomplished. Every-
thing about her was remarkable! at no moment
did it seem she could be taken unprepared; her
pillows like a heap of snow for whiteness, no
furbelows about them, or any pretentions to
them; her dress the same, the simple plaited
frill passing round the neck and down the
bosom of the wrapper, with the wrists match-
ing; this was all the ornamental trimming. A
cap—yes, that cap, let me not forget it; Titian
would not have forgotten it, he would have
made that whole form a Madonna, that would
have filled his studio with an admiring crowd
The cap, with a broad plaited frill, that sat
round that pure face like a little bonnet, and
the rich, dark hair banded over the pure broad
white forehead completed the costume. She
ever sat in her bed in a reclining position, her
hands lapping over each other, and generally
a little gem of a book, a gift of course; or a
letter just received, or a choice bouquet, sent by
some (elegant, loving heart, lay close by them.
The bed pure and white as "unsunned snow,"
not a spot or wrinkle ever upon it. Here, to
me, was ever the mystery; but so it was. A
chair always placed by the right side of the bed
for the choice visitor—seldom more than one
was admitted at one time. As the visitor ap-
proached, the right hand would be gently, ex-
tended, a smile of welcome, and you were in
the presence of Sarah Carter.

To be Continued.


MR. Cross, husband of George Eliot, de-
ceased, is preparing a biography of the life and
works of that eminent woman. There will no
doubt be a great demand for the book, as so
little is known of this acknowledged genius of
the nineteenth century.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FIFTY YEARS TO-DAY.

A Congratulation to Elizabeth Knight Johnson, on
the Fiftieth Anniversary of her Baptism, by Hyrum
Smith, Nov. 1st 1830, into the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints,at Colesville,Broom Co. N. Y.—she be-
ing the youngest member in the Church at that time. She
was the daughter of Joseph,and Polly Knight,and went up
in the first Company to Jackson Co. Mo. in 1831, her
brother Newel Knight presiding.

Tell it gratefully, and gladly—
	Proudly as you may—
That you've fought beneath truth's banner
	Fifty years to-day.

Oh! if e'er I envy any,
	'Tis the favored few
Blest to know our martyr'd Prophet,
	And Brother Hyrum too.

Oft I've found myself regretting—
	That their work was done;
That their lives were near their setting,
	Just as mine begun.

Nor fanaticism is it,
	Thus to hold him bear,
Whom the angels loved to visit—
	Joseph Smith "The Seer."

Unborn millions shall revere him,
	As "The Prophet" true;
Of the grandest dispensation,
	That the world e'er knew.

All the truths his life-blood sanctioned,
	Are so glad and free;
'Tis not strange that you have loved them,
	Half a century.

Fifty years! it seems a life-time:
	Thought is almost dumb,
Retrospecting, comprehending--
	All you've overcome.

Prejudice and persecution,
	Mobbings drivings too;
All the consequent privation,
	That the saints passed through.

Hunted down by priests and people,
	Worn by ceaseless strife,
Fearing not the red man's nature,
	Preying peace and life.

Trustfully the saints toiled hither,
	True to heaven's command;
But for faith, not knowing whither:
	Led by God's right hand;
To these then far distant valleys,
	Joseph's promised land.

When their weary journey ended,
	Dreary was their lot;
Scant supplies and isolation.
	Home a desert spot;
But these saints had faith and freedom,
	And they murmured not.

Trackless plains and bridgeless rivers,
	Mountains towering high;
Which these exiles crossed was nothing--
	To their childrens cry,
Even for Bread. Oh! crowning ordeal,
	Yet relief was nigh.

Yes you've had a long experience:
	Hard enough indeed.
And you've learned that God is equal—
	To our greatest need.
Constancy to right must merit,
	Future joy and gain;
Yet you may be glad you cannot—
	Live your life again.

Fifty years it tells its story,
	More than lengthy speech:
Doubt I not, Celestial glory—
	Is within your reach.
Few there are on earth remaining—
	Who can truly say,
I have labored in God's kingdom—
	Fifty years to-day.

	EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City, Nov. 1st. 1880.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.
[CONTINUED.]

	In our last chapter we referred to the Log
Row where Sister Eliza spent her first few
years in the valley, after leaving the Fort when
Pres. Young returned in 1848. These were
the primitive times, as we often term them,
when every woman made her own soap and
candles, carded and spun the wool, dyed the
yarn, knit the stockings, and many even wove
and afterwards cut and made the material into
clothing. Carpets of homemade yarn, dyed
in the gayest colors, were quite the rage, and
in these things Sister Eliza also excelled. She
took an interest in all these affairs, and her
patterns in dress goods and carpets of home-
manufacture were much sought after by others.
	In 1854-5 the Lion House, one of President
Young's family residences, was completed, and
she has ever since resided there. It is rather a
peculiar style of building, quaint in architec-
ture, and reminds one more of an age now
past, than of modern times. It was some
years after the family moved into the new
home before the domestic spinning, dyeing and
weaving were dispensed with. Sister Eliza to-
day has a homemade yarn carpet in a very
good state of preservation, and other articles
manufactured by her own hands. Her history
is a complete contradiction of the illusion so
current in the world that literary women, or
blue-stockings, are never domestic, or industri-
ous and successful as housewives. True, this
is sometimes the case, but this remarkable wo-
man possesses the happy combination of do-
mestic and literary ability. At the present
time, when arrived at the age where most wo-
men lay aside all the cares and duties of do-
mestic labor, she does her own work, runs her
own errands, and waits upon company after
the "old school" style, in addition to all her
public and literary labors. At Conferences
she entertains her friends from the country,
never complaining of weariness, and strangers
are likely to make informal calls uppn her at
any time; and she is always ready, never non-
plussed.
	It would be difficult to find a woman any-
where like Sister Eliza, combining so many
qualifications which fit her for active life, and
yet in reality possessing such an abundance of
spiritual vigor.
	In 1869, Pres. Young having observed the
inclination among the people to follow after
the follies and fashions of the world, leading
women more especially into habits of frivolity
and extravagance, called upon Sister Eliza
and one or two other ladies to lead out in an
organization for the purpose of retrenchment
in dress and table expenditure. Accordingly,
meetings were called, the subject discussed,
and an association formed with a presiding
board of seven officers;meetings were appoint-
ed to be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Hall, that being a central and suitable place.
These meetings havenever been discontinued,
but are still held regularly in the same place
and at the same hour, and the same ladies offi-
ciate as officers, with one exception, that of
Sister Margaret T. Smoot, who moved to Provo
after the first few years, when Sister Elizabeth
Howard was chosen to fill the vacancy. In
these assemblies from time to time much in-
struction of the best and highest quality has
been dispensed to the sisters.
	Shortly after this Retrenchment Association
was organized, Pres. Young called upon Sister
Eliza to aidhim in efforting an organization of
young ladies, commencing with his own daugh-
ters, which she was quite competent to do. She
framed a set of resolutions for the President's
approval, which set forth the object of the as-
esociation in appropriate words, and gave the

[Column 2]
members a good idea of the work and progress
that would be expected of them in an organ-
ized capacity. All this was very new, and ex-
cited ridicule, as all innovations do at first. It
was hard work for the young ladies to come
out from their companions and take an active
part in public meetings. Those who persevered
in doing so were set down as strongminded,
over-religious, &c.; but Sister Eliza stimulated
and encouraged them, and from time to time
organizations were formed in the various wards
and extended thence into the settlements; the
organizations were designated Retrenchment
Associations, the same as the one formed by
the older sisters, and to distinguish between
the two, one was called the Senior and the
other the Junior Retrenchment Association.
This work of organizing the young ladies in
all parts of the Territory was a most original
plan; never had such a thing been heard of
before. Sister Eliza from the first seemed to
perfectly comprehend the nature of the task
assigned her, and again her executive ability
became apparent. To accomplish a labor of
this kind requires method in its execution, and
to select the proper material for the work one
need be possessed of a knowledge of human
nature, keen and deep, and then the planning
and arranging of the order of discipline to be
pursued to effect the desired result, calls forth
all the tact and energy of character that can
be exercised upon the subject. It has been a
wonderful acquisition to all the other means of
improvement, this spiritual and moral training
of the young in these organized societies. To
be sure, by common consent the name Junior
Retrenchment has since been changed to Mu-
tual Improvement Associations, but the object
and spirit of the work remains the same. Sis-
ter Eliza may well rejoice in the great work of
improvement among the young sisters, although
there are many who have never as yet recog-
nized it, or joined in the labor.
	The reader will readily perceive that Sister
Eliza had much public speaking to do, which
called her out from home to go here and there,
in "fair or foul weather," but she had the mis-
sion to fill, and she was endowed with the spirit
and power essential to its performance. I
doubt if any other woman has accomplished so
much in organizing and in public speaking
among women. Subsequently Sister Eliza took
a journey to the Holy Land, leaving Salt Lake
City October 26, 1872, her brother, Apostle
Lorenzo Snow, meeting her in Ogden; in New
York they joined Pres. George A. Smith and
party, who had left Salt Lake City on the 16th.
Sister Eliza endured the fatigue of traveling
as well and even better than some younger
ones of the party. The company took the
Steamer Minnesota for Liverpool on the 6th of
November. Her letters written while at sea
are as full of vigor as at any other time, and
Pres. George A. Smith, writing on board ship,
says: "Miss E. R. Snow has stood the voyage
and sea-sickness so far as well as any of us,
and has given us a good deal of intellectual
enjoyment. She wrote a poem at sea, "Cross-
ingthe Atlantic," which our readers will find
in the "Correspondence of Palestine Tourists."
We give a verse or two descriptive of the storm
on the Atlantic.

Anon all Neptune's furies
	Are on the steamer's path,
We mount the deck to wintess
	The ocean in its wrath.

The scene! What pen can write it?
	What pencil's art could show
The wild, terrific grandeur
	Which reigns around us now.

The waving, surging waters
	Like battle armor clash;
Tumultuous waves upheaving,
	With foaming fury dash.

The steamer mounts the billows,
	Then dips the space below;
And bravely presses onward,
	Tho' reeling to and fro.

[To be Continued.]


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published  semi-monthly,  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah
Terms:  One copy one year, $2. 00: one copy six months
$1.00  Ten  copies  for  the  price  of  nine.  Advertising
rates:  Each square,  ten  lines  of  nonparell  space, one
time,  $2.50:  per  month, $3. 00.  A liberal discount  to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower  West  Room of  the  Council
House,  South  Temple  Street.   Business  hours  from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT  LAKE  CITY,	MARCH 1, 1881.


[Column 1]
	SELF-MADE  WOMEN.

	How little we hear of self-made women!  Self-
made  men  is  a  term in common use, very; but
the other is uncommon, a phrase seldom heard;
in fact, we do not remember having heard it all,
and flatter  ourself  it  is  rather an  original title.
Self-made women exist, nevertheless.  We know
of some  fully  entitled  to  the  appellation, and
have  heard  of  others,  elsewhere, whose  lives
were  worthy  of record  in  the  annals  of their 
country.  It is pretty generally understood that
woman is a dependent sort of creature, and does
comparatively little for herself in any positive
manner;  man leads and woman follows, he toils
and she partakes of the fruits of his labors.  We
have  heard  all  our  life  long  of  self-sacrificing
women—that  phrase  is  hackneyed, to  say  the
least, and self-made women  is pleasant, if only
as a  kind  of relief.  The  Scripture  says, "Obe-
dience is better than sacrifice," but most women
combine  in  their  character  both  obedience  and
sacrifice of self.  History tells us very little about
women; judging from its pages, one  would sup-
pose  their  lives  were  insignificant  and  their
opinions  worthless.  Now  and  then  one  more
favored than others  of her  sex, figures  in  con-
nection  with  a  lover,  or  husband,  but  rarely
alone,  and  evidently the attention of the writer
of history has been  to  leave women  out.  And
yet  women  are  patriotic  in  their natures, and
some  of  them have braved  all  resistance to ac-
complish good; instance, Joan of Arc.  Volumes
of unwritten history yet remain, the sequel to
the written lives of brave and heroic men.  But
although  the  historians  of the past have  been
neglectful of woman, and  it  is  the  exception if 
she be mentioned at all;  yet the future will deal
more  generously with womankind, and  the his-
torian  of the  present  age  will  find it very em-
barrassing to ignore woman in the records of the 
nineteenth  century.  We  may  say,  and  with
propriety, that there is a class of  women on the 
earth now, whose lives and labors are likely to be
recognized even  by the average historian.  Wo-
man has really undertaken  to do her own work,
to  make  her  own  record, in  one sense, and to
stand as an individual representative of herself
and a type  of her  class; and yet  not  in  opposi-
tion  to  man,  but in intelligent harmony.   "The
woman  is  not  without  the man, nor the man
without the woman in the Lord."  A great change
has  come  over woman in this age, and man be-
gins to acknowledge, in a sort of indefinite way,
her  individuality and power of active thought.
There is less  of  the blind idolatry and man wor-
ship and more vivid expression given to woman's 
ideal and real love, than in the days we speak of
as  man's  chivarlry  and  woman's  self-denial.
Some  aver  that  the subtle  charm  of woman's 
worship  is lost, and in its  place a tangible real-
ism has sprung up, less attractive and calculated

[Column 2]
to  rob  woman  of  that  indefinable  mysticism
which has for centuries floated round her like an
evanescent incense to man, and yet something
unreal,  for  she  proved  not  exactly  what  she
seemed.  Now, man  approaches  her as a being
of understanding, one who has pronounced opin-
ions of her  own, and who is free  to  choose, if 
need be, her own vocation, and can, when need-
ful, "eat her  own  bread  and wear  her  own  ap-
parel."
	Possibly man  has  driven woman  to  this ex-
tremity, by the want of consideration.  Albeit
they complain sometimes bitterly  of the women
who want some  of  the  situations  and  advan-
tages  once a clear field for  the lords of creation,
and  wonder why the sex are not content to oc-
cupy their former position as erst in  the days of
their grandmothers.  There is not quite so much
credit due women for the exertions made from 
necessity, but after all, there  is abundant  proof
that they are mentally and morally equal to the
occasion, when they defend  their position, as in
social and political  life some  of  them  are doing 
everywhere to-day.
	Self-made women is a powerful term.  It  tells
its own story, of struggles  against  fearful odds,
with  unpropitious  circumstances, and  a  lack of
the means  of education  and  cultivation.  But
on  the  other  hand, it  bespeaks  self-help, self-
denial, patient hopefulness and persistent deter-
mination.    How,  when  fortune  frowned  and
friends  were  lacking,  the  brave  heart  never
quailed nor shrank from hardship, but  pressed
onward in the path of achievement,  regardless
of ridicule  or  hindrances; and  faced  the  great
world that has set itself so hard and firm against
the  woman  who  makes  her  own  way, unless
she arrives at a pinnacle of fame, then the same
world is ready to worship at her shrine.  How
many besetments  lie  in  her  path, how thickly
is it strewn with  thorns and briers, and oh, how
many sharp and cruel rocks lie scattered in the
pathway she must tread alone!   Here and there
a  flower, a  rill, a  bird  note, or  a  soft  fanning
zephry, but all the wealth and sweetness blooms
in the gardens of cultivation, from which she is
barred  until  she  can  open  the  gates  herself.
But much has been done to make education at-
tainable for women, who hunger for knowledge,
and  to  lift  all  women  to a higher view of life.
A new era has been ushered in, mainly through
the  exertions  of self-made  women, acted  upon
by an influence many comprehend not, which is
working  for  their  redemption  from  under  the
curse, and yet a vast amount of narrow-minded-
ness  and  prejudice  still remains to be wrestled
with, and  it  requires almost superhuman cour-
age  and  endurance, and  workful  waiting, with
an earnest and implicit faith in God,  Who hears
and answers prayer.  Self-made women!  How
grandly significant is the title  of strength and
power in the true dignity of her character.


[Column 1]
﻿HOME AFFAIRS.

	RELIEF Society blanks at the Deseret News
Office.
	"LIFE Incidents," by Helen Mar Whitney,
also "Jesse Burns" are crowded out of this issue,
but will appear in our next number.
	THE Secretaries of Relief Societies in Salt
Lake Stake are requested to send in reports from
October last to March 6th, as the Stake Secretary
wishes to compile them for the April Confer-
ence.
	OFFICERS of Primary Associations in the Ter-
ritory and throughout the Stakes of Zion, are
expected to report the same as R. S. and Y. L.
M. I. A. and direct their communications to
Lillie Freeze, Secretary of Central Board P. A

[Column 2]
	THE second edition of Primary Hymn Books,
edited by Eliza R. Snow, are now ready for sale.
Orders from the country which have been lay-
ing over will now be attended to promptly. For
sale at this office, Deseret News and Juvenile
Instructor. The ready sale of the first edition is
the best recommendation the book could have.
	A PLEASING concert was given in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, Thursday evening,
Feb. 24, for the benefit of the Sunday School.
The programme conisted of songs, duets, quar-
tets, recitations, instrumental music, &c., all of
which were carefully selected and well rendered,
and the affair was altogether a successful one.

	THE Conference of Relief Societies, Y. L. M
I. A. and Primary Associations of Salt Lake
Stake, will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms on Friday and Saturday, March 18 and
19. It is earnestly requested by the presiding
sisters of these organizations that there be a full
attendance, and that all reports be sent in be-
forehand.

	AN entertainment will be given in the Social
Hall for the benefit of the 18th Ward Sunday
School, on Friday evening, March 11., consisting
of a laughable farce, entitled "My wife's Bon-
net," and the popular operetta "A Capital Joke."
Edith Clawson, Soprano; Louie Wells, Contral-
to; H. G. Whitney, Tenor; J. D. Spencer, Bass.
It will be a fine entertainment.

	THE Stake Secretaries of Y. L. M. I. A. are
requested by order of the President Central Board,
Mrs. E. S. Taylor, to forward full reports from
date of organization, where none have been giv-
en, to October last, and also reports from October
[-]past to March 6th of the present year. Will sec-
retaries please govern themselves accordingly,
and send in the reports in time for the coming
Conference, March 19, to Louie Wells, Secretary
Central Board Y. L. M. I. A.

	THE "Evening News," published in Phila-
delphia, makes a notice, under the heading of
"Youthful Orators," of an entertainment given
by the National School of Elocution and Ora-
tory, in the halls of the Institution, Monday
evening, Feb. 7, in which favorable mention is
made of Miss Martha Paul Hughes, of this city,
a recent graduate of Ann Arbor University with
the title M. D. She gave the selection "Beauti-
ful Snow," it is said, with scholarly ability.

	ON Friday evening, March 4, the day of the
inauguration, the tragedy of Macbeth will be
performed in the Theatre in this city, for the
benefit of David McKenzie, the popular and fa-
vorite star actor, who was quite the rage when
he followed the profession. Of course it will be
a success in the rendering of Macbeth by Mr.
McKenzie; and no doubt Miss Nellie Colebrook,
whose talent for the stage is well known will
enact Lady Macbeth in a natural and easy man-
ner. Everybody should patronize the Theatre
on the 4th of March. Go and see McKenzie as
Macbeth.

	SATURDAY evening, Feb. 19, the public were
treated to a fine entertainment of readings in
the Theatre, by Miss Alice Hamill, Miss Ada
Dwyer and Mr. Harry Hamill. Miss Alice
Hamill is a finished reader, so far as scholarly
ability is concerned, and she has also the genius
which is rendered meritorious by cultivation.
Miss Ada Dwyer has been reared in Utah, and
of course the people here naturally take a great
interest in her improvement. She quite exceed-
ed the expectations of her friends, who, knowing
how short a time she had been studying the
science of elocution, were surprised to see how
well she rendered her parts. She has a fresh
and vivacious manner, and a very pleasing, rich
voice. She did best (we think) in "A little Girl's
Views of Life in a Hotel" and in "Christmas at


the Quarters," though she certainly did very
well in all. We congratulate Miss Ada on her
success in her debut before a Salt Lake audience.
She has proven she has talent and ability for
the profession she has chosen; by patient appli-
cation and persistent study she may rise to the
supreme height of excellence in the art of read-
ing, which is a most happy attainment.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 149


[Column 1]
ONE WOMAN'S THOUGHTS ON THE
SUBJECT.

	"Wherefore, by their fruits ye shall know
them."—Matt., vii, 6.

	These words of our Savior, given to his disci-
ples when he was upon the earth, by which they
might know men, are just as good to-day, for
the Latter-day Saints to be guided by, as they
were for the former day Saints eighteen hundred
years ago. Judging by this rule the actions of
the "Liberal Party," their fruits are very appar-
ent as persecutors of the Saints. What other
motive could Gov. Murray have had, in giving
the certificate of election to Mr. Campbell, and
then fleeing the country? His guilty conscience
needed no accusing (if he has any conscience it
must be very small); if he had heaped such an
indignity upon any other people, he well knew
what the result would be. The words of the
proverb are very significant in this case, for
"The wicked fleeth when no man pursueth."
The Latter-day Saints are not the people to take
the law in their own hands to redress their
wrongs, but leave all things in the hands of a
just God, Who has said, "Vengeance is mine
and I will repay." The Latter-day Saints can
wait for that time to come, as it surely will
come, when "the sinners in Zion will tremble,
and fearfulness will surprise the hypocrite."
Then the Lord "will laugh at their calamity and
mock when their fear cometh."
	But to return to the subject. Who is A. G.
Campbell? How long has he been in the coun-
try? How much correct information has he ob-
tained about the people called "Mormons," whom
he is so anxious to represent in Congress? Not
much, I think, by the company he keeps. The
first I heard of him was his jumping a mining
claim, and losing the case in Court. The next I
hear, he is trying to usurp the place of Delegate
Cannon. And to dishonesty he adds falsehood
and misrepresentation, giving as an excuse for
his failure in securing the election numerically,
the "women elected Mr. Cannon." Now, this
is untrue. Mr. Cannon was not dependent on
the women for his election, although many wo-
men did give him their votes, and would have
been proud (if Mr. Campbell's assertion were
true) of the privilege of sending an honorable
gentleman to represent them in the Congress of
the nation.
	But how is it with poor Mr. Campbell? I am
sure he is to be pitied, if out of so large a num-
ber of votes as 1,357, to 18,578, that he should
be entirely forgotten by the ladies! It is not a
very good position to be out of favor with the
women. Surely some one will write him a let-
ter of condolence, to quiet his nerves, after such
a signal defeat, and that by women. He must
have felt very much relieved after giving ex-
pression to his feelings, accusing the women of
doing the evil! Always the same story given
by unprincipled men—if there is anything
wrong "the women did it." But there is no
wrong. The votes of women as good as those of
men, and they are as good and honorable citi-
zens as men are.
	The Mormon women are not the oppressed,
down-trodden women they are represented to be
by their enemies, but high-minded and intelli-
gent women who can think and act for them-
selves, and have as much liberty to give expres-
sion to their thoughts and feelings as women of
any other community. And I know, for one,
that the "Liberal Party" may contest Delegate
Cannon's seat in Congress for years to come, as
they have in the years that are passed, so long
as the Lord wishes him to remain in the halls
of the nation, they will fail in their attempts to
remove him. If the time comes that the nation
is not worthy of having an Apostle in their
midst, then the Lord will suffer him to be re-
moved,and not till then. And why should they
seek to remove him? What has he done? Why,
say his righteous opponents, "He has more
wives than one!" Well, if he has, his wives
have the most implicit confidence in his faith-
fulness to them; they can trust him in Wash-
ington, or in any other place, for years, if need
be, and feel perfectly satisfied, knowing he would

[Column 2]
return to them as true to his marriage covenants
as when he left them. If all the fathers, hus-
bands and sons of monogamic families commit-
ted no greates crime, nor did anything more to
disgrace themselves than Mr. Cannon has in
marrying, methinks the Millennium would soon
be ushered in, and "every man in every place
would meet a brother and a friend." But alas!
for fallen humanity, that time is not yet.
Now, I think it would be much more sensible
for Mr. Cannon's righteous opponents, if they
would petition Congress to pass a law for the
suppression of houses of prostitution and ill-
fame, which are so degrading to womankind and
an open disgrace to the nation. Yet they are
fostered and supported by men in high social
circles, who lift up their hands in holy horror
that the Mormons marry women and make
them honorable wives, and judging by the ac-
tions of men, they would say to Mr. Cannon,
have as many women as you please, but don't
marry them; then we can be hale fellows well
met, and you will be a fit representative to Con-
gress.
	The women are now making a great noise
about polygamy. It seems to me that the wo-
men of the nation would be engaged in a much
better cause if they would get up petitions to
Congress for the suppression of real evils in their
midst, and use all their influence to elevate their
sex from the degradation that men have placed
them in. "By their fruits ye shall know them."
								M. I. H.


[Column 1]
QUESTIONS.

	Pardon me if I ask why the Governor of Idaho
is so much alarmed for the safety of this govern-
ment, as we learn from his speech before the 
Legislature of that Territory? He seems to
think that our practices are so vile and so much
out of character, that we should be stricken
from civilized society, lest we contaminate the
people and cause the destruction of the whole
human race. The reason why he thinks so is
because he has only weighed the subject on one
side of the question. Now, let me ask, does he
fear that the systems built up according to the
best abilities of the men of the world will crum-
ble away? Because the God of heaven will set
up a kingdom that will never be thrown down
or given to another people. And why? For this
reason: our Heavenly Father is wiser than man.
His designs are broader and more perfect in
every sense of the word, and will achieve the
greatest good for his children. Is it not said in
holy writ, that he made of one blood all the na-
tions of the earth? Accordingly, there must be
a germ of the Deity in each and every bosom,
which, if cultivated and developed, will enable
us to see and understand his designs and pur-
poses concerning us. Notice how fast a child
learns from observation the first three years of
its life, and later if the germ is kept pure. But
after the tempter begins to sow seeds of envy,
hatred, malice and revenge, then begins the
warfare.
	But God sent His Son Jesus to teach us a dif-
ferent lesson—the lesson of love, which is an at-
tribute of the Deity, for God is love. But the
opposite spirit is from the tempter, and the seeds
he sows will produce bitter weeds, which will
choke and destroy the germ, If I may use so
rough a term. Let us remember our Father's
laws, given by Jesus, the Savior of the world.
Then ask who can love his neighbor as himself?
And why not? Is it not because the parents are
selfish before the children, or otherwise the force
of example, selfish until it seems impossible to
think of anything else? Who is there that can
love his neighbor as himself? Does this not
show that the germ has not been cultivated?
But bitter weeds have been permitted to grow
and produce evil fruits, to that degree that they
begin to wonder why they have been born in
such a world as this. It seems that love, and
the fruits of love, such as should bind the hu-
man family together have been choked out of
existence.
	Would we not rather welcome the kingdom of 
God, with its pure laws, to govern and produce
"peace on earth and good will to men," which
was the song of the angel at the birth of our
Savior—He who is to reign our king. This king-
dom, when established, will p[-]oduce a reign of
peace. Is it strange that the Governor at Idaho
should fear and tremble when such a kingdom
is to be established upon the earth? No, verily
no! People of sound minds and pure principles
will readily adhere to such laws, and the frail
governments made by mortal man will be weak-
ened and go down, for want of sound minds to
sustain them. This is all they need fear, for

[Column 2]
there is no warfare greater than to keep the gar-
den of the mind free from those weeds which
the tempter is always on hand and ready to sow,
and if permitted to grow will baffle the mind of
its possessor, and destroy his or her usefulness in
the world. But you will ask who knows all this?
I will tell you. They are those who have re-
pented of all their sins and been baptized for the 
remission of them, which is the teaching of our 
great Lawgiver, Jesus Christ. Then they re-
ceive the Holy Ghost, the Comforter, to take
lead of their minds and enlighten them upon all
things pertaining to this life. My earnest desire
for the Governor of Idaho is and shall be that he
may learn to love his neighbor as himself, and
deal justly with all, remembering that the mea-
sure he may mete out will in return be meted to
him again. Self-government will be requisite.
Is any one fit to govern who cannot govern him-
self? King Solomon's words are, "He who rul-
eth his own spirit is greater than he that taketh
a city." He of course is a general, especially if
he can love those who hate him and pray for
those who despitefully use and persecute him.
Such are the laws given to us to fit and qualify
us for the kingdom of God, and cannot be accom-
plished without the assistance of the Holy Spirit,
which we need daily, and that we may possess
it is the earnest prayer of
	Your friend,
	M. E. KIMBALL.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 18, 1881.


FAREWELL SURPRISE.

	On the 16th day of February, 1881, a quiet and
pleasant surprise party took place at the resi-
dence of the late Jacob Peart, of Farmer's
Ward, held as a farewell parting of the family,
owing to their expected removal into the coun-
try. This party was arranged by the sisters of
the Relief Society of this ward, thus showing
their kind feelings for the sisters who are about
to leave them.
	The party was a very appropriate one on such
an occasion. The ladies were greatly surprised,
but pleasantly received the guests—in all a happy
and jolly party. Expressions of [-]ove and good
feelings for one another were manifested at the
meeting. A substantial dinner was set in order,
the surprised and surprisers enjoyed themselves
greatly. After dinner, a few hours elapsed in
friendly jokes and conversation making the time
agreeable to all. After which the parties dis-
persed to their respective homes, leaving their
kind feelings and blessings with the family, who
in return wish to thank and bless the sisters of
Farmer's Ward.
						EMMA WOODRUFF.


BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	Feb. 9, the sisters of the Relief Society in
Payson, held a party in commemoration of Pa-
triarch Hyrum Smith, under the able manage-
ment of Pres. Jane B. Simons and Counselors
Agnes Douglas and Mary Morse. At half past
six p. m., the sisters, with their husbands, as-
sembled in the City Hall. After singing, prayer
was offered up by Counselor David Sant. Sing-
ing, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet."
	An interesting speech was then delivered by
Elder I. M. Coombs, referring to the many inci-
dents in the life of Hyrum Smith. Dancing by
the company. Then followed a recitation by H.
Hamill (son of Prof. Hamill), reading, Prof. J.
L. Townsend, and a song by James Reece, when
intermission for a short time was taken. Justice
was done to the viands prepared by way of a
picnic, after which a song by John Quigly.
Dancing was then resumed. Speeches by
Bishop J. S. Tanner and Counselor D. Sant, who
read the names of the eight witnesses to the au-
thenticity of the Book of Mormon, and Henry
Jacobs, who was personally acquainted with the
Prophet and Patriarch. Songs then followed by
James Reece, George Hancock and S. E. Daniels.
Sen. Pres. Jane Simons briefly tendered thanks
to the company for their presence, and to all
who had contributed to the evening's entertain-
ment; also said that she was personally ac-
quainted with Joseph and Hyrum Smith. "The
Resurrection Day," composed by Wm. Clayton,
was then sung by the assembly.
						M. A. HARDY, Sec'y.


A BRONZE statue of Dante has been placed
in the Square of the Rue des Ecoles, Paris.


150	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	Minutes of the Primary Association of the
10th Ward, held Jan, 28, 1881, President Jane
McLean presiding. Opened by singing "Jo-
seph Smith's first prayer." Prayer by Coun.
Rose Chandler. Singing, "Dare to do right."
Roll called; seventy-eight members present.
Minutes of the previous meeting read and ap-
proved; after which Maria Badley read part of
the 39th chapter of Genesis. Pres. McLean
read a portion of the 2d chapter of the first
book of Nephi. Six little girls recited a
dialogue entitled "First Principles of the Gos-
pel." Arthur Woods and George Badley re-
cited a dialogue, "Two boys who met on the
street." Song by Joseph Paul. Recitation by
Edith Ashman. The children repeated the
Articles of Faith in concert. Oscar Nystrum
repeated the Lord's Prayer. The children
sang "In our lovely Deseret."
	Coun. Libbie Edmonds said we have had a
very good meeting to-day. Hoped there were
no little boys who belonged to the Primary
who smoked tobacco or used profane language.
The angels take notes of all we say and do.
The judgments of the Lord will be upon those
that do wickedly. I am pleased to see so many
here, but if all the little boys that are on the
streets would come to these meetings, I think
they would not use tobacco or speak bad words
so much as they do. I pray God to bless you
all. Amen.
	Pres. McLean then asked the children who
organized them, and they answered, Sister E.
B. Wells. Next, what are these meetings for?
Improvement; to learn the ways of God, that
we may be saved in the kingdom of heaven.
What is Faith? One little girl gave an exam-
ple of faith.
	Meeting adjourned for one week. Singing,
"Praise to the man who communed with Je-
hovah." Prayer by Coun. Libbie Edmonds.


[Column 1]
DEPUTATION TO MR. MASON M. P.

	On Thursday, January 20th, a deputation of
members representing the various branches of
the National Society for Woman's Suffrage
waited upon Mr. Hugh Mason, M. P. for Ash-
ton-under-Lyne, at his apartments in Fenton's
Hotel, to ask him to accept the leadership of
the movement in the House of Commons, in
the place of Mr. Leonard Courtney, who has
accepted office in the Government. Repres-
entatives were present from the various com-
mittees in all parts of the kingdom, and
amongst the ladies who met Mr. Hugh Mason
at Fenton's Hotel, St. Jame's-street, London,
were Miss Becker, Mrs. Dumcan M'Laren, Miss
Davenport Hill, Mrs. Hoggan, M. D., Miss C.
A. Biggs, Mrs. Lindsay from Belfast, Mrs.
Cameron from Glasgow, Mrs. Edward Parker
of Dundee, Mrs. Lucas, Miss Downing, the Vis-
countess Harberton, Miss Babb, Mrs. Ashton
Dilke, Mrs. Charle M'Laren, Miss Thornbury,
Mrs. M'Donald, &c. Amongst the gentlemen
present interested in the movement were Mr.
Thomasson, M. P. for Bolton, Dr. Cameron, M.
P. for Glasgow, Mr. S. Morley, M. P. for Bris-
tol, and Sir David Wedderburn, M. P.
	Mr. THOMASSON, M. P., who introduced the
deputation, said that no doubt many of those
present were already well known to Mr. Ma-
son. He did not think that under the circum-
stances he need say anything beyond that he
heartily concurred in the object which the de-
putation had in view. (Applause.)
	Miss BECKER said that on behalf of the
Manchester Committee she had been unani-
mously deputed to formally invite Mr. Mason
to accept the leadership of the woman's suff-
rage movement. She had had an opportunity of
explaining the views of the association to Mr.

[Column 2]Mason, and she would therefore, leave it with
the representatives of the other branches con-
nected with the society to lay their views be-
fore him. (Hear, hear.)	*	*	*
	Mr. HUGH MASON, M. P., in reply: Miss
Becker, ladies, and gentlemen,—Since my
name has been mentioned as a member of Par-
liament who is likely to take up this question
which Mr Leonard Courtney had in hand dur-
ing the last two or three years, I have received
from one or more of my intelligent constituents
at Ashton-under-Lyne what I may call a slap in
the face for having ventured to give any kind of
promise that I would take up this question. I
have been told that, judging from what has
hitherto taken place in Ashton-under-Lyne, I
would lose my seat if women were admitted to
the franchise. In that town, I am informed,
there have been hundreds of women on the
burgess list, and it has been found that they
mainly vote for the Tories; therefore. I am
further informed, they would not vote for me
if they were enfranchised parliamentarily.
My answer was very prompt and very decided
to a remonstrance of that kind, and I simply
said that women had a right to the franchise,
and however they might use their vote it was
nothing at all to do with me. I said they were
quite as capable as men of forming a judgment
upon political questions, and that I had just as
much confidence in the women as I had in the
men. I added—"whether the result should be
that the women will vote against me and turn
me out of Parliament or not, it is a matter of
perfect indifferance to me so long as they exer-
cised the franchise honestly, as I believed they
would." (Hear, hear.) If I have any misgiv-
ings about acceding to your request, and I say
it without any false modesty, it rises entirely
from a doubt as to my ability to do justice to
this important question, and justify the appli-
cation which you are so unanimously making
to me. (Hear, hear.) You know that I am a
new man in Parliament, and I have a great
deal to learn. Yet I am not new to political
matters of various kinds. I told my friend
Mr. Leonard Courtney a few days ago, when I
was talking to him on this question, that if I
was an intellectual giant like him I should feel
very much greater confidence in venturing to
become the leader of this important question
and doing my best with it; but although I am
so much inferior a man in intellectual and
mental capacity, I now say, and I told Mr.
Courtney, I yield neither to him nor any oiher
man in showing an earnestness in promoting
this question to the utmost of my ability.
(Applause.) I intend to prove my honesty of
purpose by showing a determination to further
the interests of this society. (Applause.) If
sincerity, honesty, and earnestness will accom-
plish what the ladies wish to accomplish, I can
only say that I most sincerely hope and believe
that the present Parliament will perform this
great act of justice and enfranchise woman.
(Applause.) You are aware, ladies, that there
is a great block in the House of Commons ow-
ing to Irish questions occupying so much time.
Now I am doing what I can, by standing
steadily by the Government, to enable them to
bring the Irish questions before the House.
Sir Wilfrid Lawson has an important amend-
ment to bring before the House, and though I
am entirely with him, as I am with one or two
of the amendments brought forward by the
Irish members, abstractedly—for I yield to no
one in the desire to do justice to Ireland—still,
seeing that the Irish questions are blocking the
way to the consideration of most important
English questions, I can only see one course for
myself to take, and that is to support the Gov-
ernment, and thus get rid of the present block
to public business. That is the course I have
decided to take. I may inform you that I am
not unacquainted with the question that you
wish me to take in hand. I have been con-

[Column 3]
nected with the association, and also a sub-
scriber to it almost since the day it was formed;
and I think Miss Becker will do me the justice
to say that not only have I subscribed to this
particular association, but that there are two
other associations in which I take an interest.
I am, of course, new to Parliamentry work and
I shall have to bespeak your indulgence, and
ask you to give me all the assistance you pos-
sibly can in the duty which now lies before me.
I accede to this public request with great pleas-
ure indeed. (Applause.) I esteem it a great
honor to have been asked to undertake the duty,
and to have been waited upon by a deputation
so large, so influential, and so representative;
and if anything could encourage me in the
work, it is the fact that so many ladies in this
inclement weather have travelled so long a
distance to ask me earnestly to undertake the
duty. I do not think I can say anything more
beyond reading the resolution which the ladies
desire I should put on the parliamentary paper
immediately, so that friends in the country
may know that the work is not resting. That
resolution is: "That in the opinion of this
House the parliamentary franchise should be
extended to women who possess the qualifica-
tions which entitle men to vote, and who in all
matters of local government have the right of
voting." I will do my best with this resolution,
and if I fail in persuading this new House of
Commons—I do not think the House is going
against us at all, I have great confidence in it
—to accept it, it will not be for want of earnest
devotion to the duty I have undertaken. I
feel the great responsibility of it and I will do
my best to bring the work to a successful issue.
)Applause.)	*	*	*	Woman's
Suffrage Journal, Eug.


CLAN COFFIN MEMORIAL REUNION.

GREAT GATHERING OF THE DESCENDANTS OF
TRISTRAM COFFIN, ON THE ISLAND OF NAN-
TUCKET, AUGUST 16th, 17th and 18th,
1881.

	The Executive Committee of the Tristram
Coffin Reunion Association having received
numerous responses from members of the family
in all parts of the country, and having made
important progress in the arrangements for
the bi-centennial, referred to in their previous
circular of invitation, are now enabled to an-
nounce that the Grand Reunion will be held
on the Island of Nantucket, the exercises to 
continue three days, commencing on Thursday,
the 16th day of August, 1881. The programme,
as now definitely arranged, will include the
following:
	FIRST DAY.—On August 16, a Grand Clam-
bake, to come of near the site of Tristram
Coffin's dwelling house of two centuries ago.
On this occasion an oration will be made by
Tristram Coffin, Esq., of Poughkeepsie, N. Y.,
followed by the usual feast of reason and flow
of soul incidents to such occasions, a mammoth
tent being erected for the purpose.
	SECOND DAY.—On August 17, the memorial 
exercises with procession and corner-stone
ceremonies. Charles Carleton Coffin, Esq., of
Boston, will pronounce the oration, and Robert
Barry Coffin, Esq., of New York, will probably
act as the poet of the occasion.
	THIRD DAY.—On August the 18, a breakfast 
will come off under the mammoth tent, with ap-
propriate incidentals. Prof. Selden J. Coffin,
of Lafayette College, Pennsylvania, will deliver
the oration on this occasion, A Gaand Ball
at night will close the exercises. 
	On all the days of other literary and musical
exercises appropriate to the times and places
may be anticipated, and all the descendants of
the illustrious ancestor are invited to contribute
something in speech or song to make the cele-
bration emphatically a family reunion.


[Column 1]	
﻿	At a meeting of the  Executive  Committee
held in August last, it was voted  to  erect two
bronze statues representing  the patriarch Tris-
tram Coffin and  Dionis Coffin, his wife, upon a
broad pedestal, at an estimated  expense of from
eight  to ten thousand dollars.  In view of the
spirit already  displayed  in  the  matter, it is
hoped and believed that the many descendants
of those who are to  be thus  honored  will be
prompt in responding to the call; and will con-
tribute liberally to make up the desired amount
with the least  possible  delay.  It is  earnestly
desired  that,  in  response to  this circular, all
members of the  Coffin family who intend to be
present at the Reunion  shall  signify  such in-
tention in advance, and, if possible, at an early
date, as the plans  of the  Committee  will  be
much facilitated by their so doing.
	Those wishing to contribute to the Memorial
Fund for  the erection of the Statues are earn-
estly requested to signify in  writing the sums,
larger or smaller, which  they will be ready to
contribute.  It is also important that  all  per-
sons  responding  by letter to  this call  should
write their full  names, giving  both  Christian
and  sirname,  and also  middle name if  they
may have one.  If possible, they may also state
the names of parents and  grandparents, show-
ing to what line of the  Coffin  family  they  be-
long, as such  information  may  be  interesting
and valuable.
	A collection of articles used  by members of
the family in  olden  time  will  be gathered to-
gether for exhibition  during  the  week of fes-
tivities.
	The Committee  have in  contemplation  the
publication of a  Life of  Tristram  Coffin, the
founder of  the family  line in  America, and
from whom all persons by  the name of Coffin
in this  country  are  descended,  together with
reminiscences of some  of his most  illustrious
descendants.  An outline of the family history
from the earliest reliable data will also be given,
illustrated with the different  Coats  of  Arms,
and  other  interesting views.  The profits  to
go toward defraying the expenses  of the cele-
bration.
	Photograph copies of eight different oil paint-
ings of some of the  descendants  of  the  first
Richard Coffin, which now adorn the walls  of
Portledge, near Bideford, Devon County, Eng-
land, and who  flourished in the fifteenth  and
sixteenth centuries, it is hoped will  be  offered
for sale in aid of the celebration fund.
	It is also expected that medals will be struck
commemorative of the  two-hundredth anniver-
sary of the  death  of the  American  ancestor,
appropriately inscribed, that all who attend the
Reunion  may carry away with them  a fitting
memento  of the  celebration, the proceeds to be
applied  to the celebration fund.
	All correspondence  should be addressed  to
the  Secretary and  Treasurer,  Allen  Coffin,
Nantucket, Mass.

	ARTICLES OP ASSOCIATION.

	This association  shall be  known  as THE
TRISTRAM  COFEIN  REUNION ASSOCIATION.
	The object shall be the  commemoration  of
the two-hundredth anniversary of the death  of
Tristram Coffin (the first of the race who settled
in America).
	Its officers shall consist of a President, seven
Vice-Presidents a Secretary and Treasurer, and
and Executive  Committee  of thirty,  the Vice-
Presidents and  Executive Board  being  dele-
gated with power to increase  their numbers at
any time.
	Any person who is a  descendant or married
to a descendant of Tristram Coffin may become a
member of this association by proving the same
and paying to the  Treasurer an  admission fee
of fifty cents.
	Officers: CHARLES G. COFFIN, ESQ., of Nan-
tucket, President;  ALLEN COFFIN, Nantucket, 
Mass. Secretary and Treasurer.

[Column 2]
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear Sister—I have to thank you for giving
space in your excellent paper for the circular
of the  Tristrim  Coffin  re-union,  and  to  offer
you  an  apology  for  the  trouble I am  giving
you;  but when the same  is inserted I shall  re-
quire many Nos. of the EXPONENT to send  to
my numerous  relatives  and friends in different
parts of the United States, that they may join,
as  myself  and family have done.  I expect to
attend the “Memorial Re-union,” if my  health
permits, and expect some of my family will ac-
company me;  each one of them will contribute
to the  Memorial Fund.  I desire  to  show re-
spect to the first  of  our  ancesters, who settled
on the island  of Nantucket;  and to  clasp the
hand  of  my  living  relatives in the bond of
unity and friendship, which 1 trust I shall be
spared to do.
	ELMIRA PINKHAM TUFTS.
Salt Lake City, Feb.14, 1881.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 151


AN ADRESS.

	Bg Ruthinda E. Monch, in behalf of the Re-
lief Societies and Mutual Imprbvement Assocea-
tions of the Weber Stake of Zion, on the 77th
Annivvrsary of the Birth of Sister Eliza R. Snow
Smith.
To ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.
	DEAR SISTER:—We have met this evening
to celebrate the 77th anniversary of your birth-
day. To us you are a bright shining star in
Zion, and we feel, in justice to the noble work
you have done among the sisters of Israel, and
in this Stake particularly, that it is but befitt-
ing for us to show you, in this feeble way, our
appreciation of your services. Your wise coun-
sels have been given without money and with-
out price; yet they are sacred and of far more
value than the riches the world can afford.
How often when overtaken with trials, and
bowed down with grief has your timely advice
and words of comfort brought peace and heav-
enly solace to the aching heart! It is your good
fortune to carry the balm that heals the wound
the anodyne that soothes the pain, the clear
and beautiful light to guide the obedient, virtu-
ous, faithful and true. The secret of all is this,
you have in rich abundance the spirit and in-
fluence of our just Father in Heaven, who never
fails to reward his obedient children, as he has
you, for it is well known to us all, that you
have been obedient to all the requirements
made of you and therefore you are now in your
old age beloved and cherished by your sisters,
honored and respected by your brethren,
esteemed and highly favored by God our Eter-
nal Father.
	Like your honored husband, you have done
a noble work among your sex and you are,
therefore, truly worthy to stand with him, side
by side, upon Mount Zion with the faithful of
God's chosen few.

Beloved sister, thou art dear
To all the Saints assembled here;
Honored, cherished, pure and bright,
To all mankind a shining light.
Thy counsel wise doth teach the heart,
And light and truth and peace impart.
We do delight to hear thy voice,
For well we know thou'rt Heaven's choice.
Thy praises sung in prose and rhyme
Have echoed forth in every clime
Sweet anthems to the Lord and King,
Till old and young its muses sing.
Let us then clasp that aged hand
That hath such blessings at command,
And fondly love our sister dear--
A mother true to all that's here;
And may her years yet numbered be
Till Zion's standard wafts as free
As mountain breeze that sweeps the plain,
Or boundless waves that surge the main,
And all mankind shall bow the knee
In humble prayer to Trinity.

From the Ogden Junction.


THOMAS CARLYLE.

	In the death of Thomas Carlyle, the most
considerable literary man of this generation
has departed. Mr. Carlyle inherited the austere
culture of a Scotch Presbyterian household,
and was educated with a view to the ministry.
But he declined that calling after an intense
mental struggle, out of which he came with a
definite renunciation of the religion he had
been expected to preach. After a time spent 
in teaching, he settled upon literature as his
life's business. It is remarkable that he gained
an earlier and wider recognition in this country
than in Great Britain. The collection of his
essays published in Boston through the intro-
duction of Mr. Emerson was a revelation of
the author to many of his own countrymen.
He was one of the first to bring German litera-
ture to the notice of the English mind, and his
first publications were translations. It was in
his "Sartor Resartus" that he first came for-
ward distinctively as a thinker, while he
clothed his thoughts in a style so defiant of all
recognized proprieties of composition as to be
a stumbling-block in the path of the reader.
 
	As a historian he forever vindicated the
memory of Oliver Cromwell and English Puri-
tanism from the aspersions of two hundred
years. His "French Revolution" is rather a
poem than a history. It everywhere supposes
the reader to be familiar with the facts, refers
freely to many things with a bare reference in
footnotes to the sources of information, but be-
fore us unrolls a panorama, the successive
scenes in which are painted with something of
preternatural vividness and power. His "Fred-
erick the Great" was less successful. It is per-
meated with his later worship of force—titan-
olatry, as Julius Hare named it, the first ar-
ticulate expression of which was in his "Heroes
and Hero-Worship." His scorn of human
rights, and consignment of the mass of man-
kind to absolute rule of the strongest, set him
in opposition to the whole tendency of modern
life, and made him a prophet of evil to his
generation.
	His name and works will live, not teaching,
but stimulating thought. His essays include
some things that have a chance of longer life
than his more elaborate books. If the voice
of his countrymen could be heard, he should
rest among the great in Westminster Abbey.
But his own strong desire was that his body
should lie beside that of his wife, whose loss
has been so tenderly lamented for so many
years of domestic solitude.—Ex.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We have a Relief Society and Y. L. M. I.
Association in Pine Valley, and we are all
striving to do what we can for the upbuilding
of the Kingdom of God. We have lately had
a visit from our worthy sisters, E. R. Snow
Smith, Zina D. Young and Minerva W. Snow.
They held three meetings in this place, giving
the sisters some very good instruction, which
will long be remembered by them, and was
highly appreciated. We do not enjoy the so-
ciety of such talented women often. While
here they organized a Primary Association,
which I think will be the means of doing much
good in implanting the principles of the Gos-
pel in the young and tender minds of the chil-
dren, that they may grow in the love and ad-
monition of the Lord; for "as the twig is bent
so does the tree incline."
	Ever wishing for the success of the EXPO-
NENT, I remain your sister in the Gospel,
	C. S. GARDNER.
	Pine Valley, Feb. 6, 1881.


152	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE Queen has ordered a painting of the
"Capture of Cetywayo."

	Mrs. Leopold de Rothschild has a new neck-
lace, which, although it is only a single row of
pearls, is valued at $100,000. One of her hus-
band's bridal gifts was a pleasant little sum of
$2,500 for distribution among the Jewish chari-
ties at Vienna.

	IN the United States Senate last week the
statue of the late Senator Collamer, of Ver-
mont, was presented to the United States, to
be placed in the national statuary hall set
apart for two statues of representative, men
from each State.

	A NEW painting by Titian has been discov-
ered in the Austrian Chateau d' Ambras, where
it hung unnoticed for many years. It is a life-
sized portrait of the wife of the emporer
Charles V. There are said to be full proofs of
the authenticity of the work, which has been
taken to Vienna.

	A NEW work by Ouida, entitled, "A Village
Commune," is now in active preparation. It
consists of a passionate protest against the ap-
plication to regenerated Italy of the Code Na-
poleon and a picture of the kind of oppression
to which, according to the author, the peasants
are now subjected. Messrs. Chatto and Windus
will be the printers.

	THE Joseph Hume scholarship in political
economy has been awarded by the council of
University College, London, to Miss Ada
Heatherbigg, LL. A., St. Andrews, and moral
science scholar 1877 (Cambridge higher local
examination). This is the first time that the
Hume scholarship in political economy has
been carried off by a lady.

	COLONEL Jerome Bonaparte and his wife
are now living in Washington and entertaining
a great deal. Mrs. Bonaparte—a grand-
daughter of Daniel Webster—is a clever and
charming woman. She dresses magnificently,
and often wears beautiful jewels, a large share
of which descended to her from the late Eliza-
beth Patterson Bonaparte.

	MRS. Erastus S. Gaylord is a Cleveland (O.)
lady of note, now in her eighty-first year. At
her grandson's wedding a few days ago General
Garfield was receiving with family friends.
When Mrs. Gaylord made her adieu to the
President elect she said: "My leave taking to
you is pax-tibi, but I suppose many would say
instead, 'Remember me when thou comest into
thy kingdom.' "


ITEMS.

	Two little boys were playing a short time
since, when one said to the other, "You aint
got a Nell," meaning a gentle nag he some-
times leads to water. "But we've got a Bess,"
said the other child. "You aint got a pa,
though." The little fellow waited a moment,
then said, in a low, hushed voice, "No, I aint
got a pa, but I've got three fathers." "Who
are they, then?" "Well, there's Frank, that's
one (meaning his eldest brother), and my
father who died and lives in heaven, that's
two, and my Heavenly Father, that makes
three."—Q.


CLASSES IN MIDWIFERY.—Of the medical
students taught by Dr. Romania B. Pratt during
last summer in her classes in midwifery, Mrs.
Elizabeth Nuttall, of Kanab, Mrs. Jeannette De
La Mere, of Tooele City, and Mrs. Sinah P.
Bishop, of Salt Lake City, were blessed and set
apart by Pres. W. Woodruff and Counselor D.
H. Wells, and all passed a satisfactory examina-
tion before Dr. Benedict and Dr. S. B.


Young, and received certificates, showing their
qualifications and ability to act, as midwives.
Another class, consisting of Mrs. M. A. Stod-
dard, of Qrantsville, Mrs. S. B. Goss, of Salt
Lake City, Mrs. A. Woolman, of Spanish Fork,
and Mrs. E. Papworth, of Hooperville, finished
their course of study last Wednesday, and were
blessed and set apart by President Jos. F. Smith
assisted by President A. O. Smoot, and in the
evening passed a very creditable examination
before Dr. S. B. Young and Dr. Ellen B. Fergu-
son, each receiving her certificate of competency
to act in this special branch of medicine. Hav-
ing been duly qualified, as above stated, these
sisters are we believe fully worthy of the con-
fidence of the people among whom they are to
practice their vocation.


[Column 1]
WH. C. HEBERHART,
Druggist and Pharmacist,
44 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH,
DEALER IN
DRUGS, Medicines and Chemicals, Toilet Articles, Perfu-
mery, and a complete line of goods usually kept in a
first class Drug Establishment. All guaranteed to be pure
and fresh, and will be sold at the most reasonable prices.
Special attention given to Physician's Prescriptions and
Family Recipes.

WARNER'S
SAFE
[image of a black worker]
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE
	Is made from a Simple Tropical Leaf of Rare value, and
is a POSITIVE Remedy for all the diseases that cause
pains in the lower part of the body—for Torpid Liver—Head-
ache—Jaundice—Dizziness, Gravel,Malaria, and all difficult-
ies of the Kidneys, Liver, and Urinary Organs. For Fe-
male Diseases, it has no equal. It restores the organs
that make the blood,and hence is the best Blood Purifier.
It is the only known remedy that cures Bright's Dis-
ease. For Diabetes, use Warner's Safe Diabetes Cure,
	For Sale by Druggists and Dealers at $1,25 per bottle.
Largest bottle in the market. Try it.
		H. H. WARNER & CO., Rochester, N. Y.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
	RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed !

15 Cents !	15 Cents !!

BIBLE ALMANAC
For the Year of our Lord,
1881
Published by J. H. HEMAN, Salt Lake
City, Utah Territory.
☞ Ask for it in the Book Stores. Sent by Mail Postp a

[Column 2]
CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
DR. ROUMWNIA B. PRATT WILL BEGIN A NEW
class in Midwifery, in her office, up stairs, Old Constitu-
tion Building, March 1st, 1881. Students should send their
names in time for books to be procured.
TERMS , $30.	BOOKS $12.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE in Bishop Hunter's old residence, between Z. C. M
I. and the National Bahk.
	RESIDENCE 11th Ward, 7th East Street, between South and
1st South Streets, west side of street.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Fall and Winter Goods.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, CAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
BOX, 541.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the women of all Nations.
