VOL. 9.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1880.		No. 2.


DERNFORD DALE.

MY EARLY HOME, WRITTEN THIRTY-FIVE YEARS AGO.

Shall others, sweet Valley thy praises rehearse
And unstrung be my lyre, and silent my verse?
Forbid it my musc! and if lowly the strain.
When the heart shall dictate, 'twill not all be in vain.

But who in this age of refinement, and art
Will deign to admire my favorite theme
Where nature alone presides over the scene?

So be it—by me 'tis by no means despised,
'Tims my Home!—in that word is a volume comprised;
There I've tasted the mixture of life, good and ill,
And such has endeared it more lastingly still.

But hayfields, and cornfields, and water and wood,
Are deem'd in a landscape essentially good,
Then I fancy we still have a claim 'twill be found.
For in these my loved valley is known to abound.

If these have no merits, then come to "the grove"
The song of the nightingale, all surely love!
There, she reigns Prima donna, and charms the whole
	scene
And black bird, and thrush pour their sweet notes be-
	tween.

I love too, to stand on the rush covered "fen"
And list to the cry of the lapwing—and then
The voices of frogs, far away from the scene,
All these speak of hours, and days that have been.

I, love, when the day and its turmoil is done,
To ramble unheeded, unthought of—alone,
Then ascend to the hill, overlooking the dell,
And list to the sound of the sweet village bell;

Oh! those sweet village bells are delightful to me,
How often I hear them ring out o'er the lea;
And that morning we walked out of Church side by side
How joyous they welcom'd the Bridegroom and Bride.

On xmas-day morning, how blandly they ring,
And the old year's departure—the new usher in!
Yes, yes while I live I'll remember those bells,
Their tongues have a language that nothing else tells.

These are pleasures that pall not, they soften the heart
And peace, and serenity ever impart;
They draw us from earth, our thoughts fly to Him
Who made this fair world, our Creator and King;

These are some of the beauties, and charms of my sphere
You may think that which follows a simple idea,
That immured in a Town I shonld ever bewail
The simple enjoyments, of dear Dernfod Dale!

								HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]
REFLECTIONS ON THE BRIEF REVIEW
OF THE LIVES OF ALICE AND
PHOEBE CARY.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	In reviewing the lives of celebrated men and
women, many are apt to consider them as be-
ings apart from the rest of mankind; and indeed,
in a large sense, they are so; in other senses
they are of the masse. It is very true that
they have a world of their own, a region in
which the spirit "lives and moves and has its
being;" a withdrawing room, if you please, into
which they retire at any moment, and feel there
they breathe an atmosphere that feeds, regen-
erates and invigorates their soul! An "inner
temple" into which they take only themselves
—and God! There they have a consecrated
shrine, there they feel heaven is around and
about them; holy spirits administer to them,
and they come out renewed and refreshed. Out-
side that door they leave the world, their cares,
their petty annoyances from those who do not
understand them, from those whose spirits are
not of their calibre; therefore often jar the
chords of the fine instrument of a thousand

[Column 2]
strings, whose music is heard only by the
spirit's ear. But they emerge from this Elysium
and they become at once "one of us," knowing
good and evil, seeing it, feeling it, and in some
measure, sometimes partaking of it to their 
sorrow; for such spirits feel keenly, suffer and
enjoy in the same ratio; they are organized for
heaven, but like the rest of the human family,
they have to pass through an earthly probation;
such, with many others, were Alice and Phoebe
Cary, they had their "inner temple" ever
"swept and garnished," but they came out and
shut the door and went about their daily avoca-
tions of life as other people did, assisted in house-
maids' duties, in the cooking, in the confection-
ery, and were excellent in all; went to market
basket on arm, brought home the needful for the
table as business like as "Bridget" herself could
do it. Phoebe would always remember to bring
home a sweet bouquet for Alice's breakfast table
and another for her writing table, which were
ever inspirational, for they were the offerings of 
the sweetest love that one mortal could offer to
another. She also ever brought with her a
spirit of "fun," reciting at the breakfast table all
the ridiculous scenes she had witnessed in her
marketing tour, causing merry laughter, that
assisted digestion marvelously and helped the
spirit to a healthy tone for the rest of the day,
making observations on life's motley phases, as
few have the tact for doing, weeping over
some--yes, ever ready to weep with the
mourner, as to rejoice with the happy, and then
all this would be simmered down into thrilling
and beautiful articles for the papers, for the
magazines, for poetical morceaus, that has made
the world ring with their praises, has often com-
forted the mourner, cheered the depressed,
and made them weep and laugh almost in the
same moment; by their pathos, and by their ri-
diculousness. In reading Phoebe's productions,
they excite the same contrariety of feeling as in
reading that pathetic writer Lawrence Sterne;
her writings call out the same contrast of feel-
ing as in Sterne's "Maria," "Le Fevre," "The
Prisoner," etc., one moment we cannot read for
laughing, the next some sentiment is evolved,
so exquisitely touching, that we are obliged to
stop and swallow down the heart-sob that ar-
rests our voice. Yes, Phoebe, dear, I love thee!
I appreciate thee, and thy revered sister Alice!
What women these were to be proud of, their
pictures ought to adorn every woman's room,
their beautiful writings be found on every wo-
man's table; for they were worthy of all imitation;
in their self-reliance, in the noble way in which
they fought the battle of life! in their devotion
to their God! they worshipped Him "in the beau-
ty of holiness," in literally working out their
salvation to the best light they had. Oh! my
young sisters, read their lives, and then imitate
their self-reliance, self-supporting indomitable
perseverance; truly were they workers for the
public good, truly were they help-meets to wo-
man; and to attain this end, laying daily on the 
altar of self-sacrifice. Let none think that the
lives of the literati are lives of ease and emolu-
ment; whatever they receive, rest assured
they earn it by the sweat of the brain
and by the sweat of the heart, for no one, whose
harp has not been strung by the hard hand of
experience, can write so as to strike the chords
that lie deep in every heart. An imaginative
writer may touch and excite the senses—but it
is only the one who has passed under "the Car
of Juggernaut" that can touch the heart and
infuse into it the spirit by which the writer has
been inspired. We ought to be very grateful to
those who lay out the beautiful material of their
own heart and brain for our edification, and
amusement, for our comfort and refreshment;
who hold up to our view a mirror as it were, in
which we can view character and discover
wherein we resemble the model, and where we
are deficient; and though many read, and lay
aside the missive with thoughtless apathy and
non-appreciation, yet I am thankful to say there
is still a mighty mass of mind, full of gratitude
and love, for the brain-workers of the world;
those heart explorers who delve deep in the hid-
den mines of human wealth, and bring up to the
surface the gold and silver, and the jewels

[Column 3]
that were before buried in "the dark unfathomed
caves" of human hearts and brains. God gives
them inspiration, and they wear the "singing
robes" that He prepares for the minstrels, that
are also ministering spirits in his hands and
missionaries on his earth.


AN ADDRESS TO MAN.

	The general medley of remarks, good, bad and
indifferent, made by both sexes and all classes,
and creeds; calls up in my mind these questions:
What is woman? What is her mission in this life?
And what rights does she claim?
	The Scriptures tell us that woman was created,
for a companion and helpmeet to man, because
"it is not good to be alone." They twain to be
one, and their mission in this life; to people the
earth with intelligent beings. These intelligent
beings, the embodiment of the immortal spirit
with the mortal body; unlike other creatures-
they begin life with such protracted helpless,
ness, that no one would attempt to say, that
woman's mission,could end with the "bearing
of the sons of men." No! It is but a beginning
of her task.
	The intelligent mother knows even intuitively,
that the molding of the infant mind, is her task,
as much as the framing of its body: and her
cares and anxiety increase with the age and
number of her offspring.
	Men whose mother's love, teachings and
prayers, have followed them through life, like a
halo of light, through the darkness of doubts
and temptations; will readily allow woman's
voice, to be heard in all matters pertaining to the
social weal.
	Drop all traditions into oblivion and taking
consistency for a guide, consider whether wo-
man, in her own sphere, that is, by the side of
her husband and surrounded by her children;
has not as great, if not a greater interest than
her brother man, in the uprightness and moral-
ity of the politics and government of the country
in which she lives.
	How much safety, is there for the virtue of
mothers and daughters, aye and sons, in a na-
tion ruled by a fraudulent and corrupt govern-
ment? None. But says one! There are so many
foolish, giddy women! Well, my friend, are wise
men the mojority? If so, whence all this general
mistrust, contention and fraud? Whence this
gigantic extravagance on which is wrecked
honesty, loyalty and confidence.
	Women foolish, vain and giddy? Yes, many
are, and whose fault? Have not men, brought
about this state of affairs, by giving to the vain
butterflies, the preference over women of worth?
Shape and turn the question as we will, the ugly,
but palpable fact stares us in the face; that man
has hitherto endeavored to keep woman ignorant
and incapable of solid pursuits in life; that she
might be a mere toy in his hands, and in some
countries his slave, de facto. Nay my brother
man! Fear not, that woman may arise, as your
rival, and perchance, tangle the meshes of poli-
tics more than they are already. She wishes not
to be a rival; but a true helpmeet. Not a lob-
byist, to assist in working out fraudulent
schemes; but to openly, and in her own right,
assist man in bringing about a reform, without
which, society must necessarily become a wreck.
	It is not that Woman wishes to rule, but she
demands the privilege of a voice in electing, the
men who shall rule over, and make laws for her-
self and offspring.
	Deny her not! For her love pure and unselfish
urges her on, and she not rest, until her
hand grasps the Rudder of this great Life Boat.
									E. C. F.
	Morgan, June 10th, 1880.


HOME PUBLICATION:—"Prose and Poetry" is
the title of a new book in pamphlet form. A
collection of originial articles from the pen of
Mrs. Emily B. Spencer, of St. George. Some
of them were written in the Temple. The book
contains 88 pages, and is for sale at this office.
Price 50 cents.


10		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EARLY REMINISCENCES.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	When I first commenced these reminiscences,
I only gave a short sketch and did not think to
continue them, but having been urged to write
more, I will copy a few more lines from my
father's history to show some of the cruelties
and injustice of our enemies and that there
were a few in the State of Missouri who revolted
at the horrible deeds that were committed.
"The legislature of the State of Missouri ap-
propriated two thousand dollars to be distributed
among the people of Davies and Caldwell Coun-
ties, the "Mormons" not excepted. Judge
Cameron, Mr. McHenry and others attended to
the distribution. Judge Cameron drove in the 
hogs belonging to the brethren, many of which
were identified, shot down in the street and
without further bleeding they were half dressed,
cu[-] up and distributed by McHenry to the poor,
charging four or five cents per pound, which,
together with a few pieces of refuse calico at
double and triple prices, soon consumed the ap-
propriation.
	The Prophet and others petitioned Judge
Tomkins or either of the Supreme Judges of the 
State of Missouri for a State's writ of habeas
corpus, that he and his brethren might be
brought before either of those judges, that jus-
tice might be administered. I was requested by
Joseph to go to Jefferson City and present the
petition. The committee met and appointed
Theodore Turley to accompany me. We took
copies of the papers by which the prisoners were
held, with the petition, to the Supreme Judges,
and immediately started a distance of 300 miles,
visited the Judges and laid the whole matter
before them, individually, according to our best
abilities. Neither of them would take any ac-
tion in the case, although they appeared friendly
and acknowledged that they were illegally im-
prisioned. We also presented a petition to the 
Secretary of State, the governor being absent,
he appeared very kind, but like the other offi-
cers he had no power to do good. We immedi-
ately returned to Liberty and made Joseph and
the brethren acquainted with the result of our
mission, through the grate of the dungeon, as we
were not permitted to enter the prison; Joseph
told us to be of good cheer, and get all the Saints
away as fast as possible. In company with Bro-
ther Turley I visited Judge Austin A. King, who
was angry at us, for presenting his illegal pa-
pers to the Supreme Judges. He treated us
roughly. At a meeting of the committee Brother
Daniel Shearer and I were appointed to visit
Judge Hughes, who had formerly been an In-
dian agent, and get him to go to Davis and at-
tend the sitting of the Court there. He express-
ed himself in friendly terms towards Joseph and 
the brethren; being a very rough man in his
language, he G—d d—d the Judges, and the
Governor and everybody else that would not
step forward and help those men out of the
hands of their persecutors, for he did not believe
they were guilty of any of the crimes alleged
against them. Said he, "the Mormons have
been treated d—d mean," looking us directly in
the eye he said, "By G-d, look at their eyes,
see how bright and keen they are, they are
whipped but not conquered, you can see that in
their eyes."
	There were several men in Liberty who were
friendly to the brethren; I called on them when
I went there, and they treated me with great
civility, General Doniphan and Atchsion and the 
tavern keeper where I put up, and several of the
foremost men, who belonged to the Masonic
fraternity. At the tavern the hostler was
a black man, and being friendly to me I
gave him a dollar and told him I had to ride
much, and requested him to be kind to my horse
and brush him down well. Next morning, when
I came to take my horse out of the stable, he
was foundered and so stiff I could hardly get him
out of the stable; the hostler had given him too
much grain. Those men whom I have named,
and several others, revolted at the scenes enact-
ed against the Mormons, and would have liber-
ated the brethren had it not been for the "out-
side pressure," that is, the strong prejudices
imbided by the people against us; and the blood-
thirstiness to kill the Prophet, which was in the 
Governor who should have been a father; but,
because he was a tyrant, he will be d——d
and go to h—lll, with all who raise their tongues
against this work and people. The committee
made me a present of a fine sorrel horse, as I had
considerable traveling to do.
	14th—The committee moved 36 of the poor
and helpless families into Tenney's Grove, about

[Column 2]
25 miles from Far West. I was obliged to se-
crete myself in the woods and cornfields during
the day and went evenings to counsel the com-
mittee and brethren in private houses.
	18th.—This morning, as I was going to the
committee-room, to tell the committee to wind
up their affairs and be off; or their 
lives would be taken, I was met on
the public square by several of the
mob, one of them asked if I was a d—d Mormon.
I replied, "I am a Mormon." They answered,
"Well, g—d d—n you, we'll blow your brains
out," repeating the oath again, they tried to
ride over me with their horses, in the presence
of Elias Smith, Theodore Turley and others of
the committee. It was but a few minutes after I
had notified the committee to leave, before the
mob gathered at the Tithing House and began
breaking clocks, chairs, windows, looking glasses
and furniture, making a complete destruction of 
everything, while Captain Bogart, the county
judge looked on and laughed, and a mobber
named Whittaker jumped about and laughed
like a mad man; and all this at a time when we
were using our utmost endeavors to get the
Saints away from Far West. The brethren
gathered up what they could and fled from Far
West in one hour; the mob stayed until the 
committee left and then plundered thousands of 
dollars worth of property which had been left by
the brethren and sisters to assist the poor to re-
move to Illinois.
	One mobber rode up and finding no conven-
ient place to fasten his horse, shot a cow that
was standing near, while a girl was milking her,
and while the poor animal was struggling in
death he cut a strip of her hide from her nose to
her tail, to which he fastened his halter. At that
time the great crime consisted in being united and
having bishops, priests, etc., and believing in the 
spiritual gifts of the Gospel which Jesus taught
his disciples; but now we are toid that the prac-
tice of Polygamy is the only thing they have
against us as a people. What nonsense and how
foolish this sounds to those who remember all
these things and the scenes which the Saints
have passed through. The ignorance of the mass
is only surpassed by their intolerance. Our
greatest persecutions and our drivings were be-
fore the principle of plural marriage had been
revealed. The "Mormons" who were driven
from Missouri were mostly from the Eastern
States and were industrious and enterprising and
much more refined than the majority of the
Western people, who were satisfied to live in
little log huts, with one pane of glass, and often
none at all; their fire places generally covered
one side of the room, and that with the broad
chimney and one door, which was generally left
open winter and summer, to let in the light,
served their purpose. Their living consisted
mainly of coffee, hominy, and corn dodger, corn
meal wet up with cold water, whithout any short-
ening, and transparent bacon. The richest land,
stock and slave holders aspired to little more:
but the spirit of union, industry and enterprise
which they saw in our people filled them
wlth jealousy and hatred like unto Cain,
and this spirit was encouraged by apostates,
who sold the Prophet and his brethren, and they
received money for betraying them. Governor
Boggs and his minions were guilty of offering
their prisoners the flesh of their murdered breth-
ren to eat, and when our cause was laid before
the President of the United States, his answer
was, "Gentlemen, your cause is just, but I can
do nothing for you; if I take up for you I shall
lose the vote of Missouri." And this is a land of 
LIBERTY, FREEDOM AND EQUAL RIGHTS. None
but Saints would have endured such wrongs,and
they are the only people who practise what they
profess, or even believe these words of the Sav-
ior, "The servant is not above his Lord; if they
have persecuted, me, they will persecute you
also;" and that all the trials through which the 
Saints have passed are in fulfilment of the words
of the prophets since the world began. It
would be well for the world to discern the signs
of the times, and more especially those who pro-
fess to belong to the Church of Jesus Christ of 
Latter-day Saints, but are careless and luke-
warm, that the day of the Lord may not overtake
them as a thief in the night."
	I have not indulged in these reminiscences out
of any feeling of revenge, no, my heart aches for
the suffering, even of our enemies. I pity and feel
to pray for them, for they know not what they
do, but the blood of the innocent is crying for
vengeance. This nation has a terrible debt to
pay. In Illinois the Prophet and Patriarch
were murdered in cold blood and the Saints
again forced in the dreadful month of February,
1846 to leave their beautiful city and their hard-

[Column 3]
earned homes to their enemies, who hoped and
expected they would all perish. The poor and
the aged, sick and infirm were afterwards driven
across the Mississippi in the sickly season of the 
year, and scores of them died. They took from
us five hundred of young able-bodied men to
fight in the Mexican war, which made it impos-
sible for us to travel, and hundreds died at our
Winter Quarters from diseases brought on by
privations; being so long without vegetable food
and the hardships and exposures endured on
that journey.
	The travels of the Saints from Nauvoo to these
valleys were marked by the graves of their loved
ones. The Saints have borne all in patience
because they had faith in the Almighty who
said, "Vengeance is mine, I will repay."


ORIGIN OF THE Y. L. M. I. ASSOCIATION.

	In the year 1869, President Brigham Young,
contemplating the increasing influence the
worldly element in our midst was gaining over
the hearts of our youth, by its importatious, ex-
travagances, and customs, in contrast with the
simplicity in which our youth had been reared;
sought by the organization of a Society, a reform
in dress and table expenditures. It was in-
tended also to present such instructions as would
benefit the body, cultivate the mind and
inculcate a knowledge and love of the Gospel in
the hearts of those who should associate them-
selves therewith.
	Under the instructions of Pres. Young, Sister
E. R. Snow organized a Society composed of
members of his own family, which organization
was called the "Young Ladies Department of
the Ladies Cooperative Retrenchment Associa-
tion;" the Resolutions of which were written by
Sister E. R. Snow. Immediately following this
Organization, in accordance with the wish of
Pres. Young, Sisters E. R. Snow, M. T. Smoot,
and M. I. Horne, organized Retrenchment As-
sociations in other Wards.
	The movement was regarded by many as an
innovation, and the first members felt a degree
of isolation and restriction in accepting its first
adopted code of Resolutions; and in inviting
their young companions to unite with them felt
a delicacy in doing so, as though proposing some-
thing requiring considerable sacrifice of feeling,
and unusual force of character to sustain, and
met with gunine gratitude those who became of
their number. It was a high tribute to woman,
that of her was asked the founding of an insittu-
tion whose corner stone was self denial; for love
of adornment, and display in dress, are by many
considered to be stricly feminine attributes.
Not many were the volunteers, and a few lost
heart and left the ranks, under the raillery of
companions, little dreaming the importance the
organizations would yet attain to, of the honor
that membership would confer, and the high,
honor of being an acknowledged auxiliary
to the servants of God, in the establishing of his
kingdom upon the earth. We do not forget the
gratitude expressed by mothers, with fervent hope
their sons might yet have such organizations for
their welfare.
	In 1877, in accordance with the authorized and
accepted course of exercises, the organizations,
unannimously, by vote, adopted the title of Y. L.
M. I. A.
	Recognizing the necessity of a presidency over
the then numerous associations: in September
1878, Mrs Mary A. Freeze, of the 11th Ward,
S. L. City was by unanimous vote of the Con-
ference of the Sisters of Salt Lake Stake of Zion,
appointed President of the Y. L. M. I. A.
of Salt Lake County. Subsequently (1879)
Mrs. Louie Felt and Mrs Clara, Y. Conrad,
were appointed Counselors, and Mrs. A. J. Croch-
eron, Sec'y to Pres. Freeze.
	The Y. L. M. I. A.,number upwards of eleven
thousand members, at this time, the end of the
first decade. Who can measure the possibilities
of the next ten years, for the daughters of Zion?
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CHROCHEON.


THE DUTY OF ALL.—The Phonograph, At-
lanto, Ga., talks as follows: "If sick with any
of the diseases for which Warner's Safe Reme-
dies are a specific, if old or young, it is the duty
of all to take them if anxious to be cured."


HOW TO INVEST.—The Democrat, Goshen, N.
C., says: "It may not be improper here to add
that health is accumulated, the sick made well,
and a large interest of comfort and happiness
secured by investing in 'Warner's Safe Rem-
edies.'"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		11


THE  DARK  CLOUD.

BY  MAY MAPLE.

Across the sky so bright and blue
	On a peaceful Summer's day,
A great dark cloudlet quickly flew-
	And vanished then for aye

The sun, obscured but for a time,
	Came forth again with might;
And naught was left to mark the place—
	All, all, was pure and bright.

As I gazed on the dark mass moving,
	So swiftly through the air,
I thought  to this cloud our troubles
	We easily can compare.

In the flush of sunny strength and hope
	A trial comes along;
It drowns all our pleasant feelings
	Banishes jest and song.

Our hearts are so low and so hopeless,
	Our prospects dark and drear;
We bow to each passing opinion
	And shudder with nameless fear.

Ev'ry hour is most anxiously watched,
	Each day we  fear things new.
And yet our surroundings brighten not—
	The world is dark to our view.

But soon in the great dark covering,
	A ray of light we see;
Broader, and broader yet, it grows—
	Our cares commence to flee.

And soon our dark pathway brightens up,
	Our fears have sudd'nly fled
And our anxious cares and troubles all
	Are vanished like the dead,

All, all, once more is pure and bright
	Our life seems much more dear,
Because we have gained again the light,
	Have passed the dark and drear.

Salt Lake City, Utah.


AN OPEN LETTER.

Dear Editor:
	I wonder if you can find a few moments to
read some of the thoughts floating through my
brain at this time? I seem to want to think
palpably to one who is my compeer! It is a
most lovely evening in leafy June; I am be-
holding one of our most glorious Utah sunsets,
than which nothing can be more gorgeous and
sublime! The turmoil of the day is passed, I
have walked into my withdrawing room and
shut the door, and left earth-life outside, hence
I want you with me; as in measuring character
I have concluded that when you were undergo-
ing the process of organization, a goodly spice of
poetry and romance were thrown into the com-
pound, and hence I feel that we are compeers.
If you veto the consanguinity, all right, it will
not alter facts; but bear in mind, according to
my definition of words and ideas, there is noth-
ing derogatory to you! But let me proceed. I
have organized this retreat according to my own
taste. There I meet those influences congenial
to me. We walk in the Elysian fields, where
beautiful flowers are ever springing. We inhale
their perfume, and we partake of the ambro-
sial food that nourishes the ethe-
real and the immortal; we sip from
the founts overflowing with the nectar which
exhilarates our spirits, and quickens every
sense, especially those of love and adoration to
the Great Giver and Author of all! Were you
here, I should propound the question whether
those who have discovered that which will
make, in a great measure, their happiness on
earth, have not attained to a knowledge of them-
selves, which will enable them to make much
of their present life a heaven on the earth?
Knowledge certainly is a power in such a case;
and it is not in greatness and grandeur of means
or position that true happiness is to be found.
No, verily, it is in "the cool, sequestered vale of
life" that her presence and her influence hovers
and is felt much more forcibly than among
wealth and its appliances. When any attain
this knowledge of themselves it will give them
repose of character—a happiness and independ-
ence the world can never give nor has power to
take away. Or course there is room for discus-
sion, but look abroad. Have you not seen crowds
who could not tell what would make them hap-


py? They imagine this or  that,  but when pos-
sessed,

"The beauteous toy so fiercely sought,
Loses its charm by being caught."

	I hear you say enough, and it is now twilight.
		Your friend,
									REX.


A TRUE STORY.

	In the fall, of 1869 a man with his young wife
and their only child, a little girl about eight
months old, started out on a journey of over a
hundred miles to visit their relatives. They
made the journey in about four days, and visited
around among their friends some three months,
at the end of that time the chilly winds of De-
cember warned them of the near approach of
winter, and the distance they had to travel be-
fore reaching home. After some preparation
they started for their home in northern Utah.
The third night out they drove into the little
town of C., a pleasant little valley situated in
the tops of the mountains; that night the wind
whistled and the snow drifted, and to the trav-
elers it seemed as though winter had in very
deed set in, however, the next morning they re-
sumed their journey, having paid a man $2.50
for taking his oxen and helping them over the
divide, a distance of about three miles; the snow
was drifting terribly, and it was all a span of
mules with the help of the oxen could do to draw
the wagon, although the load was very light;
when they got over as far as the man had been
hired to go, they tried to hire him to go farther,
but money was no temptation, so severe was the
storm. I have many times since wondered if
that man had a heart, and always concluded if
he had, it must have been callous, to leave that
man with his wife and babe in a snow bank as it
were with no possible way of escape. The mules
could not stir the wagon, and when the lash was
applied to them they could only plunge and
pant. O! what shall we do, was the question
that agitated both husband and wife. Help, we
must have help, was the husband's answer. Can
you stay here alone while I go and bring that
man back. I will make him come said he. des-
perately. There was a silence as of death, all
the imaginations of her nature were aroused;
what if her husband should start off alone facing
such a storm and should get so exhausted that
he should sink down to rest. My readers know
the result that would be likely to follow, and
none of them could realize it more forcibly than
did the wife at this particular moment. At
length, the silence was broken, "Speak quick, or
it will be too late to overtake him." Her only
reply was, go! He started off in pursuit of the
retreating oxen and their driver, and to
the anxious husband it seemed that
locomotive power had never traveled half
so fast as did those same oxen. The hope to
overtake them was soon gone,but he would make
his way as best he could to the little settlement
and obtain help; he struggled on, but made slow
progress. What was the young wife doing all
this time? crying and wringing her hands? No,
she was praying to her God with all her might,
beseeching Him to preserve her husband from
the terrible fate that seemed to threaten him;
her only thought seemed to be of him. Mo-
ments, which seemed like hours of anxious
waiting, elapsed, when to her unbounded joy
she heard shouts; they had scarcely died away
when shouts still farther off reached her ear, the
Lord had heard and answered her prayer. Help
was at hand; her husband had struggled along
until he got to the top of the ridge, where below
him lay some wagons; he could scarcely tell wheth-
er they were moving or not, so slow was their
progress and blinding the storm, until shouting
with all his strength he received an answer. The
remainder of that day was spent in breaking
roads; the men, part of them, formed in line,
and would walk in front of the wagons, each
wagon in turn taking the lead. Their rest was
frequent and sometimes quite long, giving the
animals plenty of time. In that way they suc-
ceeded in getting through the canyon, and about
8 o'clock in the evening they arrived in the lit-
tle town of W., where kind and hospitable
friends entertained them for the night. The
next day they reached their home, feeling
thankful to the God of Heaven for his unbound-
ed mercy in preserving their lives, and still they
have cause to rejoice, for that same God that de-
livered them in that hour of peril has delivered
them through other trials and difficulties, and
his hand is still over them for good.
									TINEY.
	Salt Lake City, June 4th, 1880.


EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER.

	We took up a petition to the California Legis-
lature, signed by 1,002 names. The fight was
directed towards giving women the ballot upon
all school questions and in the selection of trus-
tees and superintendents. The Senate received
us with great courtesy and the Assembly gave
us a cordial greeting; unfortunately there was a
considerable portion of the hoodlum element
represented in the lower house, and you know
ignorance and vulgarity arc the parents of preju-
dice and brutality, and consequently are anta-
gonistic to real reform, especially that reform
which will place direct power in the hands of
women, who constitute the conscience of society,
and who will always fight on the side of temper-
ance and refinement. Still we found a great
number of friendly sympathizers, and it was
curious to note the evident superiority of our
friends. This was so marked that even our op-
ponents would say, "You have some pretty fine
men to support you."
	We called upon the Governor, who declared
himself in favor of giving women the full and
entire franchise, saying that he considered this
reform to be necssary for the salvation of the
republic.
		The Assembly tendered us the use of the As-
sembly Chamber for a special hearing on the
evening of the 11th. Then I learned that it was
expected that I should represent the women of
Santa Clara County in a speech. For a person
so inexperienced, it was a great trial, but I
nerved myself for it. Mrs. Laura de Force Gor-
don and Mrs. Foltz ere to speak. These ladies
are lawyers, and Mrs. Gordon has well earned
the reputation of being a remarkably gifted wo-
man A Miss Kellogg, physician, of Sacramen-
to was to make some remarks. Miss Kellogg
is a very popular lady, of charming appearance
and excellent taste in dress. Her discourse was
pretty, but she is not a gifted speaker. How-
ever, her popularity did more to help us than
any amount of words. The Assembly Chamber
was crowded; the Assembly men gave up their
front seats to the ladies and took the sides and
back of the hall. The galleries were a black
mass, all men. I spoke first, and my heart
did not fail me at all. I wish I could send you
some of it, but there was no correct report
made. Mrs. Gordon made the argument of the
evening. Altogether the meeting made a very
favorable impression.
	I received numerous compliments and my
own friends were delighted. I really think if I
could have sufficient practice I could make a
pretty good speaker. I become so excited or
enthusiastic that I forgot myself and then I
like it.
	Then at last the bill came up for a third read-
ing—all the bills have to be read three times—
crowds flocked to hear the debate and some of
the members did me the honor of quoting some
points of my speech. At 11.30 p.m. there were
yet several members who had not spoken, so
the vote was adjourned until the following
week. The debates were quite fine in our favor,
the opponents did not attempt to argue, but
tried ridicule, or went back to the garden of
Eden. One Lane burlesqued the petitions and
proved himself an admirable clown.
	The bill lingered so long that none of our dele-
gates could remain. This was a pity as our
presence seemed to keep the members up to a
sense of their responsibilities. At last the bill
was voted upon and passed by five majority.
Great was the rejoicing, but alas for the insta-
bility of masculine nature, the very next morn-
ing, some member moved a reconsideration of
the bill which movement was carried by a
small majority. Then seven of the members
went back upon their votes, so that the bill was
indefinitely postponed by a majority of two.
	The general feeling is that it was a cowardly
and disgraceful proceeding. Really I think that
this meanness will do us more good in the end
than a victory would have done. It will make
people think.


﻿DIED.—In this city. May 24th,1889, of injuries
received by being thrown from a wagon; John Y.
Green, aged 53 years, 8 months and 3 days. He
was the youngest son of John P. Greene and
Rhoda Young, who were known in the early
days of the Church as staunch and true friends
of the Prophet Joseph Smith. He also became
a member of the Church at an early age, and
was one of the company of Pioneers to Utah,
and he died in faith of the Gospel. A kind and
loving husband and father; he has left a wife
and nine children, and numerous relatives and
friends to mourn his loss.—[COM.


12		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six month
1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertisin
rates. Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, on
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount t
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple St[-]eet. Business hours
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JUNE 15, 1880.


[Column 1]
VISIT TO BRIGHAM CITY.

	MONDAY afternoon, June 7th, in company
with Sister E. R. Snow Smith, we left home
en route for Brigham City, to attend the Sisters'
Conference of Box Elder Stake of Zion. We ar-
rived safely about eight o'clock the same even-
ing, at the residence of Apostle Lorenzo Snow.
It is a large rambling, old-fashioned house, and
reminds one of the country homes of New
England. We were both warmly welcomed,
and in fact Sister Eliza is most fondly and af-
fectionately cherished by all the residents of
this unique town, as a sort of godmother, and of 
course this alone would secure a welcome for any
one accompanying her.
	Tuesday morning at 10 o'clock, the Confer-
ence convened in the Court House, Mrs. Har-
riet A. Snow presiding. On the platform were
many of the presidents and other officers of the
several branches of womens' organizations from
the different parts of the County, Sisters Annie
Sawyer and Elvira Harrison, Malad, M. A.
Hubbard, Willard, and many other sisters from
a distance, earnest and zealous workers in the 
the cause of woman's progress and elevation.
	The morning was partly occupied in reading
Relief Society reports, after which, by request,
the meeting was addressed by the sisters from
Salt Lake City. In the afternoon the several
presidents of Relief Societies gave verbal reports,
and bore strong testimonies of the truth of the
Gospel and their interest in the work of reforma-
tion and redemption in these "latter days."
Apostle Lorenzo Snow and Pres. Joseph Young,
Sen., each made encouraging and interest-
ing remarks, and "Sister Eliza" made a most
eloquent appeal to mothers and in fact all, in
regard to sustaining home industries and living
above every trial and thus obtaining victory over
self and the powers of darkness.
	After the meeting had adjourned we were in-
vited to visit the young ladies' bazar, in the
lower hall of the building. This bazar was all
composed of home-made, fancy and useful arti-
cles, made by the young women of the Mutual
Improvement Association of the Third Ward,
and the object was to get money to purchase
books for a society library. The president of 
this Association, Mrs. Amy Maddison, is a
most energetic and faithful worker in the ad-
vancement of all that pertains to the interest
and welfare of the young sisters. The articles
are good and many of them are very pretty.
These young ladies certainly deserve great credit
for their industry, and the young ladies in other
localities who have had better opportunities
might well imitate their example.
	Wednesday morning, the Y. L. M. I. A. Con-
ference commenced, Mrs. Minnie J. Snow pre-
siding. The platform was nearly filled with
officers from the several Young Ladies' Associa-

[Column 2]
tions in that Stake. And we are proud and
thankful to say these young women are most
earnestly devoting themselves to the higher
elevation of humanity, and ably working to
promote the interests of Christ's kingdom upon
the earth. The reports from branch Associa-
tions were indeed gratifying, and the secretary,
Miss Lydia Snow, reflected credit upon herself,
and dignified the position by the manner in
which she performed her special part, of the
exercises. After the reports had all been read,
the Stake President of the Y. L., Mrs. Minnie
J. Snow, addressed the meeting in a very able
manner; she was followed by others, each and
all of them manifesting a spirit of obedience,
humility and nobility in strict keeping with the
Gospel and its divine teachings. The sisters
from Salt Lake also addressed the young ladies,
speaking upon culture of mind, manners and
heart, and dwelt much upon the deleterious ef-
fects of novel reading and light literature.
	Taken as a whole, the remarks of the young
ladies in that Conference far surpassed anything
we have ever heard from the young at any con-
ference; they were full of intelligence, and wis-
dom, and the spirit of improvement, and were
truly encouraging.
	The afternoon of the second day was devoted
to the Primary Associations, and after the re-
ports were read, the presidents reported verbally,
and many excellent things were said in the very
best spirit and manner. Mrs. Lizzie M. Felt,
who is counselor in the Primary Association of
the 11th Ward in this city, was present, and
was called upon to speak. She responded in a
very happy manner, and her remarks were in-
teresting and edifying to all. Several speeches
were made, which were both eloquent and
inspiring, and the Conference adjourned for
three months.
	At five o'clock the same evening about four
hundred children assembled at the Court House,
and this meeting was indeed a feast to all. These
conferences for the children are not only inspir-
ing to the little folks, but to all who are interested
in the future welfare of Israel.


[Column 1]
LETTER WRITING.

	Letter writing is spoken of frequently as an
"art" as an accomplishment and so forth, but
certain it is that a correspondence between per-
sons of intelligence and education is decidedly
beneficial as well as pleasurable. Most people
know how delightful it is to receive letters that
contain not only news,but ideas and sentiments
fresh from the heart's inner fountain no inter-
mingling with other peoples fancies but genuine
effusions thrown off at the point of the pen, in
an unaffected and simple style that goes direct
to the heart of the recipient of the favor. This
is a part of the education of the young that
should not be neglected,and it is something that
can be acquired with little expense, and by oc-
casional practise one may become quite an adept
in the art of letter writing. We do not wish to 
be understood as advising promiscuous corre-
spondence, far from it, but to be able to give
pleasure, comfort and consolation to those we
love when separated from them, by means of
epistles which will convey in the best manner
possible our true sentiments, is something des-
irable for all, who wish to do good and promote
other's happiness. The gift of conversation is
one which almost all desire, that they may con-
vey to others in a pleasing manner their thoughts
and make themselves thoroughly understood,
but less is thought of the efficiency and profi-
ciency of letter writing. "Well I shall seldom
have occasion to write letters and do not need any
preparation for that," is the general idea, but it

[Column 2]
should in my opinion form a part of every child's 
education.
	I have always thought it a good plan to inter-
mingle correspondence with compositions, that
is in selecting subjects for pupils, give them a
chance to write letters occasionally, either to
friends, or unknown persons, intended only to
be criticised, as other essays and compositions
are. This gives to the child an idea of correct-
ness of style in addressing persons, and of the
manner of expression also. Use the choicest
words, there are a great variety of words in our
language, and the very best should always be
selected. This is good discipline for the young.
	There are some things which should always be
carefully observed in letter writing. Always
write respectfully and so construct your sent-
ences as to make your true meaning, perfectly
clear. Respect for one's self as well as the per-
son addressed should always characterize a
letter, and such being the case no letter will be
carelessly worded. Simplicity of expression is
much more elegant, and, indicates greater re-
finement and culture than the more elaborate
forms of composing. Whatever the subject of
your letter preserve your own originality of
thought, and write as if you were speaking as
nearly as possible. Bear in mind too, that your
letter may perchance fall into other hands than
those of the person for whom it was written and
affect you and perhaps others to a greater, or
less extent for good or ill. There is one import-
ant thing which should be strictly observed by
all, and that is never to notice an anonymous
letter. The art of letter writing although one of 
the greatest blessings, is often subverted to most
wicked purposes. There is scarcely any blessing
we enjoy in this life, but has its "other side,"
and perhaps no accomplishment has ever been
productive of more evil than that of being able
to write fascinatingly.
	Letters are preserved for generations some-
times, in fact it is quite common to keep them
for years, and long after the hand that penned
the faded lines is cold in the silent tomb, they
are capable of bringing back tender remem-
berances,and calling up familiar scenes,and sweet
associations, and are thus silent messengers
coming back to us as it were to offer consolation
and revive our friendship for the loved ones
of "other days." Who is there in this age of ed-
ucational culture, who has not packed away
in some quiet corner a bundle, or two, or more
of old letters, that are worth more to the pes-
sessor than their weight in gold. Methinks
there are many of these precious letter parcels
tucked away here and there tied with a faded
ribbon, that the very sight,or touch of is sacred.
Jewels could not produce the sensation of hap-
piness, or so inspire the heart, as do these same
poor, silent treasures. Their worth cannot be
estimated. Then how particular we should be
in addressing our friends, never to wound by a
single word, or hint, for long afterwards it may
reawaken, evil or unpleasant feelings, which
might otherwise have sunk into oblivion. Let
us give all the comfort, all the pleasure we can,
through this prolific source of bestowing happi-
ness. To the young especially, I would say
 remember that through this channel of com-
munication, (letter-writing) you may do great
good to your friends, or even hand down your
name to the future.					AUNT EM.


SPEEDY AND SURE.—The Journal of Com-
merce, Boston, says; "As a speedy and sure
cure this (Warner's Safe Kidney and Liver
Cure) remedy is "Safe," and the cases wherein
it misses are those beyond the reach of human
relief."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		13


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY OF ONE OF
OUR OLDEST VETERANS.

	Thursday June 10th a few friends assembled
at the house of our old and long tried friend Sis-
ter Vienna Jacques to offer her congratulations
upon her arriving at her 94th natal day.
	A number of distinguished ladies intended
paying her their respects, but duty called them
elsewhere.

	The old lady's apparent lease of life and vigor
is remarkable still and bids fair to give us all the
rare privilege of beholding one having lived an
hundred years.

	The erectness of her carriage is sufficient to fill
many of the Misses of the nineteenth century
with envy. May she live as long as she desires,
and may the angel of the Lord preserve her from
all evil both seen and unseen is the prayer of all
her numerous friends.				R. B. P.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Sisters' Stake Conference in Tooele Count-
ty was held on Saturday and Sunday, June 12th
and 13th. Mrs. Rachel R. Grant, of Salt Lake
City, attended the meetings.

	Mesdames M. Isabella Horne and S. M. Hey-
wood visited South Jordan and several other
Wards in this county in the interest of sisters'
organizations, June 10th, 11th and 12th.

	WE have received newspaper notices in full
almost of the Convention of the N. W. S. A.
held in Indianapolis, Ind., May 26th and 27th,
but we cannot find room at present for more
than the resolutions adopted by the convention.

	THE Primary Hymn Book for the children,
edited by Eliza R. Snow Smith, is now in the
hands of the publishers. It will contain 128
pages, and will, it is expected, be sold so reason-
ably that all the children in the Territory can
have one.

	THE air is heavy laden with the breath of
June roses, fragrant honeysuckle and other deli-
cious perfumes. These with the charming sun-
sets, the clear sparkling rills, and other delight-
ful features of the scenery in this sequestered
vale in the "tops of the mountains," gladden the
heart and refresh the soul.

	WHO is to be b e the next President of the
United States? is the popular question now agi-
tating the public mind. The nomination of
General Garfield by the Republican party has
taken the people by surprise, so also, perchance,
may the nomination of the Democratic candi-
date. There are many surprising as well as won-
derful things happening nowadays, and none can
tell what a day may bring forth.


WOMAN'S CONVENTION.

	The National Woman Suffrage Association
held its annual meeting May 26th and 27th, ac-
cording to appointment, in Indianapolis, Indiana.
In absence of the President, Mrs. Stanton, Miss
Anthony, Vice-President-at-large presided. The
ladies were earnest in their work and system-
atic in the manner of conducting the business of
the convention.
	Mrs. Gage, chairman of committee on resolu-
tions, reported the following platform and reso-
lutions:
	The National Woman Suffrage Association is
an organization with the special object of secur-
ing national protection for women citizens in the
exercise of the right of suffrage. It recognizes
the fact that our government was framed on the
political basis of the consent of the governed as
the security of all rights, and that the Declara-
tion of Independence struck a blow at every ex-
isting form of government, by declaring the in-
dividual to be the source of all power, upon
which newly proclaimed truth .. our nation rose.
The members of this association, outside of our
great question, hold diverse political beliefs and
affiliations, but for the purpose of gaining their
great right to the ballot, its members hold their
party predilections in abeyance; therefore,
Resolved, That in this year of presidential
nominations and political campaigns, we an-
nounce our determination to support no party by
whatever name called, unless such party shall
in its platfo[-]m first, emphatically endorse; and
W[-]ERE[-]S, Self-government carries - with it
the right to examine and control all great re-

[Column 2]
formatory and governmental questions as shown
in the United States, by the use of the ballot,
which has raised us in influence and power to
the first rank as a nation, and rendered us the
hope of all oppressed, down-trodden people of the
earth; broadening and developing all grades of
native and foreign born men, in whose hand the
ballot has been placed; and
	WHEREAS, The interests and welfare of both
men and women in all the relations of life are
identical, and whatever affects one class, for
either good or evil, also affects the other in the
same manner and in the same proportion; there-
fore,
	Resolved, That what the ballot has done for
man, native and foreign-born, it is equally capa-
ble of doing for woman, and we demand it as a
means of self-culture as well as a security for
our inherent rights of self-government.
	WHEREAS, The era of force is rapidly giving
way to the era of intellectual and moral power,
as shown in the substitution of arbitration for
war; in the proposed disarmament of Europe; in
the great industrial expositions of various coun-
tries, which bring the people of different nations
into acquaintance and harmony; in the spread of
commerce touching every distant and savage
tribe; in the explorations which leave no part of
the globe untrod; in the rapid strides of the rail-
road and telegraph; in the advance of science;
in the general diffusion of knowledge; and
	WHEREAS, The opinions of women are power-
ful upon these questions; and
	WHEREAS, The Woman Suffrage movement
does not arise from personal grievances, but is a
question of human right in exact union with the
announced principles of our government; there-
fore,
	Resolved, That we demand the practical appli-
cation of those principles to the women citizens
of the nation, who not only compose one-half of
the people, but who are acknowledged to pre-
eminently carry with them the great moral
forces which are now so rapidly coming to gov-
ern the world; thus securing responsible recog-
nition of woman's opinions upon all the great
questions which rise for discussion and settle-
ment.
	Resolved, That the present stage of the Wo-
man Suffrage movement is practical, and the
duty of Woman is to take the position and as-
sume the responsibility of citizenship as far as is
possible
	Resolved, That republican government depends
for stability upon the full representation and en-
lightenment of all citizens, and the people, wo-
men as well as men, can safely be trusted to re-
present themselves.
	Resolved, That we hail with delight the ad-
vance of public sentiment among all classes in
favor of Woman's enfranchisement, and es-
pecially do we view with profound thankfulness
the growing conviction in the minds of "Chris-
tian temperance women" of their need of the
ballot, and of the duty and responsibility rest-
ing upon them to labor for its possession in
order that they may more effectively work for
those reforms in legislation which so vitally
concerns the welfare of their homes, and of so-
ciety.
	Elizabeth Boynton Harbert, of the Chicago
Inter-Ocean recited her poem entitled, "The
Coming Man." Addresses were made by
Mesdames Sara Andrews Spencer, Matilda
Joslyn Gage, Lillie Devereux Blake, Miss Mary
B. Clay and Mrs. E. L. Saxon.
	The following resolutions were also presented
on the second day:
	Resolved, That human rights are inherent in
human nature, and the inalienable right to life
and liberty can never be rightfully surrendered
to majorities, in despotisms, nor in republics, nor
dependent on the will of any government. And
so freedom is not less a duty and obligation than
a right.
	Resolved, That the right to see comes with
the eye and the sight; as the right to breathe
with the lungs and the air, and the right to lib-
erty is no less divinely guaranteed to every
human being possessing the qualities and attri-
butes necessary to constitute an intelligent,
moral and responsible being.
	Resolved, That no man was ever born with
three ballots in his hand—one for himself as a
birthright, the other to be given, as a boon, to
his wife or daughter, or withheld as his caprice,
convenience, or despotic choice might dictate.

[Column 3]
And any such claim by man, or a government
of men, is highhanded robbery to be resisted at
whatever cost.
	Resolved, That taxation without representa-
tion is no less tyranny to-day than a hundred
years ago; is even more tyrannical when im-
posed on women than it could have been when
suffered at the hand of a distant and despotic
government of our revolutionary ancestors.
	Resolved, That while the women of Massa-
chusetts are favored by careful computation, to
be paying annually one-eleventh part of all the
taxes imposed on that Commonwealth, and the 
women of Connecticut nearly if not quite the
same, we can but approve and admire the devo-
tion to principle of Abby Kelly Foster, of the
former, and Julia and Abby Smith, of the lat-
ter State, for refusing voluntary payment of
such cruelly and unjustly levied impositions,
though always at great pecuniary sacrifice and
loss. Nor can any reason be given why. Had
they a General Lafayette to come to the rescue,
as to the aid of George Washington in the war
of 1775, their own homesteads should not be
made the Lexington and Bunker hill of another
revolution, the most righteous war recorded in
the history of the human race.
	Resolved, That the rapid advance in public
sentiment and State legislation, upon the rights
of women, and the respect shown by Congress,
indicate that our demands are in harmony, with
the spirit of the age, and that the political party
that opposes the civil and political equality of
women will have a brief lease of power.
	Resolved, That granting to women the right
of Suffrage in so many states and municipalities
on questions of education, and the means and
methods for suppressing the frightful evils of in-
temperance, has forever answered all questions,
principles or expediency as to Woman's fitness
and capability to exercise that right; and we
hold it as most undeniable that if Woman
shonld be permitted to vote for laws to protect
her sons from drunkenness, she should have
equal voice in legislation to preserve her daugh-
ters from those dreadful dangers to which they
are every day becoming more and more ex-
posed through the unbridled and insatiable lust
of men. Nor has the law-making power to-day
one single valid reason to urge w[--]y women
should not be permitted to exercise all the
rights, and assume at once all the responsib-
ities of equal citizenship.
	Resolved, That the thanks of this association
are hereby tendered to the Republican party in
Congress, for requesting the national committee
to provide seventy-six seats for women delegates
in the Chicago presidential convention.
	And our thanks are especially due to Hon.
Thomas W. Ferry, of the Sentate, and to Hon.
Edwin Willetts, of the House of Representa-
tives, for advocating this provision for women.
	Resolved, That we are a nation and not a con-
federacy of states; that we are all citizens first of
the United States, and second of the States
wherein we reside. Hence the right of self-
government should be guaranteed by the nation-
al constitution to all citizens, and should be
protected by the ballot everywhere under our
flag.
	Whereas, The women of the land, defrauded
of their earnings and of their personal liberty,
can not educate the 20,000,000 of men concern-
ing their rights as citizens; and
	Whereas, Whenever State legislatures have
submitted our rights to the rank, and file of the
men of a State, the solid liquor interest and the
kindred forces combine to defeat us; and
	Whereas, To enfranchise the women of one
State does not establish woman's rights as a
United States citizen to vote; therefore,
	Resolved, That it is the duty of Congress to
submit to the legislatures of the several States
an amendment to the national constitution,
securing women citizens the right of suffrage.
	Whereas, A nation's chief wealth does not con-
sist alone in its material resources, but also its
love of justice, and its desire to secure equality of 
opportunity and rights to all; therefore,
	Resolved, That corruption in politics, the
decline of patriotism, the lack of justice and the
prevalence of sentiment of disloyalty, which now
endangers the life of the republic are traceable
to withholding from women all participation in
the affairs of government, and since the child
is influenced by the condition of the mother and
its first training comes from her, therefore wo-
man's absolute freedom from all restraint upon
her powers, as well as her endowment with all
the rights of citizenship, is not only imperative-
ly necessary for the perpetuation of our free in-
stitutions, but for the securing of a higher type
of humanity.


14		WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.

	A brief report of Portage Relief Society, Box
Elder County. We held our annual meeting on
the 15th of May. The following officers were
elected and unanimously sustained: Mrs. Lu-
cinda Hoskin, President; Mrs. Julia A. Gibbs
and Mrs. Margaret John, Counselors; Jane H.
John, Secretary; Eliza A. Hall, Asst. Sec'y;
Jane Hall, Treasurer. There are about forty
members enrolled, we meet every two weeks
and enjoy a goodly portion of the Spirit of the
Lord. Our society is in a flourishing condition,
our meetings are well attended and we are often
blest with the encouraging remarks of our worthy
Bishop, O. C. Hoskin and his assistants, and we
feel like doing all in our power to held build up
the Kingdom of God. The sisters of our Society
are trying to carry out the counsel of the autho-
rities of the Church in storing grain, for we
know it will be our salvation in days to come.
Our crops for the last two or three years have
been cut off by frost, grasshoppers and crickets,
and it is rather a hard matter to lay up grain
where there is none, but we intend to try, try
again; and hope in time to succeed. The breth-
ren are now at work on a water ditch, which,
when completed, will be a great benefit to this
settlement, as water is very scarce in this part of
the valley. We have a week day and Sunday
School, a Young Men's and Young Ladies' Mu-
tual Improvement Association. We are also
called upon to donate means to assist in build-
ing the Temple in Logan, and it is our desire to
re[-]pond to every call made by the servants of the
Lord. In conclusion, I will say that the Expo-
nent is an ever welcome visitor and is highly ap-
preciated; we read it in our meetings and are
greatly benefitted by its valuable instructions.
May God bless the noble women that spend their
time and talents in helping to roll forth this
mighty work, is the prayer of
			Your sister in the Gospel,
					ELIZA A. HALL, Sec'y.

BEAVER.

	The first Ladies conference of the Beaver
Stake of Zion convened at Beaver in the meet-
ing house, May 14th, 1880. Present on the
stand were the several presidents and counselors
of the several branches of this Stake President
Lucinda Houd presided over the Conference.
President John Ashworth and several other
brethren met with the sisters and manifested a
liberal disposition to aid the ladies in their good
work.
	Reports of the different branches were handed
in. The societies of the Y. L. M. I. were well
represented, as also was the Primary Associa-
tion of the Beaver Branches. Two days were
spent by the sisters in this interesting capacity.
	Statistical and financial report of Beaver
Stake for the year ending May 14th, 1880. Mem-
bers, total, 207; real estate, $2,822.50; capital
stock in co-op. store, $100; wheat loaned out,
274 bushels; disbursements to the poor, $30.80.
			FLORA S. HILL, Stake Secretary.


[Column 1]
PRIMARY REPORTS.

	The first annual meeting of the Primary As-
sociation of Samaria was held Thursday evening,
May 6th, 1880. A large audience convened—
several of the Priesthood of the ward were
among the number. The evening entertain-
ment consisted of songs, recitations and dia-
logues. Six of the little ones, under ten years
of age, gave a very nice dialogue on Spring, four
others gave a dialogue entitled, "The Bound
Girl," and one little girl, eight years old read
the chapter from the New Testament, which
speaks of the widow's mite, and, although the
house was crowded every word was distinctly
heard to the other end of the room. We have
also made a commencement in the straw busi-
ness and several of the little girls have learned
to braid straw and they wear hats braided by
their own hands, and I am happy to say that
several of the children have taken Sister Eliza
Snow's counsel—when they had five cents
given them they have put it into the Association
and by that means have raised enough to buy
blocks for the straw they braid. they are
anxious to attend their meetings, and when I
am unable to attend through sickness, the old-
est of the little girls will carry on the meeting,
and feels glad to do so, and when the minutes of
that meeting have been read I have been truly
gratified to hear them. I often look back to the
time they were organized and feel grateful to

[Column 2]
my Heavenly Father for the progress they have
made. It is true it seems slow work with the
little ones while laboring with them, but I feel
thankful to the Lord for the assistance of his
Holy Spirit enabling us to persevere in this
great work, realizing the time will come when
these little ones will stand forth battling for
truth against error; then will their petitions as-
cend to God our Heavenly Father for blessings
upon those that organized them and those who
have labored with them, teaching them the
laws of God, preserving them from wolves in
sheeps' clothing who seek to draw the young
from the fold, and who try to bring destruction
upon the people of God. To mothers I would
say, encourage your little ones to attend their
meetings, attending them also yourselves; do
not think it too much trouble, they will repay
you in the future, becoming bright and shining
lights, crowned with immortality and eternal
lives: may our Heavenly Father bless all that
labor with the young and rising generation is
the prayer of your co-laborer,
							AMY DAVIS.

RICHMOND.

	Yearly report of the Primary Association of
Richmond, beginning June 1st, 1879, and ending
June 1st, 1880: Received in donations from mem-
bers, $3.90; Received January 1st, 1880, on pro-
ceeds of Primary dance, $9.00. Disbursements:
Paper and pencil, 20c.; Paper, 20c.; Candy for
children, $2.35; To poor, $3.50; Cards for mem-
bers. $3.15; Total amount received, $12.90; Total
amound disbursed, $9.40; Remaining in treasury,
$3.50. Our yearly concert was well attended
and a good spirit prevailed. The children enter-
tained us with a choice selection of songs, reci-
tations and dialogues, which were weli prepared
for the occasion. I must make mention of two
little boys of Brother Monson's, one six and the
other seven years of age, who sang "Our lovely
Deseret," with such earnestness that they were
highly applauded. President Brown sang a
song composed for the occasion on "Brigham
Young pioneering the Saints to the West."
Brother A. C. Brower made very instructive re-
marks to the children, and also Brother Gibbs
gave us some good advice. Brother Whitehead,
our organist, was in attendance, and we had a
general good time. "Closed with singing, "Al.
ways Cheerful." Prayer by President H. Brow-
er. H. Brower, President; M. Monson, Vice-
President; M. W. Thompson and E. Jarvis,
Counselors.				M. A. WEBB, Secretary.

	The Primary Association of East Bountiful,
held their first Annual Meeting in the Taber-
nacle, April 19th, 1880. There were present,
President Anson Call, Counselor William Thur-
good, William Muir and several more of the
brethren. Sister E. R. Snow and others were
expected but did not come, which was a great
disappointment. There were quite a number
present. We had recitations and singing from
the children, also some very good instructions
from President Call, Counselor Thurgood and
William Muir.
	The President of the Association made some
very appropriate remarks; after the close of the
meeting, there were presents distributed among
the children to the amount of $27,30, consisting
of 38 Diamond Dictionaries, two Child's Natural
Histories, twelve of George Q. Cannon's "First
Mission" and other books and cards for the
smaller children.
	About six weeks ago,some of the larger children
of the Association got up a surprise party, and
went to President Ann Dustan's and presented
her with a set of glass dishes, as a token of re-
spect; also, three pairs of dishes to the Counsel-
ors and Secretary.
	The children seem to be progressing very well.
Many of the children manifest a willingness,
when called upon, to speak or dismiss meetings.
						OLIVE C. SESSIONS.


[Column 1]
A STORM IN THE MEDITERRANEAN.

[In the very region of St. Paul's shipwreck.]

	The following is an extract from a letter re-
ceived by Dr. Ellen B. Ferguson, of this city,
from her sister, a missionary in Palestine,
in charge of the Episcopalian Orphanage at
Nazareth—

	Sunday, Sept. 21, 1879.—Mrs. G. and I had
been early to bed the previous evening, with a
view to being also early to rise, as the sailors had
told us we might expect to pass Messina about 6

[Column 2]
o'clock the next morning, and had planned such
nice readings and talks; the glorious weather we
had all the way from Marseilles having led us to
forget two important factors in our reckoning;
now if we make any plan we are careful to say
wind and weather permitting. The view when
we went on to the upper deck was magnificent.
The rocky coasts of Italy and Sicily on either
hand. I read the Litany, Psalms, etc., for the
day to Mrs. G., but there was a heavy ground
swell on, and we thought we had better find a
more comfortable seat than the one we had been
occupying. Mrs. G. went down to the cabin for
something she required, but did not return, and
by the time I had begun to wonder at her long
absence, I found it more prudent to remain
quiet myself. I had not been ill all the
way and did not wish to run any risk.
The wind increased continually and the
heavy clouds ahead of us soon burst in
sharp showers; while thunder was heard in the
distance. The storm raged fiercer; suddenly we
seemed to be enveloped in hissing, crackling
flames and roaring sound. Every one sprang
up and looked first at each other and then
round at the vessel. There seemed to be great
commotion among the sailors, a number of them
rushed to one particular spot and one whispered
to me under his breath, "la pondre." The en-
gines now stopped while the vessel was being
examined and as no injury was found anywhere
it was concluded that the electric current had
been diverted into the sea, though even the
Captian said he could not be sure it had not
passed by the conductor attached to the mast.
Before this announcement was made I went
down to the saloon to look for Mrs. G. whom I
found in her favorite corner not much alarmed,
having only heard a tremendous clap of thun-
der. I stayed with her a little while and then
went back to the upper deck. There the French
Dr. attached to the ship came and congratulated
me on my courage, which gave me an opportu-
nity of commencing a conversation with him that
lasted nearly two hours. He confessed
to being totally ignorant in matters
of religion, but promised to read anything that
I gave him. I soon found that he was a red-hot
Democrat. I wished I had had a French Bible,
but fortunately I found the Gospel of St.
Matthew and a little tract in French. I said to
the Doctor, I hoped the storm was over. "No,
madame," he replied, "it has not yet commenc-
ed." At this time the sun shining brilliantly,
the sea was a more exquisite blue than it had
been even at Naples; any ultramarine ever put
on canvass would be only a mockery of it. Soon
there followed a lurid calm, sweltering, suffocat-
ing heat, and how I longed for one breath of the
winds of God. They came indeed before long in
fitful gusts at first, but later on, in terrible fury.
The roof of the saloon forms the upper deck
which is covered in fair weather by an awning.
When the sailors came to take this in we knew
what to expect, and the steward advised us to
descend if we did not wish to be drenched. In
the saloon we found Mrs. Zunacool, a Greek
lady, and her little girl in a state of extreme
terror on account of the light which was flash-
ing incessantly all around us on the horizon. As
the Captain passed the door, madame begged
him to come in and reassure the child. He said
the weather would not be worse than it was
then, but I think I should have known from his
manner that this was false even if experience
had not taught me that sailors, like doctors,
think it their duty to suppress unpleasant truths.
As the darknes gathered the lightning became
more vivid. For some time the wind had been
shifting to all points of the compass, driving up
the clouds all around us, when we were thor-
oughly enveloped it settled behind us, and for
six hours pursued our now little shivering
vessel like a lurid, stinging flame. When I
speak of incessant lightning I mean incessant,
for it was only about every three or five minutes
that there was sufficient interval between the
flashes to show the blackness of darkness that
reigned in their absence. Sometimes the light
was mauve, sometimes greenish, producing most
magnificent effects on the white foaming waves.
Suddenly it seemed as if we were surrounded by
by batteries of artillery all concentrating their
fire upon us, and the bullets rattling and crash-
ing all around us but especially on the roof of the
saloon. It was no use asking what was the
matter, for no voice could be heard. I went to
the door and met a gentleman entering with a
hailstone in his hand, a solid cube of ice, at
least 1½ inches every way. Later on the second
officer brought in some the size of an ordinary
egg. Till now I had not seen one [--] the flashes of
lightning and it was a sight neve[-] to be forgot-


[Column 1]
ten. I can compare them to nothing but quiv-
ering cataracts of molten fire poured from the
clouds into the sea. As there was nothing to
cause reverberation the thunder was not extra-
ordinary, but we knew that every single clap
meant one of the fiery cataracts descending on
one or the other side of us. There was one gen-
tleman in a state of the most abject terror, and
when complimented by some of the other pas-
sengers on my courage I was glad to be able to
bear testimony to the power that was keep-
ing me not only safe but calm; we remained
up stairs until the saloon was closed for the
night, about 11 o'clock, but though the storm
had somewhat abated, there was no chance of
sleeping, for the fog signals were shrieking and
roaring every few minutes. Imagine if you can
with what feeling we read the psalm for the
day (107th.) "They that go down to the sea in
ships," etc. "These see the works of the Lord
and his wonders in the deep."
	How often I had pictured to myself our arrival
in the "Morning Land," and how sure I felt all
the time, that the reality would be something
quite different from any of my pictures, and so
it was.
	The Austrian Lloyd's steamer Oreste, in which
we embarked at Port Said, contrasted most em-
phatically with La Leyne of the Messageries, at
sea or at anchor, she was equally unpleasant, and
poor Mrs. Gilbert was ill from the first and all
the time. I, though not actually ill, never felt
sufficiently at ease for sketching, hardly for
reading. At Jaffa, where we touched early on
Monday 6th, a whole colony of Germans came
on board, and made a genuine picnic on the
deck, conspicuous among them a bridal pair
whom we afterwards found to be Dr. Schmidt
(British Consut at Halifax) and his bride, re-
turning from the wedding. Both then and
since Dr. Schmidt has been extremely kind and
useful, especially in getting my packing cases
through the custom house. I wish I could give
you any idea of the scene at the moment
when the invading army of Arabs
that swarm around a vessel arriving in
port are permitted to swoop upon the prey, the
unlucky passengers. They come round about you
like bees, not being allowed in the saloon or the
cabins, they stand at the door craning their long
brown necks inside, and jabber and yell and
stretch out their long lean arms and clutch at
you with their skinny fingers. How thankful
we were on arriving at Haifa about sunset to
learn from Yusuf Souidan, the agent, who came
on board, that Mr. Bellamy and Mr. Huber were
waiting for us on the shore, and to be put in
charge of Mr. Duck, a German gentleman, so
that we were not left at the mercy of those
frantic Arabs.
	It is their pleasing practice when they have you
safe in the small boat and half way between the
steamer and the land to cease from rowing and
refuse to proceed till you give or promise an ex-
orbitant "backsheesh." Poor Mrs. Gilbert, who
had left the steamer in a partially limp and bat-
tered condition, was now almost fainting and
would heve been an easy prey, but Mr. Duck of
course would not stand any nonsense. He was
telling me that we could only reach the land by
being carried on the back of an Arab, when we
found ourselves aground in the surf, and again
surrounded by swarms of yelling Arabs. I
was trying to explain the situation to
Mrs. G. when we saw Mr. Duck go over the side
and had only time to remark that his figure as
he disappeared in the darkness was not digni-
fied, when we also were seized by long brown
arms, and invited to "Get on my back Missus."
So over we went, and I had not thought much
about anything but keeping my toes out of the
water, when I was deposited on terra firma,
and a cheery voice enquired out of the darkness,
"Is that Mrs. Gilbert or Miss Brook?" Having
proclaimed my identity, I was most warmly
welcomed by Mr. Bellamy and then by Mr.
Huber, and then we turned to look, or rather
feel for Mrs. Gilbert, and soon we were jolting
off to the hotel of the German Colony in a wagon
of primitive construction. How thankful we
were to sink down, at last, in a fresh, clean bed,
and how little we cared that the floor of our
room was of pebbles and flints, and the appoint-
ments of the plainest and roughest. Everything
that night was German, and not till the morn-
ing did we realize the "Morning Land," when
we looked out on Carmel, with its monastery,
and the sweep of the Bay of Aere, with its white
houses and fringe of palm trees on the blue Me-
diterranean, with its white winged vessels gleam-
ing in the radiant sunshine, and over all the
dazzling Syrian blue. Mrs. G. made a sketch of

[Column 2]
it all, after breakfast while I was finish-
ing my letters for the mail. We intended
to start at 10 a.m. but did not get fairly off till
an hour later, a delay which we had reason to
regret at the end of the journey. The one ve-
hicle of Haifa, which has any features of a car-
riage, had been secured for us and the wagon
for our luggage. Our mounted escort consisted
of Mr. Huber, Mr. Bellany and the Houri
Jerins, the native C. M. S. clergyman from
Mujadel who had ridden in some fifteen miles to
greet us. The one decent road in the country is
that made by the German's of the colony from
Haifa to Nazareth but one does not duly esti-
mate its superiority till after trying a few of
the other roads. To us it seemed more like a
track through an illimitable stone quarry than a
road. Quitting the shores of the Great Sea we
found the region increasingly wild, stony and
barren. The Kishon at this time of the year is
merely a trickling stream and after crossing it
we went on for miles over the sandy, stony,
burning plain, passing here and there a few
goats or oxen grazing on the bare sand as it
seemed, for we could not perceive a blade of
grass anywhere. Not a cloud in all the
expanse of blue, and the sun shining
in his strength. With what force the
words of the prophet came to our minds, "The
shadows of a great rock in a weary land" as we
looked at the deep blue shadow away on the
sides of the Carmel range. We did not feel the
heat as much as we should have done but for
our experience in Cairo and the Desert.
	After about two hours on the plain we reached
the oak forest, which was very disappointing.
The Arabs from far and near have all these cen-
turies been cutting at it for firewood, and as the
idea of planting young trees to take the place of
the old ones has never entered their heads, it is
not surprising that it did not come up to our idea
of a forest. Under the half way oak, one of the
largest of the trees, we dismounted, the horses
were unharnessed and taken into the shade with
their nose bags, and Mr. Huber refreshed us
with bread and cheese, grapes and impromptu
lemonade. Here it was that a young English
gentleman named Gale, who had rashly set out
to walk to Haifa by himself, was murdered
about two years ago, and his remains only found
when search was made on his being missed, a
fortnight later. "Here is my friend" he said,
when taking leave of Miss Tanner; show-
ing a splendid revolver, and for the sake
of this "friend," it is believed that
he was killed, stunned first by a blow from
behind while he was resting under the tree.
	When we were again en route, the Houri rode
forward to prepare his wife for our approach, and
she, having first ordered her house for visitors,
mounted her husband's horse and came out
about half a mile to meet and welcome us.
Leaving the horse with an attendant, she
mounted to the seat between us on the carriage
and kissed us on both cheeks. It was a some-
what embarassing interview, as after the first
exchange of courtesies, our intercourse was
limited to smiles and nods, and I was glad when
we alighted at Mujadel. The place and our recep-
tion there I must describe in full

THE ORPHANAGE.

	Nazareth, Oct. 27, Thermometer, in my room
75, in the sun 100.
	The illustration in Farrer's "Life of Christ,"
"Nazareth from the southwest," gives a good
idea of the situation of this fine building which
is often called the palace and such it is by com-
parison with anything to be seen in this part of
the Holy Land. From the delightful balcony,
on to which the large hall opens, we have a
view which I imagine is hardly to be equalled,
and we often watch a few moments at sunrise,
sunset, moon or starlight as well as during the
"all golden" days and feast upon it. There lies
the town with its flat white roofs surrounded by
its amphitheatre of hills. Beyond the hills south-
ward stretches the plain of Esdradon, bounded
by the hills of Samaria, and eastward a succes-
sion of hills, then the Jordan Valley, and then
again the hills of Gilead and Moab distinctly
visible through the "diaphanous air." It is all
lovely even now when the slopes are parched
and brown, what would it be in early spring?
Come back to the house and let me show you
the large lofty apartments, the immense hall
in the centre of the building intended as a din-
ing hall, when the funds shall allow of the
place being filled, the dormitories with their
long rows of little white beds. On the other
our bed-rooms and sitting-rooms, all with mar-
ble floors and all spotlessly clean; cleanliness

[Column 3]
and order are the Lares and Penates of the in-
stitution and a grand lesson it is for these Arabs
whose life is passed in indescribable dirt and
disorder, to show them over the place. There
is room for 100 girls but only beds for 35. If any
one would like to do a real kindness let them
them send us £12 for a bed a year for three
years and we shall be able to take in one of the
fifty poor little creatures for whom application
has been made, or if they cannot do so much the
£2 for an additional bed. It is a sight for "sair cen"
to see the procession of 36 brownies in their
pink print frocks and white muslin veils wend-
ing down the narrow, steep, dirty, stony streets
of Nazareth on their way to church, and a sad
contrast to look at the swarms of grinning, rag-
ged little street Arabs who stand back against
the walls to watch them pass. These 36 girls,
ranging from 4 to 16 years of age, are taught to
read and write and are made thoroughly ac-
quainted with the Scriptures. Those who have
sufficient ability are taught English and trained
as teachers. There are only two servants.

To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE

Dear Editor:
	On Thursday, June 3d, we started on a tour
through Southern Utah. As steam carried us
swiftly along, the soul felt to exclaim, in the
language of the great Morse, "What hath God
wrought." The long and weary miles that were
once traveled so tediously, are now skimmed
over as lightly and pleasantly as the little bird
flits through the air.
	To a lover of the beautiful, how grandly sub-
lime are these dear old mountains. As the eye
feasted upon the beauteous panorama of hill and
dale and snow-capped peak, and e'en the wide
expanse of blue above, that methinks Italian
skies could not excel—I thanked God for living
in a land so lavishly dowered with nature's
charms. Passing around the mountain's point,
where in early days we feared and trembled
with the pitching to and fro of the old wagon, we
beheld the placid waters of Utah Lake, still ever
the same and unchanged, on whose shores our
childish feet had made imprints in the shining,
shifting sands, and our nimble fingers gathered
the romantic shells. Passing still on and glanc-
ing to the left, what memories flooded the heart at
sight of the hills that rose before us like old fa-
miliar friends, not a hill we have not climbed,
not a crag nor a cliff we had not scaled, nor
a dale we left unscanned for the dainty violet,
the wild honey suckle, and the sweetest and
fairest of flowers—the Lily of the Valley. To-
day other feet tread the same paths, other hands
cull the lovely flowers, while we, thronged
with life’s cares and burdens, scarce have
time for pleasant retrospection.
	How soon do we pass from the free and joyous
days of youth—those days fraught with happi-
ness and bright anticipation to the cold, stern and
sometimes withering realities of life. But even
though experience teaches us that life is a pro-
bation, wherein we must learn to endure, over-
come, and suffer and make ourselves perfect
through suffering, we still cling to it tenaciously.
	At 10 a. m. we reached Provo, stepping from
from the cars we soon found a conveyance which
took us to the door of our esteemed friend, "Ma
Smoot," who although a comparative stranger,
greeted us kindly. Where on earth do we find
that sympathy and cordiality on meeting each
other for the first time that we do among Saints.
We feel a kindred tie that binds the heart at
once. She was just off for fast meeting, so we
accompanied her. And felt well, as we ever do,
in listening to inspired teaching.
	In the afternoon the Relief Societies of the
four wards met in their respective School-houses.
I attended that of the 1st Ward, while “Ma
Smoot” and Father Graves (the friend of wo-
man) drove around to the different wards to no-
tify them of our lecture in the evening. The
word was well circulated, consequently a good
audience. At the close of this public lecture to
both ladies and gentlemen, I announced my in-
tention of forming a class for a series of private
lectures for the ladies. The idea met with ap-
proval, and quite a number accordingly met
me on Friday afternoon at the B. Y. Academy,
several of the students of this institution joining
the class.	
	Saturday afternoon attended an entertainment
given by the Primary Association of the 1st
Ward. The exercises were very credit-
able, both to the children and their
President. At the close a rich repast


was served to all, the little folks here having the
preference. The Bishop remarked these things
are to encourage the children, let them be wait-
ed on first. We liked the idea; children should
not be made to feel they are of no importance, it
lessens their dignity and self-respect.
	At 5 p.m., gave the last lecture of the series,
which met with general satisfaction and appre-
ciation.
	A prominent physician lately remarked, "The
women of Utah are the most ignorant upon their
own physical organization of any class I have
ever met." In the past, it is true, we have not
enjoyed those facilities for this higher and very
desirable education possessed by the older east-
ern cities, endowed as they are with their hos-
pitals, collages and houses of learning, yet we
feel and know we have here talent and ability,
and all that is needed is the opportunity where-
by it may be developed. As we grow wiser
both in theory and experience we come to realize
there is nothing that will better secure useful-
ness, and as a result of that usefulness- happi-
ness- than health; and in order that we should
possess health, we must understand and prac-
tice the great physical laws that govern these
mortal beings. Feeling the great need of this
knowledge among women, I have, for some time
past been engaged in the pleasing task of teach-
ing and inculcating these truths by a series of
lectures. I feel ambitious for the women of
Utah. I would wish them to be the best, purest
and noblest, the wisest and most thoroughly
educated of any women on earth, and for their
emancipation from ignorance and tradition I am
willing to work earnestly and energetically.
	Ever feeling interested in woman's cause,
which you, with voice and pen, so nobly advo-
cate, I will say adieu for the present.
					E. R. SHIPP, M. D.


16		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


PRONUNCIATION OF ENGLISH NAMES

	A recent work published by F. Warne & Co.,
London, entitled, "The Manners and Tone of 
Good Society," has a chapter on the pronuncia-
tion of the proper names and titles of the Eng-
lish aristocracy, which will be of peculiar service
to those who are much given to the reading of
of English history or English novels. The fol-
lowing condensation of the examples furnished
by the author are given herewith—Such are
Cholmondeley, pronounced Chumley; Majori-
banks, pronounced Marshbanks; Cockburn, pro-
nounced Coburn; and Cowper, pronounced Coo-
per, Again, Mainwaring is Mannering; McLeod
is McCloud. In Elgin and Gillott the "g" is
hard; in Gifford and Nigel it is soft; in John-
stone the "t" should not be sounded. In Moly-
neux the "x" is sounded, and the name is pro-
nounced Molynoox, with a very slight accent on
the last syllable. In Vaux the "x" is also sound-
ed, but it is mute in Des Vaux and likewise in
Devereux. In Ker, Berkeley, and Derby, the
"e" has the sound of "a" in far. In Waldegrave,
the second syllable, "de," should be dropped.
and so should th&nbsp;"th" in Blyth. Dillwyn is
Dillun, and Lyveden—Livden. In Conyngham,
Monson, Monkton and Ponsonby, the "o" takes
the sound of "u," and Blount should be
pronounced as Blunt, the "o" being
mute. Buchan should be pronounced Buckan,
and Beauclerk or Beauclerc is Boclare, the ac-
cent being on the first syllable, Wemyses
should be pronounced Weims, and D'Eresby—
D'Ersby. In Montgomerie the "t" is elided and
the two "p's" have the the sound of "u" the ac-
cent being on the second syllable. In Hertford
the "t" is elided and the "e" has the sound of
"a" in far. Strachan should be pronounced
Strawn; Colquehoun is Koohoon, the accent be-
ing on the last syllable; Beauchamp is Beacham,
and Coutts is Koots. Another formidable name
to the uninitiated is Duchesne, which should 
be pronounced Dukarn; Bethune should be
Beeton; and in Abergavenny the "av" is not
sounded. Menzies is pronounced Mynges; Knol-
lys as Knowls; Sandys as Sands; Gower as Gorr,
Milnes as Mills. Finally, Dalziel should be pro-
nounced Deeall, with the accent on the first
syllable; Chartres is Charters; Glamis is Glarms;
Geoghegan should be pronounced Gaygan, and
Ruthven is Riven. We may add that the ac-
cent is frequently misplaced in pronouncing
British proper names, and a few of the words
liable to mistake may be here noted. In Tadema
and Millais, the accent is on the first syllable:
in Clanricarde and Breadalbane, on the second;
while in Burnett, Bardett, Kennaird, Parnell
and Tremayne, the last syllable is accented.—
Transcript.


FAULT FINDING

		     BY JULIA SPENCER

	This is one of the greatest of evils. One begins
before they are aware saying something about
their neighbors, or some unfortunate person,
that has strayed from the path of duty, or who
has taken some wrong step that excites the pub-
lic mind. We are all apt to take such a subject
for our topic to talk about at some bee, or social
gathering, and thus give vent to what we think,
meaning no harm, and little thinking how much
harm will be the result. One commences and 
tells what she knows or has heard; it soon
spreads through the crowd. Each has some
story, or a fault to add,so they get the faults and
wrongs picked out of a person's character, and
portray them in such glaring colors, that if a
stranger to the said person happened to be pres-
ent, he would readily come to the conclusion
that that person had never done a good deed in
all his life; for truly, I have never heard of .a
person, he or she, who was past forgiveness.
When faults, mistakes, wrongs, and evil deeds
are all put in one heap, some truth and some
fiction, and then spread before our eyes in the
blackest dyes, no good can we discern.
	Now, my dear sisters, stop! How wonld we
like our faults arrayed in such a manner? for
none can deny having them, for none of us are
perfect. Supposing we take the good deeds of
the person for our topic and portray them in just
as bright colors as we have the faults, and when
we have finished, O, what a contrast! The
good outshines the evil, so that it lessens the
magnitude of faults until it looks like a speck in
the ocean, The view of this person’s character
is greatly changed. If we would take this course,
we would see more beauty in human nature
and make a better record for ourselve; and we
would be a more happy and peaceable commu-
nity.


[Column 1]
WARNER'S
SAFE
BITTERS
	It is the best Blood Purifier, and stimulates
every function to more healthful action, and is
thus a benefit in all diseases.
	In eliminating the impurities of the blood, the
natural and necessary result is the cure of Scrof-
ulous and other Skin Eruptions and Diseases,
including Cancers, Ulcers and other Sores.
	Dyspepsia, Weakness of the Stomach, Consti-
pation, Dizziness, General Debility, etc., are
cured by the Safe Bitters. It is unequaled
as an appetizer and regular tonic.
	It is a medicine which should be in every fam-
ily, and which, wherever used, will save the
payment of many doctors' bills.
	Bottles of two sizes; prices, 50 cents and $1.00.
SAFE
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE
SAFE
DIABETES CURE
SAFT TONIC
NERVINE
PILLS
READ! Save Thyself
☞ Warner's Safe Reme-
dies are sold
by Druggists
and Dealers
in Medicine
everywhere.
H. H. WARNER & CO.,
Proprietors,
Roghester, N. Y.
☞ Send for Pamphlet
and Testimonials.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST
[image of dentures to left]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST., OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX' 541.

A LARGE STOCK
OF HOME MADE TRUNKS for sale by JOHN C. CUT-
LER, Agent of the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building, also Home-Made
Blankets,	Brown Yarn,		Cotton Batting,
Fraunels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarn,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimeres,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, &c.
[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE—Up stiars, in Old Constitution Building.
	Residence six blocks east of Post Office, south side of
street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, diseases of Women, and
DISEASES of the EYE AND EAR

NEW SPRING STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies
Ties, Cu[---] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions
boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
goods. Etc., Etc

Palace of Fashion, No. 17 East Temple Street.

MRS. C. E. DYE
	Desires the ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting Con-
ference to call at her show rooms and see her new stock
of MILLINERY The latest and most stylish modes of
Hats and Bonnets in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also a nice
selection in Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Rib-
bons in the latest shades and stripes Country dealers,
please call Ladies' Hair work in all its branches. Good
work guaranteed.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
Special departments for Gent's Clothing
and Carpets, Ladies and Children's Shoes,
Dry Goods, Shawls and Domestics,
Groceries, Hardware and Stoves.

DRIED FRUITS of all CLASES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE NEW
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE.
If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction The New
Machine is elegant in appearance and admirable in opera-
tion, runs very easily and without any noise and confu-
sion, although the rate of speed is very high [--]s self-
setting and self threading hu[--]le, and absence of springs
and [---] [---] both simple and durable. Be sure to
see it, for its general advantages will make you its friend.
Victor Sewing Machine Co., Chicago, Ill.
O. [-]. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

H. DINWOODEY-
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS. WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South St. S. L. C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

