VOL. 9.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1880.	No. 11.


DUTY.

Oft we ask ourselves the question--
	What is best for us to do?
What soul-work, or hand-vocation,
	Best for woman to pursue?
Shall we be the dolls of fashion--
	Loved and flattered for a while,
Wither 'neath man's sterner passion,
	Live again on fonder smile?
Shall we live for vain ambition?
	Live for friends of wealth and power?
Feast on words of adulation--
	On the friendship of an hour?
Shall we live for public duties?
	To reform the low and vile?
Cultivate angelic beauties,
	In the minds now filled with guile?
Shall we live for Home's fair altar,
	Ne'er to pass beyond its shrine?
Never in this purpose falter?
	Let all hopes around it twine?

To these queries what's the answer?
	Duty! duty seems to call;
Let our thoughts and feelings center
	On stern duty first of all.
Know it, love it, act it bravely,
	Wheresoe'er the path may lead:
For 'twill give most perfect pleasure,
	And at last the richest meed.

E. R. SHIPP.


[Column 1]

PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

(Continued.)

	During the seven years Sister Eliza resided
in Nauvoo, she wrote many of the articles
contained in her two volumes of poems. Her
mind was fertile, and fresh subjects and inci-
dents were constantly developing her talent
for writing, and inspiring her muse to pour
forth rich melodies in song and verse. Mean-
time, persecution raged, until at last the exo-
dus of the Saints from Nauvoo was decided
upon, and the cry went forth "to your tents,
O Israel." She was among the first to leave
the beautiful city, the graves of her lamented
dead, and the scenes and places round which
so many tender recollections clustered. Early
in the month of February, 1846, she crossed
the Mississippi River, in company of Col.
Stephen Markham and family, and camped
with thousands of others who had left their
homes, and were living in tents and wagons,
preparatory to starting upon their journey to
the Rocky Mountains. Sister Eliza's pen was
ever busy; the following is an extract from
a poem written after leaving the city of Nau-
voo, "West side Mississippi, February 19, 1846:"

	"Although in woods and tents we dwell,
	Shout! Shout! O Camp of Israel!
	No Christian mobs on earth can bind
	Our thoughts, or steal our peace of mind.

			CHORUS:
	Though we fly from vile oppression,
	'We'll maintin our pure profession, 
	Seek a peaceable possession, 
	Far from Gentiles and oppression. 

	We've left the city of Nauvoo, 
	And our beloved Temple, too,
	And to the wilderness we go,
	Amid the winter frosts and snow. 

[Column 2]

	The Camp, the Camp—its numbers swell—
	Shout! Shout! O Camp of Israel!
	The King, the Lord of Hosts, is near, 
	His armies guard our front and rear."

	While the Saints were encamped at Sugar
Creek, across the river, in Iowa, waiting the
arrival of others and making arrangements for
traveling, the weather was cold, windy and
stormy, and it required undaunted heroism and
an unflinching purpose to endure, all the hard-
ships and privations incidental to the time.
Sleeping in tents upon the cold, frozen ground,
in snow storm, or rain, was not the most agree-
able thing in the world, but Eliza was deter-
mined to share the fortunes of the Saints, to
live or die with them. Her mission was with
her people, and although she perhaps did not
realize the importance of the position she was
destined to occupy, yet there is no doubt she
had an intuition of the future, and of the great
work which lay before her, and this made her
resolution to persevere under difficulties
stronger, and buoyed her up when called to
pass through severe trials and affliction.
	Her pen was active, and the effusions writ-
ten in wagons and by the wayside are full of
originality, and graphically expressive of the
every day lives and journeyings of the Saints.
We give a few lines here, from one of her
poems, which are specially suggestive:

	"Lo! a mighty host of Jacob,
	Tented on the Western shore
	Of the noble Mississippi, 
	Which they had been crossing o'er.

	"Soon the carriage wheels are moving
	Onward to a woodland dell,
	Where at sunset all are quartered—
	Camp of Israel! all is well."

	Sister Eliza traveled with Col. Markham's
family. Col. M. was a tried and sterling friend
of the Prophet Joseph. It is impossible, in
this brief sketch, to recount all the adventures
of this wonderful journey, commenced in mid-
winter, but we must leave the reader to imag-
ine something of the cold, the inconvenience
of traveling over a new country at such an un-
seasonable time, bad roads, or no roads at all,
mud, rain, snow, sleet, rivers to cross, and all
the hardships of a pioneer journey with insuffi-
cient teams and incomplete outfits. She says
she "frosted her feet often enough to occasion
her much inconvenience afterwards." "At
one time," she writes in her diary, "I was
seated on a chest in a lumber wagon, with a
brass kettle for a footstool."
	The Saints made settlements by the way,
where some families were left to put in grain 
and make a resting and recruiting place for
those who were to come afterwards! At the 
middle fork of Green River, on the first day
of June, Bro. M., with others, stopped at one
of these points. Here Sister M. and Sister
Eliza lived in a house made of logs piled up
loose like children's cob houses, with cracks
between the logs from three to four inches wide,
a tent cloth stretched over the top, while blan-
kets and carpets were hung up on the inside as 
a protection from inclement weather. 
	On the 19th of August, when Bro. M., who
had been absent about three weeks, returned
they bade goodby to Mt. Pisgah, but when
they were ready to start they were minus a
teamster. Sister M. undertook to drive one
yoke of cattle, but she soon fell sick and Sister

[Column 3]

Eliza was left to drive. She says had it been
a horse team she would have felt capable, but
driving oxen was new business. However, she
soon learned to "haw" and "gee," and became
such an adept that she could sit in the wagon
and drive, and acquit herself creditably. But
this was not all. The family, one after another
were sick, and she had to assist in cooking and
nursing, as well as driving the team; in which
she realized the truth of the Scripture, "As
thy day so thy strength shall be."
	On the 27th they crossed the Missouri River
at Council Bluffs, and the next day arrived at
the general camp at Winter Quarters. From
constant exposure and continued hardship Sis-
ter Eliza broke down; a slow fever set in, chills
and fever followed, and she lay in the wagon
very ill. Heavy autumnal rains came on, and 
she was often "wet nearly from head to foot."
She felt that she stood just at the gates of
death, that it was but a step beyond, and that
once inside the portals she would be free from
pain and suffering; but her great life-work lay
before her, and she summoned courage and.
supreme faith to her aid. The wagon she had
been occupying with Sister M. for a bedroom
was needed to go out for "supplies," and they
moved into a log house only partly finished.
It had no chinking, the wind was cold and
blustering,and no chimney, the fire was built on
one side, and the room, which had no floor,
was always filled with smoke. This was unen-
durable, and the fire had to be dispensed with,
and the cooking done out of doors; the intense
cold being preferable to the smoke. Towards
the latter part of November the house in which
she lived was made more comfortable. There
was much sickness and destitution among the
Saints, and many died in consequence of the
privation and suffering. About the close of
the year, when Sister Eliza was sick and had,
seemingly, endured to her utmost capacity; she
received the sad news of her mother's death;
and though she grieved that she could not be
permitted to behold her again in the flesh, yet
she knew she had suffered much in consequence
of the persecutions of the Saints, and had
now laid down in peace to sleep until the morn-
ing of the resurrection.
	On the 7th of April, 1847, the pioneers, un-
der the direction of President Brigham Young,
left Winter Quarters to search out a gathering
place for the Pilgrim Saints. This was a theme
worthy the pen of the poetess, and she dedi-
cated to Pres. Young and the pioneers "A
Journeying Song," from which we give a verse
or two as illustrative of the poem, which was
both inspiring and comforting to them at that
time when all was stern, cold reality.

	"The time of winter now is o'er—
		There's verdure on the plain;
	We leave our shelt'ring roofs once more, 
		And to our tents again. 

		CHORUS:
	Thou Camp of Israel, onward move:
		O Jacob, rise and sing;
	Ye Saints, the world's salvation prove—
		All hail to Zion's King.

	We go to choice and goodly lands,
		With rich and fertile soil,
	That by the labor of our hands
		Will yield us wine and oil.

	We'll find a climate pure and free,
		Producing life and health,
	Where steady care and industry
		Will prove a source of wealth.


*		*		*		*		*		*

We seek a land where truth will reign,
	And innocence be free;
Where lawful rights will be maintained—
	A land of liberty.

CHORUS."

	Early in June companies of families were
formed, who started Westward, following, when
they could, the track of the pioneers. In one
of these companies, in charge of Capt. Jede-
diah M. Grant, Sister Eliza continued her pil-
grimage, with the family of Bro. Robert Pierce.
It was a long and tedious journey, and none
but those acquainted with the facts can ever
fully appreciate what such a journey really is,
and especially how it would affect a sensitive,
delicate woman, but just recovering from a se-
vere illness. The lady writes: "Much of the
time we were on an untrodden way; but when
we came to the track of the pioneers, as we oc-
casionally did, and read the date of their pres-
ence, with an 'all well' accompaniment, on a
bleached buffalo skull, we had a general time
of rejoicing." She refers in glowing terms and
poetic verse to the moonlight and starlight eve-
nings, when the brethren and sisters circled
around the blazing camp fires and sung hymns
of praise, their voices reverberating "from hill
to hill, and echoing through the silent expanse,
seemed to fill the vast concave above while the
glory of God seemed to rest on all around."
	On the bank of the Platte River, August
25, 1847, Sister Eliza wrote her characteristic
"Song of the Desert," which may be found on
page 181, Vol. 1, of her poems.

*		*		*		*		*		*

"Beside the broad, smooth river,
	Beside the flowing spring,"
Beside the limpid streamlet,
	We often sit and sing.

Beneath the sparkling concave,
	When stars in millions come
To cheer the pilgrim strangers
	And bid us feel at home;
Beneath the lovely moonlight,
	When Cynthia spreads her rays;
In social groups assembled,
	We join in songs of praise."

	But there were other scenes enacted, and
many dark days as well as bright ones. "Nurs-
ing the sick in tents and wagons, and burying
the dead by the wayside, consigning the loved
ones to lonely graves in the midst of a wild
desert, was indeed mournful, yes, pitiful." But
we can only just glance at those sad occurren-
ces, those heart-rending scenes, and pass on
with our simple but truthful narrative.

To be Continued.


82	﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LIFE INCIDENTS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	"On the 21st Colonel Sconce and two other
leading men from Ray County came to see us,
desiring to know what our intentions were, for
said he, "I see that there is an Almighty power
that protects this people, for I started from
Richmond, Ray County, with a company of
armed men, having a fixed determination to
destroy you, but was kept back by the storm
and was not able to reach you." When he
came into camp he was seized with such a
trembling that he was obliged to sit down in
order to compose himself. When he desired
to know what our intentions were, Brother Jo-
seph arose and began to speak, and the power
of God rested upon him. He gave a relation
of the sufferings of our people in Jackson
County, and also many of our persecutions, and
what we had suffered from our enemies for our
religion; and that we had come one thousand
miles to assist our brethren, to bring them

[Column 2]
clothing, and to reinstate them upon their own
lands; that we had no intention to molest or
injure any people, but only to administer to the
wants of our afflicted brethren; and that the
evil reports which were circulated about us
were false, and were circulated by our ene-
mies to get us destroyed.
	"After he had got through,	*	*	the power
of which melted them into compassion, they
arose and offered him their hands, and said
they would use their influence to allay the ex-
citement which everywhere prevailed against
us. They accordingly went forth and rode
days and night to pacify the people. They
wept, because they saw we were a poor, afflicted
people, and our intentions were pure. The
next day the Sheriff of that county, named
Neil Gilliam, came to deliver a short address
to us. We formed into companies and marched
into a grove a little distance from the camp,
and there formed ourselves into a circle, and
sat down upon the ground.
	"Previous to Mr. Gilliam's address he said:
"I have heard much concerning Joseph Smith,
and I have been informed that he is in your
camp; if he is here, I would like to see him."
Brother Joseph arose and said, "I am the
man." This was the first time he was made
known during the journey of one thousand
miles. Mr. Gilliam then arose and gave us
some instructions concerning the manners and
customs of the people, their disposition, &c.,
and what course we should take in order to
gain their favor and protection.	*	*	*
	"Being in want of salt, I took it upon me to
go to some of the inhabitants and get some;
Brother Cyrus Smalling took his rifle and went
along with me. After passing through a path
enclosed by hazle brush, about two miles from
the camp, I discovered a deer standing across
the path; I made motions to Bro. Smalling,
and he, drawing up his rifle over my shoulder,
which served for a rest, fired and hit the deer;
it ran a few rods and fell. We cut a pole, and
fastening the deer on it, got it over our shoul-
ders and carried it along to the camp, when we
dressed it and divided it among the different
companies, and had an excellent feast.
	"Here Brothers Ezra Thayer and Thomas
Hayes were taken sick with the cholera. We
left them there, and also Bro. Joseph Hancock,
who had been taken with the cholera during
the storm, and who was the first person attacked
with it. Brother Joseph called the camp to-
gether, and told us that in consequence of the
disobedience of some who had not been willing
to listen to his words, but had been rebellious,
God had decreed that sickness should come
upon us.	*	*	I am sorry, but I cannot
help it! When he spoke these things it pierced
me like a dart, having a testimony that so it
would be.
	"On the morning of the 24th we started for
Liberty, Clay County, where our brethren were
residing who had been driven from Jackson
County.	*	*	*	When we were within five
or six miles of Liberty, General Atchison and
several other gentlemen met us, desiring that
we would not go to Liberty, as the feelings of
the people in that place were much enraged
against us. Changing our course and bearing
to the left, we pursued our way across a prairie;
then passing through a wood we came to Bro.
Sidney Gilbert's, where we camped on the bot-
tom of Rush Creek, in a field belonging to
Brother Burgess.
	"The destroyer came upon us, as we had
been warned by the servant of God. About
12 o'clock at night we began to hear the cries
of those who were seized. Even those on
guard fell, with their guns in their hands, to
the ground, and we had to exert ourselves con-
siderably to attend to the sick, for they were
stricken down on every hand. Thus it con-
tinued till morning, when the camp was sepa-

[Column 3]
rated into several small bands, and were dis-
persed among the brethren.
	"I was left at the camp in company with Jo-
seph B. Noble, John D. Parker, Luke Johnson
and Warren Ingalls, in care of those who were
sick. We stayed with and prayed for them,
hoping they would recover; but all hope was
lost, for about six o'clock in the evening John
S. Carter expired. When the cholera first
broke out he was the first who went forward to
rebuke it, when he was immediately seized by
it, and was the first who died. In about thirty
minutes after, Seth Hitchcock died; and it ap-
peared as though we must all sink under the
power of the destroyer. We were not able to
obtain lumber to make them coffins, but were
under the necessity of rolling them up in their
blankets and burying them in that manner;
we placed them on a sled, which was drawn by
a horse about half a mile, and buried them in
a little bluff by the side of a small branch of
Rush Creek; this was accomplished by dark.
	"Our hopes were that no more would die;
but while we were uniting in prayer with up-
lifted hands to God, we looked at our beloved
brother, Eber Wilcox, who was gasping his
last. At this scene my feelings were beyond
expression. Those only who witnessed it can
realize anything of the extent of our sufferings;
and I felt to weep and pray to the Lord that
he would spare my life, that I might behold
my dear family again. I felt to covenant with
my God and my brethren, never to commit an-
other sin while I lived. We felt to sit and
weep over our brethren, and so great was our
sorrow that we could have washed them with
our tears. To realize that they had traveled a
thousand miles through so much fatigue to lay
down their lives for their brethren increased
our love for them.
	"Brothers Brigham and Joseph Young came
from Liberty and assisted us to bury Bro. Wil-
cox; their presence gave us much consolation.
About twelve o'clock at night we placed Bro.
Wilcox on a small sled, which we drew to the
place of interment, with one hand hold of the
rope, and in the other we bore our firelocks for
our defense. While two were digging the
grave, lhe others stood with their arms to de-
fend them.
	"While Brother Luke Johnson was digging,
the cholera attacked him with cramping and
blindness. Brother Brigham laid hold of him
and pulled him out of the grave, and shook
him about, talked to him, and prayed for him,
and exhorted him to jump about and exercise
himself, when it would leave him for a few mo-
ments; then it would attack him again, and
thus we had the greatest difficulty to keep the
destroyer from laying us low. Soon after we
returned, another brother was taken from our
little band; thus it continued, until five out of
ten were taken away.
	"It was truly affecting to see the love mani-
fested among the brethren for each other dur-
ing this affliction. Brother Joseph, seeing the
sufferings of his brethren, stepped forward to
rebuke the destroyer. but was immediately
seized with the disease, and I assisted him a
short distance from the place, when it was with
difficulty he could walk. All that kept our
enemies from us was the fear of the destroyer
which the Lord had sent among us. After
burying these five brethren I was seized by the
hand of the destroyer as I went into the woods
to pray; I was in[---]tly struck blind, and saw
no way whereby I [-]ould free myself from the
disease, only to exert myself by jumping and
threshing myself about until my sight returned
to me and my blood began to circulate in my
veins; I started and ran some distance, and by
this means, through the help of God I was en-
abled to extricate myself from the grasp of
death.

To be continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO MOTHER WOODARD ON HER
SEVENTIETH BIRTHDAY.

BY LAURA C. PACK.

Seventy years of a noble life—
A tender mother, a faithful wife!
How much those words to those who know
The hours of care and pain and woe,
The sleepless nights, when the storm beats wild,
And the mother prays for her absent child;
Or bends in pitying grief above
The suffering form of one she loves:
And works with a terrible pain in her heart,
Lest from the suff'rer she soon must part.
And oh! when her lonely vigils are o'er,
And the loved form carried from out her door,
How lonely her home, to her heart how bare,
Though loved ones still assemble there.
And when time has worn from others the smart,
It is still, still there in her aching heart;
And oft when the household are locked in sleep,
Alone will she muse o'er the past, and weep.
Yet other sorrows, more hard to bear,
It is oft the mother's lot to share;
And her bitter tears, by anguish wrung,
Are hidden from every eye but One—
He, Who has given her strength to bear
The grief that another cannot share.
All this, and more than my pen can tell,
Hast thon passed thro' nobly, bravely, well;
'Midst all the care of thy household band,
From others thou hast not withheld thy hand,
But hast ever been ready, with word and deed,
To succor and bless where they've stood in need.
And thy loving deeds and tender care
Have gone before and will meet thee there,
When thy earthly pilgrimage is o'er,
And thy spirit shall pass to that happy shore.
But may God still grant thee strength to impart
Comfort and peace to the stricken heart—
According to they kind desires,
And as the good spirit in thee inspires.


[Column 1]

FUNERAL OF AN IRISH MAIDEN.

FIFTY YEARS AGO.

	Outside of Carlow, Ireland, about three
miles, there is a delightful romantic spot called
Glogrennen. It consists of a large domain sev-
eral acres in extent, entered through the grand
old archway of a ruined castle, large enough
for the gatekeeper and his family to reside in.
The walls are several feet thick, and very
nearly covered with ivy—real climbing ivy,
perhaps hundreds of years old.
	About a mile and a half from the entrance
is the House, the residence of, in those days,
Colonel Rochefort (something of France about
that name; it would sound better, considering
the surroundings, if it began with an Irish
"O,"); but at all events, the house had three
hundred and sixty-five windows in it, and not
much beauty of architecture about it; as well
as I remember, it was a square, and, from the
number of windows, I should judge a solid
one.
	Leaving the grand avenue, we pass through
some well cultivated fields, and coming to a
wood, or ancient forest, we begin an ascent of
about a mile of rough, rocky road through
fine old trees, until we come to the grand ruin
of an ancient Abbey. Inside the walls, which
are four or five feet thick, is the burying
ground of the Rochefort family. Some fine
marble slabs adorn the old walls, bright and
polished; you could not but remark the con-
trast of the old worn, rough stone and the re-
fined white or black marble. One slab I recol-
lect had the following inscription:

	"LUCY  ROCHEFORT,
	JUST
	KNOWN  AND  LOST."

	Another was erected in memory of a little
boy, grandson of the housekeeper, who fell ou

[Column 2]

of one of the windows into the area that sur-
rounded the house, and was immediately killed:

	"JOHNNY BATES,
	ONE OF
	CHRIST'S LITTLE ONES."

	Outside the walls is a space in the wood,
used as a burying place for families living on
the estate, and a few others.
	A young lady named Rebecca Cole died in
Carlow; she was taken to this beautiful spot
for interment. I recollect when the coffin was
taken out of the hearse it was reverently borne
by four young men with bands of white linen
passed underneath the coffin; which was fol-
lowed by twelve young girls dressed in white,
walking two by two, each carrying a garland
of white flowers on a sort of handle also cov-
ered with white. When the grave was filled
in, it was covered with green sods, procured
from an adjoining meadow in long strips, cut
about a foot broad and six or seven feet long,
so as to be easily carried by two men; enough
of them had been prepared to altogether cover
the new turned earth. When all this was
done, the twelve young ladies placed upright
in the grave the sticks with the garlands on,
six on each side, then knelt down round the
grave in the most graceful manner, and sang a
funeral dirge.
	My father took me in his arms and held me
in one of the ruined windows of the old abbey,
so that I could see the interesting group;
mourners and friends stood in the distance.
	That scene will never be eradicated from my
memory. The gorgeous spring sunshine, the
delightful tint of green the new grass displayed,
contrasting with the pure white dresses of
those twelve lovely girls, and their enchanting
voices filling the air with seraphic music, and
in the back ground groups of observers scat-
tered among the fine, majestic, ancient oak and
elm trees. The picture and echo of the music
will ever live in my remembrance.
	FIDELIA.


MUSIC.

	What a charm the very name has, it thrills
the soul and fills it with gladdening thoughts.
Who can tell how many homes have been made
bright and cheerful by the sweet songs sung
therein. Music is a mediator for all our
thoughts and feelings. It has praises of God
and his works, accents of joy, murmurings of
grief, whisperings of love and in itself it is
divine. Who does not love to wander by a
flowing stream and listen to the charmed sound
of its crystal waters as they gently glide towards
the ocean carrying new notes to the lonely
siren who reigns as a nightingale among the
waters. All nature is filled with music.
	Can there be a living soul that does not love
to wander through a forest where the while
air resounds with the merry songs of birds.
Sweet songsters of the grove how joyous you are
and what a halo of happiness you cast on all
around. Oh pretty, happy creatures, living in
the tree tops, soaring to heaven, who does not
rejoice with you in your pleasant life, pray tell
us are your songs not praises to Him—who
gave you such a life? How pleasant it is, to sit
around the fire on a winter night, and guile
the hours away with pleasant songs, or to sit
under Luna's fair rays on a summer evening,
after the little birds have sung themselves to
sleep, and fill the air with joyous sounds.
How blessed is the one who has the gift of
song. Oh could she but feel the sadness of a
heart that has it not, she would forever sing
praises to her Maker for this glorious gift. I
wonder if the one so endowed ever thinks
how many moments of pleasure she gives to all
who hear her, or how great a comforter she is
to herself.


'Tis pleasant to walk along the streets and
stop now and then to hear the voice of some
sweet maiden singing to the family circle, or
'tis enchanting to listen to the midnight min-
strel sounding praises to his lady love or 'tis
grand to hear the solemn organ chanting praises
to the Lord, yet 'tis most sweet to hear a
mother lull her little ones to sleep.
	There is scarcely a home in all the land that
has not been made happy by the sound of music,
and when a home is bereft of its songster, 'tis
like a cage without a bird or almost like a
man without a soul. Every one should try to
cultivate a taste and talent for music, for those
who possess it have the power of shedding joy
and happiness on all around; and we should
all try to fulfill the commands of the Creator
by praising Him with the lute and the harp in
the song and in the dance.
[handwritten] Annie [-] Camelia.
								CAMELIA.


RUSKIN'S HOME PICTURES.

	A correspondent of the New York World,
who lately visited this eccentric genius, says:
	"Mr. Ruskin lives now among the English
lakes, at Brantwood, on Lake Coniston. His
house is on a slope above the lake, and is best
approached, as I approached it a few weeks
ago, by water. A more charming house could
not be imagined. The visitor, looking down
from the front of the house on the lovely lake,
and away up the grand hills that tower above
the quiet village, sees one of nature's fairest
scenes, and within doors there are treasures of
art and industry which I should have liked
weeks instead of hours to examine.
	Some of Mr. Ruskin's pictures are well
krown from frequent allusions to them in
his writings. He often refers to Titian's
'Venetian Senator,' a most imposing picture
which hangs in the dining-room under glass
There also is a picture of Angelica Kaufmann
—Miss Angel— by Sir Joshua Reynolds; a
portrait of Turner when a young man, painted
by himself, and Napoleon I. on horseback, by
Meissionneir—a painting which is more speaking
than a shelf-ful of biography about the little
Corporal. The collection of Turner's is unique.
Some of the paintings are very early ones, and
were made when the artist was still trammelled
by conventionalities. Others, again, show when
he had learned to fly. Mr. Ruskin showed
me with a magnifying-glass the amount of min-
ute, conscientious work which they all contain.
He said that Turner never, or almost never,
painted in the open air. He observed and
made notes, but he worked in the studio. I
asked whether that was a mere habit,or whether
it proceeded from any principle. 'From the
most important principle;' said Mr. Ruskin.
'In the open air the scene is constantly chang-
ing.. The clouds, the shadows, the hues shift
from moment to moment. You cannot, there-
fore, be true to nature and represent a harmon-
ious whole if you attempt to copy what is con-
tinually changing. You must grasp the scene
as a unity, and then evolve it on the canvas."
—Ex,


Good habits are the porters that throw open
wide the gates of success.

	Education should enable one to think for
himself, not cram with the thoughts and ideas
of other people.

	A man should not be judged by his failure
in life, for there are a class of men who are too
scrupulously honest to succeed.

	To obtain by one's own industry, fully as
much as one spends, gives men or women a
feeling of true independence that those cannot
have who subsist upon the bounty or hand-
earnings of others.


84	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, NOVEMBER 1, 1880.


[Column 1]
THE COMING ELECTION.

SCHOOL SUFFRAGE IN NEW YORK.

	To-morrow the election will be held in all the
precincts of the Territory,and the People's Party
will cast their votes for the Delegate to Congress
from Utah. Notwithstanding the attempt
which was made to take the franchise from the
women of this Territory, woman will have the
privilege of the ballot, and thus help to swell
the numbers of the People's Party, who would
no doubt, without the votes of women, be largely
in the majority. The suffrage for women is be-
ing more extensively discussed as time rolls on,
and already much has been done in this direc-
tion, that thirty years ago seemed impossible.
There is a bond of sympathy which unites wo-
men on this subject that is strong as iron and
will not give way, though opinions on other sub-
jects materially differ. Many of the leading
women suffragists have expressed themselves on
the recent attempt to disfranchise the women of
Utah, in such a way as to give strength to the
preconceived opinion that they would, were it
necessary, wrestle to help maintain the posi-
tion which the women of Utah have had secured
to them for the last ten years, and which rights
have been preserved sacred and inviolate.
	Mrs. Lewis, editor of Woman's Words, Phila-
delphia, says, under the heading "Disfranchis-
ing Women:"
	"Another effort is being made in Utah to dis-
franchise the women of that Territory, as we
learn by a dispatch from Mrs. Wells; a man-
damus having been issued by the Supreme Court
bearing on the question. We do not believe it
will succeed. Liberty takes no step backward,
and when the elective franchise is once exer-
cised, no power can take it away without a revo-
lution. It is one of the alarms, we judge, de-
signed to help the Democratic Party. If so,
they will soon find plenty of business on hand
in soothing the terrorized voters of the South."
Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage, editor of the Na-
tional Citizen, Syracuse, New York, has an edi-
torial on the same subject; it is entitled "Attack
upon Vested Rights," "Woman's Cowardly
Enemies," &c. Mrs. Gage is a powerful writer,
and she takes this opportunity to impress upon
women everywhere the necessity of securing a
constitutional amendment. She closes with the
following paragraph:
	"Let this attempt to deprive the women of
Utah of their political rights, nerve the heart
and brain of every woman to more strenuous
effort for a sixteenth amendment which shall
recognize the rights of all United States citizens
to the ballot. When once this is gained, no iso-
lated state or territory can strike such a blow at
suffrage rights."
	Mesdames Gage, Blake and Slocum have been

[Column 2]
actively engaged for some time past in lecturing
to help educate women politically and preparing
the field for the women of New York that they
might exercise the privilege of the ballot given
them Feb. 12, ult., on the school question, at the
election, which was held about the middle of
October. Mrs. Blake in a letter to the National
Citizen said she had canvassed ten counties;
that at several points women were nominated
to serve as trustees and the sequel of the election
proves that Mrs. Blake was right in predicting
they would be elected. Ladies took their own
carriages out for voters, others stood at the door
and distributed votes, and received at the polling
places. Mrs. Gage sat in a Justice's office with
the inspectors to watch the deposits. She was
strongly urged to run as Trustee but refused
for lack of time, however a young energetic
woman got the position proffered to her. Mrs.
G. says when the time drew near for the voting
of women in the eleven thousand school districts
of the State, the men began to grow uneasy;
but the verdiet is that "so quiet a school election
was never known." They had some opposition
from State Superintendent of schools, Neil Gil-
more, who published a circular and letter; with
a view of intimidating women. If Mr. Gilmore
does not "mend his manners," in this regard,
these selfsame ladies will give him just such a
game as they did Lucius Robinson.
	The women of Utah, appreciating as they do
the privilege of the franchise, will rejoice in the
eminent success of this vexed question in the
Empire State, and also in all the extended rec-
ognition of woman as an intelligent, responsible
being, a creature of mind and soul.
	The women of this Territory should not forget
election day, and not only go forward and vote,
appreciating the opportunity, but stimulate oth-
ers to do so, and assist all in their power to help
the aged and infirm, that they may have an op-
portunity of casting their votes, that the Peo-
ple's Party may be faithfully represented by
both sexes. Show by good works that the ballot
is not lightly held, or ignorantly handled. Study
to become better informed upon all the subjects
of law and government, that the influence of
woman may at all times and in all places be that
which will tell for good; that men may seek
women for counsel, and mutual benefit and so-
cial and political elevation be the ultimate result
of woman's political emancipation.


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	SISTERS E. R. Snow Smith and Zina D. Young
went to Lehi and attended the annual meeting
of the Relief Society on Wednesday, October 27.
These two sisters will probably start for St.
George in a few days, visiting the different set-
tlements by the way, and meeting with the So-
cieties wherever practicable.

	SISTERS E. R. Snow and B. W. Smith left the
city Sept. 23, to attend the Ladies Conference at
Richfield,and visit other towns in Sevier County.
They were absent ten days and held twenty
meetings, all well attended. The brethren and
sisters received them joyfully and no doubt ap-
preciated their wise and excellent counsel and
instruction.
	WE return our sincere thanks to the little
girls at Chester, for the beautiful wreath of hair
we received from them. The wreath contains a
lock of hair from the head of each of the officers
and members of the Primary Association, nicely
arranged, and the colors artistically blended. It
will be a handsome ornament for the office, and
very precious to us as the gift and workmanship
of those little girls, who are learning to beautify
with the work of their own hands.

[Column 2]
	The Y. L. M. I. A., of the 11th Ward held its
annual meeting Oct. 10th, that being the ninth
anniversary of its organization. The assembly
was large, including Bishop A. McRae,
Counselor J. H. Felt, Sisters M. I. Horne, E. S.
Taylor, S. M. Haywood, S. M. Kimball, H. T.
King, E. Howard and C. C. Cannon. Pres. M.
Freeze announced a short programme and the ex-
ercises began with reading the minutes of the
last annual meeting. Dr. Ellis R. Shipp made
a short and very appropriate speach and read an
original poem, Miss Amy Penrose recited
"The Little Hero" in a most pleasing manner.
An interesting essay by Coun. Lillie Freeze was
read, each of the lady visitors made remarks of
a very instructive and encouraging nature, cal-
culated to inspire all with greater diligence in
the spiritual progress of woman. At the close
of the meeting the assembly repaired to the
adjoining room and partook of refreshments
nicely arranged by a committee of young ladies.
Thus closed another of our delightful reunions.
										L.

	In company with Mrs. Zina D. Young we
visited Morgan and attended the Quarterly Con-
ference of the Relief Societies, Y. L. M. I. A.
and Primary Associations of that Stake. Some
changes were made in the officers, and a central
organization formed for the Primary Associa-
tions of that Stake. The sisters there are doing
well and trying to improve in every good thing.
Pres. W. G. Smith, Bishops and many other
brethren attended the meetings. Seven meet-
ings were held in the three days we were ab-
sent. The sisters of the County have a granary
nearly completed, built of concrete, with shin-
gled roof; it is 18 x 22 feet in the clear. They
have been very energetic to get so much done,
and other sisters may take courage by their ex-
ample of industry and economy. While we
were at the residence of Bro. Samuel Francis,
the Morgan Brass Band gave us a cheering sere-
nade. There were ten instruments, and the boys,
who are all young, under the able instruction
and leadership of Brother Bull, are progressing
finely. Their leader was associated with Ballo's
Band in the early days of Utah. It was quite
a surprise, but most truly acceptable. When we
were leaving, the children came in crowds to
bid us goodby, and sang some sweet little hymns
at the depot.
	THE Tenth Quarterly Conference of Davis
Stake Relief Society was held at Farmington
Oct. 15 1880. Sister Prescendia Kimball and Zina
D. H. Young, of Salt Lake attended. Prest-
Wm. R. Smith and Counselor Anson Call of
Davis Stake Presidency, and others of the local
brethren were present. Much good and wise
counsel was given in a pleasing and instructive
manner; many subjects of interest were dwelt
upon. Kindness,and gentleness,characterizing all
that was said and done.
	Immediately after the close of this Conference,
the Primary Associations held a Conference.
The remarks of Sisters Kimball, Young, Rogers,
et. al. were alike instructive and enteresting.
	The children merit the approbation they re-
ceived from their teachers.
	President Rogers is justly proud of the affec-
tion they manifest for those who have labored so
faithfully in their interest. The officers were
set apart by President Smith Counselor Call and
Bishop Hess, as follows: Mrs. Aurelia S. Rogers,
President; Mrs. Julia Hess and Lucy A. Clark,
Counselors; Miss Sarah E. Richards, Secretary;
Mrs. Annie Wilcox, Treasurer. Officers of the
Davis Stake Primary Association.
	M. E. RICHARDS, Secretary Relief Society,
Davis Stake.
	ON Monday, October 18, there was a select
gathering of invited guests, all ladies; at the


residence of Mrs. Marian R. Pratt, The after-
noon was spent in cheerful, social converse, and
about six o'clock Apostle Orson Pratt and seven-
teen ladies sat down to dinner. The conversa-
tion at the table was a spiritual feast. Brother
Pratt referred to his early history in the Church
and to many wonderful events of that period,
with which several of the elderly ladies were
conversant. After dinner the conversation con-
tinued in much the same strain. Later in the
evening Sister E. A. Whitney sang a song of
Zion, and Sister Zina D. Young gave the inter-
pretation. It was a psalm of praise and rejoic-
ing. Miss Rintha Pratt sang one or two charm-
ing little melodies, and Willard Weihe and sev-
eral other musicians played a few choice pieces
in a lively manner. There were six instruments,
and the effect of the music was inspiring. The
musicians went out upon the lawn, and the
effect was more delightful still. Some of the
young people were dancing on the lawn by
moonlight. It was indeed quite a temptation to
one fond of this beautiful recreation. This visit
will be long remembered. The charming and
soul-inspiring words of the Apostle, Mother
Whitney's song, the music and the sweet inter-
course of old-time friends were indeed soul-satis-
fying.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 85


OBITUARY.

	DIED: Prove Sept. 30, 1880. Julia A. Fosset,
wife of Thomas T. Holdaway, of childbirth.
aged 23 years and three months. Deceased was
born and brought up in Provo. Was a faithful
Latter-day Saint and an active member of the
Relief Society. She left a husband and three
small children, a father, mother and a large
circle of relatives to mourn her loss. She was
taken sick about midnight and died at four
o'clock in the morning. Her loss is mourned
sincerely by all who knew her.

She has gone, but our hearts in forgetting
	Can never forget she was dear,
Like a gem that is lost from its setting
	Her name and her place are still here.
								M. J. T.


IN MEMORIAM.

	Subscribed by the Relief Society of Beaver
City, to the memory of Mrs. Louisa B. Pratt.
	Our departed sister and fellow-member, who
died at Beaver Sept. 8th, 1880. aged 77 years, 9
months and 29 days; she was respected by all
who knew her, was devoted to her religion and
her God, and ever manifested a willingness to
aid the progress of His work.
	Resolved: That we extend to the bereaved
family our heartfelt sympathy, hoping they will
follow an example so worthy, and that while
mourning her loss, they may realize that,th[-]ugh
suddenly called from this earth, she has gone to
continue the labors that old age partially pre-
vented while here.
	Resolved, that while her departure saddens
our hearts it arouses our desires to continue more
faithful, that our last days, like hers. may be
blessed by the hope of a glorious resurrection.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
tendered to her children, also sent to the WOM-
AN'S EXPONENT, for publication, and placed on
the record book of the Secratary.
		MARY E. ASHWORTH, Sec'y. R. S.
	Beaver.

	Damsel Lee, daughter of Wm. ,Lee and Jane
Lyon, born at Grantsville, April 28th 1875, died
September 29, 1880.
	It has pleased our Heavenly Father, in his in-
scrutable purposes to call from our midst, our
respected and beloved sister. We the members


of the Grantsville Mutual Improvement Associa-
tion desire to express our love and esteem to her
memory; therefore:
	Be it Resolved: That we mourn her loss but
not as those without hope, that we deeply sym-
pathize with her parents and relations. She was
an active member of our Association and in every
way gave promise of a useful life.
	That the above be placed upon record a copy
of the same be given to her parents, and pub-
lished in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
		MARENTHA A. STODDARD, President.
		LUCY A. CLARK,
		MAY L. RICH,		Counselors.


[Column 1]
IN  THE SENATE OF OREGON.

	Mrs. Duniway expressed her deep appreciation
of the high honor the Senate, by its invitation,
had conferred upon her as a representative of the
great class of otherwise unrepresented though
taxpaying citizens of this commonwealth,
"who," she said, "have commissioned me, as
their humble servant, to appear before you on
their behalf, and urge you to grant to the voters
of Oregon the privilege and power to decide
whether or not your wives, your mothers, your
sisteis and daughters shall be accorded the right
to a voice in making the laws of a government
which they are taxed to sustain, and to the
statutes of which they are held amenable. We
are not unmindful that I am here to-night by
your court[---] rather than by acknowledged
right; and I confess that I find it a rather dif-
ficult task to stand before you and by your con-
sent make a complaint which you have the
the power—but for your magnanimity—to de-
prive me of opportunity to make at all. But, if
you could read the letters I get from almost
every quarter, and almost every post, written by
women that work at the loom, or the churn-dash,
or the wash-board, or the cooking stove, and
who, through their labor in rearing sons and
daughters, are taxed to sustain the government
and uphold the laws you are here to consider,
you would not wonder that I, also a mother of
men, have the courage to discharge my duty on
their behalf to the best of my humble but ear-
nest ability. 'Courage,' these Spartan wives
and mothers write to me; we are at home
praying for you.' And, Mr. President, I feel
the inspiration of their prayers to-night. They
bid me to come before you as their standard-
bearer and your friend, to assure you that their
interests are your interests, and they will do
you good not evil all the days of your lives;
They are willing to trust the voice of the voters,
if you will but grant them—the husbands,
fathers, brothers and sons—power to decide that
their wives and mothers shall have the same
right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness
that you claim for yourselves. I do not believe
that the Senators will feel that they can afford
to establish the dangerous precedent that would
result from the proposed decision that it would
not be possible to submit another amendment
to any part of the State Constitution while two
or more amendments are pending. It was wis-
dom on the part of the formers of the Constitu-
tion to provide that no amendment to a pending
amendment could be offered by the Legislature
before which such amendment, while pending,
must go for ratification. The man who, in
crossing a stream, used the handle of a scythe
for a bridge, but failed to see, till it was too late,
that in so doing the blade of the insrument must
sway round and cut off his head, was not one
whit more short-sighted than the Senator who
would be willing to so construe a single clause of
the Constitution as to make the Constitution
itself inoperative as a whole, or even in part.
Mr. President, I learned, while yet a little child,
when attending school in a little log cabin in
the heart of a frontier wilderness, to revere the
immortal words of Thomas Jefferson, 'All men
are created equal; endowed by their Creator
with certain inalienable rights; that among these
are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness;
that governments derive their just powers from
the consent of the governed; and that, whenever
any form of government becomes destructive of
these ends, it is the right of the people to alter
or abolish it.' I believe the inspiration of Liberty
was born with every wise woman's existence.
Certain am I that it has grown with her growth
and strengthened with her strength; and I well
remember the electric thrills that stirred me in
every sentient fiber of my nature, when, as a
child, the heroic struggles of the revolutionary

[Column 2]
fathers and mothers, who freely pledged and
freely gave their lives, their fortunes and their 
sacred honor that Columbia might be free, were
taught in our schools. The Constitution ex-
pressly provides that every citizen shall be guar-
anteed the equal protection of the laws. And
yet, Mr. President, one-half of the people are
taxed without representation and governed with-
out consent. This government is not a democ-
racy, nor a republic. It is a government of one-
half of the people by the other half, instead. It
is an aristocracy of sex, wherein one-half of the
citizens enjoy a monopoly of the rights and im-
munities which are denied to the other half. It
is not necessary for me to insult the intelligence
of an august Senate like this to make the ex-
planation that the generic term men, as applied
to the inalienable rights of the human family,
includes women. Men are always willing to
admit this fact when women's taxes are due, or
when a woman breaks a law that all persons of
her sex are denied a voice in making. The man
has never yet lived who has said of a woman
convicted of crime, 'May it please the Court and
the jury, I represent this woman. Punish me!'
Women complain that they are rated in law
with idiots, insane persons, criminals and China-
men. Time was when they had the negro for
company; but modern legislation has reached
out its hand and lifted the colored citizen upon
the high pedestal of equality before the law;
and to-day he is a United States Marshal, a Sen-
ator or a Representive in Congress; a law-maker,
before whose mandate your wives and mothers
must bow while they proclaim the lesson taught
by your government—that taxation without rep-
resentation is tyranny. We ask you, Mr. Presi-
dent, and gentlemen of the Senate, to take the
necessary steps to submit this resolution for
amending the Constitution to the votes of the
sons of women. We believe that you will do
your duty. The eyes of the world are upon you.
Oregon has already written her name higher
than that of any other State in the Union in
her recognition of equal rights fer the mothers
of men. Her legislation has been liberal, be-
cause her sons have been free. Let the grand
picture of the Father of his Country beam upon
you to-night with an inspiration of irresistible
power. You are making history. The same
spirit of liberty that presided over the destinies
of Washington a hundred years ago is presiding
over the destinies of the people of Oregon to-day.
It is in your power to write the name of your
young and growing commonwealth yet higher—
aye, the highest of all in the mighty constella-
tion of the United States of America. It is in
your power to place the honor upon the brow of
Oregon that alone can accrue to the State which
shall take the lead in this grand movement for
the enfranchisement of the mothers of men.
The blue air of the hoary mountains has an-
swered back to the pellucid atmosphere of the
billowy ocean, and filled the men and women of 
this grand young State with the electric fires of
an exalted patriotism. Our people have inhaled
the spirit of liberty with their very breath. Let
them give Oregon an opportunity to lead the
van in the great galaxy of the States that will
surely fall into line when you shall have set the
grand example, and your descendants shall see
her shine in the history of the centuries to come
with a luster that shall dim the glory of a Massa-
chusetts, a North Carolina or an Old Virginia.
Mr. President, I know that this is not the time
or place for discussing the pros and cons of this
woman movement. These will be considered in
their proper place before the people after the ac-
tion of this Honorable Body, for which we now
pray, shall have made it possible for them to
give or withhold their votes upon it. Thanking
you, gentlemen of the Senate, for the high honor
you have conferred upon me in the name of wo-
manhood, in listening thus profoundly to my
feeble utterances, I rest our case in your hands."
	SENATOR HUMPHREY: "Mr. President, * *
I am in favor of granting the right of suffrage
to the women of Oregon. They have earned it
and are entitled to it. The gentleman from Polk
assures us that his wife is better than a China-
man. I cordially agree with him in that. She
is not only better than a Chinaman, but she is
better than he is. He says that women ought
to raise the voters and teach them how to vote.
This they do already; and they have been at
work at it for the past hundred years. And it is 
folly to say that a woman who is capable of in-
structing and influencing voters is not fit to vote
herself. Many of them are much wiser than
we are, Mr. President; and all of them have the
same physical and mental necessities that we
possess, and the same inherent, inalienable right


to liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Women
are not complaining about natural laws. So far
as I know, no woman who wants the ballot
wishes to be a man; and, even should they wish
to be men in our stead, the Senator from Polk
needn't be afraid of the consequences, for there
is a higher law than man can make, or woman
can break, that settles that question. The Sena-
tor isn't very good-looking, aud it is just possible
<l-16klng add’="" it="" is="" just;="" possibly'="" thath'6="" m&y'="" nor,="" get="" .thevqtelbt'wdm.en.tp="" rbi="" turn="" him="" to="" .office;="" but="" i="" haye="" no="" iear="" on="" that="" score;="" shah="" vote="" for="" the="" resolution.”'="" senator="" hainis;="" “mr.,president,="" earl="" of="" aj'rlie,="" ffphj.="" thdhingdom.pf="" $ritmh,="" inakliff="" oregon="" a.="" visitr.="" !ouj="" are="" ,aixe,?that.="" a="" viast'ambuht;="" hcotiph="" capital="" mginviited="" amohk’iisand="" that'many="" our'greatesteh="" ter-="" prise3flfor'tfan9ik)rtation'="" ’jn="" jiands’.of="" efcjghipd's!="" bjebte'="" there-is="" howa="" jtfoj&fln="" progress="" for;cdttipg="" capad="" 'through="" ‘the="" isthmus="" pahatna,="" aha="" 5y&="" to,="" be,="" hackednncipili="">that he may not get the votes of women to re-
turn him to office; but I have no fear on that
score. I shall vote for the resolution."
	SENATOR HAINES; "Mr. President, the Earl
of Airlie, from the kingdom of Great Britain, is
making Oregon a visit. You are aware that a
vast amount of Scotch capital is being invested
among us, and that many of our greatest enter-
prises for transportation are in the hands of
England's subjects. There is now a project in
progress for cutting a canal through the Isthmus
of Panama, and it is to be backed principally by
English capital. And it does seem to me that
if Queen Victoria can manage, with unparalleled
success, the greatest financial schemes of the
world, and preside with becoming wisdom and
proper dignity overt the kingdom that controls a
Gladstone, or a Beaconsfield, the women of Ore-
gon ought to be allowed to vote. Sir, the day is
not far distant when a woman—probably the
lady who has addressed us to-night—will occupy
your seat as President of this Senate Chamber.
And why not? May not a woman of Oregon oc-
cupy a chair like that, if Queen Victoria can oc-
cupy a throne? We shall be spared the disgrace-
ful scenes that mar the good name of the Federal
Congress when women take their proper place
as co-workers with men in making laws. I
shall vote for the resolution."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
VISITING TOUR.

	Mrs. E. S. Taylor well known here as one of
the leading women in Israel, left this city Aug.
5th, to visit her friends in the East, and meet
her husband Elder George H. Taylor returning
from his mission to England. She traveled to
Chicago in company with some acquaintances,
where she took a branch of the North Western
Railroad and went to near Milwaukee, staying
about a week with relatives in Wisconsin; who
were delighted to see her and anxious to hear all
about Utah and the people. Leaving the West
she journeyed to the State of New York, visiting
Niagra Falls on her route, admiring its mag-
nificent and wonderful beauty, as all strangers
invariably do. She stopped in Rochester where
she was warmly welcomed by numerous rela-
tives and friends. There she visited all the
places of note, and reports it the most beautiful
city for cleanliness, shrubbery, flowers and also
in many other respects of any city she visited
while absent from home. Most of her time
there was spent at a country seat on Lake On-
tario, situated in a very romantic spot,and while
there she enjoyed herself very much in family
gatherings got up for her especial benefit, social
parties out-doors and in,boat rides, sails by moon-
light and pleasure parties of almost all kinds.
At one of these gatherings there were twenty-five
relatives mostly cousins; and thus the hours
passed swiftly by.
	One or two of the Rochester papers gave her
rather lengthy notices, spoke highly of her as an
intelligent educated lady, and gave a brief
synopsis of her views upon marriage and her
family affairs. Refered to her husband as a pros-
perous business man and alluded to his European
mission. Mrs. Taylor's relatives introduced her
into the best society where she had ample op-
portunity to converse with an intelligent class of
people.
	From Rochester her route was to Utica where
she visited places of interest, the one which at-
tracted her attention most was the New York
State Insane Asylum. It contains six hundred
inmates. The building is in the form of a court
and the grounds are laid out in the most sym-
metrical order, adorned with shade trees, shrub-
bery, vines and flowers and walks, all complete.
Everything has been arranged for the amuse-
ment of the inmates who are able to participate
in out door exercises, such as croquet, base-ball;
quoits and such like sports. Inside is a very
fine library, views and sterescope, piano and
other musical instruments in fact all that would
contribute to make a home pleasent. The most
perfect order prevails throughout every depart-
ment of the house and grounds. Leaving Utica
she passed through the Oneida community and
traveled down through Courtlandt and Shenan-
doah counties; all along are little villages and

[Column 2]
small quaint country towns nestled down among
the hills. Mrs. Taylor was visiting the country
after twenty-one years absence. Many scenes
and incidents were brought back to recollection
that she had nearly forgotten; which were
pleasant to revert to. She pursuded this route to
Newark, New Jersey, where she spent about four
weeks among relatives meantime mak-
ing frequent visits to New York and the
surrounding country, visited Central Park,Green-
wood, and Coney Island; spent one lovely Sab-
bath day there, when there were twenty-one
thousand bathing in the sea; Gilmore's Band
playing at Manhattan, and another at Brighton
Beach. It seemed as if the Sabbath was en-
tirely ignored by these pleasure seekers. She
went up the Hudson River to Haverstraw, the
place where she was married many years ago.
Mrs. Taylor tells us she wanted very much to
bring the Hudson River and Lake Ontario home
with her.
	At Newark she visited the Insane Asylum of
Essex County, which contained two hundred
and seventy inmates; they also have belonging
to that county eighty insane persons in the State
Asylum. Mrs. Taylor had every opportunity to
speak of our people socially and politically, as
well as religiously. She was at all times cour-
teously treated by those she met, and many in-
quiries made of her concerning her people and
the country generally.
	While fifteen miles out of New York a tele-
gram came that the Steamer Nevada would
reach harbor the next morning; as she crossed
the Hoboken ferry she saw the steamer sailing
up the bay. She had been separated from her
husband nearly two years—it is n[--]dless to des-
cribe the joyful meeting. Mr. and Mrs. Taylor
remained in the vicinity of New York about ten
days longer, visiting friends and notable places.
They traveled westward by the Alleghany route,
the scenery at that season being most charming,
the heavy foliage exquisitely tinted, and the
weather lovely. At Chicago they met Miss Ida
Cook returning home, and as there were several
returning missionaries, the party was a very
pleasant one. Mr. George S. Taylor met his
father and mother at Evanston, and other
friends were waiting in Ogden. They arrived
here on the evening of October 2d, satisfied with
the trip, but glad to be at home once more.


[Column 1]

R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

Fountain Green.
	The Conference of the Primary Association
of Fountain Green was held in the schoolhouse,
October 4, 1880. There was a good attendance
of the Association, and of the parents. Bish-
op R. L. Johnson and his Counselors, Martin
Lund and Reuben Carter, were also present.
	Meeting was called to order by Sister Har-
riet Huggins, President of the Association.
Sang, "We thank Thee, O God, for a prophet."
Prayer by William Adams, Jun., aged six
years. Children sang. Minutes of the first
and last meeting were then read and accepted.
The programme was then presented to the au-
dience, which consisted of select readings, reci-
tations, essays, repeating the articles of faith
in concert, and other exercises; after which
Bishop R. L. Johnson spoke to the children
and sisters most encouragingly. Bro. Martin
Lund also addressed the audience, expressing
great pleasure. Bro. Reuben Carter followed
in a similar strain.
	The financial report for the year was then
read: Received from the members, $11,28.
Disbursements for the year: two quilts pieced
by the children and donated to the Manti Tem-
ple, valued at $14; also $4 in cash to the Manti
Temple; for cards and stationery, $1,60. Prof-
its on home industries, $8,32.
	Candy and other presents were then distrib-
uted among the children, which pleased them
exceedingly.
	HARRIET HUGGINS, Pres't,
	ANNIE ANDERSON, Sec'y.
	ELIZA CALLARD, Ass't  Sec'y.

CONCHO, APACHE CO., ARIZONA.
	The Relief Society of this place was organ-

[Column 2]

ized on the 14th of March, 1880, by Elders
John W. Young and Lorenzo H. Hatch, with
the following named officers: Matilda P. Kil-
lian, President; May Hettabell Brady and
Elizabeth J. Pulsipher, Counselors; Lucinda
J. Clemons, Secretary, add Charlotte Monk,
Treasurer.
	We are getting along very well; our Presi-
dent is an energetic woman, and one that is
qualified for the position she holds, and is al-
ways prompting the sisters to be up and alive
to their duties. We meet often and are united;
hold speaking meetings every fast day. We
read the EXPONENT and pray for its success.
	May the Lord bless the Relief Societies
throughout Israel. Your sister in the Gospel,
	LUCINDA J. CLEMONS.

PIMA, PIMA Co., ARIZONA.
	The sisters of this place were organized into
a Relief Society on the first day of July,1880,
by our President, J. K. Rogers, with Sister
Mary L. Ransom, President, Sisters Josephine
Rogers and Caroline Teeples, Counselors. We
have thirty-four members enrolled, and are do-
ing very well for the short time we have been
organized; we hope to be able to send in a fa-
vorable report as soon as we have had time to
see what we can do.
	We ever pray for the welfare of all our sis-
ters and for the prosperity of all their right-
eous undertakings.
	MARY L. RANSOM, Pres't,
	HARRIET B. TEEPLES, Sec'y.

	The Relief Societies of Weber County held
their Quarterly Conference in the Ogden Tab-
ernacle on Thursday, September 16. 1880.
There was a good attendance from the county,
as well as the city. The meeting was conduct-
ed by Pres. J. S. Richards. After the usual
singing and prayer, the reports were read from
the different societies throughout the Stake.
	The remainder of the morning was taken up
by President D. H. Peery, who delivered a
very interesting discourse. He was followed
by Sister Higbee.
	The afternoon was occupied by the several
presidents, who gave a verbal report of their
respective societies, and bore a true and faith-
ful testimony to the work of God. The sisters
all feel well in their religion. The meeting
was adjourned until December 9, 1880.
	JANE S. RICHARDS, Pres't.
	H. M. W. POULTER, Sec'y.

	Y. L. M. I. A. Quarterly Conference of We-
ber Stake of Zion was held in the Ogden Tab-
ernacle, Sept. 17, 1880, commencing at ten A.
M.; Mrs. Sarah Herrick presiding. Opened
with singing and prayer. The reports were
read, with good showing from the several asso-
ciations. Bishop McQuarrie then addressed
the young ladies, exhorting them to lay aside
the follies of the world and cling closer to their 
religion and their God; to improve in all the
principles pertaining to the Gospel, not only
spiritually, but temporally. He spoke encour-
agingly of many things for the good of the
young, and was listened to with great interest
by the congregation. He was followed by
Mrs. M. J, Tanner, of Provo, who bore a faith-
ful testimony to the work of God; she was
pleased to see so many young ladies engaged in
the work of mutual improvement; knew that
they would one and all be blest in striving to
keep the laws of our heavenly Father, who
witholds no good gifts from his children if they
will earnestly seek to do his will and keep his
commandments. Bishop Hammond of Hunts-
ville spoke in a very kindly and encouraging
manner to the young sisters, he was followed
by Brother Wm. Wright. The afternoon meet


[Column 1]
ing commenced with singing and prayer after
which Sister Sarah Herrick and Counselors
made a few remarks, the Presidents of
each society then bore their testimony and
gave a report of their societies; all are doing
well, the young ladies are taking a lively in-
terest in their meetings, and are striving to im-
prove in all things that will tend to make them
good and able women in Zion.
				SARAH HERRICK, Pres.
				ROSE CANFIELD, Sec'y.

	The Primary Associations of Weber Stake
of Zion, held their Conference, in the Taber-
nacle, Ogden City, Sept. 18th, 1880. Mrs
Josephine R. West presiding. We had in at-
tendance several of the Bishops and the fathers
and mothers of the children. The children
took up the time in the morning in singing and
reciting appropriate peices. The afternoon
meeting was continued with much the same ex-
ercises excepting the remarks made by the
presidents who felt that God was blessing them
in their labors with the children. The Presi-
dent then nominated her Counselors Sister E.
J. Stanford and Sister Rose Canfield, to assist
her, also Sister Mary A. Ellis Secretary, and
Emily Newman Treasurer, they were unanim-
ously sustained by the parents and children.
After singing and prayer, the Conference ad-
journed for three months, all went home feeling
well and happy.
				JOSEPHINE WEST, Pres.
				MARY A. ELLIS, Sec'y.

	Minutes of Conference of Y. L; M. I. A., of
Bear Lake Stake, held in St. Charles Aug.
29th, 1880, at 2 P. M. President Nancy Pug-
mire presiding. Present of the Stake presi-
dency, James H. Hart, Bishop Hunt and presi-
dency of Relief Societies. Meeting opened by
singing, and prayer by Elder J. O. Stewart.
Singing "Arise my Soul arise." Roll was
called and minutes of previous Conference
read and approved. The Secretary then read
the Statistical and Financial reports, showing
an increase of members and funds since last
Conference. Verbal reports were then called
for by the President from the various associa-
tions, all of which gave unmistakable evidence
that the young ladies interests were in the as-
cendant, and although somewhat isolated, and
deprived of many advantages enjoyed in a
more thickly populated district of country, they
are wide awake to the necessity of using all the
means and opportunities to advance themselves
in the scale of intelligence; thereby fitting them-
selves for the grand future that awaits them.
	Counselor Alice Rich, urged upon the young
ladies the necessity of devoting their
leisure moments to the perusal of the
Church works, in order to become
familiar with the principles of our religion;
so if called upon to expound or defend
its principles they could do so understandingly,
and thus prove to the world, that we possess a
greater amount of intelligence than has been
accredited us. President Nancy Pugmire,
wished the young ladies to continue editing
manuscript, papers in their Associations, as it
unfolded a wide field for thought, and by con-
tinued efforts in that direction as a natural
consequence their minds would expand, and
they would become greater and wiser; eluci-
dated with great force the many opportunities
afforded us to acquire knowledge, compared
with those which our parents had. Wished
the presidents to use their means and influence
in helping towards the erection of a high
school in Paris, and thus advance the educa-
tional interests of the Stake. Told the young
ladies to be considerate of their parents, in
their declining years, and sometimes sacrifice
their feelings in their favor, and then when
memory reverts back what a source of comfort

[Column 2]
and satisfaction it will bring. Counseler Annie
Cook spoke very earnestly in regard to the
young ladies patronizing home industries, said
this was one avenue open for action. that we
had the material within our reach for the man-
ufacture of home made hats, and we had sisters
of experience among us who were willing to in-
struct us, so there was no reason to prevent our
going into the business more extensively. Now
that the season for gleaning was fast approach-
ing, she hoped the girls would do all they could
to store away grain that would otherwise be
wasted; knew the young ladies had been or-
ganized for the accomplishment of a great and
good purpose; so let us labor diligently.
President Lindsay felt to congratulate the
young sisters in the progress they had made,
felt confident that Sister Pugmire and Coun-
selors had the spirit of their calling upon them
by the advancement they had made, counseled
the young not to give too much of their time
and means to outward adornment, but rather
use it to the building up of God's kingdom, up-
on which we would be reaping an interest
throughout the countless ages of eternity.
Continue to cultivate your minds for this is an
age of progression, and much is expected at
your hands. Singing by the Choir, "In the
City of our Lord."
	Benediction by Brother George Passey.
Meeting adjourned for six months. L. M.
Hart, Sec'y.
	Statistical and Financial reports of the Pri-
mary Associations of the Bear Lake Stake, from
March 1st, 1880, Aug. 28th, 1880.
	Statistical; officers, 53; members 622; total
officers and members, 675; meetings held, 237;
average attendance, 274.
	Financial: Receipts in cash, $1,80; property,
22,23; disbursments, to missionaries, property,
$6,69; temple, $9,44;books,cash 1.05; amount on
hand: cash, $75; property, 37,11.
			JULIA P. LINDSAY, Pres.
			ELIZABETH PUGMIRE. Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 87


EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER.

				SNOWFLAKE, ARIZONA.

MRS. E. R. SNOW SMITH:

	Dear Sister:—Saturday, August 14, I started,
in company with Bishop Hunt and his daugh-
ter, who is President of the Young Ladies'
Associations of this Stake and Stake Secretary
for the Relief Society; she is a young lady of
fine ability, speaks the Spanish language, and
sings several songs beautifully in Spanish; we
also had the company of Brother Thomas West,
Superintendent of the Sunday Schools of this
Stake, and Brother Rogers, President of the
Young Men's Associations; we traveled some
two hundred miles, holding meetings and or-
ganizing.
	We held joint meetings in connection with
the brethren, in consequence of all having a
desire to do so; there was a general tnrn out,
and a great deal of interest manifested by the
brethren and sisters. They felt well, and the
Spirit of God was poured out upon us to en-
courage us.
	On our tour we had the pleasure of camping
ing out three nights; we enjoyed songs and
sweet music from the voices of my son Joseph
and Miss Ida Hunt, who took their guitars
along, which was a treat to the Saints where
we visited. Miss Nannie Freeman, niece of the
well known Bishop Smoot, and Secretary of
the Young Ladies, was one of the company.
	We expect to hold our first Quarterly Con-
ference at Snowflake on the 25th and 26th of
September, 1880, when the secretaries will
make out reports and send to the Secretary.
Mrs. S. M. Kimball. The Primary Associa-
tions are not yet organized.
	Any counsel you may think proper to give


relative to the organizations of the sisters in
this Stake of Zion, will be thankfully received.
The subjects we have laid before the sisters are
the training and taking care of their children,
the importance of establishing home industries,
and keeping out of our settlements outside ele-
ments, Babylon and her fashions, the making
of our own hats and storing of grain, sustaining
the Priesthood, subscribing for and reading the
EXPONENT, so as to be posted in relation to
the counsels of our sisters who are appointed
to preside. 
	God has blessed us abundantly in this land;
the hills and valleys wherever we go are cov-
ered with a mantle of green, and the fields
with waving grain; the beasts of the field are
made to rejoice, and the everlasting hills echo
the praises of our God, because of the blessings
of the Holy Priesthood that have come upon
the land.
	I must say before I close that I am not only
encouraged but delighted with the sisters whose
acquaintance I have made in this Stake. Bro. 
Jesse N's family is worthy of imitation, also
the families of Bro. Hunt and Bro. Hatch,
whose daughters have learned the Spanish lan-
guage. We desire an interest in the prayers
of the Saints. With love to yourself and
council, I am as ever devoted to the interest
of Zion.
	W.  EAST.


LETTER FROM HYRUM.

							OCTOBER 20, 1880.
	DEAR SISTER WELLS: The sisters here are all
alive to their duties as a Relief Society and de-
sire to do their part in rolling on this mighty
work in building temples, clothing the needy, or
anything required of them. According to coun-
sel from our beloved Sister E. R. S. Smith, we
have made a small beginning in silk culture.
One of our faithful sisters J. Nielson has raised
this season about 10 lbs. of beautiful cocoons for
which she received a Diploma at our fair,
which encouraged her to "try again." We feel sure
that the climate is favorable for raising silk.
We look anxiously forward to the time when we
shall be blest with a visit from some of our be-
loved sisters from Salt Lake City, and receive
some instructions and encouragement from
them. We are pleased to read in Our Paper the
different ideas of our sisters with regard to polit-
ical rights and say God bless them for so nobly
defending the franchise. We feel to coincide
with them. Why are we not organized in a
Stake? What have we done that we should be
left out in the cold?
	Very Respectfully Your Sisters in the Gospel.
					C. LILJENQUIST, Pres.
					N. N. NEILSON, Sec'y.


AMONG THE GRAVES.

	Who is there that cannot sympatize with
us when we talk of spending an hour among
the graves? Who has not been called to follow
some loved one to his last resting place? And
if, perchance, there should be any (few indeed
their number) who have not been called to
consign those near and dear to them to the si-
lent recesses of the tomb, yet have they visited
the house of affliction, to comfort the mourner,
to pour the balm of sympathy and consolation
into the sorrowing hearts of the bereaved ones,
to weep with those that weep, and with willing
hands assist in performing the last rites for the
departed—so sad, and yet so necessary! Then
we join the train of mourners, and follow the
remains to their last resting place, and feel the
heart pang that all must experience when the
first earth drops on the narrow abode of those
so loved; the earth closes over them, and we
see them no more. Perhaps we return a few
times, perchance to scatter a few flowers, or
raise some monument to the memory of the
dead. Then we stand among the graves, and
ponder, and seek to penetrate the mystery of
the tomb, and of our being. Lying all around


us are the trappings and spoils of the grim
monster, Death—from the infant of a day to
the aged patriarch; the maiden in the first
blush of womanhood the youth, just entering
on the joys and ambitions of life; the mother,
who is cut off in the midst of her usefulness;
the strong man in his prime, the man of wis-
dom, and the man who has spent his days in
sin and sold himself for naught. The strength
of the strongest has become weak, and all have
succumbed to the power of the great destroyer,
Death.
	And is there no escape from thee, thou
mighty Conqueror? Must our eyes ever dwell
on the darkness of the tomb? Is there no
hope? O, yes; for when we raise our tearful
eyes, and in anguish of spirit breathe a silent
prayer to the Father of mercy to heal our
broken hearts and send comfort to us in our af-
fliction, the sweet and consoling influence of
the Spirit of the Lord descends upon us, and
we are enabled to leave the darkness of the
tomb, and to understand that the sting of death
has been taken away, and the darkness of the
grave been conquered; for heaven-born Faith
raises her glorious pinion and soars aloft to
where sits the Redeemer, who was tempted in
all things like unto us, yet without sin. Who
broke the bonds of death and the grave, and
ever liveth to make intercession for us who
love Him and keep his commandments.
	And glorious Hope casts her anchor sure
and steadfast within the veil of the promises,
judging Him faithful, Who has promised, know-
ing that He doeth all things well. And there
must needs be a space between the time of
death and the resurrection; and mighty Love,
stronger than death, casteth out all fear, and
anticipates the rest that remains for the people
of God; while with Faith's strong-reading eye
we pierce the future, and behold in anticipation
the glories and triumphs of the Saints—when
the Lamb shall stand upon Mount Zion with
the great company of the redeemed, who have
come up through great tribulation; when the
tears shall be wiped from off all faces, and
sickness, sorrow, pain and death be felt and
feared no more.
	Then let us leave the silent inhabitants of
the graves to rest in peace, till the glorious
morning of the resurrection, when they shall
come forth in immortality, to inherit the glory
prepared for them. And let us who are still
left to toil and suffer in the great battle of life,
so live, that when the summons comes for us,
when "the silken cord shall be loosed and the
golden bowl be broken;" when the shadows of
the dark valley surround us, though the waters
may be cold, and nature shrinks abashed, may
we meet Death, not as a conqueror, but as a
friend. "Oh, Death, where is thy sting! Oh,
Grave, where is thy victory!"
								N. C. Y,


88	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMEN ARE TAX PAYERS.

	Are women not tax payers? In looking over
the "News" of the 29th Sept., my eye rested on
disfranchisement of Women; in reading the
paragraphs what was my surprise and indigna-
tion towards our so called "Liberal" citizens;
shall I call them? No; they cannot be liberal
after enjoying the franchise for ten years, at
this late date to wish to deprive us of our
rights: not tax payers? Ah! I think we are very
heavy tax payers. Does not every wife own
property in connection with her husband? I
think so. Does not her labor help to make
that property? Does she not stand by her hus-
band as a help, and rear the boys to work out
the poll tax? Yes we do, and often our lot is
hard and tedious, are we not always ready to
advise and counsel for the best, and willing to
suffer with our husbands sons, fathers? Yes we
are, and lend a helping hand when needed


Have these would be "liberal" men a mother
a wife a sister? It would seem not; or do they
think Mormon women so weak-minded that
we will not try to defend ourselves? We ask
for the justice and freedom that belong to
American citizens, and wish to vote for men of
integrity and those that will stand by the con-
stitution of our country.
	Women not tax payers, indeed! but very few
are not. We pay our taxes with our husbands.
Many women own property of their own; 'tis
but a plea, a plan to hurl another shot, but
they will miss as they always have; and it only
helps to fill up the pages of the past; we will
see who will be the winner, God is at the
helm sisters! let us stand up for our rights and
defend our position on this question intel-
ligently and honorably. Let us be united and
humble and trust to providence, and we will
see that good will be the result. We will rely
on the strength of Israel's God, while our
enemies rely on their own strength; and they
will fall, while we will stand. Let us be firm
and stand up nobly in our own defence, and
not be unjustly deprived of our lawful rights.
						JANE C. JOHNSON.
	Johnson, Kane Co. Utah.


THE WOMAN’S CONGRESS.

	The Woman’s Congress assembled in this
city and in session as we go to press, held its
first public meeting on Wednesday afternoon,
in the new Meionaon Hall in Tremont Temple.
	It was a remarkable gathering of women
who had come from the Rocky Mountains, and
all the way between, with an earnest purpose
to contribute something to the solution of im-
portant questions.
	To me, it was an unmixed pleasure to look
over that audience of intelligent women, who
were dealing ably with grave topics of profound
interest to human well-being. There came
back to my mind in vivid contrast a meeting
of the Association of Congregational Ministers
of Massachusetts in North Brookfield in 1837,
where I heard the dangers that “threaten the
female character with wide-spread and per-
manent injury,” set forth in a “pastoral letter,”
which was called out by the fact that the voices
of three peerless women, Angelina and Sarah
Grimke, and Abby Kelly Foster had been lifted
up for the sake of the slave.
	Between that time, when everybody gazed
with gaping wonder at a woman who spoke in
public, as at a spectacle, and this, the great
changes have been wrought by which the doors
utterly closed before to the expression of the
feminine half of humanity have been opened.
One result is this Woman’s Congress. Can we
help hailing it with profound gratitude? A
fuller report of its doings will be given next
week.						L.S.
—Womam's Journal. October, 14.


Self-control is a powerful weapon, working
silently and effectually in emergencies and
difficulties.


[column 1]
	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
	PHYSICIAN AND  SURGEON.
	OFFICE in Bishop Hunter's old residence, between Z. C. M.
I. and the National Bahk.
	RESIDENCE 11th Ward, 7th East Street, between South and
1st South Streets, west side of street.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

	THE  LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
	BEST  SELECTED  STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES &  SLIPPERS,
	Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
	Children's Fine Shoes,
To be found in the West.		Your Orders are Solicited.
		GEO. DUNFORD.

[column 2]
	ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.
	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
	RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
	—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL  AND EXAMINE
	Fall and Winter Goods.

	ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.
	OFFICE on Main St., over Calder's Music Store.
	RESIDENCE  on South Temple Street, between 9th and
16th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children 
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

	DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
	MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

		Z. C. M. I.
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
	GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, 

AT TEASDEL'S
	LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
	S. P. TEASDEL.

	A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets, 	Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
Flannels, 	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls, 		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys, 		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
	FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS, WALL PAPER
	—AND—
	BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
	SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
	DENTIST.

[to the right of an image of teeth and bone]
SPECIAL  ATTENTION  PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set in the
Most Approved Manner. P[--]CES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.

OFFICE: — MAIN ST., OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
	P. O. BOX,[54],


WOMAN'S   EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

