VOL. 9.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1881.	NO. 20.


THE PIONEER MOTHERS.

	Written for the 74th Birthday Anniversary of Sister
Phebe Woodruff, and respectfully inscribed to all the
pioneer mothers and veterans of Zion.

A song for the mothers! the pioneer mothers!
	The veterans of Zion, our boast of to-day;
The world may discard them, but God will reward them,
	He'll crown them as queens in his kingdom for aye.

The staunch Pilgrim Mothers! The brave Mormon
	Mothers!
	Who time and again of their all have been shorn;
The blessing of God o'er their loyalty hovers,
	Who honored the truth 'mid oppression and scorn.

The sonnd of salvation, astonished the nation—
	So used was the world to the darkness of night;
That the silence was broken, Jehovah had spoken,
Was "shameful delusion," 'twas sacrilege quite.

Dupes, fools and deceivers, men called Truth's believers,
	The faithful were hunted and scorned and oppressed;
Nor Justice, nor jury condemned the mob's fury—
	What right had the Mormons to hope for redress?

What a social convulsion! the utter expulsion
	Of the Saints from their loved, from their fated
	Nauvoo;
The martyr's blood even is crying to heaven!
	To the righteous Avenger, "the Holy and True."

We honor the heroes, whose heads are now hoary,
	Who fought in those battles for truth and for right;
They shall live in our hearts, and the mantle of glory
	Shall encircle them still, like a halo of light.

We honor our brethren, so fearless and zealous,
	Who conquered the desert in Liberty's cause;
But the scrolls of the past most assuredly tell us
	That the Mothers of Zion, should share the applause.

May their deeds stir to valor the young generation,
	May they cleave to the faith with their natures en-
	twin'd,
True scions of Freedom, though some may mislead
	them,
They'll yet build the Kingdom Jehovah designed.

Of course they have failings—and none are without
	them—
	Yet the faults of the true are as specks on the wave;
Mortality's weakness must needs be about them,
	But some will do honor to parents so brave.

Then a song for the Mothers, the Pioneer Mothers,
	And the true Mormon Mothers of even to-day;
The world may discard them, but God will reward them,
	He'll crown them as queens in his Kingdom for aye.
	EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
	S. L. City, March.


[Column 1]
LIVING LINKS:
OR
SPIRITUAL AND TEMPORAL.

BY AVONDALE.

CONTINUED.

	A few years previous to the preaching of the
Gospel in England by the Latter-day Saints,
there were devout persons amongst almost every
denomination of Christians, as there are now;
but at that time, especially from the year 1830
to 1835, there was a large average of that class
 of worshippers. A movement commenced at
Preston, the very place where the great tem-
perance movement was begun in 1833; some of
the Apostles of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints arrived there from Amer-
ica, and they began to preach the doctrines be-
lieved in by the members of that Church.
The history of the doings of our people in

[Column 2]
England is before the world, as written in our
publications, and as placed on record by those
who were opposed to us as a people. With
great rapidity it became known in religious
circles that the new sect founded by Joseph
Smith had been introduced from America, and
that thousands were being proselyted by the
preaching of the "Mormon" missionaries. This
caused considerable alarm, for it was soon dis-
covered that those who received the new doc-
trines were among the very best of the various
churches. But this was not all; it was found
useless to attempt to persuade the new converts
to return back to their former church asso-
ciates. Many were the speculations as to the
cause of this perversity; persons were "labored
with" by zealous members, but in vain. The
conclusion was soon reached that it was "better
to let people alone when they joined the 'Mor-
mons,' for they became crazy with fanaticism."
	With such an extensive organization as the
London City Mission, it was impossible to es-
cape notice that thousands were being "delud-
ed;" every week the missionaries belonging to
that body gave in their reports at a central
office, and however much rejoicing was mani-
fested when an announcement was made of
some case of "conversion," great indignation
was expressed at the reports of people being
"deluded" and led away by the "Mormons."
"Why," said a superintendent of that Mission
to the writer, "I should really not have known
but what this 'Mormon' was a Christian!" The
gentleman had been appointed by the Mission
to visit one of the new converts, to see if he
could reclaim him. He went on: "When I
went into his room he rose from his seat and
shook hands with me heartily. He was of the
poorer class, but surrounded by all that is nec-
essary to make a working man's home com-
fortable. I told him the purport of my visit;
that I was sorry he had turned his back upon
the people of God and gone after the followers
of a false prophet like Joseph Smith. 'How
do you know that Joseph Smith was a false
prophet?' asked the 'Mormon' convert, without
betraying the least acerbity of feeling. I tried
to reason with him, by showing him that proph-
ets are not appointed by the Lord as they were
anciently, but I found I had a biblical Goliath
to do battle with. He took down the Bible
and tried to show me 'there could be no true
church without [--]ophets and Apostles.' He
argued that 'wherever the Church of Christ is
found, there the ordinances of the Gospel are
administered.' That 'faith in God and repent-
ence must go before baptism;' that 'baptism
must be for the remission of sins;' that to be effi-
cacious 'it must be administered by one who
has received authority from God.' It was vain
to try to show him that the command given to
the disciples anciently to go forth and baptize
was a divine command to-day to all who be-
lieved in baptism as 'a sign of spiritual grace,'
or 'to answer a good conscience.' He insisted
that 'those who are baptized should know that
their sins are forgiven, and that 'they should re-
ceive the Holy Ghost as a witness from God that
they have obeyed His commands, and had
been baptized by His authority.' All this and
a great deal more was said with an assurance
that astonished me, and I must also say in a
Christian spirit that I certainly had not ex-
pected." The writer ventured to hint that the
"Mormon" seemed to be as sound in his theolo-
gy as the writers of the New Testament Scrip-
tures. "Self-righteousness, all of it: efficacy

[Column 3]
in the water, in the laying on of hands, and
outward ordinances! There is no efficacy in
anything but the blood of Jesus Christ, and
him crucified," he replied.
	Not only were the churches of England los-
ing some of their most earnest members by
reason of the preaching of the Latter-day El-
ders, large numbers were being drafted into
infidelity. Probably the great rejoicings among
religious bodies at the time the Prophet Joseph
Smith was murdered, had a greater effect in
that direction than the opposition shown to the
doctrines of his followers. Thinking men
could not have a very exalted opinion of those
who indulged in the spirit of murder; and the
sceptical in the churches, who were not a few
among the young, these forsook the association
of religionists and sought for solace in the as-
semblies of infidels of the most extreme class.
The revival spirit gradually died out from the
churches; those who had proclaimed that Jesus
was coming became silent; prophecies about
the Millennium being at hand ceased to be ut-
tered; reverend pamphleteers who had pre-
dicted the day and hour in which Christ should
appear, after once or twice correcting dates,
and still finding their prognostications were-
false, these also ceased to prophesy. The truth
appears to be that the Spirit of the Lord that
had really exerted an influence among men for-
a season, had either been withdrawn in degree,
or had changed its operations in some new di-
rection.
	Now Mr. Unipod, the missionary, had a great
dislike to "Mormonism," and he, in common
with other religious persons, had at length
given up the second advent of our Lord Jesus
Christ. But his eldest son had heard the Gos-
pel at one of the meetings of the Latter-day
Saints; as a consequence of this he had been
baptized and received the Holy Ghost, by
which he was enabled to see in a degree the
true meaning and intent of God towards the
human family. The truth is the mother of
this man had been a woman of faith, and she
had taught her son the value of prayer as a
means to obtain favor with God. She pointed
to the experience of Saints in all ages, as made
known in the history of the patriarchs and
prophets; she explained the meaning of dreams
and visions, and the reality of the visits of an-
gels to men. She taught her child to pray
from his earliest infancy, and the lesson was
never forgotten. However wayward and dis-
posed to wander in by and forbidden paths, the
prayers of the mother were remembered and
false steps were retraced. Oh, did women
know the power they have over their offspring,
there would be more faith in the world than
there is; for little children believe in a mother!
The germ of faith may be planted in the
youngest heart, and, if it is constantly watered
by the dews of heaven drawn down by a moth-
er's prayers, the truth will never die! As in
the natural world the spiritual controls the
temporal, the ethereal and unseen forces bind-
ing them together, so in the world of mind
there are living links connecting families, by
which the spirit of the fathers and the children-
are united by the welding influences of the
spirit of our Heavenly Father.

To be Continued.


The Czar of Russia Alexandea II was brutal-
ly assassinated by the Nihilists, a bombshell
thrown ander his carriage, March 13, 1881.
He died two hours after.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
[Column 1]
LIFE INCIDENTS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

CONTINUED.
	My father begins his own life by saying: "I
was born June 14, 1801, in the town of Shel-
don, Franklin Co., Vermont, about forty miles
from Montreal, ten miles from the shores of
Lake Champlain, and ten miles from St. Al-
bans, the county town, living between the Ma-
sisko and Black rivers.
	"Judge Chase, with whom my father was
brought up, called to see my parents soon after
I was born, and he proposed to name me Heber
Chase, which they did.
	"About the time of the great eclipse in 1806,
I commenced going to school, and continued
most of the time until about the age of four-
teen. I recollect the eclipse well, as my father
was about to start on a journey, but obliged to
wait on account of the darkness.
	"In February, 1811 when my father moved
his family from Sheldon to West Bloomfield, a
distance of about five hundred miles, I remem-
ber when we reached St. Albans my father
bought each of his boys a hat, which was the
first hat I ever had. We traveled on Lake
Champlain on the ice; the wind being very
high, my hat was blown off and lost.
	"When fourteen years of age my father took
me into his shop, and began to teach me the
blacksmith trade. When nineteen, he having
lost his property, and not taking the care for
my welfare which he formerly did, I was left to
seek a place of refuge of my own.
	"At this time I saw some days of sorrow;
my heart was troubled, and I suffered much in
consequence of fear, bashfulness and timidity,
I found myself cast abroad upon the world,
without a friend to console my grief; in those
heart-aching hours I suffered much for the
want of food and the comforts of life, and
many times went two or three days without
food to eat, being bashful and not daring to
ask for it.
	"After I had spent several weeks in the
manner before stated, my oldest brother,
Charles, hearing of my condition, offered to
teach me the potter's trade. I immediately
accepted the offer, and continued with him un-
til I was twenty-one.
	"I was enrolled with my brother Charles in
an independent horse company of the New
York militia, under Captain Sawyer, who lived
in East Bloomfield. With him and his suc-
cessor I trained fourteen years; one year more
would have entitled me to exemption from fur-
ther military duty. I was never brought be-
fore a court martial, or found delinquent in my
duty.
	"While living with my brother he moved into
the town of Mendon, Monroe Co., (six miles
north of Bloomfield, towards the city of
Rochester) where he again established a pot-
tery. After I had finished learning my trade,
I worked for six months with my brother for
wages.
	"Nov. 7, 1822, I married Vilate Murray,
the youngest daughter of Roswell and Susan-
nah Murray, born in Florida, Montgomery Co.,
New York, June 1, 1806. She was their fourth
child, and had lived with her parents in Vic-
tor, Ontario Co."
	I am here reminded of the following inci-
dent, which has in it quite a touch of romance,
and though it is not written in my father's
history, is one that I have heard related in the
family since childhood.
	One warm day in summer, as my father was
riding through the little town of Victor, being
very thirsty, he stopped before a house where a
gentleman was at work in the front yard, and
asked him for a drink of cold water; and as
he went to the well to draw a fresh bucketfull,
he called his daughter Vilate to fetch a glass,

[Column 2]
which he filled and sent by her to the young
stranger, who it seems understood her name to
be Milatie. Not long after this he again had
occasion to go to Victor, and as he came in
sight of this cottage, he suddenly became
thirsty, and seeing the same gentleman, he
rode up to the gate and asked him for a drink
of water. After drawing a fresh bucket he
(my grandfather) was about to hand it himself
when he said: "If you please, I'd rather Mi-
latie would bring it to me;" so he called her
and sent the water by her. She was the
youngest and the pet of the family, who gener-
ally called her Latie; of course this circum-
stance afforded a great deal of fun and amuse-
ment for her sister and brothers.
	Some of our family have been East and vis-
ited the old homesteads in Mendon and Victor,
which still look natural. Of course the scenes
around there had a peculiar charm for them;
they remembered the story of the well, which
they visited, and drank from the "old oaken
bucket, the iron-bound bucket, the moss-covered
bucket that hung in the well."
	My father continues: "Immediately after I
was married I purchased the situation of my
brother Charles, and went into business for
myself at the potter's trade, which I carried
on in the summer season, and worked at black-
smithing in the winter. I also chopped cord
wood and cleared land occasionally. I con-
tinued in the pottery business upwards of ten
years, and in the mean time I made a purchase
of five and a half acres of land, and built a
fine house, woodhouse, barn and other out-
houses, planted fruit trees, and had situated
myself so as to live comfortably."
	"February, 1824, my mother died of con-
sumption in the town of West Bloomfield. In
the spring of 1825 my father came to Mendon
and lived with me; he soon took sick and died
of consumption about a year after my mother's
death. My oldest brother, Charles S., and his
wife, whose maiden name was Judith Marvin,
died in the year 1826 or 7, and were buried in
Mendon by the side of my father. The record
of my father's family fell into the hands of my
sister Eliza, to whom I have written for an ac-
count, but have not yet been able to obtain it.
	"In 1823 I received the three first degrees of
Masonry, namely, entered apprentice, fellow
craft and master mason in the lodge at Victor
Flats, Ontario Co., five miles east of where I
was living, Lote Lawson acting as the Master
of the Lodge, Ezra Wilmoth, Jarvies Gillies,
Enos Gillies, Samuel Gillies and Nathaniel
Campbell (a brother-in-law of mine) were
present at my initiation, with perhaps fifty
others, whom I could mention if necessary.
In 1824 myself and five others sent a petition
to the chapter at Canandaigua, the County
Seat of Ontario County, to receive the degrees
up to the Royal Arch Maso[-], our petition was
accepted, but just previous to the time that we
were to receive those degrees, the Morgan
affair broke out, and the Masonic Hall in
Canandaigua, where the chapter met, was
burned by the Anti-Masons, and all the records
consumed. There are thousands of Masons
that lived in those days who are well aware
of the persecution and unjust proceedings
which were heaped upon them by the Anti-
Masons; not as many as three of us could meet
together, unless in secret, without being
mobbed.
	"I have been driven from my houses and
possessions, with many of my brethren belong-
ing to that fraternity, five times, by mobs led
by some of their leading men. Hyrum Smith
received the three first degrees of Masonry in
Ontario County, New York. Joseph and
Hyrum Smith were Master Masons, yet they
were massacred through the instrumentality of
some of the leading men of that fraternity
through the States, and not one soul of them
has ever stepped forth to administer help to

[Column 3]
me or my brethren belonging to the Masonic
institution, or to render us assistance, although
bound under the strongest obligations to be
true and faithful to each other in every case
and under every circumstance, the commtssion
of crime excepted.
	"I have been as true as an angel from the
heavens to the covenants I made in the Lodge
at Victor. No man was admitted into a Lodge
in those days except he bore a good moral
character and was a man of steady habits; and
a member would be suspended for getting
drunk, or any other immoral conduct. I wish
that all men were Masons and would live up
to their profession; then the world would be
in a much better state than it is now."
	The great blessings now enjoyed by the
Latter-day Saints in these valleys can be better
appreciated when we recall some of the earlier
scenes, when poverty and sufferings were the
common lot of all. The generation of to-day
know little or nothing concerning the history
of those who first stood forth in the defense of
the truths which were taught by Joseph Smith,
the founder of this great and marvelous work
which has caused such a commotion, not only
in America, but throughout every nation; and
this being the fiftieth year, it seems a fitting
time to review their history, and let the world
know that they were Americans, and were
born and reared in the midst of the Green
Mountains, and were true representatives of
the men and women of '76, and that that spirit
of independence has not died out, but is still
burning in the hearts of their children, and
the thousand and one trials which our enemies
have caused us to pass through, have only
fanned the flame. Long and hard have they
fought to hold us under their heel, but all of
their struggles have been in vain. It is true
we have been whipped, but we have never been
conquered; in the midst of what seemed the
most dangerous and critical times, our spirits
were the most buoyant; we were strangers to
fear, and injustice and oppression can never
break nor subdue that spirit. This pure moun-
tain air which we have so long enjoyed has in-
creased that love of freedom, which is our
rightful inheritance, and Americans are paying
themselves rather a poor compliment when tra-
ducing the characters of men and women who
so nearly resemble their own Puritan fathers
and mothers; but in spite of all their efforts
truth will prevail.
	Surely it was the Spirit of the Almighty
that inspired Columbus to seek out the new
world, and filled the hearts of the Pilgrims
with an unquenchable desire for liberty, a boon
that was denied them in their fatherland.
Nothing could daunt their spirits, but placing
their trust in Him, they undertook the perilous
voyage across the great deep, in search of a
home, where they might enjoy freedom and re-
ligious liberty without molestation; and their
children were filled with the same valor and
love for the glorious cause of liberty, which
was their battle cry, and under the sacred ban-
ner of freedom they fought in defense of their
rights, which they have risked so much to gain.
It was the same spirit which animated and in-
spired the hearts of the Latter-day Saints when
they left their homes in the winter to undertake
a journey over the trackless wastes to these
Rocky Mountains, to obtain freedom from tyr-
anny and oppression, where they could enjoy
the rights bequeathed to them by these same
fathers and mothers of our common country,
and added to this is our glorious religion, the
pure Gospel of Christ, revealed through Joseph,
the Prophet of God, by which, instead of bring-
ing us into bondage, every soul is made free.
	To be Continued.


The inauguration of President Garfield was 
the most elaborate of the kind.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ADDRESSED TO MRS. M. KIMBALL
BY HANNAH T. KING.

[Written by request.]

Friend of the opprest! And if no more were said
	'Twould throw a prism'd halo round they name,
'Twould bind a wreath immortal on thy head,
	And make for thee an envied scroll of fame.

Friend of the opprest! Thy voice has ever been
	(With woman's tenderness and native tact.)
Upraised to put down bitterness and spleen
	Against a growing, veritable fact!

Among the Senators, and great ones of the land,
	All thou hadst seen and known—yes, all,
Thous didst declare, with countenance most bland,
	And over which shall ne'er descend a pall.

You came, you saw, and more, you conquered, too,
	The prejudice your mind might entertain;
All you asserted was the truth, you knew,
	And simple truth is easy to explain.

Thy words hereafter on a glittering scroll
	Shall shine immortal in the realms above,
And myriad harps, with sweet and luscious troll,
	Will laud such spirits filled with human love.

Friend of the opprest [-] Such thou hast ever been,
	And firm and faithful in the cause of truth,
And God has blest thee with a mind that's keen,
	And with a heart all human in its ruth.

Friend of the opprest! for you our prayers ascend;
	Long may you live to do much good on earth;
Long may you stand the oppressed to defend,
	And then receive in heaven immortal birth!


[Column 1]
JESSE BURNS, 

OR, 
WAS IT FATE?

	A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONTINUED.

	The winter brought few changes; the moun-
tain passes were blocked with snow, and all
communication with the outside world ceased
for many months. The following spring James
Smith started for the gold mines, with a com-
pany that was going through. His wife hav-
ing no children, and being a dear friend of
Mary's, persuaded her to share her home during
his absence. It was pleasanter for both, as 
they were much alone, and  could be more com-
fortable by living together.
	The long, lonely years crept by, with very little
change to break the monotony. Jesse's part-
ner built a comfortable home for Mary, the
first she had lived in since leaving her nice home
in Nauvoo. She had moved about from one
old cabin to another, with smoky chimneys 
and leaky roofs until life seemed a round of weari
ness and discouragements. She said no one
knew how happy she was to have a roof that
kept her dry when it stormed. Minnie grew
so fast that people began to think her a young
lady. She went to school and made the best
of her opportunities for getting an education;
it was not much, for only the commonest
branches were taught, but it proved a blessing
to her in after life. In writing to her relatives
in the East, she often expressed her regrets at
not having better opportunities.
	The tide of humanity still flowed in to the
Pacific coast and emigration continued to
come to the mountains. Other villages were dis-
covered, other settlements made, and prospects
altogether were improving. The Indians
caused the settlers some alarm and a great deal
of trouble and expense by stealing their cattle
and killing some men, but, after spending con-
siderable time and means, peace was finally re-
stored, and treaties were made which proved to 
be satisfactory for awhile. So the time pasaed
until Minnie was nearing her fifteenth birth-

[Column 2]
day, when they were surprised one day by the
arrival of her uncle Howard, Jesse's brother, 
from California. He had come, he said, to
take them to her father. Jesse, thinking he
could do better to have his family with him,
had sent his brother with means for their re-
moval, and full power to settle up his business
in Salt Lake. The partnership was dissolved
by giving the mill and all connected with it
to his partner and calculations made to start as
soon as the spring opened to "the land of gold"
Mary thought of no other course but to go, al-
though it was with some misgivings that she
began to make preparations. California was a 
rough place, filled with all kinds of people
whom gold had attached to its shores. Jesse
was fond of liquor, and before leaving the
states had shown a disposition to let the ap-
petite grow upon him. Many reports had come
during his absence, of his self-indulgence. 
Mary was grieved to hear such things of her
high-minded, intelligent husband, but, knowing
what slaves liquor makes of its votaries, she
feared it was too true. She had hoped that on
his return to the valley where very little could
be obtained, and no temptations were laid to 
ensnare him, he would get weaned from the
fatal indulgence. He did not mean to give
liquor an undue advantage: he thought a strong-
minded man might drink a little if he chose and 
when he chose, so long as he did not become in-
toxicated and it would do him no harm. He
was too proud to allow himself to become a 
drunkard, but, if sick or low-spirited a little
brandy was an excellent tonic, and Mary's kind
admonitions only angered him, that she had so
little confidence in his strength of mind and
self-respect.
	Next came thoughts of where her duty lay.
The Church did not approve of its members 
scattering to the gold fields: no community could
prosper or build up, especially in such a coun-
try as this, without standing firm and holding
a common bond of brotherhood. It was not
gold they wanted, but homes; labor, agriculture,
manufacturies, orchards, vineyards, education 
and refinement. Union was strength, and all 
these possibilities of the future lay within their
reach only through perseverance and united
efforts. Seek first the kingdom of God and
his righteousness and all else shall be added.
How could it be if they returned to Bablyon.
They had gathered out of her borders, poor,
needy, half-famished she had cast them forth
to make homes in the desert, or perish in the
wilderness. Should they after suffering so
many hardships, and enduring so much, give
it all up just as the means of comfort seemed
within their reach?  Their religion taught them 
to gather together and build Temples wherein
to perform the ordinances of baptism and do a 
work for the dead, whereby they might bring
about the redemption of Israel. Through the
ordinances of the Gospel and the teachings of
Christ; to prepare themselves for eternity,
through the Celestial Law as revealed to Jos-
eph Smith the Prophet; whereby they might
inherit thrones, principalities, and powers in the
kingdom of God. All these things with the
redemption of her father's household were be-
fore her. The children she had buried in those
long-past years, and whose dear presence she
had promise of once more beholding to claim
them for her own, in that bright land where
there is no more partings: an exaltation in the
kingdom of God and partake of His glory.
For these she had suffered partings, privations
and sorrow, cold, hunger and fatigue. Should
she turn back when the hardest of the journey
seemed over and the goal almost won? True
Jesse did not wish to give up all these things;
he still clung to his faith and did not intend to 
leave it; only to work for a few years where he
liked the climate and surroundings better.
Where he could make means easier, and keep
	s family more comfortable. He did not re-

[Column 3]
alize that influences were leading him each
year father away from the principles he pro-
fessed, nor taking his family away was the be-
ginning of the course that would take him from
the Church entirely; but others saw it and
warned Mary of the result of going away from
the body of the Church.
			To be continued.


SOMETHING TO DO.

	This title is rather suggestive of a lack of
employment and yet the world is full of work
of one sort or another. There is in the heart
of every man, woman or child a natural long-
ing for somthing to do, but the question which
presents itself is generally, what shall it be?
This causes delay and sometimes while deliber-
ating an evil influence is brought to bear and
the opportunity to do something useful is cast
aside. Thinking of employment to fill up the
intervals reminds me of a remark of Pres.
Young, who often said in illnstration of the
necessity of work, if you really have nothing to
do, pick up chips and when the pan is full,
turn them down and pick them up again.
It is true in every nation and among all classes
of people that,

"Satan finds some mischief still
	For idle hands to do."

	This is not only true of children of both sex-
es but alas! of men and women. When one is
constantly employed there is much less danger
of their falling into difficulties of any sort.
Children should have constant occupation
either work or play. They rest when asleep
but as soon as they wake they look about them
for something to give expression to their forces,
their vigor. As children are growing up it is
the custom in our day to keep them in the
schoolroom three fourths of the year, with little
play time morning and night; during these
early and late hours to employ themselves ac-
cording to their condition in life, for instance
the poor boy or girl must labor, the wealthier
does nothing; in nine cases out of ten perhaps,
it happens that the boy or girl who has to work
out of school hours gets on better than the
one who plays. One obvious reason is that the
boy who has no work to do and is always
playing, very often gets into bad company
among a class of children who have never had
any training, whose lives are a burden to their
parents and who have come into the world
unwelcomed;—parents who totally neglect their
imperative duties to train up their children in the
fear of God, neglect their moral even, in fact they
are left to themselves, without any restraint
or safeguard. Such children are a nuisance in
any neighborhood. Once there was no such
thing to be found here, but as the city increases
in population and streets become crowded with
tenement houses, where poor people huddle into
small rooms in back alleys, this state of things
has developed itself, and it leads one to think
upon the subject of occupation. If such par-
ents would see that their childran have some-
thing to do, they would have less inconvenience
themselves; for left as they are to roam about
the streets, to do whatever Satan finds for their
idle hands and busy brain, they often get into
diffi culty which involves the parents, however
unwilling they may be to assume the responsi-
bility of the guardianship and protection of
their offspring. Something to do then is the
antidote for evil. There is an old saying "that
an ounce of prevention is better than a pound
of cure," and it is emphatically true in this case
Give people something to do and it prevents
melancholy and headache and produces cheer-
fulness and contentment ordinarily. Give
children something to do, if you would not have
them grow up idle, dishonest and worthless, a
burden to themselves and a nuisance in so-
ciety.
							MORE ANON.


156	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	—	MARCH 15, 1881.


[Column 1]
MORMONISM WILL LIVE.

	We have often heard it said, the best way to
kill a disagreeable thing is to let it alone, and it
will die a natural death. Evidently this is not
the idea generally entertained in regard to Mor-
monism. It seems to be as much an inexhausti-
ble subject to those who oppose it, as it is to the
Elders who proclaim its principles. Mormonism
is dished up in various forms for Congress and
the Cabinet, and to send about to foreign na-
tions, as well as for Territorial Legislatures and
the daily papers. Presidents and Governors
take a turn at it, and denounce the Mormons in
their speeches to the people. It not only both-
ers political leaders and demagogues, but Chris-
tion ministers, in their great anxiety to suppress
it, are exerting every nerve and bringing their
tremendous influence to bear, to show it up in its
most terrible aspect. And women, too, are tak-
ing extra pains, sparing neither time, money
nor talents to portray its hideousness.
	In the midst of all this controversy on the
Mormon question, the tide of empire still
marches onward, and the Stakes of Zion are
strengthened and her borders lengthened, and
the number of disciples to the "new faith" con-
stantly increases. There is something in Mor-
monism, so called, that is not apparent to the
casual observer; it has seemed an easy matter to
uproot this "obnoxious plant," but many power-
ful efforts have again and again been made, yet
all have signally failed. Men of enterprise, men
of nerve, have undertaken to battle with it, and
men of superior worldly intelligence have sought
to solve the Mormon problem, to read this enig-
matical riddle in vain. The Mormon people,
persecuted, driven and plundered, still have
prospered, made new homes, sent out their mis-
sionaries, built up the waste places and made the
desert blossom as the rose. Full of faith in God
and integrity to the principles He has revealed
in this dispensation, and regardless of the oppro-
brium heaped upon them by their enemies, they
pursue the even tenor of their way, and with
the indomitable perseverance of the Pilgrim Fa-
thers, who ventured all for the sake of worship-
ping God according to the dictates of their own
consciences, they have braved the perils of the
wilderness with wives and children, taking, as
it were, their lives in their hands. But this is
not enough. Their enemies pursue them, they
would despoil them of all the rights of citizen-
ship and place their lives in jeopardy. For
what? For obeying the law of the Lord as re-
vealed through his prophet. Blind as the people
who lived before the flood, they cry delusion,
and will not be warned of danger. They see
not the signs of the times In the calamities that
are following each other in quick succession.
But the Lord is working among the nations, and
in his own way and time bringing to pass his

[Column 2]
purposes. The few who are willing to make a
covenant by sacrifice, are looked upon as the
Saints of God were in former days, outcasts and
deluded; but they have that within which pass-
eth understanding, and though the world revile
and persecute them, still true to the principles
they have espoused and the covenants they have
made, they will unflinchingly maintain their in-
tegrity to the law of the Lord, though "the
heathen rage and the people imagine a vain
thing." Not only is this true of men bearing
the holy priesthood, but of women also, fellow-
helpers, who hold their faith as sacred as the un-
cient women of Scripture, of whom the Chris-
tian world is so justly proud. The world that
condemns Mormon women in the present age
for accepting the conditions of the Abrahamic
covenant, viz., patriarchal marriage, but hold up
to view, as examples worthy of imitation the
women of olden time, and immortalize their
memory in poetry and art. Sara, Ruth, Rebecca
and others, who obeyed the voice of the Lord
and made covenant by sacrifice. The women
of the new dispensation are prepared to make
similar sacrifices; indeed, they have already
broken in pieces their earthly idols and accepted
the new and everlasting covenant. The lives of
many are as grand and as noble as those of the
holy women of old. They have borne the cross,
and who shall say they will not win an immor-
tal crown, the blessing of endless lives. Such
women are earnest and staunch supporters of
the same "faith that was once delivered to the
Saints." There is in the Gospel men term Mor-
monism an ever-enduring germ, that cannot be
uprooted by the blasts of adversity, or destroyed
by the raging fire of persecution. Those who
have not drank at the same living fountain com-
prehend it not.
	Presidents, governors and rulers may make
and enforce stringent laws and measures bear-
ing upon the Mormon question, but they cannot
destroy the immortal germ of truth which gives
assurance to the Latter-day Saint that the Lord
has commenced to establish his kingdom, nor
can they compass the Almighty in his purposes,
and every weapon formed against Zion will fall
powerless to the ground; and while the tide of
humanity rolls on, this work will prosper, until
the kingdoms of this world become the kingdoms
of the Lord and his Christ, and He whose right
it is shall reign forevermore.


HOME AFFAIRS.
 MRS. Ellen C. S. Clawson wishes the Secreta-
ries of all the Primary Associations in the county
to send in reports immediately for the coming
Conference.

 THE Rev. Alessandro Gavazzi, the famous
Italian evangelist, and associate of Garibaldi, ar-
rived in this city Sunday just before noon. He
held two meetings to crowded houses. His au-
dience was electrified by his eloquence, though
the Good Father is now seventy-two years of 
age.

 THE Stake Conference of Relief  Societies, Y.
L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations of Salt Lake
Co., will be held in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms on Friday and Saturday, March 25 and
26. It is earnestly requested by the presiding
sisters of these orgaizations that there be a full
attendance of the officers from each respective
brauch as far as practicable, and of all who are
interested in these association.
	CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.- Dr. Romania B.
Pratt will commence her fourth class in Mid-
wifery April 11, 1881. The increasing demand
that there is from all the settlements in the Ter-
ritory for qualified midwives, should stimulate
the sisters to more earnest efforts in this direc-
tion. The success that has attended Dr. Pratt's
former classes is a sufficient guarantee that no
exertion will be spared on her part to make the
lectures eminently instructive and practical.
We hope many will avail themselves of this op-
portunity.

 AN entertainment was given in the Social Hall
for the benefit of the 18th, Ward Sunday School
Wednes. Eve. It consisted of a laughable farce
entitled "My Wife's Bonnet," by some of the
Home Dramatic Club and the comic operatta
"A Capital Joke," arranged for four voices.
The operatta is something new and original suf-
ficiently interesting to excite the audience a
trifel and sort enough not to be tedious. The
parts were well rendered and both pieces evince,
some ability an the part of the young people.
	The selections were good. We commend
them for not undertaking anything heavier.
	Leaves From My Journal: This is the sugges-
tive title of the third book of the Faith Promot-
ing Series, which are being brought out at the
Juvenile Instructor Office. The work is by Pres.
Wilford Woodruff and is specially adapted to
young Elders, missionaries; and yet calculated
to inspire and strengthen the faith of all. The
Author begins with the "blue laws of Counetti-
cutt," his native state, from that goes on to see
ing Joseph Smith, visiting Kirtland &c., &c. It
s a most interesting book all the way through
and contains many powerful evidnces of the
healing of the sick: savors greatly of the Apostle
himself, rapidly taking you over the ground he
has trod and ever keeping up the same lively in-
terest.
	For Sale at the Juvenile Instructor Office.
Price 25 cts.
	It is earnestly requested that the secretaries
of the Y. L; M. I. A., of Salt Lake Stake, send
in their semiannual reports immediately, that the
Stake Secr'y. may prepare them for the Ladies
Conference to be held March 18th anl 19th. The
following information is required: no. of mem-
bers, no. of meetings held, manner of conducting
meeting. If a paper is issued. If a library is
owned by the association. Amount of home
reading and Financial reports.
				Mary A. Freeze, Pres.
				Augulta J. Crocheron, Sec'y.


ENJOYABLE AFFAIR.

	A large number of ladies and gentlemen,
friends and relatives of Mrs. Phebe Woodruff,
met at her residence March 8, at 5 P. M., to do
honor to the veteran lady, and celebrate the an-
niversary of her 74th birthday. The party had
been arranged by her daughters while the
mother was away, through their strategy, at the
Woodruff Farm a short distance from the city.
On her return per programme, she was ushered
into her own parlor, which was filled with her
most intimate friends, when her daughter, Mrs.
Phebe W. Snow came to her relief by making a
very pretty little speech, suitable to the occasion,
expressing the congratulations of her children
and friends. There were present, Pres. John
Taylor, Coun. D. H. Wells, Bishop Edward
Hunter, Bishop L. W. Hardy, Elder George
Goddard, Hon. C. W. Penrose, Elder George
Reynolds, Bishop Thomas Taylor, with their
wives, and many other brethren and sisters,
about seventy in all.
	After all the expected guests had arrived, Sis-
ter Woodruff was presented with the portraits of
three of her daughters, and some other articles
of value, and an elegant easy chair; the presenta
tion was made by her grandson, Leslie Snow,
in a pleasing little address suited to the occasion.


A sumptuous supper followed, the blessing at
the tables beign prounced by the veteran Bishop,
Edward Hunter. After supper speeches were
made and many good wishes and congratulations
tendered Sister Woodruff by those present.
Bishop Hnnter was the first speaker, then fol-
lowed Bishop Hardy, Sister Presendia L. Kim-
ball, Elder George Goddard, Elder George Rey-
nolds and Sister M. I. Horne. Mrs. E. B.
Wells read a poem, "The Pioneer Mothers," in-
scribed to Sister Woodruff, composed by Emily
Hill Woodmansee. Mrs. E. B. Ferguson sang
"Nearer my God to Thee," Brothers Goddard
and Marks joining in the chorus. Coun. D. H.
Wells, Pres. John Taylor, Hon. C. W. Penrose,
Sister S. M. Kimball and Bishop Thomas Tay-
lor all expressed themselves in a few words and
happy congratulations, good wishes, etc. Some
hymns were sung during the evening, and the
hymn, "We thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet,"
was joined in by the whole company, and the
party closed with prayer by Brother Edward
Stevenson.
	The affair was really an enjoyable one, the
only drawback being the absence of Bro. Wood-
ruff. We add our cordial congratulations, and
wish Sister Woodruff many years of future use-
fulness and prosperity, and a continual increase
of wisdom and knowledge concerning the prin-
ciples of eternal life.			E. B. W.


﻿	WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SOCIAL GATHERING.
	On Monday, Feb. 28, a large number of ladies
and gentlemeu, friends of Mrs. Emmeline B.
Wells, met at her residence in the 13th Ward, to
celebrate the anniversary of her birthday (al-
though she was born on the 29th). The party,
which was a complete surprise to Sister Wells,
included President John Taylor, Apostle F. D.
Richards, Coun. D. H. Wells, Hon. C. W. Pen-
rose, Hon. Wm. Jennings, Elder George Rey-
nolds, and wives, with from forty to fifty more,
who all united in this expression of their esteem
and respect for her.
	After the company had all assembled, Sister
Wells was the recipient of a series of surprises,
which she endured with considerable fortitude.
In the first place, her daughters presented her
with an elegant gold chain, and this was followed
by the reading of a poem, a birthday greeting
from Mrs. Augusta Joyce Crocheron. Dr. Ellen
B. Ferguson then, in the name of those present,
and others who were unavoidably absent, pre-
sented Sister Wells with a handsome gold watch,
as a token of appreciation of her valuable ser-
vices to the women of Zion in all their organiza-
tions in the Church, as the unflinching advocate
of their social, political and religious freedom,
and a s a testimonial of their personal regard
and esteem. Mrs. Wells was quite overcome by
this unexpected, though not undeserved, honor,
but through the timely assistance and tact of
Mrs. E. Howard, was spared the necessity of a
lengthened reply. An elegant repast was then
served, to which all the guests did justice, and
various toasts were drank to the health and
prosperity of Mrs. Wells and her family.
	After supper a poem, written for Mrs. Wells
and entitled "Appreciation," by Mrs. Emily
Hill Woodmansee, was read. A kind and com-
plimentary speech from Pres. John Taylor,
written address by Dr. R. B. Pratt, and social
conversation occupied the time until a late hour,
when the company dispersed, feeling that they
had enjoyed a delightful season of social and
friendly intercourse, and wishing Sister Wells
many happy returns of the day, with every
spiritual and temporal blessing to crown her fu-
ture years.
					E. B. FERGUSON.


[Column 1]
﻿TRIP TO KANAB.

	Bishop Johnson, sent a team, with Brother
Herbert Riggs as teamster, and we, Sisters Zina,
Minerva and your correspondent, left St. George
about noon on the 7th of February, and returned
on the 27th, between three and four P. M.
	Going and returning we camped out three
nights. On our outward trip we camped at the
foot of "Hurricane Hill," on our return, on its
summit. To sit around camp fires, to eat our
suppers by their light, and to breakfast in their
warmth, constituted very interesting reminis-
cences of our bygone experience, when, expelled
from our homes and the land of our birth, we
fathomed the deep untrodden wilds of the inte-
rior; going we knew not where, in search of the
religious liberty guaranteed by our sacred Con-
stitution and wrested from us by its Executives!
But what a contrast! Then we were fugitives,
with a desert wilderness before us—now, as
mothers in Israel, on our way to happy homes of
faithful Saints of God, and the congregations of
noble mothers and the pure and lovely daugh-
ters of Zion.
	We arrived at Bishop W.D. Johnson’s, Kanab
on the 10th. The next evening we were in-
vited to attend a "Ward Social," (to which all
the Ward was invited,) where, after the opening
services of singing and prayer, we learned, to
our great surprise, that the party, consisting of
upwards of three hundred, was in honor of our-
selves, and, of course, our speeches were on the
programme.
	Now that you have so recently endured a sur-
prise, you know how to sympathize with us.
However, our great, overwhelming surprise ter-
minated very satisfactorily—the "Social" was a
success, perfect union prevailed, we had a men-
tal, spiritual and temporal feast, and all were
happy.
	The next day we organized a Ward and Stake
Primary Associations. The following day met
with the Relief Society at five P. M., and or-
ganized a Stake Silk Association. On the 15th
went to Long Valley; met with the R. S., also
with the children and organized them. From
there to Orderville, the Bishop of Orderville
having sent a team for us, where we organized
three Primary Associations; also one in Glendale,
and there also met with the Relief Society. We
stayed one night in Glendale, and returned to
Orderville and met with the young gentlemen
and ladies; and in Orderville spent the second
Sunday after leaving St. George.
	There our home was with Coun. Howard
Spencer and family, although we visited several
of our old acquaintances and some new ones in
their places of residence; was everywhere re-
ceived with a hearty welcome, and were treated
with all possible kindness. The longer I stayed
in Orderville the more home feeling I realized.
The people seem united and happy; those that
are able are indomitable workers—the invalids
and aged sharing liberally the fruits of their toil.
As a community they live within their income,
the men raising the supplies for their tables, and,
minus of all machinery, the women manufac-
ture the most of their clothing. All we saw
were dressed plain and well. We shall long re-
member with pleasure and gratitude our visit
with the good people of Orderville.
	From Kanab to Long Valley and its three set-
tlements we had the pleasure of the company of
Bishop Johnson, his wife and uncle, and Sister
Bunting, and should have returned with them,
had not the people of Orderville proposed send-
ing us by team to Kanab, and thence to John-
son, if we would stop with them till Monday—
the Bishop being under the necessity of return-
ing on Friday. Accordingly, on the 21st, Brother
Israel Hoyt took us to Kanab, and next to John-

[Column 2]
son, where we met the Bishop and party. Met
with the Relief Society. Stopped overnight;
morning organized the children and returned to
Kanab, where we were much at home.with the
Bishop and family.
	If any one dare say that women cannot be
happy in plural marriage, let him or her visit
Bishop W. D. Johnson’s family; and as a live
Bishop he cannot be excelled, looking after the
interest of all from the oldest down to the little
ones; he is in their midst, taking the wayward
by the hand and kindly pointing out their reck-
lessness and guiding them to the path of safety
and honor; meeting with and taking part in the
recreations of all ages, from the white-haired
veteran down to the little curly-headed prattler
occbpying the lowest seat in the baby circle;
These little ones all feel that the Bishop is their
friend and none seem afraid to approach him. In
noticing this, I could not help contrasting his
course, and the effect everywhere apparent, with
those Bishops who never have visited the Pri-
mary meetings in their wards.
	In Kanab, the three settlements in Long Val-
ley and in Johnson, we noticed with admiration
that the Word of Wisdom, so far as tea, coffee
and tobacco are concerned, is better observed
than in most places elsewhere that we have vis-
ited. Brothers Charles Oliphant and Heber
Clayton accompanied us from Kanab to this
place.
	I have some work yet to do in the Temple,
and, unless something special shall oocur, shall
remain here until after the St. George Stake
Conference, which commences two weeks from
yesterday. It is expected that four of the Apos-
tles will be present. Soon after that we expect
an opportunity of getting to the R. R. by private
conveyance—much preferable to stage.
								E. R. S. S.
	March 6,1881.


SURPRISE.
	On Friday, Feb. 25, we had a surprise party,
by the united feeling of the sisters, in respect to
Margaret Keller, President of the Relief Society,
on her birthday. She was presented with a
beautiful shawl; the presentation was made by
Counselor Christine Jenson, as a token of es-
teem from the sisters, showing their thanks for
her kind and motherly instruction. The sisters
all gathered at Peter F. Petersen's residence; our
dear and beloved Bishop, Peter C. Jenson, was
present on the occasion, with his Counselors, Lars
Anderson and Peter Jensen. After partaking
of a bounteous repast, our brethren gave us
much kind and fatherly instruction; exhorted
the mothers to bring up their children in a God-
fearing way, so when they were old they would
not depart from it. Pres. Margaret Keller ex-
pressed her gratitude for the kind feeling shown
by the sisters toward her.
				JULIANE CHISTIANSEN.


NOTICE.
 On April 10th, 1881, at her office, Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp will open a class for the special instruction
of  women  in  the  art  of  Obstetrics.  For  this
class books  must be  obtained from  the  East, so
that those who purpose joining should commu-
nicate with Dr. Shipp at once.
Also, by request, a course of study on the care
of infancy and childhood, adapted  to the under-
standing  of  every wife  and  mother.  This  in-
struction will  be  given  in the  form  of popular
lectures, divested of technicalities.
Prevention of disease, the mother's province.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.
DIED:  At St. Johns  Jan.  16th, 1881, of  pleura
pneumonia, Sister  Mary  Ann Kent in the 61st
year of her age. Deceased was born at Grimstead
Wiltshire England in  the  year 1819. She was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day  Saints in  1851. Emigrated to Utah Co.
in 1860.  Settled in  Rockport,  Weber Co. in 1861.
She removed to Bear  Lake valley in the early
settlement of that place, bore all the harships
of frontier life without a  murmer. During the
last ten  years  of  her  life, she  has lived at St.
Johns near Malad City. At the  organization of
the Relief Society she was called to preside fill-
ing that position until her death, winning the love
and confidence of all the  members;  her  life has
been  filled with deeds  of charity and kindness.
ever ready to minister to the poor and needy,
kind to every one,  none knew  her  but to love
and esteem her; death though  very  sudden was
painless, she passed away like one dropping into
a gentle slumber. Her funeral was the large stone
ever seen in St.  John's there were forty sleighs
well filled followed the remains to their last rest-
ing place, there to remain untill the resurrection
of the just. She leaves a husband two sons and
one daughter and a large circle of friends to mourn 
her loss.  
							COM. 

	DIED: in Manti Feb.  14,  of  old  age, Sister
Lucy Atwood. SHe was  borne Oct. 18 1796, in
the State of New Hampsnire,moved to Connecti-
cut  when  18  years of age and  married Reuben
Atwood. Was the  mother  of  five  children, of
whom three sons and one daughter are  still  liv-
ing.  She first heard the gospel preached by Elder
Phineas  Richards  and  embraced  the same
in 1840.  The  year  following  emigrated to
Nauvoo and remained there during  the exodus.
Her eldest sons were engaged in defending the
Saints, their homes, the widows and orphans who
were at last mercilessly  driven  across the  river-
Although over 83  years  of  age  her faculties
were good and she delighted to tell  some of her
experience in Mormonism  which was  quite  in-
teresting. One circumstance I will relate as ac-
curatety as I can remember.
"Previous to embracing the Gospel her  eldest
daughter had been very sick and confined to her
bed for many months, and  the doctors had  pro-
nounced her case as hopeless--when, the  Latter-
day  Saints  were called  upon  to  administer to
her, she  immediately  arose  from  her  bed  and
the next day walked quite a distance to meeting,
to the astonishment of all who  witnessed it. She
realized the promise made to her that she should
gather with the  saints  and  was  buried at Nau-
voo."
Sister Atwood  passed away  peacefully under
the affectionate care of  her  daughter,  Rebecca
wife of Pres. J. Wareham,  at his  residence, and
who assisted in soothing her  in  her  last  days.
She was an  estimable old  lady and  her memory
will be cherished by all who knew her even down
to her  great grand children.
Deseret News Please Copy.
M. A. H.


B. S. REPORTS.

PARADISE.

	As a Relief Society we are striving to live in
accordance with the spirit of the times, and to do
our part in the great work that is laid out for
the handmaidens of the Most High, the sisters
have been busy in making quilts, socks and mitts,
for the Temple; as there are but few in our set-
tlement who are not able to keep themselves;
there is no sickness of any moment for which
we feel very thankful. Our monthly meetings
are well attended, a good Spirit prevails. The
sisters give wise and good counsel and encour-


age mothers to have a watchful care over their
little ones, and strive above all to instil into
their tender hearts principles of truth and virtue.
Ever praying for the wellfare of Zion.
							EMMA SHAW.
	Feb. 26, 1881.

HEBER CITY.

	Minutes of Relief Societies of Wasatch Stake
held in the Heber Hall,Feb. 11th 1881. Present
on the stand, Pres. E. Brown, Presidents of the
several Relief Societies, and Y. L. M. I. A., and
Primaries. Meeting called to order by Pres. E
Brown. Singing. Prayer by Bishop Rasbond.
Minutes of last Conference read and approved.
reports read, verbal reports by the Presidents of
Relief Societies, Y. L. M. I. A., and Primary
Association all given in a very pleasing and sat
isfactory manner. Sister Brown made some
very encouraging remarks. Conference ad-
journed till half past 1, o'clock.
	Afternoon session: Singing "How Firm a Foun-
dation," prayer by Sister Cluff. Reports not giv-
en in the forenoon were brought forward. Some
very appropriate remarks were made by the
ladies calculated to encourage and inspire the
hearts of the sisters to go on in the good work
in which we are engaged. Bishop Foreman,
Pres. Hatch, Coun. Giles and others of the
brethren spoke a short time.
	Pres. Brown made a few closing remarks en-
dorsing all the counsel that had been given.
Conference adjourned until May 13th, 1881.
				MARY BRONSON, Stake Sec'y.

	On Oct. 12 1880, Sister E. R. Snow resigned as
President of the 18th Ward Relief Society: owing
to the many duties devolving upon her, she felt
that she could not attend to this duty also and
do justice to it.
	She therefore nominated Sister Ellen Barton
as her successor, who was appointed by unani-
mous vote of the meeting, and set apart by the
Bishop of the Ward, at Fast-meeting Nov. 4,
1880.
	Sister Barton selected for her first Counselor
Sister Louisa Horne and second Counselor Sister
Hannah Wright who were both set apart by
the Bishop's Counselors, March 3, 1881.
					MARY. SCHETTLER, Sec'y.


PBIMARY CONFERENCE.
	Primary Conference convened at the B. Y.
Academy, Provo, March 5, 1881, at 10 A. M.,
President Zina Y. Williams presiding. Meeting
opened by singing, "Praise ye the Lord," &c.
Prayer by Sister H. A. Beebe. Singing. Min-
utes of previous meeting read and approved.
The Secretary then read the statistical and finan-
cial reports of the Associations, showing a thriv-
ing condition of each ward, and the rapid ad-
vancement made since the receipt of the pre-
vious reports. The subject of the coming jubi-
lee being broached by the President, all present
expressed their willingness to assist in the exer-
cises, and use every effort to make the affair a
success. Hymns were seclected and valuable
suggestions offered. It was decided by the Presi-
dents that the Secretary of each ward should
copy the names of her Association, together
with the time of its organization, and forward
them to the Stake Secretary, to be placed in the
Jubilee Box.
	Some acted upon the decision at once. After
the outline of a programme had been suggested,
brief but explicit remarks were made by the
Presidents, all speaking in eulogistic terms of
their respective Associations, and each claiming
the ascendency in regard to the meritorious con-
duct of the children. Their enthusiasm was
great, indicating plainly how devotedly they are
attached to the little ones placed in their care.
After short and appropriate speeches by many
of the visitors, Conference adjourned until the
11th of June, 1881.
			NETTIE SOUTHWORTH, Sec'y.


SARAH  CARTER.
WHO  WAS  IN  A  TRANCE SEVEN YEARS.
	     BY HANNAH  T. KING
		  CONCLUDED
 Again I  find  I  have  anticipated circum-
tsances, but my time is precious, and I have to
write  hastily, and  my memory, though  almost
perfect, may  err a  little  as  to  dates, when  it
runs back over more  than  thirty  years, and
since  when  I  have  lived a new life in a new
world;  let  this  be  a  standing apology when I
may mix up things a little!
	But now I gather up the dropped threads of
this  really  wonderful  recital, of  which  every
word is truth, but the half is not told.  I must
now introduce  Betsy  Carter  upon  the  tapis;
you  will  remember  she  is the sister of Sarah.
Her  mother had given  her  all  the  education
she  could  afford and that could be procured at
a  village school.  She was the  rustic  belle of
that  village;  her  complexion  was  a  blending
truly of the rose and the  lily;  her  fair  fore-
head and  rich, dark hair, with  eyes matching,
made her a subject for a painter's beauty.  But
her life was to be a prisoner almost in the bed-
room of her sister.  She had become a beauti-
ful needle-woman–embroidery, working  on
nett,  and  fancy  work  of  all  description,  be-
came  her  sole  occupation,  the  county  ladies
finding her full employment;  Lady  Godolphin
being  her  first  patroness  and  devoted  friend.
She also became the watchful attendant of her
sister, who, though  animation  and  recognition
had  returned, was still, as it were, in a state  of
infancy.  In her room was  her work-table and
chair placed  by  the  window,  and  there  for
years might that young fair face be seen, as the
indefatigable work woman and the watchful at-
tendant of her sister, who  still lay listless  and
inert, but taking now a little  sustenance, as an
infant might do, conversing  in  monosyllables
with  her  mother  and  sister  and  her  friend,
Lady G., who was still a constant visitor to the
family.  This  state  of  things  passed  on  for
some years, and there, day by day and year by
year  sat  the  young and beautiful sister, work-
ing and watching in  angel guise  in  that room,
made remarkable by the events that had taken
place  in  it.  At  last it was  said that  Betsy's
health  was  failing, and  well  it  might, for she
had  no  recreation  beyond  a short  walk now
and then, though her window was  always open
when weather permitted, and the prospect from
it was  bright and airy;  but  she  had  been  for
years  literally a prisoner, and  her  appearance
and that brilliant color indicated delicacy.  For
a  long  time  she waived  off all inquiries as to
her health, but  at  last  she had  to give up her
sedentary  employment.  Dr. Ficklin  ordered
her to walk or  ride  out  much in the open air;
friends fondly came to the rescue, but the fiat
had gone forth- that beautiful, devoted, endur-
ing girl was to be transplanted to the Paradise
of her  Father!  Yes,  surely  her  place  would
be within his presence, if  devoted love, endur-
ing  privation from all  that  youth  so  craves,
purity  of thought  and  action,  love  and  obe-
dience to her mother, and a species  of  worship
to  her  sister, and  through  all working to sus-
tain herself- surely, surely, if  we  are  to  be
judged  by  our "works," her place was a bright
and glorious one!  But I aniticipate. She de-
clined  gradually;  work  was  laid  aside.  The
sisters, on on the bed and the other very often
on the sofa close by, still associated together in
their own peculiar calm  and  quiet way- that
way, which  even  on earth had  heaven  in  it.
At last  she  kept  her  own  room;  and  indeed
she was dying.  Sarah  had  to  be  apprized  of
the  dire fact- but how  would  it  affect  her?
Surely it would at  once  kill  her;  so  reasoned
the poor mother.  But at last  she told her, in
her  own  way, in  words  none  ever  knew, for
they were  alone when  the  cruel truth  was told
her-  How long  had  she to live?  Only a few
hours  at  most.  "Mother, I  must  see  her, we
must  meet;  how  can  it  be  arranged?" She
was more fully aroused now than she had ever
been before. It was arranged; the sofa was
drawn close to the bed, and the dying girl car-
ried by many gentle  hands and laid  upon it.
They at  once  clasped  hands, they  looked the


[Column 1]
love they had neither of them power to enun-
ciate; but they needed no language, their eyes
conveyed all that was necessary. Sarah was
aroused, to a pitch that was marvelous to those
who beheld it, and she never again sunk into
the inertia that her trance had heretofore
thrown around her. The sisters remained be-
side each other enjoying their own mute lan-
guage, till Betsy's eyes closed and she sank
to sleep, sweet and gentle as a weary infant.
The distress of Sarah was dreadful, but she 
could not give directions, express her wishes,
and it seemed the two sisters had become amal-
gamated in one.
	And the poor, heart-stricken mother! even
after all these years my tears fall as I think of
what she must have suffered and endured.
Talk of martyrs! there are thousands that are,
not burnt at stakes, but they pass through
fiery ordeals quite as sharp, quite as bitter, but
they seem to be made of such enduring mate-
rial, that there is an immortality in their composi-
tion, even though mixed with the “earth
earthy.” Such was certainly Mrs. Carter in
her loneliness , in her-strong individuality; she
was still a noble “Spartan mother.” She has
received her reward in heaven ere this, and I
know it must be a rich; a noble one.
	But I must return to Sarah. After this
heavy affliction she gradually returned to ra-
tional life; though always reclining in her bed;
she became conversational and communicative,
as I have portrayed her in my last section.
	It was, at this time that I again commenced
to visit her, and she recounted to me much of
what I have now written, and told me that her
long trance seemed to her only like a night’s 
rest; but all about her seemed so superior, so
etherealized aud spiritual, and still so “one of
us,” that what I am going to say may be
thought a fanciful idea. It often passed
through my mind had her spirit associated
with beings of a superior order, who had
watched over her in that long sleep, that had
fed her mind with heavenly knowledge, and
language too, and had given her an under-
standing and an appreciation of God and
heavenly things, and of his dealings with the
human family in general and of herself in
particular? Her perfect idea of that "better
land," and a strong yearning to enter it, yet de-
sirous to wait his appointed time; her calm,
superior, dignified bearing, where had she ac-
quired all this? Where?  Had she been in
school? Who shall say? She was sustained
bodily, why not spiritually? But like when
we dream beautiful dreams and awake from 
them, they pass away with the awaking, yet
they leave their influence upon us, perhaps for
days, perhaps never to be entirely erased. Who
does not know this? Then perhaps my reflec-
tions upon Sarah Carter’s spiritual education
may-not be so fallacious as at first view it may
appear to be; certain it is that she was visited
by the noble and the educated with a delighted
charm.  Dr. Ficklin would say on rising to 
leave her, "Sarah, whenever I visit you I go 
away a better man."  He had been an army
surgeon, had seen much of all sorts of life in 
its varied phases, was a highly educated man,
a polished gentleman, passing in the highest 
society of the county, yet would he often
come, and take that single chair by that hum- 
ble bedside, sit an hour, and rise up declaring
he was a wiser and a better man than when he
came. Who gave her this heavenly magnet-
ism? Who was her tutor? Where did she get 
it? Who shall say? All we know she had it.
	I will give one more example. The eldest
son of Sir Charles and Lady Wale was a fine,
handsome young man, and his person was
merely the index of his character. He was
very high in the University of Cambridge, and
his parents had educated him to enter the
church as that is of course the vehicle of high
honors and promotion to the highest. But as 

[Column 2]
time drew on for him to “take orders,” he
shrank with his whole soul from fulfilling the
desires of his parents. He worshipped God
with the devotion of a warm and ardent soul,
and it was this very worship. that made him,
feel he was unfit for holy orders, and he could
not dissemble before God, and take that upon
himself which he felt was not his vocation.
And then the cruel disappointment he was go-
ing to bring his parents under made him 
wretched. In this state of mind he more fre-
quently visited Sarah. He would open his
whole soul to her; he would weep at the disap-
pointment of his parents, but with all his sor-
row he felt he could not mock his God.
	Here was another seeking to pour out his
soul, and if possible to derive consolation from
an afflicted Saint. He passed through his or-
deals, but he did not enter the church. He
went abroad making his own pathway as he
went, and died in early manhood.
	One day when I visited her she told me she
was rather troubled, because her mother would
not consent to one of her desires; and she then
went on to tell me what it was. She said: "I
have been, as you know, so singularly affected,
that the doctors have not been able to come to
any decision on my case, and I have talked
with Dr. Ficklin about it, and told him posi-
tively that after death I bequeathed my body
into his hands for his special study and obser-
vation; he has so often told me that my brain
is so affected that nothing but my happy state
of mind preserves my sanity; and the heart is
also so affected that were he to talk to some of
his patients as freely as he does to me upon the
subject, they would probably drop dead at his
feet. But I love to hear him talk, which he
does freely, and if the post mortem examina-
tion of my body can benefit any other human
being, it will certainly add to my happiness.
My mother thinks every good of Dr. F., but
she shrinks from giving her consent so far; I
shall try my rhetoric upon her for a time, and
if she remains obstinate, I must give carte
blanche to him to whom I commit the trust.”
	Soon after this I fell into a very debilitated
state of health, and it was thought advisable
that I should discontinue my visits to the dear
invalid. We exchanged letters, and she sent
me a lock of her hair.
	Time passed. Her guardian angel in human
guise, Lady Godolphin, was called, from this
stage of action. Blessed woman! Tears fell
from the eyes of the poor and the afflicted; for
she was ever their ready friend. Though sur-
rounded by the pomp and luxury of a high
station; she was meek and poor in spirit. How
often I think of her and see her beautiful form
in my mind’s eye, her low, soft voice, and her
sweet angelic spirit, for “on earth she was all
but divine!”
	Time passed on, and I left England. Sarah
Carter, dear girl! did new friends supply the
place of old ones? I hope so. She still lived
years after I left; but all now have passed away
to “that bourne from whence no traveler re-
turns.” No tear of sorrow need be shed for
her; at no stage of her life was she an object
of distress, no, but one of wonder, of awe, and
at last of imitation and rich appreciation.

"Bright be the place of thy soul,
	No lovelier spirit than thine
E'er burst from its mortal control,
	In the realms of the blessed to shine."
[BYRON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 159


R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	The semi-monthly General Retrenchment
Meeting in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Feb. 12, 1881, was a very interest-
ing one, Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding, and of
her Counselors there were present Mrs. B. W.


Smith, Mrs. Phebe Woodruff, Mrs. S. M. Kim-
ball and Mrs. E. Howard. Opened by singing
"Let Zion in her beauty rise." Prayer by
Mrs. E. Howard. Singing, "O my Father."
Minutes of former meeting were read and ac-
cepted, also minutes of the Primary Associa-
tions of the 11th, 9th and 3d Wards of this
city. Mrs. Horne made some remarks in re-
gard to the sisters administering to the sick,
and exhorted them to seek wisdom of God and
be cautious in all they did; gave good instruc-
tion, which, if put in practise, would preserve
the sisters from any indiscretion.
	Mrs. E. S. Clawson gave a synopsis of her
visit to the East, and told many interesting in-
cidents connected with her trip: referred to
her visit to her early home, and the recollec-
tions it brought so vividly to mind. Spoke of
her visit to Nauvoo and many other places.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells made a few remarks upon
the condition of the young people, the facili-
ties now enjoyed for mental and spiritual cul-
ture, and the indifference evinced by many to
the manifold blessings in which their lives
were so abundantly rich. Earnestly exhorted
mothers to urge their daughters to seek knowl-
edge and understanding from good books, and
be cautious in regard to their associations; dis-
card frivolity and nonsense, and prepare them-
selves for the mighty work which would be ex-
pected of them as daughters of Zion.
	Mrs. M. A. Wilcox made some excellent re-
marks, in a humble and childlike manner.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor continued the subject of
improvement, and said that decorum was one
of the things in which our young ladies should
be instructed. It seemed that many who came
here for the Gospel's sake lost their interest in
the work for which they had left home and
friends, and were carried away with outside in-
fluence; through this their minds became dark-
ened. If we could influence the young ladies
to attend their meetings, they would be guided
in a proper channel and fed with spiritual food,
and this would give them strength to endure
the trials they would meet from day to day.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp spoke upon the subject
of equality and the feeling which she believed
should exist towards those who are employed
as help in families; had sometimes felt it would
be a good idea if there were teachers in the
Young. Ladies' Associations, as there was in
the Relief Society.
	Mrs. Horne took up the same subject, ex-
pressing her views in regard to the employer
and the employed.
	Mrs. E. Howard spoke upon faith in the
healing power, and related an incident of the
manifestation of the power of God in a very
simple manner. She continued the subject of
help; said the rich were as much dependent
upon the poor as the poor were upon the rich.
It is our mission to seek to do good to all
people.
	Sung, Doxology. Prayer by Mrs. B. W.
Smith.


GROWTH AND PROGRESS OF THE
HUMAN MIND.

	The mighty oak, which seems in itself a for-
est, attained this wonderful size by many years
of steady growth. From the tiny acorn,hidden
in the bosom of tne earth, shoots are sent up,
bud after bud, leaf after leaf, are unfolded un-
til wonderful change it has risen from insig-
nificance to be monarch of the forest.
So with the mind of man. The infant's, like
the small seed that is planted in the earth,
seems to be of little consequence in its first
stages: but it gradually expands, develops,
obtains wider view, until, when its possessor
has attained maturer years, it becomes a some-
thing of admiration and reflection.
The Giver of all good has bestowed upon us


abilities, which in our early years, differ but
little from each other. There is a greater sim-
ilarity in the minds of children than in persons
of riper years. This latter difference is not
due so much to the fact that nature has been
partial to some, and favored them with minds
superior to others, as it is the result of careful
training, perseverance, and a determination to
advance.
	The receiver of a gift is expected to apppeci-
ate that gift, according to its value, or in pro-
portion to his estimation of the giver. We are
all the recipients of one of the most precious
gifts that could be bestowed upon human be-
ings; that is the power of acquiring knowledge.
	We are also responsible for this favor granted
us. If we neglect it, and treat it with indiffer-
ence,it is a sufficient proof that we are ungrate-
ful for this kindness; and ingratitude is classed
as one of the greatest sins.
	Besides this it is a well known fact that our
mental faculties, like the muscles of the body,
if left inactive, not strained to exertion, but
lying dormant, will become weak, ineffective,
and diminish in power.
	While, on the other hand, if the mind is ex-
erted in obtaining information from every con-
ceivable source, being continually active, it,
like the arm of the earnest manual laborer,
will become stronger, increase in power in
proportion to its legitimate use.
	We should, then become acquainted with,
and have a general knowledge of every science.
	A knowledge of mineralogy and chemistry
enables us to view even the inanimate objects
of nature with admiration and interest; and
the dull rock which the careless observer would
not deign to notice, has become a fit subject
for thought, and awakens within us a feeling
which creates a desire to penetrate the mysteries
and learn more of the wonders of nature. A
knowledge of plants is elevating and refining,
causing the unattractive thistle to be as much
an object of beauty as the most gorgeous flower
of tropical climes.	*	*	*	*
	We shall thus be able to converse more
agreeably on various subjects.
	And what can be more pleasing than to listen
to a good conversationalist? One who can set
forth his ideas in pleasing terms? I recall to
mind an instance of this kind. An elderly gen-
tleman, while talking on his favorite subject,has
so concentrated my attention that I have been
perfectly oblivious to all else: and so intensely
engrossed in his subject was he that it seemed
to be a part of himself. His face all aglow
with animated thought, caused one to become
enraptured, and partake of the powerful in-
fluence exerted by the speaker.
	If the habit of talking on topics of a lofty
nature, were to become universal, what a
change there would be in our fireside conversa-
tion! Then the tales of scandal would be at a
discount, and the tongue of gossip would be
silent.						CAMEO.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


SURPRISE PARTY.

  The officers and some of the members of the
Relief Society  of  South  Cottonwood,  with
many members of the family, met  at the resi-
dence of our aged and beloved Sister (Mother)
Maxfield, in a surprise party, spending a happy
and agreeable time conversing on the things of 
God and the early rise of this Church and peo-
ple, their  mobbings  and  persecutions, bringing
tears  to  the  eyes  of  many,  filling  each  heart
with a stronger determination  to  live  humbly
before the Lord.  Truly was  it  a  feast  to me
to meet  and  converse  with  some  of the aged
veterans who were personally  acquainted with
the  Prophet  Joseph.  The  Lord chasteneth
those whom he loveth.  Mother Maxfield has


been numbered with this people from the early
rise of this Church, having  raised  a  family of
nine boys and one girl.  A poem  in  honor of
the lady, composed by Mrs. Martha G. Young,
was read  at  the  table.  May her  days  end in
peace.             M. G. Y.


WM. G. HEBERHART,
Druggist and Pharmacist,
44 EAST  TEMPLE STREET,  SALT  LAKE CITY, UTAH,
DEALER IN
 DRUGS, Medicines and Chemicals,  Toilet Articles,  Perfu-
mery, and a complete line  of  goods  usually  kept  in a
first class Drug Establishment.  All guaranteed  to  be  pure
and  fresh,  and will be sold at the  most  reasonable prices.
Special attention  given  to  Physician's  Prescriptions and
Family Recipes.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.
   OFFICE on Main St., Old Constitution Buildings.
 RESIDENCE on  South  Temple Street, between 9th and
16th East Streets.
  Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases  of  Children
and Diseases  of the  THROAT,  HEART and LUNGS.

WARNERS'S
SAFE
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE

  Is made from a Simple  Tropical  Leaf  of  Rare value, and
is a POSITIVE Remedy for all the diseases that cause
pains in the lower part of the body- for Torpid Liver- Head-
ache- Jaundice-Dizziness, Gravel, Malaria, and all difficult-
ies of  the  Kidneys, Liver,  and  Urinary  Organs.  For Fe-
male Diseases, it has no equal.  It restores the organs
that make the blood, and hence is the best Blood Purifier.
It is  the only known  remedy that cures Bright's Dis-
ease. For Diabetes,use Warner's Safe Diabetes Cure,
  For Sale by Druggists and Dealers  at $1,25 per bottle.
Largest bottle in the market.  Try it.
      H. H. WARNER & CO., Rochester, N.Y.

	ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.
OFFICE- Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE- Six Blocks East  of Post  Office, South side
of street.
	Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of  the  EYE and EAR.

PALACE OF FASION, No. 1 7 EAST  TEMPLE ST. 
MRS. C.  E. DYE,
 Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY.  The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet.  Also,  a  nice  selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes.  Country Dealers, please  Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its braches. Good  Work Guaranteed!

15 Cents! 15 Cents!

BIBLE ALMANAC
For the Year of our Lord,
1881
Published by J.H. HEMAN, Salt Lake
City, Utah Territory.
	Ask for it in the Book  Stores.  Sent by Mail Postp
CLASS IN MIDWIFERY.
DR. ROUMWNIA  B.  PRATT  WILL BEGIN  A  NEW
class in Midwifery, in her office, up stairs, Old Constitu-
tion Building, March 1st, 1881.  Students  should send their
names in time for books to be procured.
TERMS , 830.                   BOOKS , 812.
DR. ELLIS  R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
 OFFICE in Bishop  Hunter's old residence, between Z.C.M.
I. and the National Bank.
  RESIDENCE 11th Ward, 7th East Street, between South and
1st South Streets, west side of street.
  Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ties.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find  the  LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED  STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES, & SLIPPERS.
Also, full and  desirable  lines, best brands
Children's  Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West. 	Your Orders are Solicited.
	GEO. DUNFORD.

F. AUERBACH  & BRO.
HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL  AND  EXAMINE
Fall  and  Winter Goods.

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

	Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated  LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired on  short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

	Z.C.M.I.
WHOLESALE AND  RETAIL  DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS,  NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARD,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S 
SALT  LAKE CITY. 
 Special Departments for  Gent's  Clothing  and
Carpets,  Ladies'  and  Children's  Shoes,  Dry
Goods, Shawls  and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
Of Home  Made  Trunks  for  Sale  by  JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the  PROVO WOOLEN  MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets, 	Brown Yarns,		Cotton Batting,
Flannels, 	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls, 		Colored Yarns, 	Brooms,
Linseys, 		Cassimers, 		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds, 			Brushes, Etc, Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND  RETAIL  DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS,  WIRE MATRESSES FEATHERS  WALL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77,  &  79,  First  South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A.  B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
SPECIAL ATTENTION  PAID
to Filling and  Preserving  the
Natural  teeth.  Teeth  Carefully
Extracted.  FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set. in the
Most Approved Manner.  PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE: - MAIN ST[--] OPPOSITE  SALT  LAKE HOUSE. 
		[-]OX, 541.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

