VOL. 9	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1881.	No. 16.


THE SAD MESSAGE.

	[Written after receiving the sad news of a dear broth-
er's death, and affectionately inscribed to my remaining
brothers and sisters.]

Yes, to me the message came,
	On a dreary winter's day,
Sent on lightning's wings of flame,
	From our Eastern hills away,
Startling throbbing heart anew,
	Turning all the visage pale,
As along each nerve it flew,
	With its sad and mournful tale.

Op'ning wide the gate of tears,
	Running riot through each vein,
With an anguished sense of fears,
	Wrung from out the soul with pain.
Spirit shrank affrighted back,
	As it viewed the broken chain;
Self-condemned upon the rack,
	Tortured with the "MIGHT HAVE BEEN."

Thought, like arrow from its bow,
	Bore me back to childhood's scenes,
Where, in the far long ago,
	We had roamed the meadows green,
Ere we learned of evil days,
	That the future held in store;
Ere we trod the world's rough maze,
	Through dark disappointment's door;

Ere the separation came
	Of our little household band,
When in plans of work or play,
	All united, heart and hand.
Dear familiar names of yore,
	Now I call adown the line,
Sloping towards the western shore
	Of the boundary of time.

*		*		*		*		*		*

Cannot faith, or holy prayer,
	Weld anew this broken chain?
Must we grope in dark despair,
	For the missing link in vain?
May we not with weeping find
	Key to this mysterious grace,
That gives sight unto the blind,
	Wipes sad tears from every face?

Where is he, who faint and slow,
	Searched through wilds the lost to save,
Bore earth's weary weight of woe,
	Rose triumphant o'er the grave?
Is the darkness so profound,
	Is the gulf so wide between,
That the way can ne'er be found
	To those heavenly pastures green?

Christ Thou tender Savior dear,
	If poor human hearts can bleed
With such yearning love and fear,
	For the soul's extremest need,
We cannot fathom the divine,
	Reaching round eternal zones,
God hath said, "all souls are mine,"
	Will not our Father save his own?

Chilly drops of winter's rain,
	Sighing winds sweep o'er the way,
Taking up the sad refrain
	Of our troubled hearts to-day.
Oh, for faith that [--]oks beyond,
	All this doubting fear and gloom;
Angels Hands to roll the st[---]
	Backward from the darkened tomb.
							L. M. HEWLINGS:
Atchison, Kansas, December, 1880.


ON Friday, the 21st inst., will be the anni-
versary of the birthday of President Eliza R.
S. Smith, known to the Latter-day Saints as
Zion's poetess.Sister Eliza will be 77 years of age.


[Column 1]
FAMILIARITY BREEDS CONTEMPT.

	Almost without exception allowance has to
be made for all sayings of a profane world; as
both its ideas and its language can but faintly
approach the expression of sublime truths.
Like the poet it can "lead you to the gate"
only, but you, yourself must make the effort to
get in. The Savior said "Do not throw pearls
before swine." Kind young reader of WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT! I have a desire to talk a
little to you upon these sayings, and if I succeed
in getting your attention I may fortify you
against many an error; the victims of which
may never tell you of their bitter and regretful
sighs heaved in the silent night, where only
angels took notice.
	You know that your "familiarity" with your
kind,loving intimate friends,does not breed con-
tempt for you,in those friends; but on the con-
trary, you become more and more attached and
devoted to each other, as your friendship grows
older. But now let us see what this saying of
a profane world, "familiarity breeds contempt"
means. I do not purpose to introduce you to a
profane world, or make you acquainted with
its follies; but I will refer you to Matthew, 13th
Chapter, and ask you to read the last 5 verses,
in which you have the explanation. I will
take the liberty to add "He, the Savior,left be-
cause he would not throw pearls before swine."
	Now I will suppose, my young friends, that
you are qualified to move, even in the society
of the Savior; and, that your familiarity with
some person, should breed contempt, in that
person, for you. Suppose again, that your
grieved heart, trustingly appealed to me, I
would dare to say, without hearing the other
side: that person is not worthy of your friend-
ship; and I might say to you: "do not again
throw pearls before swine."
	Now think with me for a little while. An
attempt by anybody to degrade his neighbor, ab-
solutely reveals that that neighbor is better than
he or she who made such an attempt.
	You know the Savior said, that the measure
we give to others, shall again be measured un-
to us. Why? The "measure" that bred
contempt for you, was envy, attempting to put
you on a level with that which is below you,to
degrade you. How will then the judgment
(measure) revert back upon the offender? His
attempt "enviously" to degrade you on purpose
to exalt himself thwarted his designs, re-
vealing what he wanted to conceal: his own
inferiority.
	Do you see now how I dare to be so decisive
a judge as above?
	It is well your heart is full of love and sym-
pathy, but beware of that spongy softness, that
is afraid of calling a thing by its right name.
You cannot preserve your heart, pure, if you
tolerate sin! The Lord does not do it; and
He wants us to be like him in order to obtain
of his glory. Be careful therefore who you
take into your friendship. Ask your mother
or your teacher to tell you instances of your
suffering sisters who threw their pearls before
swine; and who in disgrace, dishonored, turned
back upon the road strewn with tears and re-
gret; to regain (at least partly) what they had
lost, through being entangled in bad company.
	I am sure that if we are fortunate enough, to
meet and associate with our beloved Queen-
Mother Eve, we will have an esteem and love
for her, that words but faintly can express.
With such feelings let us think a little more,

[Column 2]
over what happened in the Garden of Eden;
at the same time a dmitting that we know
neither the extent nor intensity of the tempta-
tion to which she was exposed; neither can we
measure her strength or ability to resist; but
by reading the 5 first verses of Chapter 3
Genesis, we have the whole story told in sub-
lime clearness and simplicity. Lucifer, the
most cunning Master Liar, who drew a third
part of his brethren into rebellion against God,
and made them believe that he (Lucifer) was
the superior of the two; this very monster ap-
peared before Mother Eve in the Garden of
Eden; "imitating" all the affability he recol-
lected having seen in the Mansions of Glory;
for if possible to elude aversion, and fascinate
Eve, so she should not be able to discern the
fraud.
	His first effort was concealment. Why? be-
cause he wanted to lie and deceive; for what
purpose? To prejudice Eve against God. Lu-
cifer did know,that good people cannot at once
be brought to accept sin; therefore, falsehood
and truths had to be mixed,(as in 5th verse) to
warp the mind from good to evil, by prejudice:
the tactical, infernal introduction to ruin and
death.
	In the 5 mentioned verses in the 3rd Ch.
Genesis, we see then how the fall was inaugur-
ated in the Garden of Eden, disadjusting the
minds of men, by prejudice against God,
brought about by a professional liar for the
object of concealing evil; which admitted
reveals consciousness of wilful sin. Through
the gift of the Holy Ghost, the "desire" to con-
ceal, is the very thing which reveals it, to the 
Children of Light. If as in the Garden of
Eden,Lucifer conquers, then darkness reigns;
and where darkness is exposed to light, pre-
judice is overcome.
	Whether then, as in the Garden of Eden,
or as in the case above, if "throwing pearls be-
fore swine" is not studiously avoided, the same
evils will be at work, prejudice and envy. It
is sin versus innocence; and wherever you go,
where these two factors exist, it is the same
process over again, as in the Garden of Eden.
It is for the Saints to learn this lesson; the
Lord will not destroy our agency but we have
to shun evil and choose good.
	HERMITA.


A DAILY SACRIFICE.
	It is written that to obey is better than
sacrifice, which is all very true where properly
applied; but in the experience of life, we learn
there is a daily sacrifice to be made in order to
accomplish the great life-labor all came here
to perform, that we might reconcile the will of
fellow men to the noble reclaiming designs of
the Creator.
	It is plain to the understanding of a reflect-
ing mind that through ignorance, superstition
and false education,many of the human family
sustain a great loss, and unless we search dil-
igently and learn the cause that produces the
effect, the evil cannot be removed, neither can
man be placed on a more sure basis of success,
for ignorance is the progenitor of failure.
And I believe there is no better way to obtain
this knowledge than to study the laws of na-
ture, which are the laws of God, and acquaint
ourselves with the main principles that will
redound to the elevation and happiness of
present and future generations. I do not con-
demn all the traditions and teachings extant


in the world, for  there  are  many  noble  and
saving principles, that it would be well for the
children of  Zion  to  profit  by;  for  all  good
cometh of God.  And  we should  imitate  the
wise busy bee, that culls sweet from every flow-
er, and as she fills her  house with  richness, so
we should store our minds with understanding,
for knowledge is power;  and  it  requires  great
will, power  and force of  character, to  control
and subdue our fallen  nature and  obtain self-
government, which is the key to proper family
government.
	It is contrary to the laws  of  nature for par-
ents to bring their children under  orderly  and
proper control, when they  themselves  will not
submit to the order and will  of God,  and  the
dictation of their own better judgement.
	Order cannot be brought  out of chaos, or it
is hard to do so.  Often is the remark made by
persons,  when  sorrow  or  trouble  overtakes
them,  I have  done the best I  know how un-
der the circumstances. True, yet often-times in
searching  further  we  find a want  of proper
tuition, or a neglect to  inform the mid of the
most important  principles pertaining  to our
own organism, or what the course to pursue to
enhance life which must be  learned  and lived
up to, in our  every  day  lives,  before  we  can
accomplish  much  towards  reclaiming  the
human family  from their  degenerate  and fal-
len condition.  In this  there is a sacrifice to be
made, for fallen nature  revolts  at  the  idea  of
being put as an offering, on the altar, of which
Christ is the chief  corner  stone, crowned with
the  Golden Rule, that  is  "to do unto  others
as you would that  they  should do unto you,"
for the carnal mind is at enmity with God. See
Romans viii, 7.  How necessary  then that the
children of Zion, be  taught,  or obtain,  a pro-
per understanding of the  nature  and  the  de-
signs of God in their existence on the earth, and
that they  were not  granted  a  probationary
state to waste their time with the follies and fash-
ions of the world to the exclusion of a  higher
and more noble aim in life, but leading pure and
virtuous  lives, that  they  may lawfully  fulfill
the first great  command  of God, for it  is  this
blending  together  of  the  elements  of  nature
and the spirit, that constitutes the noblest work
of God, the soul of  Man, each being  endowed
with an  immaculate  germ  pertaining  to  the
Deity, having the privilege of acting upon their
own agency, whether  they  cultivate  it or not.
Parents should  understand  and  teach their
children true  principles, for many  sin  ignor-
antly, not realizing their  true  relationship to
each other and to God!
	It is written  that  great  things  will  be  ex-
pected at the hands of  the fathers.  See revel-
ation in the Book of Doctrine  and  Covenants.
This revelation was  given  in  the early rise of
the Church, and if so much  was to be required
at the hands of parents who were gathered out
of  the  different  denominations  of  that  day,
traditionated as they must have been, in  the
prejudices of the  world,  how much more will
be required at the hands of those who have had
the privilege of  obtaining  greater  knowledge
and a better  understanding  of the  principles
and designs  of  God, just entering in the  great
drama of life, clothed  with  the Holy  Priest-
hood of God, having been born natural heirs to
the same, untramelled with the dogmas of men.
But I fear that  there  are  some  that  make  a
stumbling  block  of  offence of those  who  not-
withstanding their  preconceived ideas, have as-
sisted to lay the foundation, in this the last
dispensation, of the  principles of regeneration,
which leads to life  everlasting  and a fulness of
glory, and  are allowing themselves to run into
skepticism, and the unbelief of the generality of
mankind, claiming  the  weakness  of  others
as  as  excuse  for thier own  neglect  and follies.
	This should  not  be,  for the  Lord  will not
justify any one  in  this course,  except the  ac-
cuser can  and will do better than the accused.
See revelation Book of Doctrine and Covenants.
Our first parents  had the  fortitude to sacrifice
their own happified condition, to open the door
to knowledge, that future posterity might have
the opportunity to gain eternal lives in a higher
and more exalted  state of  existence,  by their
adhering to  faith  and  good  works.  And
evil of a necessity came into the world, that all
might act upon their own agency to choose good
or evil and through love of  gain  and honor of
men,yielded themselves to the enticings of that
wicked  one,  choosing  darkness  rather  than
light, until they have become what they are at
the present day, full of selfishness, doubt and in-
sincerity-until the whole  world  is  burthened
with sins of the most revolting character which are
being winked  at  by many  standing as  it
were at the  head  of  our  own  so-called  great
and enlightened Republic- while virtue hides
her face  in shame  and  justice stands aghast
shorn of his power to execute equity and judg-
ment.  Truly when the wicked rule the people
mourn.  It is evident that such  a state  of evil
cannot always  exist, there must be  a reform,
and this change cannot be brought about with-
out sacrificing false theories and traditions, for
pure  and wholesome  principles,  and  educat-
ing the mind by example as well as precept, to
a higher standard  of virtue  than  is generally
required to form  a  respectable  society.  This
being the case, how necessary for the  youth  of
our  people  to  become  well  skilled  in  both
mental  and  physical  accomplishments  and
vigilant  in  regard  to  duties, both  sons  and
daughters, that they may  not only make  good
citizens, but better  fathers  and  mothers, than
it were possible for  their  parents  to be, underthe circumstances.  I  believe there is  a  far
greater and more responsible meaning in the ap-
pellations husband and father, wife and mother,
than  is generally understood, that  unless both
possess the requisite qualifications to honorably
and truly fill so noble  and  responsible a posi-
tion,  it is a mockery,  a farce  in  the  sight  of
God.  It is written in 2nd. Corinthians, be ye
not unequally yoked together with unbelievers,
for what fellowship hath righteousness with un-
righteousness,  and what connection hath  light
with  darkness.  This  is  good  counsel, and a
very true explanation, and we should look well
to our ways, lest we be  numbered with the un-
believers.  I fear a great  many that profess to
be  Latter-day Saints  will  be counted  among
that  number,  if we  are  to  be  judged by  our
works.  It may be asked, how are we to choose
thus wisely? I know of no  better  way than  to
ask God to enlighten your  understanding, and
study the grand "Book of Nature" and become
familiar with her laws, then govern yourselves
accordingly, complying  with the principles of
everlasting laws, by sacrificing in our every day
lives our degenerate  propensities  and  desires,
and all else that is detrimental to the advance-
ment of future posterity;  then let  us  not  stand
in our own light, by yielding to the fickle fancies
of a moment, regardless of a more noble object in
life.  Learn  each  other's true character,princi-
ples, tastes  and  habits, and  see whether they
compare favorably  with your own true nature,
and the laws of God.  Be firm and true to your
better  judgment, and  listen  to  the  guardian
voice of nature, who is  ever  striving to  instil
in  the hearts  of her  children, her immutable
laws-laws that  cannot  be  broken  with im-
punity  without  condign punishment  to  the
transgressor, and that is not all, the evil is sure
to be transmitted in a greater degree, to future
posterity. Much depends on parents, in regard
to  coming  society,  of  which  our  children
are the germ, that  is  to be  instructed by  ex-
ample as well as precept, how to  wisely  and
judiciously implant life-giving and life-preserv-
ing laws both for  body and mind, that  it may
never be erased from the tablets of their hearts.
In perusing  the inexhaustible pages of "Nature's
Book,"  I find  written there, this  divine  asser-
tion,  that  "What  manner of see ye sow, that
shall ye also  reap  again.  Ye  cannot gather
grapes of thorns, or figs  of thistles,"  justly and
wisely showing it does  not all  depend on  the
soil as regards  the kind and quntity of  fruit
produced, and I earnestly  believe if one fourth
of the time and means expended to improve the
animal creation were as earnestly and zealously
disbursed  with  the  same  view,  to  morally
educate our young  people (and old as well) and
raise them to a higher state of humanity, there
would be less cause for sorrow and regret and it
would be taking a step in  the  right direction,
preparing to the ushering in of the Great Day of
the Lord.
	Then let us be alive  to our  duties  and  wil-
ling to offer our daily  sacrifice that we may be
accounted wise stewards in the House of God.
						N.A.C.


122	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


JESSE BURNS,
OR,
WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONTINUED.

	All at once a cry arose that electrified the peo-
ple, and rang from ocean to ocean, from Lake
Superior to the Gulf of Mexico. It was gold!
gold! It had been found on the coast of Cali-
fornia in such quantities that the whole coun-
try felt the thrill of excitement. The mechanic
left his work shop, the farmer his plough, the
gambler his den, the speculator left his stocks
and bonds, and all rushed, pell mell, for the
gold fields. Jesse too caught the fever; why
should he not have gold too? It was not for his
own comfort, he told himself, but for his wife
and little ones, not for aggrandizement nor
worldly honor, but for comfort and happiness.
Give me not riches, the prophet said, lest I
grow proud and deny Thee, nor poverty lest I
grow covetous and steal. So Jesse felt that he
did not wish to be a rich man, only to gain a
competence, and comforts for his old age, and
it all seemed so easy when he could dig it up
out of the ground in great yellow nuggets and
scales of yellow gold. How many comforts it
would bring for his darling Mary, how much
might be done for his sweet children! A little
gold would do all this, and he had only to
dig it out of the ground. There was much to
overcome before he could do all this, but his
will was strong and he could endure much with
such an object in view. With a mind full of
bright anticipations he provided for his family
the best he could in so short a time, and joined
the company that was starting for the Eldorado
—the land of bright dreams and bitter dis-
appointment, of gold and of crime, of sunshine
and shadows.
	He kissed his wife and children goodbye and
started; Mary watched him out of sight, then
embracing her children she turned into her
cabin to sit down and cry. She was not of a
sanguine temperament. She was always ready
for an emergency, and made the best of present
opportunities, but had no very bright anticipa-
tions for the future. She favored Jesse's idea
of building a sawmill, for she knew that lumber
would be a staple article, and in good demand;
if emigration continued and good crops were
raised they might succeed in making a com-
fortable home. But this dream of gold was a
far-off thing, the chasing of a phantom, some-
thing too bright for reality. Jesse was gone,
her husband, her protector; she was alone now
with her little helpless children, in that lone
cabin in the woods; with the wild beasts around
her, and the hiss of the serpent in her path;
alone in her helplessness and her poverty, with
no kind voice to cheer-her, no strong hand to


protect her. The men working at the mill, or
passing the cabin with their teams, relieved
the monotony of the day, but when night came,
and the stars shone down,so cold and so far off,
and the wolf howled, and the night owl hooted,
she kindled a fire, more for protection than use
although the evenings are chilly in the cañons,
and drawing her little ones around the hearth,
with baby on her knee and Minnie by her side,
she told her tales of the past, or anticipations
of the future, to amuse or interest the child.
She had no supernatural terrors, but the agony
of these long, lonely nights can scarcely be
described. Her cabin was not strong enough
to proctect her from beasts of prey if they should
attack her, and huge rattlesnakes often crept
through the floor, in a friendly way, but their
calls were far from being agreeable. Their
small stock of provisions diminished, and no
way seemed to open for more; their meal was
measured and the rations grew less daily, until
all was gone and there was nothing but dried
squash and the milk of their two cows, which,
owing to the severity of flies, was frequently
bloody. They had no meat, and the roots and
weeds were all strange and for aught they
knew were poisonous. So the weeks passed
by and hunger was added to their other dis-
comforts, relieved now and then by a little
provisions from the settlement. About harvest
time the lumber men left the cañon to attend
their crops and they were about to be left en-
tirely alone in that fearful lonely place fifteen
miles from town. Mary could not endure it
any longer; she felt the torture of fear and
loneliness was more than her mind could bear.
Although she had no home to go to,she insisted
on being moved to town, where she could at
least have human companionship. Accord-
ingly her little all, her children and house-
hold treasures were taken to the settlement.
There were no houses to rent there, and her
things were unloaded in a friend's door-yard
until a cabin could be built for her. Notwith-
standing the unpleasantness of her situation
she felt it a great pleasure to enjoy once more
the society of her own sex. To mingle with
her friends once more seemed to lessen the pain
of seperation, and distract her thoughts some-
what from constant anxiety about Jesse, from
whom, as yet, she had received no intelligence.
He had gone so far, and among such a mixed
multitude, and there were so many dangers and
hardships to contend with! She had never
been separated from him before; and it seemed
so far away over those dreary mountains, and
the time so long. If she could just see past
those rocky walls that seemed to shut her in,
so far from civilization, like a prison whose
doors might never be opened to give her again
the fresh, free air of her native land! If she
had not believed in the Gospel and trusted
implicitly in God she must indeed have suc-
cumbed to the terrible ordeal.
			To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 123


[Column 1]
LIVING LINKS:
OR
SPIRITUAL AND TEMPORAL.

BY AVONDALE.

CONTINUED.

	Great was the satisfaction of Apothecary
Lindsay when he found his daughter was se-
curely sheltered from poverty, by her being
married, as he fondly hoped, to a wealthy mer-
chant, and numerous were the congratulations
he received when the announcement was made
in the Court Magazine as follows:
	Married: At Coleman Street, in the city of
London, Mr. Wm. Unipod, merchant grocer of
that place, to Miss Mary Lindsay, only daugh-
ter of Joseph Lindsay, apothecary, of Ber-
mondsey, in the county of Surrey.

[Column 2]
	Mr. Lindsay had traveled much, and he had
become possessed of considerable information
relating to the history of his ancestors, by rea-
son of his father, Mr. Rector Lindsay, having
kept records of such transactions in olden
times. And Mr. Apothecary Lindsay thought
that one of the principal causes of poverty
and decay in families was that of imprudent
marriages. That gentleman did not perhaps
look at the final results that were brought
about to others, so much as the present incon-
venience to himself caused by loss of real es-
tate and personal property. As to the adapta-
tion of human beings to each other, beings who
were to be companions, the moral fitness of
things in relation to marriage, this was seldom
thought of in those days; as the saying is,
"Matrimony" was too often "a matter of
money."
	One of the many legends which had made a
profound impression upon the mind of Mr.
Lindsay was that of a daughter of the house
of Dunrod, of which he was himself a descend-
ant, and as the story is rather a long one, it
will be well, perhaps, to make it a separate
article.

THE DAUGHTER OF DUNROD.

	Lillias was the daughter of the Rev. Wil-
liam Dunrod, of the famous city of Edinburgh.
She was named after her grandmother, Lillias
Maxwell, of the house of Herries, and she pos-
sessed many of the mental and moral qualities
of that amiable lady. Miss Lillias had been
liberally educated, and, although her parents
were not rich, they were in comfortable cir-
cumstances. It was naturally hoped that an
advantageous alliance would be made for Lil-
lias, with some one of at least equal wealth
and social standing. The family of Dunrod
was an ancient one, claiming direct descent
from Sir James Lindsay, the friend and com-
panion of Robert Bruce. It is true, the ancient
patrimony of the family had dwindled into
insignificance, the estates settled on them by
Bruce and the early Stuarts, for services ren-
dered at a time when success was too frequently
the guage of merit in human transactions, these
estates had passed away. So recently as in
1610 the Mains of Kilbride, near Glasgow,
had been alienated; subsequently the lands
and castle of Dunrod, and other estates, had
passed away from the family. As to property,
it was a subject that caused no anxiety to Miss
Lillias Dunrod, and when her grandmother
told her of the former opulence of her fathers,
and of the probability that she would marry
well in consequence of her family connections,
such considerations did not trouble Miss
Lillias.
	It so happened that that young lady had al-
ready settled the question of marriage to her
entire satisfaction. A young gentleman of
Dufton, in Westmoreland, appeared to her to be
the most suitable man in the world for a hus-
band. His name was plain John Phesdo; he
was a descendant of the former laird of Phesdo.
He was also related to the Dunrod family.
All this was well enough as far as it went, but
he was poor, and the father of Lillias for this
reason did not think the match a desirable one.
In vain did Miss Lillias try to reason out the
matter with her father, by showing that it was
no fault of John's that he was poor. If the fault
rested with any one, it was with the grand-
father of John, who had lost his estate by his
own imprudence. How far Miss Lillias was
correct in her conclusions it is not very easy to
say at this distance of time, as the manuscript
only states as follows: "The laird of Phesdo
had many followers; they were out with the
men of the Falconer family with hawks, at
Montrose. A quarrel arose between the fol-
lowers of Phesdo and those of Falconer, in the
midst of which a baillie came in and tried, to
quell the tumult. While the riot continued,

[Column 3]
John of Phesdo came among them with a
drawn sword, and cut off the baillie's arm.
For this offense the baillie took advantage of
law, and Phesdo forfeited his estate. The es-
tate is now in the Falconer family." This was
written in 1689.
	Now the way in which Miss Lillias had read
history led her to believe that the act of the
laird of Phesdo was not nearly so malicious or
sanguinary as that of some of her own ances-
tors who had been rewarded for such deeds.
Besides this, she argued, John Phesdo is not to
blame for an act done by his grandfather.
Much more would have been said if her father
would have listened to it; and finally, as Miss
Lillias could not obtain the parental consent,
she determined to be married without, and
John Phesdo and Lillias Dunrod became one,
living together very happily for many years;
although comparatively poor. This was the
"imprudent marriage" that had determined
Mr. Apothecary Lindsay to see that his daugh-
ter was married to a wealthy merchant; we
shall see how he succeeded—time is a great re-
vealer of secrets. It may be there is something
more to live for than gold and silver; it may
be that marriage is for a higher purpose than
mere selfish gratification. Possibly we are liv-
ing links, connecting the present and future
with the past, the spiritual and the temporal,
the things of time with those of eternity.

To be Continued.


WOMAN'S VOICE.
	I have  often  thought I should like to show
my  appreciation  of  your  valuable  paper  by
adding  a  few lines to  its  columns, could you
spare me  space.  Every  number  to  me is be-
coming more full of interest.  I sincerely hope
my sisters will continue to exert their efforts in
preparing food for our minds.  I feel that it is
our duty to  try to improve each other.  There
are some among us who have had but a limited
education,  consequently it is more difficult for
them  to  express thoughts and ideas, either by
voice  or by pen  and  paper, and such need en-
couragement, as  has  been  observed by  one of
our sisters in an article  entitled "Commenda-
tion  versus  Criticism," while  others  who have
been more fotunate can  get  along  better.  I
feel thankful that our young folks have such a
splendid opportunity of improving their minds;
they will  help  to  bring  forth have such a
splendid opportunity of improving their minds;
they will  help  to  bring  forth the talents that
are  now in obscurity among this people.  I be-
lieve  if  the  majority  of  us  were  not  so  timid
and  so  afraid  of  criticism, we  could do  more
in this work.  I hope  to see the day when  the
Latter-day  Saints  will  excel  all  other  people
in  both  prose  and  poetry.  I know if our de-
sires are pure the Spirit of the Lord will assist
us.  Let  us  endeavor  to have  books that will
be both amusing  and instructive to the young,
that they may have no desire to read the trash
of the  world.  I  join  my sisters  in  thanking
the author of a "Pen  Sketch  of an Illustrious
Woman,"  and  pray that  we may  all prove our-
selves worthy  of  a celestial crown  with her in
the kingdom of our God.  I think if we could
only  realize the glory that is in  store for those
who  do  right, we should not feel life so weari-
some nor would duty seem a task.
 I hope, dear  editor, you will  continue your
labor, for  our  benefit.  I wish  you  a  Happy
New Year, and success to the EXPONENT,
M. A. PINGREE.
Ogden City, Jan. 2, 1881.


THE old clothes that we wear no longer; may
give comfort and confidence to a man  in  naked
destitution.  The truths  that are so familiar to
us that we never think  about  them may raise
the  utterly ignorant to a sense of their human
brotherhood.--Hamerton.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JANUARY 15, 1881.


ONLY  A WOMAN’S OPINION.

Every woman likes to  have her say  and espe-
cially  every woman editor  whether her  opinion
be worth much or little.
It is useless perhaps  to repeat in the columns
of the EXPONENT what is now  so well known
<ortheejcptjnet whait="" is="" now="" so="" well="" knowni="" sand="" widely="" -circulated="" concerning="" the="" certificate;="" bnofi="" election="" for;="" utah’s,="" .delegate="" .to="" congress.="" in(="" ithe="" great="" hnd="" far-seeing="" wisdom="" of="" present'="" governor="" of'the="" territory,="" said="" certificate="" was="" issued="" in="" favor="" allen="" g.="" campbell,="" minority="" candidate,="" for-="" whom="" 1,357="" votes="" were="" polled="" a'territory="" lpq,ooq="" inhabitants,and="" where="" 18,-="" '568="" cast="" for="" delegate="" the!="" -ff(,people’s="" .party,="" hpn.="" george="" q.="" cannon.="" i="" how;="" v(riargo,a="" .class,="" people.pf="" utah,="" does="" .mr.i="" .campbell="" represent?="" a="" very="" small="" proportion.,="" fwhat="" interest="" has="" he="" common="" with="" ,peo-'="" r-iple.="" “who="" have="" settled="" whose="" .bone="" and="" ni="" sinew="" muscle="" brain="" have,="" developed="" this="-" barren="" waste="" country="" which="" had="" erst="" been="" rejected="" by="" bravest="" mountaineers,as="" notin-!="" ;="" thatiitable="" white="" men?="" what="" doeshe="" know="" ’the="" needs="" people="" who="" toiled,="" are.="" '.'still="" honorably="" toiling="" to="" build="" up="" improve="" 'the="" country,="" furnish="" labor="" working="" 0class,="" establish="" promote="" educational="" "interests="" alj;="" jmr.="" campbell="" may="" be="" "'qualified="" position="" were,="" conversant="" -witl="" their="" needs,="" but="" y.'haye'ciibseh="" themselves,="" vsiiall="" according="" law="" land.="" government="" people,="" such="" as="" ijnited="" states="" constitution="" guarantees="" 'ail="" citizens,it="" seems="" complete="" bprlesque="" mockery="" jaw="" and,="" justice="" perpetrate="" an="" 'act="" practised="" .upon="" majority="" citizens="" utah="" instance="" issuance="" -,;="" gov.="" murray.="" t'does="" mot="" seem="" possible="" that="" act="" can="" meet="" the.="" approval="" those="" sit="" power="" highest="" ri="" judicial,="" court="" nation.="" if="" how="" blind="" (limust="" wisdom,="" warped="" preju-="" -;'diced!their="" judgment.="" we="" will="" not="" believe="" -="" u="" sanction="" free="" gov-="" ernment,="" extends="" liberty="" ail="" worship="" 1="" god="" dictates="" own="" con-="" sciences.="" without="" taking="" any="" special="" points="" '!="" 'in’question="" space="" desire="" or="" ability,="" only="" say,="" it="" js="" persecution="" religion,="" jet="" say="" j="" nay.j'="" "mormon”="" would="" .been="" otherwise.="" shame="" on="" weep="" over="" wrongs="" persecutions="" waldensesahd="" pilgrim="" fathers="" yet="" pursue="" deatlaliose="" age="" i.-tipae,="" chance="" difier="" materially="" opinion="" sentiment="" doctrine="" from="" them.="" there="" one="" consolation="" the'.latter-day="" saints="" -i="" aud="" should="" give="" them="" implicit="" ifaith'and="" confidence,="" this,="" “in="" l.o'lv.v="" .'vi—.!="" .="" nf-'h'ut'="" :<="" div="">and widely circulated converning the certificate
of election for Utah's  delegate  to  Congress.  In
the great and far-seeing wisdom  of the present
Governor of  the Territory, said  certificate  was
issued in favor of Allen G. Campbell,the minority
candidate, for  whom  1,357  votes were polled in
a Territory of 150,000  inhabitants,and where 18,-
568   votes  were  cast  for  the delegate of the
People's Party, Hon.  George Q. Cannon.  How
large  a  class  of  the  people of  Utah  does  Mr.
Campbell represent?  A  very small proportion.
What interest has he in common  with the  peo-
ple who have  settled  Utah,  whose  bone  and
sinew and muscle and brain have developed this
barren waste  of  country  which  had  erst  been
rejected by the bravest mountaineers, as not in-
habitable by white men? What does he know of
the needs of the people who have  toiled and are
still honorably toiling  to build up  and  improve
the  country,  furnish  labor  for  the  working
class, and  establish  and  promote  educational
interests  for  all;  Mr.  Campbell  may  be well
qualified for  the  position  were  he conversant
with the people and  their  needs, but the people
have chosen for themselves, who their delegate
shall be according  to the  law of the land.  In a
government for and  by  the  people, such as  the
United  States  Constitution  guarantees to  all
citizens,  it  seems  a  complete  burlesque  and
mockery of law and justice to perpetrate such an
act as has  been  practised  upon  the  majority
citizens of Utah in the stance of the issuance
of certificate of election by Gov. Murray.  It does
not  seem  possible that such an act can meet the
approval of those who sit in power in the highest
judicial court  of the  nation.  If  so  how  blind
must be their wisdom,  how warped  and  preju-
diced  their judgment.  But we will not believe
such an act can have the sanction of a free gov-
ernment, that extends  liberty to  all to worship
God according to the dictates  of their own con-
sciences.  Without taking up any special points
in questions as we have not the  space if we  had
the desire or ability,  we  have only  this to say,
it is persecution  for  religion, let  who will say,
Nay.  Had it been any but a "Mormon" people
it would have been otherwise.  Shame on  those
who weep over the wrongs  and  persecutions  of
the  Waldenses and the Pilgrim Fathers and yet
pursue to the death those in  their  own age and
time, who chance to differ materially in opinion
and sentiment on points of doctrine from  them.
There is one consolation for the Latter-day Saints
and it is one which should  give them implicit
faith and confidence, it is this, that  "In God we


trust." He has delivered his people many times
in the darkest hours, from the most complicated
perplexities and snares of their enemies,and yet
the Saints should ever bear in mind that
"Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty."


A BEAUTIFUL BOY.

	We take great pleasure in announcing the
birth of a beautiful boy, which auspicious event
transpired at three o'clock Tuesday morning, the
4th inst., the happy parents being Mr. John Q. and
Mrs. Annie W. Cannon. On Tuesday the 11th,at
twelve o'clock m., the babe was blessed, Pres. D.
H. Wells (the grandfather) officiating, and the
boy was named George Quayle Cannon, after his
grandfather on the paternal side; the virtues of
both these noble men and excellencies may he
emulate in his future life. Our readers will no
doubt join us in congratulations to the parents,
and good wishes for the little one just ushered
into life. Mrs. Cannon was formerly connected
with the editorial department of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, and since her marriage has been an
occasional contributor to its columns.

ANOTHER BOY.

	Mrs. Cornelia H. Clayton, formerly Miss
Horne, who was for some years business mana-
ger of the EXPONENT, is the second time the
happy mother of a fine boy, born Dec. 29, 1880.
The boy is called Raymond. We sincerely con-
gratulate Mr. and Mrs. Clayton on the happy
event, and trust he may live to do them honor.


HOME AFFAIRS.

 THE Relief Society blanks  are now ready and
for sale at the office of the Deseret News.  Tune
books  which  have been  prepared to accompany
the Children's Primary Hymn Books are for sale
at  this  office.
 THE Relief Society of  the  Fourteenth  Ward,
under  the  efficient  management of a  commit-
tee of ladies,  Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Chairman
Committee, gave  a  social  party  on  Thursday
evening, Jan. 13, which was  in  every respect a
complete success.
	TRIP UP  THE  RIO VIRGIN.-On New Year's
Day Sisters Eliza  and  Zina  and  Mrs. Minerva
Snow started  on a missionary  trip  up  the  Rio
Virgin.  They  visited  Harrisburg,  Leeds,  To-
querville, Virgin  City. Duncan's  Retreat, Graf-
ton,  Rockville  and  Shonesburg.  In  each  of
these  they organized a Primary  Association; in
Rockville  assisted the  Bishop  in  re-organizing
the R.S., and  in  Toquerville  the R.S. and Y.
L. M. I. A.  In all, the sisters held fifteen meet-
ing.  "The Spirit  of  the  Lord was manifest, and
on several occasions copiously poured out."
	We gratefully acknowledge  the  kind  invita-
tion  extended us to attend a social  party given
in  the  15th  Ward Assembly Rooms  on Thurs-
day  evening, Dec. 30, 1880, and  sincerely  regret
we  were  prevented  from  attending.  We  also
see  upon  our  table  an  invitation to attend the
anniversary  gathering  of the  Y. L. M. I. A. of 
the  17th  Ward, which will  be held  at the resi-
dence  of  Mrs. Maria Y.  Dougall, on  Tuesday,
the 18th inst., and  hope to be there to enjoy the
good spirit and  feeling  that universally prevails
among the young ladies in their associations.
 WE welcome  gladly  among  our  exchanges
"The Bear Lake  Democrat"  published in Paris
Idaho, which comes fresh with northern news and
also contains many sharp and  spicy articles, cal-
culated to amuse  and edify the  eager and  fas-
tidious public.  Under  the  able  management of
the humorous J.C.R., and his eminent co-labor-
er J.H.H., we  think the  people of Bear Lake
County will  have a fair and  honorable news-
paper  representation,  of  which  in  times  past
they must have  felt the need.  We are glad to
see enterprises of this kind  started and  trust it
will prove a successful undertaking to all parties
concerned.
 THE Home Dramatic  Club  have  won  fresh
laurels by the performance of the two last  plays
"Pique" and  the  "Banker's  Daughter."  Both
these plays  were  good  and  as well  rendered as
could possibly be expected  of amatuers. Indeed
many encomiums of praise have  been  bestowed
upon some of the actors by  critics who have had
the  best opportunites of seeing the finest actors,
upon the stage in the  very  best theatres.  One
thing is certain the talent is  here and it may be
developed, if the people will patronize home pro-
duction, and not run  wild after  something from
abroad, paying out money, to be carried away in-
stead of  placing it  in the hands  of the  young,
rising artists here, and  thereby  building up the
profession at home.
 THE Quarterly  Conference  of  this  Stake  of
Zion  was  held in the Salt  Lake Assembly Hall,
Saturday and  Sunday, Jan. 8th  and  9th.  The
meeting on Saturday morning was occupied with
the reports and transaction  of  business pertain-
ing  to the Stake affairs.  In the afternoon, after
some  special business matters had been disposed
of,  Pres. John  Taylor  addressed  the  people  on
the  subject  of  tithing, explaining  clearly  what
the Lord had  said by revelation to  the Prophet
Joseph, and  the  system  adopted  by  President
Brigham Young.
	Sunday the  meetings  were  crowded  to  over-
flowing, many could  not  obtain  standing room
in the Hall, and were compelled to return home.
Pres. John  Taylor  and  Pres. A.M. Cannon oc-
cupied the  morning session.  In  the  afternoon
Apostle  Wilford  Woodruff,  Pres.  Joseph  F.
Smith and Apostle John Henry Smith addressed
the congregation.  Many excellent  things were
spoken during  the  Conference, and the Spirit of
God seemed  to  prevail in  power  during all the
services.  The music was grand, and all seemed
inspired to perservere in the  work  of God's king-
dom.  The  closing  anthem by the choir, "Glory
to  God," was  sublimely rendered.  Conference
adjourned sine die.
 A PETITION has  been  presented to the Mayor
and City  Council  of  this  city, asking  that the
traffic in liquor be restrained.  The petition sets
forth  some  plain  facts, and suggests, "that the
City Charter authorizes the City Council  by or-
dinance  to  regulate  the  sale  of intoxicating
liquors, and  to  regulate,  restrain,  suppress  or
prohibit  billiards, pin  alleys  and  other  games,
etc.,  etc."  The petitition was signed  by John
Sharp and  7,797 others, and urges the honorable
body to take from the table the petition presented
in  1876, signed by more than  six  thousand resi-
dents of this city, for the suppression of the sale
of intoxicating  liquors.  That  some  immediate
and effective steps should be taken in this direc-
tion must be apparent to every man and woman
who take notes of  what  is passing  before their
very eyes.  That  this suggestion  to  the  Mayor
and Council is none  too soon  is also  apparent.
In Utah  County  there are some rigid measures
enforced  against violators of  liquor  ordinances.
In Spanish Fork one seller was fined sixty dollars
and  costs.  In  Springville  another  was  fined
ninety-nine dollars and costs for similar offences.


REST.

	DIED, in Springfield, Mass., Dec. 3, 1880,
James Woodward, in his 57th year. Deceased
was born in Petersham, Mass., Feb. 14, 1824.
He leaves a loving wife, who deeply mourns his
loss, and many brothers and sisters to whom he


was affectionately endeared. On the silver plate
of his coffin was engraved the one simple word,
REST. His funeral services were held at his
residence Dec. 6. He was buried beside his
children, who had all died in infancy.
	The poem published on the first page was
written on the occasion of his death by his sister
and mine, and is more expressive, perhaps, than
anything I could have written. Farewell, my
dear brother, until we shall meet again.

					EMMELINE B. WELLS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 125


"GOD KNEW THE BEST."

	"Then be content, poor heart!
God's plans, like lilies,  pure and white unfold;
We must not tear the close-shut leaves apart,
Time will reveal the calyxes of gold."
	These expressive  lines were a favorite  quota-
tion  of  the  lady who forms  the  subject of this
memoir.  Young, beautiful and tenderly beloved,
and yet she has gone-gone when her life seemed
most  complete, in the rich fulness  of the crown
of holy  motherhood; gone  from  earthly vision,
passed  over  the  "river  of  life,"  to  the other
shore-the unknown.  Lovely,  innocent  and
good, the angels came and wafted her pure spirit
away  from  earth,  where, freed  from  pain  and
sorrow, and all the weariness and hindrances of
mortal  life, she  might develop  those  higher at-
tributes of the soul  that  were  imprisoned here.
	Mrs. Fannie Adele Cole, nee McBride, beloved
wife  of  Frank  Cole,  Esq., of this city, departed
this life early in the afternoon of Friday, Jan. 7,
1881.  On  the  18th  of December  last she gave
birth to a fine, healthy boy, and was apparently
convalescent, when, from  some  unknown cause
she took cold, a chill followed, and subsequently
she passed  peacefully away in a calm  and  tran-
quil sleep.
	Mrs. Cole was, in the best sense  of the word,
a superior woman.  She had  been carefully edu-
cated,  and  possessed  that  innate  refinement
which  gives  sublimity  to  womanly  character;
added to this were  the  charms  of rare  culture,
gentleness and  genuine kindness.  Of generous
impulses,  she  was  constantly  planning for the
happiness of her husband and friends, forgetful
of self in those she loved.  She delighted in the
beauties  of  nature, and  reveled in works of art.
Of  a  poetic  temperament and  decidedly artistic
tastes, she was ever  striving to improve the tal-
ents  with  which  she was  most  generously en-
dowed.  She was  a  model  housekeeper, and her
home was a place of beauty, adorned with paint-
ings, embroidery  and  elegant  trifles, the work-
manship of her own hands.  She was intellec-
tually gifted  and  had  devoted much time to lit-
erary pursuits, having written for the press from
early  girlhood.  It  was  perhaps  owing  to  her
sympathy with  those  engaged in  literary work
that our acquaintance  first  commenced  several
years  ago, which  ultimately  ripened  into a sub-
lime friendship.  She will ever be  like  a  bright
picture in  my memory.  A  leaf has dropped out
of  my life-history  whereon  was  written  many
tender things-the story  of  our friendship-a
beautiful leaf, silver edged and violet-tinted, 
whose fragrance still remains, sweet as the per-
fume of  June roses.  "God  knew the best."
	The poem  published  below  was  recited,  by
Mrs. Cole's request, at her funeral.
AUNT  EM.
THE  CITY  OF  THE LIVING.
			-------
In a long-vanished age, whose varied story
	No record has to-day---
So long ago expired its  grief  and glory---
	There flourished, far away,

In a broad realm,  whose  beauty passed all measure,
	A city fair and wide,
Wherein the dwellers lived in peace and pleasure,
	And never any died.
Disease and pain and death, those stern marauders
	Which mar our world's fair face,
Never encroached upon the pleasant borders
	Of that bright dwelling place.
No fear of parting, and no dread of dying
	Could ever enter there;
No mourning for the lost,  no anguished crying,
	Made any face less fair.
Without the city wall death reigued as ever,
	And graves rose side by side;
Within, the dwellers laughed at his endeavor,
	And never any died!
O happiest of all earth's favored places!
	O bliss, to dwell therein-
To live in the sweet light of loving faces,
	And fear no grave between!
To feel no death-damp gathering cold and colder,
	Disputing life's  warm truth;
To  live on, never lonelier or older-
	Radiant in deathless youth!
And hurrying from the world's remotest quarters;
	A tide of pilgrims flowed,
Across broad plains,  and  over  mighty waters,
	To find that blessed abode,
Where never death should come between and sever
	Them from their loved part;
Where they might work, and will, and live forever,
	Still holding heart to heart.
And so they lived in happiness and pleasure,
	And grew in power and pride,
And did great deeds, and laid up store of treasure,
	And never any died!
And many years rolled on, and saw them striving
	With unabated breath;
And other years still found and left them living,
	And gave no hope of death.
Yet listen, hapless soul, whom angels pity,
	Craving a boon like this-
Mark how the dwellers in the wondrous city
	Grew weary of  their bliss.
One and another, who had been concealing
	The pain  of  life's long thrall,
Forsook their pleasant places, and came stealing
	Outside the city wall,
Craving, with wish that brooked no more denying-
	So long had it been crossed-
The blessed possibility  of dring-
	The treasure they had lost!
Daily the current  of rest seeking mortals
	Swelled to a broader tide,
Till none were left within the city's portals,
	And graves grew green  outside.
Would it be worth the having  or the giving,
	The boon  of endless breath?
Ah, for the weariness that comes of living,
	There is no cure  but death!
Ours  were, indeed,  a fate deserving pity,
	Were that sweet rest denied;
And few, methinks,  would care to find the city
	Where never any died!


IN MEMORY OF—

	George W.	Dunford, son of George and Eliza
Snow Dunford. died in Salt Lake City Dec. 13,
1880, at ten minutes to five o’clock a. m. Little
George was born Jan. 1, 1878, being nearly three
years old at the time he died. He was an ex-
ceedingly interesting child, was very large for
his age, and his physical as well as mental de-
velopment was quite remarkable. Sister Eliza
R. Snow, in a letter to the mother (her niece),
said: “It did not surprise me as much when I
was informed that the dear, precious jewel had
departed, as it would have done had I not real-
ized that the dear little George always seemed
too good for earth. That mighty, noble spirit
was too much to be long encased in a mortal
casket. It must be great comfort to you that
God has blest you with such a beautiful, noble
child, and that by faithfulness to the Gospel you
can secure it, and receive it again as you laid it
down, full of intelligence. That child is sure of


a celestial glory; had it lived it might have been
contaminated, now it has secured its eternal ex-
altation." Other comforting remarks followed,
and the poem which we publish below, from the
gifted pen of Zion's Poetess. We also extend
our sympathies to the bereaved parents, for we
too have sorrowed, and know how to appreciate
the tears which flow when we are called to part
with those whose affections are entwined around
our hearts, but remember this, "God knoweth
best."

OUR LITTLE GEORGE.

George has been our darling baby,
	Then he grew our darling boy;
He was lovely, loved and loving,
	Mother's pride and father's joy,

O how short his earthly mission!
	To the courts of endless day,
From a world of sin and sorrow,
	Little George is called away.

He has gone where love and beauty
	Blend with music's richest swells;
George is now her loving brother,
	Where his sister Georgie dwells.

						E. R. SNOW SMITH.


PLEASANT PARTY.

	A pleasant  surprise  party was gotten up on
Thursday, Dec. 16, by some of the sisters of the
Thirteenth Ward Relief Society, in honor of the
70th anniversary of our  much  esteemed Sister
Melvina  Snow's birthday.  The  party was held
at the residence of her  daughter, Mrs. De Long,
with whom she was invited to dine, in order to
make the surprise complete.  On arriving  there
she was  greatly suprised to find a room  full  of
warm friends to greet her, numbering more than
thirty  persons, who  sat  down  to a table  spread
with  a  variety  of  good  things.  Among  the
guests  were  Bishop  E.  D.  Woolley,  Judge  Z.
Snow,  Brother  Millen  Atwood,  and  Willard
Snow, son of Sister M. Snow, with their  wives,
and quite a number  of  the  sisters who had been
acquainted for many years  with  our worthy sis-
ter, most  of  whom  made  a  few  remarks  after
dinner.  Mrs.  Rachel  Grant,  President  of the
Relief Society, spoke of the faithfulness of Sister
Snow  as  a  Teacher  in  the  Society.  All  ex-
pressed  their  appreciation  of her  good  qualities,
tendering  heartily  their  congratulations,  with
many  good  wishes  of happy  returns  of  these
celebrations, her  son expressing his  great  plea-
sure  at  the  kindly feeling  manifested  towards
his  aged  mother.  Judge  Snow also referred to
Sister Melvina, as  being  acquainted  with  her
from  childhood, and  as  a  neighbor  and school-
mate, speaking  in  the  highest terms of her in-
tegrity  and  devotion  to  her  religion.  Brother
Atwood also spoke of the worthiness and exem-
plary life  of Sister  Snow, having  lived  a  near
neighbor  to her  for  many years.  The time was
spent  most  agreeably,  the  Bishop  being  well
pleased with the gathering, and left his blessing.
The company  retired  at  an  early  hour,  feeling
well  paid  that  they had  made her heart happy
in her old age.
				E. H. GODDARD.


The  most  touching  legend  in  Mr. Edwin
Arnold’s "Light  of Asia,” is the parable of Kisa
Gotami and her dead child.  Competent scholars
had said that the poem was a faithful  presenta-
tion of the legendary life and  teachings  of  Bud-
dha.  But there was  at first  much  unanswered
inquiry as to the source of the above legend, and
some credited it to Mr. Arnold’s own powers of
invention.  A  young Sanskrit scholar,  Mr. J
H,  Thomson,  at  the  University  of Kiel, has
found  the original  legend  in  the  MS.  of  Bud-
dhaghosa,  in  the  library at Copenhagen.  His
translation and notes obtained for him the degree
of Doctor of Philosophy. EX.


126	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LIFE INCIDENTS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The Twelve Apostles, when receiving their
charge from President Oliver Cowdery previous
to starting on their first mission to the Eastern
States, were warned of the great difficulties
which they would meet with in visiting all the
nations of the earth, they would need wisdom in
a ten-fold proportion to what they had ever had
for they would have to combat all the prejudices
of all nations; they were to preach this Gospel
to every nation, and should they in the least de-
gree come short of their duty, great would be
their condemnation, for the greater the calling
the greater the transgression, he therefore
warned them to cultivate great humility, for
he knew the pride of the human heart, and to
beware lest the flatterers of the world should lift
them up, and to beware lest their affections
should be captivated by worldly objects and to
let their ministry be first, and remember that
the souls of men were committed to their charge
telling them that if they would mind their call-
ing they should always prosper. With regard
to superiority he said, "The ancient Apostles
sought to be great, but brethren, lest the seeds
of discord be sown in matter understand the
voice of the spirit on this occasion. God does not
love you better or more than others. You are to
contend for the faith once delivered to the Saints.
Jacob you know wrestled until he obtained.
It was by fervent prayer and diligent search that
you have obtained the testimony that you are now
able to bear. You are as one. You are equal in
bearing the Keys of the Kingdom to all nations.
You are called to preach the Gospel of the Son of
God to the nations of the earth. It is the will of
your Heavenly Father that you proclaim his
Gospel to the ends of the earth, and the Islands
of the sea. Be zealous to save souls. The soul
of one man is as precious as the soul of another.
You are to bear this message to those who con-
sider themselves wise, and such may persecute
you, they may seek your life. The adversary
has always sought the life of the servants of God.
You are therefore to be prepared at all times to
make a sacrifice of your lives, should God require
it in the advancement and building up of his
cause. Murmur not at God. Be always prayer
ful, be always watchful. You will bear with
me while I relieve the feelings of my heart.
We shall not see another day like this.	*	*	*
You will see the time when you will desire to see
such a day as this and you will not see it.
	"Every heart wishes you peace and prosperity,
but the scenes with you will inevitably change.
Let no man take your bishopric,and beware that
you lose not your crowns. It will require your
whole souls. It will require courage like E-
noch's. The time is near when you will be in the
midst of congregations, who will gnash their
teeth upon you. This Gospel must roll and will
roll till it fills the whole earth. Did I say con-
gregations would gnash upon you? Yea I say na-
tions will gnash upon you. You will be consid-
dered the worst of men. Be not discouraged at
this, when God pours out his Spirit the enemy
will rage, but, God, remember is on your right
hand and on your left. A man though he may
be considered the worst, has joy who is conscious
that he pleases God. The lives of those who pro-
claim the true Gospel will be in danger, this has
been the case ever since the days of righteous
Abel. The same opposition has been manifested
 wherever men came forward to publish the Gos-
pel. The time is coming when you will be the
worst by many and by some the best of men.
The time is coming when you will be perfectly
familiar with the things of God. This testimony
will make those who do not believe your testi-
mony seek your lives. But there are whole na-
tions who will receive your testimony. They
will call you good men. Be not lifted up when
you are called good men. Remember you are
young men, and you shall be spared, I include
the other three. Bear them in mind in your
prayers, carry their cares to a throne of grace.
Although they are not present,yet you and they
are equal. This appointment is calculated to
create an affection in you, for each other,
stronger than death. Your lives shall be in great
jeopardy, but the promise of God is that you
shall be delivered.	*	*	*	The day is coming
when the work of God must be done. Israel
shall be gathered. The seed of Jacob shall be
gathered from their long dispersion. There will be
a feast to Israel, the elect of God. It is a sorrowful
tale but the Gospel must be preached and his
(God's) ministers be rejected, but where can
Israel be found and not receive your testimony

[Column 2]
and not rejoice? No where. The prophicies are
full of great things that are to take place in the
last days. After the Elect is gathered out,
destruction shall come on the inhabitations of the
earth. All nations shall feel the wrath of God,
after they have been warned by the Saints of the
Most High. If you will not warn them others
will, and you will lose your crowns. You must
prepare your minds to bid a long farewell to
Kirtland even till the great day come. You
will see what you never expected to see. You
will need the mind of Enoch or Elijah and the
faith of the Brother of Jared. You must be pre-
pared to walk by faith, however appalling the
prospect to human view. You, and each of you,
should feel the force of the imperious mandate,
Son go labor in my vineyard, and cheerfully re-
cieve what comes, but in the end you will stand
while others will fall. You have read in the
revelation concerning ordination. Beware how
you ordain, for all are not like this nation. They
will willingly receive the ordinances at your
hand to put you out of the way. There will be
times when nothing but the Angels of God can
deliver you out of their hand. We appeal to
your intelligence. We appeal to your under-
standings that we have so far discharged our
duty to you. We consider it one of the greatest
condescensions of our Heavenly Father in point-
ing you out to us. You will be stewards over
the ministry. We have work to do that no other
man can do. You must proclaim the Gospel in
its simplicity and purity, and we commend you
to God and the word of his grace,	*	*	*
	"We now expect you to be faithful to fulfill in all
things and permit me to repeat all nations have
a claim on you. You are bound together as the
three witinesses were—You notwithstanding can
part and meet, and meet to part again till your
heads are silvered o'er with gray."
	After the Twelve returned from their mission
East they had a council with the first Presidency
in the house of the Lord where, my father says,
we laid our grievances before them concerning
some things which had transpired during our
mission. Viz., that Dr. Warren Cowdery and
others having used an undue influence over
the first Presidency through Oliver Cowdery and
others, they had suspended "Orson Hyde and
William E. McLellen accusing them, with the
Twelve, of not preaching the gathering to Zion,
or of gathering means to purchase lands in Zion,
when they were at Freedom, which was proved
to be a false accusation."
	"All things were reconciled to our minds, we
had a joyful season and one long to be remem-
bered by us: We continued together a day and
night."
	I will here remark that every individual who
had used an influence against the Twelve on
their mission, have apostatized and gone out of
the Church, and this should remain as an ever-
lasting warning to all others. In those days
there was a continual itching in certain individ-
uals to destroy the union existing between the
Twelve and the first Presidency and the union
in the first Presidency, which thing they did at
last effect.	*	*	*	"Oliver Cowdery, Warren
Cowdery, Jared Carter, Frederic G. Williams
and six of the Twelve became disaffected, turned
against Joseph and those of the Twelve who sus-
tained him, calling them hard names for sustain-
ing Joseph."
	"From the time that the reconcilation took
place between the first Presidency and the
Twelve, a reformation commenced in the
Church, most of the Elders and male members
felt to confess their sins. Those meetings of
humiliation repentance and confessing of sins
were truly the beginning of good days to us,and
they continued through the endowment."


TOOELE  STAKE  QUARTERLY  CON-
FERENCE.
Minutes  of  the  Quarterly  Conference  of  the
Relief Society  of  Tooele  Stake, held  at Grants-
ville  December  11  and  12, 1880, Mrs. Mary  A.
Hunter  presiding.  Singing, “Arise, O  glorious
Zion."  Prayer by Bro. Anderson.  Singing by
the  choir.  Reports  read.  Sister Presendia L.
Kimball, of Salt  Lake  City, then addressed the
meeting-  It  was a great  many years now since
the Relief Society was  organized by the Prophet
Joseph, and  that it had been a great blessing to
many  of  the  sick  and  destitute.  Spoke  of her
many years’ practical experience in plural mar-
riage;  she Joyed her sisters, with whom  she  had
been associated, in  a  family capacity.  Advised
the sisters to take good dare of  their  children,
give  them  good counsel and  never drive the
from home: teach  them  purity and honesty, and
to observe good  hours, and set  them  a  good ex-
ample.  Exhorted the sisters to be kind to those
who  need comfort; bless  those  to  whom  they
ministered in temporal things;
 Sister Elizabeth  Howard,  Salt  Lake  City,
spoke  upon  the  parable  of the ten virgins, five
wise  and  five foolish; exhorted  the sisters  to
imitate the example of the  wise  virgins, who
had oil in  their  lamps.  Alluded  to  the love of
[-]ress and the extravagance which was prevalent
among  the  Saints  at  the  present time;  said it
was not good  to dress little girls  like little pup-
pets.  Closed  with  remarks  upon  the Word of
Wisdom.  Bro.  Anderson  testified  to  the  truth
of the sisters'  remarks,  and  encouraged  all  to
persevere in the work they were doing to benefit
each other and build up Zion. Adjourned  until
2 p.m. Singing.  Benediction by Bro. McBride.
Afternoon session.  Devoted  to  Primary  As-
sociations.  After the usual exercises, Sister Hale
asked  the children  some questions, which were
very  promptly  answered.  The  children  were
very orderly.  Mrs. E. Howard gave them some
excellent instructions  on  good  behavior,  obe-
dience  to  parents, and honor to  the  priesthood
of God.  Told  them  to  try  and  remember  all
that was taught  them  in  their  meetings, pray
night and morning, and always speak the truth.
Instructed them to pray regularly fer the authori-
ties  of  the  Church, and for President George Q.
Cannon, that  he  might have  power given him
in Congress to be  preserved from the snares set
for him, and ward off all evil from the Saints.
Mrs.  Kimball  addressed  the  children  for  a
short time; told, them to be kind to aged people.
Entreated the little boys not to smoke tobacco or
drink whiskey, or  use profane language, but  to
keep  their  bodies  pure,  and  to  pray  to their
Father in  heaven  night  and  morning.  Told
them to be kind to all dumb animals, never treat
them cruelly.  If they would observe what was
taught  them  they  would  become  intelligent,
great  and  powerful.  Adjourned  after  singing
and prayer.
The  evening was  occupied  by Y. L. M. I. A.
Conference, Sisters  Kimball and Howard giving
good instruction.  Counseled the young ladies to
cultivate the  higher qualities  of  their  natures,
and not associate with those who are not seeking
to serve  God, but use all the influent possible
for  improvement, mental  and  spiritual  culture,
and  not  speak  lightly  of  plural  marriage, but
sustain  it  and  teach it in their  meetings; said
the  principle  was  elevating  and  ennobling.
Read all good books, fill their minds with  useful
knowledge, for  they could  take  that with  them
when they went behind the vail.
Sunday morning the ladies  attended the  Sun-
day  School, and  Sisters  Kimball  and  Howard
each made a short and appropriate address.
	Sunday afternoon.  The  Sacrament  was  ad-
ministered, and  then  the  sisters were called up-
on  to  speak.  Sister  Kimball  spoke  upon  obe-
dience, the  redemption  of  the  dead, the  duties
which  pertained  to  the  practical  work Which
must be done for those who had not received the
Gospel here in the flesh.  Said the Saints should
be  faithful  to  their  covenants  made  in  holy
places, true  to  their integrity, and their God.
Sister Howard remarked  that every  good  wo-
man ought to have her name enrolled in the Re-
lief Society;  every mother should set in exam-
ple before  her  children of  truthfulness  and hon
esty; we should live so as to have the confidence
of each  other,  and  not  let  pride  get  into  our
hearts.  We are tried  in  many ways.  Spoke of
Abraham’s trial  of  offering  up  his Son Isaac.
enjoined  obedience  to  the  priesthood;  thought
we ought to  encourage homemade, clothes  and
home manufactures of all kinds.
President H. J.  Grant  said he was  pleased to
have the sisters from Salt Lake City visit them:
felt he could endorse all they had said.  He had
always been acquainted with, the Relief Society
work; knew it was the, mothers who  formed the
characters  of their  children;  realized  these  or-
ganizations were a great help to the Bishops.
Apostle  F. M. Lyman  gave  a  description of
the Goose  Creek country, and related some inci-
dents of  his travels with Apostle Erastus Snow.
Said  the company in "which they traveled, con-
sisting of fourteen or fifteen  persons, always at-
tended  regularly  to prayers, asking the  Lord to
preserve  them,  etc.  Spoke  of  the  kind  and
obliging conduct of a young boy who was with
them, how  he  admired  his  manner;  he  could
not help making mention of his good conduct.
Bishop E. Hunter  said  he  hoped they would
recollect  and  put  in  practice  all that had been
said to them, etc.
Pres. Grant  made a few closing  remarks, and


the Conference was adjourned until the middle
of March, to be held in Tooele City, Singing.
Benediction by Bro. John Rich.
P. S. On Saturday the brass  band was in at-
tendance at the Conference, and inspired the
people with sweet music. The band is under
the leadership of Prof. James Ballitt.
ANN TATE, Cor. Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R.S., Y.L.M.I.A. AND PRIMARY
		REPORTS
	     UTAH STAKE

   Minutes of the Ninth Quarterly Meeting  of 
Relief Society, held in  Provo Meeting  House,
Nov. 27th 1880,  Our  President  Sister  Mar-
garet  T.  Smoot  being absent  on  account of
sickness, the  meeting  was  presided  over  by
Counselor  Mary  John.  A  number  of the
brethren were also present.  Visitors from Salt
Lake City, Sisters E. B. Wells, S.M. Kimball,
and  Sister  E.  Howard.  Minutes  of  former
Conference read  and approved.  The reading
of the reports  of  the  quarter  were omitted  in
order to give time to hear from our visitors.
  The Presidents of the different wards  of the
city, and  societies throughout  the county, gave
verbal  reports,  all  bearing  testimony  to  the
faithfulness of the  few who  attended their So-
ciety  meetings  regularly.  Sister  Kimball
made some very instructive remarks relative to
the Relief Societies, gave  some  instructions to 
Secretaries. Said she  thought it  would have
been  pleasant to  have  had a  record  of  past
events to  have  read  at our  Jubilee, and pro-
posed to have a box with important items and
events and photographs etc., to be opened by her
successors,  and if any Society wishes  they  can
forward items  to her to  be deposited therein.
  Sister E.B. Wells said, I  think  the  sisters
of Utah County are improving in various ways.
Spoke of  the  Relief  Societies as  a  means  of 
educating the sisters  they  also  make us better
acquainted with  one  another.  Thought  the
WOMAN'S  EXPONENT, had  been  the means of
doing much good at home and abroad. Spoke
in reference to the  Primary Hymn  Books and
Tune Book for the children, thought they were
well adapted for the use  of the little folks and
would be a great blessing to  them.  Meeting
adjourned until half past 2.
   Afternoon session:  After  the  the usual ex-
ercises of singing and prayer Sister John called
on  the  sisters  that  wished to speak.  Sister
Johnson bore her testimony to the truth of this 
Gospel. L.W. Kimball made a few  remarks
in behalf  of the  young  mothers who  were at
home attending  to  their  families  of  young
children, moved  that they  be counted  among
the faithful  few, and although she considered
it their duty to attend meetings whenever they
could, she  knew  there were times  when  they
could  not  possibly  leave  their  little  ones; at
least such  had  been  her  experience.  Sister
Kimball  spoke  in  praise  of  the  silk  hand-
kerchiefs  that  were  on  exhibition;  thought
great praise was due Sisters Sanders, Smoot and
Beebe for their energy  and perseverance in
the manufacture of the some.
   Sister S.M. Kimball said, in regard to Sister
L. Kimball's  remarks,  "the  mothers are  ex-
cusable on common occasions, but  they should
attend  their  meetings  that  their  minds  may
expand and enlarge that they may  increase in
knowledge and  may  truly become helpmeets.
Sister Howard said, the Relief Societies are do-
ing a vast  amount of  good, it is  the mothers
that form the characters of their  children, let
them  take  time  to  improve  their  minds, let
them  read  good books,  let  them  read  the
news papers  and  inform themselves as to how
the Lord is  working  with the  nations in these
last days.  Let  us bring  up our young  people
to good habits and inculcate principles of truth
and  virtue  let  us  teach  them  to  read  good
books,  It says in the  Book of Covenants that
virtue  cleaves  to  virtue  and  knowledge  to
knowledge, let us give them  good  advise and
then we will clear  our skirts;  let  us  put down
the spirit  of infidelity that  is  growing among
our young people.  I wish  also to  say a  word
in  favor  of  plural  marriage  it  is  elevating,
purifying and ennobling, it rests on the mothers
to inculcate  it in the  hearts of their  children
let them not  forget  that  it  is yet extant  and
the  principle  emanated  from  God.  I  am
thankful to God for a  practical  religion, even
in our daily duties we can  ask God to give us
strength  to do everything in a right and proper
manner that  the  Lord  may  love to  dwell in
our habitations, teach  our  children  to  attend
their prayers and to  respect us and respect the
rights of others.
 Sister E.B. Wells  spoke  a short  time on
various subjects  pertaining  to  our  salvation.
Of the  spirit  of infidelity  that  was  gaining
ground in the world and the lack of spirituality
and faith.  Said  she  had  witnessed a  great
many  manifestations  of the power  of  God  in
healing the sick.  We read  that  the  glory  of
God is intelligence.  I  feel that we need more
knowledge than we have and should read more
good books and inform  ourselves,  continued
giving  good instructions, to young mothers in
their several  duties  etc. Sister  Booth from
Alpine asked the  question, how  long should a
child stay in the  Primary  Association? Sister
S.M. Kimball  replied  keep  them  as  long  as
you  can.  Sister  John  made  a  few  remarks
saying, for the good  instructions  that we have
received I feel to rejoice, I am pleased with our
reports.  I feel  to  be  one with  my  sisters, I
know this is the work  of God.  Bishop  John-
son spoke words of  encouragement and praise
thought we did not lose  anything  by going to
meeting, do not let  Satan  tempt  you  to  stay
away but  tell  the  tempter  to get thee behind
me Satan.  Spoke of the  great help the Relief
Society of his ward had  been  to him in caring
for the poor, etc. Sister H.A. Beebe spoke in
favor  of  the  silk  organization,  also  bore  her
testimony to the truth and signified  her  deter-
mination to continue faithful, invited all to at-
tend silk meeting in the evening  and find out
what was being done.  It was motioned  that the
Conference  be  adjourned  for  three  months.
Singing,  "The  Spirit  of God."  Benediction
by Bro. Powell.
		MRS. CAROLINE DANIELS, Sec'y.

				HUNTSVILLE

 Huntsville Relief Society is partly composed
of Scandinavians, who we must say are hand
and heart in building up the kingdom of God.
Ready  at  any  call,  at  any  time, no  matter
what  the  work--spinning,  gleaning,  raising
flax, making  carpets, quilts, &c.  We have a
variety of home industries;  we  also  raise  our
own  wool, which  is  converted  into  stockings
with the greatest economy.
   With the kind help of the brethren we have
been  able  to  raise some grain  at times, which
has  proved  of  great  benefit  in  helping to re-
lieve the poor.  I think the sisters are as good
financiers as the Lord wants when  directed in
the proper spirit, for they are ever ready to be
directed  by  the  PRIESTHOOD  of  God.  We
have a granary, built by the Society, which at
present has in  its bins  one hundred bushels of
wheat, and considerable lent out.
  Our sisters,  many  of  them,  are  clothed  in
the winter with the work of their  own  hands,
and  they carry with  them  as  good a spirit as
though  they  had  all  the  paltry  fashions  of
Babylon  heaped  upon  them;  in  fact,  we  are
troubled but very little with the outside fash-
ions,  and  no outside  influences  to  draw  the
hearts of our children from the Gospel; though
a little rough at  times,  their  hearts  are  not
mixed with traditions which their parents havehad to contend with.  When they go out, they
generally mix  with  brethren  and  sisters, who
study to improve the morals of their neighbor's 
children  as  their own.  How  grateful parents
should  feel  to those who  study  how to improve
the future prospects of the rising generation.
  We have a  Young  Ladies' association in a
healthy condition,  with  Sister  Mary  Moselle
Halls as President, daughter of our late Relief
Society  President, Sister  Mary  J. Hammond.
She is a young lady of great integrity, follow-
ing in the footsteps of  her dear mother's exam-
ple, who  never  shrank  from  any  duty, until
death relieved  her  from  earthly  toil.  Her
memory will ever live, and  also  her counsel, in
the hearts of many.
 We are  very  thankful  to  have  a Primary
Association;  we  can already see the  benefit of
that  spiritual  education  which  all  need  to
make  good  fathers and mothers.  Truly it was
the  Spirit  of  God  that  inspired  the Primary
organization.
  We do  not wish  to  impose  upon your time
and space, but pray God  to  bless  you  and all
the sisters of the Relief  Societies who take any
active part in the  cause of truth and virtue.
				ELIZA A.  TRACY, Pres't.
				EMMA BURROWS, Sec'y.


PRAYER.

Y. L. M. I. A. 11TH WARD.

	Dear Sisters:—Having been requested to
write a short article, I will now try to frame a
few remarks upon prayer. I think this is a
very important part of our religion, which we
should never fail to perform. We know by
attending to our prayers we are greatly blessed;
for by thus doing we not only show to our
Heavenly Father that we remember Him, but
also our gratitude for His many blessings,
which He so continually showers down upon
us. He gives us all that we have, and in Him
we move and have our being. Knowing, then,
that we are receiving everything that is good
from the Lord all the days of our life, how
great should be our thanks, and sincere our
adorations! Morning and night should we
bow the knee in humility and reverence to
Him that made us.
	Our Savior has commanded us to watch and
pray, lest we enter into temptation. I think
Satan is pleased when we forget our prayers,
for he knows he is getting an influence over
us, if he can persuade us to shirk that duty;
and sometimes he tries to make us believe that
we have not time to perform that sacred duty.
If he succeeds, then we know we are by thus
doing not only disobeying a law of God, but
we are losing a portion of His Holy Spirit, and
He is displeased with us. God has said if we
draw nigh unto Him He will draw nigh unto
us. This we cannot do without prayer.
	James the Apostle tells us that the prayer of
faith shall save the sick; and there are many
instances in the Bible and Book of Mormon
which show us what wonderful deeds were ac-
complished through attending to this holy
duty. Not only in the Bible and Book of Mor-
mon are we assured of the power of prayer,
but to-day we know of the efficacy of faith
and prayer combined. Through faith and
prayer the sick are restored to health, miracles
are performed, and we are delivered from the
hands of our enemies, who are seeking our de-
struction on every side; and I think if it were
not for the prayers that are continually going
up to God, we should not have thus been pre-
served, and the deserts would not blossom as
the rose." Utah would have remained barren
and uncultivated.
	When the Lord sent Isaiah to King Heze-
kiah, to tell him to put his house in order, be-
cause he should die, we read he turned his face


to the wall and prayed and wept; and before
Isaiah had gone into the middle court, the
word of the Lord came unto him, saying,
"Turn again, and tell Hezekiah thus saith the
Lord, I have heard thy prayers, I have seen
thy tears, behold, I will heal thee, and I will
add unto thy days fifteen years." Although
God had told King Hezekiah he should die,
yet through his prayers He had compassion up-
on him and listened to his entreaties for life.
So we see God hearkens to prayer and is
moved by it. We are told He is the same yes-
terday, to-day and forever; and if He listened
to Hezek[-]ah, He will hearken to our prayers,
if we walk before Him in truth and righteous-
ness.
	Through supplication to the Almighty the
dead have been raised, the clouds witheld
their rain for the space of three years, armies
were destroyed, and Samson was avenged upon
the Philistines, when he was brought before
them for sport. Thus we can tell what can be
accomplished through earnest prayer; and the
whisperings of God's Holy Spirit tell us how
necessary it is for us to pray at all times.
When Jesus was upon this earth, although He
was infallible, yet He prayed to His Father.
Then if it were needful for the Lord Jesus to
pray, how much more so is it for us, who are
sinful and liable to err at all times. I think
we should not only pray for the blessings of
God for ourselves, but for all those who are
connected with us in the Church of God; es-
pecially for those who are holding responsible
positions, and who are placed over us, because
they undertake to do a mighty work, and it
is a great task which they have to perform,
and I am sure by praying for them we help
to strengthen them, and thus they are made
more suited to their duties. This is why
they so continually ask us to give them our
faith and prayers. Paul and Peter, when
writing to the Saints, entreat them to pray for
all men, and especially for them who are of
the household of faith. "And for me," says
Paul, "that utterance may be given unto me,
that I may open my mouth boldly, to make
known the mystery of the Gospel." If those
good men required the prayers of the Saints, I
think it is requisite and right for us to pray
for the Apostles and Saints of to-day; and I
feel sure they need our prayers and that they
would like us to pray for them. These words
ofttimes pass through my mind: "The prayer
of a righteous man availeth much." Then I,
for one, would solicit the prayers of all good
men and women. And I pray God that I
may so live that my prayers for them will also
prevail with God and avail them much.
							EMILY BATT.
	S. L. City.


128	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SURPRISE PATRY.

	On Saturday morning, Jan. 1st, about fifty
persons, including the teachers of the R. S.
and some of the brethren, assembled at the
residence of our beloved President, Sister C.
Liljenquist, on the occasion of her 59th birth-
day. After congratulations, we sat down and
partook of a bounteous repast; after which
Counselor Stephens presented Sister Liljenquist
with a small present, as a token of the affection
of her sisters. Pres. Liljenquist responded
with a few remarks, saying it was a great sur-
prise to her, and, thanking the sisters for this
token of their respect; prayed that she might
always merit the same. The Secretary read an
address composed for the occasion by D. Os-
born, also a suitable poem by H. Peterson;
speeches were made by Bishop Liljenquist,
Brothers Rose and Christiansen. After spend-
ing a few hours very pleasantly, we adjourned
with the blessings of our Bishop and Presi-
dent.


I will just add that we are trying to live our
religion and help roll on the mighty work we
are-engaged in. Each one feels to do her utmost
to help build our Temples and hasten the time
that we wiil be permitted to do a work to re-
deem our dead. We have also done a great
deal to assist the poor. According to the
counsel of our honored Bishop, we have do-
nated thirty-three bushels of wheat to some of
our poor, inasmuch as it was a year of jubilee,
that they might rejoice in being permitted to
live in Zion and partake of its blessings.
		Your sister and co-laborer,
					N. M. NIELSEN, Sec'y.


THE words of Jehovah are holy in His pre-
cepts, just in His laws, gracious in His prom-
ises,significant in His institutions, true in His
narrations, and infallible in His predictions!—
Bishop Horne.

	IT has been decided by the General Commit-
tee of the King's College Lectures to ladies to
take preliminary steps for the foundation of a
permanent college for the higher education of
women, under the management of an associa-
tion to be formed in accordance with the Com-
panies Act, and continuing to work in union
with the staff of King's College. The attend-
ance at the classes, which now include nearly
all branches of academic education, has been
very large, and mantained with little variation
during the last three years, the number of en-
tries still averaging upwards of 500 in each
term. It is therefore proposed to establish the
institution on the basis of a regular corporation.
A public meeting will be held with that object
in the ensuing autumn, and it is hoped that
suitable premises for the college will be built
or purchased this year, in or near Kensington
where the classes are now conducted.


[Column 1]
15 Cents!	15 Cents!!

BIBLE ALMANAC
For the Year of our Lord,
1881
Published by J. H. HEMAN, Salt Lake
City, Utah Territory.
Ask for it in the Book Stores. Sent by Mail Postpaid.

WARNER'S
SAFE
[image of a black worker]
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE
	Is made from a Simple Tropical Leaf of Rare value, and
is a POSITIVE Remedy for all the diseases that cause
pains in the lower part of the body—for Torpid Liver—Head-
ache—Jaundice—Dizziness, Gravel,Malaria,and all difficult-
ies of the Kidneys, Liver, and Urinary Organs. For Fe-
male Diseases, it has no equal. It restores the organs
that make the blood,and hence is the best Blood Purifier.
It is the only known remedy that cures Bright's Dis-
ease. For Diabetes,use Warner's Safe Diabetes Cure,
	For Sale by Druggists and Dealers at $1,25 per bottle.
Largest bottle in the market. Try it.
	H. H. WARNER & CO., Rochester, N. Y.

[Column 2]
THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 & 126
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Fall and Winter Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, CAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.
☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celbrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF FASHION, No. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed !

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF CALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns, 	 Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS, WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST. OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, 541,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

