VOL. 9.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1881.	No. 24.


MISTAKES.
*		*		*		*		*		*
Who does not make mistakes? If there is one
Who feels no vain regrets for ought he's done,
Who would not fain recall some things he's said,
Or joy to unravel some entangled thread,
I'd like to know him, and become his friend,
And in his company some seasons spend,
That I might learn the laws which he hath kept,
And strive henceforth to step where he hath step'd.

I have this sample in the Son of God,
And He has plainly marked the path He trod;
I need not err, the pattern is complete,
'Tis my own weakness where I failures meet.
But oh! what charity should here prevail,
Since mortal strength is ever prone to fail;
How constant, too, should be the fervent call,
Lord, help us! save us, or we perish all!
*		*		*		*		*		*
									LULA.


[Column 1]
THE VICTORIAN ERA.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Back steps are sometimes necessary to propel
us forward, and it seems I rather deal in this
mode of proceeding for I find I must retro-
grade a little in this era of Victoria. I have
spoken in my last section of Prince Albert vis-
iting England, and the association of the cous-
ins; but the Queen took an opportunity to in-
form her Uncle Belgium that she thought her-
self too young for any engagement, and wished
all such to be waived for two or three years.
Prince Albert was also notified to this effect,
she being little more than eighteen, with the
weight of a great and mighty empire upon her
shoulders. Of course, all had to obey this de-
cision; and it seemed a wise one. In October,
1839, Prince Albert and his brother again vis-
ited England their destination being that fine
old castle of Windsor, built by the Empress
Maude, which received the young Princes, and
the Queen herself received them at the top of
the royal staircase, amid all the magnificence of
the noble domain, as though they had been
Emperors. A noble circle of visitors were as-
sembled to meet them, who were all on the qui
vive to see how the royal cousins bore each oth-
er's society. Prince Albert was then a fine-
grown, handsome young man, with a counten-
ance indicative of his character—gentleness,
deep thought and high intelligence were
stamped upon his expressive features. All were
at once charmed with his appearance and man-
ners, which bespoke high purpose and con-
scientiousness. The visit proved a happy one.
The brothers had arrived on the 8th of Octo-
ber, and though it was understood that all
love-making was prohibited, about the 15th a
change had come; still it was no small matter
to address the Queen regnant of England, the
path was an intricate one; what had to be said
must be said by her, not by him—a necessity
of etiquette. The Queen sent for him to her
boudoir. He is ushered in by a footman, and
the door is closed. Then of course propriety
did not cease, but probably extreme etiquette
did, love told his own tale and was intelligible
to both, and when they emerged from that
room arm in arm it was visible to all that the
halo of love encircled them, and they had be-
come one!
	And now another trying scene had to be

[Column 2]
gone through, in which she was the principal
actor—she had to meet her Lords in council,
to announce to them her intention to receive
Prince Albert as her Consort, and felt it her
duty to apprize them of her decision; feeling,
she added, that she would be increasing the
happiness and prosperity of her country by
such a step, etc. Imagine, my young readers!
these were unique and mighty ordeals for a
girl of eighteen to pass through. But in all
such great events, it was remarked in every
paper throughout the country, how collected
and how dignified was her deportment at such
times, the only indication of emotion was her
extreme pallor; and at her coronation the dia-
mond stomacher she wore trembled glitteringly
betraying the pulsation of her whole system.
Though in the midst of a crowd of loving sub-
jects, she yet literally had to stand alone through
all. Think of it, and bless the girl for her coura-
geous nobility!
	I will here relate a circumstance that was
lovingly reiterated at the time all through the
country, as a trait of her womanly amiability.
At one part of the coronation, when she had
passed all the ceremonies, the crown placed
upon her head, and she was seated alone upon
the throne, the great officers of state make
their obeisance to the sovereign kneeling on
one knee; the dais on which the throne was
placed had to be ascended by two or three steps,
and a very old and infirm nobleman slightly
tripped and nearly fell. The Queen actually
impulsively sprang from her seat as though to
help him. Of course, in a moment attendance
was at hand, and all went on as though noth-
ing had happened; but the action was lauded
by all, far and near. Yes, Victoria has ever
been a natural woman!
	The childhood of Queen Victoria had been
spent in comparative seclusion, and without os-
tentation of any sort. Her mother the Duch-
ess of Kent, was a wise, judicious parent, and
knowing her grand and responsible future, pre-
pared and educated her for her high position.
Of course she had every assistance from the
most learned and exalted characters; but for
her moral training she was indebted to her
mother. And as a daugther she was most ex-
emplary to the latest hour of her life. In
every important event she considered her
mother's feelings; even when the poor wretch,
Oxford, fired a pistol at her, as she and Prince
Albert were riding in one of the parks in a
pony phaeton, the Prince clasped her in his
arms, exclaiming, "Thank God, you are safe,"
she said, "Drive me to my mother's house, that
she may first hear the news from me!" How
lovely the child in the woman, was exhibited
in this desire. They, of course, immediately
drove to the Palace at Kensington, and she
joyfully and even playfully related the event
to her mother. Prince Albert was almost
overcome with contending emotions, as well he
might be; yet she desired at the trial of the
imbecile that his life might be spared, and as
far as consistent her merciful desires were car-
ried out. Thrice her life was attempted at that
time, but in all cases she would have no life
taken for the deed.

The quality of mercy is not strained,

*		*		*		*		*		*

It becomes the monarch better than his crown,
It is an attribute of God Himself;
And earthly power doth then show likest God,
When mercy seasons justice!"—SHAKESPEARE.

[Column 3]
	There is real courage in Victoria. Like
Elizabeth, she has impressed herself upon her
people and her court. Libellous attacks have
been made upon her, but she has endured them
calmly and quietly. Her children are not un-
worthy of her, and they hold her sacred as
their Queen-mother. Princess Beatrice, her
youngest daughter, is an example to all daugh-
ters, of whatever grade; she has devoted her
young life to her as her companion, reader, at-
tendant, and as it were, her shadow. Princess
Alice was an angel in disguise within the fam-
ily circle—the watchful friend and assistant of
all; but she has passed away to join her la-
mented father in the realms of peace and joy.
	The death of Prince Albert was in one sense
a death-blow to the Queen. She has ever since
seemed to exist under a cloud, though the voice
of the country has somewhat aroused her from
her apathy, and of late she has in some degree
thrown off the incubus that enthralled her, but
every anniversary of that sad day she holds
sacred, visits the Mausoleum with her children
and one or two select friends, and her private
chaplain, and they strew the choicest flowers—
elegant wreaths, crosses, and bouquets—over
the tomb containing those loved ashes. A sa-
cred service of prayer is also always observed,
and the day is one of meditation and seclusion.
Within this Mausoleum is a sarcophagus, made
by the Queen's order at the time; it has two
recesses for two coffins, the Prince is laid in one,
and all know who is intended to occupy the
other. In death they will not be divided.


"UTAH AND ITS PEOPLE."

	This prolific subject is intelligently and
truthfully treated upon in one of the leading
journals of the day, the "North American" Re-
view, by President George Q. Cannon. The
article has been largely commented upon in
other journals and newspapers, and it will no
doubt be the means of enlightening many "who
sit in darkness" on the "Mormon" question.
Strange to say, there is still gross ignorance in
regard to Utah, its people and institutions, and
there are many who seek to complicate the
subject by willful misrepresentations, to further
their own purposes and destroy the influence of
those who have made the desert a desirable
dwelling place. They would hinder the "Mor-
mon" people from enjoying the privileges of
American citizens, representing them as a na-
tion of foreigners, holding ideas entirely at va-
riance with republican institutions. The writer
in the Review speaks of the large proportion of
men and women of Puritan, or New England
lineage. It is true, that go where you will in
Utah, in the smallest and most remote settle-
ments, you are sure to find a goodly proportion
of Yankees, or people from Ohio, New York
and Pennsylvania. In considering the nation-
ality of those who hold positions of importance
in women's organizations, it is a remarkable
fact that we find a very large percentage from
the Eastern and Middle States. But we as a
people do not recognize these facts in a religious
point of view, and those who embrace Mor-
monism, women as well as men, renounce their
allegiance to king, queen, foreign potentate and
powers, and identify themselves at the earliest
possible moment with the government of Amer-
ica, the country of their adoption.
	One of the leading journals in the East, in
speaking of Mr. Cannon's article, says: "He


gives a man's views and ideas upon the subject
of plural marriage, but no woman participates
in the debate, which is so emphatically a wo-
man's question—a question of the home." The
solemn protest of the thousands of women who
assembled in the Salt Lake Tabernacle in Jan-
uary, 1870, and in the Theatre in the fall of
1878, and spoke in unmistakable terms upon
the platform, and also voted upon resolutions
sustaining plural marriage, was certainly as
strong a point as could be made in any debate
upon the subject. It was the testimony of
wives and mothers, whose practical experience
entitled them to speak intelligently. Several
of these representative ladies had been married
long before they embraced "Mormonism," and
were fully acquainted with domestic life as it
exists in the world. It was not a radical, en-
thusiastic meeting, but a very large number of
ladies met in sober earnest, to give sincere ex-
pression to their faith, sentiments and prac-
tices in the marriage relation, and it was most
emphatically "the question of the home." The
speeches at the Theatre were reported verbatim,
ten thousand copies were published in pamphlet
form, the women paying the expense of print-
ing, etc., and they were sent out in all direc-
tions. This is not all; women can give as good
and as sound reasons on this subject as men
can, and are as zealous to sustain its practise.
							E. B. W.


186	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LIFE INCIDENTS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

CONTINUED.

	My father says: "I had frequently felt a de-
sire to visit the shores of Europe, and believed
that the time would soon come when I should
take leave of my own country and lift up my
voice to other nations, and warn them of things
which were coming on the earth, and make
known to them the great things which the Lord
had brought to pass; yet it never occurred to
my mind that I should be the first commis-
sioned to preach the Everlasting Gospel on the
shores of Europe, and I can assure my friends
I was taken by surprise when I was informed
by the Prophet Joseph, who came to me June
4th, being the Sabbath day, while I was seated
in the front stand above the Sacrament table,
on the Melchisedec side of the Temple in Kirt-
land, who opened the door and whispered in
my ear, 'Brother Heber, the Spirit of the
Lord has whispered to me, saying: Let my ser-
vant, Heber, go to England and proclaim my
Gospel, and open the door of salvation to that
nation.' Feeling my weakness to go on such a
mission, I asked the Prophet if Brother Brig-
ham might go with me; he replied he wanted
Brother Brigham to STAY WITH HIM, for he
had something else for him to do. In a few
minutes afterwards Hyrum Smith came; he
also opened the door of the pulpit and informed
me of my appointment."
	"The idea of being appointed to such an im-
portant mission was almost more than I could
bear up under; I felt my weakness, and was
nearly ready to sink under the burden which
was placed upon me, and I could not help ex-
claiming: 'O Lord, I am a man of stammering
tongue and altogether unfit for such a work!
How can I go to preach in that land which is
so famed throughout Christendom for learn-
ing, knowledge and piety—the nursery of re-
ligion—and to a people whose intelligence is
proverbial?'"
	"However, all these considerations did not
deter me from the path of duty; the moment I
understood the will of my Heavenly Father, I
felt a determination to go at all hazards, be-
lieving that He would support me by His Al-
mighty power, and endow me with every quali-
fication that I needed; and although my family

[Column 2]
were dear to me, and I should have to leave
them almost destitute, I felt that the cause of
truth, the Gospel of Christ, outweighed every
other consideration."
	"I was requested by Joseph to retire to El-
der Rigdon's after meeting, where the First
Presidency would meet and set me apart for
the mission."
	"When the Presidency came and were about
to lay hands on me, Elder Orson Hyde stepped
in, and partaking of the Spirit of God while
hearing what was going on, said: 'Brethren, I
acknowledge that I have sinned before my God
and you, and I beg of you to forgive me.' The
Presidency rejoiced and praised the Lord at
this manifestation of repentance of Brother
Hyde, who said, if they found him worthy, he
desired to accompany me on my mission to
England, or go on any other mission. The
Presidency then laid hands on me and set me
apart to preside over that mission, and confer-
red great blessings upon my head; said that
God would make me mighty in that nation in
winning souls unto Him; angels should accom-
pany me and bear me up, that my feet should
never slip; that I should be mightily blessed
and prove a source of salvation to thousands,
not only in England, but America. After
which, Elder Hyde was set apart, receiving
similar blessings; also Prest. Joseph Fielding
was blest and set apart for the same mission.
	"After being called on this mission, I daily
went into the east room in the attic story of
the Temple, and poured out my soul unto the
Lord, asking his protection and power to ful-
fil honorably the mission appointed me by his
servants; that the God of Joseph and all the
holy prophets and apostles that were before
him would be with me by the administration
of his holy angels, and that I might have
power so to live that all the blessings that had
been conferred upon me in that house might be
fulfilled, as I candidly believed that they
would."
	"At this time many faltered in their faith;
even some of the Twelve were in rebellion
against the Prophet of God. John F. Boyn-
ton said to me, 'If you are such a d—d fool as
to go at the call of the fallen Prophet, Joseph
Smith, I will not help you a dime; and if you
are cast on Van Dieman's Land, I will not
make an effort to help you.' Lyman E. John-
son said he did not want me to go on my mis-
sion, bnt if I was determined to go he would
help me all he could; he took his cloak from
off his back and put it upon mine.	*	*	*
Brothers Sidney Rigdon, Joseph Smith, Sen.,
Brigham Young, Newel K. Whitney and oth-
ers said, 'Go and do as the Prophet has told
you, and you shall prosper and be blessed with
power to do a glorious work.' Hyrum, seeing
the condition of the Church, when he talked
about my mission wept like a child. He was
continually blessing and encouraging me, and
pouring out his soul in prophecies upon my
head; he said, 'Go, and you shall prosper as
not many have prospered.' "
	"A short time previous to starting I was laid
prostrate on my bed from a stitch in my back,
which suddenly seized me while chopping and
drawing wood for my family, so that I could
not stir a limb without calling out from the se-
vereness of the pain. Joseph, hearing of it,
came to see me, bringing Oliver Cowdery and
Bishop Partridge with him; they prayed for and
blessed me, Joseph being mouth, beseeching
God to raise me up, &c. He then took me by
the right hand and said: 'Brother Heber, I
take you by the right hand in the name of
Jesus Christ of Nazareth, and by virtue of the
Holy Priesthood vested in me, I command you
in the name of Jesus Christ to arise, and be
thou made whole.' I arose from my bed, put
on my clothes, and started with them, and
went up to the Temple, and felt no more of the
pain afterwards."

[Column 3]
	"Elder Willard Richards having returned
from his mission the day before, I met him on
the street and told him: I am now ready to
fulfil the prophecy spoken through me last
January, as I intend to start for England to-
morrow; and I wanted him to go with me.
Considering himself involved in business with
Brother Brigham, he did not believe he could
go; but upon consulting Presidents Hyrum
Smith and Sidney Rigdon, and Brother Brig-
ham agreeing to take charge of the business
responsibilities, he was set apart at 6 p. m. by
Brothers Hyrum and Sidney to accompany
the mission to England."
	P. S. In what I said in May 1st concerning
my father's biography not being published, I
did not wish to throw any blame upon Mr. Tul-
lidge, and fearing that some may possibly think
so, I consider it no more than right that an ex-
planation should be given. He was the worst
disappointed, and the only one that I felt sorry
for; he was poor, and my father's family com-
paratively rich, though some had their property
in a shape not to be easily handled or turned
into money. My mother's youngest son, Solo-
mon, was the first to propose having our fa-
ther's biography written by Tullidge, as he had
just read Brigham Young's, and he gave liber-
ally towards it, and he has never regretted it.
When it was mentioned to Heber he readily
donated largely.

To be continued.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	EMILE de Girardin, the noted French jour-
nalist, is dead.

	DR. Lewis Swift, at the Warner observatory
at Rochester, N. Y., discovered a new comet on
the morning of May 6.

	YALE College has organized a class for ladies
resembling the "Harvard Annex." Lectures
will be given by Prof. Sumner, Williams and
Brewer.

	A NEW college of Egyptology has been es-
tablished at Cairo, Egypt, by the French gov-
ernment. The study of Arabic art and litera-
ture and hieroglyphics is the object.

	THE Alabany Morning Express says there is
a man in that city, whose name coold be given
if needful, who openly declared "if his wife
voted he would kill her." Women vote on
school questions in the State of New York, that
was what called forth this demonstration.

	THE thirteenth annual convention of the
National Woman Suffrage Association will be
held at Tremont Temple, Boston, Thursday and
Friday, May 26 and 27. Among the eminent
speakers are Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Matilda
Joslyn Gage, Isabella Beecher Hooker, Belva
A. Lockwood, Anna Garlin Spencer, Rev. Olym-
pia Brown Willis, Harriet H. Robinson, Rev.
Frederick A. Hinckley, Lillie Devereux Blake,
May Wright Sewell, Elizabeth L. Saxon, Har-
riet B. Shattuck, Martha M'Clellan Brown,
Elizabeth Avery Meriwether, Susan B. An-
thony and others. Three sessions daily at 10
A. M., 2.30 and 7.45 P. M.—Ex.

	GEORGE Eliot's husband accredits only one
portrait of her, a carefully finished front view
crayon of the head, for which she sat many
times in 1867, to Frederick Burton. Rajou,
the celebrated etcher, is re-producing this for
her personal friends, and the etching will be
reproduced in an early number of Scribner's
Monthly, by courtesy of Mr. Cross. All other
portraits, except one by Laurence, which will
not be engraved, the Athenaeum says, "are not
merely not authorized, but strongly condemned
by Mr. Cross." The wood-cut of George Eliot
in the May Harper's is, nevertheless, an inter-
esting picture, and its likeness is warranted by
Kegan Paul.—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 187


STARS AND FLOWERS.

The heavens are studded with gems to-night,
	With glistening gems of beauty rare,
As if they were eyes of celestial light,
	Kindly and tenderly watching there.
Some sparkle with brilliance fair and bright,
	Encircled at times with a halo of light;
While others appear to our finite eyes,
	Of paler hue and inferior size.

In the shady lanes of my English home,
	The honeysuckle's pure and fragrant bloom
Peers out from above the topmost bough,
	Affording pleasure to high and low.
The birds and bees sip the nectar rare,
From out the cells of the climbing plant;
Then flutter away thro' the scented air,
	And twitter their joy in a tender chant.

But we need the daisy and violet sweet,
	That nestle down in the grass at our feet,
They whisper, in accents soft and mild,
	Of love and joy to the little child.
Welcome each tiny blade and flower,
	In shady nook or on sunny brow;
Thrice welcome to those who have not power
	To gather them from the "topmost bough."

And some there are in the world of thought,
	Whose light shines forth like the stars above;
The world is richer for truths they've taught,
	The earth more fair for their words of love,
And some whose light is of paler hue,
	That is seen and felt by only a few,
Yet is of the same celestial fire,
	The same sweet spirit has tuned their lyre.

'Tis a glorious thing to be great and wise,
	To labor for all the human race,
To vindicate those the world despise,
	And bring all nations face to face.

The humble and meek need not despair,
	The field is large and the vineyard wide;
The worker is needed everywhere—
	In the shady lanes and rough wayside.
Yes, workers are needed in every home,
	For such as these there is always room—
To guide the feet of the erring youth,
	And scatter the seeds of love and truth.

If all the stars were brilliant and bright,
	The flowers climbed to the ivy's height,
And none for the little ones low and sweet,
	The picture would be incomplete.
							ESTHER A. BENNION.
April 10, 1881.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

CONTINUED.

	In Rome, once the Capital of the world, and
still celebrated for its art galleries and many
antiquities, Sister Eliza spent five days, travel-
ing with a guide who was a lecturer and pro-
fessor of Archaeology, which was of great bene-
fit to her. In this grand old city she visited,
among other places of special interest, the Vati-
can Palace, residence of the Pope. Our young
people may read a true and interesting descrip-
tion of this magnificent palace in the "Corres-
pondence of the Palestine Tourists." Among
other remarkable places visited in Rome, she
mentions the Cemetery of the Capuchins, where
she saw "millions of human bones assorted and
arranged, some in arches,* others symmetrically
formed into niches, where other bodies were
placed in a reclining position;* some of these
arches were crowned with severel rows of
skulls.* Everything, the chandeliers, candle-
sticks, etc., were made of bones." After care-
fully going over the most noted places and cu-
riosities of Rome, the party left for Naples,
arriving Jan. 25, where they visited Hercula-
neum and Pompeii, and a portion of the party
ascended Mt. Vesuvius; Sister Eliza tells us her
"ambition was satisfied with excellent views of
this natural wonder at a lower point." She
styles Naples "a city of pomp and beggary."

[Column 2]
	From Naples the party went by rail to
Brindisi, from there by steamer to Corfu, an
island belonging to Greece. Sister Eliza says
the condition of many of the Grecian women
living in the country is that of "beasts of bur-
den. From Corfu the party embarked at mid-
night, Feb. 2, on an Austrian Steamer, Saturno,
and reached "Alexandria on the morning of
the 6th. She says the voyage was delightful.
On board the Steamer, she wrote a poem en-
titled "Sunrise on the Mediterranean," from
which we make an extract:

"We mounted Saturno's deck to see
	A grand, magnificent scene—
The rising sun in its majesty,
Diffusing its goldeu sheen.

"A charming precursor first appeared,
	In volumes of golden rays,
Increasing their splendor till all aronnd
	The horizon seemed to blaze.
*		*		*		*		*
"The sparkling waves of the sea below,
	The blazoning over head,
The horizon wrapped in a buruing glow,
A thrilling enchantment spread."

	No doubt such a woman as Sister Eliza
would have many peculiar feelings and thoughts
in crossing the Mediterranean, so connected
with the life of Jesus and the Apostles. It
must have been a great satisfaction to one of
her religious nature to visit the Holy Land.
In Alexandria she began to feel that every-
thing was foreign, though the perfect "medley
of nations, religions, costumes, colors and dia-
lects," with the curious appearance of the city
and its surroundings made it specially inter-
esting.
	The next place of note was Cairo. Here
she saw the Khedive and many places of Scrip-
tural interest. From Cairo they went to Suez,
via the Red Sea, then back to Ismalia by rail-
way where they took steamer for Port Said.
From thence on board the Vesta of the Aus-
trian Lloyd line of steamers, and anchored off
the coast of Jaffa: At Joppa they commenced
tent life,after the Eastern manner, and traveled
with pack animals and on the backs of don-
keys, etc. Sister Eliza walked some distance
to see the "house of one Simon, a Tanner, sit-
uated by the sea side." Here was this veteran
woman, wife of the Latter-day Prophet, in the
country of sacred story, wandering through
groves of lemon and orange trees, treading on
"consecrated ground," where once trod our
blessed Savior and his Apostles, and where the
charm of his presence lingers still. She trav-
eled over the "beautiful plains of Sharon, and
encamped at night at the entrance of the val-
ley of Ajelon." Next day they rode through
the valley, and journeying on through those
world-famous places, they arrived in due time
at Jerusalem, where they visited the Church
of the Holy Sepulchre, and in the vicinity, the
Pools of Solomon, the Tomb of Rachel, Beth-
lehem, the Dead Sea, Jordan River, Gilgal,
Jericho, Bethany, etc. In Jerusalem Sister
Eliza seems to have been in a poetic mood;
"The Dead Sea—a Monument" was written
there. The poem opens thus:

"Though 'dead,' it is a living monument.
'Tis peerless, archless, towerless, and though
Devoid of every architectural
Embellishment, it justly claims to be
The prince of monuments in Palestine."

	It has been truly said by a modern author,
Sister Eliza possessed the Hebraic genius of in-
spiration, and no doubt this was fully aroused
by the subjects which presented themselves
during her journey over that memorable Jew-
ish land. Her prophetic vision opened to the
future, the re-building of Jerusalem, and con-
templated its coming glory in striking compar-
ison with the past. In fact, her soul seems to
have been wonderfully wrought upon, and as a
daughter of the House of David, of the royal
line, she bursts forth in song and apostrophizes

[Column 3]
Jerusalem. After speaking of its departed
glory, its historic name and character, its
wealth, its fame and grandeur, the curse under
which it had rested, etc., etc., she prophecies of
its future magnificence, and says:

"Thy sun has not forever set—
	God has a great design,
And will fulfil his purpose yet,
	Concerning Palestine.
The appointed hour will surely come,
	According to his will,
For God with faithful Abraham
	His covenants to fulfil.
*		*		*		*		*
"Thy walls shall be of precious stones,
	Thy gates of richest pearl;
And on thy tow'ring battlements
Shall sacred banners furl."
*		*		*		*		*

	There was something in Sister Eliza's visit-
ing Palestine not apparent to the careless ob-
server, and it was in fulfilment of prophecy.
Her tour through the Holy Land was a mission,
and she had the spirit of it, as one ever does
when called to carry out some sublime purpose
pertaining to the latter-day work.
			To be continued.


CHARITY—HOW DEFINED.

	Being told in Holy Writ that Faith, Hope
and Charity are the fundamental principles of
the Gospel, and that the greatest of these is
Charity, we find it quite requisite to under-
stand its true definition. And especially when
we measure ourselves by the pattern our Savior
has given to become qualified for the Celestial
kingdom. We naturally suppose Charity to
consist in giving of our goods to the needy; but
we begin to feel that we are mistaken, when
we read St. Paul's version as given in 1st Cor.,
13th chapter and 3d verse. He says: "And
though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor,
and though I give my body to be burned, and
have not Charity, it profiteth me nothing." It
seems, then, there is a way of performing these
duties without the Gospel, for instance, the
law of Moses may be kept with a vengeance; a
man may return an injury filled with hatred
and revenge, and at the same time be keeping
the law of Moses. But the higher law, this
law of our Savior, cannot be kept in this way.
To be acceptable to God, our Charity must be
given in love and humility, or it is as the
preacher saith, "vanity of vanities."
	Our Savior looked upon the Pharisees (who
sounded a trumpet before giving alms) in the
same light, because they sought the praise of
man and were destitute of genuine love for
their fellow-man, who was made in the image
of his Maker.
	We learn from this that our duties are not
acceptable to God, our Father, unless per-
formed in the true spirit of the Gospel of Christ,
which is love; as we also read in the Book of
Doctrine and Covenants, page 387, verse 41,
requires love unfeigned; also in Galatians, 6th
chapter and 7th verse, the Apostle says, "Be
not deceived; God is not mocked; for whatso-
ever a man soweth, that shall he also reap.
For he that soweth to the flesh shall reap cor-
ruption; but he that soweth to the spirit shall
reap life everlasting." Accordingly, true
Charity is the love which Jesus had when He
cried with a loud voice, "Father, forgive them,
for they know not what they do." Also Ste-
phen, when stoned to death, cried out, saying:
"Lord, lay not this sin to their charge;" and
when he had said this he fell asleep. He knew
that an evil spirit had enraged them and
blinded their eyes. When we become fully ac-
quainted with the power that a wicked spirit
has upon the mind, will we not have fervent
Charity for our Father's family? I believe
our mission to earth is to become acquainted
with both the evil and the good.
						M. E. KIMBALL,


188	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY,	—	MAY 15, 1881.


WOMEN STORING GRAIN.

	It is a well known fact that the women in Zion
are laying up wheat against a day of need. This
benevolent enterprise was commenced in the
fall of 1876, and from that time until the present
the sisters in their various organizations have
felt it both a duty and a privilege to donate and
take care of grain. All those who have read our
little paper will remember the editorial in Octo-
ber 15, 1876, which was written according to offi-
cial instructions on this subject.
	At the Jubilee Conference the sisters agreed
by vote to loan the wheat—but the Bishops were
to be the responsible parties in the affair, and re-
ceipts given for wheat loaned were to have the
signature of the Bishop of the respective local-
ity. It was woman's part of the blessing of the
poor in the Jubilee year, and the same quantity
of wheat was to be returned again into the pos-
session of those who had charge of it.
Now, the question has been sprung, "Are the
sisters to keep on lending the wheat? and, Can
they have so much on the bushel for lending it,
as the farmers do who are in the habit of lending
to each other?" No such counsel has been given.
Were the Saints to pursue this course, the
wheat might be lent out just at the time when
some unforeseen need might arise, and the bread
stuff be wanted for the emergency.
	The wheat was to be kept stored up, until it
was called for by the presiding authority of the
Church, and it was not proposed to traffic in it.
Exigencies may require it sometimes to be used
or lent, but in all cases it must be regulated by
presiding authority.
	It certainly is a great labor, and will be more
so as the quantity of grain stored increases year
after year; but the way will open for the sisters
to fill this important mission, if they persevere
and do not become weary in well doing. Al-
ready storehouses and bins have been built in
nearly all the settlements, and others are mak-
ing efforts to erect suitable buildings for the
same purpose. It was an original idea, to be
sure, that women should store grain, but they
have succeeded in accomplishing a great deal, by
littles, and much remains to be done in the fu-
ture. In the meantime, take care of that which
you have, and add to it all that you consistently
can, instead of disposing of it in any other ways.
Let us not relax our efforts in this laudable un-
dertaking, for assuredly the day is coming when
wheat will be more precious than gold. It is
really something unknown in the past history of
nations, for women to be engaged in preparation
for famine, but this mission has been given to
the sisters in this day and age, and it is no doubt
for a wise purpose. There is every prospect for a
bountiful harvest this year, and let the sisters,
those who labor for Zion and her interests at
home, redouble their exertions to increase the
quantity of wheat in the women's storehouses.


OUR LITTLE PAPER.

	The WOMAN'S EXPONENT has now completed
the ninth year of its mission. During that time
it has visited thousands of homes in America,
Europe, Asia and the islands of the seas.
Wherever it has gone we trust good seed has
been sown, for its aim has been to inculcate cor-
rect principles, to promote the growth of educa-
tion among all classes, and aid in the onward
march of progression. Woman's mission is di-
verse from that of man; she has not been called,
except in rare instances, to go out among the na-
tions to preach the Gospel, but by the aid of the
pen many of the sex have borne strong and ear-
nest testimonies of individual and general exper-
ience, which are recorded in the columns of this
little paper, and will stand as a witness of the
work of reformation which the time and season
seem to demand—she is thus enabled to address
thousands at once, instead of a small audience.
The labors of women in various organizations are
here justly represented. The rights of women
to a legitimate place in all the departments of
life, political and social, are discussed, as its
motto truthfully declares—"The Rights of the
women of Zion, and the rights of the women of
all nations." Thus let woman speak for herself
to the heart of her sister-woman everywhere,
strengthening the weak and comforting the sor-
rowful, and let the EXPONENT still be a messen-
ger of truth and light, practically sustained by
actual effort, that it may be a blessing in the fu-
ture as it has been in the past to the mother in
her home, to the Elders in their labors abroad,
and in many a nook and in homes, where no
Elder could gain admittance.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE "Ogden Herald" comes to us regularly as
an exchange, and we are well pleased with its
appearance and contents. It was issued first
May 7, and we have no doubt of its success as
the newspaper of Weber Co. Its editor, John
Nicholson, Esq., has had considerable experience
in journalism, and will no doubt be able to make
the "Herald" lively, newsy and interesting. We
welcome its appearance gladly, and hope it "may
live long and prosper."

	WE have received several new exchanges with-
in the last few months, nearly all favoring wo-
man suffrage, some edited by men, some by
ladies. The "Colorado Antelope," published at
Denver, is a woman's paper, though one would
scarcely guess it by the name. The editorial de-
partment is very ably conducted by Mrs. C. M.
Churchill, who seems to be almost too liberal in
her views towards "Mormons" to please those
who are so anxious to destroy the peace and
happiness of the founders of Utah. Mrs.
Churchill is certainly a woman of stamina, and
does not stand in fear of Madame Grundy. Suc-
cess to the "Antelope!" We are very proud
of it.

	The "Western Woman's Journal" comes to us
from Lincoln, Neb., fresh and new, in monthly
magazine form, containing sixteen pages. It is
full of interesting matter. Its motto that of
Neb.—"Equality before the Law," also, "An Ar-
istocracy of Sex is Repugnant to a Republic."
It is edited by Erasmus M. Cornell, but has
several ladies on the staff as Editorial Contrib-
utors.

	"The New Era," "The Ægis," "The Scientific
Man," "The Western Light," "The American
Sentry,"—all welcome, and all advocating their
respective views on popular questions, all, no
doubt, promoting an increase of enlightened
thought in this busy, work-a-day world.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	NOW is the time to subscribe for Volume Ten
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. Let woman sus-
tain the voice of woman in the press.

	SISTER Lucy A. Johnson, of Kanab, writes to
"Sister Eliza" that the P. A. had a party on the
9th ult. They have 158 names enrolled, with
130 average attendance. The R. S. and Y. L.
M. I. A., as well as the Primary, are in a pros-
perous condition.

	MEDICAL LECTURE.—For the benefit of a
medical student about to graduate at Ann Arbor,
Dr. Romania B. Pratt will give a lecture, which
will be a continuation of the one given in the
Theatre some time ago. It will probably take
place in the Social Hall on Tuesday afternoon,
May 24, exclusively for ladies.

	BY private letter to President E. R. Snow
Smith, from Mrs. Wilmirth East, we learn that
the Relief Societies in the Eastern Arizona Stake
of Zion are in a flourishing condition, under the
presidency of Sister East. She states there are
five organized wards, with sufficient members to
admit of Primary organizations, which they ex-
pect will be attended to this coming summer un-
der the direction of Pres. Jesse N. Smith.

	AT the 20th Ward P. A. Anniversary, held
on the 19th ult., there were a variety of things
on exhibition which have been made for the
Children's Fair, which will be held in S. L. City
sometime in September next. These articles
were all of the children's manufacture, neatly
executed, and certainly the little folks deserve
encouragement. There were baskets and vases
of flowers made of wool and of wax, many pretty
varieties; also mats, tidies, pincushions, pillow-
cases, dolls dressed and mottoes worked, all by
the little girls. There was a handsome bracket
made by a little boy, and several other pieces of
work well finished. The exercises were well ar-
ranged. Miss Celia Sharp recited "Whistling
in Heaven," Misses Emily Sharp and May
Mitchell sang "The Lover and the Bird," Master
Owen read "Address to Little Boys," Kate
Romney recited "Father, now the day is past,"
Misses Georgiana Toone and Nettie Gibson sang
"Little Sunshine," Belle Solomon, essay on
"Obedience," Masters Wm. Phillips and John
Sharp dialogue about a pocket book, song, Mary
Romney, "The Child's Unfinished Prayer,"
reading, Master Knight, "Obedience to Parents,"
Ida Sansome "Robin's Complaint," Eliza Knight
"Jane's Evening Prayer," organ solo, Emma
Lyon, dialogue by six little girls, essay on "Good
Behavior," Alice Phillips, Master Joseph Decker
sang "Trust the Children, Never Doubt Them,"
he is a very little fellow, and performed his
part admirably, and he has a sweet, rich voice;
Maggie Calhoun recited "Little Children may
be Useful," Georgiana Toone recited "The Mar-
tyrdom of the Prophet," by Mrs. M. J. Tanner;
there were other songs, recitations and essays
and singing by the Association, all well rendered.
Miss Kate Miller presided at the organ during
the entire afternoon. Everything was done
well and in order, and reflects great credit upon
all who took part in the arrangements.


CHILDREN'S FAIR.

	In September there will be a Children's Fair
held in this city, under the auspices of the Presi-
dency of the Primary Associations of Salt Lake
Stake. The Presidents of the different branches
in this Stake are expected to take an active part
in aiding to make the FAIR a success. All kinds
of articles, useful and ornamental that can possi-
bly be made by the little folks, they should be
encouraged in making. There is no doubt it will


be a grand affair. The Fair at Farmington last
year surpassed anything which had been antici-
pated, but we expect this will be much larger as
the children have already had some few lessons
in getting up bazars in their respective wards.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 189


OBITUARY.

	Died in Centerville, April 16, 1881, Mrs. Re-
becca Chandler Ford. Deceased was born in
Great Grand, Huntingtonshire, England, Dec.
23, 1814, was the daughter of Elizabeth and
William Chandler. June 23, 1834, was united
in marriage to John Ford. In 1850 she was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, and in 1854 emigrated with her hus-
band and family to Salt Lake City, where she
passed through various scenes of privation and
trial, but was ever firm and steadfast in her
faith. She came to Centerville in 1855, and has
resided here ever since.
	Sister Ford had eleven children, seven of whom
are living, three daughters and four sons. She
leaves quite a posterity upon the earth, seven
children and twenty-eight grandchildren. She
was an affectionate wife and an exemplary
mother; her loss is keenly felt. Her sickness
lasted twenty-four days and her sufferings were
great, all of which she bore with patience. She
frequently spoke of death, but always with
calmness and resignation. Sister Ford was in
the best sense of the word a woman of God. Her
life has been faithfully devoted to the advance-
ment of his kingdom and doing good to her
brethren and sisters. Her faith in the princi-
ples she had espoused was unbounded, and her
fondest hope and desire was that her children
should ever revere, sustain, uphold and advocate
Mormonism. She was of a gentle disposition,
and great faith. Was a member of the Relief
Society of the Centerville Ward; has always
been active, energetic, even zealous in the per-
formance of every duty pertaining to the relief
of the poor and the needy, the orphan and the
fatherless. She has lived and died the life of a
true Latter-day Saint, and has passed away in
glorious hope of a part in the first resurrection.
She has joined the hosts of friends behind the
vail who are looking forward to a re-union with
those who remain. She will be deeply mourned
by her posterity and many friends and acquain-
tances, and her memory will be proudly cher-
ished by those who knew her many virtues, her
loving disposition and honorable life.

"Vain are the trophies wealth can give—
	Her memory needs no sculptured art;
She's left a name, her virtues live
	Like shining tablets on the heart,"

						KATE M. CHASE.

	DIED, at Hyde Park, Cache Co., April 1, 1881,
Mary Elizabeth, daughter of William and Susie
Hawks, aged 1 year and 27 days.

Oh, how sad to part with our dear one,
	Little Mary, so gentle and sweet,
In all her sufferings so patient,
	So loving, angelic and meek.

								M. L. W.


ON MARRIAGE.

	I have long wished to write something to the
young readers of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. Al-
though I am a long way from you, and may
never be permitted to greet you in your meet-
ings, or your homes, yet I have an ardent desire
to talk a little to you, and give you some advice
upon obedience to parents, especially in refer-
ence to marriage, which is the turning era in the
life of the young, and much depends upon a wise
choice, a union of purpose, and where there is


need of trust and strength to guide. I would
say to my young brothers and sisters, with the
experience of forty years I have never known
one happy marriage that was contracted in oppo-
sition to parents (that were parents in the true
sense of the term). No doubt there have been
rare instances where parents have wished, nay
commanded their children to marry persons
when their only motive was money, or aggrand-
izement, but such cases are exceptional indeed.
Let me say something more to you, be ye not
unequally yoked together with unbelievers, for
it is not right in the sight of your Father in
Heaven.
	Oh, that I had the voice of an angel,that would
penetrate to every ear and every heart of the
young people of the world, and more especially
those in Zion, born heirs to the Holy Priesthood.
Nev[-]r marry against your parents' wishes and
sanction; if you do, you will live to heave the re-
gretful sigh and to lament in bitterness your dis-
obedience. Remember what I tell you is truth.
You want first to seek God and his favor, then you
will be led to do right and guided securely in all
things. I will tell you some of my experience.
When I first heard the Gospel I was thirteen
years of age; young, innocent and ambitious. I
believed it. Do you think I embraced it? No, I
did not; my pride forbade me to give up the
honors and popularity of the world, and follow
that despised people called "Mormons." Do
you suppose I would acknowledge then that I
believed "Mormonism?" No. But I have lived
to heave the regretful sigh, to repent in dust and
ashes my pride. What is my pnnishment now,
think you? It is to look back upon a lost life,
and to rep[-]at over and over again the saddest
words that e'er were said, "It might have been."
Would to God you could realize it as I do, with-
out the terrible experience!
	My dear young brothers and sisters, live the
religion of your fathers and mothers, and you
will never be sorry, or regret it when you are
old. I know that the Latter-day Gospel is true,
and if you receive and retain it, you will be
saved in the Celestial kingdom. You will be
happy here and hereafter. If you would but
hearken unto the commandment, obey your
parents in all things, for that is well pleasing
unto your Father in Heaven, you will never re-
gret it in this life nor in the life to come. I be-
seech you, in the name of Jesus, as one who has
suffered from the folly of disobedience, to heark-
en unto what I have written. I want your
prayers in my behalf, that I may yet be permit-
ted to gather with the Saints. I am here in the
midst of unbelievers, those who are full of preju-
dice, and all manner of lies are circulated against
the Saints. I never have an opportunity of even
seeing an Elder. The EXPONENT is a great
comfort and blessing to me. My mother and
myself are the only persons that believe in the
Latter-day work in this section of the States.
Our families and relatives are all opposed to us,
yet our faith is strong.
				Yours truly,
									TRUTH.


THE SISTERS AT ORDERVILLE.

	Sisters E. R. S. Smith and Zina D. Young, ac-
companied by Sister Minerva Snow of St. George,
visited Orderville, arriving on the 16th of Feb-
ruary, and stayed until the 21st; during which
time they held five meetings, organized three
Primary Associations, and said a great many in-
structive and encouraging things to the people.
We are truly thankful for the visit of our sisters
and for the Primary Associations which they
organized. We have long felt the need of some
means of getting our children more completely
under our control. Their visit has been benefi-


cial also in the way of awaking the sisters of the
Relief Societies to a sense of their duties as
Mothers in Israel and helpmeets to man in his
great work of saving souls. Our children will
long remember the kind words of Sisters Eliza
and Zina, and we all hope to meet them soon
again.
			LOUISA C. SPENCER, Pres't R. S.
			HANNAH C. HOYT, Sec'y.


AMANDA SMITH.

[CONTINUED.]

	"After disposing of the dead the best that we
could, we commended their bodies to God and
felt that He would take care of them, and of
those whose lives were spared. I had plenty to
do to take care of my little orphaned children,
and could not stop to think or dwell upon the
awful occurrence. My poor, wounded boy de-
manded coustant care, and for three months I
never left him for a moment night or day. The
next day after the massacre, the mob came back
and told us we must leave the State, or they
would kill us all. It was cold weather; they had
taken away our horses and robbed us of our
clothing; the men who had survived the battle
were wounded; our people in other parts of the
State were passing through similar persecutions,
and we knew not what to do.
	"I told them they might kill me and my chil-
dren in welcome. They sent to us messages
from time to time, that "If we did not leave the
State they would come and make a breakfast of
us." We sisters used to have little prayer meet-
ings, and we had mighty faith; the power of
God was manifested in the healing of the sick
and wounded. The mob told us we must stop
these meetings, if we did not they would kill
every man, woman and child. We were quiet
and did not trouble any one. We got our own
wood, we did our own milling, but in spite of all
our efforts to be at peace, they would not allow
us to remain in the State of Missouri. I ar-
ranged everything, fixed up my poor, wounded
boy, and on the first day of February started,
without any money, on my journey towards the
State of Illinois; I drove my own team and slept
out of doors. I had four small children, and we
suffered very much from cold, hunger and fa-
tigue; and for what? For our religion! In this
boasted land of liberty the edict went forth, deny
your faith, or die. I recollect some of the names
of the men who took part in this scene of blood-
shed and slaughter. There were two brothers
named Comstock, Wm. Mann, Benjamin Ash-
ley, Robert White, and one by the name of
Rogers, who took an old scythe and cut an aged
brother, who had been a revolutionary soldier,
all to pieces."
	"I leave it to this honorable government to
decide what my damages are. My husband
and son killed, another wounded nigh unto
death—for I verily believe only the power of
the living God preserved him—stripped of all
that could make life desirable, my horses, my
goods, and even my pocket book taken from me—
the hundredth part of my sufferings can never
be told in words; but there is One above Who
knows all things, and into whose hands I commit
my cause.
	"I once asked one of the mob what they intend-
ed when they came upon our camp; he answered
they intended to kill everything that breathed.
I felt the loss of my husband greatly, but re-
joiced that he died a martyr to the cause of
truth, instead of having apostatized. He went
full of faith and in hope of a glorious resurrec-
tion. As for myself, I had unshaken confidence
in God through it all. I had been personally ac-
quainted with the Prophet Joseph, and knew
him to be a man of God, knew his works and
his unblemished character, and this knowledge
buoyed me up under every trial and privation.
The journey to Illinois was a hard one, but the
Lord was with me in passing through those try-
ing scenes. In Quincy, Ill., I found friends who
took me in and supplied my wants for a season.
As soon as I could I commenced teaching school,
which brought me in means sufficient to supply
the wants of my family
	"In the year 1839 I married again, to a man
bearing the same name as my deceased husband
(Warren Smith), though they were not in the
least related. He was also a blacksmith, and
our circumstances were prosperous. We went
to live in Nauvoo, and remained there until
after the exodus. By this marriage I had three
children, Amanda Malvina, who died in Nauvoo,


at the age of nine months; also Warren Barnes
and Sarah Marinda, who are still living, the
former at Lehi, the latter at Hyde Park.
	"I remember accurately the occurrences that
transpired in Nauvoo. The dreadful death of
the Prophet and Patriarch, the gloom that hung
over the fated city, and the heavy grief and sad-
ness that rested upon the people who so truly
loved them.
	"I enjoyed the privilege of seeing the Temple
finished, and of receiving therein the blessing
of holy ordinances. Willard, my first-born son,
also had his endowments in that Temple, and
came out among the first who left there; was
one of the Mormon Battalion, who were called
to go to Mexico while en route to find a resting-
place for the Saints.


190	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RELIEF  SOCIETY REPORT.

FAVORSHAM, ENGLAND.

	Extract from a letter received by Secretary S.
M. Kimball,  from  Elder  Edward King, Kent,
England:

	"The  Favorsham  Relief  Society is  a live in-
stitution, its  members  are  energetic and trying
to live as becomes Latter-day Saints;  the Society
consists of twenty officers and members.  The
sisters have done a good work the past winter in
hunting up and relieving the poor.  The official
members  visit  among  the  Saints,  instructing
them  to  be  prayerful and live near to God, ac-
cording to the knowledge they have received.
	On the 21st ult. the Society held a semi-annual
Conference;  much  of  the  time  was occupied 
with reports, a  synopsis  of which  was  sent to
the London  Conference.   The  President, Sister
Ann Cornford, is a woman  worthy  of  the  confi-
dential  support  of  her  sisters  in Zion.  At the
close of the  afternoon meeting a social tea, pro-
vided by the President and her Counselors, was
enjoyed, and in the evening  the  Relief Society 
held a joint session with the Priesthood of Fav-
orsham  Branch, Brother  J. A. Jennings and I
taking part.   Bro. Jennings is doing well in the 
ministry; I can truly  say the Spirit of the Lord
was with us on this occasion, and I feel sure that
the result of the meeting will be increased unity
among the Saints here.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

KANAB STAKE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the R. S. of
Kanab Stake convened in the Kanab School
House March 11, 1881, Counselor Harriet
Bunting presiding. Besides the presidents of
the various wards, we were privileged with the
presence of Apostles F. M. Lyman and John
Henry Smith, and a number of the leading
brethren of the Stake.
	Meeting opened by singing "Once more we
come before Thee now." Prayer by Coun.
Lucy A. Johnson. Sang, "O awake, my slum-
bering minstrel." The presidents of the sev-
eral wards gave good verbal reports; said their
societies were prospering, the sisters were doing
their duty, trying to live their religion, and
helping one another. Pres. H. Bunting felt
pleased in having the presence of Apostles Ly-
man and Smith, and so many of the brethren;
hoped that we would be benefitted by their
counsel. Presidents H. E. Spencer, James L.
Bunting and Bishop W. D. Johnson, Jun.,
gave the sisters some very wise counsel, encour-
aged them to good works and to live the lives
of Latter-day Saints.
	Apostle J. H. Smith said, "I have listened
with pleasure to the remarks of the sisters. It
is a matter of great interest to meet with those
who are laboring for the upbuilding of society.
The mission of woman is one of the greatest
and noblest on earth. She has much to do in
fashioning and framing the minds of men. To
a great extent she molds the minds of our poli-
ticians and statesmen. She is constantly in
the presence of her children, and what woman
makes up her mind that her cdildren shall be,
to a great extent they will be; and as she de-

[Column 2]
termines, so shall society, communities and na-
tions be. If the women of the Latter-day
Saints block the wheels of Progress, it is a hard
struggle for the men; on the other hand, if
they determine that their sons and daughters
shall assist in the consummation of the great
and glorious work of the latter days, it is in
their power to fit and prepare them for that
work. How careful should our daughters be
trained, that they may carry with them in
their future life every virtue of their mother.
Show me a mother that is neat and orderly,
and I will show you a race of sons and daugh-
ters who will follow her example. Whatever
mark I may make in life, I owe that to my
mother. Sisters, so train your daughters, that
should they be in the company of ladies of the
outside world, they can give a reason for the
hope that is within them. Never allow them
to go from home without you know where they
are and what company they keep. Teach them
the nature of their organization. Teach them
so that they would prefer to be broken at the
rack than that their pure bodies should be pol-
luted; and the fathers teach the boys the same.
If you do this you will be blessed in your old
age, and your children will be your pride and
glory. They will grow up around you as
bright buds and blossoms. If you take the op-
posite course they will leave you, and your sor-
row will be great. It is a source of pleasure
to me that the sisters are doing much good.
Let us wear homemade clothing; make your-
selves beautiful with the workmanship of your
own hands. Adorn your minds with intelli-
gence—that is the principle we are after. I
would rather have true knowledge and true
science than all the riches of this world."
	Apostle F. M. Lyman said: "The remarks of
the sisters are good; if you are diligent and put
them in practice they will be a benefit to you.
It is well for the sisters and brethren to labor
together in the training of their children. It
is true that the molding of the destinies of
men depend very much on the mother; yet I
hold that it is a great thing for the children to
have a good father, and for the sisters to have
a good husband. If there are two or three
wives, he should be a very good man. Still, I
admit that a great responsibility rests on moth-
ers. We should see that our wives and daugh-
ters are intelligent, for we cannot expect intel-
ligent children from ignorant mothers. The
virtue of woman should be a body guard to
her. She should so carry the impress of that
virtue on her countenance, that her very pres-
ence could quell the rudest of men; and
guarded by that virtue she could travel around
the world and be sacred from insult among the
most base."
	The Apostles also gave much good counsel
to the brethren.
	Pres. Bunting felt the time had been well
spent. Wished the sisters to treasure up the
good counsel they had received and profit
thereby. Conference adjourned for three
months, to be held at Mt. Carmel. Sang, "Now
let us rejoice in the day of salvation." Dis-
missed by Apostle F. M. Lyman.

PAROWAN.

	The first yearly Conference of the Parowan
Stake was held in Cedar City Feb. 13, 1881,
President Ellen W. Lunt presiding. After
opening exercises; minutes of previous Confer-
ence were read by the Stake Secretary, also sta-
tistical and financial reports from the different
branch societies. The representatives gave
very encouraging verbal reports of their prog-
ress, also very good counsel and much good
general instruction.
	Elder Thomas Durham spoke in a very in-
teresting manner on the subject of Music.
Hoped to see the time when it would be more
extensively cultivated in all our institutions.

[Column 3]
	President Henry Lunt and Bishop C. J.
Arthur said they were greatly pleased to hear
and see the marked improvement our sisters
were making, and gave us some very excellent
instructions. Referred to the exhibitions
given by the Primary Associations as being
very pleasing and conducive of much good.
Urged the sisters to subscribe more liberally
for the EXPONENT.
	Statistical and Financial report for the Stake
R. S., for the year ending Feb. 12, 1881.
	Statistical: Teachers, 51; members, 326: total
officers and members, 377; meetings held, 86;
average attendance, 72; subscribers for EXPO-
NENT, 16.
	Financial: On hand at date of last report,
$43.05; Property, $1,834.25 1/2; wheat, 116 1/2 bu.
Receipts, cash, $85.60; property, $118.80; wheat,
40 bu. Disbursements: poor, cash, $49.37;
property, $48.50; emigration, cash, $21.30;
Temple, cash, $36.75; property, $32.25; home
industries, $14.25; building purposes, cash;
$69.40; property, $10; on hand at present date,
cash, $40.50; property, $1,945.56; wheat, 377
bu., 32 lb.

JANE P. MACKLEPRANG, Cor. Sec'y.

CANTERBURY, NEW ZEALAND.

	EDITOR EXPONENT:—I take great pleasure
in handing you a report of the Canterbury
Relief Society. Although we are few in num-
ber, and away, yes, so very far away from head
quarters, and surrounded by the wicked world,
who point the finger of scorn at us and cast
our names out as evil, yet for all that we feel
to go ahead and do the best we can, and help
all we know how, and be honest and true to
God, our religion and ourselves, and by thus
doing, and working to gain the reward that is
promised to the faithful.
	The seventeenth monthly meeting of the
Canterbury Relief Society was held in the
house of Sister Johanna Larson, March 7, 1881.
After the usual opening exercises, the minutes
of last meeting were read and accepted. There
was a good attendance. Bro. N. H. Groes-
beck, the missionary from Utah was present,
from whom we received some valuable instruc-
tions. The sisters here are at all times on hand
to do what is required of them for the pro-
gression of the work in this land and the build-
ing up of Zion.
	Our Statistical and Financial report for the
quarter ending March 7, is as follow: Mem-
bers, 12; officers and members, 14; meetings
held last quarter, 3; average attendance, 8;
WOMAM'S EXPONENT taken, 3.
	Financial: On hand December 6, cash, £3,
18s. 3d; receipts last quarter, 18s. 3d; dis-
bursed to the poor, cash, 7s; missionary, cash,
£1. 4s. 3d; cash for clothing for missionaries,
£2. 7s; on hand March 26, cash, 18s. 3d.
	Wishing success to the EXPONENT,
		Respectfully,
				JOHANNA LARSON, Pres't.
				ELIDA LARSON, Sec'y.

TOOELE.

	The Conference of Relief Societies, Y. L.
M. I. A. and P. A. of Tooele Stake was held
in Tooele City March 12 and 13, 1881, Mrs.
M. A. Hunter presiding. Visitors from Salt
Lake City, Sisters P. L. Kimball, M. I. Horne,
S. M. Heywood and R. B. Pratt. The Con-
ference was conducted as usual, except there
were no reports, the Secretary being absent.
	After usual opening exercises—singing, and
prayer by Bishop Atkins—Sisters Kimball,
Horne and Heywood each addressed the sisters,
giving motherly and encouraging counsel, ex-
horting them to become intelligent on all sub-
jects and seek to fulfil every duty and obliga-
tion in life, and to beware of evil influences.
Referred to the great and good work being


done in the various organizations towards the
higher education of woman. Dr. R. B. Pratt
also made some excellent remarks, and Bishop
Atkins said he had been edified by the instruc-
tions of the sisters.
	In the afternoon the Primary Associations
held their Conference, which was well attended
by children and parents, Mrs. R. Williams
presiding. Reports and minutes were read by
the Secretary, Mrs. E. Broomhead. The Presi-
dent asked the children questions, which they
answered promptly. Sister Heywood then
asked them some questions, and gave them
some very good advice as to the course they
should pursue in order to become great and
good. Sister Kimball cautioned the children
never to neglect their meetings, to be obedient
to parents and teachers, and always speak the
truth. Sister Horne said she could see a
marked improvement in the children since they
had been organized; told them not to use to-
bacco, nor drink liquor of any kind, but be
orderly and punctual and honor their parents.
Spoke upon faith, and gave some illustrations
by telling them circumstances of the power of
God manifested in healing the sick. Dr. Pratt
also occupied a few minutes in speaking to the
children.
	The next morning was very stormy, but the
sisters visited the Sunday School, and after the
exercises were over addressed the children.
In the afternoon the Young Ladies’ Conference
convened. After the Sacrament was adminis-
tered, the reports were read by Secretary Miss
E. Broomhead, and Mrs. Ann Tate, President
of the Y. L. M. I. A. Tooele Stake, made some
introductory remarks. Tooele City Associa-
tion was represented by Miss Primrose Waters.
Sisters Heywood, Pratt, Kimball and Horne
made suitable remarks to the young. Presi-
dent H. J. Grant commented most favorably
upon the good teaching of the sisters, and said
if we could practise these good instructions in
our lives, it would be worth a great deal. Tes-
tified to the great influence young girls could
have over young men; said they could start a
reformation in morals and their labors would
not be in vain. Sister Tate said in conclusion
she felt thankful for the good instructions of
the sisters, and hoped they would sink deep
into every heart. Conference adjourned till
the middle of June; to be held in Grantsville.
Benediction by James Dunn.
							ANN TATE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 191


[Column 1]
TO THE GIRLS.

	EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—Although
young, and inexperienced in the art of com-
mitting my thoughts to paper, still, as a mem-
ber of the Church of which your valuable pa-
per is an able advocate, I feel it my privilege,
as well as my duty, to lend my aid, as far as I
am capable, towards sustaining everything that
tends to strengthen our cause. It is to the
young that I wish more particularly to speak,
as it is they who should be guarded the most
from the many snares that are laid for their
feet.
	I have often been led to reflect that our
young folks do not appreciate the many bless-
ings that are showered upon them. This is
true in many things, but I will mention but
one at present, which to me assumes gigantic
proportions when I look around and see the
evidences of their neglect. As a general rule,
the children born in these mountain districts
are strong and healthy dnring the early period
of their lives. This generally continues until
they get to the age when they think they must
enter “society;” and from this time until they
enter wedlock their lives are a round of gaiety
and pleasure; or so they generally esteem it at
the time, but after this, when they assume the
responsibilities of wife and motherhood, they

[Column 2]
reap the full reward of their folly. This is
more applicable to the girls, but when carried
to excess has a degenerating effect on both
sexes.
	About the first thing a girl thinks she must
do, before going out into society, is to encase
herself in a pair of stays, which every person
who knows anything of the human frame will
aver is most injurious. By this method she
succeeds in cramming her heart, lungs, liver,
etc., into as small a space as possible above her
waist, and her stomach, bowels, etc., below,
thus misplacing and injuring every internal
organ of her body, and laying the foundation
for many diseases in the future, that she little
dreams of now. I was told by an M. D. only
a few days ago that she had met with more fe-
male complaints in her little practice here, in
proportion to the population, than she had in
the old country; and she attributed it to danc-
ing and tight lacing.
	How often, girls, have you gone to a party
dressed, probably in much thinner clothes than
you are used to wearing every day, and very
likely in a condition that should have prompted
you to remain home and get rest and quiet?
How often have one and all of you danced till
you could hardly set one foot before the other,
and your clothes so wet you could almost
wring the perspiration from them? Nor does
the story end there. From the ball room out
she goes into the cold night air, with very
likely improper and insufficient wraps, and if
she is one of the fortunate ones who possesses a
lover, an hour or two is the least they can allow
for a confidential little chat, and this must take
place either at the gate or in a cold, perhaps
damp, room, for fear of disturbing the family,
Who can wonder that after such an ordeal, re-
peated so often, our girls lose their bright eyes,
rosy cheeks and elastic step, and become lan-
guid, hollow-eyed and sickly? You need not
start, girls, you know it is the truth in many
cases, and more or less in nearly all. I know
it is the truth, for I have been through the
mill and can see the folly of it now, and can
see where many, very many, of our sufferings
might be relieved if we would take proper
care of our bodies while they are developing
into womanhood. You may deem me radical
in my ideas, but experience, study and obser-
vation teach us a great many truths. I believe
recreation to be as necessary as food and drink
to the human being, but nature’s laws will
not be outraged without repaying tenfold the
insult offered to her dignity. It therefore be-
hooves us, my young sisters, to study her laws,
and for our own interests, as well as future
generations, to succumb to them.
								DIXIE.


[Column 1]
JESSE BURNS,
OR,
WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONTINUED.

	This was a terrible blow for Mary, who
scarcely knew how strong her hopes had been
until they were dashed to the ground. He
said he would take Nettie from her; it added a
terrible fear to her other distress. What means
he would use to accomplish his purpose she did
not know, and she lived in daily fear that the
child might be stolen. She consulted her
friends, who told her that if not divorced he
might claim her by law, but if divorced and
appointed as the child's guardian, he could not
take her in that way.
	She accordingly presented Jesse's letter to
the court and procured a divorce on his de-
mand. It seemed to her the only way to do,
she must give him a bill if he wanted it, even
though it broke every tendril of her heart

[Column 2]
asunder. She could not part with her child,
her youngest, her pet. What could Jesse do
with her, away off among strangers, with no
tender mother to care for her. She was a deli-
cate child, and many times Mary had watched
over her when death seemed very near, but,
putting all other considerations aside, the
mother love was strong, and she would never,
never part with her child. That decided what
she otherwise might have lingered over, and
the bill was procured which separated her for-
ever from Jesse. She had always loved him
with a pure and strong affection. She had
borne the separation with fortitude so long as
she thought she should see him again, and if
her heart sometimes failed and the time seemed
long, she would read his loving, hopeful letters
and try to think that perhaps he was doing for
the best; he was working for her and her chil-
dren, and a generous portion of this world's
goods was very alluring, yet she would rather
share his company with poorer prospects. But
he was lost to her now forever, and her heart
cried out in her loneliness and desolation and
refused to be comforted.
	She was cast adrift, without anchor or guide,
without hope or comfort, alone among stran-
gers; but she had her religion and her God.
She had no relatives in Salt Lake to lean upon,
she had left them all behind when she deter-
mined to follow the fortunes of the Church.
Father, mother, sisters and brothers—all were
left so far off they were as dead to her, seem-
ingly, as if the grass was growing over them.
They had plead with her to stay where she
could have home, friends and comforts, for
they felt as though she was going to her doom,
in leaving the dear home ties and family circle
forever. "And for what a fate?" said they; "to
suffer and perhaps perish in the wilderness, in
a strange land, among a strange people." The
Mormon Church was gathering from all na-
tions, and beyond their general belief in reli-
gious professions, they had no sympathy in
connection with her people, and they begged
Mary to stay with them a while, and if Jesse
would go, let him prepare a home before taking
her. She would not listen to them. Jesse was
her guide and God was her strength; she would
share his fate, whatever it might be. And
here she was, and Jesse had gone and left her
alone. He could accuse her of being false!
she, who had never thought of any other man
except as he comprised a part of the great
Father's family; she, whose every pulse had
beat for him; who had suffered toil, privation
and care patiently for his sake; who had
strengthened him in his weakness, and com-
forted him in his sorrow; the mother of his
children, the partner of his life. And he
could doubt her! could even accuse her of de-
siring to leave him that she might get another
husband. The thought itself was too hnmil-
iating, and the injustice of it smote her as with
rod of iron. He surely never would have been
so cruel had it not have been for Howard; he
could not have thought such things about her.
Howard had vowed vengeance when he left
her in his anger, and this was the means he
had taken—to part them by prejudicing Jesse’s’
mind against the people, which would make
him reluctant to return, and create jealousy
against Mary. He had succeeded too well,
and she felt that her heart and hopes were
crushed forever.
	Salt Lake, in those days, did not afford many
facilities for women to support themselves,
Mary had never learned the lesson of self-
helpfulness, and she was not fitted for hard
labor. A lady, no doubt kindly disposed, of-
fered to give Minnie employment as maid of
all work, and the Church held out its kindly
arms, making provision, through the Bishops,
for the poor. Minnie was not strong, and
Mary, who had been raised to be served and
not to be a servant, felt how great a change
had come into her life. She could not think of


her tender, graceful child, just budding into
womanhood, leaving her, she must have the
comfort of her child's presence, and the thought
of being dependent on the Church was indeed
dreadful.
			[To be Continued.]


192	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

DEAR EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I read your valuable paper with interest, and
many an article finds an echo in my heart;
and I often think, how often is our path
through this world of care and sorrow made
pleasant by an exchange of ideas, a kindly
word dropped here. a smile there, and a little
self-sacrificing to please others.
	As I muse this evening, my mind reflects
back just two years to-day. How vividly I
call to mind the kindness of my brothers and
sisters, which I hope I may never forget and
with your permission I will relate it—perhaps
it may bring comfort to some of my sisters
who are liable to pass through like circum-
stances, and make them feel they are surround-
ed by kind friends.
	Two years ago my husband was called to go
on a mission to Germany. The time for his
departure was drawing nigh. One day, while
busily engaged in preparations for his journey,
my thoughts and hands busy, at times I would
feel sad, and my aching heart would seem to
say, Oh, can I shoulder this responsibility—be
both a father and mother to my little ones?
But it was but for a moment; my thoughts
would ascend to my Heavenly Father, asking
Him to aid and assist me, and thanking Him
that we were counted worthy to help just a lit-
tle in the noble work. And in the ups and
downs of the past two years, I have found Him
a true friend and comforter. But I am forget-
ting my story. I was just ironing the last shirt,
when a brother stepped in and invited us to
supper at six o'clock punctually at his house.
I cheerfully accepted. At the appointed time
we were ready. My husband and I sat talking
a few minutes about his near departure, when
one of the children called out, "Oh, ma, the
band is coming to our house." Imagine our
surprise, as we stepped to the door, to see some
of the Stake Presidency, our Bishop and
Counselors, headed by the Martial Band.
Without ceremony we were told to follow, so
on we went, the band playing. As we drew
near the meeting house, on one side of the
street stood members of the Relief Society,
and on the other the Y. L. M. I. A., who
greeted us. Still we passed on, not knowing
where we were going, until we entered the
meeting house, where were two long tables
filled with the bounties of life, and surrounded
by our brothers and sisters. They seated us,
and after the blessing was asked told us to par-
take; but I was too full to eat. After supper
we spent the evening in dancing, recitations,
singing and speeches, and I have never expe-
rienced such a spirit of good feeling as was
there manifested, nor will I ever forget the
kindness shown us there; and in the past two
years it has often comforted me, for I felt I was
among friends, and they have since proven
themselves such.
	Oh, how little do the world know of the true
happiness of serving the living God, and try-
ing to live our most holy religion! God grant
when my husband returns our labors may be
accepted, and we will still go hand in hand re-
joicing in the great and grand work of the last
days.							ANNA.


"Living Links" and "Life Incidents," will
be concluded in the next issue.

	"The Wild Flowers of Deseret" will short-
-ly be issued from the Juvenile Inztructor Office.


LETTER.

DEAR AUNT EM:

	I have been reading an excellent paper on
the Higher Education of Women, which held
so high an ideal for us poor mortals to reach
in order to be truly intellectual, that I am al-
most tempted to say, I will write no more.
What few little waifs I have written shrink
out of sight in the broad blaze of such genius
as is possessed by Mesdames De Stael, Eliot and
Sands. My tiny buds of thought wither and
look unspeakably mean. But listen—Rea-
son speaks. Who read the giants of litera-
ture? The cultivated few. Who read the
daily, weekly, monthly papers? The thought-
less masses, of whom I am one. Shall I not
sit in the gates and point the way to the fair
temples above, because I cannot reach my weak
hands up to grasp the ponderous key? Must I
sit sullenly down and refuse to hold a helping
hand to aid the climber who, down, still far-
ther down than I, but feebly walks among the
rubbish and debris? Because, forsooth, I may
not ever reach the lofty top and hear the glori-
ous music peal from crag to crag, nor smell
the freshness of the flowers divine, may I not
upward point the way to one, who, catching
the refrain, is fired to struggle on and cling to
that strong, mental staff, an aim in life? No;
I'll be myself an earnest worker, and with
voice and pen will seek to waken fruitful thought
in heedless youth—to elevate myself, and
through the force of my example, linked with
searching words, portray to those around me
the beauty of a studious life.
							SALOAME.


SURPRISE AT KANAB.

	March 21, 1881, the teachers of the R. S. of
Kanab Ward gave a surprise to Sister Emily
J. Lewis, on her birthday. At 7 P. M. about
fifty of the brethren and sisters entered her
house, laden with the good things of life. Most
of the brethren, as well as some of the sisters,
made some short, pithy speeches, compliment-
ary to Sister Lewis. Spoke of her kind heart
and the great good she had done in her posi-
tion as President of the teachers, and in labor-
ing among the sick. Sister Lewis showed her
appreciation of the surprise in a few humble
remarks. We spent a very pleasant evening,
and retired to our homes mutually benefitted.
							M. E. L.


[Column 1]
ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE on Main St., Old Constitution Buildings.
RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
10th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART, and LUNGS.

ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.
	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE, and EAR.

HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
	If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and co[---]sion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. ☞ Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO., CHICAGO, ILL.
YOUNG BROS. Agent, Salt Lake City.

[Column 2]
PALACE OF FASHION, NO. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST
MRS C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes. Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE and RESIDENCE over Contributor Office, north of
Z. C. M. I.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ties.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake City and vicinity will find the LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES & SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's Fine Shoes,
obe found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
—HAVE—
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, NOS. 124 & 126.
CALL AND EXAMINE
☞ Spring and Summer Goods. ☜

DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Reparied on short notice. Orders from
the country, promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box [-]06, Salt Lake City.

☞ Z. C. M. I. ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Special Departments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flanels, 		White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys, 	Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES FEATHERS WALL PAPER
—AND—
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION, PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, [-]41.

