VOL. 9.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1880.	No. 10.


[Column 1]
BEHOLD THE DAWN.

Show me the man, who is never afraid—
The cause of the poor, or oppress'd, to aid—
And I'll show you a prince! as brave, as just,
That the humblest, the highest, the world,could trust.

Show me, the man, who exerts his might—
To remedy wrongs, that the world things right—
And I'll show you a king! a champion true!
A Defender of Freedom! of Woman too!

So the being ungrateful, who tramples down—
The RIGHTS of WOMAN, is Knave or Clown;
Nearly, a Nero! he stands confest,
He could smite, like that hero (?,) his mother's breast.

And should not women have rights in common?
Who, is so base, to this fact deny?
Be sure, they are frauds, who would wrest, Rights from
	them;
Be sure they are creatures, would cheat and lie.

By her strength of affection, her strength of will—
Doth not a woman her task fulfill?
The mother of ALL! yea, their friend most true—
Is man so small, to with-hold her due?

Alas! even Adam, (O, lasting shame)
Sacrificed Eve, to a selfish aim:
"T'was the Woman that gave me the fruit" so fair—
'Tis the woman, O, Lord, that the Curse should bear.

Has she shrank from "The Curse," through the ages
	past?
Nay! Her Cross is her Crown, from first to last,
But if Woman should less of a heroine be,
The end of creation, be sure you'd see.

This fact is significant, passing strange—
Not a man would his lot, for a woman's exchange;
Or one, or the other, if men might choose—
The fate of a woman they'd all refuse.

And wherefore, should favor'd exempted man—
Oppression, append to the primal Ban?
Doth it follow, if Woman, a cross must bear—That it warrants the world to her Rights foreswear?

Or think you, because of that fatal "Fall"—
That Woman, is born to be held in thrall?
Because her submission, the Heaven's approve—
To "the one" who is worthy her special love.

It is strange that a woman her Right desires?
That of wrongs and suppression at last she tires?
Monopolies rarely the world have blest;
Distribution of blessings is always best.

Equality even, "The Sex" might claim;
But a change for good is their humble aim;
That the Laws are partial, and men perverse—
Is cruelty's Capping of Nature's Curse.

"The Laws" for protection should e'en be just,
But to love to affection the WEAK must trust(?)
Can we possibly picture a man of mind
Submitting his ALL to a God so blind?—

In the grand old Bible, 'tis thus we read
"Man's heart is decitful and wicked indeed,"
Wherefore should woman depend altogether—
For Justice, on aught that might change like the weather.

Love and protection a woman craves;
'Tis a blessing that many protection find,
But many a wife is a slave of slaves,
As many a husband is true and kind.

But what of the women who ne'er are blest—
With the staunch support of a manly breast?
Custom and Law should their rights defend—
But neither, Alas! is a woman's friend.

Custom with holds, ('tis as mean as true)
To Woman the half of her wages due;
And nothing at all, "the law relaxes—
If a woman can't vote, she must pay her taxes.

'Tis a woman's REQUEST that "The Laws" be fair,
And ere she wills it, Beware! Beware!

[Column 2]
Extend to woman, the means of grace—
Exalt through the mother, the human race.

Man's justice is tardy and sparsely given;
But the Rights of Women are dear to Heaven!
And a brighter Era, will woman see;
Behold the Dawn of her Destiny!

Is anything NEW, beneath the Sun?
Oh yes, in the WEST hath the DAY begun;
The dawn of Right in the west appears;
That shall brighter glow with the strength of years.

"The primitive Cuse" is enough to bear;
And the Women of Utah the first will share—
"The honors" with men nor content they'll be—
Till Women all over the earth are free.

					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
	S. L. City.


[Column 1]

PEN SKETCH OF AN  ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

(Continued.)

	There are times in the history of individuals
when the life seems full of wonderful events
crowded into close proximity; when there is a
realizing sense of completeness, which is like a
rapturous burst of thrilling melody, a psalm of
praise and rejoicing, as it were, which is often
followed by a soul-felt requiem, sad in compari-
son, yet as grand and lofty, as eloquent and full
of meaning, as significant in greatness, as the
loudest anthem of gladness.
	Our readers who are acquainted with the
history of Nauvoo, know how many important
events transpired there during those few short
years; and in many of them the lady of whom
we write bore a conspicuous part. It was dur-
ing this period that she may be said to have
been brought forward as a leader among wo-
men. It was her destiny.
	The Relief Society was organized in Nauvoo
by the Prophet Joseph, and women were ap-
pointed, or called and set apart, to preside, to
keep records, to lay hands on the sick, and to
perform other deeds of charity, love and mercy,
that pertain to the true mission of woman,
which had not before been defined in the ca-
pacity of an organization, now made complete
in itself and self-governing, yet reaching out
kindly to all its members an opportunity to ob-
tain knowledge and intelligence, blessings and
keys pertaining to woman and her laboss. In
this first organization, Sister Eliza was chosen
Secretary, which brought her prominently for-
ward as one of the founders of the institution,
and helped to prepare her as an organizer; or-
ganization is one of the strong features of her
character; her executive ability combined with
this happy faculty, gives great strength to this
department of her work, and she has had much
to do in this capacity. When one calls to mind
the fact that there are three hundred branches
of the Relief Society, almost as many Young
Ladies' Associations, and hundreds of Primary
Associations for the children, now in working
order, and that she has done a large proportion
of the organizing, one cannot but acknowledge
that she must have possessed extraordinary
power and ability in this direction. Through
these institutions the Lord has greatly blessed
woman, new light has dawned upon her mind,
latent thoughts have been aroused, and higher
aspirations awakened, that have given fuller
expression and deeper meaning to her lifework.
	For something more than two years after the

[Column 2]

organization of the Relief Society, the life of
this remarkable woman was exceedingly rich
in the fulness of friendship and love: she was
enjoying the companionship of those who were
dearer to her than aught else on earth—the
Prophet of God, her loyal husband; her high-
est and holiest ambition for this life was thus
satisfied in the restfulness of a union so sacred
that it seemed the perfection of earthly happi-
ness.
	But  anon, the scene was changed. Many
schemes were laid and plans formed to bring
trouble upon the Saints. Rulers and governors
sought to adopt measures and enforce laws to
oppress the people, who had already suffered so
much at the hands of their enemies. The au-
thorities of the State were interceded with in be-
half of justice for the oppressed. It was perfectly
proper, in the extremity to which the Saints
were driven, that women should entreat justice
from those in power, whose duty it was to pro-
tect law-abiding citizens. Sister Eliza was a
fit messenger to go upon such an errand. The
circumstance has never before been published.
	"In the latter part of July,1842,Mrs. Smith,
President of the Relief Society proposed a pe-
tition to Governor Carlin, asking his protection
of Joseph Smith, which was received with en-
thusiasm by unanimous vote. Sister Eliza, as
Secretary wrote the petition, which was signed
by several hundred ladies, and in company of
President Emma and Mrs. Warren Smith, vis-
ited the Governor at his residence in Quincy,
Adams, Co., Ill., where they were most cor-
dially received and courteously treated by the
Governor and family. Pres. Mrs. Smith an-
nounced to His Excellency the purport of the
visit, and her Secretary presented the Petition,
to which he responded with the kindest ex-
pression, and gave assurances of his protection
of the prophet, saying emphatically: "I believe
Mr. Smith is innocent." But alas! how verita-
bly did those petitioners prove the truthfulness
of the following saying of Josephus: "A man's
words may be either true or false, according to
the import of them, but by his actions do we
know the real intent."
	Soon  after their return home, they learned
that at the very time of their visit, and while
expressing sentiments of friendship, and prof-
fering gubernatorial protection to the prophet,
the Governor, in connection with Missouri offi-
cials, was plotting his destruction.
	The above is one of the many instances of
perfidy and double dealing from those holding
the reins of government, who should have been
protectors of the innocent. The history and
record of the events thot occurred at that time
substantiate the facts to which we refer. The
incident we have here related is one of the tes-
timonies which will stand against that Gover-
nor at the last day, for the persecution steadily
increased." Wicked men, the enemies of the
Latter-day work, would not let the prophet
rest. They laid snares in his way, they sought
to take away his life, and in an evil hour they
succeeded. Oh, the horror, the anguish of that
terrible tragedy can never, never be told in
words. The Saints all mourned the prophet
slain, but alas! for those to whom his plighted
vows were pledged: none know, but those who
suffered, what agony rent their souls! What
of Eliza—this gifted, noble woman, who had
given to this great man, this loyal servant of
the Most High, her heart's best affections; who
had thought no sacrifice too great to assist him
in establishing again on the earth the new and


everlasting  covenant  of  marriage  through the
holy order of the Melchizedec  Priesthood?
	When the news of his massacre first reached
her, she  could  not  believe  it;  and  it was well
that  she  did not,  or  she might have sunk  un-
der  the  terrible blow. But gradually she came
to understand and realize that he was gone, and
mourned  for  him, not  only as  the leader of a
great people, but  as  the  true, faithful and ten-
der wife mourns, and she poured forth her soul
in  characteristic  verse;  the  poetry  of  her wo-
man  nature  was  stirred  to  her  heart's  inner
fountains, by the  cruel martyrdom. Yet  God
was in all her thoughts.  He was her refuge in
this  hour  of heavy trial, which  she was  com-
pelled to bear in silence and alone. What had
the world  to  do with  her  wounds, or her dis-
tress?  Nothing!  It was a union of hearts and
lives  which  the  world  did  not  recognize, but
God, Who  knoweth  the  secrets  of  all  hearts,
took  her  into  His  precious  care.  His  love
soothed  her, and  she  looked  forward with the
eye of  faith, and  a  calmness  and  trustfulness
which  passeth  understanding, to  the  re-union
beyond,when she would meet her beloved again,
and  partake  of  the  fulness  of  the  exaltation
which  she  knew  would  be  obtained   through
obedience  to  that  higher  law which  God  had
revealed, through  him who  had  laid down his
life in trying to establish it.
	She  dedicated  herself  anew to the work  she
had so heroically begun. She had received the 
baptism of suffering, and arisen  from the terri-
ble ordeal with  a  determination  to take up all
the burdens of life and bear them through good
or  ill  report,  relying  upon  the  arm  that   is
mighty to save.
	The  Temple, which  had  been  in  process of
erection at the time of the death of the prophet,
was  at  length  finished; and woman was  called
upon  to  take her part in administering therein,
officiating in the character of  priestess. Sister
Eliza then began another  era  in  her  peculiar
life;  and  she  ministered in that Temple in the 
holy rites that pertain to the house of the Lord
as priestess and Mother in Israel to hundreds of
her sex.
	To be continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE.

HONOLULU, OAHU, SANDWICH ISLANDS,
		Aug. 1, 1880.
	EDITOR EXPONENT:—If your valuable pa-
per can afford space for a brief communication
from a country so remote from Zion as this is,
I will offer a few items on matters connected
with our mission on these Islands.
	On the first day of June, 1879, I started from
my home in Provo in company with my hus-
band, to fill a mission among the Hawaiians.
We arrived in the beautirul tropical town of
Honolulu, the metropolis of the Islands, after
an absence of five years, and was welcomed by
the native brethren and sisters with such mani-
festations as they in their simplicity are able to
make. 
	At the following October Conference, held
at Laie, I was chosen to take the Superinten-
dency of all the Relief Societies, organized in
our Church, on these Islands. Sisters Sarah
Dean, Nellie Alexander and Gundy Anderson,
and two faithful native sisters, wore chosen to
assist in that capacity. Accordingly, I took a
trip to the Island of Kawai, which lies about
one hundred miles N. W., accompanied by the
two native sisters, Kaahanui and Kealohanui,
the former being able to turn the scales at 275
pounds; the foreign sisters not being able to
accompany me, in consequence of having small
children to care for. We left Honolulu at 5:30
o'clock P. M. of July 19, Mr. Cluff having ac-
companied me to Honolulu, and placed me
safely on board the little steamer James McKee.
My admiration of the beautiful scenery back

[Column 2]

of the town of Honolulu, as we steamed out
through the channel, was suddenly changed
when fairly outside of the reef, where we got
the full effects of the trade winds that whistled
over the mountains. I had always thought
that my former sea voyages were all I could
possibly endure and live, but the playful way
in which the little steamer glided from wave
to wave was worse to me, seemingly, than death,
and I found that I really had not known what 
sea-sickness was.
	We landed at Nawiliwili Kawai on the fol-
lowing morning almost unable to move when
upon the land; fortunately for me the voyage
was a short one. I met my nephew, Elder B.
Clnff, Jun., who was making a tour of this
island; he procured a buggy and took me to
the residence of Bro. Kawe (the cry), President
of the Hanumaula branch, who extended to us
all the courtesy and kindness possible for a na-
tive to bestow, and their hospitable character-
istic, as a people, is noted by strangers. Not
only were the members of our Church kind
and obliging, but the neighbors who made no
profession of faith, especially Mr. Kamanu
(the bird) and his gracious wife, Kahoopii (to
sue at law). During our stay at this place,
Mrs. Kahoopii never failed to supply us, regu-
larly at meal time, with well prepared refresh-
ments served up on a salver, their circumstan-
ces pecuniarily being above the average native
people. 
	On our way from Nawiliwili to Koloa we
visited a plantation where they manufacture
starch from the root of the Manioc. The root
of this plant has a close resemblance to the
Yam, and requires at least eighteen months
growth before use; but it may continue grow-
ing for years without injury. The average
yield per acre is about three tons, and the ex-
pense of manufacturing is very light, compared
to the cost of the manufacturing of sugar.
	The town of Koloa, especially the lower part
of it, is built upon a lava flow of very ancient
formation, and when the Islands swarmed with
a pure Hawaiian population, compelling the
cultivation of every available spot of ground,
the lava rock was gathered in heaps, giving
space for a hill of sweet potatoes, squash, or
onions, and thus piles of rock remain as monu-
ments of the past.
	Having made arrangements to organize a
Relief Society at Koloa on the 26th of July,
we made our way over rolling hills and through
green pastures, where the herds of cattle were
grazing leisurely upon the hills and plains,
when we suddenly came upon the brink of
what appeared a deep chasm, defying any fur-
ther advance; but we were soon informed that
the town of Hanapepe lay almost beneath us. 
Standing upon the brink we looked down sev-
eral hundred feet below, upon the town and
beautiful, wavy fields of rice and Kalo; this
deep, narrow valley is walled in with precipices
of red rock, very much like that of Echo
Canon in Utah. Hanapepe signifies broken,
bruised, crushed—and I am certain the name
is very applicable. Our stay at this place was
very brief, but pleasant. I found the water
there surpassed in coolness any that I have
tasted on the Islands.
	We returned to Koloa, and on the 26th, ac-
cording to previous appointment, we organized
a Relief Society, uniting the sisters of Koloa,
Hanapepe and Kemoa in one Society for the
present, which numbers seventy-four officers
and members.
	There may be a curiosity in the minds of
some of the readers of the EXPONENT to know
how a Society of this kind operates among the
sisters of our Church here. Our organizations
are in accordance with those at home,but there
are many more difficulties attending a Society
of this kind here than at home. The peculiari-
ties, customs, traditions, habits and supersti-
tions of this people are such that it requires

[Column 3]

more instruction and a wonderful supply of
patience to keep them from various vagaries;
more especially is this the case during the ab-
sence of our Elders, when they fly off, as it
were, upon superstitious ideas, and not unfre-
quently get into a spirit of jangling. The
Society at Laie, which is always under the
immediate care of the Elders, has been so
trained that they move along with less difficulty
than that which attends organizations among
those of less experience; but the improvements
made in the Society at Laie are sufficient to
give us hope for others: I am satisfied that
our sisters from home, when they acquire a
knowledge of the language, can do much good
in uniting our Hawaiian sisters. One difficulty
which exists with members of Relief Societies
at home is never felt by our Hawaiian sisters;
I refer to a diffidence in speaking in public.
Here the difficulty comes in when you want
them to stop, for they never tire of talking.
	Leaving Koloa we went to Wailua, passing
Nawiliwili to the right. Here we enjoyed the
beautiful scenery, and also the boating on the
river, visiting the falls, and listening to the
legends and myths connected with the place,
as recited by our native friends. Here we
met Sister Nahinu, who is a cousin of the
present Queen and a chiefess. She is a very
pleasant lady, and is very much interested in
the progress of Zion. She and her husband,
also a member of the Church, entertain strong
hopes of going to Utah, and now await the
consent of the King. 
	We returned home after an absence of two
weeks, pretty nearly prostrate with the extra
sea-sickness.
	Please extend my kind regards to Sisters
E. R. Snow, Zina D. Young, Bathsheba W.
Smith and Ma Smcot. Praying for your suc-
cess in your editorial capacity, I remain,
	MARGARET A. CLUFF.


LAMANITE SISTERS TESTIFY,

	At  a  meeting  of the  Relief Society  of In-
dianola  (Thistle  Valley), Sept. 16, 1880, Mrs.
Jane  Simons, President of the  Payson  Relief
Society, with  her  counselors  and other  sisters,
were present.   Meeting called to order by Pres.
Lodisia  Spencer.  Singing.   Prayer  by  Pres.
Jane Simons.   Singing.   Roll  called, thirteen
members  present. Minutes  of  previous  meet-
ing read and approved.
	Sister  Douglas  spoke  to the sisters: said she
felt glad  to have the privilege of meeting with
the  sisters  of  Indianola;  was  glad  to  see  the
improvement  made  by  the  Lamanite  sisters.
Also gave some very good instructions, and en-
couraged them to do right, and the Lord would
bless them. Interpreted  by Pres. John  Spen-
cer, who was present and acted throughout the
meeting as  interpreter.
	Sister Moore  said  she  felt  glad to meet with
the  sisters  of  Indianola, and  that  she lived in
this  day and  age  of  the world, when the Gos-
pel had been made known to the human family;
and gave some very good instructions. Prayed
the Lord to bless them all.
	Sister Hancock said she was glad to have the
privilege of living in  this day. She  felt  that
the Spirit  of God  was  in  their  midst to-day.
Said she could see a great  improvement in the
Lamanites;  also felt well.
	Sister Martha  Simons  spoke  to  the  sisters;
said  she  felt  thankful  to  God  for having the
privilege  of  meeting with the  Lamanite sisters
of  Indianola. Said  we  ought  to  be  faithful
and  set a good example  to the Lamanites, and
also teach them to be cleanly and to have faith
in  God;  and  gave  other  good  instructions.
Prayed  that  God  would  bless  those  who  are
called to lead the Saints here in Indianola.
	Sister  Phebe (Lamanite) said  she  felt  glad
to see the day when the white and the red sis-


ters  could  mingle  together. Said she knew it
was right to keep  herself  clean;  and  also  en-
couraged the sisters to diligence.
	Sister  Mary  Tackipo  (Lamanite)  said  she
felt glad to  meet  with the sisters from  Payson;
had known some of them for a  long time. Said
she  was  learning  to  keep  house, and assisting
her husband in his labors. Said  she  liked  it
better than her former way of doing.
	Bro. Joseph(Lamanite) said he was glad to see
the sisters from Payson. Said the Indians with
him  felt well;  felt  like  doing right, and loved
peace.
	Sistsr  Hannah  Moritze (Lamanite) said  she
felt well in hearing the  sisters  who had spoken
there that day. Was anxious to  learn to keep
house and to keep herself  clean.
	Sister  Annetta  Panawatts  (Lamanite) said
she felt well and was glad to hear what she had
heard. Was willing to learn how to become a
good  Latter-day  Saint,  but  was  rather slow.
Said she felt different altogether  since she had
been baptized.
	Sister  Jane  Simons  said  she  felt  well  in
meeting with  the  sisters, and  of  hearing what
she had heard  from  the white women and also
the Lamanite  sisters. Felt  that  the Spirit of
God  was  there  on  that  occasion.  Gave some
good instruction  and  encouraged the sisters to
diligence  and  to  be  faithful.  Said  she was
present at the dedication of the Kirtland Tem-
ple. Had  heard  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith
prophecy in  regard to  the Lamanites embrac-
ing the  Gospel  in  the  last  days. Related  to
them a testimony of the laying on  of hands.
	Sister  D, D. Tanner said  she felt well could
see  a  great  improvement  in   the   Lamanite's
since she came to this valley and in the  Relief
Society. Prest.  John Spencersaidhe was glad
to have the  opportunity  of  meeting  with  the
Relief  Society  of  Indianola  and  said, I am
pleased to see  our Sisters  who  have been with
us to-day, said they  had an  object in  view  in
coming to visit the Lamanite Sisters, described
how he found the Lamanites, in their low state
some three years previous. Said  they  are now
commencing to gather  in,  they say the Latter-
day Saints are the only friends  they have  got
President Young  told  them  many  years  ago
that we desired to teach  them truth. There is
a great labor in teaching them in their temporal
as well as their spiritual affairs,also encouraged
the sisters in their labors.
	Sister Douglas felt glad to see the peace and
good order which we  have  had  to-day  would
like very much to visit the Lamanite sisters at
their homes.
	Sister Seely said that she felt  glad that   the
sisters had come to  visit and  hoped  it  would
not be the  last  time.  Said  she  felt  willing to
take hold and assist all  she could in  teaching
the Lamanite sisters, and also the brethren,said
they were making great improvements and are
willing to  learn  everything  that is  taught  to
them. Brother Joseph's wife was administered
to by Brother  John  Spencer.  President Lod-
isia Spencer spoke,  returned her thanks to the
visiting sisters  said she  appreciated  the  good
spirit  that had  been  there  that day  and was
glad her sisters had come from Payson  to visit
them and hoped it would not be the last time.
Singing.  Benediction by  Bro. Joseph, (Lam-
anite.)
	LODISIA SPFNCER Pres.
	M. V. SELMAN, CLERK,Protem.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		75


TULLIDGE'S great play of Elizabeth, which
was written expressly for Julia Dean Hayne
will be read at the Theatre this evening.

	WASHINGTON Territory has had one lady
School Superindent, and her success was so
satisfactory that the Democrats there, have
nominated ladies for the position in three other
counties.


[Column 1]
A LEAF FROM MY DIARY.

	September 28, 1880.—I got up very early
this morning, in order to have all things ready
and get to the depot in good time. Cousin
George and the little boys went along to carry
my things. There was quite a company of
us, and no doubt people thought the whole
family were going, but they didn't. Well, I
got safely on the cars, budgets, bundles and
satchels, and Cousin George got me a ticket for
home. The car was full of people, and they
all seemed to be going the same way. I de-
posited myself on the seat with my bundles, for
I was bound to keep an eye on them. I raised
the window and put down the blind, and set-
tled myself comfortably, taking out my paper
and pencil to note down anything I might see
by the way. As the car moved on there was
too much draught, so I raised the blind and
put down the sash, which gave me a better
view of the country, and I was enjoying my-
self immensely. Some people can't enjoy
themselves unless they are talking, and some
are never happy unless they are miserable, to
making some one else so, but I like a variety.
	Presently a gentleman came to a seat in fronr
of me, and finding it unoccupied, turned it
over and sat down vis-a-vis. Well, he sat down
in front of me, as I said before, and by the way
he looked at me I thought he wanted to be so-
ciable. I thought I'd try and be sociable too,
so I handed him one of my new books, just
pnblished. He looked at the outside of the
book, and then he opened it and looked at the
inside. Then he picked out a piece and com-
menced reading it. By and by he said: "Mad-
am, you are ambiguous." Now, ambiguity
never was one of my besetting sins. My worst
enemy never called me ambiguous, and I felt
like the woman who was having her husband
tried in court for beating her. "Madam," said
the judge, "does your husband beat you with
impunity?" "No, your honor," said she, "he
beats me with a stick."
	But I said nothing, only just looked at the
book and said, "How?" He explained the
matter to me and made a few general remarks
on punctuation and the ignorance of some peo-
ple, and went on reading. I leaned back in
my seat and made a few reflections on things
in general and ambiguity in particular. After
a while he leaned over toward me and said;
"Did you ever have any trouble in yonr early
life, that should give your writings a tone of
sadnes?" And I said, "No, not as I know of."
He picked out another piece and read it, and
then said: "When did you write this piece?"
"Oh, about twenty-five years ago." I almost
hated to say so long ago, but it was the truth
and I said it. "Well," said he, "didn't you
know the Cullom Bill made it a crime?"
"What a crime?" said I, wondering if I had
been ambiguous again. "Why," he said, "ad-
vising a man to marry two wives." Now I
was in a fix, worse and worse. I studied the
matter over a while and then said: "I must
have written that before the Cullom Bill passed,
because I wrote that when I was first married,
and I had been married a long while when the
Cullom Bill passed." And then I sat back
and reflected on the perversity of human na-
ture, and how it could be I had committed a
crime in telling a man to marry two wives, and
finally concluded there would be no crime,unless
the man actually did marry two wives, and
then I might be accessory, through having told
him to; and my mind was getting tolerably
calm again, when he looked up and asked if he
should criticise my book in sections, or if I
wished him to do it all then. I said, by no
means, I would not trouble him so much.
He handed me the book and walked away. I
took up my pencil and wrote a poem something
like this:

[Column 2]
You ask me why a vein of sadness
	Mingles with my sweetest lay;
Dost thou think that naught but gladness
	Ever lay along my way.

Gliding on life's changing river,
	Many happy years I've spent;
Dost thou think that sorrow never
	To my heart her shaft has sent?

Could I part with father, mother,
	Children, home and dearest friends,
And each tender impulse smother,
	That a passing sadness blends?

Let the poet tell his fancies,
	Light they are, perhaps, and vain,
But their fitful fever dances
	Ever through his busy brain.

Dost thou never think that sorrow,
	Ofttimes seen in passing by,
Of his sympathy may borrow
	Teardrops to bedew his eye?

Hard the heart, and all unfeeling,
	That can know no other's pain;
Or, in sympathy revealing,
	Make the thought his own again.

Dost not know that poet's nature
	Is to feel what others see?
Loves he every human creature,
	And his spirit must be free.

Let him, then, indulge his dreaming,
	Be his fancies sad or gay;
And whate'er of sorrow seeming,
	He will sing his sweetest lay.

							AUNT JANE.


WOMAN'S VOICE

	I have often thought that I would like to
have a voice with the rest of my sisters in our
valuable little paper. But in taking my pen
I feel my weakness, when I see the bright intel-
ligences that dwell among my beloved sisters.
But nevertheless with the help and assistance
of the spirit of my Heavenly Father, I will
endeavor to say a few words. I have not
the language to express my gratitude: I thank
my Father in Heaven that he has brought me
out of nature's darkness into the marvelous
light of the Gospel. When I heard the Elders
preach I embraced it with joy. I emigrated
in the first year of the handcart companies and
rejoiced that I was counted worthy to make a
little sacrifice for the Gospel's sake, and the
Lord has blessed me abundantly; and I feel
proud to be associated with the chosen people
of God, and pray that I may be ever worthy to
be one with them. I must say the people of
Wellsville are a good kind and warm hearted
people and the sisters are trying to strengthen
the hands of our brethren in building up the
kingdom of God, and we have an excellent
Sunday School which is a great blessing to the
young. While writing this I have been think-
ing of one of Sister Emily Hill's songs, which
we sang together on the plains.
	The chorus ran thus:
		"Hail ye heirs of glory,
			All hail, ye shall be blessed;
		Your deeds shall live in story,
			While unborn ages rest
	And I feel that the names of the faithful
handcart girls will be handed down in  honor-
able remembrance from generation to genera-
tion.
	A WORD FOR THE HAND-CART GIRLS.
		SUSANNAH STONE LLOYED.
	Wellsville Sept. 7, 1880.


If Gen. Garfield is such a man as Mrs. Sara
Spencer describes—“a man  of  the people,
brave, strong, tender and pure;  a working man,
a soldier,  a  statesman,  a  gentleman  and  a
scholar;  reverent to women, loving to children,
kind and loving to all that is human”—we had
better  thank  God for the chance to make  him
our President,—Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months
$1.00  Ten  copies  for  the  price  of  nine.  Advertising
rates: Each square,  ten  lines  of  nonparell  space, one
time,  $2.50:  per  month, $3.00. A liberal discount  to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower  West  Room of  the Council
House, South  Temple  Street.  Business  hours  from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, OCTOBER  15, 1880.


[Column 1]
	FIFTIETH SEMI-ANNUAL CONFER-
	ENCE.

	THE October Conference just past  has  indeed
been a remarkable one.  It was numerously  at-
tended; people being present from all parts of the
country.  The preaching throughout was inspir-
ing,  and  the  instructions  given  calculated  to
benefit all who will receive it in good and honest
hearts, and practice its life-giving principles.  It
is evident the kingdom of God is fast  increasing
in strength and power.  "Zion is growing!” The
latter-day work is progressing  rapidly, and  soon
all nations will have heard  the  glad  tidings  of
great joy.
	Conference lasted  five whole  days,  commenc-
ing on Wednesday morning at 10 o’clock, Octo-
ber 6th, and closing Sunday  afternoon,  October
10th.  The  people  manifested  no  impatience
whatever, but each day seemed more and  more
delighted.   Sunday afternoon the most  import-
ant business was transacted. It had been announc-
ed on  Sunday  morning,  that  at  a  priesthood
meeting held in the Assembly  Hall,  Saturday
evening, President  Taylor had been  nominated
as president of the Church, and that the several
quorums of the holy priesthood  then  and  there
assembled had voted upon  it.  That on Sunday
afternoon the priesthood would vote by quorums
and  after  them  the  entire congregation.  The
people were  also advised to vote conscientiously.
Accordingly the numerous  congregation assem-
bled early and  were seated  in  the  order  agreed
upon  in the  morning.  The  Tabernacle  was
crowded to its utmost capacity.  It was a grand
and  imposing spectacle to gaze  upon.
	The meeting was called to  order by President
John Taylor.  Choir sang:	
	“O God, our help in ages past,”
in the most  impressive  manner.  Elder  Albert
Carrington offered the  opening  prayer. Choir
sang:
	“O God the Eternal Father."
	Elder Orson Pratt, who is the only remaining
member of the original  Quorum of the  Twelve
Apostles,  then  presented  the  authorities
of  the  Church  to  the  Conference, who
were voted for unanimously in  the  order of the
Priesthood, each quorum  according  to  their re-
spective rank, and afterwards  the whole congre-
gation rising to their feet with  uplifted hands to
heaven.  This solemn scene  will  live forever in
the  memory of  all  who  witnessed  it.  John
Taylor was sustained as Prophet, Seer and Reve-
lator and  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus
Christ of Latter-day  Saints  in  all  the  world.
George Q. Cannon as First Counselor and Joseph
F. Smith  Second Counselor  in  the First Presi
dency. Wilford  Woodruff  as  President of the
Twelve  Apostles.  The  other  members of the
quorum were then  sustained  according  to their
order. As  Counselors  to  the Twelve,

[Column 2]
John W.  Young  and  Daniel  H.  Wells
Then  the  names  of  Frances  Marion
Lyman and John Henry Smith  were presented
and unanimously sustained as members  of  the
Quorum of the Twelve.  All the other  presiding
officers were sustained  in their places  according
to their proper order.  The  new  edition of  the
Book of  Doctrine and Covenants  in  its revised
form, and the Pearl  of  Great  Price, were then
presented for the acceptance of  the Conference.
President Joseph F. Smith moved that  reve-
lations in these books  be received  and  accepted
by the Conference as revelations from God to the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and
to all the world.  The motion was  seconded and
sustained.  Other business was transacted, after
which  President  Taylor  and  Elder Woodruff
spoke  with  great  power  to  the  people, and
then, by request of  President Taylor, the choir
and the whole vast congregation  arose  to their
feet and sang  that  soul-thrilling  hymn, “The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning."  Conference
adjourned  until  the  6th  of  April, 1881, at 10
o’clock a.m. The benediction  was  pronounced
by Pres. Joseph F. Smith.

[Column 3]
We feel safe in recommending this book to the
general public, and especially  is it adapted to the
young people’s libraries.  Mrs. Tanner’s writings
are  evidently not  for  effect, but simply the out-
pourings of a soul, rich  in  kindness, sympathy,
tenderness, affection,  love  for  her  fellow  crea-
tures, love  of  God  and all  his works.  Many  of
her poems are excellent—they are all good.  "Is
Genius Immortal” is  certainly superior  in  true
merit.  The  books  contain  one  hundred  and
twtnty-five  pages, and  are  bound in  cloth and
leather, at $l,00 and $1,25 each;  paper covers 50
cents.  They may be  purchased  at  this  office,
also  at  the  office  of the “Deseret News" and
'Juvenile Instructor.”
	WE publish in  full  the  written  decision  of
the Judges  of the Supreme  Court  of  Utah  in
the  Mandamus  case,  which  caused  some  ani-
mated discussion on the part of the general pub-
lic while the case was pending.  It was decidedly
a  woman  question, as  the  real  object was the
disfranchisement  of  women  citizens.  We are
proud  to  say  that  the  majority  of the Judges
proved  themselves  on  the  side  of justice, and
very sorry that  the  minority man is so blind as
not  to  comprehend  the  situation  better.  We
have received telegrams  and  letters  from  the
active suffragists  in  the  East,  expressing their
indignation at  an  attempt  being  made to take
the  ballot from  the women  of  Utah, and urging
us to strongly and strenuously resist any further
attempt, should any be  made, and assuring  us,
should  such  be  the  case, they would  use their,
<such be="" the="" case,="" .they="" would="" <use="" their="" utmost,endeavors="" and="" infllittlee,="" to="" call="" attention="" injustice.="" much="" might="" said="" on="" this="" subject,="" but="" time.will="" prove="" whether="" right.will="" not="" eventually,successfully,="" triumph="" over="" wrong.'="" people’s="" territorial="" convention="" was="" held;.="" in="" city="" hall,="" oct.="" 7="" inst;,="" at="" 6="" there="" a="" full="" representation="" of:delegates,ffronfifio.="" several="" counties.="" usual.form;="" of="" transacting="" business="" nature,="" .bbserved.="" after="" which="" hon.="" moses="" thatcher,="" ,="" logan,="" nominated="" for="" delegate="" tha47.th="" congress,the="" george="" q.="" cannon,="" pledging="" him'the="" solid="" vote,="" cache="" co.,="" speaking:="" the.="" highest="" terms="" many="" his="" purity="" life,="" temperance="" aftl="" integrity..="" nomination="" was-="" seconded="" by="" john="" e.="" bboth,="" provoj-who="" also="" spoke="" praise="" nomihee;arid="" influ-="" ence,="" promised="" heartysuppoh‘pi="" utah="" co.="" ron.c.="" w.="" penrose;="" cityendorsed'.="" sentiments="" expressed,="" dwelt="" hriefiy="" lpon="" unblemished.="" character="" .and="" excellent="" abili-="" ties="" mr,="" ‘cjannon,="" proposed,="" inasmuch="" as="" appeared="" he="" no="" other="" nominee,="" that="" jthe="" name="" .cannon="" voted="" upon.="" accla-;="" mation.="" suggestion="" acted.-ppoh,="" sustained="" byrthe="" unanimous="" yoice="" ttie="" convention.="" short="" pithy="" speeches="" wej-e="" made="" dalegates.="" central="" committee="" were="" sus-="" tained="" aud="" three="" others="" added,="" one="" for,each="" new="" counties,="" emery,="" san="" juan="" uintah.="" booth="" moved="" committee-="" instructed="" draft="" resolutions="" party.="" the,="" first="" motion,="" however,="" with-="" drawn;="" .="" son.="" mdses="" thatcher="" suggested="" principle="" party="" “.the="" possible="" liberty="" man-="" woman.”="" before="" calling="" vote="" resolution="" pro-,="" posed,="" chairman,="" honl.="" harrington,="" said:="" “the="" sentiment="" expressed="" calls="" mind,="" is="" accordance="" with="" saying="" -jeffer-="" son,="" viz="" “i="" have="" sworn,="" upon="" altar="" god,="" eternal="" hostility="" every="" form="" tyranny'over="" mind="" man;="" again,="" vigilance="" price="" liberty.”="" furthereaid;="" spirit="" indicates="" right="" woman="" jsjiall="" continue="" inviolate,="" td="" shall="" acjded="" rigtvt="" hold="" all="" offices<="" div="">utmost endeavors and influence, to call attention
to  the  injustice.  Much  might be  said  on this 
subject, but  time will  prove whether  right will
not eventually, successfully triumph over wrong.
	THE People's Territorial  Convention was held
in  the  City  Hall, Oct.  7 inst., at 6 P.M. There 
was a full  representation  of  delegates  from the 
several counties.  The usual form of  transacting
business  of  this  nature  was  observed.  After
which  the  Hon.  Moses  Thatcher,  of  Logan,
nominated for Delegate to the 47th Congress the
Hon. George  Q. Cannon, pledging  for  him  the
solid  vote  of  Cache  Co., and  speaking  in  the
highest  terms  of  the  man,  his  purity  of  life,
temperance and integrity.  The nomination was
seconded by Hon. John E. Booth, of  Provo, who
also spoke in praise of the nominee and his influ-
ence, and  promised the hearty support  of  Utah
Co.  Hon. C. W. Penrose, of this  city, endorsed
the sentiments expressed, and dwelt briefly upon
the  unblemished  character  and excellent abili-
ties  of Mr. Cannon, and  proposed, inasmuch as
there appeared  to be no other nominee, that  the
name  of  Mr. Cannon  be voted  upon  by accla-
mation.  This suggestion  was  acted  upon, and
the nomination was sustained by the unanimous
voice  of  the  Convention.  Short  and  pithy
speeches were made by several of the delegates.
The  Territorial  Central  Committee  were  sus-
tained  and  three  others  added, one for  each of
the new counties, Emery, San Juan and Uintah.
Mr. John  E. Booth  moved that  the committee
be instructed to draft resolutions for the People's
Party.  The  first  motion, however,  was  with-
drawn, and the Hon. Moses Thatcher suggested
that the principle of the People's Party  be "The
highest  possible  liberty  to  man  and woman."
Before  calling for the vote on the resolution pro-
posed,  the  Chairman,  Hon.  L.  E. Harrington,
said: "The sentiment expressed  calls  to  mind,
and is in  accordance with the  saying  of Jeffer-
son, viz.:  "I have sworn, upon the altar  of God,
eternal hostility to  every form  of  tyranny  over
the  mind  of man;  and  again, eternal vigilance
is the price of liberty."  And further said; "The
spirit of the Convention  indicates that the right
of woman to vote  shall  continue inviolate, and 
to that shall be added the right to hold all offices


to which woman is adapted"—and in conversa-
tion he afterwards added the saying of Pres.
Jackson "that a plain system of government,
void of pomp, protecting all and granting favors
to none, dispensing its blessings, like the dews
of heaven, unseen and unfelt, save in the beauty
and freshness they contribute to produce," is
vital to the rights of the people. The suggestion
of Hon. Moses Thatcher was then unanimously
adopted.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young said: "Inasmuch as the
ladies of Utah have an honorable representation,
I desire, in their behalf, to express their complete
satisfaction with the nomination made by the
Convention." Remarks were made in reference
to calling conventions, etc., and a Committee of
seven were appointed by the Chair to notify Mr.
Cannon of the action of the Convention. The
Convention adjourned sine die.


HOME AFFAIRS. 

	We received, through courtesy of the author,
Col. Juan Lewis, a new work of his, entitled
"Two of the Name." It is very finely written
in a pleasing style, and forms one number of a
series, styled the "Philadelphia Library." We
had the pleasure of meeting and forming a very
pleasant acquaintance with Mrs. Col. Lewis in
Washington. She is the able editor of "Wo-
man's Words," published at 625 Walnut Street,
Philadelphia. We count this journal, one of the 
very best among our exchanges, and always
look forward anxiously to its coming.
	"The Contributor," a monthly magazine, edit-
ed by Junius F. Wells, and representing the
Young People's Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions, has completed one year and issued the first
number of its second volume. The new num-
ber for October is improved by the addition of
ten pages of reading matter. It is certainly well
worth the subscription, two dollars per year. The
articles in this number present a pleasing vari-
ety—historical, philosophical, sentimental and
general, with "Sketches from Life," that may
be termed humorous, and which are a happy
contrast to the solid reading. The writer, who
styles himself Gax, evidently has ability in that
style of writing, and should cultivate it by prac-
tise, as there are few who possess it in any great
degree. Gax may win name and fame, if he
will persevere. We are glad to see the "Univer-
sity of Deseret" written up in so able a manner,
and hope to see more on the same subject. The
University of Deseret has a history which should
be recorded. The struggles made by this people
to plant educational institutions in the early days
of Utah, are not recognized as they should be by
the men and women of to-day.
	"FUGITIVE POEMS."—This is the title of a
book recently published. The author, Mrs. M.
J. Tanner, is favorably known among the Saints
as a writer of both prose and verse. Her intro_
ductory  remarks, in presenting the book to the
public, are pleasing and impressive. We quote
the following from the preface:
	"Poetry is the clothing of our thoughts and
fancies, not the revelation of our experience. 
That the wildest and most erratic ideas find vent
through its channels has been proven by those
who have, long ago, been acknowledged as pos-
sessing the highest genius. I lay no claim to
erudition or elegance, but if my humble efforts
should touch a pathetic feeling in the hearts of
my readers, or gain an appreciation, I shall feel
that my labors are well rewarded."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

IN MEMORIAM. 

	Sister Louisa Barnes Pratt was born in War-
wick, Franklin Co. Mass.,10th,of November 1802;
she was the 5th, daughter of Willard and Polly
Stevens Barnes. She says in her journal "My
grandfather Abraham Barnes, was a man dis-
tingushed for his piety and wisdom, being hard
of hearing he was asked if he did not regret his
deafness? O! no, he replied it is a less affliction
than the nonsense which forever assails the ear.
My grandmother Polly Stevens was reputed
amiable and affectionate very fond of children
and especially to those of her own kindred."
Both her grandparents were Unitarians and lived
to the best light they had. Her father and
mother were members of the Unitarian Church
till their removal to Lower Canada (or Canada
East) in 1810 where they joined the Episcopal,
or Church of England, in which she was con-
firmed and remained a member through the
days of her youth till after she was married and
moved to New York when she joined the Pres-
byterians.
	She was married to Addison Pratt of Win-
cherter, New Hamshire, April 3d 1831, by whom
she had four daughters, all still living. She
lived to see the fourth generarion; she had seven-
teen living grandchildren and six have died, has
one great-grandchild living, which was present
and formed a part of her enjoyment on her 77th,
anniversary. She was baptized into the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in the
waters of Lake Erie town of Ripley Chataque
Co., New York in the month of June, 1838, by
her brother in-law Elder Jonathan Crosby Nov.
35, 1838, they left Ripley New York, for Far
West,Caldwell Co. Mo. For the first five hund-
red miles mud was not seen upon the wagon
wheels, the weather was so intensely cold, then
came a January thaw which rendered the roads
almost impassable. On arriving in Indiana they
heard of the expulsion of the Saints from Far
West, and the Saints who were on their way
were counseled to remain where they were till
further orders; so they bought a farm in Clay
county and tarried there till the year 1841, when
they removed to Nauvoo arriving there at the
October Conference of that year.
	Houses were few and hard to be obtained but
it mattered not to her she was in the city of the 
Saints and in sight of the Temple.
	June 1st, 1843 her husband with three other
Elders Brother Noah Rogers, B. F. Grouard and
Knowlton Hanks, were called to go on a three
years mission to the South Sea Islands, the first
Elders of our Church sent to preach in a foreign
language; he was absent from his family five
years and four months, meeting them in Salt
Lake in Sept. 1848. When news came that they
must leave Nauvoo her heart failed her, she
thought she could not undertake the journey

[Column 2]

without her husband and with four children all
girls, but she rallied her drooping courage pro-
cured an ox team engaged a driver, and in May
1846, crossed the Mississippi and followed on
with the rest. Camped at Winter Quarters the
following Winter where she with her family ex-
perienced much sickness,privation and hardships
but no death. The summer, of '47 they spent  in
that place most of the time in sod-caves and dug
outs.
	In May 1848 she left Winter Quarters with her
family in Prest. Brigham Young's company for
Salt Lake arrived there in Sept. Two weeks
after her arrival Mr. Pratt came in, having
come the western route from the Islands, by way
of Cal., with the battalion boys, stayed with his
family one year,in the fall of '49 went with Capt.
Hunt the Southern route acompanied by two
others Elders for the Islands. The family follow-
ing in the Spring. May 8th, 1850 Sister Pratt
with her four daughters, Bro. J. Crosby and
family and several other Elders started with ox
teams for Sacramento across the Rocky Moun-
tains on their way to join Bro. Pratt in the
Islands. On the 15 Sept. 1850 from San Fran-
cisco embarked on board the brig Jane A. Her-
sey, Capt. Salmon for the Island of Tubuai,
landed there Oct. 21st. and found the husband
and the father detained a prisoner on Tahiti,
as the French Governor did not want any but the
Catholic religion promulgated under the Protec-
torate, the family were full of sorrow when they
found he was not there, but they went to work
with a will to learn the language and by the time
he arrived on Tubuai,which was Jan. 19th, 1851,
they were able to answer every quesion he
could ask them in Tahitian. Sister Pratt never
allowed the girls to give up their studies' every
morning  they repaired to the "fare bure rea" as
the natives called for meeting house pursued
their English studies in the forenoon and studied
Tahitian in the afternoon and taught the natives
to knit and sew or any thing they wished. Sis-
ter Pratt was much beloved by the native sisters
who had great faith in her anointing with con-
secrated oil their children and themselves when
ever they were sick.
	The French government laid so many restric-
tions on them they could not tarry their 
appointed time on the 6th, April 1852 they left
Tubuai and went to Tahiti where the brethren
could get work to obtain money to come home
with. The 14th of May embarked on board the
barque Callao, Capt. Sergeant, in company with
Brother Grouard and family for San Francisco.
Sister Pratt and family arrived on the 15th of
July 1852, glad to set foot on her native shore
once more; staid there till Dec., following em-
barked on the brig Fremont, Capt. Erskine for
San Pedro on their way to San Bernardino.
At the beach met Brother Wm. Fotheringham
and numerous other Elders destined to different
parts of the globe to preach the Gospel. Arrived
in San Ber. on Christmas day and found many
kind friends to welcome them back among them
	Dec. 1857, she with her youngest daughter,
the rest being married, left San Bernardino, Cal.
with the rest of the Saints in that branch to join
the Church in the valleys of the mountain. Her
husband leaving at the same time to go to Upper
California where their second child was living.
After many troubles and trials severe,she arrived
in Cedar city, Iron county Utah: staid through
the summer in that place; in the fall of 1858,
removed to Beaver, Utah, where she resided till
the day of her death. In May 1871 she made a
visit to Cunada East to the home of her child-
hood to see her brothers and sisters who were
living at that time.
	Sister Pratt's faculties remained unimpaired
to the last; she tended her own garden with
what help she could get from friends, had almost

[Column 3]

numberless correspondents, and was in the habit
of writing verses for every body around her on
every occasion. She was the life of every circle
where she was met; and had ever a consoling
word for the afflicted: Her faith in the Gospel
was unshaken, her trust in God unbounded.
She was first counselor to Mother Nyman in
the first organization of Relief Society in Beaver,
and Secretary of the same till her departure for
Canada. On the evening of Saturday Sept. 4th,
1880, she was taken with something like con-
gestive chill which settled on her lungs in the
form of pneumonia; two only of her daughters
were where they could be near her, in her last
illness they did everything weich love and
faith could suggest; but all to no avail. The
pain  in her lungs forbade her any rest for three
days; she plead earnestly for something to give
her rest, cold water cold water, was all the nour-
ishment she craved. On the morning of the 8th,
Sept. at a quarter to nine after being adminis-
tered to by the Elders she sweetly fell asleep in
Jesus.
	Sweet be her sleep, while her loss we deplore,
	Thoughts of her virtues increase more and more;
	T'will be long e'er the sting of her absence is o'er.
	God grant we may meet her on Heaven's bright shore,
	Where sorrow and parting shall grieve us no more.
		E. S. P. C.


THE  DECISION  OF  THE  SUPREME
COURT IN THE MANDAMUS CASE.

In the matter of  the  petition  and  affidavit  of 
George R. Maxwell for writ of mandamus,  di-
rected to Robert T. Burton,Assessor and Regis-
ter   of Salt Lake  County,  Territory  of Utah.
SUPREME COURT OF THE
TERRITORY  OF  UTAH.
Sutherland & McBride
for [Relator.
Zera Snow,
Zerrubbabel Snow,
J. L. Rawlins,
Richards &  Williams,
Bennett & Harkness,
A. Miner,
	For Respondent.
	A  petition  was presented  to  this Court at its
present session  by the relator for a writ  of man-
damus,  to  compel Robert T.  Burton,  Assessor
and   Register  of  voters  for Salt  Lake County,
Utah   Territory,  to  erase and  strike  from  the
list  of  voters of, Salt  Lake  County,  made by
him the name  of  the  following  persons,  viz.:
Emeline   B.   Wells, Ma[-]ia  M. Blythe and  Mrs.
A. G. Paddock, and also the names of all  women
whose  names  thereon  appear  on  the  aforesaid
list,  or  that  he  show  cause before this  court
on  the 29th day of September, why  he has  not
done so.   Also that  in  the  meantime  the  said
officer  be ordered not  to return said  list  or  any
copy thereof  to any election officer until the fur-
ther order of this court.
	An alternative  writ  was  ordered at the  time
of filing the petition and the  cause  came up for
hearing  on the day  mentioned  in  the  alterna-
tive writ,  to wit: Sept. 29, 1880.
	The respondent  on the day fixed for the hear-
ing appeared by counsel who interposed a de-
murrer  to  the  petition  and  writ,  assigning as
grounds therefor,
1.  That this court  has  no jurisdiction  of  the
subject of this action.
2.  Neither the petition  nor  writ herein state
facts  sufficient to constitute  a  cause  of  action,
thus raising two questions for the  determination
of this court.
	It has been   heretofore  held  by the  Supreme
Court of this  Territory, in the case  of Shepperd
vs the 2nd District Court, that this  court has no
original jurisdiction to issue mandamus except to
enable it  to  exercise  its  appellate jurisdiction.
And the Court  in that  case  cites sections 1,907,
1,866  and  1,869 of  the  Revised  Statutes of  the
United States, and  the  3d section of an act enti-
tled, "An  Act in  Relation  to Courts and judicial
officers in the Territory  of  Utah,  (Poland law)
which are as follows:
	Sec. 1,907.   "The judicial power in Utah shall
be  vested  in   a  Supreme Court, District Court
Probate Court and the Justice of the Peace."


Sec. 1,869. "The jurisdiction both appellate
and original o the courts provided for by sec-
tion 1,907 shall be limited by law."
Sec. 1,860. "Writs of error, bills of excep-
tions and appeals shall be allowed in all cases
from the final decisions of the District Court to
the Supreme Court of all the Territories, respec-
ively, under such regulations as may be provid-
ed by law, but in no case removed to the Su-
preme Court shall trial by jury be allowed in
that court."
Third section Judicial act.
"The District Court shall have exclusive
original jurisdiction in all suits and proceedings
in chancery, and in all actions at law in which
the sum or value of the thing in controversy
shall be $300 or upwards.
The Supreme Court in passing upon these
laws, in the decision cited, says:
"Regarding the acts of Congress as the Su-
reme law of the Territory having a controlling
power similar to, if not co-extensive with the
constitution of any particular State over their
respective Legislatures and judicial depart-
ments, we are forced to the conclusion that, in
so far as section 445 of our Practice Act, which
provides that the writ of mandamus may be is-
sued by any Coury of this Territory, except a
[-]ustice of the Peace, is in conflict with the acts
of Congress above referred to, it is wholly
inoperative and void.
The decision of the Coury is based upon the
theory that the Acts of Congress in reference
[--] the courts referred to, are paramount to all
territorial legislation. In this theory we now
oncur, and if there is any Congressional enact-
ment which has the effect of making inoperative
and void, Section 445 of the Practice Act, then
of course the Act is void. So far as it confers
upon this court power to issue mandamus ex-
cept in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction.
It is insisted that the third section of the Act
in relation to courts and judicial officers in the
Territory of Utah as above quoted, resolves that
question. To a certain extent said third section
has the effect of limiting the jurisdiction of
this court, but only to that certain extent. It
confers upon the District Court, exclusive, orig-
inal jurisdiction in all suits or proceedings in
chancery, and in all actions at law in which the
sum or value of the thing in controversy shall
-e three hundred dollars or upwards.
To determine therefore whther the Congres-
sional enactment destroys the Legislative en-
actment, we must look into the character of the
proceeding wherein the rule is sought to be ap-
plied. Clearly if the case is a suit or pro-
ceeding in chancery, then the exclusive ori-
ginal jurisdiction over it is in the District
Court; and if the case be an action at law to
which the sum or value of the thing in con-
troversy shall be three hundred dollars or up-
wards, then the exclusive original jurisdiction
over it is in the District Court.
But if it is not a suit [-]r proceeding in chan-
cery, or it is not a suit at law wherein the sum or
value of the thing in controversy is three hun-
dred dollars or upwards, then the District
Court does not by virtue of the third section
obtain the exclusive original jurisdiction. The
Poland Bill confers upon Justices of Peace,
jurisdiction in all cases where the debt or sum
claimed shall be less than three hundred
dollars, thus giving to Justices' Courts concur-
rent jurisdiction with the District Courts in
such cases where the amount in controversy is
less than three hundred dollars.
Sec. 445 of the Practice Act provides that the
writ of mandamus "may be issued by any court
-- this Territory, except a justice's to any in-
terior tribunal, corporation, board or person to
compel the performance of an act which the law
specially enjoins as a duty resulting from an
office, trust or station." Under this provision
the relator has applied to this court for the writ,
and the demurrer interposed to his complaint
and affidavit raises the jurisdictional question,
and in the resolving that question it becomes our
duty to apply the rule of construction heretofore
referredto. The case is not a suit or proceed-
ing in chancery, and therefore the District
Court has not exclusive original jurisdiction
over it, nor is the amount involved in it $300 or
upwards, nor is it less than $300.
It has no monied value whatever, and has no
element calling for the chancery powers of the
court, but it is of that class of cases in which
the practice act confers upon this Court, under
the broad term any court, jurisdiction to issue
writs of mandamus.
To my mind there is a wide difference in the
office of the two writs, viz., mandamus and
pertoirari.
	The former is termed in our statute a writ of
mandate an dthe latter is termed a writ of re-
view.
Clearly in the one case looking to the enforce-
ment of some act or duty refused to be done
by an officer in the execution of a trust which
by law he is required to do or perform.
In the other looking to certain proceedings
had by some inferior tribunal, wherein there is
alleged error or other informality in the proceed-
ing which the superior court issues the writ,
desires to review, to ascertain if or not error or
informality exists.
	In the case of the writ of certiorari, I have
no doubt of the power of this court to issue it
for the purposes prescribed by the statute.
In the case of the writ of certiorari, I have
no doubt of the power of this court to issue it
for the purposes prescribed by the statute.
	In the case of the writ of mandamus, I hold
it can only be issued in the particular cases pro-
vided by the statute, and that the statute limits
the power to issue it to such cases wherein
it is sought to compel the performance of any
act which the law specially enjoins as a duty
resulting from an office, trust or station.
This case is not of the kind here spoken of.
The officer against whom this writ is directed
has performed his duty. We are not called upon
to command him to do any duty he has failed or
refused to perform, but we are asked to compel
him to undo an act which the law compelled
him to do and he has done. This we cannot do.
The validity of the law which imposed the
duty upon the respondent to enter the names
of the persons named in the register, cannot
be brought into question in a proceeding of this
kind. We find that there is a law on our
statute books in reference to registration, com-
pelling the respondent to do what we are now
asked to compel him to undo. We cannot, for
the purposes of this proceeding inquire into
its validity. Having satisfied ourselves that
the duty required by the statute to be perform-
ed, has been performed, nothing is left for us to
do. The office of the writ is not to require the
respondent to do something not within the
scope of his official authority. Beyond that he
cannot go, and this court could not compel him
to exceed the functions of his office. In this
case it was the duty of the respondent to enter
 the names upon the register,and having so entered
them he could not afterwards legally erase them,
and if he could not, then this Court cannot
through the agency of the writ of mandamus
compel him to.
Section 2 of the act of Feb. 22, 1878, provides
that it shall be the duty of the Assessor of
each county in perosn, or by deputy, at the time
each year, beginning in 1879, to take up the
transcript of the next preceding Registration
List and proceed to the revision of the same,
and for this purpose he shall visit every dwell-
ing house in each precinct, and make careful
inquiryif any person, whose name is of his list,
has died or removed from the precinct, or is
otherwise disqualified as a voter of such precinct,
and if so, to erase the same therefrom, or
whether any qualified voter resides therein,
whose name is not on his list, and if so to add
the same thereto in the manner provided in
the preceding section.
The preceding section imposes upon the Regis-
tration Offices the duty of visiting every dwell-
ing, house in each precinct and of making care-
ful inquiry as to any or all persons entitled to
vote, and to ascertain upon what ground such
person claims to be a voter, and shall require
each person entitled to vote, and desiring to be
registered, to take and subscribe an oath, in
form, or substance as therein prescribed.
Section 3 provides that it shall be the duty of
wach Assessor in person or by deputy, during
the week commencing the first Monday in June
of each year at his office to enter on his Registry
List the name of any voter that may have been
omitted, on such voter appearing and comply-
ing with the provision of the first section of
this act required for voters for registration pur-
poses.
By Section four he is required, on the comple-
tion of this list, to make out a list, in alpha-
betical order, for each Precinct, and to deliver
the same on or before July first in each year,
with all the affidavits, to the Clerk of the County
Court.
Having performed the duties thus prescribed,
the functions of the Assessor cease, and he has
no further duty to perform in regard to that
Registration List, until the beginning of the
year 1880, and having for that year pursued the
same course, he has no further duty to perform
with the Registration List for 1880, until the
beginning of the year 1881, and the List for 1880
is the one from which it is now sought to have

[Column 3]
the erasure made. This same act of Feb'y 22,
1878, provides how the name of any person in
said Registration List may be stricken there-
from, and by whom it shall be done.
"Sec. 7. The Clerk of the County Court, shall
file, and carefully preserve all said affidavits and
Registry Lists and shall make a copy of each
Precinct Registry List, and cause the same to
be posted up at least 15 days before any election,
at or near the place of election, and shall make
and transmit another copy to the Judges of
Election.
Sec. 8.--The Clerk of the County Court, shall
cause to be printed or written a notice which
shall designate the offices to be filled, and
stating that the election will commence at
---------(designating the place for holding the
polls,) one hour after sunrise, and continue
until sunset on the-----------day of-------, 18—.
(Naming the day of election.)
 Dated at-------A, D. 18---.
Clerk of County Court.
A copy of which shall be posted up, at least
15 days before the election, in three public
places in said Precinct, best calculated to give
notice to all voters. It shall also be the duty of
the Clerk of the County Court to give notice on
the lists so posted, that the senior Justices of
the Peace for said Precinct will hear objections
the rhe right to vote, or any person registered, un-
til sunset of the fifth day preceding the day of-
election. Said objections shall be made by a
qualified voter in writing and delivered to the
said Justice who shall issue a written notice to
the person objected to, stating the place, day
and hour when the objection will be heard.
The person making the objection shall serve, or
caused to be served, said notice upon the person
objected to, and shall also make returns of such
service to the Justice before whom the objection
shall be heard. Upoln the hearing of the case, if
said Justice shall find that the person ob-
ject4ed to is not a qualified voter, he shall, within
three days prior to the election, transmit a certi-
fied list of the names of all such unqualified
persons, to the Judges of Election, and said
Judges shall strike such names from the Regis-
try List before the opening of the polls.
Granting that the issuance of this writ is with-
in the jurisdictional powers of this court, it is
the law that it can be directed to an officer to
compel him to do a mere ministrial act which
the relator has a right to have doen by him,
and as to which the officer has no discretion.
But it must be to compel him to do a mere min-
isterial act, and this act must be one which by
law he is required to perform and which he has
refued to do.
Chief Justice Taney in the case of The State of
Mississipi vs. Johnson 4. Wall 475 has given a
clear definition of a ministerial duty. He says:
"A ministerial duty, the performance of which
may, in proper cases, be required, is one in
which nothing is left to discretion. It is a simple,
definite duty, arising under circumstances ad-
mitted or proved to exist and imposed by law."
Are the duties required of the Assessor in
relation to registering persons and preparing the
Registra- tiou Lists, mere ministerial duties?
If they are, and he has refused or neglected to
perform them, he undoubtedly could be com-
pelled by mandamus to perform them. Fol-
lowing the definition given to "a ministerial
duty" as above quoted, these acts do not fall
within it. To be ministerial, nothing is to be
left to the discretion of the Assessor. In the case
at bar, one of the duties imposed upon the Asses-
sor is to ascertain upon what grounds any and
all persons claim to be voters, and he is further-
more required to make careful inquiry if any
person whose name is on the list has died or
removed from the precinct, or is otherwise dis-
qualified as a voter. These are all duties which
require investigation, research and opinion, dis-
cretion and consideration. He must form a
judgment and act upon that judgment and it is
incumbent upon him to exercise discretion
in arriving at that judgment. He has the
discretion upon the judgment formed by him
from the inquiries he is required to make, to
erase from the Registration List of the preced-
ing year any name that may be thereon. All
these acts are not therefore mere ministe-
rial duties, but are duties as to which the officer
has a discretion, and are therefore not such du-
ties which he can be compelled to   do through
the agency of the writ of mandamus.
	It was insisted in argument by counsel for
the relator, that the court has the power by
mandamus to compel the respondent to perform
an act not within the scope of his authority, if
his refusal to do the act would work an injury.


[Column 1]

	This court cannot impose a duty on an officer
which is not within the power imposed on him
by law. A mandamus will not be granted to
command any person to exercise a jurisdiction
which that person is not most clearly and cer-
tainly appointed to and bound by law to exer-
cise; for the court will not grant such writ ex-
cept it clearly see that there is a power lodged
in the person against whom the mandamus
is prayed."
	In annoucing this opinion on the question of
the right of this Court to issue the writ, His
Honor Judge Boreman concurs with Judge
Hunter, though upon other grounds, as would
appear from his opinion on file. Judge Emerson
does not agree with the majority of the Court
in this right, and hence dissents as to that
branch of the opinion. Judge Boreman dissents
from the majority of the Court in its opinion re-
fusing the writ,for the reasons stated in his opin-
ion on file.
	Judges Hunter and Emerson concur in refus-
ing the writ on the grounds stated in the major-
ity opinion.
	The demurrer is sustained.
		DISSENTING OPINION.
In the Swpreme Court of Utah Territory, June 
Term, 1880, adjourned to 25th September,
1880.

George R.  Maxwell,
	Plaintiff,
vs.
Robert T. Burton,
	Defendant.

AN APPLICATION FOR MANDAMUS.

	Boreman, Justice, delivered the following
opinion:
	As an original question, I have uniformly
been of the opinion thatthe Supreme Court had
no jurisdiction in such cases as this, except in
aid of its appellate powers. I have considered
that the Supreme Court had no distinctively
original jurisdiction, except in cases of habeas
corpus. The issuing of the mandamus as prayed
is an exercise of original jurisdiction. In the late
case of Emeline Young and others vs. George
Q. Cannon et al., this Court, after exhaustive
argument, declared that it had jurisdiction to
issue the writ of certiorari, which is an origi-
nal writ of the same class as that ofmandam-
us, and coming to us from the same source, the
King's Bench. I assumed that that decision was
to settle the practice, and that in this class of
cases, to which both certiorari and mandamus
belong, the Supreme Court would take jurisdic-
tion. I think it our duty now to stand by that
decision and not again unsettle the practice, as
I deem would be done if the writ were now de-
nied.
	Upon the merits of the case I cannot agree
with a majority of the Court. I deem this to
be a proper case in which to issue the writ. The
Legislature had no authority to allow anybody
to vote who were not citizens or who had not
declared their intentions to become such. It
has never enacted that parties who had declar-
ed their intentions to become citizens might
vote. Therefore the registering officer is not
authorized to allow anybody to vote who are
not citizens. The statute granting suffrage to
women allows them to vote without being citi-
zens if they are "the wife, widow or the daugh-
ter of a native-born or naturalized citizen."
Such a provision is utterly void, in my opinion,
and it is the duty of the registering officer to
obey the law of Congress and not that of the
Territory, when they conflict.
	The act conferring the elective franchise
upon women is unjust, as granting the franchise
to women upon easier terms than to males.
Men are required to be tax-payers by the stat-
ute, but not so with women; the men are all
required to be residents, but not so the women,
if they be the "wife, widow, or daughter;" and
all men who ask to vote must be citizens,or they
will be rejected, but not so with all women. This
matter of citizenship is important, when we
consider that the bulk of the population of this
Territory is of foreign birth, or children born in
this Territory of foreign parents. The statute
granting the elective franchise to women des-
troys the uniformity and impartiality which
should exist in regard to the qualifications of
voters, and the act which will do this is unjust
and ought not to be upheld. I do not think that
it will do to say that the requirement as to male
voters, which is not found amongst the require-
ments of the female voters, will be nugatory.
We have no right to conclude that this is so.

[Column 2]

The Legislature has expressed itself to the con-
trary. It first passed the statute allowing males
to vote, requiring them to be citizens, etc. It
afterwards passed the statute granting the
elective franchise to women, and subsequently it
enacts the registration law, wherein it retains all
the qualifications originally required as to male
voters. It certainly, therefore, had no intention
of repealing any part thereof. The two laws in
regard to suffrage show great unfairness and
lack of uniformity between the requirements
of male voters and those of female voters, but
as the Legislature so intended,what authority
have we to say that the one repeals the other.
This certainly does not exist by implieation as
they are statutes regarding different classes. The
two laws are not inconsistent further than that
one is unconstitutional, unjust and unfair to
the body of voters mentioned in the first,
and being so should not be upheld. If the Legis-
lature had power to make one set of qualifica-
tions for one class of voters and another set
for another class of voters, then the two laws
can stand,but if the Legislature has not such pow-
er, its attempt to do so is nugatory and void.
	For these reasons thus hastily stated I am un-
able to agree with my associates in denying the
writ in this case.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	Paris, Bear Lake Co. Idaho Territory, Sept.
7th 1880. Minutes of the fourth semi-annual
Conference of the Relief Societies of the Bear
Lake Stake of Zion, held in the St Charles
Meeting House Aug. 28th and 29th, 1880.
Saturday morning Aug. 28th 10 A. M. Pres-
ent Prest. Julia P. Lindsay with her Counselors
M. E. Collings M. M. Rich. President James
H. Hart,Elders Hugh Findly, W. M. Allred and
sevreal other brethren. Meeting called to or-
der by President J. P. Lindsay, choir sang 
“Come thou desire of all the Saints,” opening,
prayer by Elder W. M. Allred, Pres. J. P. Lind-
say made some very interesting remarks suited
to the occasion and expressed pleasure at see-
ing so many assembled together. Notwith-
standing the busy season, hoped they would
enjoy the spirit of God in their meetings dur-
ing Conference. The roll was called for the
Stake officers, also officers of branch Relief
Societies and Primary Associations. Minutes
of previous Conference read and accepted.
Statistical and Financial reports of Relief So-
cieties and Primary Associations also read.
Counselor Elizabeth Collings, advised the sisters
to stop fault-finding, build each other up and
work unitedly in building up God’s kingdom,
did not think it was advisable for those pro-
fessing to be Latter-day Saints to continue
moving from place to place, unless called upon
by the servants of God holding the holy priest-
hood. Then it was our duty to go whenever
wanted, and to do all that lay in our power to
build up and beautify the place designated.
Counseled them to attend their meetings.
Obey those placed to preside “Obedience is
better thnn sacrifice.” By attending to these
things we could claim the blessings of the Al-
mighty. Counselor Mariah Rich, in her re-
marks exhorted the sisters to be faithful in
keeping the covenants they, had made trust in
the Lord when they arose to speak and He
would put words into their mouths to the
edification of their hearers. Never partake of
the Sacrament with bad feelings against any
one; if there is any wrong try to make it right,
for all wrong must be righted either here or
hereafter. The choir sang an Anthem, “The
Lord is King.” Benediction by Prest. James
H. Hart.
	Saturday at 2 P. M., after the usual exercises
of singing and prayer the Presidents of the
various branches gave verbal reports of their
respective societies which were very satisfactry.
President Lindsay spoke at some length on the
duties of parents and children, hoped the sisters
would be liberal in donating of their abundence
to help build temples, gather the poor, sustain

[Column 2]
the needy that were in our midst and do all the
good that lay in their power whenever an op-
portunity presented itself. Contrasted the con-
dition of the Saints in these valleys with those
who lived in Nauvoo; who in poverty and sick-
ness, through diligence and faithfulness built
a temple to the Lord. And that we who were
so abundantly blessed and prospered could do a
great amount of good if we would.
	Mrs. Emeline Rich said her hopes and desires
were with the Church and always had been;
felt interested in everything that was calculated
to forward the work of God, was pleased to see
the progress the sisters were making and the
amount of good they were doing. Prest. James
H. Hart encouraged the sisters very much in
his remarks and commended them for the good
work they had done, approved of the active
part they had taken in gleaning and saving
grain. Also for the hats they were beginning
to make, hoped they would continue to improve
in every thing that was calculated to build up
the kingdom of God. Singing. Benediction.
	Sunday morning Aug 29th, 10 A. M., meet-
ing opened in the usual manner. The Y. L.
M. I. A., occupied the forenoon.
	Sunday afternoon Aug. 29th, 2 P. M., meet-
ing opened with singing and prayer. Sacra-
ment administered, after these services were
over, the Presidents of Primary Associa-
tions reported verbally, each showing that
much good is resulting amongst the children
attending those meetings. Pres. Lindsay said,
she had listened with great pleasure to the
remarks made by the young ladies; also to hear
of so much good resulting among the children
through the diligent labors of presidents and
other officers of these organizations, counseled
mothers to do all that lay in their power to send
their children to the meetings; showed the nec-
essity of our becoming self-sustaining; gave
valuable instructions to presidents and officers
of Relief Societies and Primary Associations
regarding their respective duties. Enjoined
upon the sisters the necessity of taking the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT and the good they
would derive from reading its pages; also that
other church publications should be patronized
more than they were. Mrs. Alice M. Rich
tendered her resignation as Stake Secretary for
Relief Societies, which was accepted and a vote
of thanks given her for the able and efficient
manner in which she attended to the duties of
Secretary while acting in that office. Mrs.
Elizabeth Pugmire, was appointed Secretary
for Relief Soeieties in Bear Lake Stake and
Mrs Annie Laker Stake President. for Primary
Associations, Mrs. Elizabeth Pugmire and Mrs.
Elizabeth Hunt, her Counselors; Miss Luana
Booth, Secretary; Miss Charlotta Hunt Treas-
urer. Conference adjorned for six months.
Choir sang Anthem “Awake put on thy strength
O Zion,” &c. Benediction by James H. Hart.
 	 Statistical and Financial report of the
Relief Societies of Bear Lake Stake from their
first organizatiou Aug. 28th, 1868. to Aug.
28th, 1880. 
	Statistical: teachers, 126; members 396;
total officers and members,559; meetings held,
801; average attendance, 207; church papers
taken 115; WOMEN'S EXPONENT 38.
	Financial: Receipts in cash,$760,78 receipts
in property, $1720,79; wheat gleaned and
donated by members, bushels 547, lbs. 46; dis-
bursed, cash to the needy, $21,76; home indus-
tries, 86,92; emigration, 127,30; missionaries,
69,50; temple, 85,20; books, 26,47; total, $417,
15; property to the needy, 617,19; temple
504,43; missionaries, 10,40; home industries,
590; total, $1137,92; on hand: cash 343,63;
property,582,87; wheat,bushels 547, lbs. 46.
	E. PUGMIRE Sec.


ELEVEN States have School Suffrage, and
Lucy Stone says all of them on a broader scale
than Massachusetts.


80	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE  BRIGHAM  YOUNG  ACADEMY

(CONCLUDED.)

	When  this  exercise  is  finished, in  this  de-
partment, as in all the others, the signal is given
and  the  pupils proceed with the  usual  studies
of  the  day.  As  a  teacher,  Brother  Milton
H. Hardy has proven  one of the most efficient
we have ever had in our Territory. His order,
system,  and  method  of  arousing  the  latent
powers of his pupils, filling  all with a keen de-
sire to excel, is something  that  strikes all who
take  the  trouble to sound his pupils, or listen
to his instructions in the schoolroom. Like the
snow upon the  mountain,  which sinks into the
thirsty earth, to burst forth in the pleasant  val-
ley  below  into  a  living  spring  of  sparkling
water, do  we  behold  the  fruits  of  such  labor
bestowed upon our children.
	Let us take our place in the room where the
Principal  of  this  Academy is  imparting to his
scholars  the  words  of inspiration  and  truth
with which he is ever endowed. Monday and
Thursday the Book of Mormon is taken as the 
text. Its origin and  value are fully  explained,
together with the wondrous manner in which it
was  brought forth—these are  laid before the
school. Everything is based  upon our faith in
God, the spirit of order, truth, and an exalting
of our fallen natures is instilled into the mind
of all. As  Brother Maeser  has  unlimited con-
fidence  in  his  scholars, each  one tries to keep
that confidence alive, and the only punishment
which  is  ever  administered is the thought that
this sacred confidence is gone,
	The theology  exercises,  as  given  by  him,
take  the  most  essential  points  taught in  the
New Testament and  Book  of Mormon;  also  a
portion  of  each  Wednesday  as a  grand theo-
logical  class, where  students  are  called  upon
for exercises from sacred works, bearing of tes-
timony and essays upon good subjects.
	He also  teaches  the  higher  branches  of
science, such  as  Latin, Botany,  Geology  &c.;
Mathematics  are  taught by Prof. Booth;  Sur-
veying,  Trigonometry  and  Phonography  by
Prof. Hardy.
	This is  only a bird's  eye  view of the labors
done  in  one  department, and I will  leave oth-
ers to tell the rest, with the  addition  of music,
	My brief  review  of  the  Theological  depart-
ment of the Academy must  be  understood  by
my  sisters  as  only  one  pillar  of  education
adopted here, but  it  is the most important and
receives the most  thought  from  the  teachers.
And  if  you, my dear  sisters, could  behold the
scene  as I  do  from  day  to  day, the  gradual
awakening  of  the  truth  of  this  great  work
upon the minds of the children of the Latter-
day  Saints, you  would  say "Glory  to  God,"
that we  have  such  an  institution in our midst,
where your children and mine can drink in and
receive  of the  blessing of a  testimony and  as-
surance  of the  true  object  of  life.  Will  you
help  sustain it by  your  faith  and  prayers, as
well  as  by  the  attendance  of your  children,
when possible?
	One word for the  Normal.  In  this  depart-
ment  is  brought  to  bear  the  experience  of a
teacher who has been teaching school for about
thirty years, and  the  system,  together with the
practical workings  of  school  teaching  is  so
thorough  and  complete  that  the  influence  of
those who  graduate here  is  already being  felt
and  appreciated by all who have  opened their
schools to them. 	
	Besides the watchful  care  extended  over
each one in school, there is  a  domestic  depart-
ment instituted, with strict regulations as to the
hours kept  by  those  who  attend, and  a  visit
from either a teacher or an  old  student once a
week, to find if  all things are agreeable between
host and hostess and boarders.  Thus  securing
n  almost  fraternal  care  over  those  who are
way from home, and  keeping  bnt  one  object
in  view,  the  elevating  of  God's  children  on
earth, and securing their eternal salvation.
Z. Y. Williams.


WE are proud and happy to be able to state
that Hon. George Q, Cannon has accepted the
nomination tendered him at the late Territo-
rial Convention. We are very sorry we have
not space to publish the letter of the committee
and his reply. Personally he is highly respect-
ed in Washington, as well as in Utah; it is the
people he represents against whom so much
prejudice exists. He will go to Congress with
the sincere esteem of the people who will have
cast their votes for him, and the full and im-
plicit confidence that he will maintain un-
flinchingly the dignity of his position, as the
representative of the rights of the whole peo-
ple of Utah Territory.


LUCY Stone of Boston one of the most truly
liberal minded women of the age, has written a
concise but able article in the "Woman's
Journal," Oct. 9, on the recent attempt to dis-
franchise the women of Utah. She strikes at
the root of the matter when she says, "It would
certainly never have been attempted if these
citizens had not been Mormons." Good for
this brave noble woman. We shall not forget
her courageous words.


[Column 1]
DR.  ELLIS  R. SHIPP.
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
	OFFICE in Bishop Hunter's old residence, between Z. C. M.
I. and the National Bank.
	RESIDENCE 11th Ward, 7th East Street, between South and
1st South Streets, west side of street.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

THE LADIES
Of Salt Lake  City and vicinity will find  the  LARGEST and
BEST SELECTED  STOCK of
BOOTS, SHOES  &  SLIPPERS,
Also, full and desirable  lines, best brands
Children's  Fine  Shoes,
To be found in the West. ☞ Your Orders are Solicited.
GEO. DUNFORD.

WARNER'S
[image of a safe] SAFE 
BITTERS
	It is the best Blood Purifier, and stimulates
every function to more healthful action, and is
thus a benefit in all diseases.
	In eliminating the impurities of the blood, the
natural and necessary result is the cure of Scrof-
ulous and other Skin Eruptions and Diseases,
including Cancers, Ulcers and other Sores.
Dyspepsia, Weakness of the Stomach, Consti-
pation. Dizziness,  General  Debility,  etc., are
cured by the Safe Bitters.  It is unequaled
as an appetizer and regular tonic.
It is a medicine which should be in every fam-
ily, and which, wherever used, will save the
payment of many doctors' bills.
	Bottles of two sizes; prices, 50. cents and $1.00.
SAFE
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE
SAFE
DIABETES CURE
SAFE TONIC NERVINE PILLS
READ! Save Thyself
☞ Warner's
Safe Reme-
dies are sold
by  Druggists
and  Dealers
in Medicine
everywhere.
H.H. WANRER & CO.
Proprietors,
Rochester, N.Y.
☞ Send for Pamphlet
and Testimonials.

[Column 2]
Class in  Obstetrics.
DR. ROMANIA B PRATT,
WILL COMMENCE  ANOTHER  CLASS  IN OBSTET-
rics, October 7th, 1880.  By giving three lectures
a week, and the students giving  their whole time to study,
the usual term of six months can be reduced to a little less
than five.  ☞ Terms, $30. Books, three in number $12.
  Those desiring to Join the Class should send  in their names
and orders for books, as they require to be sent for East.
F.  AUERBACH  &  BRO.
HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos. 124 &126
CALL AND EXAMINE. 
Fall and  Winter GOODS.
ELLEN B.  FERGUSON,
Physician  and Surgeon.
	OFFICE on Main St., over Calder's Music Store.
RESIDENCE  on  South  Temple Street, between  9th and
10th East Streets.
Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases  of  Children
and  Diseases  of  the THROAT,  HEART and LUNGS.
	DAVID JAMES,
TINNER, CAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

Agent tor RUMSEY'S celebrated  LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired  on  short notice.  Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
  Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
PALACE  OF  FASHION, No. 17  EAST  TEMPLE ST.
	MRS. C.  E.  DYE,
Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also,  a  nice  selection  in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes; Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and stripes.  Country Dealers, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches.  Good  Work  Guaranteed !
	Z. O. M.  I.
WHOLESALE  AND  RETAIL DEALERS
Dry GOODS,  NOTIONS, GROCERIES.
 HEAVY &  SHELF  HARDWARE,
GLASS  &  QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL  IMPLEMENTS, ETC,
AT TEASDEL'S
	SALT LAKE CITY. 
Special Departments for  Gent's  Clothing  and
Carpets, Ladies and Children’s Shoes,  Dry
Goods, Shawls  and  Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S.  P.  TEASDEL.
A  LARGE STOCK
Of Home  Made  Trunks  for Sale; by  JOHN C. 
CUTLER, Agent tor the  PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also  HOME Made

Blankets,
Flannels,
Shawls,
Linseys,
Jeans,

Brown Yarns,
White Yarns,
Colored Yarns,
Cassimers,
Tweeds,

Cotton Batting,
Wool Batting,
Brooms, 
Washboards,
Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND  RETAIL  DEALER  IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING  BEDS,  WIRE  MATTRESSES,  FEATHERS,  WALL PAPER
		AND
BABY CARRIAGES,
75,  77,  &  79,  First  South Street,
	SALT LAKE  CITY.
DR.  A.  B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST,
SPECIAL ATTENTION, PAID
to Filling and Preserving  the
Natural  teeth.  Teeth  Carefully
Extracted.  FALSE TEETH  inserted
from one tooth to a FullSet in the
Most Approved Manner.  PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE—MAIN ST. OPPOS'ITE SALT  LAKE HOUSE.
		P.O.	BOX, 541,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

