VOL. 9.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1880.		No. 5.


[Column 1]
FAITH AND WORKS.

	"Faith cometh by hearing the Word of God.—Doc-
trine and Covenants.

See! the wilds, so long forsaken, into life and bloom
	awaken—
'Tis the meed of Faith unshaken, the reward of labor
	too.
Faith hath wrought this exultation, for the "outcasts'
	of the nation;
Yea, through Faith "God favors Zion"—Faith and Works
	can wonders do.

Ah, this Faith! Can words express it? Can the jeers of
	foes suppress it?
'Tis superior to language, far above reproach and scorn;
'Tis indeed the blest assurance, that for patient, brief
	endurance,
We shall reap the full fruition of the hopes within us
	born,

'Tis in vain men cry "delusion," souls are thrilled with
	Faith's infusion,
Faith reanimates the spirit, as the life blood cheers the
	heart;
Needful 'tis that we obtain it, needful 'tis that we re-
	tain it—
Though we never can explain it, Fath doth power and
	peace impart.

Fath's the fruit of revelation, Faith's the anchor of
	salvation:
Faith obtains from God a knowledge of the truth that
	cheers the soul;
Faith's the true appreciation of Christ's love and media-
	tion;
Faith's the force of Truth within us, Faith's the power
	that makes us whole.

For this Faith it is no wonder, men have e'en been torn
	asunder,
Men have "cru'lly been tormented," scorning to accept
	reprieve,
Knowing (though by fiends surrounded) that in truth
	their faith was founded—
Scorn'd they to deny for freedom what they could not
	but believe;

By the ladder of affliction—sword, and fire, and cruci-
	fixion—
For their Faith, by deaths most tortuous noblest souls
	have upward soar'd—
Passed these martys up to glory, leaving us their death-
	less story,
While they cry, How long, Thou just One, ere Thy
	vengeance is outpour'd?

Of eternal condemnation there's a fearful reservation
For the murderers of these just ones, of these brave,
	illustrious dead!
Read we from the sacred pages, how that from remotest
	ages,
From the death of "righteous Abel," many for their
	faith have bled.So, within this generation, by a free and favor'd nation,
Prophets have for faith been murder'd, men have sorely
	been opprest;
For their Faith—through much privation—"sought they
	out a habitation,"
Even in a distant desert, in the wild, uncultured west.
Sheltered by majestic mountains, lo! they drank from
	freedom's fountains;
Blest with liberty, they-labor'd, 'reft of much that men
	desire;
Faith, by willing hands assisted, every obstacle resisted.
Faith in God and in the future still these exiles hearts
	inspire.

Faith shall make the Saints victorious, Faith shall make
	them great and glorious;
God Himself will watch keep o'er us, righteous laws
	we'll still obey;
Men may form their own deductions, why we honor God's
	instructions,

[Column 2]
Still we'll pray for Faith to serve Him though opposing
	hosts say nay—
Faith to brave the world's opinion, till the glory and
	dominion
And the greatness of "the Kingdom" shall be given the
	Saints for aye.
					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
	S. L. City, July 24, 1880.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

	This eminent and highly cultured lady is
perhaps more widely known,here and abroad,
than any women in the Church of Latter-day
Saints. She occupies the highest position
among the sisters, and may with all propriety
be designated, "The Elect Lady." Sister Eliza
is a woman of the strongest mental powers; of
sterling and unflinching integrity, and is val-
iant for the cause of truth and liberty. In fact
no better type can be given of historically famous
Pilgrim mothers, than the remarkable woman
whose life and works form the subject of this
sketch. She possesses in a high degree the
same striking energy of character, tenacity of
purpose and perseverance under accumulated
difficulties as the heroic foremothers of New
England, from whom she is descended, Indus-
try and economy have gone hand in hand with
her through life. She may justly be termed a
disciplinarian; is ever punctual to a moment,
has order very largely developed and remark-
able power of concentration, combined with
excellent ability; these with almost perfect self-
control, great decision of character and a reso-
lute will make her pre-eminently a leader. Jus-
tice is one of her strong points and she often
says "Justice before mercy."	In any age or in any country she must have
been a superior woman, but with the peculiar
experiences of Mormonism, she is lifted far
above anything she could possibly have at-
tained in the world. One of the most powerful
attributes of her nature is a sublime reverence
for the Deity and all that pertains to religion
and an exalted life. This combined with her
other qualifications for leadership peculiarly fit
her for the high and holy callings of Priestess
and Mother in Israel in the new and last dis-
pensation. Not only has she been elected by
the people and ordained and set apart to ex-
pound the Scriptures and preside over the
sisters in their various organizations by the
Servant of God, who holds the office of Prophet,
Seer and Revelator, to the Church of Christ
here upon the earth, but she has been baptized
as by fire and sanctified through suffering of
the keenest and severest character. These try-
ing ordeals have lifted her into the atmosphere
of a higher life, and consecrated and endowed
her for her ministerial work in the broadest
fields of labor, the hearts and homes of the
people.
	Think not gentle friends that this exclusive
devotion to the interests of the kingdom of God,
bringing this heroic woman as it does constantly
out before the public,is unaccompanied by daily
sacrifice. Her heart has the same holy aspira-
tions, the same tender womanly sympathies and
appreciations of the enjoyments of home and its
solid attractions, as that of her sister woman;
but these must not, she will not suffer them to
come between her and her life-work. She is
wedded to her sacred and holy mission: to

[Column 2]
minister to humanity in every condition of life
where woman can comfort, bless, sustain and
elevate.
	I have said so much of Sister Eliza not for
those who know her intimately, but who hear
of her as a representative woman and know
little of her real self and her individual life.
	Eliza Roxie Snow was born in Becket, Berk-
shire Co. Mass. Her parents were Oliver Snow
of Mass., and Rosetta Leonora Pettibone of
Conn. They were of English descent their
forefathers emigrating to America at a very
early period. In 1806 Mr. Snow moved with
his family to Ohio, and settled in Mantua
Portage Co. Being a man of sound judgment
and good ability as well as education he filled
several offices of emolument and trust in the
gift of the people, his daughter Eliza at quite
an early age officiating as his secretary. Mrs.
Snow like a wise and judicious mother deter-
mined her daughters should be instructed in
everything pertaining to domestic life and its
duties, and consequently Eliza though naturally
a gifted child and inclined to literary pursuits
was early initiated in all the routine and small-
est details of housekeeping, as well as plain and
ornamental needle work of which she still pre-
serves many rare specimens. She also learned
straw-braiding and was awarded two prizes at
the County Fair for the manufacture of the
best leghorn. Through this sort of training
she became practically selfhelpful. While quite
young Miss Snow commenced writing for the
press, and contrary to most young writers, her
poems were well received. She wrote for sev-
eral journals using a fictitious signature desir-
ing to be useful, but modestly shrinking from
public notice. Through writing a patriotic
poem at the time of the struggle between
Greece and Turkey she created quite a sensa-
tion. It was entitled "The Fall of Missilong-
hi;" and after the death of those famous states-
men Adams and Jefferson, which occurred on
the same day, she was requested through the
press to write their requiem. Shortly after she
received for a prize poem, eight volumes of
Godey's Lady's Book. Miss Snow's poems
have ever been of a prophetic and inspirational
character, and after partaking of the spirit of
the true Gospel she became more than before
richly endowed with the gift of poesy, inspira-
tion and prophecy, and her hymns and songs
have been such a feature of beauty in the
Church, that from an early period in its history
she has borne the title of "Poetess of Zion."
	We shall not attempt to give even in brief a
synopsis of the lady's writings—suffice it to say
she has immortalized her name, and crowned
with wreaths of honor, she might justly say
with the immortal Byron in his famous prayer
"I've lived the laurel wreath to gain." Her
poems have given comfort to the weary, encour-
agement to the weak and those whose burdens
were heavy and whose trials were grievous;
they have strengthened the hands and hearts
of pioneer men and women while enduring
severe hardships. They have stimulated the
young to nobler and higher purposes. Histori-
cally they have been of the greatest import-
ance. Through them the names of many of
the actors in the drama of Mormonism, will
be handed down to posterity. There has
scarcely been an event in the history of the
Church which has not been faithfully deline-
ated by her gifted pen. She was to use her
own expression, born a patriot, "she had that
sort of blood in her veins. Her grandfather


had been a revolutionary soldier; and when
quite young, she listened with intense and child-
ish eagerness to his thrilling, adventurous nar-
ratives of the war with the British. She has
written many patriotic and national poems,
Anthems and Choruses.
	In her writings both in prose and poetry, she
manifests a striking versatility of genius and a
happy faculty of adaptation to the various cir-
cumstances and conditions of human life at
times participating in the deepest sentiments of
sorrow and also with sublime ideality feasting
upon the perfection of enjoyment.
	Two volumes of her "Religious, Historical,
Political," poems have been published–the First
in Liverpool, England, in 1856, the Second in
Salt Lake City by the Deseret News Office,
which has just issued her Hymn Book for the
Primary Associations, which contains 20 hymns
from her pen, the others she has carefuly com-
piled from various authors,many from our own
poets—the remainder from foreign publications.
Sterotyped 1st. 7000 Edition.
	Her poems are true to life.—Those in her
published volumes addressed to pioneers and
those written during the drivings and journey-
ings of the Saints from place to place are some
very pathetic;—they come vividly home to the
hearts of the L. D. Saints. Two of this class
in Vol. 1, written after we left Nauvoo in the
bleak winter season, entitled "Camp of Israel"
describe minutely the condition of the Pilgrim
Saints. We should never let our children for-
get them. Poems like these make deeper and
more lasting impressions upon the memory
than whole volumes of history.

To be Continued.


34		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
[Column 1]
had a friend in whom she reposed great con-
fidence, living in a town about thirty miles
away, the wife of a clergyman, who had no
daughter of her own, and whose superior edu-
cation and accomplishments would be a great
advantage to Hepsie in developing her un-
formed character, and so 'twas settled at home
with the family, and preparations were rapidly 
made for the journey. Letters were inter-
changed between Mrs. H. and Mrs. G., and
the latter was given instructions in regard to 
discipilining the mind and character of the
eccentric child whose guidance she was about
to undertake. The new dresses and other
wearing apparel awakened but little interest
in this unsophisticated child, but the thought
of leaving the dear old places, the familiar
scenes where she had spent her happy child-
hood almost overcame her and she wept bitter-
ly when she was reminded that she was going
among strangers. However, she was just 
beginning to learn that life was not all made
up of fancies, and indeed the death of her
grandfather had worked a radical change in 
the tenor of her thoughts. She was more
serious and contemplative and earth was not
quite so rosy-hued nor the future so unreal as
heretofore. 
	One delightful May morning when the
lilacs were in bloom, and the fragrance of the
apple blossoms sweet upon the air, she dressed
herself with more than usual care, for this was 
to be her advent out into the great world,
albeit only to an adjoining town, whither she
had never been. She tripped lightly down
the stairs though her heart was sad, and out 
into the grove at the back to say adieu to the
trees and rocks, and brook for she had loved
them all with a childish simplicity. She
gathered a bunch of violets and pinning
them daintily on her black dress, she went in 
to say good-bye to the brothers and sisters 
weeping bitterly all the time. Her breakfast
was untasted, though the choicest morsels had 
been prepared for her, and a nice lunch for
the journey. Gloomy forebodings were in her
mind at the thoughts of leaving her dear ones, 
and going forth alone. She had never seen
Mrs. G., and the idea she formed of her was
not at all prepossessing. Finally the moment
came, the sound of the carriage wheels and
the lumbering old coach drove up, Hepsie
kissed them all good-bye and climbed into the
stage, her eyes full of tears and her throat
with sobs; the driver cracked his whip with a 
great flourish, and the four fine horses darted
forward down the road. Looking out back of 
the coach window, she saw her stately undemon-
strative mother going up the lilac walk slowly, 
and wiping her eyes with her apron. 
	Hepsie was rather glad her mother wept, 
for she thought grown women never cried, 
except when some one was dead. Her own 
tears were falling fast, but childish grief is 
not of long duration, and she soon forgot her
trouble in the excitement of the journey, the
lovely scenery through which they were pass
ing and the strange faces around her. 
	There were two or three other passengers
and one old lady in green spectacles, who asked
Hepsie inquisitively where her mother was; 
then seeing the black crape on her dress she
said, "O your mother's dead, poor thing! and 
I s'pose your going to your rich relations."
"My mother isn't dead, and I'm going to 
school, and I haven't any relatives except my
uncle and cousins in Boston, and they are too 
proud to care for us! I hate my uncle any-
way, for he has locked up my grandpa's house, 
and says he'll have it pulled down; and that's 
the reason I'm sent away, because I cried so
much for grandpa and the old house."
	"Well, well to be sure what a chatterbox,"
and added the old lady, "you'll soon forget all
about it." "No, I sha'n't" said Hepsie, "he 
was the grandest man you ever saw;" "I never

[Column 2]
saw him," said the lady. "Well, if you ever
had seen him, you would think so, ane every-
body at the 'Old Furnace' thought so," "Well, 
I never," said the green spectacled lady again; 
"what are you talking about, the Old Fur
nace?" Was Major Hathaway your grand-
father, the man who owned the old factory at B?"
"Well, I do declare; no wonder you thought 
him grand, why everybody in these parts
knew him; and as for his wife, though she
died long ago, when I was a little girl I almost
worshiped her. She was a rare beauty, but
what an ugly name she had, Hephizbah."
"That's my name," said the child quickly, "but
they call me Hepsie nowadays?" "Well?
well! I never did," the old lady repeated
again and again, under her breath. "Why he
was very old, ninety-six or seven he must have
been."
	Hepsie had wakened early that morning and
she had become so exhausted with crying that 
after answering many more of the lady's in-
terrogations she fell fast asleep in the coach 
and forgot her great sorrow. 
	It was late in the afternoon ere they reached
the place of destination, and the old lady in 
the green spectacles had been put down at one
of the towns on the way. The stage driver had
been directed where to leave Hepsie, and ar-
riving at the parsonage just outside the centre 
of the town of M., he stopped and lifted the 
little girl out. Mrs. G. was in waiting, and
came out to meet her; the driver lifted down 
the little hair trunk, that contained Hepsie's
wardrobe and carried it up the steps. She 
had never been away from home alone before
and was so timid that she trembled with fright, 
besides she had been forewarned that she 
could not "put on airs" with Mrs. Grovesner. 
The lady inquired kindly if she were tired, 
and asked concerning her mother's health, and
then ushered her into a large, square, sitting-
room, so antique and curious in style, as to 
cause her to compare it with grandpa's dining-
room in the old, old house, from which she
was now as she believed shut out forever. 
Everything was bewilderingly strange. After
partaking some refreshment as it was not time
for "tea," Hepsie walked out into the garden, 
and there again she was reminded of the farm. 
The shrubbery was charming, and the apple-
blossoms, dainty perfume scented all the air; 
the ground was covered with pretty pink and
white leaves, and the garden seemed like a 
fairy bower. 
	The house itself viewing it from the out-
side was quite as romantic as the one she 
had loved so well, and Hepsie found her-
self wondering if the long dark passages
under the sloping sides of the gambrel-roof,
contained as many old papers as there was at
her grandfather's, and if so, whether Mrs. 
Grovesner would let her rummage them over, 
and sit and read all day in the garret as she
used to do sometimes in the past. When night
came the house seemed gloomy and Hepsie 
wondered and was awed by the stillness, for at 
home the children made merry music with 
their chatter and laughter. The minister for
the husband of Mrs. Grovesner was the Rev.
Erasmus Grovesner, looked very solemn and
spoke only to "Deborah," for so he designated
his wife, and Hepsie queried whether he loved
her, he spoke so coldly; for the child had heard
her grandpa talk a great deal about love, and
of his undying love for her grandmother; and
though she could not know exactly what love
meant, still it embodied her childish idea of
true happiness. Mrs. G. was occupied with
some plain needle work, and Hepsie scarcely
knew what to do with her hands; and was
very restless; besides she wanted to ask a lot
of questions, but she dare not for the silence
to her was something painful. Finally prayer
was offered in such a stately way, and not the
least impressive to the child, and Hepsie was 

[Column 3]
informed it was time for her to retire. Mrs.
Grovesner showed her to a little low chamber, 
a long way from the sitting room, and the
hall and stairways were so dark, that she 
shivered with fear for she was in some respects
a coward; and the stories of ghosts and giants
were vivid in her mind. The woman took no
notice of the child, she had been requested to 
discipline her, and considered this was the
proper course to take, and, it required firmness
and she was just the one to undertake such a 
task. 	
	The little room was still as the grave, 
and the bed looked as though no one had ever
slept in it, Mrs. G. put the candle down and 
said "good night," and in a moment Hopsie
fell to soliloquizing as usual, "I'm sure I can't 
sleep, what a dismal place this is, how quiet
and gloomy. So this is the beginning of the
discipline mother said Mrs. G. would give me;"
and by this time she had burst into tears, 
childish relief, and ofttimes a blessed relief to 
older children too, when the heart is full to 
overflowing. Poor Hepsie imagined herself
cruelly treated, and at once conceived the idea
of writing her life and making this the first 
chapter. She repeated over and over the mul-
tiplication table and then all the verses she
knew, and while thus engaged fell fast asleep. 
		[To be continued.]

THE LADY DOCTORS OF INDIA. 
	"The Englishman's Overland Mail" says:
In India lady doctors are now familiar to us, 
and although at first they may have been 
somewhat ridiculed by those who could not
appreciate their value, they are fast making
their presence felt for good almost in every
corner of the land. So far as the native
women of this country are concerned, it is 
gratifying to note that their success in all
branches of college education is progressing to 
the entire satisfaction of their professors. 
Not only have they proved themselves to be
generally well fitted for the arduous duties at-
tendant on medical studies, but they have in 
some cases succeeded beyond all ordinary ex-
pectation. Bombay, Madras, the North West
Provinces, and the Punjaub all return flatter-
ing reports on the subject, and when we say 
that a class of female students can average
over 700 marks out of 1,000 in a surgical ex-
amiantion, as we hear has recently been the
case, little can be said against their power, or
skill, or aptitude for gaining knowledge in one
of the most important branches of the medical
profession. Indeed, it appears not unlikely
that women in India may prove themselves by
no means inferior to men in most branches of
the practice of medicine, if the progress made
by native females in hospital work may be
taken as a criterion. In many cases they have
proved themselves superior to male students
in college examinations, and in no way behind
them in application, power of reasoning and
resource. The fact that much of their success
is due to the great interest taken in their
studies by their lecturers and professors is not
without a certain special significance. 
	
	The golden moments in the stream of life
rush past us, and we see nothing but sand; the
angels come to visit us, and we only know them 
when they are gone.— George Eliot.
	Run not into debt, either for wares sold or
money borrowed; be content to want things
that are not of absolute necessity rather than
to run up the score.—Sir M. Hale. 
	Our brains are seventy-year clocks. The
angel of life winds them up once for all, then
closes the case and gives the key into the hands
of the angel of the resurrection.


34		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
NOTES AND PARAGRAPHS.

OF SERVICES IN TABERNACLE.

	Elder Orson Pratt delivered the following
speech concerning the Restoration of the Ever-
lasting Gospel and its progress among the na-
tions:

CHRONOLOGICAL STATISTICS.

	"In the Spring of 1820 the Father and Son
appeared in vision to Joseph Smith, Jr., in the
town of Manchester, Ontario County, New
York. Joseph was a youth of the age of four-
teen, and in this vision received a promise that,
if faithful, further light should be revealed to
him.
In fulfillment of this promise, on the morning
of the 22d of September, 1827, an holy angel
permitted this youth to take from tne hill Cu-
morah, in the township alluded to, ancient
records, which, by the command of God, he
translated through the aid of a sacred instru-
ment, anciently called the "Urim and Thum-
mim." In 1829, these metallic plates and sa-
cred things were shown to three witnesses by
an angel from heaven, and confirmed to many
others who saw and handled the plates. Five
thousand copies of this inspired translation
were printed and bound early in the year 1830.
On the 15th of May, 1829, John, the fore-
runner of Christ, appeared in glory to Joseph
Smith, Jr., and Oliver Cowdery, and laying
his hands upon their heads, ordained them to
the Aaronic priesthood, with authority to bap-
tize for the remission of sins.
	And in the same year three of the ancient
Apostles, Peter, James and John, ordained Jo-
seph Smith, Jr., and Oliver Cowdery to the apos-
ship, with power to confirm by the laying on
of the hands, for the reception of the Holy
Ghost.
	On the 6th of April, 1830, the Prophet Jo-
seph Smith being commanded of God, organ-
ized the Church of Christ, consisting of six
members. This infinitely important event took
place in Fayette, Seneca County, State of New
York.

[Column 2]
	Thus the Gospel, and the Church with divine
authority, were restored from heaven to earth.
Angels were the first missionaries. Men, in-
spired from on high, carried the message to our
own nation. The Saints in 1831, by divine
command, began to gather, first to Ohio, and
then to the western boundaries of Missouri.
Persecuted, robbed and murdered, they fled to
Illinois, and built the city of Nauvoo. In
1846 they were driven by armed mobs, and
compelled to flee west of the Rocky Mountains,
and sought refuge in the great American des-
ert, then a Mexican province."

SPREAD OF THE GOSPEL.

	Elder Pratt then gave the data of the intro-
duction of the Gospel among the American
Indians and into the Dominion of Canada, the
Kingdom of Great Britain, including England,
Scotland, Ireland, Wales, and the Isle of Man,
also Orson Hyde's pilgrimage to Jerusalem,
and afterwards followed the countries of Aus-
tralia, the East Indies, South Sea Islands,
France, Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Ice-
land, Italy and Switzerland, Jersey Islands,
Sandwich Islands, Germany, Malta, Cape of
Good Hope and Holland. Each of these na-
tions were represented by a man and woman in
the costume of their respective country, with a
shield containing the national colors.
	When Elder Pratt had finished speaking,
the nationalities arose and stepped forward in
a line, facing the congregation, with their ban-
ners displayed, twenty-five in number.
	President Taylor, rising behind them, made
the following remarks:
	"I wish to state to the congregation that the
Lord commanded his servants to go forth to
all the world to preach the Gospel to every
creature. We have not yet been to all the
world, but here are twenty-five nations repre-
sented to-day, and thus far we have fulfilled
our mission; and it is for us to continue our
labors until all the world shall hear us, that all
who are desirous may obey, and we fulfill the
mission given us."
	The nationalities then resumed their seats,
and the choir rendered the grand and beautiful
anthem, "Glory to God in the highest." Col.
David McKenzie then took the stand and read,
in a very effective manner, a poem, composed
for the occasion by O. F. Whitney.

SENTIMENT FROM THE WOMEN OF UTAH.

	Brethren and Sisters—Ladies and Gentlemen:
	As representatives of the Latter-day Saint
women of Utah, we feel highly honored.
	The celebration of this day of days, marks
two most important events—the entrance of the
noble and valiant pioneers into these happy val-
leys, and the Latter-day Saints year of Jubilee
	Historically it resurrects the past, propheti-
cally it opens up the future.
	In the various phases of life through which
this people have struggled, up to the present,
which to-day have been figuratively portrayed,
those whom we are proud to represent, were not
spectators: although not the foremost,they were
prominent actors and participators in those
soul-stirring and heart-rending scenes, and not
only by their faith and prayers, their labor and
fortitude, did they assist in sustaining the ser-
vants of God,under most painful circumstances,
but in many instances, actually performed lab-
orious duties assigned to men. For instance,
after the expulsion of the Saints from Nauvoo,
when 500 able bodied-men were called out of
our journeying camps, to cross the American
desert, to assist by force of arms in adjusting
difficulties with Mexico, by which this very
land was ceded to the United States, women
were under the necessity of driving teams across
the plains, besids watching over their little
ones, and preparing the frugal meals upon
which they subsisted. We have ever been one
with our brethren.

[Column 3]
	What we witness this day, stirs within the
bosoms of those who came here in '47 the
same thrill that vibrated through our very
natures, when we saw the dear old flag, the
pride of our youth, which had been sacredly
preserved throughout our journeyings, hoisted
and waving to the breeze of the Rocky Moun-
tains. It was hailed as an emblem of peace
and liberty for which we had left the lands of
our birth.
	In the past we have emulated the heroic ex-
ample of the noble Pilgrim mothers, who, for
the sake of worshipping God according to the
dictates of conscience in company of the Pil-
grim Fathers, dared the perils of the briny deep,
and in a desolate country assisted in planting a
colony, designated by the Almighty as a pre-
cursor to the founding of a government under
which his kingdom was to be established.
What would the Pilgrim Fathers have done
without the Pilgrim Mothers?
	And now, when through the overruling and
protecting care of God,we are no longer chased
and driven, we, the women, of Utah, in organiz-
ed capacities, as efficient helps to the priest-
hood, are exercising all the talents and influ-
ence with which God has endowed us, to bless,
comfort and sustain the needy, and purify and
elevate society.
	With feelings of gratitude and tenderness,
mingled with holy reverence, we, as mothers,
wives, sisters and daughters, greet you, hail you
with honor, brave-hearted Pioneers—silver-
haired veterans of Zion's camp, and heroic vol-
unteers of the Mormon Battalion! And while
we give honor to the living, our hearts instinc-
tively go out in affectionate and honorable re-
membrance to the absent, whose faces we do
not behold, but whose lives were so closely in-
terwoven with those who are before us. "We
name no names," but offer a silent tribute to
the sacred memory of the honored dead.
For one retrospective moment we are looking
back over the vista of fifty years, "th[-] horologe
of time" has struck with telling force, the
chimes of the first half century since the
Church of Jesus Christ was organized on the
earth in this dispensation. Years full of startl-
ing episodes, of thrilling tragedies—records of
good and evil,misery and happiness,and though
many have peacefully fallen asleep, and thou-
sands have died by the wayside,and though we
have mourned a martyred prophet and partri-
arch, yet we rejoice to-day with the living or-
acles of the Holy Priesthood; and when we look
abroad upon our fair and happy homes, our
verdant, smiling valleys, and realize the peace,
plenty and prosperity that surrounds us in this
our holy year of Jublee, we the women of Is-
rael, desire to consecrate ourselves anew to the
work of the Lord, and mingle our voices with
those assembled here to-day, in one burst of
glorious melody, with loud hosannas, that the
ensign upon the mountains has been lifted to
the nations, and that for fifty years the moth-
ers of Israel, with the sons of God as co-laborers,
have borne the burden and heat of the day,
passed through trying ordeals, proven their
integrity before Heaven, and propose in the
future, as in the past, to keep the command-
ments of God, that we may obtain a fulness of
celestial glory, and be crowned with eternal
lives.


TRIED AS BY FIRE

	In the last issue of our valuable woman's
paper I noticed an article headed "Seek a
Reward." and I thought when I read it I
should like to add my testimony to the truth
therein contained,and to strive to impress upon
the minds of my young sisters the necessity of
perseverance and faithfulness if they would win
the prize.
	In early life I was taught if I recieved a re-
ward I must work for it, and to day when my


hair is silvered with age, I am most grateful for
it. But when my children were in my arms
O, how I wanted to hug them to my heart, and
shield them from the trials of life; but the ex-
perience that I have since gained has proved
to me that all have to be tried in life's furnace
and be purified from all dross by patience and
forbearance and long suffering, and then how
sweet will be the reward when we are through
with the toils and struggles of this life, and
how grateful we will be and how we will ap-
preciate the reward when we feel that we have
earned it by our own exertions.
	I once heard related the dream of a sister
that had passed through much persecution and
poverty, and had been tried to the very center
of her soul. She dreamed that she was travel-
ing and came to a beautiful mansion and
stopped there to rest; she went into the first
apartment, she noticed that many were sitting
around and among them two of her friends, and
as she was in the act of sitting down the guide
who was there told her that she was not to stop
but to follow him, which she did until they
entered a most beautiful room, and she was
motioned to take a seat, and she said that it
seemed so glorious and so full of rest. And
the odor of refreshments that were being pre-
pared were so grateful to her, that she turned
to the Prophet Joseph who was there and said
that she was as near Heaven as she expected
to get. She asked her guide if her two friends
that were in the entrance room could not come
in? His reply was "not until they have been
tried as you have, and are weary as you are."
And she awoke.
							EXPERIENCE.
	Manti City July 11, 1880.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		35


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	Y. L. M. I. A. Quarterly Conference S. L.
Stake of Zion, held in the Assembly Hall,
June 19, 1880, at 2 o'clock P. M. Mrs. M. A.
Freeze presiding. Opened by singing, "Prayer
is the soul's sincere desire." Prayer was offered
by Mrs. Elizabeth Howard. Singing, "Come
all ye Saints who dwell on earth." Minutes of
previous Conference read and accepted. Re-
ports were read from several Associations.
	Mrs. Freeze then called upon the Presidents
to report. Mrs. Sarah Graham, First Ward,
spoke for a few moments, and stated their So-
ciety had forty bushels of wheat stored and
nine dollars in cash in Treasury. During the
quarter they had held one joint meeting with
the Y. M. M. I. A. of the ward, and met once
with the 11th Ward in joint session. Said the
young ladies of the 1st Ward had a library of
Church works.
	Pres. Freeze said she was interested in all
she had heard, realized these Associations were
a great blessing. Young people must have
s omething to interest them in the Gospel, they
must live for a testimony if they would obtain
it. Said it is necessary to have the Spirit of
God in our hearts continually, that we may
stand faithful. One thing especially that she
desired to say was, the spirit of unbelief is
abroad in Zion, and the inclination to argue
that there is no God; therefore it is necessary
that all should seek unto God; if they will do
this, they will overcome. Let us seek the Lord
more faithfully, and God will assist us in our
weakness and diffidence if we pray unto Him
earnestly. My desire is to see the young ladies
progress and not let the children get in advance.
We should each understand and know our duties,
and then do them. There are many sources of
instruction, let us arouse ourselves to the im-
portance of the obligations that rest upon us."
	Pres. E. R. Snow Smith said the greatest
obstacle to speaking in public was pride; a
speaker must be absorbed in the subject, we

[Column 2]
must be humble instruments in the hands of
God. After some other remarks, she nomi-
nated Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor to preside over
all the Y. L. M. I. A. in all the Stakes of Zion.
She was unanimously elected. Mrs. Maggie
Y. Taylor and Miss Mattie Horne were chosen
and elected her Counselors, Miss Louie Wells,
Secretary, and Mrs. Fanny Young Thatcher,
Treasurer.
	Mrs. Louie Felt made a few remarks; said
she wished to obey when called upon. What
Sister Snow had said about pride touched her;
she was proud of the principles of the Gospel.
If we sought improvement through prayer and
effort we would improve; God would bless the
diligent seekers after truth. Many had begun
earnestly, and then slackened their efforts; she
exhorted the young ladies to renewed diligence,
all those connected with these organizations.
	Mrs. C. Y. Conrad said: "We should not
fear the ridicule of men or of women, we should
do the best we can and seek to God for His aid.
We look around us and see some who are
gifted, they compose beautifully, but they could
not do that all at once, they had to attain to it
by degrees; it is so with other things. If you
refuse to act in any capacity, you cannot im-
prove; we have to make a commencement.
Young girls, write for the EXPONENT, all of
you who can; for my part I would not be with-
out it. Yes, write for it, and take it and read
it. Keep good company and do not keep late
hours; then you are safer from temptation. Your
mothers and fathers are the right ones to coun-
sel you; take their advice. We certainly need
spiritual food as well as temporal. I would be
glad to see more young sisters come into our
ranks."
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor said in arising to speak
she felt very humble; she desired not only to
speak of good and true principles, but that the
spirit of her office and calling might rest upon
her. "Do I see young ladies here before me?
Only a few. Do they appreciate for what pur-
pose they have been born? I fear mothers are
much to blame in this respect. Have we not
an evidence of the growth of infidelity? Is it
true the spirit of infidelity is in our midst?
Then have we not instructed, have we not
trained our children as we should? We may
have taught our children the best we could; if
we have done our best we cannot reproach
ourselves. Joseph E. Taylor said on one occa-
sion, "If you have done for your children the
best you could, and you still hold them up by
faith, they will come back by and by." Our
young people should also be ladies and gentle-
men, and we should educate them in all the
sciences of the day, that they may not be b[-]
hind in any good thing. Mothers, look after
your daughters, keep them near you, keep their
confidence—that they may be true and faith-
ful, and that our Associations may not languish
and pine in the future as they have in the past,
is my prayer."
	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball said she was pleased
to be present on the occasion of the perfecting
of the organizations, and believed it would give
an impetus to them; thought in three months
from that time the young ladies would fill that
Hall. Hoped it would inspire a new interest
in these organizations; said we could not afford
to lose the intermediate link. Prayed that
Mrs. Taylor might have power to fill her posi-
tion; did not know of a more important one.
Said Sister Freeze had been much grieved at
the want of interest. "We have the senior, in-
termediate and primary departments, co-opera-
tive labor and individual labor—this perfec-
tion of organization will bring about the great-
est amount of good."
	Sister Eliza moved that the young ladies
have Sister Taylor visit them in their respec-
tive Associations, and those who did not do
anything resign their position, that some one
be put in the place who would fill it more
creditably.

[Column 3]
	Elder D. Graves made some remarks on
Sericulture, and read a letter from Philadel-
phia on that subject.
	Mrs. Freeze made suitable remarks, and
asked the presidents to invite Mrs. E. S. Taylor
and her counselors to visit them. Spoke of the
lecture to be given in the Theatre the following
Tuesday by Dr. R. B. Pratt, for the benefit of
Mattie H. Paul.
	Mrs. M. I. Horne spoke of the energy and
ability of Miss Paul; said she had great op-
portunities to talk to ladies of note about our
people and principles, and she was firm in the
faith of the Gospel. She had educated herself
gone out into the world to obtain perfect knowl-
edge of the profession she had chosen, and did
not forget her mountain home. The Confer-
ence was adjourned three months. The con-
gregation rose and sang "The Spirit of God
like a fire is burning." Benediction by Elder
Graves.						E. B. W.


JOTTINGS.

	The EXPONENT continues to come to us here
in Upper Kanab, freighted with its usual and
ever-welcome store of interesting news. Hav-
ing read the article entitled "Wildwood Leaves
and flowers," I feel as though I had had a visit
with the dear author—a friend of bygone
years. And "Seek a Reward," enables one to
take up her burthen and trudge along with
renewed diligence.					E. B. C.

	The efforts of the EXPONENT are to lead the
minds of the daughters of Zion in a channel
that will prepare them for positions they are
qualifled to fill, we know by its influence. Our
desires are to live purer and better lives. Our
hearts beat with true pride that we are num-
bered with noble women; yes, handmaids of
the Lord, who are willing to endure all things
for the truth's sake. And who, knowing their
rights and privileges, dare maintain them. We
feel to ask the blessings of the Lord upon all
faithful Saints, and especially the sisters who
are striving to do public and universal good.
We remain your sisters in the Gospel of Peace,

					HARRIET BUNTING,
					MARY J. JOHNSON,

	EDITOR EXPONENT:—Your valuable little
paper comes to hand, and is a very welcome
visitor to us here away out in Colorado. I
think as soon as the sisters here become ac-
quainted with it, you will have many subscrib-
ers from this place. I will show my paper to
as many as I have an opportunity, for I think
no woman should be without it. I think it
will not be long until we will have as good Re-
lief Society meetings here as you have in Utah.
Our town is growing fast; everything bids fair
for a beautiful city in the future. I like the
country here quite as well as Utah, and believe
if we do right the Lord will bless it for His
Saints. We are living close neighbors to the
Mexicans here, who are very kind to us. They
have many customs which are very strange for
a while, but we soon get acquainted with them.
I suppose our ways of living are quite as
strange to them.
	Ever wishing success to your valuable paper,
I remain your sister in the Gospel,
								S. T. B.


STAKE REPORTS WANTED.

	A full Statistical and Financial Report of Re-
lief Societies from April 1st, 1875 to 1880. Also
a Semi-Annual Report from April 1st, 1880 to
October 1st, 1880, are specially requested from
each of the Stake Secretaries throughout all the
Stakes of Zion. Forward to the Secretary of the
First Presiding Board.
		SARAH M. KIMBALL, Salt Lake City,
						P. O. Box, 785.


36		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 1, 1880.


[Column 1]
YEAR OF JUBILEE.

PIONEER DAY.

	The fiftieth year since the organization of the
Church, and the thirty-third year since the
pioneers entered Salt Lake Valley, was celebrat-
ed by a grand procession in the streets and ap-
propriate services in the Tabernacle on the anni-
versary of the ever memorable 24th of July. The
Tabernacle, Salt Lake Assembly Hall, and
nearly all the public buildings were decorated
with flags, the stars and stripes, the national
emblems floating gaily in the breeze. Sunday
School children with Superintendents and
Teachers were ranged under the trees in the
route of the procession, and added greatly to
the beauty of the picture, with their flowers and
banners. The streets were thronged on all sides,
yet the Marshals and their aids had no difficulty
in preserving perfect order.

	As announced, the procession began forming
at eight o'clock in the morning, on First South
Street. The head of the column moved at nine
o'clock at the call of Chas. M. Evans,
bugler of the pioneers, from the corner of Second
West and First South Streets, and proceeded
eastward, the entire procession, a grand and
beautiful display of over three miles in length,
countermarching on First South Street, to
Seventh East, thence west to Third East, thence
north to South Temple Street, and thence west
to the Tabernacle. The order of marching was
observed almost strictly as advertised, a few
changes only being necessitated. At the head of
the procession were the surviving Pioneers of
1847, in five wagons, preceded by two horsemen.
In the first wagon, which was drawn by eight
horses, were Wilford Woodruff, Orson Pratt, C.
C. Rich, Erastus Snow, A. Carrington, Joseph
Young, John Brown, Thomas Bullock, H. K.
Whitney, Aaron Farr, Zebedee Coltrin, T. O.
Angell and Thomas Grover. The horsemen
ahead were Jacob Weiler and John Pack, the
former being among the first to enter the valley
in 1847, to break a road for the main body that
followed.
	A portrait of the late President Brigham
Young was exhibited on either side of the first
wagon; with the inscription "Gone Before" on
one side, and "Absent but not Forgotten" on
the other. Above them was the old Pioneer
banner, on which were the names of all the
Pioneers and a picture of Joseph Smith, the
Prophet, in the act of blowing a trumpet. On
the same wagon was the United States flag.
The remainder of the Pioneers were in other
wagons behind.

	They were followed by Capt Beesley's martial
band. Next came in wagons the surviving
members of Zion's Camp. The Mormon Bat-
talion followed, accoutred in their rusty and rag-

[Column 2]
ged regimentals, with their worn out but honor-
ed old flag floating over their heads. After them
came a wagon with ladies, having a banner in-
scribed, "We represent the Women of the Mor-
mon Battalion."
	Following, in a carriage drawn by four black
horses, and another carriage drawn by two
horses, were President John Taylor, Apostles
George Q. Cannon, Brigham Young and Joseph
F. Smith, Counselor D. H. Wells and Secretary
L. J. Nuttall. Behind, in carriages came the
Presidency of the Seventies and Bishop Edward
Hunter and Counselors.
	The Minute men followed on horseback, led
by Col. H. P. Kimball, with a banner on which
appeared the mottoes, "The Guards" and "Al-
ways Ready."

	Next were the Union Glee Club in a covered
vehicle, and after them marched the Croxall
Brass Band.
	The General Committee rode in a carriage,
and next to them were the Presidency of this
and other Stakes of Zion, followed by the High
Councilors, and the quorums of the High
Priests, Seventies, Elders, Bishops, Priests and
Deacons,each with appropriate banners, that of the
Lesser Priesthood having inscribed the words of
the angel when ordaining Joseph and Oliver,
viz.: "This Priesthood shall never be taken again
from the earth, until the sons of Levi do offer
again an offering unto the Lord in righteous-
ness." Midway among these quorums, which
marched afoot, was the Tenth Ward Brass Band.
	The Relief Societies were in three carriages,
the representatives being Sisters Eliza R. Snow,
Elizabeth A. Whitney, Zina D. Young, Sarah
M. Kimball, M. I. Horne, Elizabeth Howard, B.
W. Smith, S. M. Heywood, M. E. Wilcox and
others, with a magnificent white silk banner, at
the top of which was the All-seeing eye. These
words were inscribed in a scroll, "Relief Society
first organized, March 17, 1842;" below was a
delicate wreath of blue and around the wreath
were the words "by Joseph Smith." In the
centre of the wreath is a dove holding an olive
branch in its bill, signifying peace. At each side
is the balm leaf, representing healing, and be-
low is inscribed "Numbers 300 branches, July
24, 1880." Under all is a rising star.
	The design is very artistic and the banner
beautiful.
	Next appeared three cars loaded with repre-
sentatives; a man and woman of the various
countries where the Gospel had been preached,
with banners. On one was, "The Republic has
made us all one nation. The Sunday Schools
had one car decorated with a banner "Zion is
growing, We are 30,000 strong." Following the
S. S. were 24 couple of young ladies and gentle-
men on horseback. The ladies wore cream col-
ored riding habits, white silk caps and white os-
trich plumes. The gentlemen, black cloth suits,
white neckties and gloves. They made a very
charming appearance. In front of them a horse-
man carried a banner with the inscription, "July
24, 1847—1880, God's gifts to the Pioneers."
	Education was represented by a splendidly
decorated car containing five ladies personifying
respectively, Religion, (Miss Priscilla Jennings),
History, (Miss Talula Young), Geography, (Miss
Fanny Little), Science, (Miss Josephine Beatie),
and Art, (Miss Louie Wells). The first occupied
a platform in the middle of the car. She was
dressed in white with a silver star on her fore-
head, her elbow resting on the Bible, and in her
hand was a palm leaf. History was apparaled in
gold, and stationed at one of the corners sur-
rounded by books with a scroll and stylus in her
hand. In another corner dressed in green, with
a globe by her side sat Geography. Science also
occupied a corner, as did Art, the former robed in

[Column 3]
blue, holding a telescope and surrounded by other
scientific instruments, and the latter in pink at-
tire, with palette, easel, sculpture, lyre, etc.,
around her. Near by were four children, two
looking at a picture book and on the other side
two larger children studying natural history and
botany. This car was one of the finest display-
ed. Behind it were carriages containing small
children with books in hand, and the inscrip-
tions "Our Schools" and "The Road to Great-
ness." School trustees and teachers and the
committee on education followed in vehicles
beneath banners with the sentiments, "A Free
People Must Be An Educated People," and "Our
Nation's Prosperity Lies in the Education of
Her Children."
	A carriage came next holding representatives
of the press, C. W. Penrose (Deseret News), Mrs.
E. B. Wells (WOMAN'S EXPONENT), G. C. Lam-
bert (Juvenile Instructor), John C. Graham (En-
quirer) and. Geo. G. Taylor (Junction), with a
banner on which was the figure of a power press
with a halo and inscribed "The Press—The Mag-
net of Intelligence; The Diffuser of Light; The
Champion of Right."
	The Drama, was finely portrayed in a chariot
decorated magnificently and occupied by several
characters representative of the nature, mission
and utility of the stage. The car was drawn by
six horses, the leaders led by court jesters, and
the others by Turks and Arabs, while guards in
armor walked at the corners of the car. The
body of the chariot was a splendid pavilion with
gothic canopy, surmounted by a bust of Shakes-
peare and upheld by marble pillars. The whole
was elegantly painted and draped, and gave a
very good idea of the stage with the curtain
raised. The central figure, seated on a pedestal,
was a lady (Miss Nellie Colebrook) personifying
the stage, with a glass in her hand, "holding the
mirror up to nature," while at the four corners
of a raised platform sat Tragedy, Comedy, His-
tory and Music. The first a lady (Miss Carrie
Cogswell), clothed in black, holding a dagger
and poisoned goblet; the next a lady (Miss Rida
Colebrook), attired in a light blue with a grotesqe
mask in her hand; the next an old man (Mr.
H. Horsley), holding a book, and the last (Mr.
T. Manning) dressed as Apollo; grasping the fa-
bled lyre. Around these figures danced a num-
ber of little fairies, with wings on their shoul-
ders and wands in their hands. This chariot was
the finest display in the procession. It was de-
signed by the committee and Mr. Fred. Lam-
bourne, chiefly by the latter, whose true artistic
taste and ability were manifested in its general
construction. Behind their car came the vota-
ries of the histrionic art—first, members of the
old Deseret Dramatic Association, and next,
those of the Home Dramatic Club, recently or-
ganized. Both had their banners, the latter es-
pecially beautiful.
	The Pilgrim Fathers landing on Plymouth
Rock, in 1620, were represented by tableaux, and
had a car elegantly fitted up for that purpose.
It was profusely decorated with flags and
banners. Purity was artistically represented
by a young lady attired in white. A piece of
the identical rock was framed and hung in the
car. Following this were several carriages of
New England people.
	Next came the Ogden brass band.
	The Y. M. M. I. A. marched in a body 1,100
strong, preceded by a finely mounted horseman
bearing their flag, one of the finest if not really
the finest in the procession. It was of white
silk, trimmed with blue and gold, and inscribed,
"The Glory of God is Intelligence," "Y. M. M.
M. I. A.," "We are 10,000 strong." Following
came the young men who marched by counties,
as follows: Salt Lake, 500; Davis, 150; Weber,
300; Box Elder, 50; Morgan, 40- Tooele, 30; mis-


[Column 1]
cellaneous, 30—total 1,100. Ahead were the
general and stake officers. There were over 60
banners displayed by these societies.
One of them bore the inscription "The Youth
of Israel will Sustain the Faith of their Fa-
thers."
	The Y. L. M. I. A. occupied three carriages,
holding the Territorial and Stake presidents and
other officers. Their banner was a large blue
one whereon was the inscription, "Y. L. M. I.
A.," and the sentiment, "Improvement our
Motto, Perfection our Aim."
	Following these came a carriage with the Ter-
ritorial and Stake officers of the Primary Asso-
ciations. One of the neatest and most pleasing
sights of the whole pageant was the Primary
Associations' car. Forty-two children—21 boys
and the same number of girls, representing the
21 bishops' wards of this city, all dressed in
white, and seated in the sleigh "Julia Dean,"
which was placed on wheels and beautifully de-
corated. It was drawn by six white horses, and
above on a tall mast was a banner of pure white,
with the words, "Primary Associations—Of
Such is the Kingdom of Heaven." Over the
heads of the little ones was a canopy to shade
them from the sun. In front, on each side of
the driver, was a little wood nymph, seated and
holding a silken rein, attached to the mouths of
the swans' heads on the sleigh, and behind were
two little sailors holding the ropes steadying the
awning and the banner. This fine display was
the result of the energy, taste and labors of Sis-
ter Ellen S. Clawson, president of the Stake
Primaries, assisted by her husband, H. B. Claw-
son, Esq.
	After these came the Pony Express in riding
costume with a banner, "1860 and 1861. From
the Missouri to San Francisco in seven days
and seven hours." Next was a car with telegra-
phy, then another Ogden band. Agriculture was
represented by a string of wagons loaded with
products, and with appropriate banners; then a
car of honey bees, then a horticultural car which
could not be excelled in beauty. A log cabin
with a mud chimney came next and seated in-
side was the widow of John P. Green. This was
followed by the most elaborate specimen of
modern architecture. Then the Payson band.
Next quarrymen and stone cutters in several
wagons at their work, the last filled with monu-
ments, graves and children strewing flowers,
and the motto inscribed, "In memory of the
honored dead who fell by the wayside." This
was most affecting "For every heart best know-
eth its own loss," and each would silently recall
its own. Workmen on foot followed.
	Wagon and carriage manufacturers, upholster-
ers. Printers, with press in operation, the names
of the various printing offices and newspapers in
the city. The car was 18 feet long decorated
with an eagle and a pennant with the words
"The Art Preservative." The pioneer press
west of the Missouri river brought here in 1848.
Binders of the principal establishments at work
in the next car, then the type foundry and paper
mill. Shoemakers and tanners next made a
very long and elaborate display. More than 100
men and boys represented this branch of indus-
try and about 30 girls were busy at their work.
A number of handsome banners, with witty
and appropriate mottoes. Saddles and harness,
house and decorative painting, tinners, butchers,
confectioners, wool press, cloth manufacture,
soap makers, mineralogy and mines, machinery.
Ladies industrial department. This car was pro-
fusely decorated with hanging baskets, and all
available specimens of ladies' needle work; this
committee of ladies spared no pains or means in
making attractive these useful and ornamen-
tal employments. In the car were young girls
braiding straw, making pillow lace, knitting,

[Column 2]
crocheting. The most conspicious motto was
"Men build and women beautify." The silk
car was finely decorated with cocoons and raw
material and the banner made entirely of varie-
gated twisted silk thread, was unique and hand-
some. On the platform was a ribbon loom, and
a silk reel, each with a lady at work, another
lady was knitting silk. Some very exquisite ar-
ticles of workmanship of silk material were hung
about the car.
	Merchants and bankers in carriages with a
banner of beautiful gold silk plush with the
simple word "Commerce." Salesmen followed
in four cars; appropriate mottoes with draping
and covering. Brooms artistically arranged,
making a fine appearance; then came chimney-
sweeps and last of all the Yacht Club. A neat
handsome yacht on wheels, crew dressed in cos-
tume, flags and streamers were quite an impres-
sive sight and when they cheered in counter-
marching in sailor fashion it was quite refresh-
ing, and made a pretty variety.

SERVICES IN THE TABERNACLE.

	The assembly was called to order by the bugle,
the same bugle used in crossing the plains in '47.
The Tabernacle choir rendered the glorious an-
them, "O Praise God all ye nations."
	Elder George Q. Cannon offered an inspiring
and eloquent prayer. Apostle Wilford Woodruff
made a short speech, rehearsing a few of the
scenes and incidents connected with Zion's
Camp of 1833, the Mormon Battalion
of 1846, and the Pioneers of 1847. "Those
who know how much the history of either
of these remarkable events combine will
wonder that even an interesting synopsis of
each could be given in 20 minutes. Apostle
Woodruff's remarks were responded to by a
hearty Amen from the congregation. The Union
Glee Club sang a martial song, "Comrades in
Arms."
	Apostle Orson Pratt then gave a speech in re-
gard to the introduction of the Gospel into the
various nations, a brief synopsis of which is
published on another page.
	After the nationalities resumed their seats
came the pealing anthem, "Glory to God in the
Highest," Elder David McKenzie then read, in
an effective manner, a poem written for the occa-
sion by Bishop O. F. Whitney, entitled "The
Jubilee of Zion." The Careless Orchestra then
executed the charming overture, "Poet and
Peasant." Elder B. F. Cummings, Jr., deliver-
ed an address on education, which he had care-
fully prepared for the occasion; and also read a
letter from the "Department of the Interior,
Bureau of Education," addressed to President
John Taylor, commending the manner in which
the educational statistics of Utah had been pre-
pared, and recommending the example to others.
After this, the beautiful duet, "I Heard a Voice,"
was gracefully and melodiously rendered by Mrs.
S. E. Langford and Miss L. Nebeker. This was one
of the very best features of the entire programme.
Sentiments from the women of Utah (published
on another page) were then read in a clear, dis-
tinct voice by Elder L. John Nuttall. The la-
dies of the first presiding board of the Relief So-
ciety appearing upon the platform in front of the
audience: while it was being read. The ladies
received considerable applause, which we be-
lieve they richly merit, and here perhaps it is in
keeping to say that among the pioneers, seated
on the platform, was the one woman, the only
one now living of three who came with the first
pioneers in 1847, Mrs. Clara D. Young, widow of
the late President B. Young. Let it not be for-
gotten that three noble, heroic women, braved
the dangers and hardships of that adventurous
journey. Mrs. Ellen S. Kimball, wife of Heber
C. Kimball, and Mrs. Harriet P. W. Young,

[Column 3]
wife of Elder Lorenzo D. Young, were the other
two. Honor to their memory. May their names
be engraven upon the hearts of Zion's sons and
daughters. The 10th Ward Band then perform-
ed a selection, and President John Taylor deliv-
ered an extempore address, going over much
Church history, and making special reference of
the pilgrims of New England, the Declaration of
Independence and the adoption of the Constitu-
tion. Spoke prophetically of the great future;
said God was at the helm and would preserve Is-
rael, and blest the pioneers, the Battalion,
Zion's Camp, the Relief Societies, the young
people's associations, the Sunday Schools, the
Elders in Israel, the Twelve and all the Holy
Priesthood.
	The Choir and Careless' Orchestra rendered
the Hallelujah Chorus from the Messiah, and
Apostle Erastus Snow pronounced the benedic-
tion.
	This celebration will be remembered in Israel
as one of the grandest commemorative events
which has ever been recorded in the pages of
history. It was a grand and solemn occasion, for
when one remembers the many persecutions,
drivings and wanderings which the Saints have
passed through, the heart must ascend in grati-
tude and prayer to Almighty God that He has
permitted his people to enjoy the peace and pros-
perity which surrounds them in their mountain
home.
	Great credit is due the several members of the
general committee who so energetically labored
beforehand to plan and arrange this mammoth
affair, and particularly to the chairman, Elder
Joseph E. Taylor, who was unceasing in his
efforts to render it successful. Under his direc-
tion the minutest details of the entire programme
were carried out. The sub-committees also are
worthy of great praise; they spared no time or
means to make their respective departments all
that could be desired. The ladies of the decora-
tive committee certainly worked energetically,
and their works praised them; also the ladies who
arranged the home-industrial department.
	The Marshals and their aids deserve special
mention for the very able and quiet manner in
which they performed their part of the pro-
gramme. Everything was in the most complete
and perfect harmony. The music from the choir
and all the several bands was glorious. The day
was lovely, the heavens smiled radiantly and
the azure air seemed impregnated with the
breath of angels, and one might easily imagine
that hosts of glorified beings were ready to burst
upon the view.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		37


CORRECTIONS.

	In the minutes of the Provo Relief Society
Conference, Elder Woodruff is made to say that
he was never at home with his family but one
summer in his life, and one of his children was a
year old before he saw him. Instead of this, he
said that he had not been at home with his fam-
ily but one summer since he was married, until
he came into these valleys of the mountains and
one child, born after he left home, was nearly a
year old before he saw him. These glaring mis-
takes show the importance of persons having the
privilege of correcting what is reported for them
before it is put in print.
							W. WOODRUFF.

	In statistical report of Y. L. M. I. Associa-
tions of Weber Stake, published in EXPONENT
July 15th, the average attendance is 2,863. It
shouild be 283.				R. CANFIELD.


All the printing department of the Woman's
Journal, published weekly in Boston, Mass., is
done and managed by women.


3﻿8		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE BRIGHAM YOUNG ACADEMY.

	There is a subject of vital importance to the
mothers of Utah—it is the educating of our
children. "Where shall I send my children to
school?" Is a question that vexes many a moth-
er’s brain, and with good reason; for often to
the sorrow of parents it is discovered too late
that the jewels given us from God, whose purity
we have so carefully guarded at home, have
become sullied by the pernicious influences of
bad associates found in the schoolroom.
	Can this be overcome? Yes. By what
means? By having our every action guided by
the Spirit of God. The mother needs it at
home, every day, every hour; her influence and
teachings are the foundation upon which the
teacher must build.
	Next to her influence comes that of the
teacher. If both are guided by divine inspira-
tion, we may expect but one result—the rear-
ing of children who are prepared to labor suc-
cessfully in Christ’s kingdom; being taught cor-
rect principles, they are able to govern them-
selves.
	But a reformation must take place in the
schoolroom, as in many other places among
the Latter-day Saints. It will be met as all
things and all persons are who take upon them
the mantle of Christ. If they follow his ex-
ample they must look for like experiences. On
the earth a constant struggle, in heaven eternal
joy.
	This reformation has commenced, my sisters.
	Where? some may ask. In the noble monu-
ment of love and wisdom left to bless God’s
people—the Brigham Young Academy. This
institution was founded by President Brigham
Young in 1876. He endowed it with a build-
ing for school purposes, and had made provision
for its support from other sources, but, in the
wise providences of the Lord, these endow-
ments were not consummated by him, so that
the school has but the building it can call its
own, and is supported by tuition fees alone;
which is something unparalleled in the history
of such an institution. But all is right, for
God will toke care of that which is established
to carry on his work.
	Let me consider all the readers of this price-
less little paper as one person. Together we
will visit, examine and learn of the real work-
ings of this school. The bell rings a hearty
peal at half past eight; the streets are alive
with scholars, from the little ones six years did
up to young men and maidens in their teens
and twenties.
	How happy, intelligent and orderly they are
(over four hundred pupils have attended this
year). One and all ascend the stairs. All is
subdued and quiet. A few words of general
instruction for the day from our beloved prin-
cipal, and the choir sings a hymn or anthem;
the bell taps, and all rise to their feet, when
one of the young students is called upon to
pray; an earnest and heartfelt appeal to "Him
who rules on high," for guidance through the
day and the scholars are dismissed to their sev-
eral departments for theological exercises, which
consist of three grades, the Primary, Interme-
diate and Advanced. We will follow the Pri-
mary and see how the little ones enjoy the
principles of the holy Gospel. Now all is
quiet. Brother Tanner (a student of the B.
Y. Academy, who is now the teacher of the
Academic Department) tells some incident in
the life of our Savior, or one of the parables,
in simple and effective language, drawing a
map of the Holy Land on the board, to illus-
trate his subject. The little ones are asked to
volunteer to tell the story over in their own
simple way. Ah! what happiness to see how
eager, how delighted they are with all the
beautiful truths taught in such a way that even
the smallest can understand.

To be Continued.


GROWING OLD.

	I have been thinking what a poor prospect
the average women has to look forward to, at
the age of forty, if she be a widow without
property.
	If she has raised a family of small children
soon to be married and leave her, or if she be
childless, the lookout is about the same. Her-
real life-work seems done, when it ought to be
only changed. The active matron cannot fold
her hands, so she looks about for something to
take up her time. What shall it be? Charity?
General meddlesomeness? Shall she become a
burden on step children?
	Happy the woman who has the foresight to
see that through forty years of experience she
has matured the ability to commence a grand,
useful second half of her life! Let her study a
profession or adopt a trade. The physician or
lawyer, with gray hairs, has twice the practice
he did during his probation of maturing exper-
ience and judgment.
	It is the worry over the future that so wrinkles
and ages women, they seem helpless, and, worst
of all, not desired after a certain age. Every
one should live young in ambition and work,
no matter how many years they have seen roll
by; each year should count a garnered store to
make rich the coming one.
The first forty years of a woman's life are
generally laid on the altar of love, and no pay
taken in return. (I am not talking of the
weathy class.) The law gives a wife the poorest
chance of any in life—housework without
pecuniary pay. And when this situation is no
longer open, she looks about, scared, for a place
to earn her living. How many such have I
seen; and I always advise them to acquire a
<f acquire="" a="" trade,="" or="" profession,="" go="" to="" teaching;,="" they="" make="" the="" best="" of="" teachers="" and="" are="" much.="" tq="" be="" preferred="" younger="" tutors.="" i="" would="" not="" advise-="" any="" avoman="" leave="" un-="" finished="" family="" work;="" but="" avhen="" that="" is="" ..com-="" ?="" pleted="" there="" other="" grand="" avork="" for="" her,="" if="" she="" :="" has="" courage="" overcome="" objections="" .="" beth.1="" ‘="" ;="" san="" francisco,="" cal.="" woman’s="" journal.-="" ,="" i<="" div="">trade, or a profession, or go to teaching; they
make the best of teachers and are much to be
preferred to younger tutors.
	I would not advise any woman to leave un-
finished family work; but when that is com-
pleted there is other grand work for her, if she
has the courage to overcome objections.
									BETH.
	San Francisco, Cal. Woman's Journal.


[Column 1]
LIFE INCIDENTS.

BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	The last sketch from my father's history hav-
ing taken me back to the earlier scenes of my
childhood, I cannot resist the inclination of go-
ing still farther back. The names of some of
those mentioned by him are very nearly con-
nected with my earliest and fondest recollec-
tions, not only in Kirtland, Ohio, but in Men-
don, in the State of New York, where I was
born. Brother John Moreton and family were
our nearest neighbors in Mendon; also Ira
Bond's and one or two other families who stop-
ped in Kirtland. They received the Gospel
and moved up there nearly at the same time we
did. They seemed so near to us that my par-
ents grieved over their apostacy.
	Brother Brigham Young, with his wife and
two little girls, lived with us in Mendon; Mrs.
Young died in a few months after they came
there, and my mother took care of his children
from that time until after we moved to Kirt-
land, Ohio. We were like one family for
years, and I had supposed Brigham and Jo-
seph Young to be my uncles until years after.
I loved, them and their sister Fanny, who was
afterwards married to my Grandfather Murray,
more dearly than I did most of my own rela-
tives, for we left them all when we went to Kirt-
land. Aunt Fanny Young was living with
my parents when I was born, and took care of
me, and she was always ready to defend me if
necessary. Uncle Joseph was unmarried, and
always stopped with us when in Mendon. I
was frequently asked the question which I loved

[Column 2]
the best, Pa, Uncle Brigham or Uncle Joseph;
I would never give but one answer, "I love you
all at once." Brothers Brigham and Joseph
have often reminded me of my "first love." If
I had a leaning towards one more than another
it was Uncle Joseph, as he was without any
family, and I was the first to expect and to re-
ceive his sugar plums and kisses.
	The following interesting items are from my
father's history: "The family of John Young,
Sen., consisted of five sons, five daughters, and
two sons-in-law; John P. Green and Joel Sand-
ford moved into Mendon about two or three
years previous to hearing of Mormonism. They
belonged to the Reformed Methodists. They
were in lowly circumstances, and seemed to be
an afflicted people, in consequence of having a
great deal of sickness and sorrow to pass
through, and of course were looked down upon
by the flourishing church where we lived. To
them my heart was united, because a principle
had existed in my heart from my earliest child-
hood to plead the cause of suffering innocence
—to go on the side of the oppressed at all
times. I have many times turned aside from
the company of those who were highly es-
teemed in the world, and sought the society of
the poor and humble, even those who loved the
ways of the Lord bett[--] than the praise of the
world. These families had the same principles
in their breasts which I had in mine, for truth
was what we wanted."	*	*	*
The following paragraph is from my father's
journal:
	"On the night of September 22d, 1827, while
living in the town of Mendon, after I had re-
tired to bed, John P. Green, who was then a
traveling Reformed Methodist preacher, living
within one hundred steps of my house, came
and waked me up, calling upon me to come out
and behold the scenery in the heavens. I woke
up and called my wife and Sister Fanny Young
(sister to Brigham Young), who was living
with us; we went out of doors—it was one of
the most beautiful starlight nights, so clear that
we could see to pick up a pin. We looked to
the eastern horizon and beheld a white smoke
arise towards the heavens; as it ascended it
formed itself into a belt, and made a noise like
the rushing of a mighty wind, and continued
southwest, forming a regular bow dipping in
the western horizon. After the bow had
formed, it began to widen out and grow clear
and transparent of a bluish cast; it grew wide
enough to contain twelve men abreast. In this
bow an army moved, commencing from the east
and marching to the west; they continued
marching until they reached the western hori-
zon. They moved in platoons, and walked so
close the rear ranks trod in the steps of their
file leaders, until the whole bow was literally
crowded with soldiers. We could distinctly
see the muskets, bayonets and knapsacks of the
men, who wore caps and feathers like those
used by the American soldiers in the last war
with Britain; also saw their officers with their
swords and equipage, and heard the clashing
and jingling of their instruments of war, and
could discover the form and features of the
men. The most profound order existed through-
out the entire army; when the foremost man
stepped, every man stepped at the same time; I
could hear the steps. When the front rank
reached the western horizon a battle ensued, as
we could distinctly hear the report of the arms
and the rush. No man could judge of my
feelings when I beheld that army of men, as
plainly as I ever saw armies of men in the
flesh: it seemed as though every hair of my
head was alive. This scenery we gazed upon
for hours, until it began to disappear. After I
became acquainted with Mormonism I learned
that this took place the same evening that Jo-
seph Smith received the records of the Book
of Mormon from the angel Moroni, who had
held those records in his possession. John
Young, Sen., and John P. Greene's wife Rhoda


[Column 1]—
were also witnesses  of  this  scenery.  My wife
being frightened at what she saw, said: ‘Father
Young, what does all this mean?’ He replied
in  a  lively, pleased  manner, ‘Why, its  one of
the signs of  the  coming  of the Son of Man.’
The next night similar scenery was beheld in
the west by the  neighbors, representing armies
of  men  who were engaged in battle.”
	My parents had never professed any religion
until  about  three  weeks  previous  to  hearing
this  Gospel, they  joined  the  Baptist  Church;
but  as  soon  as  they  heard the principles of
Mormonism declared by some Elders who came
from Pennsylvania, they felt  that it  contained
the fulness of the  everlasting Gospel, and that
they had  only received  a  part.  Father says:
“Brigham Young and myself were constrained
by  the  spirit  to  bear  testimony  of the  truth
which we had heard, and when  we did this the
power of God rested upon us.”  *   *   "Upon
one  occasion  Father  John  Young,  Brigham,
Joseph  and  myself  had  gathered  together  to
get some  wood  for  Phineas  H. Young;  while
we were thus engaged we were pondering upon
the things which  had  been  told  to  us by the
Elders, and upon the Saints gathering to Zion;
and the  glory of God  shone  upon  us, and we
saw the  gathering  of the Saints  to Zion  and
the glory that would rest upon them, and many
more things connected with  that  great  event,
such as the  sufferings  and  persecutions  which
would  come upon the  people  of God, and  the
calamities  and  judgments  which  would  come
upon  the  world.  These  things  caused  such
great  joy to  spring up in our  bosoms that  we
were hardly able to  contain  ourselves;  and we
did  shout  aloud, ‘Hosanna to  God  and the
Lamb!’ These things increasing our desires to
hear  more, I took  my  horses  and  sleigh  and
started for  Columbia, Bradford  County, Penn-
sylvania—distance one  hundred  and  twenty-
five miles;  Brigham and Phineas  Young and
their  wives  went  along with me.  We stayed
with the Church there about six days, attended
their  meetings, heard  them  speak in tongues,
interpret  and prophesy, which truly caused us
to rejoice and praise the  Lord.  We returned
home confirmed in the truth, but were not  yet
baptized, and as we were  on  our way we bore
testimony to  the  truth  of those things which
we had seen and heard, and to our friends and
neighbors;  many received  our  testimony and
became  members  of  the  Church.    April  14,
1832,  Brigham  Young went  forward  and was
baptized  by Eleazer  Miller, and  the next day
Alpheus  Gifford  came  into my shop  while I
was forming a vessel upon the wheel,and while
conversing  with  me  upon  the  subject  of  this
work, I said: “Brother Alpheus, I am ready to
go forward and be baptized.”   I arose from
my seat, pulled off my apron, washed my hands
and  started  with  him.  * * * I went the
distance of one mile, where he  baptized me in
a small stream in the woods.  After I was bap-
tized  I kneeled  down, and  he  laid his  hands
upon  my head  and  confirmed me a member of
the Church  of  Jesus Christ, and said, ‘Receive
ye the  Holy Ghost.’ And before I got up off
my knees he wanted  to  ordain  me  an  Elder;
but I plead with him not to do it, as I felt my-
self unworthy  of such  a  calling and such  an
office.  In  about  two weeks  my wife was bap-,
tized by Brother  Joseph  Young, with  several
others, when we numbered about thirty in that
branch. * * * Under the  ordinances of 
baptism and laying on of hands I received the
Holy  Ghost  as  the  Disciples  did  in  ancient
days, which was  like a consuming  fire, and I 
felt as though I was clothed in my right mind
and sat at the feet of  Jesus.   Although  the
people called me crazy, I continued in this way
for  many months, and it seemed as though my
flesh  would  consume  away;  at  the  same time
the Scriptures  were  unfolded  to  my mind  in
such  a  wonderful manner  that it appeared to
me at times as  if  formerly I had been familiar 

[Column 2]
with them.  This alarmed the professing world
around us, and raised the devil to a great rage;
still our minds were calm and filled with peace,
while  the  wrath  of our enemies was  raised to
such a degree that they persecuted us. During 
one week some  of  those  who  had  professed to
be my greatest friends in the  Baptist Church, 
and others, persecuted me to such a degree that
five  or  six  executions were  taken  out against
me, and  I  turned  out  property  to  secure the
same to their great  disappointment;  God  hav-
ing opened my way so that I obtained money to
pay  all  my  debts  and  liberate  myself  from
them, so that none  of  my  property was sold at
auction.  In  the  mean time, during my great-
est trouble not one of them was willing to step
forward to assist me, excepting my brethren in
the  Church  and  my  brother  Solomon.   May
God  bless  my brethren, and  reward those my
enemies according to their works.
	“September 18, Bro. Brigham Young’s wife,
Miriam, having  been  feeble  for  months, died.
In  her  expiring  moments  she  clapped  her
hands  and  praised  the Lord; she continued in
this  happy state, and  when  her voice was too
weak  to  be  heard,  her  lips  and  hands  were
seen  moving until  she  expired.  This was an-
other  testimony  of the powerful  effect  of the
Everlasting Gospel, showing  that  we shall not
die, but  we  shall  sleep. * * * In these
scenes and other afflictions we felt to rejoice in
the Lord. * * * In September, Brothers
Brigham  and  Joseph  Young  and myself went
up to Kirtland,  Ohio, in my wagon, to visit the
Prophet. * * * We saw  Brother  Joseph
Smith  and  had a glorious  time, during which
Brother Brigham  spoke in tongues  before  Jo-
seph, this  being the  first time  that Joseph had
heard  the  gift  of  tongues.  He  rose  up  and
testified that the gift was  from  God, and  then
the gift fell  upon him and he spoke in tongues
himself; he afterwards declared it was the pure
or Adamic language which he spoke. * * *
We had a precious season, and returned  with a
blessing in our souls. I continued rejoicing in
the Lord and bearing testimony that God had
spoken  from  the  heavens, and of the things  I
had  received, until  I sold  my  possessions  and
settled  up  my  affairs.  In  the  fall  of  1833 I
packed up my goods, took my horses and wagon
and started for Kirtland, Ohio;  but to my great
surprise, some  of my  neighbors  issued attach-
ments  against  my  goods, although  I  was  not
indebted to  any one  of them  to  the  value  of
five  cents, for  I had  been  particular  in  such
matters, that  I  was  well  aware  I was  not in-
debted  in  any sum  to  any person, unless  two
cents to one man, in a case where change could
not  be  procured,  although  there  were  some
hundreds of dollars due me, which I was obliged
to leave  uncollected;  I  settled  their  unjust
claims.  Elder  Brigham  Young  and his  two
children went with me;  we arrived in Kirtland
about the last of October or first of November.”
	When we first went there we lived in a house
belonging  to  Mr.  Elijah  Smith,  uncle  to
Mother  Whitney.  In  the  meantime  father
built a small frame house, which was put up by
Uncle  Brigham,  who  was  a  carpenter  and
joiner, and also a painter and glazier.
	“Soon after  our  arrival  in Kirtland,” says 
father “there was a contribution  called  for to
finish the  schoolhouse  and  printing  office; I
contributed the  glass for the  house and I gave
Brother Hyrum Smith two hundred dollars for
the  building  of the  Temple.   The  brethren
were  engaged in building  the  House  of  the
Lord. * * * The Church  was  in  a state
of  poverty  and  distress, in  consequence of
which it  appeared  almost  impossible  that the
commandment  to  build  the  Temple  could be
fulfilled.  At  the  same time our enemies were
raging  and  threatening  destruction  upon  us,
and we had to guard night after night, and for
weeks  were  not permitted  to take, off  our
clothes, and were  obliged to lay with our fire-

[Column 3]
locks in  our arms to preserve Brother Joseph’s
life and  our  own. Joseph was sued  before a
magistrate’s court in Painesville, on a vexatious
suit.  I carried him from Kirtland  to  Paines-
ville, with  four  or  five  others,  in  my wagon,
every morning for five days, and brought them
back in the  evening. We were often waylaid,
but  managed  to  elude  our  enemies  by  rapid
driving  and  taking  different  roads.  Esquire
Bissell defended  the  Prophet  and he  came  off
victorious.   At this time our brethren in Jack-
son County, Missouri, were also suffering great
persecution; about twelve hundred were driven,
plundered  and  robbed,  their  houses  burned,
and  some  of the brethren were killed.  Mobs
were  organized around Kirtland, who were en-
raged against us, ready to destroy us. *  *  *
Joseph gathered together as many of the breth-
ren as he conveniently  could, with what means
they could spare, to go up to Zion to render all
the assistance  that  we  could.  We  gathered
clothing  and  other  necessaries  to  carry up to 
our brethren  and  sisters who had been plun-
dered, and putting  our  horses to  the  wagons
and faking our  firelocks  and  ammunition,  we
started  on  our  journey,  leaving  only  Oliver
Cowdery, Sidney Rigdon and a few aged work-
men who were  engaged at the  Temple; so that
there were very few men  left at Kirtland. Our
wagons were  about full with baggage, &c, con-
sequently we had to travel on foot.   We started
on the 5th of May, and truly this was a solemn
morning to me. I took leave  of  my  wife  and
children  and  friends,  not  knowing whether  I
would see them again in the flesh, as myself and
brethren were  threatened  both in that country
and  in  Missouri  by  enemies, that  they would
destroy us and  exterminate us from the land.”
	To be Continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		39


A FOOLS FANCY.

	He had a pretty thorough knowledge of hu-
man nature who wrote, "A person who is not a
fool half the time is a fool all the time." This
remark is equivalent to saying that the people of
the world are constitutionally and continually
fools, for the reason that no one is to be found
who will admit that he is a fool half the time,
and when he is unwilling to make such an ad-
mission the inference is that he is a fool all the
time. It is an apparently extravagant idea, and
yet has much in it. In a feeling of the sublime
charity with which all are periodically effected,
especially when referring in the patronizing
spirit with which the wise ones of the world are
blessed to the shortcomings of an individual, it
is customary to perpetrate the angelic expres-
sion "Ah, well! we all have our faults," while
the air in which the remark is made, the tone of
voice and the whole manner say plainer than
words: "I say this, out of the goodness of my
soul, but candidly and with a full knowledge of
the weight of the expression, I do not believe
I ever had any such shortcomings; and if I
had I am certain I will never have them again."
	A momentary sense of humility having come
over me, I admit I am one of the fools in this world,
of whom there are so few and yet such a great
multitude. Until lately, I had an idea that the
intellect of the world was pretty evenly divided
among the people living in it, but a reverse opin-
ion possesses me now. One never learns of pub-
lic men doing anything of a public or private
nature, but he hears some one discussing its
propriety, and when he gets through, you are or
should be convinced that the public man is an
unmitigated fool for having done any such thing.
If you dare to suggest that the act was proper or
that it had its extenuating features, you are put
in the same intellectual boat as the public man,
and are pronounced a fool. Of course, there is
some satisfaction in the connection, even if it be
so unenviable, but you are unquestionably a fool.
There are persons in this world who carry their
idiocy to such a superlative degree that they
think, as a rule, mankind is working for the good
of mankind, and that the brains of the world
are pretty evenly distributed; but this delusion,
which you admit is very pretty and very de-
sirable, can not withstand the argument
of one of the fortunate wise persons, who
convinces you in a very few seconds that you are
a fool for entertaining such an idea. He wishes


to heaven it were so, but sighs and shakes his
head. This shake of the head, accompanied by
a deep sigh, is very suggestive and carries a
great deal of weight and argument when used
judiciously. A good solemn shake of the head
says: "No one knows how much I would re-
joice were the world wise;" and when the sigh is
added, the expression is completed thus: "And
no one can regret more deeply than I that the
world will not be taught by me and partake of
my wisdom."
	And what makes this more distressing is that
nearly everybody you meet has got the same
grave shake and trying sigh. In view of this
wide-spread idiocy, the great question of life is
how to get over being a fool, and the only suc-
cessful solution to the problem at present ap-
parently is to get over living with all possible
expedition. One-half the time of one-half the
world is spent in showing what fools the other
half is; and the other half occupies the remain-
der of the time in proving the same sad condi-
tion for the first half, forgetting always that the
best evidence of idiocy is in the attempt to
prove some one else an idiot. Josh Billings
once remarked that he loved his faults because
they made him feel he was a brother to the rest
of mankind; and for the same reason I love my
share of the idiocy of the world. He is least a
fool who does not think the world all fools.
"What fools these mortals be."
							ONE OF THEM.


40		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RESOLUTIONS OF CONDOLENCE.

<ul i="" '="" 41="" -j="" jl="" .="" 1="" t'="" ,="" ii$plytlons="" &k="" condolence.="" iiro="" ff="" jipgabejpf.="" johnf.="" tobnebt'i.,="" wiusiifcxsl="" alivvwtr6vidence="" has="" seen="" fit="" to;="" hlloxwessssassfh="" w'taketlivs="" life="" of-john="" f.="" baturneiyoldest="" sonbf="" john="" w-="" and="" sarah="" i;="" tur-i="" vihejvabd..'="" .i'="" i.="" i’)iyolkaeritirebijonghj%hi9death.="" the.church:="" ;lias="" jr="" "”"="" lost="" a'ppjnjng.merqber,="" fho="" family="" an="" ex-<="" celfeat="" son="" aianrother.="" whereas,="" the="" said="" s.="" w.="" turner="" ever="" been="" ready="" by="" his="" means-and="" infllittlee="" to="" aid="" our="" so-="" ciety,="" sarah,li="" turner,has="" active="" member="" of="" society-over="" since="" its="" organiza-="" -u.tiqn,="" andjhasalways,shown="" a="" .willingness="" her="" jhelp;="" handiiheartandsympathy.toaid="" tbe.objects="" w.of="" our-societyi,="" as="" ..also.="" afflicted:="" therefore,="" -="" -inth&rbereaverrient;="" -hpreauupoji-="" minuies;="" copy'="" sens-="" wine="" wafs="" herald="" deseret="" -news="" '&eriwrerf:i="" )'="" "="" vnnamnjttj="" or.?="" i..="" a;jthrppgh;te,decp="" ;watos,i="" call="" jtheo="" go.="" oils="" ii="" w'f5m="" wftyvr="" shall="" not,="" files="" .oyerflc,="" t6r7xbl,tc‘wh'tl(e<i="" fiiytronlles="" tbbless,="" iahdjsanctify="" ihecr="" thy="" deepest="" diblress.”="" ’'1="" n="" ’="" juia.="" .aolden,.prudent="" be;..="" wf="" j-="" counselors;="" becreary.'ai<="" div="">TO THE PARENTS OF JOHN F. TURNER.

	WHEREAS, Allwise Providence has seen fit to
allow the assassin to take the life of John F.
Turner, oldest son of John W. and Sarah L. Tur-
ner and
	Whereas, Through his death the church has
lost a promising member, and the family an ex-
cellent son and brother.
	Whereas, The said J. W. Turner has ever been
ready by his means and influence to aid our So-
ciety, and Sarah L. Turner has been an active
member of our Society ever since its organiza-
tion, and has always shown a willingness by her
help, hand, heart and sympathy to aid the objects
of our Society, as also the afflicted, therefore,
be it
	Resolved by the Relief Society of the Fourth
Ward of Provo City, that we deeply sympathize
with our Brother and Sister Turner and family
in their bereavement.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
spread upon our minutes, a copy sent to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Herald, Deseret News
and Enquirer.

"When through the deep waters I call thee to go,
The rivers of sorrow shall not thee overflow.
For I will be with thee thy troubles to bless,
And sanctity to thee thy deepest distress."
			RUIA A. HOLDEN, President.
			L. SNYDER,	} Counselors.
			C. DANIELS,	}
			C. DANIELS, Secretary.


OBITUARIES.

	At the residence of her son-in-law, Isaac Price,
Round Valley, Bear Lake County, June 26th,
1880, of heart disease and dropsy, Elizabeth
Sophia Bailey, wife of the late Luther Reed, of
Bloomington, Bear Lake County, Idaho. De-
ceased was born July 22nd, 1823, in Nova Scotia,
North America, embraced the Gospel at Bath,
England, 1846, and emigrated to Utah in 1853.
Sister Reed was known and spoken of as a good
woman, unassuming, naturally self-sustaining
and independent to the utmost of her ability.
Having suffered a long time previous to her
death, she longed to lay her body down and go
to rest. Her end was peace.	H. LLOYD.
	Deseret News please copy.

	DIED at her residence in Moroni, May 18th, of
bronchitis and old age, Sister Kristen Jensen.
Deceased was born in Farra, in the Province of
Jutland, Denmark, October 26th, 1809; was bap-
tized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in 1861, emigrated to Utah in com-
pany with her husband and children, and set-
tled in Moroni in 1862. Her husband died in
1872. She was the mother of seven children, of
which six still live, and 37 grandchildren, of
which 35 are yet living. She was a consistent
Latter-day Saint, a faithful member of the Re-
lief Society, and died in the full hopes of meet-


ing her husband behind the vail, and with him
receive a glorious resurrection.
	Skandenaveens Stjerne please copy.

	Died at St. John's, Malad Valley, Idaho, June
the 18th, 1880, after a severe illness of ten days,
Rachel E. daughter of Richard Davis and Phe-
be Jones, aged 14 years, 7 months and 7 days.
Deceased was a kind and affectionate girl, belov-
ed by all who knew her, and her loss is mourned
by all.

Oh weep not gentle mother, and brothers, sisters dear,
Your loved one's safe from danger and sorrow; never
	fear.
And if like her we're faithful and strive to do our best,
We'll meet her in the heavens with the noble and the
	blest.
Deseret News please copy.				—COM.

	Died at her residence, Moroni, Sanpete Coun-
ty, after a short illness, Caroline Marie Soronson,
wife of Sorin Sorenson. Born on the 4th day of
April, 1855, in Denmark, and died on the 18th of
June, 1880, leaving a husband and numerous re-
latives to mourn her loss. She was a teacher
of the Relief Society and a worthy member of
the Church of Jesus Christ, and a faithful wife.
She was above reproach, and respected by all
who knew her. Almost the entire settlement
followed her remains to their last resting place.
"Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord,"
for they will come forth out of their dusty
graves in the morning of the first resurrection.


AN EDUCATIONAL ENDORSEMENT:—The Rev.
C. A. Harvey. D. D., of the Howard University,
of Washington, has adressed the following letter
to Messrs. Warner & Co., of Rochester N. Y.
	GENTLEMEN: I take pleasure in stating that I
have for two years past been acquainted with
the remedy known as Warner's Safe Kidney and
Liver Cure, and with its remarkable curative
efficiency in obstinate and so called incurable
cases of Bright's Disease in this city. In some
of these cases, which seemed to be in the last
stages, and which had been given up by pract-
citioners of both schools, the speedy change
wrought by this remedy seemed but little less
than miraculous. I am convinced that for
Bright's Disease, in all its stages, no remedy
heretofore discovered can be held for one mo-
ment in comparison with this.
	Respectfully Yours.		C. A. HARVEY.


[Column 1]
HAVE YOU SEEN THE
NEW VICTOR SEWING MACHINE?
	If not you should do so at once, and examine the New
Ideas in Sewing Machine Construction. The New Machine
is elegant in appearance and admirable in operation, runs
very easily and without any noise and confusion, although
the rate of speed is very high. Its self-setting and self-
threading shuttle, and absence of springs and cogs, renders
it both simple and durable. ☞ Be sure to see it, for its
general advantages will make you its friend.
VICTOR SEWING MACHINE CO., CHICAGO, ILL.
O.H. RIGGS, Agent, Salt Lake City.

WARNER'S
[image of a safe] SAFE
BITTERS
	It is the best Blood Purifier, and stimulates
every function to more healthful action, and is
thus a benefit in all diseases.
	In eliminating the impurities of the blood, the
natural and necessary result is the cure of Scrof-
ulons and other Skin Eruptions and Diseases,
including Cancers, Ulcers and other Sores.
	Dyspepsia, Weakness of the Stomach, Consti-
pation, Dizziness, General Debility, etc., are
cured by the Safe Bitters. It is unequaled
as an appetizer and regular tonic.
	It is a medicine which should be in every fam-
ily, and which, wherever used, will save the
payment of many doctors' bills.
	Bottles of two sizes: prices, 50 cents and $1.00.
SAFE
KIDNEY & LIVER
CURE
SAFE
DIABETES CURE
SAFE TONIC
NERVINE
PILLS
READ! Save Thyself
☞ Warner's
Safe Reme-
dies are sold
by Druggists
and Dealers
in Medicine
everywhere.
H. H. WARNER & CO.,
Proprietors,
Rochester, N.Y.
☞ Send for Pamphlets
and Testimonials.

[Column 2]
ROMANIA B. PRATT,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE—Up Stairs, in Old Constitution Building.
	RESIDENCE—Six Blocks East of Post Office, South side
of street.
☞ Special study has been given to Obstetrics, Diseases of
Women, and DISEASES of the EYE and EAR.

ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon.

	OFFICE on Main St. over Calder's Music Store.
	RESIDENCE on South Temple Street, between 9th and
10th East Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, Diseases of Children
and Diseases of the THROAT, HEART and LUNGS.

DAVID JAMES.
TINNER, CAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

☞ Agent for RUMSEY'S celebrated LIFT and FORCE
PUMPS. Pumps Repaired on short notice. Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
☞ Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

PALACE OF FASHION, NO. 17 EAST TEMPLE ST.
MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Desires the Ladies of Salt Lake and those visiting the City,
to call at her Show Rooms and see her New Stock of MILLI-
NERY. The latest and most stylish modes of Hats and Bon-
nets, in Straw, Felt and Velvet. Also, a nice selection in
Flowers, Feathers, Plushes, Velvet and Ribbons in the latest
shades and strings. Country Doaters, please Call. Ladies'
Hair Work in all its branches. Good Work Guaranteed!

NEW SPRING STOCK!
F. AUERBACH & BROTHERS
55 East Temple St., Salt Lake City.
	Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings; Five hundred pairs Kid Gloves; Trimmings; Ladies'
Ties, Cuffs and Collars; 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
☞ Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West.
Notions: Boots and Shoes; Gents' and Boys' Clothing and
Furnishing Goods, Etc., Etc.

☞ Z. C. M. I ☜
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALERS IN
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY & SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS & QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, ETC.

AT TEASDEL'S
SALT LAKE CITY.
	Speical Deparments for Gent's Clothing and
Carpets, Ladies' and Children's Shoes, Dry
Goods, Shawls and Domestics, Groceries, Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
S. P. TEASDEL.

A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home Made Trunks for Sale by JOHN C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,		Wool Batting,
Shawls,		Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,		Cassimers,		Washboards,
Jeans,		Tweeds,			Brushes, Etc., Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES, FEATHERS, WALL PAPER
AND
BABY CARRIAGES,
75, 77, & 79, First South Street,
SALT LAKE CITY.

DR. A. B. DUNFORD,
DENTIST,
[image of dentures]
SPECIAL ATTENTION PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural teeth. Teeth Carefully
Extracted. FALSE TEETH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set in the
Most Approved Manner. PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST., OPPOSITE SALT LAKE HOUSE.
P. O. BOX, 541,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

