Vol. 9	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1881.	No. 17.


OUR OWN ELIZA SNOW.
BY EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
Written in commemoration of the seventy seventh
anniversary of the birthday of Pres. Eliza R. Snow
Smith, and read at the celebration given in honor to her
in Ogden Jan. 21, 1881.
Cheerfully we pay a tribute
That to life long worth we owe:
Thus we celebrate the birthday–
Of our own Eliza Snow.
Zealous, wise, unflinching ever,
In the cause of truth and right,
Heaven has blest her true endeavor,
Zion's Daughters to unite.
By the holy priesthood chosen,
O'er her sisters to preside,
Sister Snow's appointed mission
Has a long felt want supplied.
Who can estimate the harvest,
That from precious seeds have grown
Through the length and breadth of Zion
By her faithful daughters sown!
Nor confined to Zion's borders,
Shall the bounteous blessings be,
Scattered seeds the winds have waited,
Unto lands beyond the Sea.
Seeds of worth– that now unnoticed,
Trodden down shall yet expand–
Silently shall grow and flourish,
Bearing fruit in every land.
Bearing fruit for Eve's fair daughters,
Who so long have kissed the sod,
Freedom's fruit that yet shall lift them,
To the plane approved by God.
Zion's sons their work are doing,
Zion's daughters much have done,
Never will their tasks be finished,
Till the cause of Right is won.
Earnest men, and faithful women,
Tried and proven as by fire;
Who have braved the world's opinion,
And the rabble's murderous ire;
Earnest men, and faithful women,
Dauntless as a phalanx strong,
Will (by angel hosts assisted)
Still oppose the Right to Wrong.
In the coming generations–
Hearts shall with approval glow,
Of their faith, who claim such women,
As our own Eliza Snow!
Years we trust will yet be added,
To her past ripe seventy-seven:
And for this the heart felt wishes,
Of her friends ascend to Heaven.
Cheerfully we pay the tribute,
That to life long worth we owe
Thus we celebrate the birth-day
Of our own Eliza Snow.


[Column 1]
LIVING LINKS:
OR 
SPIRITUAL AND TEMPORAL

BY AVONDALE.

CONTINUED.
	Before the "honeymoon" had passed away, a
visit to the country was projected by Mr. Wil-
liam Unipod for his newly married bride; the
father of that gentleman lived in Rutlandshire,
one of the midland counties of England,
Traveling in those days was something serious,
and the means of transit were slow. A visit
to the Black Swan, in Holborn, from which
hostlery sundry conveyances started regularly,

[Column 2]
made known the fact that on "every Monday,
Wednesday and Friday those persons who
wanted to go to Stamford could do so by stage
coach, at which place they would arrive in two
days (if God permits), and return the same;"
also that "passengers could be booked at the
Black Swan, in Holborn, London, or at the
Black Swan in Stamford- 14 lbs weight al-
lowed with each person, 3d per pound extra."
And as Stamford was the nearest town to con-
veniently reach "Whittam on the hill," which
could be done by post chaise, it was decided to
secure inside places by the said stage coach, for
which the very respectable sum of two guineas
was accordingly paid, "as a guarantee that
Mr. and Mrs. Unipod would be passengers on
the day bargained for, or forfeit the money."
This was in 1792.
	Whittam on the hill was reached in safety,
without any other than the ordinary tribula-
tions of traveling in those still perilous times.
	There is something charming in country life
in England, especially to those who have been
for a long time pent up in a crowded city like
London. The home of Mr. Henry Unipod,
farmer and grazier, was certainly a comfortable
one; beneath its ample roof it contained almost
everything one could need to make home happy.
Cosiness and cleanliness vied with each other
to make every part of this abode delightful.
It was impossible to tell which to admire the
most, the perfect order preserved in the estab-
lishment, or the thorough cheerfulness of those
who made such order possible—all were happy.
At daylight the farm hands met in the large
hall adjacent to the parlor, the table spread
with chines of bacon, smoking hot vegetables,
and brown bread; pies of an enormous size,
containing pork and peas, onions and apples,
in a solidified mass of jelly, seasoned in the
most agreeable manner. "Black jacks," or
jugs full of foaming homemade beer, and
pitchers of the whitest kind of earthen ware,
filled with sparkling water fresh from the
spring. No tea or coffee for the farm hands
was allowed, and such things as spirituous
liquors were never seen. 
	Morning meal over, away went the men to
their work, carrying with them a lunch of hard
bread and harder cheese, with a keg of beer,
to refresh themselves at midday. Home again
at four o'clock; the evening meal was partaken
of, consisting of roast meat, fowls and pastry,
that had been left from the parlor dinner-table.
	Where the cooking was done no one could
scarcely tell, except that at sundry times a spit
was turning before the fire of the kitchen
range, a duty that was performed by a "turn-
spit" dog, with his feet admirably turned out-
wards to perform the duties of his calling, who
knew when he was wanted, and presented him-
self to do his turn on the wheel.
	As to Farmer Unipod, he was also up with
the lark, and after taking a "bite" with the men,
he would go round the farm and return to
breakfast at six o'clock, when the family met
and partook of an ample meal, the ladies only
indulging in tea.
	By this time the milking had been done, the
cows turned out in the meadows. The ladies
would see to the "rennet" for curdling the
"meal" of milk for cheese-making. Any clean-
ing that had to be done was then attended to.
The cheese curd was broken up, strained and
put into suitable presses. Then scalding and
rinsing of tubs was attended to, so as to be
ready for to-morrow. Then the red brick floor

[Column 3]
was cleaned till it was bright as a cherry. The
farm work for the women was then done for
the day, and they were seen knitting, sewing
and spinning for the evening.
	As to the "parlor folks," they were attended
to by a maid servant, whose duty it was to
have meals prepared in the kitchen, and to
wait upon the household, she having the keys
of sundry closets and rooms, as butteries,
cheeserooms, and receptacles for hams, pickles,
preserves and groceries, for domestic consump-
tion. The parlor life at Farmer Unipod's was
pleasant in the extreme. They were on visit-
ing terms with the gentry, intimately ac-
quainted with the vicar and his lady, and the 
curate never passed the door without calling
in to retail the news of the day and take "just
one glass of Mr. Unipod's famous ale." Mr.
Unipod himself was a genial gentleman, who 
had made money by stock raising; he had some
of the finest meadows in the county, kept good
horses, of which he was a most excellent judge;
he had good shooting and fishing on his farm,
was liberal to the poor, and a regular attend-
ant at church. Such a man could not be other
than respected in the neighborhood. And
when it was known that "Master William," the
eldest son of the worthy farmer, had brought
down his young wife from London, everybody
was anxious to make her acquaintance, and to
extend to her their hospitalities. Long, long
did the memory of those days of happiness re-
main with Mary Lindsay, now the wife of
William Unipod, who, although much her se-
nior in years, treated her with reverential re-
spect, and did his best endeavor to smooth the
path she had to tread in after life.
	Several weeks were spent at Whittam on the 
hill, a place lovely for situation; all the ravines
and copses became quite familiar to the "Lon-
don Lady," as Mrs. William Unipod was fa-
miliarly called. It was a treat also to visit the
village church; for although the walls had but
few monuments and tablets to relieve the same-
ness of the whitewash, the chancel was em-
bellished with many little niches, filled with
sculpturing by some of the best artists. There
was also paneling in oak, worm eaten, by rea-
son of a venerable antiquity, but this had
been renovated, under the direction of the
young curate; a "delightful man," who was al-
most idolized by the ladies. Then there was a
baptismal font of most exquisite workmanship,
on which were the arms of the Unipods, in re-
membrance of its having been presented by
some former member of that family. All
these things were very precious to Mary Lind-
say, bringing back to memory associations of
the most agreeable kind, and although the in-
tonations and chantings common to the larger
churches were wanting, the simplicity and
solemnity of the services were not the less sub-
lime and consolatory.
	Before Mrs. William Unipod had hardly
had time to recognize all the various persons
who assembled for public worship in the nu-
merous pews, the time of returning to London
arrived. The great pew for the church ward-
ens everybody knew; there it was with its tall
hassocks made of flaming red leather, soft to
kneel on, and sufficiently high for the dutiful
officials to be seen kneeling before all the con-
gregation. Then the wands overlaid with gold
were placed in the exact position where the
church wardens and other great parochial au-
thorities would kneel. Then there was the
"big pew," as the people called it, the sides of


which were  high, and  the  entrance  to  which
was  in  an  obscure corner, where the "Squire"
from  the "big  house" could enter  unobserved,
and  retire when he  pleased, without disturbing
the congregation.  These, and the chancel win-
dow  of  stained  glass, in  which  the  figures  of
the  Apostles  were  seen,  grouped  around,  the
form which is everywhere recognized so readily,
that of our Savior--these, all these  and more,
had only  just  become  familiar,  when  Mr. and
Mrs. Unipod had to return again to London.
 Hallowed for  centuries have been the  eccle-
siastical  edifices  in which  our  forefathers wor-
shipped;  the  devotional feeling  engendered by
their awe-inspiring surroundings and ceremonial
observances  are  not without  their meaning  to
the  thoughtful.   If humanity  saw  the  truth
"as  through a glass  darkly," there was  a  dim
perception  of  the  existence  of Deity; a lying
logic had not  yet learned to deny the being  of
a  God  because  of the excellency and majesty
of the methods of creation!
To be Continued.


WOMAN'S  EXPONENT.


LIFE INCIDENTS. 
	    		   -------
	BY HELEN  MAR WHITNEY.
			  --------
		   [CONTINUED.]
	There are thousands  who  can  testify  to  the
truth  of  the  words  contained  in  the  charge
given  by  Brother O. Cowdery to  the  Twelve
Apostles previous to starting on their first mis-
sion, and although he was among the ones who
first turned aside, yet we know that  he  spoke
by  the  spirit and  power  of  the  Almighty, for
his words have been fufilled. The Church at
that time was but  a little handful,  as it were,
and therefore  weak  in  faith  when  compared
with those who have  had a  longer  experience
and can see and better understand the purposes
of our Heavenly  Father.  If  we have  not im-
proved it is because we have  witnessed the
fulfillment of the Prophet  Joseph's words from
that day to this and how can we doubt the rest.
When I think  of the miraculous power that has
been  manifested  at different  times  in  our  de-
liverance  from  the  cunning  devices  of  our
enemies  and  to  witness  the  faith  and  hope
which the Saints have clung to, enabling them
to patiently endure the sneers and scoffs of the
world, and  all the  aggravating trails which
have been heaped  upon  them for  over  fifty
years, I wonder that  anybody can be so blind
as not  see and  realize  that  none but Saints
who are looking to the future beyond this short
piobation for their  reward, could or would for
a moment submit to  these wrongs;  but we can
afford to wait for we know that  the  Almighty,
who has fought  our  battles  will  continue to,
and overthrow  our enemies  if we  faithfully
perform  our part.
	The following interesting  sketches  are from
my fathers Journal.
 After giving a description of the house of the
Lord in  Kirtland he says:  "This building was
commenced  in  1833,  in poverty and  without
means  to do it. In 1834  they completed  the
walls, and in 1835 and 6  they  nearly  finished
it.  The cost was  between  60 and 70,000 dol-
lars. *	*	* The  house was  dedicated to
the Lord on the 27th day of March  1836. *
*	* During the  ceremonies of the dedica-
tion an angel appeared and sat near President
Joseph Smith, Sen., and Frederick G. Williams
so that they had a fair view of his person. He
was a very tall  personage,  black  eyes, white
hair, and  stoop  shouldered,  his garment was
white, extending to near his ankles, on his feet
he had sandals.  He was sent as  a  messenger
to accept of the dedication. *	  *	  *
	In the winter of 1834 and 35, all the princi-
pal Elders in  upper  Missouri  came down to
Kirtland according to  previous appointment.
Some of them  spent  the summer laboring on
the house, while others traveled and  preached
in the Eastern and Southern States."
	Among the outside world there has been and
still is an  impression  that the "Mormons" are
not particular about having schools, or educat-
ing their children.  This  of course is only one
out of many other false ideas cherished by them
against the Latter-day  Saints.  The following
which I copy  from my father's Journal shows
that they are ignorant  of our faith and princi-
ples, for  it  was  a  command that the  Saints
should  seek learning &c.  "In  the  fall,  and
early part of the winter  of  1835-6  the Priest-
hood  of Israel  consisting  of  elders, priests,
teachers and deacons, gathered to Kirtland to
the number  of four hunderd and  sixteen who
remained there  through  the  winter.  Schools
were instituted  for  their  use;  many studied
English  Grammar, Geography,  History and
other branches.  We also  employed  the cele-
brated  Hebrew teacher  Professer Leixas, who
gave us much  insight into the language in a
short time.  The first  Presidency, the Twelve,
Bishops, High Counselors and Elders, attended
this school.  The Elders and Church had been
previously commanded to  seek learning, study
the best  books and  get a  knowledge of coun-
tries, kingdoms, languages, &c., which inspired
us  with an  untiring  thirst  after  knowledge.
Several months  previous to this we had been
commanded to prepare ourselves for a solemn
assembly. At length the time arrived for this
assembly to meet, previous to  which President
Joseph  Smith  Jun., exhorted  the  Elders to
solemnize their minds, by casting  away  every
evil from  them  in  thought, word,  or  deed,
and  to  let  their  hearts  become sanctified,
because they need to expect  a  blessing from
God without being  duly prepared  for it, for
the Holy  Ghost would  not  dwell  in unholy
temples. *	*	* The solemn assembly took
place soon  after  the  House of  the  Lord had
been dedicated."  After  describing  the  cere-
monies of washing and anointing and conferring
blessings upon  the  President  and  Counselors
and the  different  quorums,  father continues.
"While these things were being attended to the
beloved discple John was seen in our midst by
Brother Joseph Smith Jun.  Oliver Cowdrey
and others.  After  this all the quorums arose
in order together with  the  three  presidencies;
and the Twelve  then  presenting  themselves
separately  and  individually  before  the  first
Presidency, with hand uplifted towards heaven,
asked of God whatever they felt to desire; and
after each individual petition, the whole of the
quorums answered  aloud  Amen  and Amen.
The 6th day of April being the  day  appointed
for fasting and praying, all the Elders, Priests,
Teachers and Deacons,  numbering  about four
hundred,  met  together  in  the  house  of the
Lord to attend to  further  ordinances none be-
ing premited to enter, but official members who
had previously received their washing  and an-
ointing."  After the  ordinances were attended
to, father  continues.  "They  then  took their
seats, each quorum seating  themselves in their 
respective places and continued in fasting and
praying prophesying and exhortation until even-
ing.  A sufficient quantity of bread having been
provided to  feed  this  whole assembly; it was
broken by the first Presidency, and afterwards
the  Twelve took  it and  administered  to the
congregation until they were all filled."
	The wine was made and provided by Bishop
N.  K.  Whitney  for  this  occasion.  It  was
blessed by the first Presidency and  distributed
to the congregation by the Twelve;  father says,
"This  order  of  things is similar to  that which
was attended to by the Savior amongst his dis-
ciplos, previous to his ascension.  * *  The
meeting  continued  on  through the night, the
spirit  of  prophecy  was  poured  out  upon  the
assembly, and cloven  tongues  of fire  sat upon
them;  they were  seen  by  many  of  the  congre-
gation.  Also  angels  administered  to many,
and also were  seen  by  many.  This  continued
several  days, and  was  attended  by  a  marvel-
ous  spirit  of  prophecy,  and  for  a  number  of
weeks  our  time  was  spent  in  visiting  from
house  to  house, administering bread  and wine
and pronouncing blessings  upon  each  other to
that degree, that from the external appearances
one  would  have  supposed  that  the  last  days
had  surely  come,  in  which  the  Spirit  of  the
Lord  was  poured  out  upon all flesh, as far as
the  church  was  concerned,  for  the  sons  and
daughters  of Zion  were  full  of prophesying.
In this  prophesying  great  blessings were pro-
nounced upon the faithful, and also great curs-
ings upon the ungodly, or upon those who had
smitten us.  During this time  great  and  mar-
velous  visions  were  seen, one  of  which  I will
mention,  which  Bro.  Joseph  Smith, Jun., had
concerning  the Twelve.  His  anxiety was and
had  been  very  great  for  their  welfare, when
the following vision was  manifested to  him, as
near  as  I  can  recollect.  He saw the Twelve
going  forth, and  they appeared  to be on a far
distant  land;  after  some  time  they unexpect-
edly met together, apparently in great  tribula-
tion, their  clothes  all  ragged and their knees
and  feet  sore.  They formed into a circle, and
all stood with their eyes fixed upon the ground.
The  Savior  appeared  and stood in their midst
and wept over them, and wanted to show Him-
self  to  them, but  they did  not  discover Him.
He saw until they had accomplished their work
and  arrived  at  the  gate  of the celestial  city;
there  Father Adam stood  and opened the gate
to  them, and  as  they  entered,  he embraced
them one by one  and kissed  them.  He then
led  them  to  the throne of God, and then the
Savior embraced  each one of  them and kissed
them, and crowned each  one  of  them  in  the
presence  of God;  he  saw  that  they  had  all 
beautiful heads of hair, and all looked  alike."
The  impression this vision  left  on Brother Jo-
seph's  mind was  of so acute a nature, that he
never  could  refrain  from  weeping  while  re-
hearsing it."
	Those were truly glorious seasons enjoyed by
the Latter-day Saints  in  Kirtland, after pass-
ing through so much sorrow and the many pri-
vations  endured  while troiling to  build  the
house  of  the  Lord.  They  were  thankful to
see that  day, for He was true  to his  promise.
It  seemed  as  though  they stood  in a need of a
double portion, because of their sufferings there
and  also  in  the  State  of  Missouri, where so
many of  their brethren had been cut down by
the cholera.  The  Lord  in  his  tender mercy,
knowing  they had  been  obedient and patient,
blessed  them with  those miraculous manifesta-
tions.
	I have  read  this vision  many  times, and it
always  brings  the  same  heavenly influence,
lifting as it were the  curtain which hides eter-
nity  from  our  view, showing  to  us  the  pure
love  and  charity which characterized  the life
of our blessed Savior, whose example we should
all strive to imitate.  I feel sure that the Lord
will be more  merciful towards those who stum-
bled and  fell by the wayside in the  early start
of the  church, than  He  will  be  to  the  ones
who  have  become  farther  advanced  in  the
knowledge  of  the  truth, and then  apostatized.
I would admonish my young friends to beware
of  apostacy,  more  especially  those  who  have
been  endowed with  the  blessings  of the Holy
Priesthood, which  are  the  most sacred  of all.
To me there is nothing that is so terrible as the
doom of an apostate.  I have no recollection of
the  dedication, or the  solemn assembly which
took place in  the Temple at Kirtland, not be-
ing present, but  have  heard  my  parents  des-
cribe  it.  I  remember  the  love  which  the
Twelve Apostles manifested  towards  one  an-
other, as  they  frequently met  together  at my
father's house, not  council, but some of


them met there to study the Hebrew language.
President Thomas B. Marsh I can remember,
with others, seated around the table studying,
and they would frequently practice talking
Hebrew, which afforded us children considera-
ble amusement, and often they would burst out
laughing at their own awkward mistakes.
They were all young men, and as humble as
little children. I often heard my parents
speak of those days and how their hearts were
bound together as one. They were willing to
go without purse or scrip to the nations to
preach the Gospel, the spirit and power of
their mission resting down upon them. If they
had always cultivated that humility, nothing
could have destroyed their union.
				To be continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 131


MY HEART.

Though all the world proclaim me good and noble.
	Tho' friend and foe, alike, should speak my fame.
Yet must I stand in sorrow, hushed and humbled,
	Unless my heart can speak to me the same.

Truly "its own bitterness, each heart knoweth,"
	Each knoweth best his own besetting sins,
Though by no outward sign its weakness showeth,
	The Heart will claim no praise but what it wins.

Though 'mong my friends I bear an unstained record,
	God knoweth if my heart is pure and true;
Before Him lies my life nor jor, nor tittle,
	Of sin, or weakness hidden from his view.

What though the world condemn me without mercy,
	And rumor's forked tongue should peirce me through;
Yet if my heart approves it cannot hurt me,
	The earth is just as green, the sky as blue.

Though some may misconstrue my words and motives,
	May scan my actions with a critic's eye,
Yet if I only sim for truth and justice,
	My father's tender love will bear me by.

O precious boon! O gift of highest heaven!
	The inner consciousness of pure desire,
No carthly honor, nor no worldly censure
	Can dim they lustre, or quench thy fire.
							ESTHER A. BENNION.
	VERNON, JAN. 18th, 1881.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
WOMAN.

ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

(Continued from No 12, Nov. 15 1880.)

	Sister Eliza may be said to have commenced
a new era in her life when she arrived in the
valley. To be sure the first year was spent in
retirement, home duties, and comforting the
Saints who came round her in hours of trial,
for those were the days which tried the souls of
men and women; days of adversity, and yet heav-
en showered down rich blessings upon them.
Her pen was busy at every available moment
and many were consoled, strengthened and
encouraged by the inspirational muse, who
never has forsaken her under any circumstance,
or changes. Sister Eliza felt a little lonely in
those days being separated from some of the
sisters with whom she had been intimately as-
sociated, but still she rejoiced that she had
reached a haven of rest after having partici-
pated in the persecutions and exile of the
Saints. Her health improved and her Spirit
soared aloft and she drank in invigorating
draughts of intelligence, which were poured
out in verse and song and psalms of praise.
	She had been designated by Joseph the
prophet, Zion's Poetess; and though he was
gone, and her years were multiplying, she con-
tinued to write and a double portion of the
spirit of her mission and calling seemed to rest
upon her. Her diligence her faithfulness, and
integrity are worthy emulation by the
daughters of Zion. When yearning tenderly
for those she had left behind, in November

[Column 2]
1847, she wrote a poem entitled "Come To The
Valley" addressed to Sisters M. A. Young,
Vilate Kimball and E. A. Whitney, from
which we quote a verse or two showing her
anxiety to be reunited with them.

"Oft my spirit seems to mingle
	With you, whereso'er you are;
Than you soon may reach the valley,
	Is my earnest daily prayer."

*		*		*		*		*		*		*

"All is well, is well in Zion—
	Zion is the pure in heart:
Come along, you holy women,
And your blessings here impart."

*		*		*		*		*		*		*

I anticipate the period
	When you to the valley come:
Haste and leave your Winter-Quarters—
	Here you'll find a better home."

	Peaceful and contented in her humble home;
full of faith and buoyant in spirit she trod the
path of duty. In the fall of 1848, Pres. Young
arrived in the valley, and this was a time of
public rejoicing and demonstration, and Sister
Eliza as was her wont chronicled in verse
the important event. It was entitled "The
Salutation" and inscribed to President Young
and his Counselors. The poem is published
in volume one of "Poems by E. R. Snow," page
196. We regret we cannot publish more of
her poetical writing in this short sketch, but
we will give here one verse from the "Saluta-
tion.

"To our Chieftain all hail to his counselors too,
	With the Camp of the Saints that escaped from Nau-
		voo;
"Up through great tribulation," indeed you have come-
	To this beautiful valley we welcome you home."

	After Pres. Young's arrival the city began
to be built up and he made arrangements for
his family to have comfortable homes though
of course they were primitive in all their ap-
pointments. These cottages are yet referred to
as the "Log Row," and were situated just above
what is known as the Eagle Gate. In one of
these Sister Eliza dwelt and many of her
choicest articles were written there. As time
passed on a place was consecrated in which
holy ordinances might be administered and
then it became necessary that woman should
perform her part of the sacred work. Sister
Eliza was called upon to take part in these
administrations, as a Priestess in the House of
the Lord, in which calling she has officiated
up to the present. Thousands of the daughters
of Zion, have received blessings under her hands,
and therefore with the utmost propriety she
may be called a Mother in Israel. In every
public assembly where women took part she
has been an active participant, and in Mormon
history she has been ever conspicuous. She
has written much both in prose and poetry for
public gatherings and demonstrations and
perhaps no other woman has attained such
popularity among this people. She is re-
cognized as a leader, and stands to-day in the
front rank and at the head of the Latter-day
Saint women's organizations. Sometime sub-
sequent to the settling of the valley and when
wards and settlements were pretty generally
systematized Pres. Young called for a reorgani-
zation of the Relief Society which had form-
erly existed in the days of Nauvoo. He called
on Sister Eliza to assist in these organizations,
and associate with her in this labor
Sister Zina D. Young. This gave to Eliza
and Zina the precedence which they have since
held. In the work of organizing Sister Eliza
stands pre-eminent among women.
	'Her life has been consecrated to Gospel
work and devoted to the elevation of woman
and her redemption from the condition in
which she has been so long held, helping to
lift her into that freedom of action and range
of thought from which custom and tradition

[Column 3]
have for ages excluded her. In this connection
we may with propriety mention that the opin-
ion of the world regarding woman's position in
this Church is entirely astray. The principles
and spirit of the Gospel are "altogether incom-
patible with the serfdom of woman." At a
mass meeting of 5 or 6 000 women held in Salt
Lake City Jan. 13, 1870, just previous to the
granting of the franchise, by the Utah Legis-
lature in Feb. of the same year, a woman's meet-
ing called on purpose to enter a protest against
the "Cullom Bill," Sister Eliza made a strong
and brilliant speech from which we make a
brief extract as illustrative of the assertion
made above. "Our enemies pretend that, in
Utah, woman is held in a state of vassalage—
that she does not act from choice but by coer-
sion—that we would even prefer life elsewhere,
were it possible for us to make our escape,
What nonsense! We all know that if we wished
we could leave at any time—either to go singly,
or to rise enmasse, and there is no power here
that could, or would wish to prevent us."
	"I will now ask of this assemblage of intelli-
gent ladies do you know of any place on the
face of the earth, where woman has more
liberty: and where she enjoys such high and
glorious privileges as she does here as a Latter-
day Saint? No! the very idea of a woman here
in a state of slavery is a burlesque on good
common sense."	*	*	*	Were we
the stupid, degraded, heart-broken beings that
we have been represented, silence might better
become us, but as women of God filling high
and responsible positions, performing sacred
duties—women who stand not as dictator, but
as counselors to their husbands, and who, in
the purest, noblest sense of refined womanhood,
are truly their helpmates—We not only speak
because we have the right but justice and hum-
anity demands we should."
	Politically this grand mass meeting was the
turning point in the history of the women of
Utah, for ere another month had elapsed the
legislature had passed the bill giving suffrage
to woman and she was free in the sense of cit-
izenship. In this Sister Eliza rejoiced feeling as
all spiritual women do impressed with the great
question of the period which involves woman's
emancipation. Sister Eliza realizes the im-
portance attached to these growing responsibili-
ties and the urgent necessity of educating
women to appreciate the ballot as well as to
exercise her physical agency by going to the
polls.
			[To be Continued.]


FRIENDSHIP.

	I have just been reading some of our dear
sisters' thoughts in our excellent paper. I
would like to say a few words on friendship,
that, to me, is the greatest blessing of life;
apart from our own hearthstone. A true friend
in all life's phases is truly a blessing; one who
can see your imperfections (as none are exempt)
sometimes feel them, but true as steel a friend
in childhood, a friend in old age, a friend in
all life's vicissitudes one to whom you can lay
open your heart's secrets good or ill, still your
friend to do you good; reproof from such a
one is sweet to the ear. Such a friend is price-
less. Oh! my sister let us cultivate true friend-
ship like Damon and Pythias, be true to the
death, with no thought of reward, no guile.
My old friends are dear indeed, tried and true.
God bless all those who seek to live upright
before him who dwelleth in the heavens. Ever
be faithful and true.
								B. M. J. B
	RICHMOND, DEC. 19, 1880.


MRS. Hayes is said to be a women of re-
markable endurance. She never has any ill-
ness except an occasional sick-headache, and
looks much younger than she is—forty-nine.


132	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: One copy one year, $2. 00; one copy six months
$1.00 Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.50: per month, $3. 00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, Lower West Room of the Council
House, South Temple Street. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEBRUARY 1, 1881.


[Column 1]
WOMAN DEFENDS THE POSITION.

	Naturally one cannot help feeling a little in-
dignant at the course pursued by Gov. Murray
in issuing the certificate of election to Mr. Camp-
bell who only received 1,357 instead of Mr. Can-
non who received the overwhelming majority of
18,558. It is not very remarkable that women
citizens who represent a large part of the votes
of the Territory should feel nettled over the
affair; it is well known that a short time previ-
ous to the election a mandamus was issued or-
dering all the names of women to be stricken off
the registration list, which would have materi-
ally decreased the number of votes on both sides
and by that means the "Liberal" party expected
to carry the election. This little scheme did
not succeed, the good genius of woman pervailed
on that occasion and her claim to the franchise
was honorably sustained. Yes this is one of the
pleas made by Campbell in extenuation of Mur-
ray's official assumption that the votes cast for
Mr. Cannon were the votes of women and con-
sequently illegal. How very magnaminous!
How everybody must admire this noble man,
who to screen the governer must draw such a
flimsy veil over him and throw the blame upon
woman! How grandly Mr. Campbell heralded
forth his nomination by urging women every-
where to vote for him, as their friend one who
would take their part, lift them up, exalt them!
How specially gratifying is the result! How
magnaminous he stands forth in woman's de-
fense! It is strange how men will persist in the
same course pursued ages ago, and cry "The
woman did it," and the newspapers must for-
sooth echo the old-time saying "Woman is at
the bottom of the mischief," even thongh they
do not justify Gov. Murray.
	It is a great pity for Mr. Campbell that he
should have manifested so little justice in an
affair where he professed so much gallantry, for
should he desire to be counted in by the ladies
again, he would make a sorry showing.
	There is no doubt in the mind of any well-
informed person that Mr. Cannon would have
been elected by a considerable majority, had
Maxwell's plan succeeded, and all the women
of Utah been disfranchised. The non-Mormon
population is comparatively small, and the peo-
ple had nothing whatever to fear on that score
by the disfranchisement of woman. It was not
a question of the strength of numbers that
caused the Utah Legislature to concede to wo-
man her political rights, but because the very
genius of "Mormonism" required it, and this
truth will one day be recognized.
	Once having obtained the right to the ballot,
it is not likely that any woman valuing the
blessing and p[-]ivilege truly as an American
citizen, will be likely to look with any degree of
complacency on those who would wrest it from

[Column 2]
her. "Mormon" women vote on all religious
questions, on all political question, on all social
questions, in fact they are a "part and parcel of
the body politic," and are not "goods and chat-
tels," not serfs, but free women, with the liberty
of conscience and of action. They have en-
dured much, and are strong, not weak, and their
daughters have inherited their strength of
character,and are prepared with their brothers to
valiantly maintain the position of their mothers
on this question of rights and privileges. They
are a strength and a power in the land, even
without the ballot, and when men talk of help-
ing "Mormon" women to free themselves from
thralldom and oppression, they talk the veriest
nonsense. "Mormon" women do not need their
aid: with the same courage and fortitude, which
helped them to brave the wilderness and desert,
with their fathers, husbands and brothers, they
are still endowed: their courage does not falter,
and they are not easily intimidated. They trust
in the arm of the Almighty and not in the arm
of flesh.


[Column 1]
BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	In Ogden, January 21, the birthday of Presi-
dent Eliza R. Snow Smith was celebrated in a
most appropriate manner. A social party was
given in her honor by the officers of the presid-
ing boards of Relief Societies and Young Ladies'
and Young Mens' Associations of Weber County,
Mrs. Jane S. Richarks and her Counselors hav-
ing charge of the arrangements; Pres. Peery
and Counselors, also the Bishops of Ogden City
assisting very materially in preparations. The
Relief Societies of Ogden prepared a free ban-
quet. Invitations were issued to all the Bishops
and Presidents of R. S., Y. L. and Y. M. M. I.
A. in Weber Stake, to participate in the festivi-
ties of the happy occasion. About two hundred
and fifty persons assembled in Union Hall, and
by invitation of Pres. Peery, Bishop N. C. Fly-
gare made the opening prayer. Dancing com-
menced at six o'clock, the very best music hav-
ing been provided. No numbers were issued,
yet the most perfect order was observed by all.
Pres. Wilford Woodruff and wife were present
bv invitation, also honorable C. W. Penrose and
wife and Mrs. E. B. Wells, of Salt Lake City.
At about half past nine the company repaired
to the 2d Ward meeting House, an elegant new
building, where tables were set for the guests
with all the choice varieties of good things
which refresh the body, and two hundred and
fifteen persons sat down to partake the bounties
provided. Of the Quorum of the Apostles there
were present Wilford Woodruff and Franklin D.
Richards, also Mayor Herrick, Counselor Mid-
dleton, Hon. C. W. Penrose, Judge Williams
and F. S. Richards, Esq. The blessing was pro-
nounced by Pres. Woodruff. Mrs. J. S. Richards
was the presiding genius of the feast, flitting
from table to table, anxious that all should be
plentifully helped and faithfully served. It
were worse than useless to attempt to enumer-
ate the luxuries with which the "tables groaned."
The ladies who waited looked charming in their
white aprons, and very gracefully filled the on-
erous positions. Supper over, the company re.
turned to Union Hall, where dan[--]ng was re-
sumed; but soon Elder F. D. Richards called
the attention of the audience, and read the re-
ply of Sister Eliza to the telegram inviting her
to be present, and in a most happy manner made
a few brief remarks, regretting the absence of
the lady. He spoke of the inestimable worth
of the one whose birth they were celebrating,
of her untiring labors in Weber County in help-
ing to organize and instruct; of her great gift
and talent in writing, which had ever been a
blessing and comfort to the Elders upon their

[Column 2]
missions in foreign lands, to the prophets of
God, to the Saints in the midst of persecution,
and in fact to all; of her association with the
Church in early days, and the integrity she had
maintained to the Gospel, that her example was
noble and worthy of emulation by the daughters
of Zion. Mrs. E. B. Wells then read the poem
"Our Own Eliza Snow," which is published on
the first page. Mrs. R. Monch next read an ad-
dress written by herself, in behalf of the sisters,
and inscribed to Sister Eliza. Pres. Wilford
Woodruff made the closing speech. Referred to
his first acquaintance with the lady whose birth
they were celebrating, her faithfulness and un-
faltering energy in the Gospel, her extraordinary
ability as a writer, and exhorted the young to
imitate her many excellencies of character. He
spoke in praise of the sisters' labor in the Relief
Societies, and exhorted all to live lives of purity
and obedience to the requirements of the Gospel.
At the suggestion of Sister Jane S. Richards,
the assembly joined in singing, "Praise to the
man who communed with Jehovah." Coun.
Middleton pronounced the benediction, and the
company dispersed before twelve o'clock.
	Mrs. Richards and the ladies of Ogden who
took part in arranging for the celebration, may
with propriety congratulate themselves on the
complete success of this public demonstration,
and Aunt Eliza may justly be proud of the honor
shown on this memorable occasion, although her
presence would have added greatly to the enjoy-
ment of the evening. It was a flattering testi-
monial of the love and esteem in which she is
held by the people of Weber County.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE second edition of the "Children's Primary,
Hymn Book" will be ready for sale in about ten
days. Plenty of "Tune Books" ready at this
office.

	SISTERS M. I. Horne and S. M. Heywood at-
tended the Relief Society Conference of Davis
Stake, which was held at Centerville Jan. 21,
Mrs. S. I. Holmes presiding. The meetings
were excellent and the reports creditable.

	THE Home Dramatic Club gave "The Bank-
er's Daughter" at the Theatre on Wednesday
evening, Jan. 26, for the benefit of the Alta suf-
ferers. The citizens of Salt Lake manifested
their appreciation of the play and the occasion
by filling the house.

	SISTER Eliza's birthday, Jan 21, was celebrated
in St. George with due honor, as well as in Og-
den. Although in St. George they had the
pleasure of the presence of this illustrious lady,
and in Ogden we were compelled to supply the
deficiency with a fertile imagination. Mrs. E.
R. S. Smith has reached her 77th anniversary.
She is healthy and vigorous in body and mind,
and her spiritual faculties grow brighter as each
year rolls by.

	BRO. Wm. G. Heberhart has opened business
at the old stand of H. J. Richards & Co. Bro.
Heberhart is an enterprising young man and
thoroughly reliable as a druggist, having been
disciplined in the business in his brother's es-
tablishment in Madison, Indiana. Since he
came to Utah in June, 1879, he has been em-
ployed in Z. C. M. I. Drug Department, until
he bought out the Richard's establishment. Bro.
H. is an industrious and persevering young man,
and worthy the patronage of the public.

	MISS Ada Dwyer of this city, a pupil of Prof.
Hamill, the elocutionist, has been giving read-
ings as a professional in Utah County. Her ren-
dering of the pieces chosen produced quite a
sensation, we are told. As we have never, heard
her, we are not prepared to express an opinion.


[Column 1]
but she is highly spoken of by those who are
considered competent judges. Miss Ada is
young, and possesses many excellent capabili-
ties which would attract an audience. She
has fine ability, and we have no doubt will be
successful, if she possesses sufficient continuity
and determination. One cannot win fame in
any profession without these requisites.

	THURSDAY, Jan. 20, was the anniversary of
the birthday of Mrs. Ellis R. Shipp, M. D.
Over forty of her friends called upon her in the
form of a surprise party, at her residence in the
11th Ward. After partaking of the bountiful
repast served to all, the ladies' attention was
called to a sort of literary entertainment. Dr.
Ellen B. Ferguson read a poem composed ex-
pressly for the occasion by Mrs. A. J. Chroche-
ron, and presented Mrs. Shipp, in the name of a
few friends, with an elegant gold ring, on which
was engraven her name and Y. L. A. This was
followed by an original poem, Mrs. M. A. Freeze;
impromptu addresses, Mrs. E. B. Wells and Ro-
mania B. Pratt, M. D.; original article, Lillle
Freeze; recitation, "Jennie Mc'Neal's Ride,"
Alice Freeze; and other similar exercises. A
happy spirit was manifested throughout all the
varied entertainment of the evening. Dr. Shipp
was warmly congratulated by her many ardent
and true-hearted friends.

	AN anniversary meeting of the 17th Ward Y.
L. M. I. A. was held, and entertainment given,
at the residence of Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall, on
Tuesday, Jan. 18. Opened by singing, "Let Zion
in her beauty rise;" prayer by Pres. H. T. King.
Annual report was read by the Secretary, fol-
lowed by a song by Miss Minnie Felt, "Call and
Answer." Mrs Nanie Leavitt essay on the
"Creation of Man." Miss Louie Ellerbeck piano
solo. Miss Mamie Alford recitation. Address
by Mrs. Hannah T. King. Impromptu address
Miss Belle Clayton. Remarks were then made
suited to the occasion by Mrs. E. S. Taylor, M.
A. Freeze, Marinda Hyde, M. I Horne, Julia
Howe, E. B. Wells, Louie Felt, Miss Minnie
Felt and Nanie Leavitt, and Mrs. S. M. Hey-
wood. Singing, "The Spirit of God." Prayer
by Sister Catharine Horrocks. After the meet-
ing was dismissed, the ladies all sat down to a
delicious repast, which, with the conversation
and association together, was calculated to re-
fresh and invigorate body and soul. An hour or
two was passed in friendly interchange of ideas
and opinions, and the guests and members dis-
persed, feeling it had been a good time indeed.

	ON Thursday, Jan. 20, we attended the annual
meeting of the 10th Ward Y. L. M. I. A. A
sumptuous dinner was given at 12 m., at the
residence of the President, Mrs. Mary Pierce.
After partaking, the ladies repaired to the meet-
ing house, and services commenced by singing
"Behold the Mountain of the Lord." Prayer by
Mrs. E. S. Taylor. Sung, "O my Father, thou
that dwellest." Minutes read and accepted.
Mrs. Mary A. Freeze made the opening speech,
Mrs. Louie Felt was the next speaker, then Mrs.
E. S. Taylor and Miss Mattie Horne. Mrs. M.
I. Horne, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. H. T. King
a[-]d Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall made some remarks.
The sisters expressing an earnest wish to hear
from the young ladies, the following responded
in short and spirited speeches: Ella Rogers, Jen-
nie Pyper, Annie Chandler, Harriet Earl, Eliza
Hansen, Martha Pierce, Agnes Harvey, M. Ed-
monds and Belle Clayton, also Mrs. Cheshire.
Mrs. Pierce expressed her pleasure in having so
many of the most intelligent sisters present,
who were able to give instruction. Meeting ad-
journed. Sung, "The Spirit of God," &c.
Prayer by Mrs. M. A. Freeze.

[Column 2]
	BISHOP Jacob Weiler and wife, of the Third
Ward in this city, recently paid a visit to their
friends in the East. They left Salt Lake Sept.
14, 1880, and went first to Hutchinson, Kansas,
where the Bishop's brother resides. They also
visited portions of Iowa, Indiana, Ohio and
Pennsylvania, traveling extensively in the last
two States. Everywhere the people were anx-
ious to converse with them about the resources
of Utah and the peculiarities of the "Mormon"
people, but few cared to hear the principles of
religion. Mrs. Weiler conversed with many
women of superior education and culture upon
the principle of plural marriage, and its adapta-
tion to p.actical life. Brother and Sister Weiler
found in many instances that all the informat-
tion the people had concerning the "Mormons"
had been gathered from books written against
us. Ann Eliza's, Mrs. Stenhouse's and Biddle's
Books were pretty widely circulated. Thought
some pamphlets would be useful to distribute in
those places. Mrs. Weiler believes much good
could be done among an intelligent class of peo-
ple by our sisters, for they seem eager to listen
to women on these subjects when men would
have no iuflue[-]ce; in fact they would not hear
them. Mr. and Mrs. Weiler returned on the
18th of December.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 133


AN ADDRESS.

Written upon the occasion of Sister E. R. Snow
Smith's birthday, recently celebrated in this city.

(From the Ogden Junction.)

BELOVED BRETHEREN AND SISTERS:
	We have met this evening, not only to mingle
in friendly and social converse, in dancing and
feasting, but also to commemorate the birthday
of our dear sister, Eliza R. Snow Smith, who is
at present in Southern Utah, and who, in conse-
quence of her prolonged visit there, is unable to
be with us on this occasion. We sincerely re-
gret her absence, knowing, as we do, that her
presence would add immeasurably to the plea-
sure of this evening's entertainment. We deem
it not inappropriate at this time to express, hum-
bly and briefly, the heartfelt love, esteem and
respect that we cherish towards her as a sister,
friend, and co-laborer in the Kingdom of God.
We appreciate her labors, though it may be im-
perfectly, and thank our Heavenly Father for
the blessing of so noble and useful a woman in
our midst. Many, if not all, who are here to-
night are acquainted with Sister Eliza's untiring
efforts in assisting to organize and establish the
various Relief Societies and Improvement As-
sociations in this Stake of Zion. We have seen
her brave the winds and storms of winter, and
the heat and dust of summer, that we might be
benefited. We have listened to her faithful
testimonies, her wise counsels and instructions,
and our minds have been enlightened, our hearts
cheered, and with renewed courage we have
pressed forward in the path of duty. Through
her great faith and power to bless, many a weak
and suffering sister has been made to rejoice.
Then why should we not love, respect and
honor her? To one who has devoted her time
and talents to the cause of truth, who has sacri-
ficed all for the Gospel's sake, surely honor is
due. Therefore we, the Latter-day Saint women
of Weber Stake, desire to do homage to her, on
this, the anniversary of her natal day. She is
dear to us all. Her intellectual works are house-
hold treasures. The young, for whose welfare
and improvement she has labored with such
deep earnestness, if they fail to appreciate her
now, will yet bless her name. She has truly
shown her faith by her works, and through her
works she has wrought out an influence for good
that can never die. She has lived long and well;


and though ripe in years and usefulness, may
she live yet many years to bless and be blessed.
And may we, the members of the Relief So-
ciety and Young Ladies' Association, imitate
the example of this good and true woman, and
strive to learn to appreciate the labors of those
who have braved persecution, confronted evil,
served long and faithfully in righteousness, and
have proved themselves noble men and women
of God.
						HATTIE C. BROWN.
	Ogden, January 21, 1881.


OBITUARY.

	DIED: at Mt. Pleasant Sanpete County Dec.
9th, 1880, Mary Tholman Winkler, of dropsy
after a lingering illness of 3 months, which she
bore with patient resignation, her faith in the
Priesthood being firm and unshaken to the last.
Sister Winkler was a member of the visiting
committee of our Relief Society, and filled that
office with honor and dignity like a true Saint
which she was. She was a native of Switzer-
land, born in Zell, Co., of Zurich, aged 40
years. Sister Winkler was the mother of 9
children, 4 of which are gone before, and five
are left with her sorrowing husband, to mourn
her early departure; as also a large circle of
friendswhodeeply sympathize with her bereaved
family and relatives.
						M. F. C. MORRISON.


CORRESPONDENCE.

					MESA, JAN. 3rd, 1881.
DEAR AUNT EM.—
	My health is not very good but I enjoy my
Arizona home very much, I would not exchange
it for one in Salt Lake if I could, although I
would like to see you all. We have the most
beautiful climate the heat is at first an objection
but one soon gets accustomed to it, and it is
rather more agreeable than otherwise. We are
having reinforcements from the North almost
daily now; this is the emigration season for this
country on account of having Deserts to cross.
Bro. David Kimball says Mesa is destined to be
the second city of Arizona,it certainly is growing
rapidly. We are thirty miles from the Southern
Pacific Rail Road, five days and a half from Salt
Lake. I live in hopes of seeing my Salt Lake
friends here to spend our delightful winters.
	Zulie has just returned from Phoenix our
county seat where she went to pass her ex-
amination as a teacher, she got a first class
diploma and will soon open school at Jonesville.
We have excellent laws regarding schools in
this territory.
	We have enrolled 64 children on our school
record. It has been estimated that we of Mesa
receive almost as much school money from the
county as the tax on our property. We have a
good school-house just finished and another is
already being talked of.
	Everybody that has not got their small grain
sown is hurrying to get it in, there is already be-
tween five and six hundred acres in, and grow-
ing nicely. If planted now it has the advantage
of ripening before the weather gets too warm
for harvesters, and besides it does not need so
much irrigation; then also there will be time
for other crops when the wheat is harvested.
There are quite a number of orchards and vine-
yards started which are doing well; this place
seems specially adapted to vineculture. We had
several hundred pounds of grapes last year as
did others.
	Kind regards to all enquiring friends.
								FRANCELLE.


A BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	Tuesday, Dec. 28, 1880, a few of the members
of the Relief Society of East Bountiful met at
the house of President E. Barlow, it being the
69th anniversary of the birth of our beloved
sister and President. The sisters brought with
them picnic and presents. The afternoon passed
off agreeably; a few remarks were made, bear-
ing testimony to her faithfulness in her official
capacity, and usefulness in the Relief Society,
always using her influence for good, and ever
faithful in discharging her duties. After wish-


ing her many happy returns of the day, and
every blessing that her heart might desire, the
company retired at an early hour.
East Bountiful.	M. J. C.


134	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DRESS.

	Dress is a subject that occupies no small
amount of the time and means of many people;
indeed, instead of eating and dressing to live, it
seems as though they lived to eat, dress and ap-
pear well in the estimation of their friends and
neighbors. We do not like to see people penu-
rious in either of these respects; on the contrary
we think to "live well," as it is generally termed,
to dress comfortably and tastefully, and to own
a suitably large, well lighted, commodious and
attractive residence, well situated, is essential
to and almost the foundation of our happiness;
while, on the other hand, poverty, wretchedness
and often disease are easily traced in a small,
cold, damp, uninviting abode.
	There are those in comfortable circumstances
that were a little more time and taste expended
it would amply repay; while any sensible mind
would condemn the extravagance of some of
our wealthier class, to say nothing of Queen
Elizabeth, who is said to have left three thou-
sand different habits in her wardrobe.
	We think that climate is the "general regula-
tor" of dress, together with the different na-
tional customs. In some warm countries sandals
take the place of s[-]oes, and in eastern countries
flowing garments take the place of the more
closely fitting of those lying west, while the Es-
quimaux and those inhabiting intensely cold cli-
mates are mostly dressed in fur. A Russian
grouped among other Europeans can generally
be easily pointed out, also the Scotchman with
his kilt of plaid. The attire of the peasantry
in many European nations is picturesque and
very gaudy, while that of the rich is fine and
costly.
	The first dress that we have any account of
was that worn by Adam and Eve; the Bible
tells us that they made themselves aprons of fig
leaves, and that afterwards God made them
coats of the skins of beasts. The New Testa-
ment informs us that Christ dressed like a Naza-
rene. 
	Jewelry has, since the time that Abraham's 
servant gave an earring and two bracelets to Re-
becca up to the present, in all ages and countries,
occupied a prominent place in the attire of both
sex.
	Livingstone informs us that fashion is fashion,
and there is no disputing on that subject, that
there may be a fashion of going undressed or
dressed—the former is the fashion in some parts
of Africa, and some of the men wear aprons of
beautifully tanned skins; and both the men and
women of Belonda thought themselves splen-
didly attired if they could get a few feet of bright
cloth to wrap about the neck or body.
	The taste of dress in our own day among our-
selves is rather unaccountable, even though the
fashions do come from Paris. We have often
dressed ridiculously, that style has become un-
fashionable, odd, uncomfortable and odious, just
on account of a later one being introduced,
while before it was "perfectly lovely." Then, in
about seven years the old style comes up as
"lovely" as ever, while the others in their turn
are frowned on.
	But God has given us a rule in the Doctrine and
Covenants which should guide us. He says;
"And again thou shalt not be proud in thy heart,
let all thy garments be plain, and their beauty
the beauty of the work of thine own hands, and
let all things be done in cleanliness before me."
Though these instructions were given (for our
benefit) to Joseph Smith, some years ago, com-
mon sense tells us that they still hold good, and
though in following them we may not always
follow the fashion, if we obey God's other in-
structions we may be followers of Christ, and
sit down to the Marriage Supper of the Lamb,
having on a wedding garment.
	ANN FELLOWS.


GILDED MISERY.

	The following item from the letter of a fash-
ionable lady in one of the largest Eastern cities,
to a friend here, will explain how the "down-
trodden women" of Utah compare with their
fellow sisters in the world. This lady once re-
sided in Utah for three years:	*	*	"My
life is resting under a cloud. Mr.—went to"
(mentioning a city in Colorado), "as he did to


Utah. Not feeling satisfied with the appearance
of things I went to———unexpected by him. I
found him living with a woman who had passed
herself off as his wife; I remained two days
at the same hotel. Hence, I am now here alone
with my parents and a few kind friends, who
cling to me. What the future has in store for
me is known only to God, and in patience I must
wait. Oh, the vile condition of society in the
world that sets itself up as a judge of your peo-
ple! There is far less misery and heart agony in
Utah, than in the so-called refined circles of the
fashionable and religious world. Gilded misery
can be found in harvests, while love hardly
dares claim a place.	*	*	*	But life in Utah
is pure and good, and happiness abounds as fully
as I have ever found it in my varied experience."
	January, 1881.


[Column 1]
R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.

	Relief Society of Mesa, Arizona, organized
March, 1880. Sarah Phelps, President; Eliza-
beth and Sarah M. Pomeroy, Counselors; Fran-
celle Robson, Secretary; Fannie Macdonald,
Treasurer. Have held meetings monthly; a good
spirit generally prevails. Have a city lot ar-
ranged for, and are going to build as soon as pos-
sible.
		Yours truly.
				FRANCELLE P. ROBSON.

	We have about twenty-five families here in
our little settlement of Pleasant Green, Brighton
Ward, and we are trying to live up to our duties,
to the best of our knowledge. Our Relief So-
ciety was organized March 9, 1879, with Sister
Charlotte Hirst, President; Ann Bertoch and
Francis Hardman, Counselors. The death of
our dear president left our society disorganized.
It was re-organized August, 1880, with Sister
Alvira S. Hirst, President, Ann Bertoch and
Nancy Dearden, Counselors. From our first or-
ganization up to the present time we have do-
nated to the temple $10; emigration, $9.50; to
the poor, $3.75; for books $1.90. We have on
hand at present, cash, $7; property, $20. Our
society does not own any grain, but we expect
to in the future. We celebrated Joseph Smith's
birthday by getting up a party for the benefit of
the schoolhouse, to get some new benches.
			ALVIRA S. HIRST, President.
			FANNY JENKINS, Secretary.
			ALICE COCKRILL, Ass't Secretary.

	EDITOR EXPONENT:—The sisters of Rich-
mond are striving to do their part in the great
work that is laid out for them as handmaidens
of the Most High, ever willing and ready to im-
part to the needy, comfort the distressed. At
the present time there are but few who are not
able to help themselves. The Lord has blessed
us with a good harvest, there is no sickness of
any moment, for which we strive to be thank-
ful. Your paper is ever a welcome visitor among
us. Please accept our kind regards, in which
our president truly joins.
	Your sisters in the Gospel.
				A. M. MERRILL, Pres't.
				B. BROWER, Sec'y.

	Dear Sister: It is with pleasure I write to in-
form you of the organization of a Relief Society
in the Riverton Branch of the South Jordan
Ward with the following officers: Jane Silcock,
President; Sarah J. Howard, first Counselor,
Caroline Hansen, second Counselor: and Hen-
rietta Bills Sec'y. Sarah Kidd, Treasurer.
			Respectfully,
						JANE SILCOCK.
	RIVERTON, DEC. 17, 1880.

KANAB.

	The Annual Conference of the Belief Socie-
ties, of the Kanab Stake of Zion, was held at
Orderville Dec. 9, 1880. Counselor Harriet
Bunting presiding. Metting opened by sing-
ing "Sweet is the Work" and prayer by Pres't.
Lousia Spencer, sang "O awake my slumbering
minstrel."
	Minutes of previous Conference and statis-
tical and financial reports read and accepted

[Column 2]
There was a good verbal report given by the
Presidents of the different wards. Coun.
Bunting said, she was thankful for the privil-
ege of again, meeting with the sisters in the
capacity of a Conference,considered it a privil-
ege to have Pres't. Nuttall visit us, was glad
he was so well pleased, with the labors of the
sisters in the different Wards. Sister Bunting
wished the sistars to make a special effort, to
obtain means to help gather the poor Saints.
Urged upon the sisters the necesity of puncual-
ity in attending meeting. Hoped that we all
would take the counsel of Brother and Sister
Nuttall, to be united and of one heart, in our
labors. Made other excellent remarks.
	Prest. H. O. Spencer said, he was desirious
of sustaining the societies in every good thing.
He also wished the sisters to sustain home
manufacture, it is a part of our great mission,
to do this, that we may sustain ourselves tem-
porally.
	Prest. J. L. Bunting felt great pleasure in
meeting with the sisters, thought that a com-
pliment was due them for the many efforts they
had made. Opposition we must expect in this
world, but we must meet it as becoming
Saints. Once we had not the organizations,
that we have at the present time, consequently
we could not do then as we can now.
	Why are the Saints required to perform the
labors of making quilts, hats &c., and of
gathering wheat? That they may be economical
and a saving of the means of existence; that
we may be independent of the outside world.
It appears that the brethren to a certain
extent, have failed in many things, and the
sisters have been called upon to assist the
brethren, and they have made many praise-
worthy efforts. Urged the sisters to pray in
their families, in the absence of their husbands;
also to do what they could to help gather the
poor Saints.
	Elders, Chamberlain, Robinson, Pugh and
Rider, gave some good counsel to the sisters.
Sang "Let Zion in her beauty rise." Dismised
by Elder J. R. Jound.
	STATISTICAL Reports.—Teachers, 68; meet-
ings held 297; average attendance 50.
	FINANCIAL:—On hand last report $265,04;
receipts, $151,25; disbursements, $137,52; In
treasury. $27,97.
	We hoped to have the pleasure of a visit
from Sisters E. R. S. Smith and Zina D. Young,
while on their visit South, but were very much
disappointed. Wishing yourself and all the
sisters a happy and a prosperous New Year. I
remain your sister in the Gospel.
	M. ELIZABETH LITTLE, Stake Sec'y.


GEORGE ELLIOT'S INFLUENCE.

SELECTED.

	The death of George Eliot will come with
a sense of personal loss to a large body of
readers in all parts of the world. The woman
was intensely English, but her genius was of
no country. She stood far above all rivals of
her own sex, and was foremost among the small
band of novelists whom the latter half of the
century has produced. Her nom de plume
was typical of her character. She had a woman's
keen intuitions joined to a masculine power of
analysis and strength of reasoning. Above
all, she had that superb imagination which is
given only to one or two writers in a century,
and that power of incarnating ethical truths
which none of her contemporaries possessed in
equal measure. She lived a laborious life,
frequently working with so great intensity as
to injure her health. She has left a noble in-
heritance to coming generations of readers.
	Her genius gathered about her a circle of
admirers, but society did not look kindly upon
her. CHARLOTTE BRONTE has depicted the


loneliness of a woman "hearing the nations
praising her from afar," while her own heart
is hungry for the homely love and affection of
the fire-side. The marriage of the author, of
"Jane Eyre" was almost as singular as the
latest union of George Eliot. When her first
youth was gone she espoused a country curate,
whose only claim to consideration was his de-
votion to her. Many of George Eliot’s ad-
mirers professed to be greatly grieved at her
action in marrying so soon after the death of
GEORGE HENRY LEWES. She might have
replied to these critics, as NAPOLEON did to
the remonstrances of the jealous JOSEPINE,
that she was not to be judged by the same
rules as ordinary women. The great Emperor
expressed in his terse phrase the truth, that
genius is a law unto itself in directing that ex-
uberant energy which is at once its curse and
its blessing. George Eliot was kept from vio-
lating morality as she did conventional laws,
by her English blood and training. Born and
bred in France she would, no doubt, have re-
peated in her life the career of George Sand.
This "large-brained woman and large-hearted
man," who gave so great an impulse to French
literature, lived what we would call a very
immoral life until the fire of her passions was
quenched with years. But there is no question
that she strove to be a reformer to the best of
her light—as earnestly as ANNA DICKINSON
does in our day.
	George Eliot, in her own way, has done much
to influence English character. To the world-
wide audience of readers of her novels she has
preached the sermon of self-restraint, high en-
deavor, and obedience to that moral law that
speaks to every man and woman in accents
that cannot fail to be understood. She shows
the consequences of its violation in "Adam
Bede" and "Romola"—the two novels that will
live longest in popular regard. In her other
works she has meted out justice with unsparing
hand, smiting the weak-willed and those strick-
en with moral paralysis. But it is only in a
single short poem that she sums up her creed.
In that hymn, "O may I join the Choir Invis-
ible," she rests her faith, not alone on the hope of
immortality, but on the power of genius to live
through from age to age, upholding and
strengthening sorely tempted and struggling
souls. This one poem embodies the hopes and
aspirations of a large sect of English rational-
ists. They have no faith in the God or the im-
mortality of the Christian religion. They believe
only in the life and the possibilities of living
hereafter, by virtue of the work done here, as
SHAKESPERE and MILTON live to-day among
English-speaking people in all parts of the
globe. This faith she expresses in these grand
opening lines:

	O, may I join the choir invisible
Of those immortal dead who live again
In minds made better by their presence; live
In pulses stirred to generosity,
In deeds of daring rectitude, in scorn
For miserable alms that end in self—
In thoughts sublime that pierce the night like stars,
And, with their mild persistence urge man'lfs search
To vaster issues.
					So to live is heaven;
To make undying music in the world.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


[Column 1]
ITEMS FROM NAZARETH.

* * * * At this moment we
are having a very striking reminder of the
expression in Jeremiah—“The voice of the
bridegroom, and the voice of the bride"—which
says nothing to us Westerners because our
brides and bridegrooms do not lift up their 
voices. A little while ago, 4 p. m., I heard a
sound as of a distant multitude shouting and
singing. I looked out and saw coming over
the brow of one of the hills on the other side
of the town, a gay procession, hundreds of peo-

[Column 2]
ple singing, shouting, firing guns, &c. They
were bringing a bride from one of the outside
villages. With Mrs. Gilbert's glass we could
distinguish many camels gaily decked with
carpets, rugs and scarlet cloth, and Miss Tan-
ner told us that the bride's trousseau is also
displayed on these camels. The bride rides on
a horse—very probably for the first time in
her life—and is taken to the house of a friend,
the people all chanting, as they pass slowly on,
verses in praise of her beauty and perfections,
that remind one of the songs of Solomon.
	When the bride was safely housed, we heard
in another direction the procession of the
bridegroom, who was being taken to the house
of one of his friends, where he will be feted
and congratulated, and have verses sung in his 
praise also. The friends of the bride are in 
the meantime weeping and condoling with her,
as well they may, for though the affair as seen
from the outside looks very Biblical, she is in-
deed to be pitied, for women are kept in such
a degraded condition here, it fills one with in-
dignation. Eastern brides generally get a
sound thrashing from their husbands as an in-
troduction into married life, "just to make
them know their place." To-night there will
be a grand torchlight procession, more firing 
of guns, chanting, etc., etc., and every day un-
til Sunday, when the marriage will be cele-
brated at church or mosque, according as the
bridegroom is Moslem or Christian, and all
will be finished up by the grandest torchlight
procession, when the bride is taken to her 
tyrant's home.
	Sunday. I little knew that the wind up of
the wedding was going to be a fearful riot, but
so it was, and we had truly a bad time of it,
coming home from Church with our sixty
panic-stricken children. We were about three
hundred yards from the church when there
was a block and a panic, and we heard that
there was a serious riot going on between the
Greeks and the Latins in the street. The C.
M. S. school was the nearest place of refuge,
and we were most thankful when we had
placed our sixty children inside; they were all
in a state of the utmost panic, big and little,
and just babies. There was no getting them
to understand a word, and we had just to drag
and push them just where we wanted them to
go. The stones, which are still the missiles of
this country, always handy and always abun-
dant, we could see flying thickly about the low
flat houses, and we heard of many being se-
riously wounded. Then it seems the party
who were getting the worst of it, rushed up the
hill above the house, the pursuers following;
and as night was falling, it was considered ad-
visable for us to try and gain our home before
the rioters returned into the town. That was
a bad time for us, for having so many little
ones with us, we could not climb the hill very
fast, and there were big stones, larger than I
could lift, lying thickly in the path, where the
worst of the fray had been. All the way there
was the fear that we meet the rest of the rab-
ble returning before we gained the shelter of
our home. We could see figures rampaging 
about our land, and thought: "Oh, if only we
had a wall built!" Yakoob was on the lookout
for us in a great state of anxiety, and at last
we all got inside the gates, and could breathe
again. Then we went up on the roof to see
how matters were going, and we could hear the
shouts and shrieks, but the combatants were
just over the brow of the hill, and all we could
see were the stragglers, whose figures stood out
clearly all along the ridge, against the sunset 
sky. Such a glorious sunset it was, and to
think of what was going on under it, on that
very hill where we are sure Jesus of Nazareth
spent many an hour of quiet communion with
His Father, and that He was looking down on
these Christians! raging like demons over those
spots which they profess to hold sacred for His

[Column 3]
sake. Night comes on very suddenly here,
and as the noise on the hill died away with the
dying light, we can only suppose that the dif-
ferent parties returned to their homes under
cover of the darkness, and must wait till to-
morrow to know what it was about. * *
	Monday. This, it appears, was the upshot
of the riot: It seems the Governor of Naza-
reth went out to quell the riot, but the Latins
were too bold for him; they took his karboosch
(fez cap) and broke his head, and then he took
refuge in the house of a Greek. This morning
he sent his soldiers to bring up the offenders,
and received the answer: "We are not at lei-
sure, we are drinking today." And so the
thing ends. Every one knows of course that
he has been bribed heavily; the Latins are rich
and powerful, and they have a fiery little fel-
low, Fra Giuseppe, who never allows any one
of their persuasion to be punished. If a Latin
has committed murder even, and flies to the
convent for sanctuary, Fra Giuseppe is certain
to get him off. I have just heard of a sad
proof that we can reckon but little on the sta-
bility of our converts here. A woman who
has professed Christianity for years has now
gone back to Moslemism, because Mr. Huber
did not give her a dress at Christmas. I am
sorry to acknowledge that here as elsewhere;
"the loaves and fishes" too often influence a
person's religious opinions.	TEACHER.


﻿ALLEGORY.

	The clock had passed the stroke of the
eleventh hour of the last day of 1880. A
slowly burning fire, that ever and anon flick-
ered with a pale, tremulous glow—now light-
ing the room, then sinking low, till naught
but lurid shadows filled the place—was burn-
ing on the hearth. Dreamily my mind went
back through light and darkness to every
place the past year had borne me, in its arms
of power irresistible. A personage was with
me now—a pale, wan figure, with the mark of
death set deep upon his brow. It was the old
year. He approached me with extended hand:
"Farewell," he said, "I soon must go; I pray,
you that when I am gone you will think of
me kindly." I shrank from him, refused his
hand, and sternly I replied: "Think of you
kindly? No. Why should one throb of ten-
derness e’er move my heart toward one who,
when he first crossed my threshold, was laden
with care, sickness and disappointment, and
bound the burden on my weary soul. Yet
more, my house was filled with those my eyes
so dearly loved to look upon; yon have re-
moved nearly all of these far from me; you
have robbed us of our home, and now you seek
to part with me in friendship! Get you gone!
Away with you, I say! let oblivion cover all
your evil ways.
	"Sister," said a soft and mellow voice, "for-
give." In an instant 1880 passed like a shadow
from my sight. One now stood near me who
had been hidden by the figure, which was gone
like vapor from the room. This last one came
with firm, elastic step, his eye was full of ten-
derness and truth, his brow, though clothed
with power, was softened by the beams of mercy
and forgiveness. He took my hand with pity-
ing look, and all at once the hardness of my
heart was gone—I only felt good will and
peace toward all mankind. He spoke again:
"I am your coming year; I am 1881, and I
command all men, by word from heaven, that
at every coming year they do forgive the past.
I have been everywhere evil spoken against,
yet not by you nor yours. In me you all have
hope. In me you can trust, if you will well
and truly act as I shall you instruct. Hold in
your heart sacred the sensations of kindness
and sympathy for Adam’s fallen race; a for-
giving spirit toward those who err, as now you


are  moved  upon  by  me  to  do.  Love  your
neighbor  as  yourself, and  the  most holy com-
mandments  well  and  truly keep, you will  not
part  with  me  as  with  my  predecessor;   for
among all  my tenderest  cares will I remember
you  and  your  loved ones,  all  who were spared
by 1880, and given to me in trust.   Then  when
all the former yea[-]s shall come before the judg-
ment  seat  of  Him  who  had  appointed  them
their  times,  I  too  will   come  and  testify that
while  I  traveled  with  the  earth around upon
her  circle  in  the  heavens, thou wast true and
faithful  in  all  the  things  that  make  man
worthy, by  forgiving  to  be  forgiven, and hav-
ing  kept  the  law  of  God, so  far  as  I can  be
your witness, art  entitled  to  partake with  the
just of the leaves of the tree of life eternal.
	M. J. C.


136	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
JESSE BURNS,
OR,
WAS IT FATE?

A Sketch of the Exodus from Nauvoo, and the
early Settlement of Utah.

CONTINUED.

	All that long summer the gold fever in-
creased, and a tide of humanity went surging
past, making Salt Lake their resting place, and
the little oasis in the desert became a business
centre and a place of rest. The miners came
with wagons, but, owing to the nature of the
mountain country, thought it expedient to
finish their journey with pack animals. This
gave employment to many of the citizens in fit-
ting up saddles and the necessary outfit for
packing. Their jaded animals were exchanged
for fresh ones, their wagons together with all
sorts of farming utentsils, machinery, stoves,
trunks and clothing of all sorts,were exchanged
with the citizens or sold at a mere nominal
price. It was a God-send to the poor, destitute
inhabitants, affording them implements to
work with, and even provisions, meat, flour,
cheese, crackers, fruit and groceries, were sold
of given in large quantities to the settlers, who
gave thanks to God for all his mercies and
went to work with renewed faith and courage.
Jesse had left his business in charge of his
partner, who was a good, honest man in his
way, but of no business capability. The saw-
mill was good property,and lumber in demand,
but he only managed to make a scanty living
for his own family and very little for Mary.
Jesse's friend, John Somers, had promised him
before he went, that while he had anything
Mary should not suffer. He went to Green
River in company with others to ferry over the
emigrants receiving in payment, many things
for the comfort of his family. He brought
Mary a small cooking stove which she prized
highly, as she had thought never to own such
an article again when she left her home.
	That fall some men came in from California
bringing news of the absent ones,for there were
no mails in those days. Jesse sent Mary
four hundred dollars in gold, to be divided
with his partner, according to contract. He
had arrived at his destination after many hard-
ships, and after resting awhile from his fatigue,
had found work at his trade as boss carpenter,
at good wages and sent the proceeds to his
family. To Minnie it seemed like a fairy tale
to see so much gold and she expected her father
would soon come home with so much that they
could have everything they wanted. Poor
child, she hardly realized what all they wanted
might mean; she knew little of the require-
ments of life,nor how one want supplied makes
way for another. Blessed are the humble poor,
so long as want and starvation does not assail
them, their homes are happier and more free
from care than the mansions of the rich. Her

[Column 2]
mind was full of anticipations, everything
would be bright and happy when her father
came. She did not care much if he would
only come, she always had everything as others
had, so far as she saw, he had always provided,
and why should he not always do so. It would
be so bright and happy if he was only at home
she did not care for the gold if father would
only come. Childish logic certainly but how
much better for all if Jesse could have
seen it in the same light; how many slow tor-
turing years might have been spared them,
what sorrow and care and desolation: but the
excitement was strong and gold seemed the
surest way to happiness.
	To Mary it meant comforts for herself, and
rest for Jesse. He had always worked hard,he
would be an old man after awhile, and it would
be nice to have a good home and comforts for
their old age, and gold might bring them even
there,for were they not promised that the wil-
derness should blossom as the rose; that Zion
should be established in the tops of the moun-
tains; and peace and plenty should reign in their
midst. There were many hardships in settling
a new country, especialy one so isolated from
navigation, where all means for improvement
had to be imported so many miles in ox-teams.
The farming required so much labor on ac-
count of irrigation, and all the wood and
lumber had to be hauled from those dreadful
canons at the risk of life and limbs, and many
a good man was killed or crippled while labor-
ing on the mountains. They had come to set-
tle in peace where they could rest secure from
their enemies. They had been robbed, and
plundered, and driven, but they had come so
far away that no one would care to molest
them, the country was such a barren desert,
that no one would wish to wrest it from them.
Here at least, they would find rest, they would
build cities, rear temples, and improve the
country, worshiping God according to his re-
vealed will without fear or molestation. It was
said, "seek first the kingdom of God and his
righteousness, and all else shall be added."
They had left father, mother, home and friends
for Christ's sake, and if they were faithful to
their covenants, and true to themselves and to
God, He would bless them in all their under-
stakings.
			To be Continued.


[Column 1]
[Sketch of boy harvesting some type of crop with the words
"WARNER'S", "SAFE", "KIDNEY & LIVER", "CURE" written on the sketch]

	Is made from a Simple  Tropical  Leaf  of  Rare value, and
is a POSITIVE Remedy for all the  diseases  that cause
pains in the lower part of the body—for Torpid Liver—Head-
ache—Jaundice—Dizziness, Gravel,Malaria, and all difficult-
ies of  the  Kidneys, Liver,  and  Urinary  Organs.  For  Fe-
male Diseases, it  has  no  equal.   It  restores the organs
that make the blood,and hence is the best Blood Purifier.
It  is  the only known  remedy that  cures Bright's Dis-
ease.  For Diabetes,use Warner's Safe Diabetes Cure,
	For Sale by Druggists  and  Dealers  at  $1,25  per bottle.
Largest bottle in the market.  Try it.
	H. H. WARNER & CO., Rochester, N. Y.

[Column 2]
	CLASS  IN  MIDWIFERY.
DR.  ROUMWNIA  B.  PRATT  WILL BEGIN  A  NEW
class in Midwifery, in her office, up stairs, Old Constitu-
tion Building,  March 1st, 1881.  Students  should send  their
names in time for books to be procured.
	TERMS ,  830.	BOOKS,  812.

	DR.  ELLIS  R.  SHIPP.
	PHYSICIAN  AND  SURGEON.
	OFFICE in Bishop  Hunter's old residence, between Z.  C.M
I. and the National Bank.
	RESIDENCE 11th Ward, 7th East Street, between South and
1st South S[-]reets, west side of street.
	Obstetrics and Diseases of Women and Children as special-
ities.

	THE  LADIES
Of Salt Lake  City and vicinity will find  the  LARGEST and
	BEST  SELECTED  STOCK of
BOOTS,  SHOES   &  SLIPPERS,
	Also, full and desirable lines, best brands
Children's  Fine  Shoes,
obe found in the West.	Your Orders are Solicited.
	GEO.  DUNFORD.

	F.  AUERBACH  &  BRO.
	HAVE
REMOVED TO THEIR NEW STORE, Nos.  124  &  126
	CALL  AND  EXAMINE
	Fall  and  Winter  Goods.

	DAVID  JAMES,
TINNER, GAS, WATER & STEAM FITTER.

	Agent for  RUMSEY'S celebrated  LIFT and  FORCE
PUMPS.  Pumps Repaired  on  short notice.   Orders from
the country promptly responded to.
	Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

	Z. C. M. I.
WHOLESALE  AND  RETAIL  DEALERS  IN
DRY  GOODS,  NOTIONS,  GROCERIES,
HEAVY  &  SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS  &  QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL  IMPLEMENTS,  ETC.

	AT  TEASDEL'S
	SALT  LAKE  CITY.
	Special Departments for  Gent's  Clothing  and
Carpets,   Ladies'   and   Children's  Shoes,  Dry
Goods,  Shawls  and  Domestics,  Groceries,  Hard-
ware and Stoves.
DRIED FRUITS OF ALL CLASSES WANTED.
	S. P.  TEASDEL.

	A LARGE STOCK
	Of Home  Made  Trunks  for  Sale  by  JOHN  C.
CUTLER, Agent for the PROVO WOOLEN MILLS, Old
Constitution Building; also HOME MADE
Blankets,	Brown Yarns,	Cotton Batting,
Flannels,	White Yarns,	Wool Batting,
Shawls,	Colored Yarns,	Brooms,
Linseys,	Cassimers,	Washboards,
Jeans,	Tweeds,	Brushes, Etc., Etc.

	H.  DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND  RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE,
SPRING  BEDS,  WIRE  MATTRESSES,  FEATHERS,  WALL  PAPER
AND 
BABY  CARRIAGES,
75,  77,  &  79,  First   South  Street,
SALT  LAKE  CITY.

DR.   A.   B.  DUNFORD,
DENTIST.
SPECIAL  ATTENTION  PAID
to Filling and Preserving the
Natural  teeth. Teeth  Carefully
Extracted.  FALSE T[--]TH inserted
from one tooth to a Full Set, in the 
Most Approved Manner.  PRICES
to Suit the Times and First Class
Work Guaranteed.
OFFICE:—MAIN ST.   OPPOSITE  SALT  LAKE  HOUSE.
P.  O. BOX, 541,


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

