		COURAGE FOR WOMEN.

	It is absurd for any person to assert they have
no influence, and that it is of no consequence
to the world what character they sustain, or
what course they pursue as an individual; that
others do not look to them, and they are not
responsible for any good or evil that may trans-
pire. 
	It is impossible to ignore the effects of the
bearing of individual character and life upon
society. Many instances are known, where
the sinful practice of one person has so diffused
itself as to cause many to suffer the effects of
that sin. And on the contrary, good is also
dispensed to those who partake its influe[-]ce
	If there were more brave men and women,
who would not suffer themselves to be dis-
heartened, but would cultivate that strength
of character and nobility of purpose to rise su-
perior to all obstacles in their pathway of life,
then, indeed, from their powerful influence and
practise, we might look for reform; for a better
and purer state of civil society. Courage and
endurance are necessary. Every person should
possess a vast amount of fortitude; it is as es-
sential to woman, in the nineteenth century,
as for the leader of an army. Are they not
striving to battle with CUSTOM, the tyrant who
rules with a rod of iron, and whose sway has
been so even and uninterrupted that it will re-
quire not only time, but a union of strength to
break the formidable rod to which the genera-
tions of the past have yielded willing obedi-
ence?
	In this, the dawning of the grand Centen-
nial year of America, there should be a free-
dom of right unrestrained, which should per-
meate every true man and woman. How glo-
rious would be the Record of America, if in
this year, she would accord to woman equal
with her brother, the privileges guaranteed by
the impartial framing of the laws of the CON-
STITUTION.
	Woman is held responsible for the character
of her offspring, and for many of the evils
which prevail in socie[-]y, yet she is not al-
lowed any voice or influence in remedying these

[Column 2]
flagrant evils, unless she can exert it through
the powers of [-]ascination of character, or con-
versation.
	To be sure, woman m[-]y, and does. accom-
plish much by personal influence and purity
of character, in her home and among her asso-
ciates, yet there is so much evil that is coun-
tenanced in society, in circles large and small,
that she must wage a perpetual warfare if she
would maintain pure principles and promote
good.
	How many wives and mothers there are
without any sympathy, save such as their suffer-
ing sisters can accord, and yet they must not be
allowed the privilege allotted to the meanest
and most debased of the other sex, in making
and sustaining the laws under which they
live.
	There are thousands of married women in
the United States, who would be much better
off if they had no husb[-]nd; a source of contin-
ual annoyance, dragging them down by their
vileness and intemperance; yet they are com-
pelled to support this miserable existence, or
perhaps involve themselves in greater difficul-
ties. The general exclamation is—these women
are to be pitied; but of what use is pity that
reaches no farther, that extends no real help,
that opens no way of escape?
	Woman has been the sufferer from this ter-
rible and crying evil INTEMPERANCE, and she
ought to have the privilege of using some great
er influence towards suppressing it than can
ever be accomplished through fireside instruc-
tion, home education, the lecture room or the
pen. Take courage, woman, your time ap-
proaches. Trust in God, who heareth the [-]ries
of His daughters and who will assuredly ans-
wer prayer.
	The dawning of a brighter day approaches
and already some tok[-]ns appear, some faint
glimmering of the light, that will herald in the
morning of liberty, freedom, and equal privi-
leges to man and woman, to brother and sister,
to universal humanity.


SEVERAL VALUABLE communications are
laid over until next issue for want of space,
also items of Home Affairs worthy of note.


