		BOSTON.

	Governor P——, though a most excellent
man, who administered the affairs of his
State successfully for two years, was consid-
erably given to making himself agreeable,
especially to politicians in rank above his
own. The Governor had been attending a 
college Commencement last season, where
he had received all the honors due to a Gov-
ernor, and he felt decidedly pleased with
himself, and disposed to be facetious. There
were two doctors of divinity and several
alumni in the Governor's company. The
two D. D.'s were very agreeable, and made
it a point of laughing at all the Governor's
sallies, as many people think they are
bound to do toward people of rank.
	The Governor and party were just aboard
of the train for home. The morning was a
hot one, and the cars were full. When the
Governor and party were seated, the seats
on the shady side of the car were all taken
except one, and on this was a valise—rather
seedy-looking, like what a farmer might
carry-which, according to the rules of
railway travel, claimed the seat for its own-
er. Just before the train started, a lady
came in, showily dressed, evidently of the
"flashy" stamp, and blustered about consid-
erably because she must sit in the sun.
The Governor is a very gallant man, and
takes much pride in his favor with ladies.
He got up, and crossing over to the lady,
said, "Madame, why do you not sit in this
seat? It must be very uncomfortable to sit
in the sun."
	The lady replied that she saw by the va-
lise that the seat was taken.

[Column 2]
	"But," said the Governor, as he took the
valise by the handles, "it won't hurt the gen-
tleman's valise to sit in the sun." Then hold-
ing it up in sight of all, and with a signifi-
cant smile added, "and we hardly think it
would hurt the gentleman himself."
	The lady took the seat thus vacated, and
the Governor put the valise into a seat on 
the sunny side of the car. The two D. D.'s
thought it was the best thing they ever
heard—the Governor's joke, "It won't hurt
the gentleman's valise to sit in the sun,
and we hardly think it would hurt the gen-
tleman himself;" and they nudged each
other and pretended to laugh very heartily.
Of course the Governor was pleased: it is
always pleasant to know that our own wit
is appreciated.
	But it happened that the valise belonged
to a gentleman who held a responsible posi-
tion in Washington, also a graduate of the
collage, who had been home to Commence-
ment. He was a tall, noble specimen of
humanity, as noble as he looked, who would
never play the sycophant to a king, nor im-
pose upon a beggar. He was only a few
seats ahead, where he had stepped to speak
with a friend, and he had heard every word
of the Governor's joke. Soon he came
back, glanced at the seat which held the
lady and her baggage, when some one point-
ed across, and he quietly took the seat with
his valise.
	The Governor saw at once that he was a
gentleman, and knew that he must have
overheard his remarks, but he was a stran-
ger to his Excellency. The gentleman, how-
ever, knew the physiognomy of the Gover-
nor very well, though he was not personally
acquainted. The Governor learned forward
and asked of a gentleman,
	"Do you know who that gentleman is?"
	"That is the Hon. J—— D——, from
Washington, Commissioner of	—."
	Evidently the Governor had heard too
much. He dropped his chin, and his face
looked blank. The two doctors of divinity
also saw that their laugh had not been well
put: they had played the sycophant on the
wrong man. The Governor saw his posi-
tion, and thought the best thing for him to
do was to make an apology. So he asked a
college friend for an introduction. The
gentleman arose, and Governor P—— was 
formally introduced to Commissioner D——.
After the usual hand-shaking was over, the 
Governor said,
	"Commissioner D——, I owe you a hum-
ble apology for removing your valise, and
my unguarded remarks. I hope—"
	Commissioner D——, broke him off short,
and replied:
	"Governor, no apology is needed, nor
will any be accepted. I always yield my
seat to ladies, and my valise to hackmen;
but among gentlemen I prefer to handle my
own baggage."—Harper's Magazine.


AN English lady was declaiming against
"the stupidity of the foreigners" at a
Parisian Hotel. "My dear," said the hus-
band reprovingly, "you forget that we are
foreigners." "What nonesense Edward!"
replied the wife, "of course they are for-
eigners because we're English.


HELLOA, Pat! "Whats the matter? Is
there any one ill here?” said a gentleman
to an Irish laborer, who was engaged in lay-
ing tan in front of Fishmongers' Hall, London.
"No, sir," replied Pat, "there's nobody ill
just now, but there'll soon be a few fit pa-
tients for the hospital. There's to be a
moighty fine dinner here this evening."


