NOTES AND NEWS.

	MISS MARY E. Wager, for a long time
one of the editors of the Rural New York-
er, and a well known and popular corres-
pondent of several leading journals, was
married lately to Prof. Willian B. Fisher,
of Dickinson College, Pa.
	THE SCHOOL of Design in San Francisco,
of which Mr. Virgil Williams is Professor,
recently gave an exhibition. The first
prize, the Avery gold medal for the best oil
painting, was awarded to Miss Susie Du-
gan, daughter of Mr. T. H. Dugan, formerly
of Boston.
	DR. MARY E. Walker lectured in San
Francisco, Jan. 19th, to gentlemen, the ex-
periment proved that a lady may talk to
gentlemen and meet with perfect civility,
and the large and intelligent audience who
gathered to hear the Doctor's remarks not
only listened attentively but at intervals
warmly applauded them.
	SOME OF the Cincinnati ladies propose to
take a whole room in the new Centennial
building, and to inlay the floor with tiles of
their own painting, and to fresco the walls
themselves. The Hartford ladies propose
that some of their number shall take les-
sons in painting and frescoing in order 'to
follow their example.
	FRANCIS P. Blair, former editor of the
Globe is living near Washington-  He is
eighty-five years of age, and in feeble
health. He speaks gratefully of the assist-
ance he has received from his wife while
editing the Globe. Although only two years
his junior, she still accompanies him in his
horseback rides in summer.
	AT THE Moody and Sanky Revival meet-
ing in New York, one day last week, in the
afternoon, no one was admitted but ladies,
except the male members of the choir, a
few reporters, and the usual detail of police-
men. The audience was such an one as
New York has probably never seen before.
Between 6,000 and 7,000 women were seat-
ed in one room, every grade of society be-
ing represented, and forming a congrega-
tion to be seen few times in the course of
a life.
	ILLUMINATING GAS from cork: to the list
of substances capable of furnishing gas of
good quality cork is now to be added. Re-
cent experiments made in Bordeaux, France,
have given results both economical and sat-
isfactory, and it has been definitely decided
to use the material in the lighting of the
city. Works for burning cork are now in
process of construction. The fragmen[-]s of
cork, principally waste after cutting bottle
stoppers, are distilled in a close retort. The
flame obtained is stated to be whiter and
more brilliant that that of coal gas, while
the blue zone is much smaller and the den-
sity greater.


THE party of young lady teachers who
lately left for Cape Colony, South Africa,
consisting of Misses Anna and Nellie A.
Smith, of Sunderland, Carry Ingraham, of
North Adams, and Emma Landfear, of
New Haven, have reached their destina-
tion.


