	WRITTEN FOR THE YOUNG LADIES RE-
TRENCHMENT ASSOCIATION OF THE 13th
WARD.
	In complying with our President's re-
quest, I hope the Lord will bless me with
His spirit, so what I write will be benefi-
cial to myself as well as to the rest. I
would like to say a few words about tempta-
tion. In the prayer given us for a model
by our Savior, one sentence always lays
with force on my mind. It is this: "Lead
us not into temptation:" Mark, it says par-
ticularly, "Lead us not into temptation,"
showing that sometimes we are tempted for
a righteous purpose. How can that be?
Did you ever read in the Doctrine and Cov-
enants where it tells that a certain man was
delivered over to the buffetings of Satan.
What was the cause of this? Because he
had transgressed the law. Therefore, when
we are delivered over to temptation, we are
either tried so that we may prove to angels
and men that we will stand firm, or else
we have transgressed the law. We may be
tempted while we are doing our best, but
unless we yield to it, it can do us no harm.
Of course as long as Satan roams the earth,
he will endeavor to lead us astray in every
direction, still we must learn to resist his
evil promptings. For this purpose we are
placed here; to keep our Second Estate; to
overcome the world, the flesh and the Dev-
il. And how important is our every step
here to make, or to mar our whole lives
hereafter. Some things may seem trifles
here, but their influence over our future,
can scarcely be comprehended, unless looked
at by the light of revelation. Satan will
only be bound by being shut out from the
hearts of the Saints; and it is in our gov-
erning ourselves in small things, that we
are enabled to overcome great temptations.
When the Evil One finds us invulnerable on
one point he ceases to tempt us there.
Hence when we pray to be kept from temp-
tation, we pray to keep the law in every
particular. We must strain every nerve to

[Column 2]
overcome our weaknesses. How much do
you suppose it availeth Lucifer to tempt
President Young? Very little indeed. We
should try and live so that we too should
have a coat of mail impervious to the shafts
of the enemy. In saying strain every nerve
to do right, I would like to explain how to
resist temptation in a few instances.
	Did you ever notice the different influen-
ces that surround different persons? To il-
lustrate: we, all of us, I presume, are ac-
quainted with one or more who are not Lat-
ter Day Saints. In meeting them on the
street or at our homes, are we not impelled
to talk of balls, parties, and books (gener-
ally novels) we have read? Again, when
we meet one of the "girls," does not our
conversation unconsciously turn on the light
current topics of the hour. The last sensa-
tion, the coming theatre, Mrs. John Smith's
new bonnet, and "how cruel it was of Tilda
Ann to play off on Adolphus." On the oth-
er hand when we meet some good Latter
Day Saint, do we not, unintentionally per-
haps, speak of the meeting we attended
last Sunday, and how well Bro. So and So
spoke? These, although we may not realize
it are the corresponding influences that ac-
company people. Thus we may see we
should cultivate the society of the Saints,
for, from always talking on these frivolous
subjects we make them our study, so as to
be able to talk more fluently about them,
and so eventually they come to be our every
day thoughts. This is one of the ways
Satan has of leading us out of the line of
our duty. We meet our outside friends,
and are so cordially invited to call and
see them, and they treat us so well and are
so agreeable that we go again and so on.
	Another thing I wish to touch upon, is
reading novels. I used to be in the habit
of reading a great many but since I have
been re-baptized I have quit it altogether.
I consider that it is as hurtful to the mind,
as drinking tea and coffee is to the body.
And one of the principal rules of the Unit-
ed Order is, that we will improve our time.
And I think that our time is worse than
wasted in this evil practice. It seems to
me more hurtful than visiting outside ac-
quaintances. We have all realized the dis-
satisfied, discontented feeling that immedi-
ately follows reading a novel. Very often we
neglect our duties or studies to finish them,
and sit up half the night besides; and
when we are through, we resolve we won't
read another in a hurry. Do you suppose if
this habit did us no harm it would effect us
thus? Why no! Of course not. Not only
this, but life is too real, too earnest to spend
in reading such trash.
	Perhaps you will think, "well I can do noth-
ing to-day so I will just read this one story;"
but resist the temptation, and instead select
one of our Church books, and if you presist
in your determination to let the novels alone,
this morbid craving will leave you. And in
its place will be a freedom that is indescrib-
able, and you will take a pleasure in read-
ing good solid books that you never can
while under this "novel yoke." Believe
the words of one who strove honestly and
prayerfully to break up this evil habit, and
feels that through the Spirit of God, she has
come off conqueror, and enjoys the possess-
ion of a peaceful conscience in this particu-
lar. Now girls you will have more time to
attend meetings if you read fewer novels.
Do try and let them alone and realize the
blessing from it, for there's a blessing fol-
lowing obedience to every commandment
of God. And he has commanded us through
his prophet to quit this ruinous practice.
	I would like to say a great deal more, but

[Column 3]
I am so full of thoughts myself, that I am
rather churlish of saying much to others.
But that is the way we improve I suppose,
each one exhorts the rest to keep the law,
and let us endeavor to keep it more faith-
fully at the same time ourselves.
