FORETHOUGHT.

	It is not the easiest thing in the world to look
away into the misty future, and contemplate
just where a decided course in life must lead to,
or the exact means to be employed in gaining
certain ends. Nor is such careful consideration
at all times pleasing. But easy or not, pleasing
or otherwise, this looking ahead is one of the
most important steps in the road to success;
and one too, most commonly neglected.
	These facts are not confined to any class of
individuals, or to any country; they are gener-
al; or else the world's record would show fewer
accidents and failures in all departments known
to the pursuits of human ambition.
	There are times in almost every life when
"the wheel of fortune" seems to become so
clogged that farther attempts at progress are
apparently futile. When the human heart is
so crushed and helpless beneath the weight of
trying circumstances that it feels itself the
most worthless, unenviable thing on earth. In
undergoing such an afflicting ordeal, how nec-
essary it is to be able to look ahead and calcu-
late with accuracy. Some times the best and
only thing to be done is to stand still and await
the issue. But how many there are who have
failed to acquire the self-control which would
enable them to wait calmly the progress and
development of events; or the foresight which
would be to them a covincing power, an assur-
ance that their patience would be rewarded!
	How many evils might be averted by a little
sound forethought! How many serious mis-
takes would be avoided if the perpetrators only
learned to calculate beforehand!
	What loving, but care burdened mother,
would ever tell her boy to "quit his playing in
the house and go along out of her way!" if she
calculated what might be the result? Would
she speak in any such way if she thought her
words would sink too deep into the little, ten-
der heart, leaving a scar that could never be ef-
faced? A wound, the smarting of which would
cause the child to think, "Mother does not care
where I go so I do not trouble her, and I'll go
where I like and with whom I choose and do 
as I please!" Would she ever drive her little one
from her presence for one moment if she thought
that all her love and faithfulness in after years
could not win him back and keep him by her?
No, indeed! If mothers learned to calculate
in time, no pains would be spared to establish
the most entire and steadfast confidence be-
tween their children and themselves; never
would one word be uttered that could serve in
the least degree to form a barrier, or stay the
upwelling fountain of earth's most unselfish
love.
	If a young man should well consider the fact
that in taking an occasional glass of wine he is

————————————————————

liable to be drawn on, little by little, to become
a miserable sot, would he ever touch a drop?
No, he would turn from the temptation as from
a venomous reptile! Yet there never lived an
habitual drunkard who became such in one day.
There probably never lived one who calculated
at the beginning that he would ever fall so low,
or so disgrace himself and his parentage. 
	Does a chaste and pure-minded girl ever suf-
fer herself to be lured into merely flirting— per-
haps with a man whom she knows to be a little
dishonest in some respects, but who is enter-
taining as a social companion and fascinating as
an admirer—with the expectation that he will
finally lead her to shame and ruin? Oh no!
Yet it often happens so, to girls who, a few
months earlier in life, woul have believed such
a dreadful thing impossible.
	The suicide or the murderer would, doubtless,
have shuddered at the thought of so fearful a
crime, a year or two before its perpretation.
	The Latter-day Saint who refuses to yield
obedience to the voice of the Lord in a very 
small matter, has often no thought of stepping
entirely aside and denying the Faith. But un-
less penitence follows, and forgiveness is ob-
tained for the offense, darkness is likely to in-
crease in the mind of the individual, until the 
Spirit of God is positively withdrawn.
	These, and nearly all mistakes, result from a
want of calculation, or from this important 
faculty being misapplied. The value of wise 
and careful forethought cannot be estimated.


[Column 1]
