		VOTE IN 1876

	["All governments derive their just powers from the
consent of the governed."		THOMAS JEFFERSON.]
	Women will vote, this year of grace 1876,
Not only in Wyoming Territory; but in
some one or more of the States, and will
help elect the Centennial President.
	This is a startling prediction. It is only
fair that reasons should be given for believ-
ing it will prove true.
	1. The coming Presidential election will
be more closely contested than any since
1844. The evenly balanced condition of
parties will impel politicians to leave no
stone unturned to secure success. Which-
ever party enfranchises Woman, in any
closely contested State, will make a brilliant
strategical stroke and secure its electoral
vote. The proposition has already been
made from a Democratic source to enfran-
chise intelligent women in some of the
Southern States in order to neutralize the
negro vote. It is regarded with favor by
some of the shrewdest and ablest Dem-
ocratic politicians. If one Southern State
disturbs the balance of political parties by
such a move in the interest of Democracy,
we may be sure that Republican politicians
will hasten to offset it by a similar counter
movement in favor of Republicanism.
	2. The Presidential election will probably
hinge on the vote of New York State. In-
telligent Woman Suffrage in New York
State would inure to the benefit of the Re-
publican candidate, as, in the extreme South,
it would inure to the benefit of the Demo-
cratic candidate.
	3. With the present voting population,
New York is hopelessly Democratic. Divis-
ions in the parties such as prevailed last year
cannot extend into a Presidential Campaign.
	4. It curiously happens that, through
Democratic divisions last fall, New York
has a Republican majority in both branches
of the State Legislature. The United States
Constitution provides that Presidential elec-
tors shall be chosen in such a manner as the
Legislatures of the several States may di-
rect. The New York Legislature may di-
rect that, in addition to present votes, all
women who can read and write, may vote
for Presidential electors The Governor can
not veto this, for the Federal Constitution
leaves this subject exclusively with the Leg-
islature. It is fair, however, to assume that
Gov. Tilden and the Democrats in the State
Legislature would favor rather than oppose
Woman's Enfranchisement, if they found it 
inevitable, in the hope of conciliating the
new voters. The Democratic minority
would probably urge the enfranchisement
of all women, in order to leave parties as
they are at present, while the Republicans
would insist on having an intelligence qual-
ification.	
	5. This would place New York among the
Republican States, and would bring forward
several leading Republican statesmen as
candidates, who have been rudely shoved to
the background by the apparently hopeless
political character of the State. If intelli-
gent women were allowed a vote for Presi-
dential electors New York would not im-
probably be represented on the Presiden-
tial ticket.
	6. Some of the shrewdest leading Repub-
licans in Albany, including, we are told,
Speaker J. W. Husted, of the assembly, see
these points even more clearly than we have
presented them, and favor Woman Suffrage

[Column 2]
for Presidential electors. The influence of
the Speaker would go a great way in pushing
such a measure.
	7. With intelligent Woman Suffrage
granted in any State, party leaders will be
quick to seize the idea wherever it can be
used to partisan advantage. Women will
vote first in closely contested States, and es-
pecially where the Legislature is of differ-
ent politics from the usual popular vote.
	8. Ten years ago there was vastly strong-
er feeling against Negro Suffrage than now
prevails against Woman's Enfranchisement.
But the entire Republican party wheeled
around in support of Negro Suffrage, en-
franchising the ignorant negroes of the
South "en masse," when it was seen that a
partisan advantage was to be gained by it.
The feeling against Woman Suffrage is not
nearly so strong as was that against Negro
Enfranchisement ten years ago.
	9. Thousands of intelligent Democrats
now regret that their party did not follow
the lead of Vallandigham in 1868, nomina-
ting S. B. Chase for President, on the plat-
form of Impartial Suffrage and Universal
Amnesty. Opposing Suffrage they lost
part of the negro vote which might else
have been retained; besides delaying am-
nesty for years, and making it the foot ball
for demagogues and third rate politicians
aspiring to be statesmen. Democrats will
not be apt to repeat their mistake of oppos-
ing the enfranchisement of any class of cit-
izens who are pretty sure of enfranchise-
ment within a few years at farthest. There
is this growing feeling that Woman Suffrage
is inevitable and near. The Boston Post, a
few years ago expressed a general feeling of
many politicians when it jocosely declared
in favor of Woman Suffrage because it
"meant to be on the winning side of the
next great issue." The Post will have to
hunt up and republish that article ere long.
	10. Various circumstances—notably the
Tilton-Woodhull scandal, have cast discred-
it on Woman Suffrage. But, though less
has been said on the subject, the belief in
the justice of allowing woman to vote has
steadily grown, as winter wheat sometimes
grows under a protecting snow bank. An
exciting political campaign will show that
no time has been lost during this seeming
reaction.
	11. Most intelligent men now concede the
justice and propriety of Woman's Enfran-
chisement, and only object that most wo-
men do not want to vote. But political ne-
cessities are dispelling women's indifference.
Women who own property need a vote, and
there is no argument against their having it.
In the Southern States intelligent women
would like a vote to prevent the rule of or-
ganized ignorance. In the North thousands
more want to vote to stop the evils of in-
temperance.
	12. During the past year the order of Pat-
rons of Husbandry, has familiarized one and
a half millions of men and women with the
idea of Woman as voters and as eligible to
office in the Grange Organization, and the
influence and power of this Order is con-
stantly and rapidly increasing. No evil ef-
fects have followed from the fact that wo-
men vote and are voted for in Grange meet-
ings. On the contrary it has had a refining
and harmonizing influence, and the pres-
ence of women in the Grange is universally
regarded as one of the chief causes of the
wonderful growth and success of the Order.
	13. This is the Centennial year. There
is universal expectation that something un-
usual is to happen; but nobody can guess
what is coming. This expectation of some-
thing unusual has in all history invariably
insured its own fulfilment. Millions of peo-

[Column 3]
ple will, this year, repeat the immortal
words of the Declaration of Independence:
"All governments derive their just powers
from the consent of the governed." The
men who periled all for this idea and for
that of "No taxation without representa-
tion" will be lauded in every newspaper and
from every rostrum in the country. It is
by such iteration and reiteration that truths
are made real to the popular thought and
conscience. What more natural than that
these constantly repeated truths conjoined
with the political necessities heretofore al-
luded to, should impress the public mind
with the idea that Woman's Enfranchise-
ment and equality in representation are the
true Centennial work, and that these after
all are the "something" that we have been
blindly expecting? If Woman's Enfran-
chisement is established in even one state in
1876, the claim of this year as memorable in
the progress of equal human rights will
never be disputed. If there is any other
way of realizing popular expectation of our
Centennial year so as to satisfy not only our-
selves but posterity and the world, it has
never been suggested.
	These are thirteen excellent reasons to ac-
count for Woman's Enfranchisement after
it is secured. Why not for believing that
it will be achieved soon?
			A GRANGER.
	Woman's Journal.


TURKISH LADIES.—I am inclined to
think, that all that we are told of the im-
prisonment of the seraglio is a great mis-
take. I suspect the Turkish ladies are un-
der no greater restraint than princesses and
ladies of rank in our country; and the hom-
ago paid them is infinitely greater. The
seclusion of the harem appears to be no
more than the natural wish of an adoring
husband to gurad his beloved from even the
knowledge of the ills and woes that mortal
man betide. Whilst he himself dares dan-
ger in every form, he wishes to protect “his
lady bird”—“the light of his harem”'—
from all trouble and anxiety. He would
fain make her life “a fairy tale;” he would
not even let “the winds of heaven visit her
face too roughly;” and as we carefully en-
shrine a valuable gem, or protect a sacred
relic from the profane gaze of the multi-
tude, so does he, on the same principle, hide
from vulgar ken his best, his choicest treas-
ure—“his ain kind dearie.” The Turks, in
their gallantry, consider the person of a
woman sacred; and the place of her retreat
—her harem—is always respected. Nay,
there have even been instances where per-
sons have fled for protection to their ene-
my's seraglio, and been thereby saved; so
that I found, that in Egypt I was likely to
be the guardian of the party, and that in
my utter helplessness I might possibly be a
panoply from danger to my protectors them-
selves. In fact, Mr. Salt seriously recom-
mended that I should always carry all our
most valuable papers and money about me
for safety.—Mrs. Elwood


WHO shall measure the subtlety of those
touches which convey the quality of the
soul as well as body, make a man's passion
for one woman differ from his passion for
another, as joy in the morning light, over
valley, river and white mountain top, dif-
fers from joy among Chinese lanterns and
glass panels.—George. Eliot.


KNOWLEDGE is precious for its own sake;
it is its own exceeding great reward.


