	MANTUA, BOX ELDER CO., Feb. 1, '76.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Perhaps a few lines from this place would
not be out of the way, therefore, I will at-
tempt to give you an account of our Relief
Society, but must confess that we have
nothing to boast of.
	We have since the organization of our
Society, elaborated a capital to the amount
of three hundred and eighty-seven dollars,
out of which $27 has been donated to the poor,
$142 has been paid toward the Emigration,
$170, is partly on hand and partly lent to
needy persons for a short time, the balance,
$48, is in the way of ladies' hats, artificials
and trimmings, made by ourselves for which
there is a ready sale.
	We intend after a little to have a shop or
workhouse built, wherein our sisters will
manufacture straw hats, artificial flowers,
trimmings, breakfast shawls, nubias, hoods,
neckties, scarfs and such other articles, as we
can make both for ladies and gentlemen.
	The sisters have a determination to fo
low out the counsel and instructions re-
ceived from time to time from our President
Br. L. Snow, among others to let our adorn-
ment be the workmanship of our own hands,
to patronize home production, and to buy
nothing from Babylon that we can possibly
do without. One of our resolutions is to
dress neatly and in a becoming manner, not
indulging in foolish fashions; but create
our own fashions, such as will conduce to
our health and comfort.
	We meet together once a week to bear
our testimony to the thngs of the king-
dom, and to talk over our own affairs in
general. I can truly say that union and a
good spirit prevails among the sisters, who
are always ready to meet for worship or for
work, and we trust in the God of Israel, to
crown our feeble efforts with success, that
we, united with our husbands and brethren,
may forward His design here on the
earth.
	We were very much edified and instruct-
ed by Sister Eliza R. Snow and others,
while on their visit to us last summer.
Hoping that we may ever follow their coun-
sel and example, is the desire of your sis-
ter in the new and everlasting covenant.
