	      THEIR ORGANIZATION

	Eight years, burdened with their joys and
sorrows, sunshine and storms, bringing life to
some and death to others, have flitted away and
are hidden from view in the dark sea of the
past.
	As a Relief Society, we have moved slowly
along; alleviating the sufferings of the poor,
and teaching those whose hearts were weighed
down with woe and sorrow, to look upward to
the Giver of Life, and have told them of Jesus
of Nazareth ever meek and lowly, whose path
we have essayed to follow, and in whose foot-
steps we have tried to walk.
	Eight years ago, after our Society was par-
tially organized by our beloved Bishop Nathan
Davis, we were told by him to "go forward in
every good work, and we had his blessing con-
tinually;" and I believe that each one who has
faithfully attended to the duties of the Relief
Society, no matter in what capacity, can certi-
fy that blessings have attended us, both in our
labors and to ourselves. In doing good to
others, we ourselves have been benefitted.
	"Cast thy bread upon the waters, and after
many days it shall return." So spake He of
old, so that not only will we feel blessed in the
work of our Saviour, but for ourselves we are
laying up treasures in the mansions of our Fa-
ther, "Where moth nor rust can enter, nor
thieves break through and steal."
	In the death of Sister Felt, our Treasurer,
our Society sustained a heavy loss. O how can
I describe the anguish that we felt, when the
terrible foreboding came to us that we should
lose her. Then for the first time we realized
how firm and true a bond of friendship existed
in our Society; that we were indeed of one fam-
ily, daughters of one Father; and when we
gazed upon her, robed for her burial, so white,
so still, so cold and beautiful in her dreamless
sleep, our hearts, although torn with anguish,
acknowledged that Father had released her
from her life mission, and called her home; no
more to sigh and sorrow, nor grow weary with
her cares, but to fill a higher calling, in the
home of her first childhood.
	The lesson to us is, to weave our web of life
so that if our departure come suddenly, the
thread may be picked up by another, and so
on until all is completed that our Father has
decreed.
	It has been our mournful duty to tend the
sick and dying, to robe the dead and lay them
away with all that ready hands and willing
hearts could do for them.
	O, who shall say that the mission of woman
is not exalted? What true woman, with her
hand once holding the plough, will turn or
shrink into by and forbidden paths? Our mis-
sion is divine! To aid the poor, to nurse the
sick, and bid the dying look to our Father and
God in the day of their trial, is the duty of
every woman.
