ELEVENTH WARD.

	All of us are, from time to time, receiv-
ing blessings from our heavenly Father.
Some, certainly, through faithfulness, re-
ceive greater blessings than others; but we
as sisters, having all descended from the


same heavenly parentage, ought at all times
to feel to bless one another.
	I often think how consoling it is, in times
of sickness and trouble, to have a good Lat-
ter-day Saint, one that is filled with the
Spirit of God, come and take you by the
hand and say "God bless you!" It seems
to cheer you up and make you feel truly
that God does bless you.
	When the Lord first gathered His people
to this land, [-]e promised to bless the land
for their sakes, and to make the desert blos-
som as the rose; and He has done so. This
is one of the greatest blessings the Lord
has bestowed upon many of his people, giv-
ing them a home in Zion.
	I know if we always try to do the will of
God, and keep His commandments, He will
continue to bless us; for we are told that
there are great blessings in store for the
faithful. When we live so that we can en-
joy the Spirit of God at all times, we feel
very happy, and feel that we are blessed
above all other people. We are promised
great blessings if we will live for them; but
we all have our weaknesses, and it seems
we cannot overcome them all at once.  But
God is more merciful to us than we are to
one another, and continues to bless us even
though we sometimes err.  And the more
we try to overcome our failings, the more
faithful we are, the greater blessing we shall
receive; for the Lord is always ready to give
us all blessings that are needful for our good
if we will only ask Him in faith.  There
are times when we may ask for something
and the Lord for some wise purpose may
see fit to withhold it from us, but because
His ways are not our ways, neither His
thoughts our thoughts.  He knows what
things we are in need of, and is always
ready to impart them to us.
	May we always live our religion and do
right, that we may enjoy the blessings God
has in store for us.
