150		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			﻿For the Exponent.
		TO HAL.
			[handwritten] Susa Y. Gates
	Your response to my protest, published in
the EXPONENT, I read with interest, and
really must give you credit for a fair share
of discrimination.
	Your surmises with regard to my charac-
ter and propensities were correct in the
main, though on some points you were in
error.
	You say I am "one of those girls" etc.
Now, although I signed "Old Maid," as a
Non de plume, I really do not consider my-
self so antiquated, as, from this fact, some
might be led to infer: and for fear you may
have formed an incorrect idea of my age,
personal appearances, &c., I will give a brief
description of myself and a synopsis of my
life, so far.
	I am rather above medium height, my
exact altitude being five feet eleven and a
half inches. (I hope you admire tall people:
this is leap year you know.) My complex-
ion is light, very light, and appears quite
clear when viewed by dim lamp-light, or
through a thick spotted veil: hair and eye-
brows of a deep amber tint. I have heard
of people calling my hair red, but I just put
that down to malice, knowing that it was
no such thing, but that they envied me my
golden auburn tresses. But to go on with
the description. Eyelids of a deep rose
tint, fringed with some half dozen pale yel-
low or canary colored lashes, from beneath
which peer two small, delicate eyes, on or-
dinary occasions of a subdued, ethereal blue,
but when I am engaged in animated and
vivacious conversation they are lit up with
the fire of enthusiasm and sparkle and scin-
tillate like "block diamonds." Nose most
emphatically of the aquiline type; mouth a
tripe wider than is considered the standard
of perfection, but when it is expanded with
one of my angelic smiles, reveals—at pres-
ent a vacuum, but when I get the set of
"china" I have recently ordered, I flatter
myself that I can display as fine a set of
pearl as a miss of thirteen who has never
been allowed to indulge in any excess of
sweets. My forehead and chin are not like
some I have seen, trying to push them-
selves forward into notice. On the contrary
they appear very reticent and receding,
and have to be sought out before they are
found.
	There has not been much variation, or
many remarkable episodes in my career, so
far.
	Until I was fourteen years old I stayed
closely at home under the care of my moth-
er, who superintended my education. I
was then sent to boarding school, where,
being a remarkably acute and precocious
child, I graduated with the highest honors
after a period of only eighteen years. I
then returned home with the expectation
that in consequence of my superior attain-
ments, my well-known amiable tempera-
ment, dignified imposing figure, and ex-
alted, refined and intellectual countenance,
I would, no doubt, soon be sought out by
some congenial spirit to be a companion for
—or—that is—a governess or something of
the kind.
	But the years rolled on, some twelve or
more, and I looked in vain for the fruition
of my hopes. No one seemed to appreciate
my true worth. I gave up in despair and
accepted the situation of clerk in a dry
goods store, where I spent fifteen years of
my life; I then, for the sake of variety,
changed my employment, and went into a
telegraph office as operator. I only stayed
eighteen years. I disliked the occupation.

[Column 3]
One reason was while I was there I had exper-
enced a sad disappointment.
	It was in this wise: I became acquainted,
through the medium of electricity, with a
gentleman in a distant office. We exchang-
ed photographs (I sent him the photograph
of a friend, thinking to give him a pleas-
ant surprise when we should meet,) he
seemed quite pleased with me. A propos-
al soon came over the wires, to which I of-
course returned a favorable answer.
	He came to visit me soon after, but on
first beholding me, turned pale, and trem-
bled like the culprit he was.
	You see I wear spectacles. Not as many
suppose to render my vision more clear, but
to add to the dignity of my appearance;
well knowing that I could not long occupy
the responsible position I do, with the very
juvenile appearance I present without my
spectacles.
	Well, as soon as the operator could regain
breath sufficient to speak, he asked to be re-
leased from the engagement.
	I suppose that he, poor, depraved son of
Adam, did not consider himself worthy of
even looking on a pure-minded, noble-
hearted woman, and in the fact of being a
woman, placed so far above him that it
made him feel small and insignificant to
think about it. But I was disposed to be
very lenient in the matter, and was so gen-
erous as to overlook the one great fault of
his life, that of being a man. He seemed
determined not to let me throw myself
away and sued so pitifully for me to re-
lease myself that I finally yielded, provid-
ing he agreed not to prosecute me for breach
of promise. He assured me he would take
no steps in that direction, but would use all
the means in his power to prevent notoriety.
	He seemed so completely subdued and
crest-fallen that I think he must have left
the country in perfect disgust with himself,
as I have never heard anything from him
since, and it has been about ten years.
And such is life.
	Now, before closing, allow me to display
my talent for reading characters intuitively.
You "are not what you seem." I have
talked all along as though I considered you
a man. But I am thoroughly convinced
that you are not. No such sentiment ever
emanated from the mind of man who take
such a narrow-minded view of the subject.
You are a woman; and believing you such
Sister Hal, I extend to you the right hand
of friendship.
	Yours in the common cause of Woman's
Rights and Wrongs,
		OLD MAID IN THE CORNER.
[handwritten] Augusta [---] Grant


[Column 1]
