SPANISH FORK, Feb. 22, 1876.
DEAR EXPONENT:
	In taking up my pen to write to your paper,
I feel my incompetency as a writer. There is
a passage of Scripture which says "Let your
light so shine that others, seeing your good
works, may glorify God." The Saints in this
place, both old and young, are carrying out the
counsel of our beloved President Brigham
Young, in regard to the hours of dancing
	Realizing that we are a highly favored peo-
ple, living in the light of immediate revela-


tion, receiving counsel and instruction from
the lips of inspired prophets and apostles; this
is the secret which the Gentile world cannot
solve. Judging the Saints from their own
standpoint, they call the obedience of the
Saints blind obedience, or one-man power.
Bible believers, forgetting that the Scriptures
say "My sheep know my voice and they follow
me, and he that heareth you heareth Me." The
Saints feel that Brigham Young is God's vice-
gerent here on earth, consequently are not
ashamed to honor all laws or counsels given
through him; even dancing in daylight, con-
trary to our old habits and customs.
	We are the children of light, therefore let us
walk in the light, and set an example worthy
of imitation.
	Our Relief Society held the first dance ac-
cording to counsel, on the 18th of January, un-
der the sole management of the ladies; Miss
Maria Finch, as floor-manager, discharged her
duties in a business and ladylike manner, to
the satisfaction of all; our bishop pronounced
the benediction at 10 p. m., all feeling well.
	The Bishop also had a party, en the 7th, for
the benefit of the missionaries. Our Young
ladies had a party on the 4th, the benefits de-
rived to be appropriated for literary purposes.
	I am happy to say that our young men are
also cheerfully taking hold. They held their
second Hunting-party-dance yesterday, com-
mencing at 2 p. m. They have killed, in two
days hunt, over 1000 rabbits, which was really
necessary, as they had become very destructive
to the crops. They saved all the pelts.
	As a Ward, we are striving to carry out the
counsels of those who are placed over us in this
kingdom.
	Round-dances are now things of the past with
our young folks.
	Ever praying for the prosperity of Zion,
		Yours in the covenant of peace,
