		HYGIENIC NOTES.

	How People Become Ill:—By cating too much,
and too fast; by swallowing imperfectly-masticated
food; by taking too much fluid during meals; by
drinking spirits and other intoxicating drinks fre-
quently; by keeping late hours so as to relax the
circulation; by wearing thin shoes; by neglecting
to take sufficient exercise to keep the hands and
feet warm; by neglecting to wash the body suffi-
ciently to keep the pores of the skin open; by ex-
changing the warm clothes worn in a warm room
during the day, for light costumes and exposure
incident to evening parties; by starving the
stomach to gratify a vain and foolish passion for
dress; by keeping up a constant excitement; by
fretting the mind with borrowed troubles; by em-
ploying quack doctors and swallowing quack nos-
trums for every imaginary ill; by taking meals at
irregular intervals.
	Power of the Hands:—Many mothers pass
their lives in rearing their families, giving medi-

[Column 2]
cines conscientiously, sparing no needful expense,
and yet never know what a power they are in
themselves. For instance; but few mothers know
that croup, taken in its early stages, may be often
removed by such simple appliances as the mother's
warm hand laid snugly at the throat and over the
lungs of the child, flatly, in the form of a poul-
tice, and acting quite as effectually and quickly as
any poultice or linament. This, with warm cover-
ing of blankets, with the warmth of the mother's
body, has relieved cases where children had taken
a little cold, without disturbing others or the child
either. It is not well for a child to be hurried out
of bed when it begins that croupy cough, often
breathing cooler air, which is always bad for that
peculiar disease. I only wish to say to mothers,
you know not what power your own hands possess,
until you have tried them on pains and early symp-
toms of croup. Those to whom these remarks are
new, will be astonished at the result of these in-
fluences upon the patient.
	It is a shame that such a blessed and useful
agent should be abused as this has sometimes been,
by impostors, claiming that it was the power of
some Indian Doctor, or some other long-deceased
person, while the rubbing slowly with the hands
of a friend over a person in distress produces al-
most a magical effect. Perhaps we should not be
astonished that some are so superstitious as to at-
tribute this power to some spirit agency, and
could exercise this faculty. if they would, on their
sick friends; but, nevertheless, I am greatly as-
tonished when I see others, who in other respects
are intelligent, claiming a supernatural agency for
such appliances. Of course the power is more
or less great, as the person or nurse posseses more
or less magnetism, and is more or less soothing
and sympathetic. Try this, mothers, when the
first coughing comes on, and many times, you need
not take the child out of bed. Rub the throat and 
lungs well, so as to produce good circulation when
you remove the hand.
	Overwork.—Dr. Wilks of London, writing on
overwork, says:—My own opinion has already
been expressed, that the evils attending it on the
the community are vastly over-estimated; and judg-
ing from my own experience; the persons with un-
strung nerves who apply to the doctor are, not
the prime minister, the judges, and hard-working
professional men, but merchants and stockbrokers
retired from business, government clerks who
work from ten to four, women whose domestic du-
ties and bad servants are driving them to the
grave, young ladies whose visits to the village
school or Sunday performance on the organ are un-
dermining their health, and so on. In short, in
my experience I see more ailments arise from
want of occupation than from overwork, and tak-
ing the various kinds of nervous and dyspeptic
ailments which we are constantly treating, I find
at least six due to idleness to one from overwork.


The Centennial buildings at Philadelphia
are positively huge. The Machinery Hall
alone—one of the smallest of the buildings
—would accommodate with standing room
the entire population of Philadelphia, which
is nearly one million, and there would be
room enough left for the people of another
good-sized city. And this building is not
near as large as the mammoth building just
east of it, known as the "Main Building."
In this building every living soul in the
State of Pennsylvania could be supplied
with standing room, and leave a good-sized
corner for the people of another State.
Then a person can walk a hundred miles in
machinery hall, without going over the
same spot twice. In the Main Building he
could walk a hundred and fifty miles. Tak-
ing all the buildings, a visitor to the Expos-
ition can walk over five hundred miles, and
not go over any one place twice in the
whole distance.—Ex.


