		DOWN THE RHINE.

 In my last I told you I would give you some-
thing of a description of my voyage down the
Rhine, the river of which we have read and
heard so much, and which seems to have such
a fascination for travelers.
  From Frankfort on the Main we went to May-
ence, stopping there only a short time, as we
were anxious to start down the Rhine. We
left Mayence early in the morning; the flags
were flying from every house, the soldiers were
out in full dress, the bands playing national
tunes, and everything looked gay and merry.
The boats on the river were all decked with
flags of different colors, and all the parading was
in honor of the Kaiser's birthday. It was a 
grand holiday throughout the empire.
  At last we were fairly embarked upon the
Rhine, that river of which tourists have talked
and written, and poets so long have sung, and
the beauty of which I would so delight to tell
you all, but what could my poor pen write after
Byron, Schiller, Lytton, and so many great au-
thors have so beautifully and graphically des-
cribed the castled banks and the blue waters of
this winding river.
  Almost from the first, after leaving the city
of Mayence behind, the banks began to grow
more beautiful; gentle sloping hills covered with
vineyards, where the women and children were
working and tying up the vines; all this seemed
so picturesque and romantic, I could not but ap-
preciate the poetry written of this land of the
grape and vine.
 At each villiage we were greeted by the firing
of cannons; occasionally we saw crowds of peo
ple wending their way up the hilside, going to
the forests behind, with baskets of picnic, and
all dressed in their holiday costumes. I cannot
begin to tell the pleasure I felt as one after an-
other of the grand old castles, the pretty villages
and the rocky cliffs presented themselves to our
view, then faded from sight, only to give place
to another scene still grander and lovelier than
before. Towards mid-day we reached the pret-
ty little village of Bingen, so celebrated in song,
and I thought of the  beautiful lines of Mrs.
Caroline Norton, you, my dear mother, taught
me when I was a child. I saw the picture here
of the 'Soldier of the Legion' and his fair love
standing hand in hand on the hillside gazing at
the beauty of the scene around, and their souls
filled with love; I almost thought I saw them
there, and that I heard the words,

"Tell her I dreamed I stood with her, and saw the yellow
	sunlight shine
On the vine-clad hills of Bingen, dear Bingen on the
	Rhine;
I saw the blue Rhine sweep along, I heard, or seemed to
	hear,
The German songs we used to sing, in accents low and
	clear;
And down the flowing river, and up the slanting hill
The echoing chorus sounded, in the evening calm and
	still,
And her little hand lay lightly, confidingly in mine,
But we'll meet no more at Bingen, loved Bingen on the
	Rhine."
How much sweeter these words are to me now,
before I only heard them, now I feel them
   Just beyond this village, on a little island, [---] a
grim old tower, called the Mouse Tower, about
which there is a story that a cruel Arch-
bishop caused a number of people, whom he
compared to mice devouring corn, in a time of
famine, to be burned alive in a barn;immediate-
ly afterwards he was annoyed by mice, and he
sought refuge on this island;his little persecu-
tors followed him there, however, and devoured 
him. We sailed down the river, greatly charmed
all the way. First on one side would rise an im-
posing ruin, then on the other a magnificent
castle, each with a long, interesting story, or a
sad legend.  On the left we saw a high, and
seemingly inaccessible, castle, where,  we are
told, robbers had made a home and hidden their
treasures, and just as the mind begins to fancy
the underground passages and the mysterious
haunts of this place we turn to the right and
see the two castles of Liebenstein and Sterrenfels
or "The Brothers," standing calmly before us,
and the pretty legend of these we cannot pass
by, though other interesting sights may be
missed. Here in Liebenstein lived an aged man
with two sons and an adopted daughter, both
sons loved their foster-sister and wanted to wed
her, but she favored the younger brother. The
other, disappointed in his love, joined the Crusa-
ders, and in foreign lands won honor and renown.
The father then built the castle of Sterrenfels
for the younger son and his bride, but the mar-
riage was postponed; the love of the younger
brother cooled, and hearing of his brother's suc-
cess and glory, he longed, also, to leave home
and join the Crusaders.
 Not long after his departure the father died,
and Hildegarde, for such was the foster daugh-
ter's name, lived alone in Liebenstein, mourn-
ing over her loneliness, and longing for the re-
turn of her lover, whose faith she never doubt-
ed. But one day he returned to the Sterrenfels,
bringing with him a fair Grecian bride. Hilde-
garde lived in the other castle in seclusion,
when one night a stranger knight demanded the
hospitality of the castle; this one proved to be
the other brother, who, hearing of his brother's
faithlessness, came home resolved to avenge his
sister's wrongs.
 The following morning he challenged his
brother to a deadly combat, but before their
swords were crossed Hildegarde interfered and
begged the brothers to be friends. She then re-
tired to a convent, which is situated just below
the castles. The brothers separated, each to his
own castle, and lived wholly apart from each
other, until the younger, deserted by his Greek
wife, threw himself at his brother's mercy, beg-
ging forgiveness, insisting that his friendship
alone could make him happy. So the brothers
lived the remainder of their lives in Liebenstein.
The castles afterwards were purchased by the
government, but now they are only ruins, with
this little legend attached to make them still
more interesting.
  We passed, of course, the Lorelle. but heard
no echo, only saw the great high cliffs and rug-
ged rocks. I cannot mention half we saw, nor
begin to tell by letter how charmed I was with
it all, but I thought, O, so many times, how
mother would enjoy this, and how I wish she
could see it all. Just before dark we neared the
part of the river, where on the high banks are
the Draehenfels, and so long as we could see, for
darkness came upon us, and the lights of Co-
logne shone out in the distance,these peaks were
visible, and the last thoughts on  the Rhine
were of  Byron's beautiful lines,
	"The castled crag of Draehenfels
	    Frowns o'er the wide and winding Rhine;
	Whose breast of water broadly swells
	    Between the tanks which bear the vine;
	And hills all rich with blossomed trees,
	    And fields which promise corn and wine,
	And scattered cities crowning these,
	    Whose far white walls along them shine."

It was night and we had reached ous destina-


tion, the Ci y of Cologne, where we spent a
couple of days most pleasantly, but I fear I shall
tire you with a long letter; later I will tell you
more of our journey, which has been to delight-
ful and charming to me that I know you will
also be interested in it.
Your affecionate daughter,
