	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

			(Continued.)
   Previous to this an express had been sent by 
the President to Mt. Pisgah to raise one hun-
dred men for the expedition over the moun-
tains, and the day before their arrival Brother
Woodruff had called for mounted volunteers,
when "sixty at once stepped out into line."
But the day following the people there were
thrown into consternation by the sudden cry,
"The United States troops are upon us!"  But
it soon proved to be Captain James Allen with
three dragoons--who after making known his
business in the High Council at that place,
was furnished with a letter of introduction to
the President and authorities at Council Bluffs
and Brother Woodruff dispatched a messenger
to prepare them for the business of this govern-
ment agent.
   On the 7th of July they began crossing the
Missouri River.  That day Horace and the
other boys returned from their trading trip in
the Platt country, having met with no other
accident than the breaking of a yoke and a
wagon tongue, the latter happened to Hans
Hanson while along on the prairie.  There
was but one boat and that capable of holding
only three wagons at a time.  Our cows were
driven across on the 8th, and we came down to
the landing in the afternoon, but a number of
teams were ahead of us, and we had to wait
till one a.m. before we could commence cross-
ing over.  Horace wrote:
   "Thursday, 9th.  We were blessed with a
fine moonlight night, which aided us greatly in
crossing. This morning drove our oxen into the
river to swim them across, but they would not
go, an account of the reflection of the sun's
rays upon the water, which dazzled their eyes,
consequently had to take them over in the boat
--at about five o'clock had everything over but
two oxen which were missing.  Had a very
hard rain while we were going out to the camp
--four miles from the  river, where we all ar-
rived to-night pretty well fatigued.  We just
learned that Bishop Miller,  who has gone
ahead, has had his horses stolen."
   "Friday, 10th. Rainy this morning.  Fath-
er came up to-day, he crossed soon after we
did, but stayed in the woods last night, and
was detained some time, having lost some of
his cattle, but he found them again.	*	*
Joseph Herring, an Indian of the Mohawk
tribe, has just come from the south-west; he
tells us that there is a civil war among the
Cherokees on account of one party of them
selling land to the United States.  He had to
escape to save his life, and had travelled 200
miles on his pony in three days.  This after-
noon we moved about [-] of a mile beyond and
located ourselves on a small rise of ground--
being much more commodious and cleanly
than the place where Brigham is.		*	*
Very good springs of water in the vicinity.
Quite a large creek about 3/4 of a mile distant.
The Indians have cornfields immediately
around us, and on that account we have to keep
close watch on our horses and cattle lest they
should break into them."
   I remember the scenes he describes and the
camping fires; also of going to the creek men-
tioned to do our washing, as well as the corn-
fields that we passed, they being the first we
had seen;and of our purchasing some of the
ears to roast.  It looked good to us to once
more see vegetation and cultivated land, or
anything resembling civilization after travel-
ling as we had and camped for so long a time
upon wild prairie land.  It was to us like an
oasis to the weary traveler in the midst of a
wilderness, and reminded us of our western
homes, where the tall cornfields waved o'er our
heads, and where we had learned the art of
making hoe cake, which was our "daily bread"
with hominy and the luxurious gravy from
transparent pork.
   Here we first met our staunch young friend,
Col. Kane, who came to our camp on the 12th,
being Sunday, and made a speech that evening
concerning the recruiting orders given to Capt.
Allen to raise a regiment of volunteers from
among the "Mormons.' on such conditions that
it would be an advantage to us.  Brothers O.
Pratt and G. A. Smith also made appropriate
speeches, ratifying what Col. Kane had said.
"This young man," wrote Horace, "appears to
be an instrument in the hands of the Lord to
bring about our salvation at the present time.
The United States' fleet have taken possession
of the coast of California.  By doing this we
establish a certain claim on the land, and once
there ours will be the majority of people."
   We learned that father and B. Young were
at the camp on the Bluffs, and that they were
all full of life and bustle--that over 300 had
enlisted,  Those who could went to see them,
some in carriages and some on horseback. My
mother went with others of our family and I
was to have gone horseback, but the boys all
wanting to go, and not having horses enough,
I stayed back--Horace and others returned
that evening, but father and mother remained.
We learned that one hundred men were yet
wanting to complete the recuiting list.
   The following is from the life of Brigham
Young:
   "Brigham Young, while believing the battal-
ion call to be a test of loyalty, hastened with
Heber C. Kimball and Willard Richards to
Mt. Pisgah, 130 miles, to execcute the "de
mand," as they deemed fit, for a battalion of
their picked men to serve their country.  They
immediately sent messengers, with official des-
patches from their high councils, to Nauvoo,
Garden Grove, and the regions around, calling
to head-quarters their old men and able-bodied
boys to supply the place of their picked men
going for the service of their country."
   "Returning to Council Bluffs, they gathered
the "Camp of Israel" to enroll the companies
of volunteers.  While Major Hunt' of the vol-
unteers, was calling out the first company,
Brigham Young conversed with Col. Kane in
Bro. Woodruff's carriage about the affairs of
the nation, and told him the time would come
when the Mormons would have to  save  the
Government of the U.S., or it would crumble
to atoms."
	"Forty minutes after twelve of the same day,
July 15th, the Elders and the people assembled
in the Bowery.  President Young then deliv-
ered to the congregation a simple but earnest
speech, in which he told the brethren, with a
touch of subdued pathos, "not  time to reason
now."  "We want," he said, "to conform to
the requisition made upon us," and we will do
nothing else until we have accomplished this
thing.   If we want the privilege of going
where we can worship God according to the
dictates of our own consciences, we must raise
the battalion.  I say it is right; and who cares
for sacrificing our comfort for a few years?	*
*	*	*	*	I want to say to every
man, the Constitution of the United States, as
formed by our fathers, was dictated, was re-
vealed, was put into their  hearts by the Al-
mighty, who sits enthroned in the midst of the
heavens; although unknown to them, it was
dictated by  the revelations of Jesus Christ; it
is as good as ever I could ask for.  I say unto
you, magnify the law.  There is no law in the 
United States, or in the Constitution, but I am
ready to make honorable."
   "Thursday, 16th. (Horace wrote) A meeting
was called at our camp--the people were told
to choose whether they would go over the
mountains with Bishop Miller to Grand Island
or to go back ou the other side of the river--
the most of them were for going on with Mil-
ler.  There was also a call made for more vol-
unteers for the war.  Brother Kimball, father
and Brigham started to go over the river to
the Bluffs--there to hold another council--
then they intend with some of the  Twelve to
go up the river some distance to seek a location
for us this winter.  Wm. and wife, Helen,
Sarah Lawrence, Harriet Sanders and myself
accompanied them to the Bluffs.		*	*
After going about a mile and a half from the
ferry on the other side, the brethren were met
by a number of the Twelve and others going
down to the village; being near Bro. George
A.'s camp they stopped there and held coun-
cil.  I rode on with the girls and we reached
the camp."
	Here we found a number of our old acquan-
tances--among them were Bros. Robert Pierce
and Cooledge and our families.  This camp was
much larger than ours and consisted principal-
ly of those who left Nauvoo long after our de-
parture.  Horace, myself, and Sarah Lawrence
stopped with Bro. Cooledge's folks that night.
Horace wrote:  "Friday, 17th. A meeting was
called this morning  and considerable business
done--there was quite a subscription taken in
behalf of Bro. Yokum, who lost a limb in the
Missouri persecution. and had suffered a great
deal--some gave him money, some flour, etc.
*	*	*		Wm., myself and the
girls took a short ride into the country this
forenoon, and about three p.m. started for
home, which we reached about sunset."  The
next day President B. Young and father went
some fifteen or twenty mile, up the river in
search of a suitable place to winter, but not.
finding any they came back, previously send-
ing on six men in search of some good place.
   Sunday, 19th.  They held a meeting in or-
der to find out who were going over the moun-
tains and who were not going to Grand Island.
   "They made out some fifty wagons which,"
Horace says, "were to go ahead--join Miller
and proceed with him over the mountains.
Brigham spoke severely of brethren, who being
set to watch cattle, fell asleep at their posts
and suffered them to roam into the Indian's
cornfields,	*	*	and those found
guilty of like acts again should be expelled
from the camp of Israel, for they were a per-
fect disgrace to us."
    "Monday, 20th.		*	Brother James
Smithers and Jacob Hutchinson went over the
river to join the rest of the band in a party
which they held over there to-day."


A man is known by his company, and his
company by his manners.—Swift.
  
 	Without economy none can be rich, and with
it few can be poor.—Dr. Johnson.

 	In all things throughout the world, the men
who look for the crooked will see the crooked,
and the men who look for the straight will see
the straight.—Ruskin.

 	Mind the paint. Don't touch pitch. Go the
other side the road rather than shake hands
with one who may draw you along with him in
the path of evil.—G. Everard.


