	MONTPELIER.
	Synopsis of the minutes of the Relief Socie-
ty meeting, held at Montpelier, March 2nd,
1884, President J. P. Lindsay, presiding.
Singing. Prayer by Bishop Samuel Matthews.
Singing. Minutes of the previous two days
meeting read and approved.
	Remarks were made by President Lindsay
on various subjects calculated to inspire the
sisters with a desire to improve in all good
works and encourage them in the path of duty.
Spoke on the word of wisdom, and also urged
the sisters to take good care of their bodies,
and to set a good example for their children to 
follow.
	Counselor S. T. Holmes said, we all have
talents, and if we do not make use of them we 
will be held accountable for the same. Spoke
about storing grains.
	Bro. Franklin said that President Young
had called upon the brethren many times to 
store grain, but when he found they had not 
followed out his instructions, only in exeption-
al instances, he called upon the sisters. When
the grain is stored up it is stored up unto the
Lord, and when the time comes He will tell us 
what to do with it. A great many people will
come to Zion to be fed and it matters not.
It is our duty to do as we are told, and leave


the result in the hands of the Lord.  It is right
to teach our children to ask the blessing on the
food, and also take their part in family prayer,
and prepare themselves for baptism when they
are eight years old.  The signs of the times
give us to understand that the end is near at
hand.  Desired to do a work in the temple for
his relatives.
	Prest. A. Laker felt that we were in a school.
The Lord has promised us light if we ask for
it.  We want to teach our children the works
of our Savior.  We can wield a great influ-
ence over our children, then how great our res-
ponsibility.  We are surrounded by tempta-
tions, but we must live above them.
 Sister Jnlia Budge said, we may receive
great blessings if we will live for them.  Bore
a faithful testimony to the work of God.
 Prest. N. M. Pugmire thought if we carried
out the instructions received, we would be a
better people than we are to-day.  It was her
desire to do as near right as possible; had
many reflections while listening to the sisters,
and thought that they were noble women.
Wondered if the girls thought of the many
duties resting upon their mothers, and if they
help them whenever the can.  Gave the girls
some good instructions on the choice of a hus-
band.
 Coun. A. Cook said, it is wrong to speak
lightly of the principles of the Gospel; if we
connot understand them we must not use our
influence against them.  We must be careful
whom we keep company with.
 Singing. Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m.
Benediction by Bishop Samuel Mathews.
2 p.m.  Meeting opened with singing, prayer
by Bishop H. H. Dalrymple.  Singing.  The
sacrament was then administered, after which
Prest. P. Hogenson bore testimony to the work;
was the only one of a large family that had
embraced the truth, and knew there was a
great work devolving upon her.
 Prest. VanNorman felt well in this great
work. Reported the society in Bennington as
being in a good condition, and made other re-
marks.
 Sister A. Austin thought the society in Lib-
erty was in good condition, and the sisters were
trying to do right.
 Sister Sivins said it was no use to shrink
from our duties if we desired the blessings of
our Heavenly Father.
 Prest. M. Carlson spoke very encouragingly
of the sisters of Ovid.  Spoke of the storing of
grain and said that one bushel of wheat in
time of need would save many lives.
 Prest. M. A. Shepherd desired that the Lord
would qualify her for the position she occupied,
that the object desired by the organization
might be realized.  Bore her testimony to the
truth of the work.
	Miss Julia Budge said she desired to do
whatever was required of her, or she would
never attempt to speak from the stand.  Hoped
that she would prove faithful to her duties.
 Bishop Mathews exhorted the Saints to at-
tend to their prayers, or they would lose the
Spirit of the Lord.  Said many other good
things.
	Bishop H. H. Dalrymple said, the people
of the world thought that the women of this
Church were in bondage, and that by giving
them power they would turn against their hus-
bands, but instead of this they cast a solid vote
for the Kingdom of God.  The sisters who
have spoken to us have had a long experience
in the work, and are very particular what they
teach the people.
	Bishop A. R. Wright said, we must do
whatever is required of us, as it takes a great
deal of moral courage to stand in this Church,
and our integrity will be tried.  Thought that
the ladies had a great deal more influence than
most men would like to give them credit for,

and they should be well educated, and obtain
correct information upon points of doctrine.
Sister Pugmire said, we realize the hand of
the Lord has ever been over us for good.  Let
us aid one another, be kind to the afflicted
and cast down.
	Prest. Lindsay made a few closing remarks,
in which she thanked the people of Montpelrer
for their kind and courteous manner during
the meetings.  If she had power to lift her
voice to the ends of the earth she would show
the world we are not the down-trodden people
we are represented to be. Exhorted all to
stand firm, even unto the end.
	Singing.  Benediction by Elder Thomas
Sleight.
		JULIA BUDGE, Asst. Secretary
				_____
		WOODRUFF, ARIZONA
	I believe we are doing as well as we can in
our Relief Society in this far off land, under
our circumstances.  We were organized one
year ago last January.  Our members number
about twenty, and most of them take a lively
interest in doing all they can.  We have our
testimony meetings once a month, and working
meetings once a month also.  We appreciate
our meetings very much, and feel that they are
a great blessing to us.  The Lord has given us
a commandment to meet together often that we
may be instructed in the truths of His Gospel.
It seems that there is a great deal for the sisters
to do; there is a great responsibility resting up-
on the mothers of Israel to raise their children
in the fear of the Lord.  I feel that we cannot
live too humble and near to God; if we keep
all His laws and commandments and go in
faith, asking Him for such blessings as we
need, even asking for wisdom, we shall re-
ceive.
The EXPONENT is such a valuable and
strengthening paper, and I value it very high-
ly, I don't know how I could do without it, I
take so much pleasure in reading its columns.
My prayer is that God who knows all things
will bless our desires to do good everywhere.
CATHERINE HATCH,
President.

