EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is with a feeling of regret that I write to acquaint
the readers of your valuable paper of the sudden death
of our young sister, Jennie Bush.  She died on the 17th
of March, after only a few hours sickness, of congestion
of the brain.  She was young, being only twenty-three
years old, and what seems more sad, was on the eve of
giving birth to her first born babe.  Much sympathy is
felt for her husband.  Bro. John P. Bush, in this two-fold
bereavement, and lady's mother and relatives in
Beaver.
	Deceased came into our midst about one year and a
half ago a comparative stranger.  During the most of
this time she has been occupied in teaching the public
school, in which she did a good work.  By her kindness
and intelligence she gained many friends, and was in-
deed a useful member of our community.  Her loss
will be felt by all.  She was reverently carried from her
own home to the meeting house, where the services were


held, by eight pall bearers, members of her school, and
followed by her immediate friends  and all the school
children.  It was a solemn and impressive sight; all
those little children whom she had taught to love her
by her kindness following her with grief stricken hearts
and faces to her last reseting place.
	The audience was addressed with comforting words by
Bros. Briggs and Pomeroy, also by Prest. J. F. Mac
Donald.  Forty-four vehicles and about four hundred
people followed the remains of our sister to the cem-
etery, where she was laid to rest, to await the resurrec-
tion of the just.
			Yours, very respectfully.
					JANE A. MACDONALD.
					_______
	DIED, at Midway,"Wasatch Co., Utah, March 11, 1884,
Sister Harriet Watkins.  She was the daughter of John
Steele and Mary Woods Steele, and was born December
5th, 1841, at Harley, Staffordshire, England.  She has
been the mother of 18 children, 9 of whom are living,
one a babe three hours old; her death was very sudden,
which cast a feeling of gloom over the entire ward.  She
died as she had lived, beloved and respected by all who
knew her.  She was a devoted wife and a loving moth-
er, was a member of the Relief Society, and our treasur-
er for many years- Always faithful in the performance
of every duty.
	Rest in peace, dear sister, until the resurrection of the
just,when you'll again meet husband, children and
friends, never more to be separated.
							MARY BRONSON.
Midway, May 13,1831.


Sarcasm is the natural language of the dev-
il.—Carlyle,

	Our prayers and God's mercy are like two
buckets in a well; while one ascends the other 
descends.—Bishop Hopkins.


