EXTRACT FROM LAIE LETTER.
		Laie, Oahu, Sandwich Islands,
					April 17th, 1884.
Mrs. S. M. Kimball, Secretary of the gener-
al organization of Relief Society:
Dear Sister, I improve the first opportunity
after our conference to send you a condensed
report of teh branches of Relief Society on the
Sandwich Islands. (Report will accompany
the letter.)
Our societies are scattered, and in some lo-
calities have but few members. Our sisters
here compare favorable with those at home for
punctuality in attending meetings, and if I
may judge others by those on this island, they
are faithful in donating and providing for the
sick and destitute; they are liberal with their
means, but not tender nurses.
The Islanders, as a people, adhere strongly
to old traditions and sorceries, it is no uncom-
mon thing to find them trying to pray each 
other to death. Their doctors use old spells
and charms as restoratives for the sick. Among 
the natives we find but comparatively few
deep thinkers who are capable of exercising an
intelligent and abiding faith in the principles
of the Gospel. Though not thorough students
there is among them a perceptible improve-
ment, could some of our Elders who labored
so faithfully here years ago have attended our
recent conference it would have made their
hearts glad to look upon so well dressed and
respectable looking an assembly as I saw seated
in our pleasant new meeting house. The sing-
ing gallery was occupied by the Laie and Hon-
olulu choirs. The singing was creditable.	*
*		*		* There are but few
books printed in the native language, the Bible
is the principal one; this the natives know al-
most by heart, they quote Scripture as fast as
they can talk.
I have introduced sewing into the society.
Sister Young and I meet with them and in-
struct them in economizing material, etc., we
find it embarrassing not to be able to speak the
language well. The sisters are pleased when
they are doing as they think the sisters in Zion
do. We are trying to help them all we can.
There are at present two Chiefess' visiting
Laie; they are cousins, tall, fine looking wom-
en, each of them weighing over 200 pounds.
One, Kapukini by name, has been a member of
the Church a number of years, is president of 
the Relief Society on Maui. She is a woman 
of as much intelligence as any  [---] the na-
tives, and talks of going to Utah. The other


is called Anne Tikelike, she is a daughter of
Kauhunahepie, who was a faithful member of
the Church and an influential man when Bro.
Cannon was here. She says her father while
he lived taught her that Mormonism was true.
She finally made up her mind to join the
Church and came to Laie and requested bap-
tism. She is a very fine specimen of a 
Chiefess.
	Praying for the success of those who labor
for the upbuilding of the Kingdom of God, I
remain your sister in the Gospel,
