A FEW THOUGHTS.

The subject of marriage is one that as ever
engrossed considerable attention, an will
while man has an existence. Mormon marriage
being peculiar in many respects is at the pres-
ent time very extensively discussed, and the
sentiments of the women of the Church are
more or less inquired after;and while the elo-
quent orators of the day eleaf Mormonism as
a theme for public lectures and discources, and
the great statesmen of the Republic are mak-
ing laws to regulate marriage among the "Mor-
mons," it does seem apropros for women, as well


as men, who are the interested parties, to give
 their own opinions, in their own way, that the
world may understand the views they entertain
upon these matters.
	Love and marriage are two very important
features in life here upon the earth. A love-
less life is a sort of blank. A woman who has
never really known the tenderness of intensely
loving has scarcely arrived at the highest degree
of earthly happiness. When one has realized
the power of that true and constant love which
attracts one to the opposite sex, then the desire
of becoming united through the marriage cer-
mony naturally follows. No life is wholly com-
plete without marriage. No woman's life has
reached its fullest and highest realization until
she has attained to the climax of her existence
through a true marriage.
	The first commandment given was to multi-
ply and replenish the earth; it was given to men
and to woman, and is equally incumbent upon
each. Has woman the same opportunities to
carry into effect this command as man? By no
menas. The traditions and customs of modern
society are all against women, and in favor of
men, but without discussing these, as there are
so many points to be considered, we will only
say that God has revealed in this dispensation,
through His servant Jospeh Smith, a better way,
a higher order of marriage, whereby woman
may be lifted upon a higher plane, and have
greater opportunity for advancement than she 
could possibly have had, save in exceptional
instances, in the world. Already these things
are becoming apparent, and the sacrifices that
women necessarily make are only such as disci-
pline the character and elevate the soul.
	Through this principle of plural marriage
woman will eventually be redemed from the
curse placed upon her, and this is worth all the
sacrifices it is possible to make.
	There are many arguments in favor of a plu-
rality of wives, but to give them in detail would
take too much space; suffice it to say, those who
have undertaken to establish this principle have
not done so without an understanding of the
great blessing it would eventually be to all who
would be born in the new and everlasting cov-
enant, and the practice is not optional with the
Latter-day Saints, but a command from God,
which they consider as binding upon them, and
they have received it with as sacred a feeling as
they went down into the waters of baptism. it 
is the sure path, that will lead to exaltation and
eternal lives; and to all who will live for it God
will give that testimony which will enable
them to comprehend how and why it is a saving
principle, and calculated to preserve and prolong
and increase life, and raise up a purer genera-
tion of people, with more of the spiritual and
higher nature, and even this one consideration,
were there no other, would be worth the great-
est efforts and best endeavors that mankind
could make.


