EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The Y.L.M.I.A. and Primary Association 
of this place united in getting up a programme
for the celebration of May-day which, in order 
not to interfere with the regular fast day meet-
ings, was celebrated on Friday the twelfth ult.
The affair proved a complete success, as we 
had no doubt it would, the arrangements be-
ing planned and executed by the ladies and 
afforded our community a day of real pleasure
and enjoyment, thanks to the untiring ef-


forts and indefatigable labors of Sister M. E.
Freeman, President of the Young Ladies' As-
sociation, together with officers of the Primary
and some of the sisters who kindly assisted in
teaching the children their different exercises.
	The only diaagreeable feature of the day
was the unpropitious weather, which was more
like December than May, raining nearly all
day, making it quite muddy, but in spite of
the weather the assembly room was filled till 
there was scarcely standing room left. At half
past nine the assembly was called to order,
and after the usual exercises the Young Ladies
and Primaries each crowned their queen with 
their customary ceremony; following which
were songs, recitations, etc., each of which are
deserving of special mention, but I feel that
it would not be just to encroach too much on
your limited space.
	I must however mention the "Address to
Parents," delivered by Sister Amanda Dana,
in behalf of the Primary, and the representa-
tion of the Young Ladies through their manu-
script paper, "The Advocate," edited by Sister
Ella Udall, and read by Miss Ida Hunt; it was
excellent, and displayed much literary ability
on the part of editor and contributors, and is a
great credit to the association.
	The whole affair, without one exception,
passed off very pleasantly, the little ones win-
ning desereved applause. The exercises were
all performed by members of the two associa-
tions, with the exception of an address by Bish-
op D. K. Udall and singing by the choir.
	Owing to our backward spring, nature failed
to supply a single offering in the shape of flor-
al decorations necessary for such an occasion,
consequently the deficiency had to be supplied
by artificial means, which was done by the
young ladies uniting their efforts and making
artificial cloth and paper flower ; these, with
pine and cedar boughs, made b [--]tiful bou-
quets and festooning.
	At the close of the exercises a free and easy 
picnic was in order until two o'clock, when the
little folks met to enjoy themselves in the
dance. During the afternoon those present
witnessed a pretty sight, the braiding of the
"May pole" by a number of little girls dressed
in white.
	The festivities of the day closed with a 
grand leap year ball in the evening given by
and for the benefit of the Young Ladies' As-
sociation, which all agreed was one of the most
enjoyable parties ever held in St. Johns; good
order and a universal feeling of sociability 
prevailed, and all enjoyed themselves.
