	PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL

			[Continued.]

   After Sister Presendia had moved into her
present home in the 16th Ward, President He-
ber C. Kimball gave her on one occasion a pe-
culiar blessing.  Bro. Kimball was a man who
when he was not too much annoyed with
worldly cares was full of blessings for the
Saints, and especially tender of his own family,
and often blest and prophesied upon those with
whom he was closely associated.  This particu-
lar blessing he told Sister presendia to write
and it should every word come to pass- It was
given April 7th, 1862.
   I want you Presendia, to go on the place I
have bought of Daniel Morse and take care of
it as my property, and you shall be blest in all
your labors, and everything shall prosper in 
your hands; be liberal and kind to the poor and
to the sick and; of your means and strength;
uphold me in your prayers and faith.  The 
angels that have guarded me through life are
those that guarded the ancient apostles in the
days of Jesus, they will be your guardian an-
gels, and the hand that is raised agianst you


shall be stayed, and it shall not prosper.  I
want you when you get moved to-day to write
this blessing, and it will be fulfilled; now go in
peace and prosper.  The blessing of
				PREST. H. C. KIMBALL
  After I got my household into the house I
asked my brother, Dimick B. Huntington, to
come over and dedicate my new home to the
Lord; he said when I had it cleaned and pre-
pared he would, but without waiting for him I
dedicated it myself to the best of my ability,
and with all the faith I could command com-
menced to clear up around and prepare for
making a garden, and planting trees and
shrubs of various kinds.  These grew and were
luxuriant and fruitful, a more prolific garden
there is not in the city.  I also bought a loom
and everything necessary to carry on weaving
and to make carpet and kinds of home manu-
factured cloth.  I have done all my own do-
mestic work and never have neglected waiting
on and attending to the sick for I felt it was
my mission in this life.
	Sister Presendia has indeed been an angel of
mercy at the bedside of many of the Latter-
day Saints when sick, and often, very often in-
deed, soothed their sufferings when dying.  She
has acted as a midwife and in faith and hu-
mility has done a noble work in this capacity.
	Her path has not been strewn with flowers,
but sharp and cruel thorns have pierced her
as it were on every hand, but now in her later
years, when her head is silvered o'er, and the
experience of her former life rises up before
her, she bows meekly in humble acknowledge-
ment and submission, and says it was good for
her to pass under the rod of affliction, for she
has learned to appreciate the feelings of others,
and knows how to sympathize with the trials
and sorrows of those who must pass through
similar ordeals if they expect to obtain a ce-
lestial glory and exaltation.


