TEMPLE DEDICATION

	The Dedication of the Logan Temple, which
took place May 17th, 1881, was one of the most
remarkable events that has transpired in the
history of the Church.  It is the grandest edi-
fice of its kind that has been erected in this dis-
pensation, and it is but natural to expect that
light, knowledge and intelligence from heaven
will be received in that house, dedicated by the
servants of God unto the Most High, with sol-
emn and impressive services.  Those who were
present on that sublime occasion and witnessed
the imposing ceremonies cannot but feel that it
was one of the grandest epochs of their lives.
Doubtless thousands of the Latter-day Saints
realized most emphatically that the Lord ac-
cepted the offering made to Him in the power of
the Holy Spirit manifested through His servants
on that memorable day.
	Services commenced at half past ten a.m,
President John Taylor presiding.  On his right
hand sat his First counselor, George Q. Cannon,
and on his left his Second Counselor, Joseph F.
Smith; President Wilford Woodruff and Apos-
tle Lorenzo Snow, of the Quorum of the Twelve,
also occupied seats on either side of the first
Presidency.  The different quorums of the
priesthood were all represented by the presiding
officers, according to their regular order.
	The Temple and everything pertaining to its
dedication has been graphically written up and
published in the several daily papers in this
city, and in Logan, Ogden and Provo papers, and
no doubt all our readers have already had the
opportunity of perusing all the details in print,
yet we cannot pass over this eventful circum-
stance without referring to the subject, as it im-
pressed the writer in a most forcible manner.
Never since the time when we witnessed the
remarkable, one might say marvelous occurance,
which transpired in Nauvoo at the time when
the mantle of the Prophet Joseph appeared so
plainly to fall upon Brigham Young, have we
seen any manifestation of divine acceptance so
distinctly clear as during the dedication services
in the Logan Temple.  A sensation as though
myriads of angels were in attendance and tak-
ing cognizance of that which transpired.
	The hymns sung at the dedication were writ-
ten expressly for that purpose, and the music
was home production.  The first hymn was
by Elder H. W. Naisbeet, commencing,
	"Come swell the grandly solemn strain
	Within these sacred walls to-day."
The dedicatory prayer was offered by President
Taylor, and was so complete and perfect that it
seemed to comprise everything on earth and in
heaven pertaining to the offering of the Temple
made to "Our Father" on that grandly suspicious
day for Israel.  After the prayer the choir sang
a hymn composed by Elder James A. Leish-
man.
	"In ages past, 'midst error dark,
	Our fathers lived and died."
	Presidents George Q. Cannon and Joseph F.
Smith and Apostles Wilford Woodruff and Lo-
renzo Snow addressed the congregation.  It was
a time of devout worship and precious enjoy-
ment of sacred things.
	President John Taylor made a few appropri-
ate closing remarks, and the assembly joined
him in repeated Hossannah's to God and the
Lamb, which thrillingly echoed through the
magnificent hall.
	The closing hymn, composed by Elder H. W.
Naiabitt, was rendered by the Logan choir in a
most rapturous style, as though they realized the
full force of the solemn yet joyous gathering.
The words are beautifully appropriate to the
theme.  We give the first verse:
	"Adown the ages that hath run,
	Like thread of gold in vesture rare,
	A memory fondest 'neath the sun,
	On history's page the one most fair!
	Man's greatest works beneath the skies,
	'Mid Salem's towers its glories rise."
	Sunday morning the dedicatory services were
repeated with a change of speakers, and again
on Monday, in order to admit as many as possi-
ble to partake of the blessings of worshiping
God in this hallowed place.
	On the second day during the exercises that
glorious hymn, composed by W. W. Phelps,
"The Spirit of God like a fire is burning," was
sung, the congregation standing upon their feet
and joining in the singing.  The effect must
have been most soul-inspiring, for the hymn is
one no Latter day Saint can ever hear without
feeling stirred to the depths of his soul.  Even
apostates refer to this hymn as a recollection
which they can never quite blot out of mem-
ory.
	In going over the Logan Temple and viewing
it in all its grandeur from basement to towers,
and gazing from the highest points upon the
surrounding country with its peaceful vales be-
low, and stupendous mountain heights, our
thoughts and emotions were inadvertently
drawn out in adoration and praise, and the
grand, prophetic poem of W. W. Phelps kept
ringing and echoing through the mind.
	"The towers of Zion soon shall rise
	Above the clouds and reach the skies,
	Attract the gaze and wondering eyes
	Of all that worship gloriously."

	"Exalt the name of Zion's God,
	Praise ye His name in songs aloud;
	Proclaim His majesty abroad
	Ye banner-bearing messengers."
	The hymns of praise, the solemn prayer offer-
ing the house unto the Most High, the words of
the servants of God who officiated on that mem-
orable occasion, and the thrilling Hossannahs of
the multitude, must be vividly impressed upon
every one who has the spiritual and emotional
nature largely developed.


