FORGIVENESS

	The Savior while on earth taught His disci-
ples to pray thus; Forgive us our trespasses as
we forgive those whose who trespass against us,
showing that they must forgive in order to be
forgiven. That they must pardon the faults of
others if they wished to be pardoned. They
must be willing to do unto others as they wish
to be done by.
	Again He says: If thy brother smite thee on
the right cheek turn to him the other, showing
plainly the spirit of forgiveness, and teaching
us that it is wrong to hold hard feelings with
another; that it is our duty to forgive if we are
the inuured person. That it is very wrong to
hold malice. That we should be quick to for-
give, as we hope to be forgiven. How very dis-
tressing it is to see friends, and perhaps rela-
tives, disagree on some small matter, and go
for days or months, and sometimes years, and
never speak to each other, and all the time hold-
ing the worst kind of feelings, even going so
far as to back bite and speak falsely with no-
thing but a difference of opinion for the cause;
each thinking that they are the injured one,
cherishing the bitterest kind of sentiment and
being willing to hear and believe anything that
is detrimental and injurious. How very differ-
ent from the example taught us by the Savior.
He who had  most cause of all to have hard
feelings towards His fellow men. He who was
subject to the grossest of insults, and endured
the most excruciating pain, taught us to for-
give all and hold malice against none. And
He who endured so much could do this? Sure-
ly we ought to over look the faults of others, as
we wish to have ours pardoned. To be able to
forgive an injury shows a strength of character
that is noble and god-like, and will cause much
joy and happiness; while to harbor this feeling
of hate and jealousy will bring nothing but
disconent and misery.
	To live and enjoy the society of those around
us, to pass through life and gain the love and
respect of our associates, and have the approba-
tion of our Heavenly Father, is joy indeed.
Then let us show by our lives, we will follow
the example of our Savior, and overcome all
that is evil.	M.A. CAZIER.
	Manuscript paper, Young Ladies' Journal
Nephi, Utah.


