THE SABBATH DAY.
	We surely ought to appreciate the privileges
we enjoy; we are free to speak and act, but I
sometimes think we are apt to do wrong on ac-
count of not understanding our duty as we
should.
	There are so many nationalities among us,
each having their own peculiar notions, that
we are apt to partake of their ways, unless we
study and reflect for ourselves.  The Sabbath
day, for instance; some think it is designed for
a day of pleasure, but it is several years since
I went pleasure seeking on a Sabbath, without
it was to go to meeting or Stake Conference, or
something of that nature.  For the Savior
said when He was asked if it was lawful to heal
on the Sabbath day, "That if any man had a
sheep and it fell into a pit on the Sabbath day,
will he not lay hold on it and lift it out?  How
much more is a man better than a sheep?
Wherefore it is lawful to do well on the Sab-
bath days" (Matt. xii, 12). Some may ask,
did not you used to go pleasure seeking on the
Sabbath when you were younger?  Yes, many
times, but I received a very severe and sorrow-
ful chastisement over five years ago, and I
have not forgotten it, although I sometimes
think I scarcely know how to do, for in an-
cient times, according to the Bible, they were
very strict.  If we read the 13th chapter of
Exodus 2nd and 3rd verses it says: "Six days
thou shalt labor, but on the seventh day there
shall be to you a holy day, a sabbath of rest to
the Lord; whosoever doeth work therein shall
be put to death.  Ye shall kindle no fire in
your habitations upon the Sabbath day."  And
we read in Numbers 15th chap., 32nd verse:
"And while the children of Israel were in the
wilderness they found a man that gathered
sticks upon the Sabbath day, and they that
found him gathering sticks brought him unto
Moses and Aaron, and unto all the congrega-
tion; and they put him in ward, because it was
not declared what should be done to him.  And
the Lord said unto Moses, the man shall surely
be put to death, all the congregation shall
stone him with stones without the camp. And
all the congregation brought him without the
camp and stoned him with stones, and he died,
as the Lord commanded Moses." More is said
in many other places, 31st chap of Exodus, in
the 13th verse, it says that it was a sign that ye
may know that I am the Lord that doth sanc-
tify you.  Leviticus 26th chap. and 15th verse
says: "And if ye will despise my statutes, or if
your soul abhor my judgment, so that ye will
not do all my commandments, but that ye
break my covenants: I also will do this unto
you: I will even appoint over you terror, con-
sumption, and the burning ague, that shall
consume your eyes and cause sorrow of heart:
and ye shall sow your seed in vain, for your
enemies shall eat it.  And I will set my face
against you, and ye shall be slain before your
enemies."  Much more is said, and in other
places the Lord says if they do not repent He
will bring seven times more upon them until
through hunger they shall eat their own sons
and daughters, beasts carry off their children,
and cattle and pestilence, the sword, and fam-
ine would make their cities waste and deso-
late.  After speaking all this the 34th verse
says: "Then shall the land enjoy her Sabbaths
as long as it lieth desolate, and ye be in your
enemies' hand; even then shall the land rest,
and enjoy her Sabbaths.
	35th. "As long as it lieth desolate it shall
rest: because it did not rest on your Sabbaths
when ye dwelt upon it."
	Of course this was given to the children of
Israel, but if we read Isaiah lviii, 13, 14, we
find great promises are made to those who ob-
serve it: "And if thou turn away thy foot from
the Sabbath, from doing thy pleasure on my
holy day, and call the Sabbath a delight, the
holy of the Lord honorable, thou shalt honor
Him, not doing thine own ways, nor finding
thine own pleasure, nor speaking thine own
words, then shalt thou delight thyself in the
Lord; and I will cause thee to ride upon the
high places of the earth, and feed thee with the
heritage of Jacob, thy father, for the mouth of
the Lord hath spoken it."  We also read in the
Doctrine and Covenants, 224th page, what has
been revealed in ths dispensation in regard to
the Sabbath day. "And that thou mayest keep
thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt
go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacra-
ments upon my holy day.  For verily this is a
day appointed unto you to rest from your lab-
ors and pay thy devotions unto the Most
High."  In reading the rest of the chapter we
find something similar to the promise in Isaiah
"Verily I say, that inasmuch as ye do this the
fulness of the earth is yours, the beasts of the
field and the fowls of the air, and that which
climbeth upon the trees, and walketh upon the
earth."  Much more that is pleasing to the eye
and gladdening to the heart is promised. This
alone should induce our young people to keep
sacred the Sabbath day, for they all like this
world's riches; but it is better to do as our Sa-
vior said. "Seek ye first the Kingdom of God,
and His righteousness, and then all these
things shall be added unto you."
					MARY J. MORRISON.
Spanish Fork, May 24th, 1884.


The philosophers as Varro tells us, counted
up three hundred and twenty answers to the
question, "What is the  supreme good?” How
needful,  then, is a divine revelation, to make
plain what is the true end of our being! Ty
ron Edwards.


