MRS. ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH:
	Dear sister, in accordance with my promise
made you yesterday, in Logan, I write you a
brief statement of a dream I had a few years
ago, which refers to a principle of great import-
ance to the Latter-day Saints.
	I dreamed I had passed away from this pro-
bation and was in the spirit world, and had been
assigned my duties, As I passed to and fro
among the people, I met an old acquaintance
whom I had known in England, when I first
embraced the Gospel. I went up to him and
said, Well, you have got here? He said, Yes—
to find ou that I have missed the prize I sought.
I knew the Gospel as true, and know it now;
but I stayed in England when I should have
emigrated to Zion, and thus failed to receive my
blessing, and I have sinned against the laws of
God, and must remain a prisoner here for many
years, till I have paid the penalty of my sins be-
fore I can leave this place, and he left me in
great sorrow. A short time afterwards I met
the bishop of the ward where I had lived when
on the earth. I was pleased to meet him, and
shook hands with him, very warmly, and con-
gratulated him that he had finished his work on
the ear[-]h. I told him we would have a good
time together as the labor was very pleasant and
agreeable. He said, I am going to stay here but
a very short time, and then I pass to my rest
I looked at him for a moment with peculiar
feeling, caused by his words, and asked him,
When shall I pass to my rest? I knew I had
kept the faith and been true to my covenants
when on the earth, he made answer, When you
have done the work that I have done, or if un-
able to do so, others do it for you; then you will
pass to your rest, but not till then	W
	The bishop was a practiced polygamist, and as
I awoke immediately after he had spoken, his
work was before my mind, and it was impress-
ed upon my whole being by a power I could not
resist, that unless I performed the same work
and obeyed the celestial law of marriage, I
would never obtain the rest I so much desired.
I accepted the dream as the word of the Lord to
me, indirectly, and I have sought from that
time to serve God, and keep His command-
ments and would advise all who desire the rest
of a Latter-day Saint to seek it through obedi-
ence to the full l[-]w of the Gospel, or they will
be sadly disappointed hereafter. With great re-
spect I remain,
	Your brother in the Gospel,
May 18th, 1884


Parlor feasts extinguish kitchen fires.---Pro-
verb.


