EDITORIAL NOTES

  THE EXPONENT of this issue ushers in the
new volume, and so many of the subscribers are
behind in their payments, we wish to remind
them, that they may come forward and pay up,
as everybody knows newspapers are not pub-
lished without money.  Now is a good time to
settle up all delinquencies, and also to subscribe
for the coming year.
  ON the 12th of May, as per appointment, the
officers of the Deseret Hospital Association met
in the Social Hall in this city, but as there were
not sufficient members to compose a meeting of
the association, the meeting was adjourned sine
die, or subject to the call of the President, H.
B. Clawson. Prest. Wilford Woodruff, of the
quorum of the Twelve Apostles, Prest. A. M.
Cannon and Joseph E. Taylor of the Presiden-
cy of this Stake of Zion, were present.  It is a
matter of regret that so little interest is taken
by the sisters generally in attending these an-
nual meetings.  We wish to remind the sisters
who became members of the Deseret Hospital
Association the first year that we have now
commenced upon the third year.  Many of the
members are deliquent in their payment of the
second year, and perhaps need reminding.  It is
an annual fee of one dollar per year.

  SISTER HANNAH T. KING of this city, well
and favorably known as a writer both in this
country and in England, has recently published
a new work.  It is an Epic Poem, being a syn-
opsis of the rise of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints from the birth of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, his martyrdom--the
journey across the plains, and the arrival of the
Saints with Brigham Young at their head, on
the spot pronounced to be the site of the future
Salt Lake City.  The book was published at the
JUVENILE INSTRUCTOR Office, and is now for
sale at that office, also at the EXPONENT office;
at J. H. Parry's, Main Street, and at Mrs.
King's residence, Dernford House, 17th Ward.
  It is a poem that will speak forcibly to the
heart of every Latter-day Saint.  The book is
dedicated, by permission, to President John
Taylor.  The preface is specially characteristic


of the writer, who writes, as she often asserts,
"As the bird sings its song,"
  In the preface, which is very brief, she says,
"My heart and brain were wedded in the con-
ception of the enclosed poem, consequently it is
the pet of the union."


