NELLIE WHITE.
  Nellie White, the young lady recently sent to
the Penitentiary for refusing to answer ques-
tions asked her by the Grand Jury, is a very
pretty and amiable, as well as brave and deter-
mined, young woman, nineteen years of age; a
fine specimen of a Mormon girl, and zealously
devoted to the faith of the Church.  She has
been, for the past two years, engaged in teaching
instrumental music, but had just opened a school
in Wanship the day before she was supoened to
appear bafore the Grand Jury, It has been
stated that Miss White is not to be allowed the
privileges which were given to Belle Haris, of
receiving things from her friends to make her
prison life more endurable.  Whether this is ac-


cording to law we are not prepared to say, posi-
tively, but if it were right and proper in the
case of Belle Harris, and no one seemed to op-
pose it then on any legal ground it must be
right now; of course this restriction is only to
make her testify in the case, and this is what she
is not likely to do under any circumstances,
however trying.
	Miss White is a delicate, refined, sensative
girl, a great favorite with her friends, and the
way in which she is being treated will bring
down upon those concerned in the matter, the
indignation of the parties interested in her wel-
fare. As for maintaining the dignity of the law
it is rather straining a point, when modest,
well-behaved young girls are sent to prison
simply because they refuse to speak, while dis-
reputable women may have the most perfect
liberty and freedom.
	Miss White is undoubtedly at the present
time the victim of religious persecution, but her
own clear conscience and purity of heart are the
best safeguards and companions she can possibly
have. There is still law in the land, and men
who love justice are well acquainted with the
rights and privelages pertaining thereto. We
expect to see the law maintained in its supreme
dignity in this instance, and Nellie White set at
liberty. It may take a little time to accomplish
this, but we are not living in the days of the in-
quisition or the Salem witchcraft.


