PRIMARY ASSOCIATIONS.

	Thursday morning Sisters Ellen C. Clawson
and Lydia. Ann Wells went to Big Cottonwood
to attend the meeting of the Primary Associa-
tions of that place; in consequence of the resig-
nasion of the president, Mrs. Esther Davis, a
reorganization was necessary, and Mrs. Ellen
C. Clawson officiated in organizing, and Mrs.
Ellen Sutherland was appointed President;
Mary Ann Brockbank and Mary Quist, Coun-
selors; S. A. Casto and Milo Andrews, Jr.,
made some encouraging remarks. Sisters E.
C. Clawson, E. Howard, and L. A. Wells and
other sisters, addressed the meeting. The aver-
age attendance at this Primary is sixty.
	In the afternoon Sisters Clawson and Dr. E.
B. Ferguson visited the Tenth Ward Primary
it being their annual meeting day. There were
quite a number of the sisters present; the exer-
cises were very good and remarks were made by
Sisters Clawson and Ferguson. Benediction
by Counselor James Woods.
	On Friday Sisters Ellen C. Clawson and
Lydia Ann Wells attended the annual meeting.
at Mill Creek. The four districts meet yearly
and two of them occupy the forenoon and two
the afternoon. Sister Mary Ann Birch presid-
ed in the morning, and Sister Ann Lemon in
the afternoon. Bishop Hamilton was present
and addressed the children; remarks were also
made by Sisters E. O. Clawson, E. Howard
and L. A. Wells. The children acquitted
themselves very well. Dinner was served in
the vestry and all passed off pleasantly. Some
changes were made in the organizations.
	Annual Primary Meeting of the 20th Ward,
city, April 24, opened with singing, and prayer
by Counselor M. E. Dunbar, singing, minutes
read and adopted also yearly report, which was
very creditable.
 The first exercise was an essay by Isabel
Salmon, subject, “The Primary Recitation.
Alice Evans, "A Wish;” Master Fred Daynes,
“A Farmer's Boy;” Mary Romney, song; Reci-
tation by six members, "This World is not so
Bad:" Selina Pusey, "Earnestness;" Dialogue
Pearl Cahoon, Rosie Romney, Annie Sharp,
Emily Clowes; Song, "Murmuring Sea," Alice,
Savage; Recitation, "Mamma tell a Story,"
Master Joseph Daynes; Organ Solo; Chapter of
Bible Questions answered by the children;
Nellie Lyons. recitation; Dialogue by five mem-
bers, "Self-denial;” Susie Ellis, song, "Let us
treat each other kindly," chorus by the child-
ren; Emily Sharp, essay, “The Primary;" Mas-
ter Albert Romney," recitation, “The Blind
Boy;" Hannah Livingston, recitation, "The,
Lost Child; Emma Lyon, organ solo; Lettie
and Maud Potter, recitation Josie Simmons,
reading; Kate Sansom, recitation; Dialogue by
two members, Home-manufacture; Maggie
Salmon, recitation; Dellie Daynes, song; Reci-
tation by six members, “Trust; the Children;”
Maude Lewis, reading; Alice Reynolds, recita- 
tion; Irene Daynes song. One or two other
recitations, the names we did not learn, Song,
Belle May and Maggie Cahoon.
	After the programme was completed Miss
Isabella Salmon with a few appropriate words
presented the President with a purse of money,
as a triflng testimonial of the love and kind
feeling of the children and parents. Sister
Toone was almost overpowered by this dem-
onstration of love and appreciation.
	The meeting was addressed by Sisters Claw-
son. P. L. Kimball and Louie Felt, Brothers
Dunbar, Savage, Romney, Lewis and Salmon;
also Sisters E. B. Wells, E. B. Ferguson and.
Jane Miller.
	Meeting adjourned for one year, prayer by
T. B. Lewis. Refreshments were then served
to all in the house.
	In the evening there was a very happy so-
cial gathering with songs, recitations and
music.					E. B. W.


