The Mother, by James MacNeil Whistler By Henry Turner Bailey {This interpretation of Whist'er's great painting "Mother," is reprinted by permission from a book entitled Twelve Great Paintings, by Henry Turner Bailey, published by The Prang Company of Chicago. Mr. Bailey is the Director of the Cleveland School of Art, and one of the most noted interpreters of art in America.—Editors.] In the midst of the rival beauties of the Luxemburg, gaily over-dressed in splendid paint, or boldly nude in gleaming marble, I suddenly discovered this quiet woman, modestly clothed and in her right mind. She had evidently set her face as a flint. Her eyes looked straight forward; they would not behold a wicked person. She arrested my steps. In life, "the charm of her presence was felt by everyone who came near her." That charm has been immortalized in this picture by her immortal son. I lost desire for the company of others, that morning, and stood before the canvas long and long, until now whenever I shut my eyes I can see its subdued grays, its lustrous black, its pale cream and rose, and feel the soothing harmony of its composition, like a full, deep, soft chord of organ music flooding all the place with peace. — This is the "arrangement in gray and black" that the hanging committee of the Royal Academy rejected in 1872, until Sir William Boxhall forced its acceptance on threat of resignation. This is Mr. Whistler's ''beautiful pattern of color and of line" of which he wrote to Fantin, "To me it is interesting as a picture of my mother, but what can or ought the public to care alot the identity of the subject?" The public never has been greatly interested i in mere arrangements of color and of line, and perhaps never will be. The men and women who are sensitive to rhythmic measures will always rejoice in the harmonic relations within this frame, in the rhyming verticals and horizontals, in the orderly scale of five low values, in the subtle harmony of analogous tones, in the perfect balance of diverse attractions, in the unassuming | but absolute 218 supremacy of the face over everything else; but the mass of men and women who constitute the public will always be interested in this picture primarily because of the subject itself, never suspecting that in these very harmonic relations, to which the artist gave lifelong study, lies the supreme charm of the picture. They are as potent as the drawing and modeling of the face itself in producing the impression which the masterpiece gives, of refinement, dignity, and repose, of perfectly embodied righteous Motherhood. This is a picture of Whistler's mother, of the woman who bore him in pain, who nursed him in sickness, who prized his first crude drawings, who taught him his Bible, and brought him up to hate insincerity and sham. She often feared her boy was "not keeping to the straight and narrow way," she never approved of his painting on Sunday, but nevertheless, she stood by "Jemmie" through evil report and good report and won from him the admiration of his passionate but locked-up heart. The haughty, insolent, sharp-tongued author of The Gentle Art of Making Enemes, was always "considerate and kind above all to his mother." He escorted her to church on Sunday, called her "Mummy" (his baby name for her) to the end of his days, and hung her picture in his bedroom, where he could see it last at night and first in the morning. When the dealer, Mrs. Noseda, with whom he was forced to place it to raise money during his "hard times," offered it for sale for a hundred pounds, Whistler gave her such an abusive scolding that she became ill! When at last the picture was purchased by the French government for the Luxemburg, he said, "Of all my pictures I would prefer for The Mother so solemn a consecration." What a life that mother lived! When in 1842 her husband was called to Russia to build that famous railroad, drawn by the Emperor as everybody knows straight on the map from city to city, she stayed behind until the children should be a little older. A year later with her four children she made the long journey to join her husband in Europe. One of the precious boys sickened and died ion the way and the little body was left at Kronstadt. With what tears and smiles man and wife must have met! For her husband she made that "Little American Home" at Galernaya. In 1848, she was in England with her children. In 1849, she was in Russia again, but without the children. Then her husband died. The Emperor started her on the lonely journey to England, in his own royal barge! But what cared she for the honor with her good man dead in his service? With an income reduced from $12,000 a year to $1,500 she returned to the United States to educate the boys, and to make a home for them at Pomfret, Connecticut. Then "Jemmie" went to West Point, to Paris, to England; THE MOTHER 219 and to England she went again, there to share his long struggle for recognition and success. When her son asked her to sit for this portrait, how surprised she was! How she blushed and refused! How happy she was within, and how hesitant without! How embarrassed when at last she consented, just to please 'her boy! Can you not see the little drama enacting again? Only her best black dress would be equal to such an occasion; only her best, lace cap, only her best handkerchief. Then she let her foolish boy place the chair where he pleased, and she took her seat before him. The tired feet, that had traveled over half the world with him, were placed decently together on the low footstool; the old hands, worn with a life of hard work, were folded in the lap, half hidden in the handkerchief. She thought they were not beautiful any more, like the hands of the fine ladies whom he had heen painting of late. The shoulders, bent with the burden of life, were rested against the back of the stiff chair. What use had she, Scotch by birth and Puritan by training, for the luxurious ease of a modern rocker! There she sits, alone in her clean orderly room. There is no husband now for whose return to prepare; there are no children now whose toys must be picked up, whose twisted clothing must 'be straightened out before the morrow. The house is still. On the walls are only pictures, symbols of her memories; behind her, pictures known only to herseli—we judge of their presence by the corner of a frame; by her side the picture of the present Chelsea, her English home, which we can make out but dimly; before her the dark curtain, which hides the future from her eyes as well as ours, But what a dear old face! Refined, strong, sensitive, "with an intense pathos of significance, and tender depth of expression," as Swinburne said, the record of a long, grave life of loyal devotion to duty, of self-forgetful service of God and man. There she sits, all alone, waiting; her eyes beholding the land that is afar off. Of the old school in manner, a little old-fashioned in dress, a little troubled in the laxity of her son's ways, a little embarrassed by the prominence into which he has forced her, but with the eyes of faith undimmed and the native force of her will unabated, that is Whistler's Mother. I gaze at her face until I know what was in Walt Whitman's heart when he wrote, "Young women are beautiful, But old women are more beautiful." I look at her until my heart warms. Old memories come creeping hack to me. I must have seen that face somewhere; I must have known that woman. Suddenly my throat tightens, my eyes swim with tears. Ah! That is the portrait of my mother, too; God bless her. *""