Mothers By Alice Louise Reynolds THE GIRL MOTHER OF FRANCE Henrietta Saget lives in Nantes, France. When she was sixteen years of age, she lost her mother. That was in 1912, just two years before the outbreak of the great European war. The loss of her mother left her the care of six brothers and sisters, her father, and an aged grandmother, as well as the responsibility of the household. The children were all in frail health for they are children of very frail parents. With this load upon her, Henrietta still applied herself to study, for she knew that as soon as she was able she must do her part towards the support of the family, At the age of seventeen, she went to work for a very small wage, and at eighteen her father died, leaving her the sole means of support for the family. Courageously, she toiled day and night for the seven who were dependent upon her. Then the oldest of the little sisters died, and she, fearing the disease that had already carried away so many of her loved ones might in time take them all, began a persistent fight for their lives. She obtained a position, at a modest salary, as a stenographer among people who were interested in her valiant struggle for the health and well-being of her family of little ones. And then something happened; something very surprising, indeed. In that country where beauty among women has always been of supreme importance; where thousands of people have given themselves over to the manufacture of such articles as they. Believe make for and preserve feminine beauty; in that land where even children know the art of using cosmetics, and where a woman would as soon slip into the street with her bare feet as without her "make-up"; in that land where at the Mid-Lenten celebration the prettiest girl in France is selected as the queen of queens, a Paris newspaper, the Echo de Paris, offered a prize of 45,000 francs at par, an amount equalling $9,000, for the most deserving girl in France. The newspapers of the metropolis circulate throughout the provinces so that the offices of the paper began to be flooded with stories of deserving girls from all parts of the country. From the many submitted, seven hundred and thirty-five were chosen. A MOTHERS 223 committee of eminent persons, headed by Gen. De Castlenau passed on the merits of each case. And so it chanced that while Henrietta Saget was at work, a delegate from the Paris newspaper waited upon her, and told her that the prize money was all hers-_that she had won the 45,000 francs and was adjudged the most deserving girl of her country. A PIONEER MOTHER She sat knitting lace. Shewas now eighty years of age. Her face was wreathed in smiles, for she was the mother of a son who had fulfilled her largest hopes. "We were very poor," she said, "very poor, indeed. J had borne a number of children and the hardships of pioneer life seemed to be undermining my constitution. Somehow the feeling took hold of me that in giving birth to the little one that then nestled under my heart, my life would be required. "T was reconciled to what to me was a certainty, but I prayed daily and almost hourly to the good Father that he would give me a child who would be a real benefactor to the world. "When the hour came and I felt the agony of the first birth pangs I folded the bundle of clothes I had prepared for the little new-comer and placed them at the bottom of the bed where the good woman who was to care for me might find them when she came. Then. I sank on my knees at the head of the bed and told the Lord that whatever was his will in the matter was also mine; yet I begged that the child for whom I then suffered should be known for good among his fellowmen. "The next thing of which I havea very distinct recollection, at this moment, was the coming of the mid-wife to my bedside, and. The placing of the child in my arms—a son. Then, for the first time, I realized that my life had not been required and as I looked upon his face he seemed to me the loveliest babe upon whom J had ever gazed. "He grew up and was through his childhood what he neg been through his manhood—a source of great comfort and joy to me. "He early gave evidence of being a child of talent, and I had much anxiety lest he should lack the training that would make his talent useful, for we had no money. When a lad in his teens, two men, one living in our little village, and the other in Salt Lake City, recognized his gift and made up a small purse and sent him Fast. "He struggled along, in very modest quarters, not infrequently living on one meal a day, but he managed somehow, and was successful in his work. Then a good woman who had been blessed 224 with money, but not with a talented son, recognized his gift and told him to go on with his work wherever he wished. "He accepted her kindly offer, and she handed him a check book, saying: 'I shall not make for you any set allowance; take this book and write checks for anything you need for your study and development.' "This," said the proud mother, "is the story of my son. People all over the United States and many who live in foreign lands know of his work.". E A MODERN MOTHER She used to sing in one of the ward choirs in Salt Lake City and teach a Sunday school class on Sunday. The girls in that class wished that they might be as beautiful as she when they grew up. They did not know how really beautiful she was, or might become—they only knew how beautiful she looked. Then she married and moved from Salt Lake City and since that time has been living in several communities where the Saints reside. She is the mother of four sons and four daughters, never having lost a child. Two of her sons are business men, one owning his own business, the other managing the business of a prominent firm here in the state. The other two sons are in college, one in the state of New York, and the other in the state of Indiana. Three of the daughters are married; the only unmarried daughter is the youngest child. She is at home with her mother, helping in the household and devoting whatever spare time she has to music. This family has never had a large income, indeed, the family income has been very modest, and yet they have enjoyed and are still enjoying some of the best things in life. The parents and children have all worked to a common end, and they have largely realized the end for which they have worked. For thirty years the mother has taken into her home people in need of room and board, and she has been such an expert manager that she has had time to sew on the side. At present she has five persons in her home for whom she is supplying room and board and she is still making dresses. Last October she attended the Relief Society conference and she was very likely at the April conference this year. She is not one of the women who regret that women have the franchise. Election day always finds her discharging her duty to her state and to her nation in accord with her best understanding of the questions at issue. Though a grandmother with fifteen grandchildren, she is still beautiful. When you ask her how she has been able to rear and educate eight children, keep up her home, care for roomers and boarders and sew as well, she has but one reply; it has been done through the mingling of faith and works and love, to which God has added his blessings. And now, as you read these sketches, how many of you are saying, with Henry Turner Bailey, "Old memories come creeping back to me, I must have seen that face somewhere! Imust have known that woman. Ah! That is the portrait," or in this instance, sketch, "of my Mother, too; God bless her."