What is a VitaminePr Fred W.. Merrill There are many people who would like to know. What is it? Where does it come from? What does it do? Can it be manufactured? All these and a number of other queries are being worked on by the best scientific brains of this and other countries. That it is necessary for human beings has been well established. That it is found in certain foods has also been agreed. That its absence leads to the development of scurvy, rickets, beriberi, blindness and paralysis is also recognized. But there are a number of things yet to be learned, about which there is variance of opinion. There are four vitamines. They are designated as Fat Soluble "A," Water Soluble "B," and Water Soluble "C," and anti-Rachitic Fat Soluble "A" occurs most largely in milk, butter, egg yolk, codliver oil, liver and kidney fat, spinach, young carrots, sweet potatoes, yellow corn and some other foods. Scientific men are searching through the foods used by man to locate all the sources of this vital element. Milk and butter are regarded as the most important source. Just how much there is in a quart of milk or a pound of butter is uncertain. It is now generally believed that the amount of Fat Soluble "A" is dependent upon the feed of the cow, and further upon the manner in which the butter is handled in the process of manufacture. This leads us to recognize that there is a difference in milk not heretofore taken into account. Whale oil is fairly well supplied with Vitamine ".\," though not so much so as is butter, but who wants to eat whale oil? Pig's liver oil and liver and kidney tissue, and probably other glandular organs furnish a fair amount. Most people, however, confine their eating of pork to the muscles of the pig and not to the glandular organs, so that although these organs may be well supplied with vitamine they do not contribute much to the food of the average family. Dried spinach, alfalfa, clover, timothy and tomatoes promote growth of rats just as satisfactorily as a small quantity of butterfat. We eat both spinach and tomatoes but do we eat enough of these to get as much Vitamine "A" as our bodies require? The cow eats alfalfa, clover, timothy and corn and she isa heavy eater, hence she gets a large amount, much of which goes to the milk which she manufactures for our use. Cabbage and potatoes also contain small quantities. Carrots and sweet potatoes and yellow WHAT IS A VITAMINE? 245 corn contain amounts sufficient to maintain satisfactory growth in rats and guinea pigs. But here is the point. We don't eat carrots, sweet potatoes and yellow corn every day, and we must get vitamines every day, which leads us to conclude that our best and most reliable source of supply is in the milk, butter, cheese and ice cream which are generally available every day of the year at prices within the reach of every one. Water Soluble Vitamine "B" is most abundant in the germ or embryo of grain and seeds. It seems to be associated more with the husks and germs, which are usually extracted and fed to live stock and hence our ordinary white flour, corn meal and rice have had this element removed in the process of refinement. Water Soluble "C'" is found mostly in fresh fruits and vegetables, particularly cabbage and orange juice. It is found in orange juice in most available form. Milk is not known to be an abundant source-of this element, and if babies are confined to an exclusive milk diet, especially milk that has been kept or heated, scurvy occasionally develops. This is the reason why orange juice is so universally recommended by doctors and nurses as a food suitable for young infants, to supplement their milk diet. ——$—— Items About Women; A separate college for women students at the University of Pennsylvania is to be erected shortly. There are thirty girls now attending Pennsylvania State College, who are "working their way through." The Federation of campus Women of the University of Chicago recently fixed a $30 limit on the cost of college clothes. Russian boots and galoshes are tabooed.—New York Sun. From newsgirl, salesgirl, factory worker and stenographer, Mrs. Mary Ranty Schwab has risen to assistant city attorneyship in San Francisco, being the first woman to receive stich an honor in that state. Martha Hale, a freshman at the University of California, has no arms, but with her feet does practically everything that a physically normal girl of 20 does with her hands, including cooking, writing, sewing, and dressing herself. He Meant What He Said Dr. Thomas L. Martin, Brigham Young University One sometimes hears unfavorable comments concerning the statements made by the prophet, Joseph Smith, a record of which is found in the Pearl of Great Price, where he tells of his experience in. The woods when the Father and the Son appeared to him. In chapter 2, verse 19 of the Writings of Joseph Smith, we read: "T was answered that I must join none of them, for they were all wrong; and the Personage who addressed me said that all their creeds were an abomination in his sight; that those professors were all corrupt; and 'they draw near to me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me; they teach for doctrines the commandments of men, having a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof.'"' The particular part objected to is, "All their creeds are an abomination in his sight.'' Tt is the desire of those who criticize to be broad-minded and sympathetic. "Just think of the amount of good done by the churches of today," say some, "and yet Joseph Smith made such a remark. No wonder he brought persecution upon himself by such comments; he was surely unjust." When we hear such comments we should remember that church doctrines as they are taught today are being considered, and judgment is made upon the Prophet Joseph for what he said almost one hundred years ago. The judgment is not fair. Let us consider what was taught in the days of Joseph Smith and then apply these criticisms and see if we think such was very far from the truth. The ministers in that day taught that there was a hard and fast line between the saved and the damned. If a man rendered a great amount of service in this life, and was a very faithful church member, he would be transported to the place called heaven, when he died. Another man, his ne'ghbor, not quite as faithful to his fellow men but belonging to the same church and paying the same dues, although not quite so good in life as his neighbor, would reach heaven as easily and receive the same reward as the more perfect man. There was no gradation in heaven. All men who were successful in passing the minimum requirements as interpreted by the priests would enjoy the same blessings. The work of these men upon reaching heaven was probably to gaze for millions of years upon the face of God, or play upon a golden harp, or sprout wings and flit here and there seeking heavenly bliss. Suppose now, the man was unfortunate enough HE MEANT WHAT HE SAID 247 to find his good deeds just too few to balance his foul deeds, he would be carried to hell after he died, there to mingle with bundreds of others who had been guilty of the most heinous crimes. Hell was a place where all who failed to pass heaven's requirements would go. It was understood that if one were unfortunate enough to go to hell he would burn in misery forever and ever. Imps, well supplied with pitchforks, would see that they sizzled evenly in the lake of fire and brimstone, turning those condemned over often that they would roast evenly. It meant an everlasting trip to this place if a man did not belong to the right church, and failed to do what the priests said he must do! God was a terrible being and if man did not obey he would eternally suffer the highest type of misery it was possible for man to conceive. It was decreed by these ministers that if parents were so faithless as to neglect to have their babies baptized, and unfortunately these babes should die, that no power on earth, heaven, or hell could save them. They must go to the lake of fire and brimstone, there to burn forever. If the parents should, at a later date, be-_ come faithful church members, they would, after death, zo to the bosom of Abraham and there look upon the sufferings of the damned in hell, including their own unbaptized infants, and expe- "rience thrills of joy. On the porticos of many of the churches in England will be found engraved thereon images of children, infants who died without baptism. They are pictured as being placed in piles while Satan with hoof and tail arrayed, is busily engaged throwing these babies into boiling caldrons in hell where they may suffer the misery of the damned. Think of such pictures! How can they develop anything but a fear of God! These things were contrary to the ethical laws of man. No wonder thinking men were ready to revolt at such doctrines. This doctrine of hell, as taught by the ministers in the days of Joseph Smith, was a vital part of their creed. Compare it with the doctrine taught by Joseph Smith in the Doctrine and Covenants Section 19, verses 2 to 12, and Section 76. A fair comparison makes the doctrine of hell as taught by the ministers of that day seem revolting. It was an abomination of the worst kind, and when Joseph Smith said, "Their creeds are an abomination in his sight," he was right. One's heart must surely grieve when one thinks of the religious doctrines that were taught to our grandparents and great grandparents. How their sensitive hearts must have been touched as the ministers in those days taught such distasteful ideas! How they must have suffered as they tried to harmonize such teachings with a just God! When Joseph Smith taught them that God had. Said his punishment was eternal because he himself was eternal; that there would be an end to punishment after every farthing had been paid; that there were three 248 glories in heaven with different degrees in each glory; that we would be rewarded for the things we did; that we get out of life what we put into it; that what we are here is determined largely by the way we lived in our pre-exis'ent state; and that what we will become in the future depends upon how we live here; when he taught all these things how wholesome and true it must have appeared to our foreparents! The ideas as tatght by the ministers in the days of Joseph Smith were an abomination to all thinking men and women on earth; surely it was an abomination to God! It was replaced by the doctrine based upon a square deal to men, and all men who believe in such ideas are influenced in their lives to such an extent that their conduct in life is greatly enhanced. History of Lights Here are some interesting facts in regard to the progress of, lighting. The earliest form of lighting was a wood fire in a cave. 5000 B. C-—Torches or lighted splinters placed in holders of stone or clay. B. C.—Lamps, made of brass or bronze, became highly artistic. B. C—Romans used rushes soaked in grease—forerunners of the candle. A. D.—Phoenicians introduced candles in Constantinople. 400 to 1700—-A. D.—The candle, tallow or wax, vies with lamps and lanterns. 1700—Oil lamps, with wicks, began to be used. 1780—Oil lamps are equipped with round wicks and glass chimney. Ps 1800—Gas lighting perfected, but candle still most universal ight. _ 1850-—Discovery of petroleum, revolutionizing oil lamp lighting. 1879--Edison, apostle of light, produces incandescent electric lamp. 1885—Auer Von Welbasch produces incandescent gas mantle. 1895—Incandescent electric lights made with carbon filament, in growing use. 1922—Incandescent electric light, using Tungsten filament, in high state of perfection. What will be the next?—Journal of Education.