[Vol7 | May 1920 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]

Guide Lessons LESSON I. Theology and Testimony First Week in June. The Ready Reference. AIM: Of learning to discover the value of focusing scripture evidence. A compilation of information is extremely useful to students whose memories do not carry necessary passages of notice. and who desire scripture Missionaries compact reference and a students a moment's alike haveat found great value in the study and use of the "Church Compendium," and the "Ready Reference." Both these books contain compiled references on the subject of baptism for the dead, and while our lessons have contained most of these references the students will be repaid by a study of these books. Both of them give a simple, condensed view of the subject of baptism for the dead, and either would serve as a storehouse of information for one who greatly desired the help. The "Ready Reference" introduces the subject with a brief argument, and then carries forward the subject with appropriate quotations. The reference closes with some quotations from contemporary writers and a brief argument in favor of the principle. (From Ready References, page 128.) Note. — Prof. A. Hinderkoper, a German writer, says: "In the second and third centuries every branch and division of the Christian church, so far as their records enable us to judge, believed that Christ preached to the departed spirits." — "Haley's Discrepancies of the Bible." Bishop Alford says: "I understand these words (I Peter , 19) to say that our Lord in his disembodied state, did go to the place of detention of departed spirits, and did there announce his work of redemption;  preach salvation in fact, to the disembodied spirits of those who refused to obey the voice of God when the judgment of the flood was hanging over them." "While there are many professors of theology who attempt to explain away the words of Peter, or deny their evident 
 meaning, there are many others who are willing to admit that they mean what they say. The "Apostles' Creed," so frequently recited by the Church of England, states that Christ after being crucified, dead and buried, "descended into Hell," and the third day rose again from the dead. The third of the thirty-nine articles of religion accepted by all Episcopalians also says: "As Christ died for us, and was buried;  so also is it to be believed, that he went down into hell." Why Christ preached to the dead, though, or how they, not being baptized, could be saved, theologians of the day do not explain;  the idea of a vicarious baptism being performed by the living in their behalf is foreign to their creeds. Even the Romish church, as Bishop Milner in his "End of Religious Controversy," confesses, does not pretend to understand the doctrine of baptism for the dead, which was evidently well understood in Paul's day. "It is not unreasonable to infer that the prayers and penance offered in behalf of the dead by professing Christians during later ages, or other means resorted to for the purpose of redeeming the souls of dead friends from purgatory are perverted relics of the vicarious ordinance incidentally alluded to by Paul, as an argument in favor of the resurrection. The vicarious principle is by no means exceptional in the Gospel. Indeed, it lies at the very foundation of the Christian religion. The Savior did a vicarious work in redeeming mankind from the grave. It was customary also among ancient Israel for the tribe of Levi to engage in ordinances and ceremonies in behalf of the people. The mention of the scapegoat in the sixteenth chapter of Leviticus is another illustration of the same principle. And when the preaching to the spirits in prison is considered in connection with the ordinance of baptism for the dead mentioned by Paul, the vicarious means by which the prison doors are to be opened and salvation extended to those who have died without conforming to the ordinances of the Gospel become apparent. In view of the fact that the ordinance for the benefit of the dead, which existed anciently, had become so entirely lost sight of or changed, and that no person living upon the earth could explain authoritatively what was necessary in this connection, the importance and necessity of revelation upon the subject, such as is promised by Malachi, must be plain to every reasonable mind. — "Ready Reference." "Origen, who lived in the second century, taught a universal restoration, saying that when each sinner shall have received the penalty of his sins, that God will, through Christ, lead the whole universe to one end. Later, this doctrine was condemned by the Church of England, but later again declared not contrary to her teachings. Prominent among the modern English divines who held out hope for the dead was Frederick W. Farrar, dean of Canterbury. He delivered five sermons in Westminster Abbey on 'Eternal Hope,' which have had wide publicity." QUESTIONS. 1. What is the value of focusing references on any given subject? 2. 3. Who Give the prepared table the "Ready Reference," and when? of contents? 4. What can you say of the article on baptism of the dead contained therein? 5. What are we told in the scriptures concerning the spirits in prison and their condition? Note. — It is well for us to inquire somewhat concerning the condition of those who depart this life without an opportunity of receiving the gospel. It is surprising the amount of evidence in the Bible and Doctrine and Covenants concerning this subject, and we recommend the class to read the whole article in the "Ready Reference."