[Vol7 | May 1920 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]
Guide  Lessons 
LESSON  I. 
Theology  and  Testimony 
First  Week  in  June. 
The  Ready  Reference. 
AIM  :  Of  learning  to  discover  the  value  of  focusing  scripture 
evidence. 
A  compilation  of  information  is  extremely  useful  to 
students  whose  memories  do  not  carry  necessary  passages  of 
scripture  and  who  desire  a  compact  reference  at  a  moment's 
notice.  Missionaries  and  students  alike  have  found  great 
value  in  the  study  and  use  of  the  "Church  Compendium," 
and  the  "Ready  Reference." 
Both  these  books  contain  compiled  references  on  the  sub- 
ject of  baptism  for  the  dead,  and  while  our  lessons  have 
contained  most  of  these  references  the  students  will  be  repaid 
by  a  study  of  these  books.  Both  of  them  give  a  simple, 
condensed  view  of  the  subject  of  baptism  for  the  dead,  and 
either  would  serve  as  a  storehouse  of  information  for  one 
who  greatly  desired  the  help. 
The  "Ready  Reference"  introduces  the  subject  with  a 
brief  argument,  and  then  carries  forward  the  subject  with 
appropriate  quotations.  The  reference  closes  with  some 
quotations  from  contemporary  writers  and  a  brief  argument 
in  favor  of  the  principle. 
(From  Ready  References,  page  128.) 
Note. — Prof.  A.  Hinderkoper,  a  German  writer,  says : 
"In  the  second  and  third  centuries  every  branch  and  division 
of  the  Christian  church,  so  far  as  their  records  enable  us  to 
judge,  believed  that  Christ  preached  to  the  departed  spirits." — 
"Haley's  Discrepancies  of  the  Bible." 
Bishop  Alford  says:  "I  understand  these  words  (I  Peter 
iii,  19)  to  say  that  our  Lord  in  his  disembodied  state,  did  go 
to  the  place  of  detention  of  departed  spirits,  and  did  there 
announce  his  work  of  redemption ;  preach  salvation  in  fact,  to 
the  disembodied  spirits  of  those  who  refused  to  obey  the  voice 
of  God  when  the  judgment  of  the  flood  was  hanging  over 
them." 
"While  there  are  many  professors  of  theology  who  attempt 
to  explain  away  the  words  of  Peter,  or  deny  their  evident