[Vol24 | February 1937 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Guide | Title: Julia Ward Howe Biography (Continued)]

LESSON DEPARTMENT 121
She engaged the best caterer in New York, the most fashionable musicians, and even hired a splendid cut-glass chandelier to supplement the sober lighting of the yellow drawing-room.
The evening of the party Mr. Ward stepped into the group and discovered "as brilliant a gathering as could have been found in any other of the great houses of New York." If he was amazed or annoyed he concealed it and met the guests with "charming courtesy."
When the party was over Julia's brothers gathered about her asking that they be allowed to go to her father on her behalf, but she insisted that it was her place to see him. She sought and found him alone. She could not speak, nor was it necessary that she should. He told her "gravely" that her idea of a few friends and his was very different, that "he was sorry that she had not consulted him more freely, and begged that in the future she would do so. Then he kissed her good-night with his usual tenderness and it was over."
Then followed days when there were many admirers. An intimate friend speaking of this time said: "Louisa had her admirers, and Annie had hers; but when the men saw your mother they just flopped!" She was "compassionate" with her suitors but she at least could not marry them all, "so she sang duets with one, read German with another, and Anglo-Saxon with a third."
The United States was struggling with a financial panic in 1836-1837. It called for all the strength that men had. Mr. Ward labored incessantly to save the honor of the banks of New York; but disaster came and the banks were obliged "to suspend specie payments." Still Samuel Ward was not a man to waste time in vain regrets. He began at once to arrange things so that the banks could resume without unnecessary delay. This was accomplished in a year's time, through the Bank of England granting a loan of nearly five million dollars in gold. Mrs. Howe never forgot the afternoon when her brother Sam came into her study from Wall Street and cried: "Julia, men have been going up and down the office stairs all day long, carrying little wooden kegs of gold on their backs marked 'Prime Ward and King' and filled with English gold!"
The honor of New York State was preserved through the English gold. The fact that Mr. Ward procured the loan "was the greatest asset in her inheritance from the old firm," Mrs. Howe said.
In October, 1839, the beloved father passed away—that father who had fought so hard for financial honor, who had nurtured his children with great devotion if somewhat strictly through his long widowerhood. "Julia was with him when he died, his hand in hers." Her love for her father was most constant and ceased only with her life. Yearly she recorded his birthday in her diary never failing to add words "of tender remembrance."
In the summer of 1842 the Ward sisters were in a cottage near Boston. With them was a friend, Mary Ward, who was no relation but had been betrothed to their brother Henry. Here they often received visits from Charles Sumner and Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. Julia had heard of Mr. Howe's wonderful feat in educating Laura Bridgman. The young women were invited by their friends from Boston to visit the Perkins Institution for the blind, over which Mr. Howe had been director for nine years. As they walked about the institution, says Julia,

Mr. Sumner looked out of the window and said: "Oh! Here comes Howe on his black horse." She looked out, she says, and saw "A noble rider on a noble steed."
Their acquaintance ripened into good will and during the winter of 1843 they became engaged. Mr. Howe is described as having a "slender military figure, jet-black hair, keen blue eyes" and a "brilliant complexion."
To this we add a picture of their courting days, from a private journal of the time. "I walked down Broadway with all the fashion and met the pretty blue-stocking, Miss Julia Ward, with her admirer, Dr. Howe, just home from Europe. She had on a blue satin cloak and a white muslin dress... They say she dreams in Italian and quotes French verse."
Of special interest is Mr. Sumner's letter to her, written after he had learned of her engagement. Mr. Sumner wrote: "Howe has told me, with eyes flashing with joy, that you have received his love. May God make you happy in his heart, as I know he will be happy in yours! A truer heart was never offered to woman. I know him well. I know the depth, strength, and constancy of his affections, as the whole world knows the beauty of his life and character. And oh! how I rejoice that these are all to mingle in loving harmony with your great gifts of heart and mind. God bless you! God bless you both! You will strengthen each other for the duties of life; and the most beautiful happiness of life shall be yours—that derived from inextinguishable mutual love, and from the consciousness of duty done."
"You have accepted my dear Howe as your lover; pray let me ever be

Your most affectionate friend,
Charles Sumner."
To her brother Sam who had married into the Astor family she wrote: "The Chevalier says truly—I am the captive of his bow and spear. His true devotion has won me from the world, and from myself. The past is already fading from my sight; already, I begin to live with him in the future, which shall be as calmly bright as true love can make it. I am perfectly satisfied to sacrifice to one so noble and earnest the day dreams of my youth. He will make life more beautiful to me than a dream."
The wedding took place at her brother Samuel Ward's home on April 23, 1843. Ten days later the bride and groom sailed for Europe. Horace Mann and his bride, Mary Peabody, sister of Mrs. Nathaniel Hawthorne, were on the same boat.
Mrs. Howe wrote: She never should forget the stay in London. "Dr. Howe's reputation preceded him and every reader of 'Dickens' American Notes' was eager to meet the man who had brought a soul out of prison." Charles Dickens had taken them out sightseeing, and Sidney Smith had been very kind. Sydney Smith "calls Howe 'Prometheus,' and says that he gave a soul an inanimate body."

Questions
1. To what forces do you attribute Mr. Ward's aversion to the theatre? Why was his daughter not given an opportunity for more social contacts at home and away from home?
2. Do you think Julia solely at fault for the elaborate party given in her father's home? Do you think her father should share part of the blame? Discuss the situation as a problem in rearing children.