[Vol24 | February 1937 | Sequence: 35 | Category: Guide | Title: How to Administer Rewards and Punishments]

Child Guidance
Lesson 7
HOW TO ADMINISTER REWARDS AND PUNISHMENTS

FEW policies in child guidance are more difficult to settle on than what to do about punishment. Some parents lay great store by the doctrine "Spare the rod and spoil the child." Others base all their hope on love and forgiveness, and on allowing the child complete freedom. In recent years, our attitude has swung toward the latter point of view, which William James called "soft pedagogy." Probably the answer is not yet, and the proper place of punishment may be more clearly recognized in the future. Certainly too little discipline and too much coddling frequently defeats the mother's fine intentions of rearing her child into a happy adult. On the other hand, there can be no doubt that the use of corporal punishment is to be discouraged in general. This is not because it is never of value, but because it is so difficult for parents to properly determine when and how it should be used.

Felix Adler claims corporal punishment makes criminals, and we often do find in the histories of delinquents that flogging is the principal resort of the parents in disciplining the child. Yet in other cases we find that the most striking factor contributing to incorrigibility is the utter lack of any effort on the part of the parents to correct the behavior of their children. Under the latter kind of treatment, misbehavior often sprouts like weeds in an uncultivated garden.

In the psychological literature on learning, we always have with us some attempt to describe or explain why we retain successful acts and eliminate unsuccessful ones. Thorndike, in his famous work on educational psychology in 1914, taught the doctrine that successful acts are retained because they are more satisfying or more pleasurable and that unsuccessful ones are eliminated because they are annoying or unpleasant. Somehow the satisfyingness or unsatisfyingness were thought to "stamp in" the right act and "stamp out" the wrong one respectively. This was called the "law of effect." It meant that whether the effect of the act is pleasant or unpleasant determines whether it will be retained or not. This "law" has been under much fire in recent years, because of certain issues that shall not take space to discuss here. A later version of the doctrine, based on much experimentation, holds that the effect of an act, or its consequences, may consist simply in knowing what the result is, regardless of whether it is pleasant or not. It is now fairly well agreed that learning does not take place without this knowledge of the effect of the separate acts involved. Much of the learning of children in social relations, and moral as well, is extremely slow because the effects of the acts are not clearly seen. Manipulating the social environment does not yield such clear effects of acts as does manipulating a toy automobile.

Thorndike has recently given evidence that seems to indicate that rewards lead to learning and that punishments have very little to do with it. We build habits out of the acts that seem to lead us most directly to our goals. Punished acts, according to Thorndike, are not eliminated by the punishment itself but are selected out by substitution of right acts with their rewards.

Animals, such as white rats, will not learn to tread a maze properly if they are not motivated by some strong urge such as hunger. If food is not found at the end of the hungry rat's quest, it doesn't learn the maze even though it is permitted to explore the maze all it pleases. When the reward is found without exception, the rat learns a complicated maze in the course of thirty or forty trials, so well that it makes no error.

The goal seeking of the small child is much the same. If the result obtained is not agreeable to him he is not likely to persist in that act. Moreover, the reward must follow immediately after or it may lose its connection with the right act. Here the immature child is caught in a dilemma: much of the routine he is expected to follow doesn't seem to make sense. The parent then becomes tempted to hold out candy, stories, toys, and other rewards to bribe the child into doing what should be done for its own sake. Recently a mother reported that her child would not attend to his toilet unless she gave him candy at the same time.

Perhaps younger children do need more than older ones such extrinsic rewards. As the child grows, he can be motivated more and more by remote incentives such as social approval, self-respect, and other less apparent values that accrue from a well regulated life.

Parents make two general uses of rewards: first and most commonly, to get things done; second, to teach the child proper habits. The first method teaches the child to do what is required for the sake of rewards which have no relation to the act. The unhappy result is that unless an artificial goal is set up thereafter, the act is not done.

The second use of rewards requires deep insight into what is going on in the child's mind. The reward is then carefully calculated to grow out of the act as a natural consequence. The child who has done a good job of washing his face