[Vol24 | February 1937 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Guide | Title: Social Progress (Continued - Second Classification)]

In the second classification, progress is measured by man's control over physical nature. His comforts and scientific progress in life are measured according to his increasing ability to bend nature to his ends instead of adapting himself to its rigors and unmodified necessities. But, the extent to which he has adapted his great utilization of nature's gifts to the welfare of all mankind reveals how far he has moved towards social progress. For scientific progress is not identical with social progress and does not necessarily imply social progress. In fact, the two are quite separate. Only so far as the marvelous results which have been accomplished in adapting nature to man's needs have been devoted to the benefit of all mankind can a nation be said to have advanced towards social progress. Such progress presupposes a certain amount of idealism; therefore a combination of such idealism with scientific knowledge is necessary to the general progress of humanity.

Natural energy, such as water power and electricity have been captured and reduced to man's needs. Great irrigation projects have been devised. The discovery of radium has transformed medical treatment. Other scientific discoveries have done much for the preservation of health and the prolongation of life. Research in chemistry has contributed greatly to industrial efficiency, and has thus added to the comfort of life. Each instance tells the story of increased control over natural phenomena. Any nation is civilized only to the extent that man has mastered nature and turned it to his use. And again, it has achieved social progress only to the extent that these benefits are devoted to all its members.

All the above factors are units on the measuring stick of human progress. Their test is proved by time in terms of human welfare and greater happiness.

The second purpose of this lesson directs attention to the advancement of social progress through the improvement of those conditions over which each individual has control.

The development of a sound progressive system of education is one of the first essentials. Each generation must be brought into touch with the social inheritance of the race. But the transmission of the cumulative knowledge of the past is but one part of the responsibility of education. It has been pointed out that the improvement of life demands the growth of knowledge and its proper utilization. A continual readjustment of education to fit social needs is essential. It must always aim toward moralizing life. The mind must be liberated from ignorance, intolerance, and social prejudice.

The Lord has said: "For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." (P. of G. P., Moses 1:39) Such a goal is the ultimate end of all progress. As members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints our responsibility is doubly great. Not only are we obligated to maintain the social achievements contributed by civilization, but in addition our goal is set for the "eternal life and immortality" of all mankind. Such ideology carries increased obligations and duties to church members. Each member of the Church should strive to promote and harmonize the finest intellectual, cultural, and economic achievements of the race. He should advance the spiritual salvation of all through a more meaningful participation in the ordinances and principles of the gospel. To this end the effectiveness of one's actions must be tested by altruistic motives. He should cooperate with the social achievements of the race and be active in promoting the progress of the church in its march toward its goal. There is probably not a ward in the church but what needs more help in promoting social ideals.

Intelligent leadership toward goals which do not get lost in the multitude of daily tasks is called for. More religious toleration, more altruism, more spirituality is needed at home and at the church gathering, as well as in the world at large.

Activities
Outline a plan by which you would try to overcome some of the obstacles to social progress in your own ward or community.
In most communities many people are apathetic toward community enterprises and reform movements. Devise a scheme for getting people in your community interested in some needed project.
Compare the present characteristics and achievements of your community with conditions of from ten to fifteen years ago. On the basis of the comparison decide if the community has been as progressive as it should have been.