[Vol24 | February 1937 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Teachers' Topic]

Teachers' Topic (For April) THE PHARISEE AND THE PUBLICAN Luke 18:9-14 ND he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and despised others: "Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a publican. "The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee, that I am not as other men are, extortioners 118 unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. "I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. "And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner. "I say unto you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other: for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted." This was spoken to or about certain persons who trusted in themselves, that they were righteous. The two worshipers were taken from the most distinguished and the most despised classes of the Jews, a Pharisee and a publican. The Pharisees were a prominent religious sect among the Jews. They felt themselves to be separated from other men and from the unclean in their own nation. They were respected as citizens of high standing. They were pious observers of the law and this strict adherence to small points often led to hypocrisy and self-glorification. Christ found on many occasions much to condemn in their actions and their attitudes toward others. The publicans were collectors of taxes for the government. They leased certain districts and had to raise a certain amount of money from them. It was necessary to impose extra taxes in order to get pay for their own services. As a result they were very unpopular.
The time was a special hour of prayer for the Israelites and all had the privilege of the temple. The Pharisee drew himself apart from the crowd and began "I thank thee." He numbered his virtues and good deeds. The publican was the picture of humility. He stood "afar off," his prayer was one of confession and entreaty. The Lord drew from the parable the suitable lesson that the proud shall be humbled and the humble exalted.
This lesson of humility of heart is the chief end of the parable. It brings peace and love to ourselves and justification in the sight of God. The "I say unto you" makes it clear that humility is an indispensable virtue.
The immediate purpose of the parable of the Pharisee and the Publican was to denounce the false profession of the Pharisee and to approve the sincerity and toleration of the publican. Papini in his "Life of Christ" says, "Sinners when they recognize the evil which is in their hearts and abjure it with true humility, are nearer to the kingdom than pious men who daub themselves with praise of their own piety."
Humility is not self depreciation or lack of enthusiasm. One may be dignified and courageous and still humble.
"He that is down needs fear no fall, He that is low, no pride; He that is humble ever shall Have God to be his guide."
LESSON DEPARTMENT 119