[Vol8 | May 1921 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman SAMOAN RELIEF SOCIETY ITEMS Relief Society organizations throughout Zion and the world are an integral part of the work of the gospel; and the Society serves its high purpose in the Samoan Mission, as we presume it does in other proselyting fields. Indeed, without the efforts of the sisters in the Church here, we fear that our cause would lack much of its prestige and vitality. To illustrate how far reaching is the influence of our Society work and to what extent is its merits recognized by other sects, we need only to draw attention to recent occurrence in the "London Mission Society Church," the strongest sect in this Samoan group. In the ninety years since its establishment in Samoa (being established here the very year that our Church was organized, that is, 1830), this sect has interpreted Paul's admonition for "woman to hold silence in church," so as to preclude its female members from taking any active part in church work. But noting the very excellent labors of our Samoan Relief Society sisters as they faithfully went about the performance of their various activities, they decided in one of their big annual conventions not many months since, to organize their women into groups patterned after the "Mormon Relief Society," and they plainly said so. It is a wonderful vindication of the divine work of the Prophet Joseph, that he, a lone individual practically fighting -
 his battle for truth without other assistance than his own integrity and his Heavenly Father's inspiration and revelation, should have been able to establish a perfect woman's organization which the world with all its learning has failed to equal and can only approach it in effectiveness and scope through the great work of the Relief Society. Our Lamanite sisters here go about their errands of mercy and kindness in the spirit which has distinguished the "Mormon" Relief Societies above any mere charitable or war organization yet instituted. They are to be found in the home of suffering and affliction as soon as they learn there is need of a loving act or a sympathetic word; theirs are the hands which lay out the remains of the deceased, prepare the last burial robes and keep the death vigil; to the home of the needy they delight to carry various necessities, sometimes home grown fruits or delicaies and again it may be purchased from stores or shops; if a brother or sister be confined in a hospital for weary weeks of convalescing, thither the sisters frequently go with a variety of food and flowers to make life brighter and lighter. And greatest of all, their attention is now centered more upon Temple work and funds are being raised to aid in carrying on the work for their dead. Regular weekly meetings are held, in which the procedure is similar to that at home. The uniform text book now studied is the Book of Mormon, and it is discussed each week with interest, developing stronger testimonies as the years go on. For thirty-two years now our Church has been established in Samoa but it has not been possible till just now to establish the Relief Society in Apia, the chief seaport of the islands, and practically the only place where foreigners reside. We have Societies in other places, of course. Mugh bitterness of late has cropped out there, and other churches have forbidden their members to attend "Mormon" services. We first held Sunday evening meetings and so did they as was usual. But, to our surprise, when we began Monday night services as a preferable night, lo and behold, in order to defeat our purposes, they are now holding church Monday night. They even appealed to the American Consul to have Sister Laulii, our faithful saint at whose home meetings are held, and who married an American, (now deceased) warned that she was creating too much disturbance. The consul visited her, was convinced of her rights, and told her to go ahead. So the way was opened by the Lord, and last Sunday we organized the Relief Society in Apia, with Laulii as president. In other ways the work is expanding and we are very hopeful of the future. Thirza A. Adams. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 299 Teton Stake & On March 13, 1921, the Relief Societies of the Teton stake held a very successful and interesting conference. A program of duets, quartets, and anthems, together with the following subjects were given: The co-operation of the Relief Society with the Priesthood in genealogical work; temple marriages, proper conduct, and clothing. The subjects were treated in a general way, as well as with reference to local conditions. The attendance was very good. Juarez Stake A stake conference was held in Colonia Juarez in February. A comprehensive report of the work of the stake was given by President Fanny C. Harper, who expressed appreciation for the devotion of the Relief Society women, calling attention to the fact that the Mexican members are not behind their sisters in Relief Society activities. They contribute to charity, pay their membership and stake dues and take care of their record and accounts, using the teachers' books and the ward record books. Ward reports were given as follows: Juarez, Jane R. Spillsbury; Dublan, reported by Mrs. Bertha Pratt; Pacheco, reported by Mrs, Sarah Lunt; Garcia, reported by Mrs. Whetten. These presidents called attention to the splendid charity work being done, the devotion of the district teachers, the interesting work meetings held, and of entertainments given, including dramatics. Mrs. Maggie I. Bentley spoke on the responsibility of L. D. S. Women to home, to school, to church, and to community. Counselors Agnes Whetten and Mollie Skousen spoke of the duties of the Relief Society women, and of the blessings which follow those who are willing to give service in this organization. President J. C. Bentley and counselors John Whetten and Albert. Wagner were in attendance, and gave addresses which were very encouraging to the Relief Society workers. Appreciation was expressed for the splendid spirit accompanying all phases of the work, and for the apparent desire on the part of the members of accomplishing good through the organization. Subjects were outlined for the district teachers to discuss while visiting families, Montpelier Stake The Stake Relief Society officers and board mente recently entertained at a get-acquainted social in honor of the Ward Relief Society officers and partners. Special guests were the stake presidency, and the stake officers of the Sunday school, Mutual Improvement Association, Primary Assoviation, and Religion Class. Social games and old time dances were indulged in, and refreshments were served. During the month of February 
 four conventions or district meetings were held in Montpelier stake. Three of these conventions comprised three wards, and one comprised two wards. Meetings began at 11 o'clock a. M. Relief Society lessons were given, also musical selections and short talks by stake officers. After luncheon, a social hour was enjoyed. Ogden Stake — On December 27, 1920, the Ogden stake Relief Society was reorganized. This action was made necessary because of the passing of Mrs. Isabelle B. Foulger, who had presided over the Relief Societies of Ogden stake for a number of years. The following officers were appointed: president, Mrs. Ida M. Treseder; counselors, Mrs. Emma A. Jensen, and Mrs. Kate F. Woodbury. Mrs. Elizabeth M. Goddard was retained as secretary and treasurer. Board members, Mrs. Elizabeth H. Ipsen and Mrs. Lydia S. Merrill. Anniversary Day In practically all the wards of the Church, and in the missions, March 17 was celebrated with appropriate exercises. It was 79 years on that day since the Relief Society was organized, and the celebration of that event included historical sketches, tableaux, pageants, plays, readings, addresses, reminiscences, cantatas, etc., etc. In Brigham City the five wards joined together in a program which consisted of a pageant with the following special features: organization of the Relief Society in 1842; the gathering of wheat; silk culture; teachers' work; and accompanying these features were appropriate songs and other musical numbers. Among those representing early characters in the work* was Mr, Calvin W. Richards, who represented his father, Willard Richards. The Malad stake reunion was held in the Malad stake tabernacle on March 17. An excelient program was given, followed by a banquet. The tables were daintily spread, and the decorations were green and white, with shamrock place-cards and blooming shamrocks. The serving committee consisted of young Relief Society members from 25 to 30 years of age. The celebration ended with a dancing party in the evening. Members from the Washakie Indian organization were in attendance, dressed in their very best. Three of the older women sang a song in their own language, while the young women sang "Somewhere the sun is shining." These women also took part in the dancing and were as graceful as any of their sisters. The first and second ward Relief Societies of Salina entertained all Relief Society members of North Sevier stake with their partners, the object being to get better acquainted NOTES FROM THE FIELD 301 with the members of the new stake. The entertainment began at 2 p. M. A very interesting program, consisting of musical numbers, readings, historical sketches, and encouraging talks were given, after which luncheon was served. The Relief Society women of Salina were highly complimented on_ this splendid entertainment. In the St. George stake Relief Society programs were given on Wednesday, March 16. For years the St. George stake Relief Society has reserved the 17 of March as their general Relief Society temple day, so this year being -a repetition of the past, the day was spent in the temple by a large number of workers who gave this service to the temple. March 17 was also "Good Roads Day" in St. George, set aside by the mayor to improve some of the streets. The Relief Society members furnished luncheon for those who worked on the road. In the St. Joseph stake a stake Relief Society conference and social was held on March 17, annual day. This conference was a climax to the ward conferences which had just previously been held in all of the twenty wards of the stake. There was a large attendance of women from all over the stake, and the interest was intense throughout. The stake presidency, eight high councilmen, seven bishops, and a number of others, were present. The morning session was devoted entirely to the sayings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, while the afternoon was devoted" to biographical sketches of the five general presidents of the Relief Society, with a historical sketch of the organization of the St. Joseph stake. In connection with the program, delightful and appropriate musical numbers were given. In Farmington, March 17 was celebrated as an anniversary day and ward reunion combined. After the close of a very interesting program, a luncheon was served, cafeteria style, to 250. In the evening a dancing party was held. Bear River Stake. On February 20, a character ball was given by the Relief Society women, and proved to be one of the most interesting entertainments ever given in the stake. There was a splendid group of pioneers, pilgrims, Indians, with their chiefs, colonial characters, including George and Martha Washington, Church characters, including President Brigham Young and President Emmeline B. Wells. ' Bear Lake Stake. At the last meeting of the stake and local officers' and members the literary lesson, "Come, come, ye Saints" was given. After the lecture and discussion, a quartet sang the hymn, and a little pageant was given, depicting the Pioneers. In the visiting 302 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE teachers' department, the following subjects have been outlined and printed on cards for the use of the teachers: February, reverence; March, loyalty to priesthood; April, prayer; May, the sabbath; June, safeguarding the young. Under the subject of prayer is given the following outline: (A) Prayer a commandment of God, Doc. And Cov. 68:28. (B) A safeguard against sin, Doc. And Cov. 61:39. (C) Reward of prayer, Doc. And Cov. 19:38; 61:37. (D) Family prayer: 1. Promotes family unity; 2. Developes faith. 3. Brings blessings of heaven. (E) Secret prayer: 1. Lifting of burden; 2. Strength in time of need; 3. Guidance temporally as well as spiritually. Pray rather than say prayers. Liberty Stake. In the Liberty stake, in Salt Lake City, there is a department working in the interest of those who are home bound, throughout the stake. The Stake Board member, in charge of this work, is assisted by a group of women whose special duty it is to carry comfort and cheer to those who through illness or old age, are confined to their homes. This work is a stake activity and is arranged so that it interferes in no way with the regular work being done in the wards. Following is a report of the activities of the stake committee during 1921: Meetings held at the county infirmary, 3; Hours spent in visiting home bound members, 856; Home bound members died during 1920, 11; Cash received from the wards, $11; Cash received from private parties, $19.05; Jellies received from wards, 140 glasses; contributions from business men for county infirmary: oranges, 1 box; cake, 15 pounds; paper bags, 150; apples, 1 box; candy, 10 pounds. Cash disbursed: Jewish Relief Fund, $5; flowers, $8; to home bound members, $6.50, to county infirmary on New Year's Day, 120 bags, each containing a glass of jelly, an ora an apple, cake and candy. Wasatch Stake. At the Ideal theatre in Heber City, the Relief Sagi of Wasatch stake put on a pageant featuring the journey of the Pioneers from Natrvoo to Salt Lake City, and especially the hymn, "Come, come, ye Saints." The pageant was witnessed by about five hundred people who expressed themselves as thoroughly enjoying the entertainment. The pageant was arranged and managed by the following members of the Wasatch stake beard: Mrs. Eliza Rasburn, Mrs. Elizabeth McDonald, Mrs. Eva Jensen.