[Vol8 | May 1921 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: The Atonement John G. McQuarrie]

The Atonement John G. McQuarrie 1 have been asked to discuss the subject of the atonement of Jesus Christ, not particularly the scriptural phase, which states it as an accomplished fact, but rather to treat the subject from the viewpoint of reason, and then to show a necessity and justification for it. When we consider any of the fundamentals of life, whether we study the cells which go to make up the plants, or the cells whick go to make the animals, or try to decipher those subtle, elusive agencies at work in forming the lower and simpler forms into the higher more complex and more beautiful expressions of life, we soon discover that we are approaching problems which we cannot tully solve. We may never in mortality solve the real mystery of life, yet the study of biology has helped us to more profitably cooperate with nature by revealing many of the unvarying laws upon which desired results are predicated. So, too, in approaching this subject of the atonement, I do not expect to solve the deep-hidden mystery, but rather to find within the realm of our own experience, sufficient justification for it. So that even a doubting Thomas may be persuaded to move forward, with reasonable assurance that he will find joy and profit by willingly cooperating with the Master in his plan for the redemption of mankind. That some such exposition or analysis is needed must be evident as soon as we try to find a reason, outside of authoritative obedience, for either the vicarious work our people are doing for the dead, or the individual conformity to certain principles and ordinances required of the living. The gospel, as a philosophy of life, rests on two facts, the fall of man and the atonement of Jesus Christ; but since we cannot build a logical philosophy on two mysteries, we must admit them as possible facts in order to have a basis for further reasoning. That gives us a working hypothesis. If we say that in some mysterious way man fell and in some mysterious way Christ atoned for the sin, we can just as logically say that in some mysterious way man is saved by the operation, either by grace, election, or foreordination, as to claim the necessity of conforming to a certain number of other ordinances or principles. In order to prove the necessity of any factor in any given scheme or plan we must admit in the premises of the argument THE ATONEMENT 285 the necessity of attaining the object or accomplishing the purpose for which the plan hasbeen designed. Without going into a discussion of the fall, let us admit, without argument, that man, if not fallen, was, at the time of the Messiah's Advent, in a condition far below his possibilities. Let us also admit that it is necesary for the race to avoid a state of misery and reach a state of happiness, and that it was the purpose of the atonement to make possible the attainment of the latter condition. The theological terms for the two states are hell and heaven. We will furher admit that it was God's purpose to bring about through the mission and atonement of Jesus the Christ, the complete happiness of all of his children. With this object of the atonement well settled in our minds, let us ask the question: On what does the happiness of the world depend? The worldly idea seems to have been that the great object could be attained through technical knowledge, material wealth, or physical and political power. But such agencies are only the tools of life and so far as happiness is concerned they have often marred, and have never made it complete. Probably the best answer that could be given the question is: The happiness of the world is determined by the character of the people. Character is a broad term. It may include the illuminating factor of knowledge. It may utilize such tools as wealth, and power to make environment harmonize with the taste or needs, according to the degree of development; but character, is the great determining acquirement for man's success and happiness. In order that the masses of humanity, who are steeped in ignorance, sin and superstition, and beset by false ideals and selfish longing, might recognize and acquire this thing we call character what factors or agencies would be necessary? In our efforts to become proficient in certain departments of knowledge, such as music, art, science, etc., we have found that we need: (1) standards which will help us to discover the goal and by which we may measure our approach toward it, (2) also examples and teachers to assist the beginner in following the selected course, (3) the general rules or laws by which the particular study may be made workable. In any such scheme of educational cooperation it is logical and reasonable to suppose that the college or institute which we attend must furnish the standards, supply the examples, and teach, or at least lay down, the several fundamental rules and laws which must be learned or mastered. The logical position of the student is to study the subject and then to apply the rules— in order to make the art or science his own. 
 Now, in order that man might acquire a true character, would it. Not be reasonable, in fact necessary, for him to discover or choose a true standard or ideal, by which to measure his own actions, and to find an example to interpret this standard and ideal in terms of human activities? Then he must find some teacher or guide who will outline the laws and rules to be observed, in order that he might make this perfect character his aim and his ideal. We do not need to take anything for granted or to do any guessing in answering this question. We have the written history of ideal principles of nearly six thousand years from which to draw our conclusions. But until such a personal standard was revealed through Jesus Christ, the mystery of a true character remained as Paul testified, "hid in God from the beginning." Man made little progress toward discovering it. The world was full of false standards and false ideals, but no true one personal standard had ever been portrayed. All the Old Testament characters, all the pagan gods were faulty and showed human weakness here and there. Man had never conceived a perfect human character. He could not do so, for the world is bounded by what we don't know. The tropic savage cannot conceive of snow and ice. Every superstructure, whether social, ethical or political, built on the worldly ideal of greatness was, "like the house built on the sand" which tumbled to ruin, carrying down in the fall, king and serfs, slave and master, priest and soldier alike. The worldly idea of greatness in character whether applied to an individual or to a nation, was might, force, power to rule. Humility was weakness, service was menial. When the Master came in the meridian of: time he made known the dignity of service, the power of humility, and that happiness is an abiding influence which above is found along the line of self-sacrifice instead of in self-gratification. He set up for the world the perfect standard for human character. We have reached then reason number one for Christ's mission. Of course, we cannot arrive at the absolute in any process of reasoning, we cannot determine what might eventually have transpired, if certain events had not occurred; but with the history of the past before us, and with what we know of human strength and weakness, human success and failure we may ask. (1) should the world have waited and suffered until through purely human agencies, a true ideal was evolved or a perfect character discovered? Or shall we conclude that it was necessary for God to reveal the standard character in the way he chose to do. Perfection was not in man, it centered in God. Therefore, a mortal man could not have reflected or represented the Divine character, neither could God in his immortal state THE ATONEMENT 287 shave interpreted his own character in terms of human activities. Therefore there was the necessity of just such a personality that Christ disclosed himself to be, half mortal, half divine, '""The Only Begotten of the Father," the Son of Man and the Son of God, a being possessing a mortal tabernacle, and a divine nature, coming on earth as the divine standard of character. The importance of the example set by Jesus Christ, and that he is the great example of the race, is generally admitted by well informed men regardless of their church affiliation or non-affiliation; but the point I want to make clear is this: that it was necessary for some one more than a Buddha, a Mohammed, a Confucius, or a Moses to perform this mission. No one but the Christ the Son of God could have accomplished it. If we admit the necessity of his example for mortals, we next ask why was the great sacrifice necessary? In the first place it was necessary in order to complete the example. In considering the effect of example there is a great moral value in the common-place, but no stimulus. We need the stimulus of the definite heroic action. If we think for a moment of the difficulty men have had in "trying to follow in his steps' and teach the principles he taught, we shall at once appreciate the fact that he not only showed man how to live, but also how to die. The uplifting of humanity is such a stupendous, continuous task, including the fight against false standards, old traditions, vain philosophies, base superstitions, usurped class privileges, and selfishness in all its gilded forms, that it requires more than an ideal, it needs an example, and rules of conduct to make it effective. It requires organization, power, authority, control. There are but two principles of power and control. One is force, the other love. One operates from without, the other from within. One restrains the arm, the other purifies the heart. One enslaves, the other makes free. Force, though often tried, has always failed. Love we can safely assume, was the only law that would fit into this scheme of world redemption. But love, unlike force, cannot be applied through physical agencies such as armies, navies, prisons, etc. There is no "open sesame" word, no arbitrary powre which can call this subtle, mysterious system of reciprocal chords into being. We know less about this experienced thing we call love, than we do about electricity. We cannot hope to define it. The best we can do is to observe the condition which generates it, get connected up with the dynamo and witness the illumination. Patriotism is a love of the fathers, the principles for which they stood. Have you ever felt it? What condition established ' 
 the tie of sympathy between the fathers of the Revolution and us, their natural or adopted children? There is a love which dutiful children feel for benevolent parents. Have you ever felt it? There is a love which parents have for their children. Have you experienced it? If so, we can probably draw from our mutual experiences this conclusion, that the strongest, most enduring reciprocal ties of love are developed only by and through dependence, vicarious work, and sacrifice. Try to imagine our devotion to principle, our appreciation of liberty, our love of the Father who bequeathed them, if no sacrifice had ever been made. Try to imagine the unselfish sacrifices made by the Revolutionary fathers, that high-born courage and faith which sustained them through years of struggle, if they themselves had not felt vicariously that the fate of their children and the future of the unborn was included in their cause! Try to imagine without an example before you being made responsible for the control of a family, and the development of the children until the gulf between weakness and strength, ignorance and knowledge, innocence and virtue, should all close up so that your children to you might become not only interesting but companionable. Then imagine eliminating the conditions of dependence on 'the part of those children and the necessity of sacrifice on the part of yourself, with no opportunity to do for them the things they could not do for themselves! Under such conditions imagine circumstances arising in the home where the strong stimulus of parental example to heroic action may be necessary or where the strong parental restraint against determined but misguided desire could not be used! Could you lay hold of the cords of love and feel sure that they were strong enough to stand the strain? Sacrifice is not only the means of developing love, but it is the only means of proving it. England at present feels very solicitous for the good of Ireland; she would like her to become a willing cooperator and interested factor in building the British Empire. But when Ireland was conquered and dependent, England never made a sacrifice which would prove to Ireland England's unselfish interest in Ireland's welfare; now it is too late. On the other hand, the United States did do for helpless Cuba what she could not do for herself. The sacrifice made in blood and treasure put the high purpose of the Government beyond question. The magnanimity shown will command from Cuba the services of friendship when the force of armies and navies might fail. God so loved the world that he gave his Only Begotten Son that whosoever believed in him might not perish but have everlasting life. The world was in a condition from which it THE ATONEMENT 289 could not extricate itself. Christ was willing to perform the vicarious work. He made a sacrifice which put his love beyond question and enabled him to quicken in the hearts of men the eternal law of love by mean$ of which he will eventually bring them all to him and make them feel the joy of fellowship in his Father's family. He proved his love by his death. That the death of Jesus Christ was necessary to complete his example and that some such great sacrifice was necessary to establish confidence and awaken love, can be proved from our own experience: but the most difficult problem for reason to grasp is the central and most vital phase of the Great Act: Grace! If the world stands under the condemnation of sin, why should the shedding of Christ's blood in justice effect any relief? Why should the penalty paid by one be carried over to and relieve another? In order to get our bearing, let us first define the terms which enter as prime factors into the problem. What is law? Hooker says, "Of law no less can be acknowledged than that her voice is the harmony of the world." Sin, therefore, is the discord of the world. Sin has an outward and an inward effect; the inward affecting the life of the individual and the outward affecting the life of his fellow man. Penalty is the natural consequence endured by the person who breaks the law or the specific price he must pay to compensate the injury done to others. Atonement signifies making restitution, paving penalty, bringing ourselves into accord, and in the sense we are now using the term it indicates vicarious work. Justice is the principle of rectitude and just dealings of men with one another. It is that virtue which enables men to distinguish and maintain the proper relationship between law and penalty, keeping in mind the object of law and the purpose of penalty, Aristotle held justice to be the principle of virtue toward others, and he distinguished between the justice of equity, which ' considers the purpose of harmony, and the mere legality of an action. Mercy signifies the forebearance from inflicting a harm or exacting a penalty when one has the legal right or power to inflict it. It is the compassionate treatment of an offender. Bacon says, "Examples of justice must be made for terror to some, and examples of mercy for comfort to others." If, from the point of equity we study law, and penalty, and justice and mercy, with restitution as their-object—we shall find them equally just and necessary. Law is the finger board directing us on that path which leads to harmony, liberty, and mutual enjoyment. 290 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Penalty warns us that we are out of the true course. Its object and effect is to force us back before the final crash comes that would wreck our lives, and destroy the happiness of others. By experiencing penalty we may determine the distance we are from the path we should follow; but when this result has been accomplished, penalty has served its main purpose, no matter who has paid it, whether paid by the sinner or by someone who is willing to suffer that the sinner may escape. The object of justice is to restore order and happiness, but what we shall here call legal justice, could not accomplish this worthy object, simply with the cold unfeeling operation of human law and human penalty, because penalty with its two-fold effect soon places the persistent law-breaker in a condition of helplessness, a condition where he has not the power either to repair the injury he has done to himself or others. He might be annihilated, but annihilation would not restore the happiness of the individual himself nor bring restitution or order where his actions had wrought discord and injury. Law and penalty alone would defeat themselves. 'But no principle is true in itself; it is true only as it is truly related to other things. Justice could not be justice, taken alone; only when associated with mercy can it accomplish its purpose, or even be understood. The Jews had their cities of refuge and their scape-goat and the paschal lamb itself was the symbol of a vicarious atonement. Conversely, mercy without justice would cease to be mercy, because if an individual could not demand the payment of a debt, he could not extend mercy in forgiving it. If law and penalty did not force the evil doer to the very end of his resources, he might never realize his true condition, but when he has been brought to a realization of his utter dependence, and the obligation he is under to the injured one or to the society whose laws he has broken; when he realizes that the course he has followed has brought him to the very antipodes of happiness, justice has accomplished all that is possible for it to do, working alone. She has brought the individual to realize his dependence, a condition necessary to commence development; but justice must now allow mercy to take up her work. Some strong person who has the love of God and humani¢« in his heart and who has the power to do so, is willing, in ordes to save a soul, to undertake the task of vicarious atonement. He satisfies the demands of justice. He pays the penalty of sin that the sinner may measure the law he has broken by the price that was paid by his friend for his sake. If you had carried a load of debt for years, and old age found you unable even to keep up the interest, would you not love the friend who would come THE ATONEMENT 291 to your rescue and clear off the whole debt giving you a fresh start in life? Could you ever be grateful enough to him? This manifestation of real love, this great sacrifice of the stronger for the weaker is just as sure to kindle the flame of love in the heart of the weaker brother as a mother's love and devotion is to kindle it in the heart of her child. And as the love begins to work in a regenerative way, his repentance will grow more sincere, his gratitude will deepen. He will be bound to the one who has purchased and redeemed him, and with this hold the redeemer can lead him by example into the realm of a higher life where they can meet and be companionable. The one making such a sacrifice will find a blissful consciousness in the good accomplished that will repay him for the pain endured or the goods sacrificed. Both the redeemed and the redeemer are thus truly blessed. In this there is a restitution of happiness, a vindication of law. When the weaker has become strong, he can do for others what has been done for him. With the recognition of the justice of this vicarious work the world can be saved, harmony reestablished, love made a workable virtue. Without this principle the world would rest under a curse. Such was the mission. Of our elder Brother, Jesus Christ, and _ such the condition of the world at the time of his advent. The dread disease of sin had spread its contagion through every soul and there was no known remedy or cure for the moral leprosy. To prevent evil conditions the course leading to them must be understood. Thousands have been swept from the earth by cholera, black plague, leprosy, and other diseases caused by the unsanitary conditions in which people lived. The people, however, did not know the cause, did not know that they were filthy, but when the conditions were made known, a cleansing took place and the evils were averted. Thus many of the conditions which afflict humanity result from causes which are unobserved by those who suffer, and misunderstood by those whose duty it is to administer the remedy. When a great eruption shakes the body politic, we usually attribute it to anarchy, vice, drunkenness, infidelity, or some of the glaring evils; but the majority of the people feel that they are not guilty of such sins and that they are not responsible for the seething mass of iniquity which pollutes the world. But the greatest sin ever committed, that sin which caused the angels to weep and men to blush with shame, was not the result of any of those glaring evils. The crime was inflicted by the supporters of law, by the examples of virtue, those who were ceremoniously clean and strictly temperate. This spasm which swept up through the social system and struck down the King of kings and Lord of lords, started from the simple, com- 
 mon, and unholy malady we call selfishness. The germ of this disease is in every human heart unless it has been cleansed by the Great Physician. How was man to know the fearful effect and prevalence of this sin? When selfishness met selfishness, when force ran counter to force and one party was vanquished and the other triumphed by force, the eyes of the world followed the victor, and they saw a virtue in his strength and they gloried in his power. He had not broken any law, he had simply adhered to the law of selfish self-preservation. If we were all black, we would not be conscious of our color until a white man came among us to reveal the fact by contrast. Where all were selfish, one free from the weakness had to come to reveal the fact to us. Selfishness lies at the root of sin, the end of sin is death. Christ came like a lamb among wolves, and when he was torn assunder without mercy, the heartless nature of the wolves was discovered; and we saw, too, that this selfish nature was something that all men were tainted with and ynder the same circumstances and conditions the disease in us would manifest similar symptoms. The death of Jesus Christ, although foreknown, was the natural effect of the condition of the world, a penalty that he voluntarily met because he did not use his power to avert it, a penalty which shows us how the harmony of law will be broken as long as selfishness dominates the world. In the life of Christ we see the beauty of unselfish love and truth, and in his death we witness the effect of selfish sin, brutal force. If, through this penalty, we can become conscious of the laws we have broken, if we are filled with a sincere admiration for the harmony of Jaw and the beauty: which Christ has revealed, and we are willing to make the necessary effort to attain to the truer ideals of life, so far as we can, the penalty he paid has: served its purpose, and God, whose laws we have broken, can justly forgive without the price being paid in eternal pain by us; instead we pay the price in love and gratitude to the One who has opened our eyes and who is willing to lead us into a better realm of life. Now let us summarize the principles we have found operating in God's plan of redemption. The experience of the race has proved human agencies ineffectual to bring about a state of happiness, We may begin, therefore, by acknowledging man's dependence, a condition necessary to development. Jesus Christ on his part has fixed a true ideal, set an example, revealed our relationship to a higher order of beings, has given us definite rules of THE ATONEMENT 293 ation to perfect us individually, and revealed a social system by which we may unite as a community. He has made a sacrifice that should touch every heart and awaken within it the flame of love and gratitude. Our object was not to solve the mystery of the atonement, but to find in the realm of our own experiences sufficient justification for that sacrifice. I believe with Immanuel Kant, "That our prime thought, our reason proper, can reveal to us no theoretical, 'demonstrable, absolute fact about the nature of things, but can only show us on the one hand what, as rational beings, we are bound practically to assume as true, not as a matter of knowledge, but of faith." In science as well as in religion there is a limit to absolute knowledge, a realm bounded by our own experiences, but ever floating above' it is a necessary sphere of rational faith, a string or magnet lifting us into higher degrees of life. And as we ascend, our mental vision enlarges and the boundaries of our experiences break away into ever widening circles.