[Vol23 | March 1936 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Mother Makes a Rag Stewart]

MOTHER MAKES A RAG CARPET What a feast awaited them in the kitchen.
Stewed chicken with dumplings, my mother's specialty and the guests rather expected this main dish at her rag bees.
Then there were boiled parsnips with butter, cabbage slaw, mashed Irish potatoes, chili sauce, a variety of home-made pickles, mince pies, and doughnuts. The deserts were all on the table when the guests were seated, except the rolly polly pudding with potowatomy plums inside, another of mother's favorites.
This was served last minute piping hot, with a delicious dip on top that smelled of nutmeg and cinnamon. How their busy hands did work during the afternoon. By evening every rag was sewed into large neat tightly woven balls. The guests began to depart. Their "good-byes" were so honest and sincere.
Usually a few husbands called in the evening to give their wives a ride home: Of course they were always served hot mince pie or doughnuts before they departed. "THE whole affair seemed somehow to strengthen a friendship in the neighborhood that time has ah + 4: Be 4:4: * "T now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence ' shall flow down from this time." "By union of feeling, we obtain power with God." "This Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls.'"—The Prophet Joseph Smith. 183 never changed, but as the years go by, grows stronger with its memories. The rags were gathered up and placed in large sacks ready for the weaver. We children looked forward to a trip over to the Fort, where the rags would be taken to Mrs. Harvey's to be woven. In a few weeks the new roll of carpet was brought home. How proud my mother was, when it was carried into the house and rolled out over the floor for the first inspection.
During the long winter evenings she spent her time sewing the long strips together. The younger children sat about her rubbing bees wax on the thread she sewed with, to give it added strength. How happy we all were when the last strip was attached and the rag carpet was finished and ready for the kitchen in the spring. It had been a rather tedious task from beginning to end. But the joy and satisfaction my mother felt when it was completed was worth it all. I think today few women experience such a thrill with a beautiful new Wilton rug.