[Vol23 | March 1936 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Opportunity Barker]

Opportunity By Counselor Kate M. Barker HAT do men in this audience think today is the best gift that God on high could give a human being?.. "The best gift that I can conceive that God could give to one human life is opportunity. A man may be an excellent surgeon, and may have his work at his fingers' end, but if he never finds anyone who needs his help, he can never attain to success in life.
Only the men to whom God gives an opportunity to do things can make a success of life.... "What was Christ's joy? It certainly was not in ease and comfort; it was not in long life or in the applause of men; it was not in riches and things of that kind. Who will question, when we come to really think of it, that those things are paltry things compared with the lastme; Joy of having done things?"— T. Grenfell. N order to meet intelligently opportunities that come to us, we must have an informed mind, we must know the facts and understand their meaning, we must be able to think clearly.
Much of the world's weakness and many of its wrongs come from lack of straight and honest thinking. We must know the truth if the truth is to make us free. But important as correct ideas are, they alone are not enough.
Combined with these intellectual guides we must have right ideals, motives, loyalties—those motivating qualities which come from the heart.
Mind and heart must work together: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. And with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind." Our educational courses in Relief Society have been preparing the women of the Church to meet opportunities for service intelligently.
Perhaps never were a group of women better prepared. But are we becoming more concerned with our own self-development than with the service we can render others? Do we realize that a self-centered life tends to defeat its own purpose?
Every single addition we make to our lives increases our responsibility. Jesus, who set the example, had the greatest of inner strength and purity, but led a life remarkable for its objective interests. He "went about doing good." To those with whom He came in contact He brought joy and happiness. OPPORTUNITIES for doing good are on every hand. We were told by the Prophet to "assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; to raise human life to the highest level." Are we meeting this opportunity for service, or are we passively permitting the dollar value to take precedence over the value of human souls?
Changes do not come by thinking fine thoughts or by forming good resolutions alone— changes come when these ideals and resolutions find their way into action. Perhaps, as never before, the world needs clear thinking, resulting in courageous action—not just daydreaming. We cannot shut our young people out from environmental influences, OPPORTUNITY we can only try to improve those influences. In our smaller towns, where the majority of the population are people with the same ideals, surely if the women unitedly work for Gospel standards in community activities, great good can be accomplished.
Opportunities do not only come in helping to solve the big problems of the world, but in all the little contacts of every-day life, and here is where most of us fall short. Any opportunity for kindness is a big opportunity. A British Prime Minister was asked: "How big is the under-secretaryship for B............ P" "As big as the Under-secretary," he replied. 145
How big are the seemingly little opportunities for service all about us? In their possibilities for doing good and increasing happiness they are as big as we make them. Perhaps the greatest contribution that most of us will be able to make is right where we are in our own home and in our own community. But most of the work of building a better world must be done in and through ordinary jobs, in the home and in improving local conditions. By seeing the opportunities there and meeting them, we contribute to the great work of building the Kingdom of God on earth.