[Vol23 | March 1936 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Lund]

Magazine Agent Loretta Bamgartner Notes from the Field By Julia A. F, Lund Blackfoot Stake URING the year 1935 so many wonderful achievements of the Stakes through their Bible Project were reported to the office, that it was necessary to summarize them and pay general tribute to all. However, the Project is still on the Bible, with a close correlation between that and the Teachers' Topic for this year, therefore we are happy to note again the lovely achievements in the field of our Project work. Ee tee chal tate et bent deca putt obs cee acct dh omic. Ee 2) Loven Bioeng ens ae RR ote ee 2
Biblical atmosphere. The happy event was under the immediate direction of the Stake President, Sister Mary S. Bills, and her co-workers. Appropriate music was arranged to accompany the scenes. The poems used during the presentation were taken from English classics and some of our own inspired L. D. S. Writers. Salt Lake Stake OME of the very wonderful work undertaken and consummated LN td ooh et eenalep alert cuties is wil sities ii at. Oe Bai
BLACKFOOT STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY PAGEANT
The above picture is that of a pageant which was presented by the Blackfoot Stake Relief Society. The event was held during the latter part of last year, and was the feature of the yearly ""Mother's Half Holiday." The costuming and stage setting were very artistic, and created a by our Relief Society Stakes is a.
Matter of constant joy to the General Board of Relief Society.
Outstanding among the Stakes whose achievements are noteworthy is that of the Salt Lake Stake, where very careful planning insures a year of activity in which tke fine blending of prac- 198 tical and formal educational work is in evidence. The book-binding project is so helpful that we take note of that. In outlining their project for Work and Business Day, January was chosen as the month in which to put this into effect. The thought was conceived of binding the Magazine, and this not only atfords entertaining work, but is a most economical and valuable type of service. In the words of the Stake, "In book form the Magazine is twelve times more valuable than in twelve single copies." In this meeting the entire Stake Board participated, and each member bound a volume. In the Union Meeting the work was presented to the Ward Supervisors, who responded most thoroughly.
With a little time and effort a volume can be assembled and covered at a cost of from ten to twenty-five cents, depending upon the choice of materials used for the cover. The most interesting thing about the project is that every Relief Society member, from the youngest to the oldest sister, enjoys the thrill of owning their own handbound volume.