ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH
(Continued.)
	Miss Snow received a careful education in
the best schools of the day, and this added to
the most excellent home training, laid the best
foundation for a useful and honorable life.
Nurtured and cherished under the influence of
strong parental love, with a true sense of duty
and strict obedience to the teachings of the
Savior, she developed all those womanly graces
which rendered her society attractive to those
with whom she was associated. As she merged
into beautiful womanhood, the precious endow-
ments of many noble gifts and qualities of
head and heart caused her to be much admired
and sought after by the sterner sex. She was
not a prude, but a modest, thoughtful, studious
and intelligent young lady, with exalted ideas
of life and its responsibilities. She remained
single, notwithstanding the many inducements
offered her to enter into the marriage relation,
until the order of plural marriage was revealed
through Joseph Smith, the prophet.
	And here, let me say, although it may be
looked upon as a superstition, that I believe
the Lord held in reserve certain women to
practically lay the foundation of this holy
order of patriarchal marriage, and in my mind
there is no doubt but "Sister Eliza" was one of
the chosen few. Many of her friends were ex-
tremely anxious to see her well settled in life,
but she was happy in herself and would not
submit to any interference in this matter.
	In her girlhood Miss Snow formed the ac-
quaintance of the famous preacher and scholar,
Alexander Campbell, also Walter Scott and
Sidney Rigdon, able ministers of the Campbell-
ite Church, and men of erudition. They as-
sisted her greatly in the study of the Scrip-
tures, and especially the ancient prophecies, in
which, though young, she was greatly inter-
terested, and which no doubt helped to prepare
her mind to receive the mission of Joseph
Smith, though she became a convert to the
Campbellite faith.
	Sister Eliza tells us that early in 1835 her
elder sister went to Kirtland on a visit to the
Saints, and on her return home bore a strong
testimony of the prophet and the latter-day
work, which impressed her as genuine, true re-
ligion, and yet she feared it was "too good to
be true." However, she trusted, and her faith
increased, and she was baptized on the 5th of
April, 1835, and has from that time ever been
a faithful and steadfast advocate of the princi-
ples of the Everlasting Gospel. In December,
1835, Sister Eliza went to Kirtland and board-
ed in the family of the prophet. While there

[Column 2]

she taught a select school for young ladies,
forming many pleasant acquaintances She
became very intelligent in regard to the prin-
ciples of the Gospel, from frequent conversa-
tions with the prophet, whose knowledge of
God and the plan of salvation seemed to un-
lock the past and future eternities. This was
the commencement of the friendship between
Joseph and Eliza, which was destined, unknown
to them at that time, ultimately to ripen into
the purest earthly affection, and be crowned
with their union in the holy bonds of matri-
mony, in the order of Celestial Marriage.
	Miss Snow returned again to the home of
her parents for a short time, but she was so
imbued with the spirit of gathering, that on
the 1st of January, 1837, she bade farewell to
the paternal home, to which she was most
fondly attached: and determined that hence-
forth she would follow the fortunes and share
the joys or afflictions of the Latter-day Saints.
	It was probably at this time she wrote her
poem, entitled, "What it is to be a Saint."

	"My heart is fixed, I know in whom I trust.
	'Twas not for wealth—'twas not to gather heaps
	Of perishable things—'twas not to twine
	Around my brow a transitory wreath,
	A garland decked wi.h gems of mortal praise,
	That I forsook the home of childhood, that
	I left the lap of ease—the halo-rife	
	With friendship's richest, soft and mellow tones;
	Affection's fond caresses, and the cup
	O'erflowing with the sweets of social life,
	With high refinement's golden pearls enriched.

	The whole poem is eloquent with tenderness.
It is published in Volume l, page 3. At that
time there is no doubt but Miss Snow gave up
her earthly ambitions believing that her relig-
ion was worth the sacrifice, yet keenly feeling
the separation from those in whose hearts she
held so dear a place.
	Reaching Kirtland she up took her abode in
the family of the prophet,aud became governess
to his children and was companion for Emma
during a number of years. She assisted in
many spiritual labors, and gave freely all
her means which she had brought with her
from her home to aid in building the Kirtland
Temple. She had no desire to receive any of
it back again, although afterwards she received
for part of it a homestead which she accepted
for her family.
	The persecution raged in Kirtland after the
Temple had been finished and dedicated, so
that many had to flee for their lives, and in
company with her own immediate family, who
had previously gathered to Kirtland Sister Eliza
started for the West, arriving in Far West,
Caldwell Co., Mo., on the 16th of July; she
remained there with her brother Lorenzo; who
was very sick at the house of Sidney Rigdon
and the family proceeded to Adam-ondi-Ahman
in Davies Co. There her father purchased
land from the "old settlers," paying them in
full. While there terrible events occurred, too
dreadful to record here,the picture is too horri-
ble. None but those who suffered in those
perilous times can ever realize the inhuman
persecutions of the Saints in Missouri.
	  To be Continued.


