UTAH  COUNTY  SILK ASSOCIATION.
	A pleasant gathering of  the  principal mem-
bers of the Silk Association of this county con-
vened  at  Father Graves gardens.  In the shade
of the  beautiful avenue was a long table spread
with “good things,” which had  been provided
by the sisters.  About  a  hundred  guests  par-
took  of  the  bounties spread:  while  thus  enga-
ged  the merry  jest and sparkling repartee, en-
livened the scenes, filling the hearts of all with
a sense of joy and thankfulness for God's many
mercies.  The  guests then rambled around the
pleasant grounds,  visiting the cocoonery  where
BrotherGraves is making it practical illustration
of the  enterprise  he advocates so much.
	They were then  called to order by  Brother
Lovelass,  the  Bishop  remarked  that  we  had
met  to  enjoy  ourselves, that  the  sisters  had
labored faithfully for this enterprise which had
been instituted by  the Prophets of God.
	While learning these things ourlelves remem-
ber  the  day  would  come when they would
have to instruct others, that thereby this people
might  become  self-sustaining;  for  many  who
would  be  gathered  from  the  nations  of the
earth, would  need  help;  that  such  meetings
were calculated to do away with preujdice, and
make us love each other,  and  therefore were
for  our good.
	Brother Paxman spoke of the  growing lab-
ors  of  the  sisters, that their duties  would in-
crease  until  the coming  of the Savior.  That
this event was near at hand, and those who
were  striving  to  accomplish  useful  labors  in
temporal and spiritual things and live humbly,
were  like  the  wise  virgins  who  were  pre-
pared to go forth, when the cry comes, "Lo! the
Bride-groom cometh  go ye  out to  meet him.
That these duties  were  numerous,  and one  of
them was silk raising. Said we must teach our
children these  things, that they  might help  to
push  on the kingdom of God.
	President Smoot was glad  to meet  with  the
sisters in  this  capacity, said he  was  informed
that it was gaining strength, although its growth
was  slow,  hoped  it  would  be  sure.  That
silk could be produced from the elements, very
cheaply, and  when  produced  was  always  an
article  of  commerce, that those  who  were not
able to do very hard labor could engage in the
cultivation of silk, and by so  doing they could
help to sustain themselves and increase home-
industry.  Hoped the intelligent efforts  of  the
people would never cease  until they  had fully
developed the  many resources of the Territory.
Advised all engaged  in the  enterprise to keep
out, of debt as debt had been  the ruin of many
laudable  enterprises;  told the sisters to ask as-
sistance of the brethren,when needful for them
to go on in this good work and all wise men and
women would say, Amen.
	The Secretary, Brother  Albert  Jones, read
the  constitution  of  the  Silk  Association of
Utah county.
	Sister Zina  D.  Young ,felt  well pleased to
meet  with the mothers in Isreal, in this capacity;
spoke of the time  when president Brigham
Young addressed the  Saints  for the first  time
on  the  Temple block.,and he then made the
remark, that silk was  in  the elements around
them.  That she had remembered these words,
and when called upon to  engage in this  labor
had cheerfully  responded;  also of a time when
the sisters  were  assembled  together  at Lehi.
President Young entered, and said "What do
I see before me?  A congregation of Eves," how
grand the thought, and while recalling the past
she was  forcibly  reminded  of  the  time  when
Joseph Smith the Prophet walked up and down
clapping his hands  and  shouting  "Hosannah!
hosannah! hosannah! to  God,  and the Lamb.
I have now established  on  the earth  what has
not been since the  time  of  Solomn's Temple."
Exhorted the sisters to  live  those  principles
which unite and bind together, and seek for an
increase of faith in God.
	The assembly  sang "We thank thee O God
for a prophet." 
	Sister Margaret T. Smoot, spoke of the many
things the sisters  had  to  encourage  them, that
the brethren  were  one of them.  That  the
remarks of Sister Young impressed her deeply.
That they were calculated to inspire the soul of
any one who had a soul, and hoped  union would
ever reign  with  the sisters.
	Sisters Beebe, of Provo, Douglas of  Payson,
and Harrison of Springvill made some excellent
remarks.  The  former  returning  thanks  to
Brother Graves  for  his kindness.  The  latter
said there had been 25 lb. of cocoons, and 5 oz.
of eggs  raised  in  Springville  this year, by the
Relief Society.  Brother Z. Coltrin  also  occu-
pied a few moments  in a  few  happy  remarks
and the  assembly  dispersed  for  other  enjoy-
ments feeling refreshed in spirit.
