THE JUBILEE OF ZION,

Written in commemoration of the Fiftieth Anni-
versary of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints by Bishop O. F. Whitney

Hail to the Year of Jubilee!
	Let pealing anthems rise,
And burst of echoing melody
	Loud mingle with the skies!
Let earth resound with music's pow'r,
	Glad welcoming the year,
When Zion sees her natal hour
	The fiftieth time appear!

An hour when, thro' the ling'ring night,
	In beauty broke the morn,
When Faith, exultant, hailed the Light
	That told her Truth was born.
The fulness of an omened birth—
	In verse prophetic given—
When Truth, new springing from the earth,
	Saw Mercy smile in Heaven.

It is a day for Israel
	His highest hopes to raise,
While voice and harp, uniting, swell
	The sounding notes of praise.
For Truth and Virtue, breathing love,
	Have made the world more fair,
Since Righteousness, from realms above,
	Unfurl'd her standard there.

Can friendly eye this radiant scene behold;
Nor feel what fairest words could not unfold?
Or stranger gaze upon its glory rest,
Nor deem, of all, this day divinely blest?
Could Time retrace the wilderness of years—
The stubblefield of human hopes and fears—
Recall from silent regions of decay
The buried greatness of a former day,
Would not the righteous dead their voices raise,
To swell the volume of a people's praise,
And, bursting from the thralldom of the sod,
Declare the wondrous workmanship of God?
But Time, alas! no retrogression knows,
Its ever hurrying stream still onward flows;
The moments coming crowd the moments past,
And each day sings the requiem of the last.
Fair Memory! Thine the task this boon to give;
Bid thou the past within the present live!
On thy bright altar let the embers glow,
To lift the shadows of the Long Ago!

Far down the mystic river of the Mind,
A fleet of recollections slowly wind—
A chain of gems on Fancy's pinions brought,
Historic views on Memory's canvas wrought.
The foremost is a scene where forests grow,
Where flowers bloom and springtime breezes blow,
Where sweet-toned birds send up their matin lay,
And lave in th' golden fountain of the day.
Deep in the bosom of a woodland shade,
Where Solitude her secret home hath made,
A simple lad, his sunburned temples bare,
Pours forth a guileless soul to God in prayer.
A sudden cloud, of midnight depth profound,
Now hurls him breathless to the trembling ground;
Speechless he's stricken, but with voice of will
Calls on his God, and supplicates Him still.
His prayers are heard. [--]o! shining o'er his head
A dazzling light! Where hath the darkness fled?
A pillar brighter than the noonday sun,
When on the purest sky his race is run,
Falls, gently as the earth-reviving dew,
And opens to his gaze a heavenly view;
Two Beings, of a glory to defy
The pow'r of words, stand 'twixt him and the sky,
And is't a voice, or music low and clear,
Whose hallowed sweetness charms the list'ner's ear
Like murmuring waters from a mossy rim:
'Joseph! 'Tis my beloved Son, Hear Him!"

[Column 2]
The scenes roll on. Within a rustic co—
An honest farmer's home of humble lot—
The boy that was, in pride of strength appears,
Erect-'neath manhood's crown of ripening years,
Nor now, as when, in trusting childhood's care,
Alone he sought and found the God of prayer,
Nor when, as singly, stemmed the tide of hate,
Which spurned the truth he dared to innovate;
Friends are his followers. Tho' numb'ring few,
Disciples dauntless, of a doctrine new,
Convened to verify the written word
Of him who bore the burden of the Lord,
When learned proud Babel's king thro' wisdom's ways,
What God had destined in the latter days.
The hour is nigh when monarchs' necks shall bow,
The Stone yet lingers on the Mountain's brow,
But soon with force resistless shall it fall,
And onward roll, victorious over all.
'Tis done—the deed Creation's morn devised—
The Church of Jesus Christ is organized.

The scenes roll on. Now chains the wand'ring sight,
A land of meadows broad and streamlets bright,
Where flowery billows, in the far extent,
Kiss, with soft lips, the bending firmament,
And royal rivers, from their northern throne,
Pour their dark waters toward the burning zone.
A city stands, in purity and pride,
On th' verge of Mississippi's rolling tide;
Erewhile the home of Happiness and Worth,
The sacred source of melody and mirth,
A refuge for the righteous of the earth.
The shrine of Hope, the paradise of Peace,
Where Faith was found in Charity's increase,
The ark where roving Weariness might rest—
A gleam of light upon the earth's dark crest.
But there are sounds of sorrow in the air,
Where Gladness reigned o'er beauty bright and rare,
Dark clouds of grief are gath-ring round thy head,
Whence show'rs of tears shall o'er thy bosom spread,
And Sadness shall the leaves of lichen strew
On thy pale brow, O fated, fair Nauvoo!

A prison cell. The slow descending day
Thro' the rude window sends a farewell ray,
Where Freedom's sons, her worship to atone,
In dreary durance tread the dungeon stone.
Four forms revealed, and one familiar face—
The boy—the man, of other tim[-] and place—
Still young, yet on his brow the crown of care,
That Age and early Woe are known to wear.
What deed of his hath won the felon's doom?
Ask the bright sun, that bids the envious gloom
Give way when Morning lifts the veil of Night,
Why bringeth he again the vanished light?
His deed the same—for bidding darkness flee,
Shares he a dungeon with his comrades three.
Nor filled his cup of fate. Hark! From below,
A rumble as of angry waters flow;
Fast gathering, as clouds foretelling storm,
A horde of demons, housed in human form,
Besiege the portals, and, with surging sway,
The threshold throng—the treacherous guards give way.
A roaring volley rends th' affrighted air,
As rush the mad mob up the trembling stair,
Eager, as wolves, the helpless prey to rend,
Daring, as cowards, strike were none defend.
Now bristling weapons gleam about the door,
Into the cell their murderous showers pour,
While, through the windows, to the fatal room,
Swift rain the metal messengers of doom.
Vainly the captives stem that fiery flood,
Thirsting to mingle with a martyr's blood,
E'en now life's ruddy river's ebbing fast;
Two noble souls on earth have sigh[-]d their last.
Sweet Mercy! Close the bloody book of Fate!
Seared is the sight such scenes can contemplate.
To shield thy chosen, smite their ruthless foes,
O God! Could not thy lightnings interpose?

Weep, Zion, weep! But every drop that's shed
Shall roll an ocean o'er the murderer's head.
Thy tears, tho' vain his victims to recall,

[Column 3]
On Crime's dark soul like molten lead shall fall.
Mourn, Israel! Mourn thy prophet chieftains slain,
Yet know their souls ar[-]. 'neath the altar lain,
To rise in witness at that solemn day,
When Judgment shall the world in balance weigh,
And cowering Sin, from vengeance long concealed,
In Retribution's presence stands revealed.

Where, next, shall Fancy's roving pinion rest?
Mid barren regions of the boundless West,
Where silv'ry steams through silent valleys flow
From mountains laureled with eternal snow.
Where reigns no creed its rival creed to bind,
Where exiled Faith a resting place shall find,
Where th' eagle builds his home upon the height,
And dreams of Freedom that hath wing'd her flight.
'Tis morning. On the mountain, vale and stream
The generous sun bestows a golden beam,
Crowning with glory snow-bespangled hills,
and darting life through all their thousand rills.
No sound disturbs the stillness of that scene—
So bare, so bright, so savage yet serene—
Save where the torrent's distant voice is heard,
Mingling with music of the mountain bird,
Or minstrel cricket, 'neath his drooping blade,
Chrips, ceaselessly, his summer serenade.
But list! Breaks on the ear a stranger sound—
How the high hills those jarring notes rebound,
As sentinels, that wa[-]n what would intrude,
To mar the sway of kingly Solitude!
Now nearer borne upon the canon breeze,
The roll of rocks and crash of falling trees
Blend harsh, at intervals, with human shout,
And clattering wheels that throng the rugged route.
Lo! Issuing from the mountain's rough defile,
Where frowns, on either side, a lofty pile,
A little band of ragged mountaineers
Halt on the ridge—whose milder summit rears,
The towering peaks and plain to intervene—
And gaze with wonder on the glorious scene.
Ah! marvel nothing if the eye may trace
The care lines on each sunbrowned hero's face;
Nor yet, if down his cheek, in silent show,
The trickling tides of tender feeling flow.
Tears, not of weakness, nor of Sorrow's mood,
As when, o'er banished joys, will Memory brood,
Far richer fount each fearless eye bedewed—
They wept the golden drops of gratitude.
Wherefore? Ask of the bleak and biting wind,
The rivers, rocks and deserts left behind;
The rolling prairie's waste of moveless waves,
Besprinkled with a sea of nameless graves;
The city fair, where widowed Loneliness
Weeps for her children in the wilderness;
The river broad, along whose icy bridge,
Their bleeding feet red-hued each frozen ridge;
The Christian world, that drove them forth to die
On barren wilds, beneath a wintry sky!
Would e'en the coldest heart forbear to say,
Good cause had Gratitude to weep that day?
Or censure, for a flow of manly tears,
That brave-souled band—the Mormon Pioneers?
Their names? Go view them on the Golden Page,
The gift of Glory to the coming age;
The van of Civilization's westward sweep,
The few that sowed what millions yet shall reap.
As some fair ship that waves its pennant high,
Bright with the splendors of the evening sky,
Their memory sails along the mystic sight.
Haloed with blessings, as a crown of light,
Floating down Fame's eternal river,
A thing of beauty and a joy forever.
And fifty years, like billows on the sand.
Have left their marks on Life's enruffled strand,
Since dawned the morning of that chosen day
When Israel's fold refound the Narrow Way,
And planted firm the Gospel's glorious tree,
On Joseph's land, the land of Liberty.
Tho' rudely torn from out the parent soil—
Its budding glories fierce Oppression's spoil—
And flung far out upon the burning plain,
To meet the doom its murd'rous foes ordain;


Like Aaron's rod, the Bough of Joseph blooms,
Brings forth, in gladness, 'mid the desert glooms,
With fragrance rare the sterile valley fills,
And blossoms on the Everlasting Hills.
Deep rooted in the chambers of the rock,
Unheeding war, and storm, and earthquake shock,
It stands where Hatred's fiery shafts are hurled,
Waving a welcome to the wond'ring world.
Afar, its shadows o'er the nations fall,
Again its branches climb the ocean wall,
And seeds of Life, sown with Almighty hand,
Are springing from the soils of every land.
And these shall bear, upon the world's broad face,
The fruits of Freedom for the human race,
Freedom for all, of every creed and hue,
Pagan or Christian, Moslem, Greek or Jew,
O'er all alike, the Olive blooms again,
Proclaiming peace on earth, good will to men.
There let it flourish, till from shore to shore—
When tide shall rest and time shall be no more,
And heaven's veil hath withered to a scroll—
The waves of righteousness o'er earth shall roll,
And Zion, the redeemed, the pure, the free,
Shall celebrate the WORLD'S GEEAT JUBILEE.


