FROM SANPETE TO JUAB COUNTY.
		NOTES BY THE WAY.
	Early on Saturday morning, August 14th, our
party  left Fayette for  Levan.  The distance is
26 miles, and the  roads  were dreadfully  cut up
and very dusty.  Sister Eliza R. in a light buggy,
drove the whole distance.  She is a good chariot-
eer, having driven  a  team most of the way out
of  Nauvoo.  Arrived  in  Levan in time for din-
ner, went directly to Bishop  Aaggaard's, where
Sister  Goldsbrough  was  in  waiting expecting
our arrival.  Bro. Knight had  brought her over
to meet the sisters  there  and  take  them on to
Nephi.  There was  a primary meeting of the
children in the afternoon and a special meeting
of the Relief Society in the evening, to which
the brethren and young people were cordially
invited. There was a good attendance  and all
seemed to enjoy hearing the sisters talk.
	The next  place defined in the programme was
Nephi, whither, on the following morning, Bro.
Knight, with a carriage load  of  sisters, wended
his way. Arrived  at Sister Goldsbrough's  before
noon.  In Nephi  we attended  three  meetings.
The  Primary  Associations  met  together  and
their singing and exercises were excellent.  The
children seem to appreciate having  meetings of
their own.  In  fact  everywhere  the  children
seemed to enjoy the spirit of the Lord  in  these
precious little meetings.  In  the evening  a spe-
cial meeting of the Relief Society  convened and
there was a large audience.  Many young people
were present and great interest was  manifested
in  what  was  spoken.  Sister  Eliza  talked
over  an  hour  without  pausing,  and
her  wise  counsel  and  excellent  instruc-
tions  flowed  forth  as  it  were  fresh  from
the fountain of her soul.  We stopped  with  the
Sisters Pitchforth.  In the morning before leav-
ing for Mona, the next  place  to  be  visited,  we
were shown the job printing press of Miss Leonora
Pitchforth, it is rather odd to  find a young lady
with a printing press, performing  all  the  work
herself.  She does the necessary printing  of  re-
cords,  etc.,  for  the  county,  and  many  little
things  that  would otherwise have to be sent for
some  distance  from  Nephi,  the  nearest  press
being in Provo.  We saw some specimens of her
work which  were  very  neatly  executed.  We
say success  to  the  young  lady's  enterprise  in
printing, we think it shows a good degree of  en-
ergy and she certainly  deserves patronage.
	On the morning of  the  16th, Brother Knight
and  wife  and  Sister  Goldsbrough  took  us  to
Mona, at which place we were to take  the train
for  home.  Two meetings were  held  there, one
with  the  Primary  Association  and  the  other
with  the  Relief  Society.  These  were the last
[column break]
meetings we  attended,  making  thirty  in  all
since  leaving  home.  Everywhere  the  people
seemed prosperous  and  happy.  The sisters  are
making improvement in everything that is prac-
ticable  for the Relief  Society to undertake that
will tend to the general  good, and a good degree
of  enterprise  is  almost  everywhere  apparent.
Spiritually there is  a  great  change  noticeable
since  the  organizations  of  women  have  been
formed.  Many of the sisters who could not offer
up a  simple prayer in public when  called upon,
are now able to speak  intelligently  on the prin-
ciples of the Gospel and to preside with  dignity
in the sisters'  meetings  over  large  assemblies
even when many brethren are present.
	It is  only a little over a year  since  the  first
Primary  Associations  were  organized  in  San-
pete  County, and  others  were  organized in Au-
gust  just  one  year  ago;  and  the  improvement
which has been  made  by  the  children is  very
great indeed.  Little  boys  and  girls  will  open
and  close  their  meetings  with  prayer;  they
will  rise up and speak  of  the goodness of God,
and the joy  there is in doing good.  In singing,
reciting  and  writing  essays,  they  are rapidly
progressing,  and  it  is  a  source  of  pleasure
to  travel  from  place  to  place  and  see  the
unity of feeling  that  exists,  and  the beautiful
and  teachable  spirit which the  children  have
when  they  come  together  in  their  meetings.
This spirit and  blessing  will  go  with  them to
their homes and  their  playgrounds, and  will be
a potent influence in directing the  little ones in
the path of duty and obedience.
	We thank  the  good  people  of  Sanpete  and
Juab for their pleasing attentions,  and shall not
soon forget the many hearty  welcomes, nor the
fervent "God  bless you," from  the  bishops,
brethren and sisters, wherever we tarried on our
way. It is very gratifying to visit the people in
the different  settlements  and  learn  how they
have  toiled and  persevered  under  various dif-
ficulties to build up the country  and extend the
borders  of Zion; and to find them engaged heart
and soul in furthering the purposes of our Father,
to establish  his  kingdom,  preach  the  gospel,
build  temples, and  redeem  Israel. It is  a re-
markable feature of this latter-day work  that go
where  you will among  the  Saints,  there is the
same genuine  spirit and  influence  which is in-
tensely  Mormon, and  is  always perceptible to
the initiated.  It  is  this  strong  cord  of union
which strengthens and  binds  together the peo-
ple of God.  The  more they  become acquainted
with each others' hearts, the  more  closely will
they be knit together in the bonds of that beau-
tiful love which will eventually bring peace and
good will to all.


