HOME  AFFAIRS.
THE  Relief  Societies of Utah County held
their Quarterly Conference  on  Friday  Aug. 27.
We acknowledge  the  courtesy  of an  invitation
and sincerely regret not being able to attend.
	The Primary Association  of  the  14th  Ward
held their annual conference on Friday Aug. 27.
Several visitors were  present,  and the  meeting
was  one  of  special  interest.  Sisters  Horne,
Woodruff,  Clawson  and  others  addressed the
children.
	We publish in this issue the poem  by  Bishop
O. F. Whitney, written for the Jubilee, a part of
which was read in the Tabernacle by Col. David
McKenzie at the celebration of the last 24th of
July, and afterwards  published  in  the  Deseret
News aud Contributor.  It now appears  for  the
first time in its complete form.
	The part left out before is a touching pen picture
of Nauvoo and  the Martyrdom  of  the  Prophet
and Patriarch and a glorious tribute to the Pio-


neers of '47.  The young author is not  yet  very
generally known to the public as a poet, but all
who read this grandly eloquent  poem,  may  see
he has the true inspiration of poetry.
	THE general meeting of the Senior and Junior
Retrenchment associations was held in the 14th
Ward  Assembly  Rooms,  Saturday  August 28,
Counselor  Phebe  Woodruff  presiding.  Sung
"Come let us anew,"  prayer by Mrs. S. M. Hey-
wood, sang "Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day of
salvation." Minutes of last  meeting  read  and
accepted, also minutes of Y.L.M.I.A. 10th Ward
were read.  Mrs.  Woodruff made a few  good re-
marks.  Mrs.  E. B.  Wells, Mrs. B. W. Smith,
Mrs. S.  M.  Kimball,  Mrs.  Hannah  T. King,
Mrs.  Julia  Howe,  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Barney,  a
Norwegian Sister,  Mrs.  Clara C.  Cannon,  Mrs.
Prescindia  Kimball  and  Mrs.  S. M.  Heywood
each addressed the meeting.  The  principal  ob-
ject was the suffrage  and many good ideas were
advanced.  The  principles  of  the  gospel were
also freely spoken upon and the meeting was de-
cidedly an interesting  one.  Closed  by  singing
"O my Father thou that  dwellest."  Benedic-
tion by Mrs. Amy A. Thomas.
	THERE will be an opportunity given to register
for voting at  the County Court  House in each
County,  for  those whose  names are not already
upon  the county register.  Go to the office of the
assessor and  collector  on Monday the  13th, day
of September or the day  or so following  during
that week, and  make  yourself  sure  if you  are
not already positive, so that you will not lose the
opportunity of voting for the  delegate  to  Con-
gress  for the  Territory  of  Utah.  Because you
voted at the election  of city  officers it does  not
entitle you to cast your vote for County or Terri-
torial officers.  Don't forget to register.  Previous
to the Territorial Convention which will be held
in this city on  Thursday  the  7th,  of  October,
delegates will be chosen from each of the differ-
ent  counties to represent the people and make
the nomination  of a candidate to be voted for as
delegate  from  Utah  to  the  coming Congress.
The sisters should  be  on hand to  perform their
part in  this  matter, and  attend  such  meetings
as may  be called  in  the  locality  where they re-
side, manifesting their interest  as  citizens  and
their desire  to attend to  every duty,  and  fulfill
to the  best of  their ability  every  responsibility
resting upon  them as interested members of the
body politic.
	BIRTHDAY PARTY.--A  pleasant  party  of
friends assembled, by invitation, at the residence
of  Apostle  Orson  Pratt,  Monday,  Aug.  23,  to
celebrate the fiftieth birthday of Mrs. Marian R.
Pratt.  There  were  present Pres.  John Taylor,
Apostle Joseph F. Smith and Gen. D. H. Wells,
Elders  C.  W.  Penrose,  J.  Bull,  Father  John
Lyon, and several other gentlemen and quite a
number  of  ladies.  The  afternoon  passed  off
agreeably in  conversation and croquet, in which
last President Taylor joined with much apparent
interest.  Dinner was served about eight o'clock,
and  after it was over the  music began.  A sere-
nade on the outside was the first intimation, and
Mrs. Pratt invited the musicians into  the  house
to  partake  of  refreshments.  The  string  band
consisted  of  Prof.  Thomas,  W.  Weihe,  and
others, who played  a  few favorite  airs, making
sweet melody.  Some beautiful songs were sung
in  an  effective  manner  by  Misses  Colebrook
Pratt and Wells, and  Misses  Slade  and Mantle
read quaint selections of  poetry in a happy style.
Father  Lyon, in  good old Scotch, read an  origi-
nal  poem, written  by himself and  dedicated to
Mrs. Pratt, recalling  the  time when she was  a
fair and goodly young woman, and drew a pretty
picture of her life, wishing her many  happy re-
turns  of  the  day and an  increase  of  prosperity
nd every blessing.  The lady's brother also read
[column break]
a history of her life in verse written by himself.
The whole affair was a complete success.  Some
elegant and  choice  gifts  were  presented to her
by  relatives  and  friends,  together  with their
universal good wishes, and blessings upon bless-
ings.  In a few days fifty years will have elapsed
since Elder  Orson  Pratt was  first baptized into
the Church.  He is, we understand, older in the
Church than any member now living.
	PLEASANT FAMILY  GATHERING.--On  Wed-
nesday, the 25th  ult., upwards of forty children
and grandchildren  of  Brother Joseph and Sister
M. Isabella  Horne assembled, with  other rela-
tives and a few friends, in  their  dear  old  home
in  this  city, previous  to  the  departure of the
eldest son  and brother, with  his family, for Ari-
zona.  The company numbered  about sixty  in
all,  the  invited  guests  being  President  John
Taylor  and  wife  and  Hon. George  Q. Cannon
and  sister, who were  acquainted  with  Brother
and Sister Horne when they were first  married,
and  had  been  intimately associated with them
ever  since.  During  the  evening  both  of  the
gentlemen  expressed  their respect and  esteem
for the family, spoke of the many  pleasant asso-
ciations  they  had  had  with  the  family,  and
blessed  them  one  and  all  in  the  name  of the
Lord.  The afternoon was mostly occupied with
the  family  dinner, which  was  sumptuous  and
befitting the occasion.  The evening was  spent
in  music, songs,  addresses, from  both  parents
and children--Brother and Sister Horne singing
one of  the old songs they used to sing when their
eldest children  were  playing  about  their  knee.
They both  gave  some excellent counsel to their
children, besides  telling them many interesting
incidents  in  their  early  lives.  During the eve-
ning a beautiful  silver  fruit  stand, filled  with
luscious  fruit,  was  presented  to  Brother  and
Sister  Horne by  their  children.  All was love,
joy, peace and harmony,  there  being only one
thing  to mar the pleasure of the  company--the
absence  of one daughter, with her  husband and
children, from  the  family circle, they  not being
able  to  make  it  convenient to be present.  The
family have been scattered from  one  end of the
Territory to the  other, and  it  has  been  many
years since  they  all  assembled  together in the
old home.  One praiseworthy feature of this large
family is, not one  of  the  children or grandchil-
dren  is accustomed  to  the  use of  either tobacco
or  liquor, and  most  of  them  keep  the  Word of
Wisdom in other respects.--COM.


