THE  BRIGHAM  YOUNG  ACADEMY.
		CONTINUED.
As  an  illustration, the  parable  of  "the  five
wise  and  five foolish virgins" is  related.  The
teacher  asks, "Who  will  volunteer  to  repeat
this  parable?"  Immediately  the  little  hands
of  perhaps  a  dozen  children  are  raised, with
eager  delight  at  the  distinction  shown them.
The one selected (invariably the first to  volun-
teer)  will  repeat, with perhaps faultless  preci-
sion, the words  of  this beautiful  story.  Noth-
ing is  arbitrary, all are left to act according to
their  conception of right and wrong;  and  with
pleasure  the  teacher can  see  the  gradual  de-
velopment of  the moral and intellectual capaci-
ties  of  the  human  mind as  comprehended in
the child-student.
	A half hour  of such  instruction,  together
with  the  customary rontine of reading, dicta-
tion,  arithmetic  and  writing,  (the  two  last
named  branches  being  taught upon improved
methods,  that  never  fail  to  give  satisfaction,
and  are  made specialties of) is given twice a
week.  Tuition in drawing, singing and  object-
lessons is given once a week, as also in hygiene,
thus  giving the little  ones an  idea  of  the  im-
portance  of  preserving  their  health,  and  by
what means it can best be accomplished.  Thus
the  monotonous  routine  of  school life is done
away  with  at  our Academy, and  instead  of a
feeling  of  repugnance, the  little  darlings  are
possessed with so keen a relish for learning that
nothing  less than  some  extraordinary tempta-
tion  could  induce them to  absent  themselves
from the school room.
	We will  leave  the Primary department and
proceed to the Intermediate.  This is a step in
advance, for  here the  scholars have their note
books  before  them, in  which  they write  a few
words  now and  then, listening with  attentive
ears  and  eager  looks  to  their teacher, whose
every expression  is  noted and  ideas treasured
by the  little  ones.  We will  begin  with  this
department, as  we  did  with  the  last, by refer-
ring  to  its  theological  class.  Here,  also, the
Book of Mormon and Bible are the  principal
exercises--the  former on Mondays  and  Thurs-
and the  latter on Tuesdays  and Fridays; from
these  books  the lecture  or  lesson being given,
which  is  simplified  according  to  the  under-
standing  of  the  pupils.  The  principles  and
incidents  are dwelt upon in a manner that will
reach the  comprehension of  all, each child be-
ing  given  the privilege  of  asking questions in
relation to the subject before them.  A glance
at their note books  will quickly tell how much
has  been learned.  For instance, we shall see a
map showing the course taken by Lehi and his
family while  journeying  from  Palestine, their
landing in South America, etc., etc.;  the prin-
cipal  settlements  formed by the  Nephites and
the strongholds of the Lamanites;  all of which
show that  these little boys  and  girls are  gain-
ing  understanding  and  knowledge in relation
to  Church  doctrine  and history, and otherwise
receiving  information  of a  highly moral  and
religious character--an amount of information
too  that  is far in advance  of  the limited stock
possessed by the majority of Latter-day Saints.
			To be Continued.


EACH Primary Association in S. L. Co.,  is re-
quested to send a statistical and&nbsp;financial report
to  Mrs.  Ellen C. S. Clawson,  in  time  for  the
Sisters' Conference, Sept. 21, 1880.


