LIBERTY."

	THIS is a true and wise saying. It is one too
that the Latter-day Saints, men and women,
should ponder well in their hearts and diligently
act upon in their every day lives. There are
many duties which demand attention, and which
if neglected, bring people into some sort of bon-
dage, for instance if prayer is neglected, Satan
has power over that individual to lead him
astray, and bring him in bondage to Satan. It
is very customary in this day to talk of freedom
and liberty, this is spoken of as a free country.
Everybody has certain inalienable rights, which it
is an imperative duty to maintain and exercise for
themselves. One of these rights is the ballot.
In Utah this privilege is secured to woman.
Then it is just as important she should exercise
it as it is that man should. The influence of
woman characterizes society, and when woman
has the opportunity of using her influence as a
member of the Commonwealth, it is her impera-
tive duty to assist all that lies in her power, in
the advance, in the maintaining of good order,
and in the protecting or defending of the govern-
ment of which she forms a part. A woman's
vote counts just the same as a man's, and the
women of Utah, who possess this blessed right
should not hold it lightly, nor esteem it a little
thing. Every woman who is old enough to cast
a vote and is a citizen born, or naturalized,
should go to the polls with the same sacred sense
of duty with which she kneels down to pray.
What wisdom would there be in praying to God
to give us liberty, if we do not appreciate it
enough to do our share towards maintaining it?
None. If there is any woman who has not
registered her name according to the law of the
Territory, so that she can vote legally, she
should do so. The books will be open for those
who have failed to register heretofore, on the
13th of September, which will be the second
Monday in this month, at the office of the
Assessor and Collector in each county. Sisters
go and be sure, if you are not already positive.
The opportunity for registering will last one
week only, and whoever desires to register must
do so within that time. At the recent election
held on the 2nd of August, for electing county
officers, many persons went expecting to cast
their vote, and were disappointed, because their
names were not found on the county register.
The registration for the city, or for municipal
elections, will not answer for the county. Do
not fail, sisters, to put yourselves right in this
matter, so that you may be prepared to cast
your vote, which will be quite an important
factor at the November election. What will ap-
ply to the sisters in this county will also hold
good for the women of every other county in

[Column 2]

the Territory of Utah, Sisters, let us be wise
and act well our part, that there may be no
blame attached to us in this matter, which is of
vital interest. In this grand department of
public weal, in this juncture of affairs, which
calls for united effort, woman bears the same
relation to the subject at issue as man, and
wherever there are serious entanglements or
difficulties, woman is as great a sufferer
as man, and many times more so
The burden of oppression, the horror of
war often falls heaviest on defenceless women
and children. God has given us freedom, let us
be grateful. He has given us the ballot; let us
use it wisely for the protection of those we love
and the maintenance of peace and good order.
Let us act wisely and in concert with our breth-
ren in this matter, for what benefits one
blesses the other correspondingly, and there
must be union of effort with men and women, if
any really great good is to be accomplished.


