				TRYPHENA BRYSON Sec'y.

	The Conference of the Manti Primary Asso-
ciation—North and South Wards—was held
in the Bowery on Sunday, Aug. 22, at three
P. M. There was a good attendance of the
members of the Association, and also of the
parents of the children. The meeting was
called to order by Sister Casto, president of
the South Ward. Choir sang. Prayer by
George Braithwaite. Choir sang. Minutes of
conjoint meeting held August 11 were read,
also financial statement of each ward. Both
wards had donated to the Temple and new
Meeting House, and helped Elders going on
missions.
	The programme was then presented to the
audience, which consisted of a varied selection
of essays, songs, recitations and other exercises,
the first in order being music by the Brass
Band; Exercise, "Dispensation of the fulness of
times," class conducted by Sister Lucia Cox;
Song, "The shells we gathered long ago," Mary
C. and Annie, accompanied on the organ by
Mary Westensko; Class Exercise, "Story of
David and Goliath," conducted by Elizabeth
Luke; Class Exercise, "Relation of God to
man," conducted by Eva Cox; Essay on "Obe-
dience," Emmeline Hansen; Class Exercise,
"Revelation of God to man, eonducted by Ma-
tilda Alder; Dialogue, "Between a Gentile and
Mormon Boy," Wm. Peacock, and Wm. Cox;
Recitation, "The Mother's Prayer," Elizabeth
Luke; Song, "Lulu," Edna and Verney Snow;
Class Exercise, on "Faith and Repentance,"
conducted by Hannah Westensko; Music,
Brass Band; Recitation, "I can and I can't,"
Geo. Braithwaite; Essay on "Confidence,"
Elizabeth Hanson; Song, "Li[-]tle Footsteps,"
Diantha and Eunice Billings; Questions and
Answers, Hannah Munk and Annette Alder;
Reading, "Housework," Rose Brown; Recita-
tion, "Table Rules;" Annie Ludwigson; Song,
'-The Boy and Cuckoo," Matilda Alder and
Mary Keller, with organ accompaniment.
	At the close of the programme, Bishop Jen-
sen said he was happy to see the progress made
by the children of the Association, and hoped
the parents would see it their place to attend
the meetings often and countenance the presi-
dents and their assistants, and encourage them
by their presence.
	Bishop Reid said he was deeply concerned
in the welfare of the children, and we could
not allow our children to grow up without be-
ing educated in the knowledge of God. The
pure in heart were to be led and guided into
all truth. Our children were pure, and this
was the time when they should be taught in
purity and truth. This was their seed time;
and as the seed is sown in the ground, so should
truth be sown in the hearts of the children,
and the rain and dew of heaven would water
and nourish the same, by the Spirit and grace
of God.
	President Maiben, after reading a portion of
the Book of Mormon, remarked, the Lord said
"Snffer little children to come unto me;" and
great would be the reward of those who under-
took to do anything to train the youth of Zion;
and thanked Sieter Casto and Sister Tennant
and their assistants for their care and atten-
tion in training the members of the Manti
Primary Association.
	The choir then sang, "Let Zion in her beauty
rise." Benediction by Brother James Craw-
ford.
	WILLIE REID and ELIZABETH LUKE,
							Secretaries.

	We have had some good times here in Lake
Town lately, having received a visit from the
President ef the Stake, Sister Julia Lindsay,
and her Counselors. There was a large at


tendance  of  members,  who,  as  usual, highly
appreciated the  good instructions  given  us by
these  sisters.  Bro. Lindsay and  our  Bishop's
first  counselor,  Bro.  Ephraim  Watson, being
present, were  called  upon to set  apart some of 
the  sisters  to  fill  offices.  Our  Primary Asso-
ciation being destitute  of a President for some
time, Sister Mary  Ellen Findlay was appointed
and  set apart to fill that office.
	We have had a long, cold winter and spring,
and our meetings have  not  been  so  very  well
attended, but  since the weather  has  been  fine
the  sisters  are  getting more alive to their du-
ties.  We celebrated the 4th  of  July on Mon-
day; the  brethren  took their  teams and we all
wended our way to the Lake shore, where there
was  a  bowery  erected,  at  the  top  of  which
floated the glorious stars and stripes, to remind
us of our freedom.  The  Declaration  of  Inde-
pendence was  read by Sister Sarah Ann Nebe-
ber.  Bro.  Robert S. Spence, being  appointed
Orator  of  the  day,  delivered  an  interesting
oration, listened  to by an  attentive and apprec-
ciative audience.  Bro. Joseph Irwin delivered
a stump speech, which was very interesting
amusing. There  were  some select pieces sung
by the  Lake  Town  choir, after  which  we  re-
tired under the beautiful foliage of the trees to
partake of a sumptuous picnic.  In  the  after-
noon  there were  recreations  of  all kinds, such
as are generally indulged in on  such occasions;
all  seemed  to  enjoy themselves, both  old and
young. In the evening we had a very enjoya-
ble time "tripping the light fantastice toe" at a
party, at  which  our  President  of the Relief 
Society made her  appearance with  two quilts,
the proceeds  of  which were  to  be  divided for
the Emigration Fund and the building of  Lo-
gan Temple.  Thus you see that Lake Town is
yet alive, if not often  heard from, and striving
with the others to do her part in the good work
that  we  are  all  engaged  in.  Yours truly in
the Gosepl of Peace.
				MARY NEBEKER, Pres't,
				HARRIET LLOYED, Sec'y.
			------------------
	The Relief Society  of  Fairview  held their
Eleventh Annual meeting at the meeting house
on  the  14th  of  June,  1880.  Our  respected
Bishop, A.  Tucker, and quite a number of the
brethren met  with  us.  The  choir and string
band  were  also  in  attendance  by invitation.
After the opening exercises, reading of minutes
and reports, Bishop  Tucker said he felt thank-
ful  for  the  blessings  we  this  day  enjoyed.
Thanked the sisters for the good they had done,
and are doing for the building up of Zion  and
looking after the sick and needy. spoke very
encouragingly  of  their  labors, and  gave  good
and  timely counsel.
	Father Brady related  some  of his early ex-
perience in the Church, and  congratulated the
sisters on the progress they had made.
	"The Women  of  Utah" was sung by Sisters
T. A. Stevens and Kesiah Brady.
	Pres. M.  A.  Pritchett  felt  to  thank the
brethren for  their  attendance, also the  choir
and all those who had  contributed to the en-
joyment on the  occasion.  Thanked the sisters
for  the  union  and  generosity they had  mani-
fested, and  felt  to  thank  the  Lord  for  every
good  gift we receive at his hand.  Urged  the
sisters to take and to read the WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT.  The  time  was  spent  in  music, recita-
tions,  etc.,  until  two  o'clock  P. M., when the
Relief Society sisters, with  their husbands and
invited  guests  sat down to a bounteous repast,
superinteded by Sister  Margaret Chency and
committee. The  sick  and  poor  were  not for-
gotten, and  our  jubilee anniversary  was one
long to be  remembered.  There was a party in
the  evening,  at  which  all  seemed  to enjoy
themselves to the utmost.
	We send herewith  our financial report: Our
total income  since  the organization of the So-
ciety  in  June,  1868,  is  $1,971.76.  Disburse-
ments:  for chartiable purposes, $930.67; Tem-
ples, $347;  for  missionaries  and emigration,
$153; for  books,  $28.80;  building,  $166.45;
home industries, $24;  for  fencing, $70.  Total
amount  disbursed,  $1,719.92.  On  hand: in 
Co-op, $200; cash, $31.84;  property, $20.  To-
tal  on  hand  $251.84.  Wheat,  484 bushels,
loaned to the brethren according to counsel.
				LOIS A.  WILSON, Cor. Sec'y.
			---------------
	The Y. L. M. I. A., of Mayfield, Sanpete Co.,
was organized under the direction of Bishop O.
C. Olsen, and his Counselors, March 11th, 1879,
with the  following  officers. Matlida Olsen,
President; Matilda  Jenson, Carolinen Olsen,
Mary Victor,  Margret  Whitlock,  Cynthia
Williams Counselors;  Amelia  Williams, Secre-
tary;  Harriet  Milles Assitant Secretary;
Martha Stevens, Treasurer.  They still remain
the same, and all are alive to their duties.
	We have thirty-one  members  enrolled, and
all are punctual to  attend  meeting;  which we
hold semi-monthly.  Our meetinga are  con-
ducted  as  proposed  by  Brothers,  Wells, and
Hardy. We  edit  a  manuscript paper  semi-
monthly  called the "Encourager," we have also
subscribed for  the  Contributor,  which  is read
with great interest by the members.  The Bish-
op and his Counselors frequently meet with us, 
giving good and fatherly instructions.
	We have made four quilts,  two of  which we
have donated to  the Manti  Temple; one to the 
poor, and the other we sold for wheat;  we have
stored twelve  bushels  of  wheat.  One of our
members' had made twenty  straw hats, as  we
wish to be one with our  sisters  in encouraging
home manufaeture.  The  Y. L. M. I. A., has
been, and is a great  benefit  to this little place,
in leading the  young  in  the way they should
walk, to become  true  daughters of Zion.  We
also had a splendid  time  on  the twenty-fourth
of  July, the  performance  of the day, and the
party in  the evening, was a  real  pleasure and
enjoyment to all.
	We will close by  wishing to be one with the 
sisters  in the cause of truth. 
					MATILDA OLSEN President.
					AMELIA WILLIAMS, Secretary.
				------------------


