LETTER.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear Friend—I sit down, as it were mechani-
cally, to write an  article for our dear  little pa-
per,  but you know how  prostrated I have  been
of late, and  still  feel  the  effects, so I at  once
succumbed  to  the  feeling  of  inertia  and  ina-
bility!  I decided to  simmer down  my writing
proclivities into a letteret to yourself, that you
might know my heart is on  the right side with
regard to you and the paper.  I will  give  you
a  synopsis  of  how  time  passed with  me while
sitting  day  after  day  alone.  Alone,  but  not
forgotten;  my  friends  were  hovering  around
me  all  the  time, bringing  me  anything they
thought would do me good, mentally and phy-
sically, and  help  restore  me;  and  I pondered
how  much  of  the  beautiful and angelic is un-
known till we stand in need!  then we are made
to know our friends, made to love them with a
deeper love, made to know and appreciate them
more than  ever.  Verily, “there is a silver lin-
ing  to  every cloud,” which  sickness and afflic-
tion develop and demonstrate.  I have so often
repeated my own lines—Angels still are on the
Earth! Yes, that  is  beautiful  truth!  and  I
have  again  experienced  it  within the last few
weeks.  One  thing  my illness  caused which I
shall  ever regret—I was not able to walk and
see the great Twenty-Fourth  Jubilee!  I could
not  have  walked  a  block;  I was  almost  the
only one left in our street.  I locked up all the
lower doors, and took my position at my upper
room window, heard the murmur of the mighty
cavalcade and the martial strains of the band,
and  my mind ran  into  strains  of  its  own, en-
gendered  by  the  day and  the event. "A calm
stole  over me—I was  alone with God and the
angels, for  I  felt  their  sweet infllittlee in the
very air I inhaled from my open window.  All
was  sweet peace  around me—the past and the
present  were  vividly before  me, and so, while
thousands  were  gazing  on  that  thrilling pro-
cession, that  lone woman was ranging the field
of thought, enjoying and rejoicing without one
regret  on  that  never-to-be-forgotten  morning,
July 24,1880—a day ever to be  remembered,
the  first  Jubilee of our Church  of  Latter-day
Saints  upon the  earth!  How  little  the world
know  of  this  wonderful  people!  How  little
the  people who have  come here determined to
live with  us, know or realize  who  or what we
are,  or  why we are here!  Alas!  how little com-
paratively we know of ourselves.  How  true is
that ancient scripture that says, “The Kingdom
of God  cometh  not with observation;” but al


is right to those who do right according to the
best light they have.
	Hold me in your heart, still reserve me a
spot whereon I can speak in the EXPONENT—
if only "Poets' corner"—and accept every good
wish for your prosperity in "Church and State,"
		From your friend,
						HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City, Aug. 24, 1880.


