IN SAN FRANCISCO.

	I promised you full particulars about the
Fourth. We had an unusual demonstration,
therefore I will delineate. The 5th dawned,
and a more, cold, gloomy, forbidding day could
not have been selected. The mist fell like rain,
and overcoats were the order of the day. But
long before the hour set for the procession to
form, thousands of people were to be seen on
the streets—I have never seen so many persons
on the street before. At the junction of Mar-
ket, Kearney, and 3d streets there was an im-
mense arched bridge, painted to represent stone;
and on the bridge there was a miniature fort,
and a dozen tents, and a company of regular
soldiers, who kept guard; and there were can-
nons fired from this fort all during the pro-
cession. The bridge, or arch, was claborately
decorated with bunting, flowers and evergreens.
The procession itself was a new feature. There
was an entire absence of all the Hiberinan
total abstinence societies. There were all the
various military companies, numbering between
twenty and thirty thousand men, with their
attractive, brilliant uniforms, each company in
a different one. It always causes sad reflec-
tions to see them, for to me they appear as tar-
gets.
	There were many interesting tableaux. There
was the chariot with the Goddess of Liberty,
and little girls dressed in white to represent
the different States. Then a large red wood
bark house, with plenty of evergreen trees, a

[Column 2]
clothes-line with men's drawers, shirt and socks,
one man smoking and playing solitare, whilst
his pard was getting the meal, or grub as it
was called. Then there was an old-fashioned
emigrant train, and on one of the wagon covers
was printed, to "California," and another, to
"'Frisco, or bust." Then a large truck carried
a forest, and in the forest were Pocahontas and
several Indians; they had a real wigwam and
other Indian relics. Then there was Washing-
ton crossing the Delaware River, in a real ves-
sel, and appropriately costumed were the sev-
eral characters. Next came the Jeanette, ice-
bound in the Arctic regions; and the icebergs
were admirably gotten up as to shape, size and
color; they had a blue cast, and were covered
with some glittering substance; even the rig-
ging in the ship was covered with hoar frost,
and as the sun made his appearance during the
procession, it very materially heightened the
effect; for which old Sol has my thanks. The
crew and passengers on this vessel had on fur
clothes, and there were two immense polar
bears in the rear of the bergs. Next came
"The Landing of Columbus," There were
evergreen trees, and Indians peeping through
the bushes and uttering their shrill war whoop.
Then came a Southern scene; there were
bushes on which cotton was growing, and the
darkies picking it and singing and cutting
their queer antics, which created much mirth.
One of the tableaux burned before the pro-
cesson started, so we were minus one.
	It was a noble idea (the introduction of the
tableaux), and we are indebted to Col. An-
drews, of the Dramond Palace, for the original
invention. There were many other new fea-
tures, which I cannot remember sufficiently to
delineate them to you. The procession was
very long; I stood still in one place for over
two hours, and then did not see all.
	Woodward's Garden in the afternoon had
daylight fireworks. They are an entirely new
invention, and were a decided success. They
consist of bombs, and are hurled in the air and
explode; some are men, and the wind causes
the legs and arms to move, and gives the figure
a lifelike appear[-]nce; there were animals and
serpents also. These fireworks will undoubtedly
take the place of the others, as they are not a
success here on account of the evening fog and
wind; they can never get one to burn evenly,
it is a sort of go-as-you-please. Hence fire-
works in the evening here are not very popu-
lar, although there were more than fifty thou-
sand went to see those that were advertised to
take place in the evening of the 5th, but which
were a grand fizzle; only the railroads saw
where the fun was—in the dimes.
	There were, as usual, a great many fires, but
only one large one. There were thirty horses
burned and six firemen injured by the roof
falling on them. It was a terrible fire, and
firecrackers was the cause.
	There were very many accidents with the
small boys, and these will happen where there
are so many children and no place but the
street for them to play.
	The sad accident at Monterey cast a gloom
over many of the companies. It is the fashion
for each of the military companies to take a
trip to the country and camp. Young Burk
was on that pleasure trip when he accidently
met his death through the carelessness of one
of his companions. He was the only son of
Justice Burk, aged 22 years. After the mili-
tary had disbanded from the procession, they
formed again and went to the depot and es-
corted his remains to his residence. The hearse
followed the soldiers. and the band played the
Dead March. The body was in the dead
wagon, which followed the hearse. The dead
wagon was covered with the new flag, and his
gun, boots, and other military accoutrements.
It was the saddest procession I ever saw, and
each passer doffed his hat in respect to one who


was so worthy. “In the midst of life we are in
death.” 
	And so another Fourth has gone.  During
the  excitement I queried wither  it  was  worth
so much expense. and  finally concluded it was,
as  the  rich foot  the bills  and it gives work to
many worthy people, and  an  immense amount
of money  changes hands;  and  in  the  long run
these  celebrations do  much good, besides keep
ing  the  heart warm with the  remembrance  of
our  glorious American Constitution. 
	“Three cheers for America, the home of the
true and the brave."
