NOTES AND  NEWS.
 ADELAIDE  Neilson  is  dead.  How  many
strangers  to  her  personally,  but  witnesses  of
her  magnetic power  upon the stage, will "drop
for  her  the  silent  tear."  A  grand,  lovely,
beautiful  woman,  of  commanding  presence
and  exquisite  grace.  Her  interpretation  of
the muse of Shakespeare, i her life-like  and
vivid  impersonations  of  Juliet,  Imogene  and
Rosalind,  were  indeed  the  fulness  and  com-
pleteness of representation.  Miss Neilson was
endowed with gifts beyond her contemporaries
-we were  going to  say  beyond  herself.  She
held the  audience entranced whenever she ap-
peared.  She  was  a  queen  of  queens  in  her
profession, and right royally she reigned in the
hearts of the admirers  of  the  histrionic  art;
her  audience  never lost a tone  of her melodi-
ous voice, but watched for the words which fell
from her beautiful lips with as much  eagerness
as  if  they  had  been  strings  of  pearls.  She
took  one  back  in  fancy to  the  realms which
Shakespeare  so  exquisitely portrayed with his
immortal  pen.  We  see  his  characters as liv-
ing,  breathing  forms,  and  the  old  churches,
castles,  forests, bowers, and  all  the  vivid  pic-
tures rise before us in their majesty and fitness.
	EDMUND Kirke, in his life  Gen. Garfield,
says  his  driving  Humphrey Marshall  out of
Kentuchy was the most remarkable  campaign
that  occurred during the war  of  the rebellion.
Pres. Lincoln's opinion about it emphasizes the
lesson  of  the  General's life.  "Why," said he
to a distinguished  army officer who chanced to


be  with  him, "why did  Garfield in two weeks
do what would have taken one of  your regular
folks  two  months  to  accomplish?"  "Because
he  was  not  educated  at  West  Point," laugh-
ingly answered the West Pointer.  "No,"  said
Mr. Lincoln, "that  isn't  the  reason.  It is be-
cause when he was a boy he had to work for a
living.--Ex.

	INTO the  Royal  Academy reeeption  walked
a tallish  lady, slender, with delightfully fuzzy,
ruddy  hair,  great  and  gray,  solemn-looking
eyes sending forth serious  glances  from  under
the ruddy hair, tangled very far over the fore-
head.  She was what Mr.  Whistler would  call
a "symphony in yellow."  Her satin gown with
its long  train  was  of  lemon  color;  the  front
thereof was as of lemons candied  into a spark-
ling  condition, and the  sleeves  were of woven
hair, attached  here  and  there  with  sashes, or
belts, or  girdles  stolen from the morning mist.
Necklacewise  hung  jonquils,  and  diamonds
glittered here  and  there.  It  was  Mlle. Bern-
hardt, who seemed not at all interested in the
brilliant company, but  very much  in  the  pic-
tures,  especially  in  Mr.  Millais's  portrait of
Mr. Bright.--The Watchman.


