R. S. REPORTS.

	Minutes of general meeting held in Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Hall, July 17, 1880. President
M. Isabella Horne presiding. Choir sang: "Ill
praise my maker while I've breath." Prayer by
Zina D. Young. Singing "O my Father." Min-
utes of Young Ladies Mutual Improvment Asso-
ciation of the third Ward were read. Also of the
Primary Associations of the 18th and 11th,
Wards. Pres. Horne said, I am pleased to
meet with you and wish to explain that when
Conference interferes with our regular semi-
monthly meetings they stand adjourned until
the next regular meeting day. Pres. Taylor is
expected here this afternoon.
	E. R. Snow said, this is our last meeting be-
fore the 24th of July, and we have some busi-
ness to present relating to the celebration. Yes-
terday Sister Zina and I went to Bountiful, and
held sweet communion with the Relief Society
there. In the afternoon the children assembled
and their deportment and attention made an
impressive appearance. About three hundred
were present their Conference was called unex-
pectedly. We were surprised with their ready
replies to questions. Sister Rogers told us that
of those who attended the association not one

[Column 2]
had died with diphtheria or measles which had
prevailed there. The deaths had all been among
those who did not attend the Primary Associa-
tion.
	If any of the different Ward Relief Societies
have made arrangements to ride in the procession
on the approaching 24th they are requested to
report to this meeting. Arrangements have been
made for carriages for the primary and stake
Representatives. At our meeting in the Council
House I reported 290 Relief Society branches in
the Territory. There are more than ten branches
outside the Ter. 300 Belief Society Branches is
as definite an estimate as we are now able to
make, this number will be inscribed on our
banner.
	Mrs. M. A. Freeze Pres. Young Ladies M. I.
stake organization, said we will be represented
in the procession by central and stake committees,
we wish to honor the occasion as it is one of
importance and not likely to occur again in less
than fifty years.
	Sister Zina D. Young, refered to the Home In-
dustries being represented in the procession.
Said three carriages would be devoted to the silk
department.
	Sister Bathsheba Smith said, one carriage is to
be adorned with ladies ornamental needle work
and I hope the sisters will contribute of their
handiwork to make it creditable.
	President Taylor having arrived, and being in-
vited to address the sisters,said, I was not aware
till last evening of this meeting, at least I had
forgotton it, and had arranged to leave this City
this afternoon,going North to attend meetings at
Ogden, during the Weber Stake Conference. I
understand that one of the objects of this meet-
ing is the ordination of officers of the Relief
Society who were elected at your Conference
held on Saturday June 19, 1880, at the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall.
	On the occasion of the organization of the Re-
lief Society, by the Prophet Joseph Smith
at Nauvoo, I was present Sister Emma Smith
was elected president and Sisters Elizabeth Ann
Whitney and Sarah M. Cleveland her Counsel-
ors. The Prophet Joseph then said that Sister
Emma was named in the revelation recorded in
the Book of Doctrine and Covenants concerning
the Elect Lady, and furthermore that she had
been ordained to expound the Scriptures. By my
request my Secretary Elder L. John Nuttall read
to you relative to this meeting from the "Book
of the Law of the Lord," at your Conference
held June 19th, ult., which explained what was
then done.
	The ordination then given did not mean the
conferring of the Priesthood upon those sisters
yet the sisters hold a portion of the Priesthood
in coneciton with their husbands. (Sisters
Eliza R. Snowand Bathsheba W. Smith,stated
that they so understood it in Nauvoo and have
looked upon italways in that light.)
	As I stated, at that meeting, that I was called
upon by the Prophet Joseph and I did then or-
dain Sisters Whitney and Cleveland, and blessed
Sister Emma and set her apart. I could not
ordain these sisters to anything more or to great-
er powers than had been conferred upon Sister
Emma who had previously been ordained to ex-
pound the Scriptures, and that Joseph said at
that time, that being an elect lady had its signi-
ficance,and that the revelation was then fulfilled
in Sister Emma being thus elected to preside
over the Relief Society.
	However after this organization at Nauvoo,
much disturbance arose among the sisters. I do
not wish to be personal especially as Sister Em-
ma is now dead, but think that some of those
circumstances should be known. Sister Emma
got severely tried in her mind about the doctrine
of Plural Marriage and she made use of the posi-


ition she held to try to pervert the minds of  the
sisters in relation to that  doctrine.  She tried to
influence my first wife and to make  her believe
that the revelation was not correct.  Sister Tay-
lor was very much  troubled  thereat and  asked
me what it meant.  Soon after, the Prophet Jos-
eph was in my house and I spoke to him in my
wife’s presence, in relation to what sister Emma
had said,  and  Joseph  replied, “Sister Emma
would dethrone Jehovah to accomplish her pur-
pose if she sould.” Some  of you  sisters  are ac-
quainted with what I refer to  and  of the  preju-
dice that then existed.
	After the death of the Prophet Joseph, in con-
sequence  of  the  confusion  then  introduced
PresidentB.  Young thought it best to defer  the
the operations of this organization—and the  la-
bors of  the  Society  ceased,  until  he  organized
the sisters again  here in this City.
	Those influences  then  introduced and  then
operating were not right, for  the sisters  in  the
various  organization  since  have  accomplished
much good and should not be deprived  of their
rights and privileges  because  others  have done
wrong.
	Pres. Taylor then set apart the Relief Society
Officers as follows.
	Eliza Roxie  Snow Smith,  I  lay  my  hands
upon thy  head in the  name  of  Jesus  and  by
authority of the holy priesthood  I set thee apart
to preside over the Relief Societies in the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and I confer
on thee this power and authority and ordain thee
to this office, that thou mayst  have power to ex-
pound the Scriptures, and  to  bless, elevate  and
strengthen thy sisters.  The Lord is well pleased
with thee, with  thy  diligence, fidelity  and zeal
in the interest  of  thy  sisters. he has  blessed
thee  exceedingly,  and  will  continue  to  bless
thee forever and ever;  and I bless  thee  with all
thine heart can  desire in righteousness, and seal
upon thee all  former  blessings  conferred  upon
thee by the Holy  Priesthood,  in  the  name of
Jesus. Amen.
	Zina Diantha Young  Smith, I  lay my  hands
upon thee in the name of Jesus and by authority
of the holy priesthood, and ordain thee to be First
Counselor to Eliza R. Snow.  Honor thy calling
which is an honorable one; sustain and assist thy
President and thou shalt have joy in thy labors;
thou shalt be a wise counselor;  the  Lord is well
pleased with  thee  and  will sustain  thee, and no
man shall deprive  thee  of  thy  blessings;  thou
shalt have the gift  to heal  the  sick,  and  thou
shalt be blessed in time and in  eternity; In the
name of Jesus. Amen.
	Elizabeth Ann Smith  Whitney, In the name
of the Lord Jesns Christ  and  by  virtue  of  my
office and calling in  the  holy priesthood, I bless
thee and set thee apart to  be Second  Counselor
to Eliza R.Snow Smith. Thou hast been tried and
found faithful and God has helped thee, and thou
shalt be blessed in thine  old age;  and thy name
shall be honored  through  all generations.  Thy
heart shall be filled with peace and joy,and thou
shalt be a wise counselor in thine old age.  Thou
shalt continue to  be  esteemed  as  a Mother in
Isreal, and  thou shalt  continue to be blessed as
thou hast been;  and when thou  shalt  have fin-
ished thy labors, thou shalt have a place  in  the
Celestial Kingdom of God  with  thine husband.
Thou shalt be blessed with all the blessings and
privileges pertaining to this  office and  calling,in
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen.
Sarah Melissa Granger Kimball.  In the name
of the  Lord  Jesus  Christ and  by  virtue  of  the
holy priesthood I set  thee apart  to the office  of
Secretary of the Relief Societies  in Zion;  to  re-
cord important events and keep a faithful record.
Thou shalt be quick to discern and a ready writer.
Seek more earnestly for the  Spirit of  the Lord,
and thou shalt be blessed more  than  thou  hast
ever had power to  conceive  of.  As  thou  hast
been preserved in life, thou shalt continue to be
preserved.  I seal upon thee, thy  former  bless-
ings, and thou shalt  be honored  in time and in
eternity  and have a seat in  the Celestial King-
dom of God, in the name of Jesus. Amen.
	President Taylor  then  said,  God  bless  the
Treasurer Sister Horne,and bless her with every
blessing that her heart desires in  righteousness,
and Sister Bathsheba Smith, and  God  bless  all
the faithful,  who  love  Israel  and  keep God’s
commandments, do this and every promise here.
tofore made you shall be fulfilled  and more than
now has entered into your  hearts to conceive of.
	The President then took his leave to go by the
afternoon train  to Ogden.
	Sister Bathsheba Smith referred to the Proph-
et  Joseph  instructing  the  sisters  to  conduct
their meetings in accordance with parliamentary
usages.
	Sister Whitney  than sang  one  of  her  sweet
songs of Zion in the language which was spoken
and sung (the Prophet  Joseph  said) by our first
parents in  the  Garden  of  Eden.  Sister  Snow
explained that Joseph Smith told Mother Whit-
ney “If she would use the  gift  with  wisdom  it
should remain with  her as  long  as  she  lived.'
Sister  Zina  then gave the interpreation.  The
theme of which was rejoicing and praise to  the
Great Author and  Giver of good.
	Sister Phebe Woodruff being called on to speak,
said I am greatly pleased to see  my sisters mov-
ing in such  order.  My  heart  rejoices in  what
my eyes have witnessed, and my ears heard this
day.  May we ever be humble and faithful.
	Sister Snow  called attention  to the political
Primary meeting to be held the following Wednes-
day  E.  B.  Wells read  the  call  from  central
committee, political, and urged the sisters to  at-
tend the Primary meeting that  they  would feel
interested enough in the election to vote.  Stake
Pres. M. I. Horne followed  on the same subject.
	Sister Louie Felt  gave  some  instructions to
the Young Ladies relating to the celebrrtion.
	Pres. A. M.  Cannon having  come  in was in-
vited to speak.  Said he  was  pleased and inter-
ested in what he had heard, particularly  what
was said  in  relation  to  voting.  He  hoped the
sisters would remember that “Eternal vigilence,
was  the  price  of liberty.” The  sisters  ought
not to be unmindful of their  political duties and
privileges even though all seemed  calm.  If  all
would vote for  those  who  fear  God  we  would
continue to be a free people.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.  Choir sang,
Doxology.  Benediction  by  President  A.  M.
Cannon.


