			EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.


[Column 1]		
[For the EXPONENT.
	THOUGHTS ON THE POETS;
	The Poets!—say the prophets, for they
are Gemini, i.e. “the Twins.” The poetical
tempe[-]ament is ever prophetic—read the
highest and the best and you will know it.
Isaiah, Ezekiel, David, Solomon and other
biblical characters, were of the highest order
of poets, of whom, like many others of
their brethren, “the world was not worthy.”
	But it is of modern poets, i. e. within the
last few centuries, that I have been think-
ing about and wish now to say a few words
upon; but when I look upon the small space
I must unavoidably occupy, I feel I can
scarcely condense that which would fill
volumes. I will premise that it must ever
be a poet to judge the poets! that complex
nature can only be judged righteously by an
affinity. Lot us for a moment try and de-
fine. the “make up” of the poet nature.
Take a being of our kind, bestow a stronger
imagination and a more delicate sensibility,

[Column 2]
which two will engender a temperament
quick to feel and keen to suffer, and a spe-
cies of martyrdom will be their entrance
into the Temple of Parnassus—and it should
ever be borne in mind that the question, or
the criteria, is not what certain beings are
called upon to suffer, but how they are
formed to bear. In the crude, impromptu
judgment of the would-be “Daniels,” who
so flippantly take that responsible position,
all this is never thought of, or entirely ig-
nored. Persons of common-place minds,
who have no comprehension of the high
vocation of the poets, who have no soul to
soar, or capability to delve with them, or
understand their high office, or their com-
plex nature—yet these, these take the judg-
ment seat, pass the verdict, and believe
their decision is oracular! “Angels and
ministers of grace defend” the poets from
such a “court.” I would like to quote Ten-
nyson’s biting words on such, but I have
not room; suffice they are written. It
seems the highest order of poets had to be
“broken on the wheel” to bring out the
glory of their gift. Tasso, Byron, Shelley,
Pope, Cowper, these and many more were
among the martyrologies—their biographies
are before the world, and fine lessons are to
be derived therefrom.
	Now, like Banquo’s ghosts, let us pass in
review before our mental vision a few of
those gifted beings. W[-] will first take
Goldsmith. Who has not read his “Vicar of
Wakefield?” the original of which was his
own dear father. “The Village Schoolmas-
ter” is drawn from his own early teacher,
and the leading incident in “She stoops to
Conquer” was his own adventure. He had
a great desire for foreign travel, but being
very poor he had not the means; he there-
fore decided, and actually accomplished, a
tour on foot through Holland, France, Ger-
many and Italy; and no doubt these wan-
derings imparted great interest to his writ-
ings. He had no companion but his flute,
which often procured him a night’s lodging,
food and friends. In this way he wandered
over those fair lands, hallowed by past
associations and existent beauty. Observa-
tion was ever his tutor, and by that his
muso was cultivated and his character
formed. He ever carried out the glorious
mission of the poet—that of elevating and
purifying human naturo and alleviating”
“the thousand ills that flesh Is heir to,” as
far as in him lay, and illustrating one of the
beautiful aphorisms of our Savior, that “the
children of this world are, in their genera
tion, wiser than the children of light.”
He took but little thought of the bread that
perisheth, but was one of those beings who
ever d[-]ew around him friends whoso heart
and purse were his when needed; but in
later life his writings and his reputation
earned him a competency, and his friends
were legion.
	Gray was a profound scholar educated in
that most ancient seat of learning Cam-
bridge, England—his life seems to have
been dovoted to the muses and a soreno
enjoymont of life—and had he never writ-
ten anything but his “Elegy in a Country
Church Yard” it would have made his
name immortal. He seems to have had
but two beings on earth whom he loved,
his mother and his college friend, Richard
West. His mother had boon his teach[-]r
and friend, and to her he owed all the
happy associations of his young life. His
friend died young. Gray’s last letter was
returned to him unopened! the cherished
one to whom it was addressed had passed
away. After the disease of his mother he
could never r[-]fer to her without tears—and
by these losses he declared two of the

[Column 3]
sweetest ties of life were broken; and on
her tomb—after speaking of her goodness,
to her children, he adds “One of whom had
the misfortune to survive her.”
	Collins was a poet of great death of feel-
ing, susceptibility, and a beautiful insight
into the workings of the human mind; de-
lineated in his “Ode to the Passions,” his
early life was singularly important, and his
first and only love unrequited. His life
began and ended in sorrow and affliction.
	Pope! Alexander Pope! Born in obscurity,
feeble in frame, deformed in person; yet
that mighty' mind sot all these at defiance,
assumed the reins of his education, and
resolutely launched into the profession of a
poet. He was a wonderful evidence of the
power of mind. Blighted in form, braced
in canvass to hold him upright, and almost
every infirmity, yet he became the terror
of his foes, the envy of his rivals, and the
admiration of his friends. He wielded a
pen whose caustic satire was amply able to
minister either to his self-defense or his re-
venge. In the street he was an object of
pity; at his desk a king. His eyes were
singularly expressive, and his voice uncom-
monly melodious. His talents and reputa-
tion long secured him the society and pro-
fessed friendship of the most brilliant wo-
men of the day, and obtained for him the
faithful care and companionship of Martha
Blount. In reading Pope wo are not carried
away in a torrent of passion as in Byron,
nor molted by a natural sentiment as in
Burns, norexalted by grand imagery as in
Milton. His rationality is approved by our
understanding, but the citadel of the soul
is uninvaded. “The Rape of the Lock,”
has ever boen considered his most charac-
teristic production, and is brilliant and
striking; a trivial incident in fashion,
ablo life engendered it. “The dying
Christian to his Soul” is a sweet and
thrilling production, but there is little in
his poetry that seems the offspring of emo-
tion. His afflictions must have been fatal
to all that inspires emotional poetry, and
every one with an appreciative mind read-
ing will realize how transcendant must
have been that mind that raised him from
all these obvious disadvantages, into a re-
gion where he was the admired, the courted,
the fascinating, I had almost said the demi-
god! Well, I have not time to study out a
more appropriate term. All that desire
can receive it with limitations! Even
Lady Mary W. Montague, the most beauti-
ful and accomplished woman of her day, or
almost any day, was one of his devoted
friends, and their friendship almost become
a love affair. Y[-]t withal Pope was cynical
to his associates, and to women especially.
But they sprung the mine, and he lashed
them with rhyme, without reason, but to
use his own words, “All mankind’s concern
is charity” Let us drug our memories
when we would pass judgment on our
fellow creatures.
		To be continued


