		HOME AFFAIRS.

	SURPRISE PARTY.--A few sisters met at the
residence of Sister Vienna Jacques on Tues-
day, June 10, bringing with them a bountiful
supply of good things for the table, to celebrat[-]

[Column 2]
the birthday of this aged sister. Miss Vienna
Jacques was ninety-two years of age on that
day.  The company enjoyed themselves in
conversation and reading, and as Sister Jacques
is well versed in the early history of the
Church, she rehearsed for their benefit many
incidents that were interesting. She read
them a letter of four pages written to her by
the Prophet Joseph.
	THE RELIEF Society and Young Ladies
Conference of this Stake of Zion will be held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms Fri-
day and Saturday, June 20 and 21, commencing
at 10 o'clock a. m. on Friday. It is hoped the
ss[-]sters will be punctual in attending, as there
are several subjects of importance to lay before
them. An invitation is cordially extended by
the ladies to the brethren, to President John
Taylor and the Apostles, to Bishop Hunter and
his counselors, to Pres. Angus M. Cannon and
Counselors, and to Bishops of wards, hoping
that some of them will find time to attend.
The Primary Associations will be expected to
send reports to this Conference.
	MAX STRAKOSCH'S opera has visited Salt
Lake and given two performances, Saturday
and Monday, evenings, June 7 and 9. Litta,
and Anna Louise Cary, with their fine, rich
voices were the great attraction. People went
to see and hear these celebrated singers, whose
fine musical talents have made them famous.
On each occasion only parts of operas were
given, which was simply absurd, for there is
not a place of its size in the world where the
finest music is better appreciated than in this
city.  The mad scene from "Lucia" was exqui-
sitely rendered on Monday evening by Litta.
Indeed, both ladies have charming voices.
There should, however, have been a full or-
chestra and an entire opera to satisfy the audi-
ence.
	MADAME BROLOWKY'S lecture in the Inde
pendence Hall on Sunday evening, June 8, was
well attended. Her subject was Russia, Poland
and the Siberian exile, with personal reminis-
ences. It was interesting throughout, and
some parts were humorous, which added to
the entertainment. Her foreign accent was
appropriate to the subject and made one feel
more impressed with the sketches she drew of
the people of those countries. By request of
the lady, "America" was sung at the close of
the lecture, and on motion of Prof. Benner the
lady was invited to speak again at the same
place. She announced as her subject The Cos-
sacks and her own personal experiences.
	We have had the pleasure of receiving one
or two calls from Madame Brolowky, and
found her extremely entertaining in conversa-
tion on all general subjects, bnt more especially
upon medicine and anatomy, which are her
favorite themes. The lady graduated in these
sciences at Zurich in Switzerland.
	THE QUARTERLY Conference of the Y. M.
and Y. L. Improvement Associations was held
in the Farmington Meeting House, Sunday,
May 18, commencing at 10 o'clock a. m. It
was a conjoint meeting, the officers of both As-
sociations occupying the stand. The reports
from various branches were very creditable,
and indicated that rapid improvement is being
made among the young people of both sexes.
One thing noticeable and very gratifying is the
efforts they are making to secure libraries of
good and useful books. Excellent and enter-
taining addresses were given in a pleasing
manner by Pres. Roberts, Eld[-]r Wm. S. Bur-
ton, Territorial Pres. J. F. W[-]lls, and others.
Pres. Wm. Smith spoke very strongly upon
the importance of serving God, and Counselor


Anson Call made a few remarks, in which he
highly commended the manner of conducting
the meeting, uniting together men and women.
Said it was the first meeting he had attended
where women had been allowed to have equal
privileges and rights. Pres. Clark and other
ladies made very good and suitable remarks;
also Mrs. E S. Taylor and Mrs. E. B. Wells of
Salt Lake Lake City.

	ON MONDAY evening, June 16, the drama
“Two orphans” will be performed in the Salt
Lake Theatre, by a company composed of am-
ateurs and professionals, who have kindly con-
sented to take part on this occasion in consid-
eration of its being a complimentary benefit to
Miss Asenath A. Adams, a favorite upon the
Salt Lake stage in former days, and who is here
now on a visit. The lady amateurs who are to
take part are Miss Keetia Heywood, Miss
Annie Wells; the gentlemen, Messrs. L. A,
Cummings, O. F. Whitney, J. D. White, John
D. Spencer, Hebe M. Wells, Frank D. Kimball,
H. G. Whitney, J. McCurdy and J. Hill. Miss
Adams will enact Louise, Mrs. Della Cum-
mings, Henriette; Mrs. Harris, Marianne;
Edith Clawson, Florette; and little Maud
Adams, the little market girl. Besides these,
W. T. Harris will enact the character of La
Frochard, the old beggar woman, and Messrs.
Olsen, Evans and Riser, of the theatrical com-
pany, will appear. Rehearsals and other pre-
parations are being made to insure success. We
cannot but think, knowing so well the ability
and tact of these amateurs and the talent of the
professionals, that the performance will be a
decided success, and as the amateurs, or most
of them are numbered among our relatives and
particular friends, we most heartily wish it,
also for the sake of Miss Adams, in whose honor
the benefit is politely tendered.

	THE SISTERS who are active in organizing
societies among the Latter day Saint women
and children have been busily engaged of late
in visiting in wards and settlements, and en-
couraging the people to improve in wisdom
and knowledge and grow in grace. Sisters E.
R. Snow and M. I. Horne left this city Wed-
nesday, May 14, and made rather an extended
tour, visiting the principal places in Juab,
Sanpete and Sevier Counties. At Nephi they
held a special meeting, and organized a Silk
Association in Juab Stake. At Fountain Green
they were met by Sister Mary Ann Hyde of
Spring City, Pres. of R. S. of Sanpete Stake,
who traveled with them through that county.
They also organized a Silk Association in that
Stake. Sister Anna Irons also joined their
party at Moroni. All these ladies are efficient
workers in the good cause of progression and
improvement, and no doubt they have been
the means of doing great good, in stimulating
and inspiring to good works those who are
more remote from the centre Stake of Zion.
The ladles reached Richfield in time to attend
the Stake Conference, and there, under the
auspices of Pres. Spencer, they effected a Re-
lief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. organization for
Sevier Stake. In all they held twenty-eight
meetings, all well attended. Eight Primary
Associations were organized, and the Associa-
tion at Pleasant Grove re-organized.

	OLD FOLKS EXCURSION: On Tuesday, June
24th there is to be an excursion for the old peo-
ple of this city from 70 years old and upwards.
The place of destination this time is American
Fork. An invitation is extended to all, and
the Bishops and Presidents of Relief Societies
will see that in their respective wards no one is
passed by without receiving an invitation. We
hope and trust that all things may be propitious,
and that it may be an enjoyable time for the

participators. It is certainly commendable in
those who were instrumental in introducing
this custom. To give enjoyment, recreation
and pleasure to the aged, is pleasing to God and
to all good people. A holiday with a ride on
the cars, music, and other sources of enter-
tainment must be a relief from the monotony
of every-day life to those who cannot engage
in active pursuits and must necessarily be oft-
times lonely and to many the days drag wear-
ily along. Give honor to the aged and infirm,
and reverence those whose days of usefulness
are nearly at an end, lighten their hearts as
much as possible. May the day's enjoyment
exceed the anticipation of all those for whom
the excursion was given.

	ON THE morning of April 30, in company
with Sister Eliza R. Snow we left this city in-
tending to visit Malad Valley. The same af-
ternoon we attended quite a large meeting of
the Relief Society in Brigham City. We learn-
ed from the sisters there that the children of
the Primary Association have a full lot planted
with white beans, which they expect to store
up. Mrs. Mary Stark of that place is skilled in
the art of making artificial flowers, and teach-
es classes; if there are any young ladies, desir-
ous of promoting this beautiful department of
home industry, they should take lessons from
Mrs. Stark, who understands the business
thoroughly, and takes pleasure in teaching it.
May Day morning, with Sisters E. R. Snow
and H. A. Snow we proceeded on our way by
train to Hampton Station. At the station El-
der Jarvis Mansfield met our party with a car-
riage and as there was another carriage load of
ladies from Brigham City, it made quite a
large and pleasant party. Just after leaving
Hampton Station the road makes a narrow cut
around a corner of the mountain termed a
dugway, and just below lies a small, green vale
where a farm has been made and house built
quite alone where weary travelers may find,
food and rest.
	We soon passed over Bear River, and drove
over such a barren waste of country, scarce
anything to be seen but grease wood and sage-
brush for some miles; the only attraction be-
ing the mountains in the distance. We past
through Plymouth, and at East Portage we
stopped and took dinner at Brother Mans-
field's, then drove on to West Portage, where
Bishop Hoskins and family with true Western
hospitality received us all cordially. A meet-
ing had been appointed at 4 o'clock p.m. It
was well attended by brethren and sisters, and
an appointment given out to organize a Primary
association next morning. According to the
notice given the children met together, the
Bishop and Counselors and as many people as
could gain admittance, and“Sister Eliza" organ-
ized the Primary Association. Emma Halford
was elected President, Jane Hall and Emma
Landon, Counselors, Miss Matilda Gibbs Sec-
retary, and Miss Almira Hall Treasurer. Fifty-
nine children were then sustained as members.
Another general meeting was hold in the af-
ternoon, all were well attended; our party
while there were kindly entertained at the
Blshop’s and Elder John D. Gibbs.
	On Saturday morning the two carriage loads
of us wended our way towards Malad. The
day was a very cold one, consequently we could 
not admire the scenery, the wind was very
high, and altogether the morning ride was a
very unpleasant one. However Brother Mans-
field pointed out all the principal points of in-
terest and showed us the land mark that di-
vided the Territories of Utah and Idaho. We
stopped at Samaria and dined at Mrs. Evans,
and although we were unexpected guests, the
excellent dinner of chicken, vegetables, hot

biscuit and other luxuries was hastily prepared
and served, of which we all partook with a
good relish after the cold ride, and we were
very soon again on our way; reached Malad
about two o'clock and were met and welcomed
by Bishop Dunford. The Relief Society con-
ference commenced at three o'clock in the
meeting-house, which had been very beauti-
fully decorated for the occasion with ever-
greens, and with artifical flowers, made by the
sisters; it looked quite refreshing after our long
cold ride. Many brethren and sisters were
present from other settlements; and the meet-
ings were crowded. The conference continued
two days. Sunday evening the Relief Society
of Malad was reorganized. Mrs. Ann Sawyer
was elected President, Jane Williams and Es-
ther Lusk Counselors, Elizabeth W. Jenkins,
Secretary and Anna E. Thomas, Treasurer. On
Monday morning, accompanied by Bishop
Dunford and others from Malad, our party vis-
ited St. John’s and held meeting at 10 o'clock,
in the school-house, and “Sister Eliza" organized
the children in a Primary Association. Han-
nah James was elected President, Emily Kent
and Ann C. Jones Counselors, Mary Ann Dud-
ley Secretary, David C. Jones, Assistant Secre-
tary, Elizabeth Darnings, Treasurer. Twenty-
six children were enrolled. Pres. Lewis Lewis
has charge of the branch, and manifested great
interest in the organization, and informed us
that in that small settlement there were over
50 children under eight years of age. We all
returned to Malad and at 4 o’clock held another
meeting and “Sister Eliza” organized the Pri-
mary Association of that place. Mary Jane
Evans was elected President, Elvira Reese and
Mary Bolingbroke, Counselors, Alice Evans,
Secretary, Edward Colton Assistant Secretary,
Catharine Price, Treasurer.
	Tuesday morning drove over to Samaria,
where a meeting was hold In the afternoon to
organize a Primary Association. Amy S. Davis
was elected President, Emeline E. Thomas
and Mary A. Hughes, Counselors, Rose Crab-
tree, Secretary, John H. Davis Assistant Sec-
retary, George Davis, Treasurer. In the even-
ing there was a general meeting, the house was
filled. Samaria is a thriving town, and the
people have the advantage there of a good
supply of water for the land, but the grasshop-
pers are very thick in Malad Valley this year.
Samaria contains 55 families of Latter-day
Saints, including 500 persons, and in the last
ten years there have been only twelve deaths:
three of these died of old age.
	Early on Wednesday morning our party
drove over to Cherry Creek, where two meet-
ings were held, Relief Society meeting in the
morning, at which time the Society was
reorganized, under the direction of Bishop Dun-
ford and President Jones, who has charge of
the Cherry Creek Branch. Mrs. Sarah J.
Dudley was sustained as President, Mary Jones
and Elizabeth Chivers, Counselors, Sarah A.
Jones, Secretary, Emily Reese, Treasurer. In
the afternoon “Sister Eliza” organized the
Primary Association. Sarah Ann Jones was
elected President, Catherine Jones and Mar-
garet Chivers, Counselors, Christopher M.
Gardner, Secretary, Joanna Williams Assistant
Secretary, Edwin Williams Treasurer; 17 mem-
bers enrolled.
	Immediately after the meeting the party
wended their way towards East Portage. There
were people from all the settlements round,
Bishops and brethren as well as sisters, who
all seemed delighted with the sisters' meetings.
This ride was a very pleasant one, the day was
fine and the country looked beautiful, notwith
standing the havoc of the grasshoppers. Large
verdant meadows, yellow with buttercups,
variegated with daises and redbells, and


stretching away in the distance, the fields of
wheat, oats, and corn, and more abundant
than all these patches of luxuriant lucerne.
Scattered along the road, a few miles apart are
Willow Springs, Anderson Creek, Oregon
Springs and Allen String Settlements. Bro.
Mansfield pointed out the old town of Portage
where the people first tried to build up the
town. Showed us the trail from one chain of
mountains to the other across the entire valley,
where the Shoshone Indians have been accus-
tomed to travel ever since the country was
settled by the Mormons.
	At East Portage a general meeting was
held in the school-house, well attended. The
school-house stands quite alone, almost under
the brow of the high mountain. The settle-
ment is quite scattered, as most of these small
places in the country are. In the morning
Brother Mansfield showed us over his grounds,
which are very pleasant, a little artificial lake
formed from springs near his house, with young
trees growing near, was quite charming in
this almost wild country. The mountain
scenery everywhere is grand, and to us it is
ever a rest and relief, there is always some-
thing sublime in gazing at these wonderful
Rocky Mountains. Bro. and Sister Mansfield
entertained six of us strong-minded women,
and certainly we should remember their kind-
ness in taking three of us in their carriage from
Hampton Station all over Malad Valley and
bringing us so far on our way home. Every-
where we went we found the people more than
glad to see the ladies and hear them talk.


