WORKING WOMEN IN LONDON.

	To give our readers an idea of the condi-
tion of working women in London, we copy
from the “English Woman’s Review” an
account of a crowded meeting of working
women belonging to the Pimlico Army
Clothing Factory, held on the evening of
April 16, 1879, in the Portcullis Hall, West-
minster, Mr. Hodgson Pratt, Chairman,
who invited any of the women present to
state all facts concerning the reduction of
wages. Without giving full particulars of
prices, etc., we will say the reduction was
such that they determined to memorialize
the Secretary of War for and see if any
change could be made by which they could
subsist by their hard work. In setting
forth their grievances in the Memorial they
state, that while they suffered from a re-
duction of wages, and also from not being
allowed to take work home as formerly, the
salaries of certain officers of the establish-
ment had been increased. Signed on be-
half of a meeting of upwards of 700 wo-
men and at their unanimous request, by
the Chairman, Hodgson Pratt, late member
of the Indian Civil Service.
	“Nearly one thousand female machine
workers assembled in the vicinity of West-
minster Palace the following afternoon,
previous to the re-assembling of the mem-
bers of the House of Commons after the
Easter recess, the object of the promoters
being to represent their grievances with re-
spect to the recent reduction of wages,
which affects about 1,500 persons. The
proposed formation of a procession having
been forbidden by the police, who were sta-
tioned in the street in extra force, it was
necessary to hold a consultation as to the
mode of procedure. Again the Portcullis
Hall was hastily engaged, and at once filled.
The general opinion of the meeting was
that it would be well to appear at the House
of Commons, with a view of enlightening
the members of Parliament generally as to
the large number of women affected by the
reductions. It was accordingly agreed that
the House should be reached in irregular
procession, the party separating and taking
different streets on the route. By half-past
4 o’clock the large deputation met at the


gates of Palace Yard, which were guarded
by a strong body of police. The women
were sent by the police to the opposite side
of the road. There they remained in solid
ranks seven and eight deep, a most orderly
crowd, for nearly an hour, while six of their
number with the Rev. Stewart D. Head-
lam, Mr. Harper, and Mr. and Mrs. Pater-
son, gained admission to the outer lobby of
the House, and interviewed Sir Charles
Dilke, Mr. Leonard Courtney and Mr. Dil-
wyn, who expressed their sympathy and
promised to give any help in their power
when the subject should be brought before
the notice of Parliament. The deputation
stated their grievances at some length. It
was alleged that in the majority of instances
the reduction of wages varied from 5s. to
10s. a week. The women also complain
that they are not allowed to take their
work home as formerly, their earnings be-
ing further reduced by the new arrange-
ment. An additional force of police was
on duty outside the House of Parliament
during the afternoon.
	The matter complained of by the women
was brought before the House of Commons
on April 21, by Mr. Mundella, and was
thoroughly discussed, though not satisfacto-
rily decided.”


