EARLY EDUCATION.
In the present day much is said and written
of the principles taught in early life. Wo know
the early training has a direct bearing upon
the cbiid. Few young people, when they enter
upon their married life, realize this subject as
they ought. It is only In maturer years, when
all the mischief has been done, that people
actually comprehend the truth in regard to the
matter. But with the higher education of this
age, and the larger development in spheres of
usefulness, the training of the little ones
should form a moat important feature. And
attempt to draw the line as one may, the re-
sponsibility must and does fall more heavily
upon the mother. A thousand proofs could be
brought forward to substantiate this assertion;
yet the father Is not exempt, and should cer-
tainly use all the means in his power to make
the condition of the mother a happy one, and
her task delightful, instead of irksome; and to
relieve her occasionally, as far as possible, that
her health might not suffer under the accumu-
lation of cares, and for want of fresh air. and
a little change of scene. But O, how many
mothers there are in this free land who are per-
fect Blavee, and so tired and weary do they be-
come, that they have no vigor, or inspiration,
to help them bear their weary burdens. If'this
could be remedied, if there was more real,
genuine Jove and less selfishness, how much
easier would the routine ot woman’s daily life
become.
But accepting such conditions as exist, let us
go back to early education. Granted that it is
the most permanent in its nature, then how
careful should parents be to begin aright." The
earliest Impressions are indelibly engraven up-
on the human heart, and the characteristics of
individuals are quite as much the result of
early discipline as of Inherent faculties. How
many gifted children have grown up weak in
all that weuld make them useful members of
society, because they have never been taught
the necessity of application and perseverance
under difficulties, consequently they become
unrellant and vacillating, often despondent,
and are more or less a hindrance instead of a
help wherever they may be.
Too much pains cannot be taken in the home
education of children. There are many little
essons to teach them as soon as their powers
begin to expand, long before they can be taught
the alphabet, and one thing which is greatly
neglected by parents is the’ manners of the
children.
Politeness should form an essential part of
the early education. It is always and every-
where a recommendation, and if it Is neglected
in childhood, it is very difficult to acquire after,
wards; will need some persistency of effort
at all events, Thi people desire to have their
children instructed In everything that will re-
fine them; then they must not wait until they
are half-grown heforo they teach them the sim-
ple rules of politeness and Initiate them into
that gracefulness of manner that will make
them pleasing on all occasions. There Is al-
most always a natural grace that children are
born with, and if this is cultivated, instead of
allowing them to grow into awkwardne?a
through their manner of treatment, it would
render thorn much more attractive. Politeness
is a delicate subject to treat upon, but it is
one thatehould be studied. It may be said
the children only follow the exnmplo of the
oldor ones, and this is true, but If parents Want,
their children to become like unto polished
stones they must commence fo teach them
early, both by example and precept.
 Modesty is a quality that should be instilled
into the minds of children, and It requires a
vast amount of tact to so discipline children
that modesty will be blended with politeness,
and a quiet grace of manner, in such a way
that they may not be too forward or too indif-
ferent. Wo hear a great deal about the modei-
ty of little girls, but it would be well if this
was also considered a requisite characteristic
In the training of boys. How much more
charming would little boys be If they were as
carefully Instructed to be modest as girls
usually are. In too many Instances mothers
are not so watchful over their boys as girls: “O
he’s a boy, It does not matter so much,” wo
have often heard, but it does matter just as
much what companions he has, what his hab-
its are, and what his behavior is. “Oh, boys are
so rude and coarse,” mothers often say; well,
then, don’t send them out of your sight because
It annoys you, and let them be thrown into the
society of other boys who throng the street?
and alleys, and who have not had the training
and the love you can give your boys.but watch
over them a? cautiously and be as judicious In
regard to them as you are with your girls.
They are Just as much yourespecial care, and
if mothers would do this there would be fewer
complaints of bad boys in the streets.
Children are a heritage from the Lord, in the
language of Scripture, but too often in the
rearing of children it is not considered, and
they are suffered to grow up with very little
knowledge and irregular discipline, and their
little feet wander into by and forbidden paths,
and before the parents are scarcely aware of it,
evil habits are formed that It takes efficient
effort to correct. How few young women en-
ter upon the duties of married life with mature
thought upon the subject of motherhood; and
yet it is the grandest, noble3t and most soul-
inspiring theme, for it lays at the very founda-
tion of life and happiness, and needs the high-
est education as well as the moat favorable
surroundings possible, in order to develop the
best and holiest tendencies.
 Motherhood and its duties, with the early
training of the little ones, is a subject which
women should more wisely aud fully consider,
for it is a vocation in which more women fail
than In any other. And oh, to fail as a mother
how terrible the conseqlittlees. What greater 
encomium of praise can be conferred upon a
woman than that of being a loving, tender,
prudent and wise mother, that has reared chil-
dren in the principles of truth, honesty
integrity, and the fear of God?


[Column 1]
