	KANAB, UTAH. MAY 19, 1879.


[Column 1]
		[For the EXPONENT.
	HOME.

	Home is woman’s world.  The most sa-
cred, peaceful, beloved and heaven-born
place that earth contains. The resting-place
of the weary, the hospital of the sick, the
visiting-place of angels, and the favorite re-
sort of the Spirit of God. It is in the sweet
confines of home that are experienced the
most refined and heartfelt joys, the deepest
affections, the truest friendships, the grand-
est emotions, and the most fervent, devout
and sincere acknowledgments of the great-
ness and goodness of God. Therefore, I
would impress upon the minds of my sis-
ters the great importance of studying how
to make home pleasant. Every young wo-
man expects, and is expected, to preside
over a home, and be a mother in that home;
and unless she enters her field of labor with
an idea of its importance and a knowledge
of its duties, her life is sure to be one de-
void of comfort and happiness.
	In the true Christian home mother is the
mainspring—the center, round which all
its joys revolve. Home has no charm when
bereft of a mother. It is her gentle love
and devotion, her tender words and acts,
her kind manners and intelligent and ele-
vating influence, that makes the charm of
home greater than all others. If home
possessed no other charm, the presence of
mother would make it glorious and sub-
lime.
	Our very lives are governed by love, and
where is there an affection so pure and
true, so free from selfishness and dross, so
forgiving, charitable and vividly alive to
our interests, as a mother’s? It is the great
refreshing fountain of life! What glorious
love is pictured in a mother’s face, as she
fondly gazes on her sleeping child, as she
nurses it in its tender infancy, watches over
it in hours of sickness, toils for its happi-
ness, counsels it to goodness and virtue,
and mourns to see it following the paths of
vice! Home has no force, capacity, or in-
fluence without a mother’s love. God
plants in homes the seeds that shall bring
forth fruit meet for heaven; and thus we
see the great necessity for educating our-
selves in all the practical walks of life.
There is no sphere of labor under the hea-
vens greater than that of woman’s. She is
the main educator in the sacred home cir-
cle, and the more sterling goodness, Intel-
lectual and refined ability she possesses, the
greater is her capacity for doing good, and
the more sure is she to create that heaven-
born bliss, that Eden which home should
be. O sisters! let us strive to make our
homes a great life-school, wherein shall be
taught all the great value of virtue, and the
true nobility of labor. Think not that fine
houses elegantly furnished, lovely gardens,
or something more beautiful and costly
than your neighbor’s, constitute home, far
it is something far ahead of this. It is the
influence, the associations, the spirit which
is within, that makes home. Home is wo-
man’s world, her kingdom, and she will

[Column 2]
reign over it always. She may go out into
the world, and visit the poor; fill responsi-
ble positions, engage in teaching, or lectur-
ing, write books, or go on missions of mercy,
and she will still love, best of all places in
the world, her home. It is natural to her;
God has implanted those feelings in her bo-
som.  But woman should not be content
with simply her domestic duties; she should
have a choice of labor, and then study con-
stantly to prepare herself for her duties.
Woman should not be shut out of any em-
ployment in the whole world, but should
be allowed equal advantages and opportu-
nities with her brother, to seek employ-
ment, usefulness and happiness wherever
she can find it; and I am assured that home
would be all the better for it, as this would
improve her mind and ability to minister
in love at home. If woman could have
the encouragement, or chance, in the great
field of labor that man has, she would not
lack skill, or ability; but in nearly all cases
she is compelled to labor in her home en-
tirely, with no change and no alternative.
Give her the privilege of selecting her vo-
cation, she will readily prove her sense of
propriety and good judgment in choosing
her sphere of action. Then will she choose
the sequestered scenes of home, not from
stern necessity, but from her true woman’s
heart; and God has nobly fitted woman to
be the heart, the guardian, the ministering
angel, the supreme genius of home. Then,
dear sisters, let us strive continually, seek-
ing the aid of God, to make our homes a
haven of peace, a quiet, sequestered spot,
where our loved ones may dwell in the
genial bonds of friendship, in the holy ties
of love, making it a school for mental,
moral and spiritual improvement, where
love shall reign, where chastity shall impart
her rays of peace, bringing contentment,
virtue and goodness, where we can talk of
and teach the principles of our eternal re-
ligion, and then, indeed, shall our homes be
complete. Then our homes shall be worthy
the name.
	And if we would make them what I have
tried to portray, we must guard our every
action, for of all places in the world home
is the most sensitive. At home words that
we would pass by unnoticed when abroad
wound us to the quick. There we assume
no airs or affectation; our hearts are bare,
and every little spark burns us.  We can
bear very little, and if we would have our
home a true one, we must carefully guard
our words and actions, be kind and cour-
teous in our address, polite and gentle in
our manners, honest and true in our very
thoughts, thus giving no opportunity for
wounded feelings, or offence.
	Let us not be discouraged by the efforts
of our enemies to rob us of our peace and
home associations, “so far can they go and
no farther.” God is on our side, and He Is
greater than all. Although we all feel in-
dignant at the great outrage lately forced
upon our respected friend, Bro. Wells, we
must not question the judgment of God. It
was for some wise purpose, and I venture
to say he is far happier than his enemies,
and instead of their persecutions devastat-
ing our homes, it will only serve to renew
our faith, double our energy, more closely
unite our hearts, and strengthen our deter-
mination to serve God rather than man.
	Richfield.	CELIA.


WHAT I admire in Columbus is not his
having discovered a world, but his having
gone to search for it on the faith of an
opinion.—Turgot.


