WOMAN’S VOICE.

	With much pleasure I read the deter-
mination of the sisters throughout the terri-
tory, to sustain the principles of the Gos-
pel they have received. Not only the doc-
trine of baptism, and the laying on of hands
but that of Plural Marriage, (as expressed
by them through the EXPONENT.) and all
the commandments God gives to His Saints
in these last days.
	We women of the Church of Jesus Christ,
will sustain our husbands and fathers, and
encourage our brothers, and sons, and
daughters, to obey the laws of God. The
Lord has said, by His Prophet Joseph
Smith, that if we observe the laws of God,
we have no need to break the laws of the
land. We cannot regard the late decision
of the Supreme Court, as the law of the
land; because the Constitution provides,
that “Congress shall make no law respect-
ing religion, and the free exercise thereof.”
When the Constitution reads thus, how
can we consider that this law should be re-
ceived as a law of the land. I believe it
has been done to crush this people: what
business have they in any way to annoy us
on account of our religion? I do not con-
sider they have any. They cannot over-
throw it, not even one of its principles. We
might as well discard the whole as to do
away with one of the principles of our most
holy religion, (though it might be consider-
ed the least.) This Gospel is the same as
the one the Apostle Paul describes, com-
paring it to a body [1 Corinthians 12 Chap.]
We cannot do without one principle, that
has been revealed, we cannot do without
repentance, or baptism, or the laying on of
hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost; we
cannot do without revelation and the prop-
erly organized priesthood of the son of God.
Neither can we do without Celestial Mar-
riage, and the ordinances of the house of
God.
	This people want to benefit the whole
human family, to gather Israel, and bring
about the reign of peace on the earth, and
we will by the help of God accomplish the
work He has sent us to do. Our enemies
may think they can destroy the institutions
of this Church, but as sure as the God of
Israel reigns on high, just so sure will


their plans come to naught, and Israel will
triumph.
	We will instruct our children, in the laws
of the Lord, and teach them to fear Him,
who is able to destroy both body and soul.
We will teach them also to observe the laws
of the land, whether they are just or unjust,
but we dare not teach them to disobey the
Most High.
					Yours respectfully,
						Rebecca E. Mace.
