			SANTA CLARA, UTAH.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have just returned from fast-day meet-
ing, and agreeable to your request try to
tell you a little about this remote place
called Santa Clara. It is the most southern
settlement in Utah Territory. It contains
about thirty-five families, mostly from
Switzerland. They are a very industrious,
hard-working people, and I think, with a
few exceptions are striving to be Latter-
day Saints; these few seem to have forgot-
ten, or rather left their first love for the
Gospel, which prompted them to leave
their native land and cross the mighty
ocean, and the sterile plains to find a home
with the people of God, where they might
be instructed in the ways of the Lord, and
prepare for the great day of his coming.
	Our near proximity to mining camps
seems to have affected a few. Yet there
is a goodly number living their religion and
aiming to carry out the counsels of the ser-
vants of God, who are appointed to lead us.
	We are about five miles from the St.
George temple which gives us an excellent
opportunity of working for those behind
the vail. This is a great blessing, I ap-
preciate it more than any earthly treasure.
	Our Bishop is a good man and so are his
counselors. We have a Relief Society


who are doing pretty well. They have a
lot partly planted with mulberry trees, and
are trying to build a house in which to
meet, and also to raise silk-worms in com-
pliance with our late Preisdent's instruc-
tions.
	Our Relief Society house is thirty-six by
forty feet and is two story; the upper part
designed for a cocoonry, and the lower part
for working, and meetings of the society,
also a store-room, as we intend to carry out
the counsel given to store up grain. The
walls of our house are up, and we expect to
have it covered soon.
	You will please pardon me while I di-
gress from my subject to make honorable
mention of Sister Stringham, who came in
the spring of 1878 and instructed us in seri-
culture. Her labors were indefatigable
here, and especially so in St. George; in-
structing us in attending to our silk culture.
May God bless and reward her is my prayer.
	We have a Y. L. M. I. A. doing pretty
well, I think and believe it has been a
blessing to our young people.
	Our Sabbath School numbers about sev-
enty-five under the superintendance of
John Keller, it is doing well.
	I feel we are a blest people, yea especi-
ally blest of the Lord, or we could never
have accumulated the necessaries and many
of the comforts of life that we enjoy, here
in this barren and sterile country.
	The hand of the Lord has been over us
for good all the day long, for which I am
grateful.
	May peace, wisdom and prosperity con-
tinue to be and abide with you, and may
the EXPONENT continue to be an instru-
ment in the ha nds of God of disseminating
light and truth is the prayer of your sister
in the cause of truth and right.
						With respect,
