SUMMIT STAKE.

	Our second Quarterly Stake Conference
of the Relief Societies of this Stake of Zion
was held on Friday April 25, 1879, in Wan-
ship at "Youngs Hall" (kindly lent for the
occasion.) The conference convened at
10, a. m. and was opened with the usual
exercises. Sister S. S. Richards President,
Sisters Ann Cluff and Mary W, Reynolds
Counselors, Sister Rhead and Sisters
Stevenson and Frost of the Presidency
of the Y. L. M. I. Association of the
stake were present; as also President W.
W. Cluff, Bishops Salmon, Atwood, Mar-
chant and Stanley and others of the Priest-
hood by the Sisters invitation. The Relief
Societies of the Stake were all represented
by personal representatives except Almy
and Evanston Wards, from whom written
reports were received. Statistical and 
financial reports of the Societies were read.
Remarks were made by Sisters Richards
and Reynolds, upon our duties as Saints of
the Most High, and of the blessings acquir-
ed through faithfulness, and the sisters urg-
ed upon parents to train up their children
in the way they should go. A report of
the Y. L. M. I, Association was read by
Sister Lizzie Bull, and a few appropriate
remarks were made by President Eliza
Rhead. Conference acjourned till 2, p. m
	Afternoon Session:—The Conference was
opened in the usual manner. The condi-
tion of the various ward societies were giv-
en verbally by the presidents or other
proper representatives, all of which were
represented to be in favorable condition
and good standing.
	The Stake officers of the organization
were put before the Conference and unani-
mously sustained, as were also the Presi-
dents and Counselors of the various ward
societies. Appropriate remarks were made
by Pres. Cluff, Bishops Atwood, Marchant
and Stanley. They expressed their admira-
tion of the business-like manner in which
the Conference was conducted.
	On motion it was agreed that our Con-
ference hereafter be held semi-annually.
	The following report statistical and
financial, of the various societies compris-
ing the stake orgsnization from their first
organization embodying a period of eleven
years for some, and three and four years
for others were read.

