	WOMEN IN THE ORDER OF GOOD TEM-
PLARS.—We have often already had occa-
sion to notice that women are equally eligi-
ble with men to fill all the offices of this
large and far-reaching Association. At
the Annual Session held in Hull during
Easter week, Miss Helena Richardson, a
member of the Bristol School Board, was
elected Grand Worthy Vice Templar of the
Order of Good Templars. Miss Hannah
Young of Colesley, Stratfordshire, was ap-
pointed Grand Superintendent of the juve-
nile portion of the Order; Mrs. Boys of
Petersfield was appointed Assistant Grand
Worthy Secretary, and Mrs. Walshaw, of
Halifax, Deputy Grand Marshal.—Ex.

	THE FIFTH winter session of the London
School of Medicine for Women, closed on
the 31st of last March. Twenty-eight stu-
dents in all attended the school and hos-
pital, of whom eight were first year's
students. Lectures on anatomy, chemis-
try, physiology, practice of medicine, prac-
tice of surgery, and a course of practical
anatomy with demonstrations, were given
at the school, and clinical instruction, and
lectures on clinical medicine, and clinical
surgery, at the hospital. The summer ses-
sion opened on May 1. Lectures on botany,
chemistry, Forensic medicine, midwifery,
and diseases of women, pathology, and
zoology, are given, and ladies who are not
medical students may be admitted as occa-
sional students.

	THE ANNUAL Meeting of the Central
Committee of the National Society for Wo-
men's Suffrage was held in Willis's Rooms,
London, on May 9. A business meeting
took place at 3 o'clock p. m.; after which
the public meeting began Mr. Leonard
Courtney, M. P., took the chair. Mrs. P.
A. Taylor, Miss Cobden, Rev. Brook Lam-
bert, Sir D. Wedderburn, M. P., Mrs. Hal-
let, &c., were among the speakers.
	Lectures have been given on this subject
within the last month at Gravesend, Roch-
ester, Canterbury, Ashford and Tonbridge.
	A large and influential drawing-room
meeting was held at the house of Mrs.
Thos. Taylor, Hyde Park Gardens, W., on
May 12, and another on May 14, by Vis-
countess Harberton, 119, Cromwell Road.
At both the question was discussed by ad-
vocates and opponents. There is every
hope that the suffrage work will be carried
on successfully, and widely extended dur-
ing the next year.

	ON APRIL 29, the annual tea and soiree
of the National Union of Working Women
was held at the Star coffee-house, Old Mar-
ket Street, when upwards of a hundred
members and friends assembled. The fol-
lowing ladies and gentlemen were present:
Mrs. Beddoe (who presided), the Misses
Beddoe, Mrs. Hargrave, the Misses Priest-
man, Miss K. Blage, Miss Sturge, Mrs.
Greenwell, Miss Merrick, Mr. Alan Green-

[Column 2]
well, M. A., Rev. Mr. Hargrave, Mr.
Brown, Mr. Jones, &c.
	Mr. Alan Greenwell expressed his grati-
fication at seeing so many present, and
pointed out the necessity of women com-
bining for mutual benefit the same as men.
In case of being out of work, in case of
sickness or death, by being members of
that association they would have something
to fall back upon in time of need. Benefit
societies for females were calculated to do a
vast amount of good. Co-operating one
with another would certainly tend to their
advancement, and the indifference to union,
heretofore displayed, was the greatest hin-
drance to woman's progress. Mr. Green-
well expressed his astonishment at the apa-
thy—or rather want of thought—manifested
by Trades Unionists and men belonging to
Friendly Societies, in not inducing, in
greater numbers, their wives and sisters to
partake of the advantages offered by the
National Union of Working Women.
	The Rev. W. Hargrave said it was the
duty of working women to join associations
for not only would their connection there-
with tend to woman's social benefit, but
create those grand feelings of self-reliance
and independence, nay, save her in many
cases from great degradation—the parish
workhouse.—Ex.


