		          BY HANNAH T. KING.

	There is something in the biographies of
celebrated men and women that is ever
most interesting and instructive. In read-
ing them they hold up, as it were, a mir-
ror by which we can compare ourselves in
some measure, though with a difference.
We see how they have enjoyed, how they
have suffered, how bravely they have strug-
gled through the battle of life, and how
admirable and worthy of imitation they
have been through all.
	The Empress Josephine is one of those
characters! Her life is full of singular and
extraordinary events, even to a perfect ro-
mance. Her career was upward, till she
stood the most exalted woman in Europe—
yes, the world! Her beauty, her grace and
elegance, her refinement, her affability to
all, whether high or low, won friends for
her in every phase of her chequered life;
even in prison, awaiting the announcement
of her death warrant under the command
of Robespierre, the presiding demon of the
great French revolution, this delightful
affability never forsook her, and she was
the comforter and the soother of all the la-
dies who were her companions in the prison.
In all these awful scenes she was ever a
noble, sweet, womanly woman. But I an-
ticipate.
	She was born at St Pierre, the capital of
Martinico, on the 23d of June, 1757. Her
mother dying early, she was reared by an
aunt, who loved her as her own child. She
received a liberal education and some ac-

[Column 2]
complishments. The harp was her favorite
instrumeut; she was a beautiful reader, her
voice being sweet and harmonious; like
the harp of David on the troubled mind of
Israel's King, this charm is known to have
wrought powerfully upon Napoleon; his
own admission was, "The applause of the
French people sounded to my ear sweet as
the voice of Josephine."
	She was walking one day when very
young with a party of young ladies, when
they observed a woman engaged in telling
the fortunes of a party of young girls who 
had gathered round her.  When Josephine
and her party drew near, the sybil, as soon
as she saw her, uttered a loud exclamation,
and almost by force seized her hand; she
appeared greatly agitated. Josephine was
amused, and said: "Do you discover any-
thing extraordinary in my destiny?" She
answered, "Yes; you will be married early;
that union will bring you sorrow, and you
will become a widow; and then—you will
become Queen of France!" She thought
of it only to laugh at; but as time rolled
on, the words became so impressed upon
her by the events of her young life, that
she came to regard their fulfillment as a
matter of course. On the completion of
her sixteenth year she became the wife of
Vicomte Alexander de Beauharnais. This
was the first step in her destined greatness.
She loved this man with all the devotion
of her nature, and he was equally devoted
to her.  She had two children, a son and
daughter, and these children seem to have
been almost idolized by their parents. Her
son was called Eugene, and afterwards be-
came the Viceroy of Italy; her daughter,
Hortense, became subsequently Queen of
Holland.
	Now were rehearsed the scenes of that
great and awful revolution which engulfed
France! Beauharnais belonged to the aris-
tocracy, and that was sufficient to bring him
under a ban. He was arrested by order of
the committee and thrown into prison, ac-
cusing him of a conspiracy. During this
sad period Josephine and her children ex-
perienced great privation, but her kind
aunt took them to her home and provided
for them. At this time there were daily
executions of innocent persons—a blood-
thirsty spirit had possession of the rulers
of the revolution. Josephine was herself
seized and thrown into prison—the Con-
vent of the Carmelites. During these days
of agony nearly eight thousand individuals
were deliberately slaughtered by a Jaco-
bine mob in the various prisons of Paris,
and in a few weeks the husband of Joseph-
ine, unheard, untried, and nothing proved
against him, save the suspicion of bad men,
was ordered for execution, and on the 24th
of July, 1794, it was carried into effect! A
few hours only snatched Josephine from
death; the warrant had been issued, and
she must have died on the morrow had not
the Dictator, the wicked, cruel Robespierre,
fallen on the night of the 26th.
	Josephine received the last letter of her
husband, with a lock of his hair that he
had purchased from the executioner for her,
some weeks after his death, and after read-
ing it and copying it for her aunt, she add-
ed: "Yes, I will live to cherish his memory,

[Column 3]
to educate our children, to love you much,
my dear aunt, and my friends a little!"
The same day she received the knowledge
of her husband's fate she was told to hold
herself in readiness for death, as she was
to be removed to the Conciergery on the
10th, and thence to the guillotine. Several
ladies were her companions in the awful
prison of the Conciergery, and hearing the
order to Josephine to prepare for death they
were lamenting and weeping dreadfully.
At length Josephine exclaimed that there
was not even common sense in their grief;
that she should not die, but should yet be-
come Queen of France! One of the ladies
then said, with something of resentment,
"Why, then, do you not appoint your
household?" "Ah! that is true," exclaimed
Josephine, "I had forgotten. Well, my
dear, you shall be maid of honor—I prom-
ise you the situation." Upon this all the
ladies wept more, for they thought her
trials had disturbed her reason. Josephine
told this in after years to her ladies, and
added that she did not affect a courage which
she did not feel, for she felt persuaded that
her oracle was about to be realized. After
her release from prison she and her chil-
dren suffered much poverty and privation,
and were relieved by kind friends, chiefly
ladies. She says: "To Madame Dumolin
I was indebted for daily bread."
	Time rolled on. Napoleon had in a mea-
sure redeemed France from the fearful state
consequent upon the revolution. Josephine
had met him once or twice in assemblies,
and been introduced to him, but no inti-
macy had been formed between them. At
this time Bonaparte was made General-in-
chief of the army of the Interior, and Com-
mandment of Paris. In this latter capacity
it was that the new General first obtained a
particular interview with Josephine. As
Military Governor of the Capi[-]al he had
been charged with disarming the citizens.
In this way the sword of the Vicomte de
Beauharnais had come into the possession
of General Bonaparte.
		To be continued.


THE DECISION of the Supreme Court,
confirming that of the Supreme Court of
this Territory declaring the anti-polygamic
law of 1862 constitutional, occasioned con-
siderable surprise in this community. Not
that the Latter-day Saints expected any
particular leniency from the government of
which they form a part their past history,
written in their own blood, partly, showing
them too well what they might expect as a
final issue of the matter but it was sup-
posed that the palpable inaccuracies which
marked the Reynold's trial here would
come to the notice of the Supreme Court
of the nation, and that on these discrepan-
cies the case would be remanded for new
trial. But the constitutionality of the law
of 1862 is now established. "What are you
going to do about it?" is the question now
put to the "Mormons." What we have
ever done trust in Almighty God, who
rules the destinies of nations and protects
all who love and serve Him from those who
seek their overthrow. We do not fear the
issue, for we now appeal from earth to hea-
ven, from man to man's Creator.


