EDITOR EXPONENT:
	After a silence of some considerable
time, I thought I would like to mingle my
voice once more with the rest of my sisters
and bear my testimony to the laying on of
hands. A can say for onethat I have been
sick and "nigh unto death," and have had
the Elders of this Church lay their hands
on my head, and the Lord has made mani-
fest His power.  I can truly say that I know
that this is the work of God, set up in these
last days no more to be thrown down; and
when I read of the great calamities of these
last days it causes me to rejoice to think I
have had the privilege of embracing the
new and everlasting Gospel which has been
established, and to think I have come to
Zion where we can serve the Lord.  I feel
truly thankful to my parents for this, for it
is through their teachings and example
that I am here.  My parents joined the
Church when I was but six months old, and
have endured much for the sake of the
Gospel for the thirty-six years that they
have been in this Church.  I have never
heard them murmur against any principle,
but ever willing to press on for the reward
that awaits the faithful.
So, dear sisters, let us put aside all things
that may appear as trials, and let us try and
be as one great family, for our heavenly
Father has said "Unless ye are one ye are
none of mine."  Then let us lay aside all
selfishness and be as one.  If we only knew
what blessings were in store for all the
faithful when their work on earth is done,
we would hardly have patience to wait for
the time when we shall pass from this vain
world.
May God help us to do right and keep
His commandments, that we may at last
be crowned with all the faithful, is the sin-
cere prayer of your humble sister in the 
Gospel of Christ,          J. G.


PROVO CITY Jan. 8th
	The Primary Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation of the Fourth Ward was organized
Oct. 12th 1878. With Mrs. Hannah Booth
President, Emma Cluff and Jane Snyder
Counselors. H. Harrowsmith and H. Birch
assistants, and Nancy Hares Secretary.
	There are in the association 125 members.
Average attendance 80; meetings held 12;


the mode of conducting is as follows: Sing-
ing, prayer, singing, roll call, minutes of
former meeting read and accepted, address
by the President with general instructions,
local questions with counsel and advice by
E. Cluff, history of Joseph Smith or Bible
stories by J. Snyder, select reading with
explanation by H. Harrowsmith, general
remarks by H. Birch and N. Hares. The
children are then called to recite the Ten
Commandments, Articles of Faith, Restora-
tion of the Gospel and the names of the
presiding high Priesthood. Then those
selected at the former meeting come for-
ward and recite their pieces. Singing
prayer and adjournmnet. The children are
delighted with their meeting. Next week
it is proposed to give them a little dance
the picnic to be furnished by the president
her counselors and assistants.
	J. B. F.


