PIPSEY PAPERS.

	Sisters, our enemies are on our track, and
while we sleep they are plotting for our
overthrow. Let us wake up and be alive
to our duties, lest Satan enter in and sow
tares while we are sleeping.  He is trying
to do so in every way he can possibly hope
to accomplish it, striking us where he thinks
us least prepared to defend ourselves.  A
little while ago it was the cry.  "Give the
women of Utah the ballot, and they will
handle polygamy," and they laughed
among themselves, for they thought the
women of Utah would vote their ticket in
view of ridding themselves of that princi-
ple, but they were never more mistaken;
and when they find that our hands are
strengthened against them they howl
"Take away the franchise, it gives them
too much power."  But they shall not take
the franchise from us easily while we are
able to defend ourselves.  Let us use it
wisely and well, and we are a power that
will resist their effort to suppress.  They
think now to attack us through our own
sex, and the women, poor, silly things, al-
low themselves to be made use of for politi-
cal purposes.  They call us low and degrad-
ed, but we will meet them on their own
ground and return their scorn with inter-
est.  How many of their lives will bear
investigation? Do women not know that
when they provoke a quarrel with their own


sex that they find those who can talk as
well as themselves; and we are better
armed, perhaps, for we have right and
justice on our side. Our motto is, Deseret,
the working bee. Do they not know better
than to attack a hive of bees? They have
not handled as many hives as I have, or
they would be cautious.
	We see the purpose of the raid in their
memorial, it says: "We, the undersigned
women of Utah, pray your honorable body
to enact such legislation as will make effec-
tive the anti-polygamy law of 1862." This
is the secret of the whole movement—to
excite the country against us and induce
Congress to pass the bills of all sorts, planned
by political frauds for the oppression and
annoyance of this people. They care noth-
ing about virtue, or purity, or they would
note the glowing vices that have been gain-
ing among us since we have been open to
the "refining influences" of modern Chris-
tianity. Polygamy, even allowing it to be
wrong (which we do not) presents a far
purer state of society than the practices of
monogamy can show. They wish to de-
stroy our principles of morality and intro-
duce their own, "but we will have none of
it;" we will rise up in the strength of Is-
rael's God and vindicate our rights and de-
fend them.	MARY.
	Provo.


[Column 1]
