	THE MANNERS OF THE AGE.

	There is a great deal of complaint made in
regard to the "decay of fine manners." In
this as most other subjects there is a wide di-
versity of opinion, yet it is generally conceded
that this age is one of rude manners and un-
courteousness, albeit education and advance-
ment are its boast. One would dislike to ad-
mit that following as a consequence the attain-
ment of knowledge, men and women should
disregard those gentle manners that are so ad-
mirable in the possessor. Fine manners are a
charm in and of themselves, that attract and
endear those who possess them to their friends,
and always recommend themselves pleasingly.
It is not possible to define exactly the outline
or extent of these peculiar facinations. It is
something understood and realized when seen,
but of which it is scarcely possible to convey
an idea in words. Fine manners, associated
with brilliant wit and strong intellectual char-
acteristics such as many are endowed with, are
indeed the polish which enhances the value of
even the most sterling qualities, because it
gives them an appropriate setting. And fine
manners are often the passport of an empty
head into the society of intelligent and edu-
cated people, because they give an agreeable
impression to those around them, never giving
trouble,  always doing the proper thing at
the right time, and in the most graceful man-
ner. No rough surfaces that catch at every-
thing and keep one always on the "qui vive,"
nor sharp angles that cut keen as knives, where
all should be smooth and easy.
	It is to be deplored that more attention is not
given to deportment, to breeding, and to that
fine, inexpressible instinct of the manners and
bearing of individuals towards each other at
home, or abroad, in company, in travelling, or
where every people meet. We often hear the re-
mark, "The manners do not make the man (or
woman)," but depend upon it if the manners
do not make them it will have much to do with
their success in life and the place they win in
the affections.
	Ill manners and rudeness are endured some-
times because the affections are strong, the
universal law of love for humanity is powerful,
and there is too much honor left yet to discard
those who are dear by some tie of relationship,
or friendship, because their outward manner
is forbidding or uncouth; but these persons, no
matter who they are, or in what station of life
they are found, exert an influence, however
trifling it may be, and it is not elevating.
	It may not be well to set too high an estimate
upon fine manners and gentle breeding, but it
is a thousand pities that these little excellences
of deportment are not more largely cultivated
and more highly recommended. 
	To be constantly exercising politeness towards

[Column 2]
others is more pleasing than irksome, and it
soon becomes second nature to be affable, if
one is persistent in its practice. It is an old
saying that when things come to the worst
there must be a change, and really the man-
ners of young people in this age are certainly
not of the highest order. Yet books of eti-
quette, standard works on this very mythical
subject, abound now, and "How to Talk," 
"How to Write," "How to Travel," wiht nec-
cessary explanations of the art of pracitising
each of these powers, have been published and
scattered aborad, yet instead of instilling the
innate delicacy of manner into the soul, they
add precept to precept for social practice, and
leave the world barren of the genuine article,
which can never be learned wholly from books,
nor cultivated in sterile [-]oil, but must be en-
grafted into the very root of one's nature, or
the essence of it can never imbue the surround-
ing plants with the living perfume thrown off
at will. 
	Reform in manners is loudly called for; but
where shall it begin and who shall inaugurate
it? Ten to one if one individual steps forward
and shows himself unwilling to comply with
the rough rowdyisms of his associates it would
be said of him, "he's trying to be above us;
he's proud and stuck up;" and in this way,
perhaps, many fall lower, retrograde in the
scale of manners, and drag down others with
them, when with a little more moral courage
they might have stood firm, and thus lifted
themselves and others of their class to a higher
plane of breeding and deportment.
	No man or woman who lifts themselves from
the common level, or mark, without lifting
others too, if it is even those unborn. If the
superiority is never perceptible in those with
whom they come in contact in the daily battle
of life, and even this will be to some extent,
such ones are sure to transmit ot the children
a portion of this subtle element of good breed-
ing, that will develop itself under anything
like propitious circumstances.
	Thus oftentimes are the children of gentle
women detected, that have been abandoned
because they are to the manor (manner) born.
To produce good manners in children parents
must have a large degree in themselves. It is
useless for the father and mother who never
interchange gentle courtesies to expect the
children will, merely because they are so in-
structed, wanting the force of example.
	But notwithstanding forms and ceremonies
are much abhorred in this age, and tradition-
ary usages and customs are greatly ignored,
yet it would be well, and we believe highly
proper, to commence and observe certain fixed
rules, adapting them of course to the various
conditions and exigencies of the individual,
the time and the place, and insist upon a strict
observance of the code or codes of manners.
It may be a great labor, but it is time to begin
to "mend our ways" in this particular. It will
bring into play a large amount of tact and de-
velop some latent politeness, perhaps, now
lying dormant for want of energy to force its
growth. Mothers, teachers, editors, writers
can all materially aid in improving the man-
ners of the age. Fathers are not exempt either,
but as a mother's influence on the mind and the
character of a child is almost always greater
than that of the father, so it would be in the
case of manners and good breeding. Women
tolerate and sanction too many rudenesses on
the part of men that a few years ago would
have been considered unbearable. And not
knowing where to lay the blame, they cry out
against modern society. Before these impro-
prieties and liberties can be remedied some-
body must strongly and emphatically declare

[Column 3]
themselves against them, and set their faces
like iron to do battle for a higher state of soci-
ety and its usages. 
	Very many good things have recently been
published which relate so closely to the sim-
plest conditions of life, and might so easily be
introduced into every department of social in-
tercourse, making a decided improvement in
the tone of society among the people, that we
have been seriously meditating making a series
of extracts from a standard work on this sub-
ject for the benefit of our readers, more e[--]e-
cially the young  people who have banded themselves
together to mutually benefit and aid each
other in every variety of improvement. The
remark is frequently made, when one culti-
vates a taste for politeness, "O she's too nice,'
or "he's too nice," meaning that they pay too
much attention to form of speech, or polish of
manner, but in reality nothing is too nice
which is genuine and bears relations to all
its relative conditions. So much for the man-
ners of the age and suggestions for improve-
ment.	<C. B. [-]oells>


