CHARITY.

	Charity is every where esteemed to be
one of the most essential elements to the
formation of character, in the life of a
christian it is indispensable. The New
Testament in summing up all the gifts and
qualifications of a saint speaks in the strong-
est terms upon this good gift.
	By all people every where, charity is con-
sidered one of the most precious qualities
of the human soul. Without it, we are
told in the Bible, all other gifts are as
nought. When we speak of the bestowings
of charity, it is generally understood giving
to the poor, or unfortunate; and in this,
there are many degrees and many motives,
and great wisdom is needed to discern be-
tween true and false charity, or honest and
selfish motives.
	Charity in its true sense is not giving
without consideration to all that ask, while
we have the means to dispose of without
denying ourselves. To be truly charitable
covers a large surface and includes many
things. Life is rendered more pleasant,
and the society of our friends more harmo-
nious by the exercise of this virtue. If we
are ready to judge and condemn our friends
and acquaintances for every little frivolous
thing, we should be always having some-
thing disagreeable to meet. Life would be


robbed of much of its sweetness, if we did
not exercise charity towards each others
shortcomings. "There are none perfect,"
said the Savior, "no not once." For this rea-
son, if for no other, we should cultivate
this gift and seek to beautify our lives with
it. It is a trial of character to which all
young people should give special attention,
for it will render them more agreeable to
others, more happy in themselves and more
pleasing to God. We cannot be to careful
in judging the faults or weaknesses of
others, and here charity is needed to make
us lenient, long suffering and kind. Charity
for others will give us time to deliberate
before we pass judgement, but if we are
hasty in condemning what seems to us to
be wrong, we may have reason to repent. 
	For the exercise of charity towards those,
who are from any cause dependent, one is
sure to learn lessons of humility; and often
in contemplating the sorrows or unhappy
lot to those we minister, we are taught
patience and meekness; and we are thus
inspired with gratitude for the many bless-
ings we are in possession of.
	Faith, hope and charity are classed to-
gether as all important to salvation but,
"the greatest of these is charity," we
should not feel that charity only consists
in giving to the needy or that it is only in
forgiving those who offend us, but charity
enters into our early lives and gives a tone
to our natures that will help us to endure
many of the evils we have to meet with
here, and to overcome in ourselves much
that is wrong.
	Charity is a part of the religion of our
blessed Savior, and in no other life has it
ever been so strikingly exemplified; even
upon the cross He had charity for His
enemies and prayed "Father forgive them,
for they know not what they do."


For the EXPONENT.
