HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE received reports in full of mass
meetings held in St. George, Third Ward Provo
and Heber City, but not having space for them
they will have to lay over until next issue.
	MRS. EMMELINE B. Wells and Mrs. Zina
Young Williams left this city on the morning
of the 3d inst. for Washington, as delegates to
the Eleventh Annual Convention of the Na-
tional Woman's Suffrage Association, held in
the capitol, on the 9th and 10th of the present
month. Aside from the importance of attend-
ing the Convention itself, their visit was most
auspiciously timed, for not only were they pre-
pared to meet the efforts of the local anti-
polygamic crusade and represent the women
of Utah in a right way, but to answer inter-
esting queries regarding the probable feeling
existing among the Latter-day Saints as a se-
quence to the recent decision made by the Su-
preme Court of the United States, declaring
the validity of the anti-polygamic law of 1862.
	THE MONTHLY Sunday School Union was
held in the Theatre on Sunday evening, the
5th inst., the building being filled to its ut-
most capacity, and many going away unable
to procure seats.
	After singing, and a prayer by Elder C. W.
Penrose, the minutes of the last union were
read and approved, after which Superintend-
ent George Goddard made some remarks. The
Union Glee Club then sang, after which the
city and county wards were called and all of
the former and most of the latter were found
to be represented.
	Counselor Joseph E. Taylor next addressed
the assembly, and was followed by Pres. A. M.
Cannon. Elder C. W. Penrose also spoke to
the congregation, and then Supt. Goddard of-
fered a few remarks. A number of good reso-
lutions were adopted during the progress of
the meeting, and a good time was spent by all
present.
	THE REGULAR Quarterly Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake of Zion was held in the Thea-
tre on the 4th and 5th inst. The house was
well warmed for the occasion, and the build-
ing, especially, on Sunday, was filled to over-
flowing. The General authorities of the
Church, including the representatives of both
the Melchisedec and Aaronic Priesthoods, were
seated in order upon the stage, with the Tab-


ernacle choir in the rear. A good spirit pre-
vailed, and much valuable instruction was
given.
	The forenoon of Saturday was occupied by
the necessary transaction of business, after
which the time was occupied in an interesting
manner by Superintendent George Goddard,
Pres. Angus M. Cannon and Pres. Joseph
Young, Sen. At 2 p. m. the Conference re-
sumed, and after more business Elder Brig-
ham Young, Bishops Edwin D. Woolley, Rob-
ert T. Burton, Bishop Edward Hunter and
President David O. Calder addressed the con-
gregation, severally, in the order named.
	Sunday morning Elder Aurelius Miner made
some interesting remarks, after which the 
General authorities of the Church and the
local authorities of the Stake were read and
sustained by a vote of the congregation. Pres.
A. M. Cannon occupied the remaining time,
and the meeting adjourned until 2 p. m.
	The afternoon was occupied by President
John Taylor, who preached a powerful dis
course on the goodness of God to His children,
and the duties expected of them in return.
His remarks were reported verbatim.
	After a few items of excellent instruction by
Pres. A. M. Cannon the Conference adjourned
sine die;
	DR. ROMANIA B. Pratt has moved her office
from above Dr. Richards' drug store to the Old
Constitution building next door to the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT Office.


