RESPONSIBILITY OF MOTHERS.

	How few mothers realize the responsi-
bility of their position. To them a soul
has been given to train for a higher exist-
ence—a pure soul, and if it becomes stained,
blackened, or withered, whose is the fault?
Little sins like little weeds take root rap-
idly, and will grow and choke out all the
sweet blossoms of truth and innocence, un-
less the mother, with an ever watchful and
prayerful heart, sets them an example
worthy of imitation. How many mothers
see their children grow up from childhood
to man and womanhood, a disgrace to soci-
ety? Need we ask who is to blame, when
the good old book we are taught to believe
in says if parents will train their children
in the way they should go, when they
reach maturity it will not depart from
them. If mothers have a desire to rejoice
at the harvest, let them sow the seeds of
wisdom and righteousness while they can.
								S. A.
	Eleventh Ward, Salt Lake City.


ELEMENTS OF A HOME.—I never saw a
garment too fine for man or maid; there
never was a chair too good for a cobbler, or
cooper or king to sit in; never a house too
fine to shelter a human head. These ele-
ments about us, the gorgeous sky, the im-
perial sun, are not too good for the human
race. Elegance fits man. But do we not
value these tools of housekeeping a little
more than they are worth, and sometimes
mortgage a home for the mahogany we
would bring into it? I had rather eat my
dinner off the head of a barrel, or dress
after the fashion of John the Baptist in the
wilderness, or sit on a block all my life,
than consume all myself before I get a
home, and take so much pains with the
outside that the inside is as hollow as an
empty nut. Beauty is a great thing, but
beauty of garments, house and furniture, is a
very tawdry ornament compared with do-
mestic love. All the elegance in the world
will not make a home, and I would give
more for a spoonful of real hearty love than
for whole ship loads of furniture, and all
the gorgeousness that all the upholsterers
of the world could gather together.—Theo-
dore Parker.


THE duration of our passions is no more
dependent upon us than the duration of our
life.
	As we must render an account of every
idle word, so must we likewise of our idle
silence.—Ambrose.


