	GIVE TO SLANDER NO QUARTER.

	With all our boasted educational privi-
leges, with all our societies for the inculca-
tion of morality, with our churches and
Sabbath schools teaching the principle of
the "golden rule," it would yet seem that
the masses of the people have scarcely a
rudimentary conception of the immorality
of slander, or having such conception, that
they smother it beneath the cloak of vile
suspicion.  Fostered by this suspicion, and
unrestrained by a charity that "thinketh
no evil," slander, "foulest whelp of sin,"
touches, with the blighting frost of its in-
sidious breath, the fair name of woman,
the honor of man, and perverts with vilest
malignity [-]he unsuspecting words and acts
of innocent girlhood.
	When the somber shadow of its wither-
ing curse hovers over the name of woman
by man maligned, it is dark enough, but
when woman casts the cloud, what pen can
portray or pencil shade its gloom?  We can
dimly understand the reason why a woman,
herself fallen, may take delight in circulat-
ing stories or hinting dark things concern-
ing the lives of other women, it being prob-
ably a sort of balm to her own conscious-
ness of impurity to make herself believe
that others, even in high places, are like
unto her.  But how women whose purity
of life is unimpeached can allow themselves
to voice suspicion concerning sister women,
is more difficult to understand.  "Taking
that which enriches not them and leaves
the other poor indeed," they pass along the
highways of life, ignoring those who strug-
gle in its byways, except to give them un-
kind thrusts, all the while as serenely con-
scious of superiority as if their uncalled—for
and most merciless theft were not a greater
crime in the face of high heaven than that
for which many a convict toils for years,
dragging a ball and chain.  The narrow
lives, narrow aims, narrow aspirations of
many women is doubtless the cause of much
gossip, the primary element of scandal,
which "steams up in an infusion of tea and
floats around in the air of common fame,"
and if there were absolutely no other rea-
son for giving the minds of women intelli-

[Column 2]
gent and responsible employment, this one 
would be more than sufficient.  Every wo-
man who has had her mind occupied with
the graver responsibilities of business, or
who is bending all her energies toward the
accomplishment of some cherished aim,
knows how infinitesimal and unworthy of
consideration these mischievous animad ver-
sions upon the conduct of others seems to 
her, and while there will always, doubtless,
be small minds incapable of grasping
greater things than the "poor scandal of
the neighborhood," yet we are sure that
many women are led into this channel of
thought and speech which it induces, from
an activity of mind that is misdirected,
rather than naturally mischievous.  Rise
above this thing, women, sisters, for it is 
one of the clogs that holds our sex in bond-
age, one of the serious charges against wo-
men which can neither be palliated nor de-
nied by those who would fain defend her;
a thing too obvious to be ignored and too
injurious in its effects upon individuals and
society to be passed by in silence.  Put it
resolutely beneath your feet, banish it from
your presence, and by the high hopes en-
tertained for those who call you "mother,"
by the tender recollections of her whom
you once addressed by that holy name, and
for the honor of that womanhood that can-
not be tarnished without casting a stigma
upon them and you, resolve never to voice
a suspicion, however vaguely, that will tar-
nish a woman's name.  Give to slander no
quarter.
"Dare we condemn the ills that others do?
	Dare we condemn?
Their strength is small, their trials are not few,
The tide of wrong is difficult to stem,
And if to us more clearly than to them
Is given the knowledge of the good and true;
More do they need our help and pity too;
	Dare we condemn?
	—"New North West."


