OBITUARY.

	DIED, in the 15th Ward, Salt Lake City,
Jan. 2d, Electa Mott Barlow, one of the wives
of J. M. Barlow, Dentist, aged 51 years. She
retired at her usual hour, and apparently in
usual health, about 4 oclock a. m. her hus-
band was aroused by a slight movement and
an apparent effort to speak; in two short min-
utes all signs of existing mortal life had fled.
Her two daughters and one of her three sons
reached her bedside before life became quite
extinct, and the son earnestly inflated her
lungs with his own breath; she seemed to
breathe once again and all was over.
	How suddenly, how unexpectedly, and yet
how naturally has this our sister fallen asleep.
She has been many years a diligent member of
the Relief Society Committee, and the kindly
aid she has rendered the sick is a monument to
her memory—the spire which will penetrate
the regions of her paradisic home, and be read
by friends in her circle of society there.
	We condole with the family and friends in
the temporary separation, and rejoice with
them in the Gospel assurances of a happy and
eternal reunion where all tears will be wiped
away, and no moth or rust will corrupt.
	AN AGED SISTER GONE.—News has reached
us of the death of Sister Catherine Wilson,
more commonly known as "Grandmother
Wilson," who departed this life on the 28 h
ult., at the ripe old age of 96 years.
	Sister Wilson was born April 15, 1782, at
Merionethshire, North Wales; received the
Gospel in the fall of 1810, in Flintshire, and
emigrated to Nauvoo in 1842. She crossed the
plains to Utah with Bishop N. K. Whitney's
family, and drove a light wagon all the way.
From that time she has resided in Utah, and
after a long and useful life has quietly gone to
rest, to await the final resurrection, when she
will come forth with the just and the faithful,
to receive the reward of all her well doing.
	The remains were placed in the Ogden City
cemetery, Dec. 30, 1878.


DIED, at Hyde Park, Cache Co., Jan. 1st,
1879, Mrs. Anna White Lamb, wife of Suel
E. Lamb.
	Deceased was born Sept, 1st, 1819, at Zurich,
Switzerland, and came to Utah in 1856, endur-
ing all the hardships incident to that fearful
journey across the plains with handcarts, and
the trials of a lone woman in a strange land,
but through all trusting with unswerving
faith in Him she had covenanted to serve.
With the same faith she passed behind the
vail, with only the regret at parting with her
only child, who, from the effects of brain fever
in infancy, is nearly deaf and dumb, making
it difficult to understand any but the mother.
We do not mourn the departed, knowing her
life was such as to insure her future glory. As
one of the Relief Society she has ever been an
active member, and of all her friends none
know of an unkind word or deed; she was
truly an exception. For that reason we can
not feel to mourn her departure to that haven
of rest, but extend our sympathy to the be-
reaved daughter, praying that He will sustain
her, who has been her mother's comfort and
strength.		M. E. G.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
