THE UTAH QUESTION ONCE MORE.

	The Anti-Utah crusade has commenced
this year earlier than usual. In his annual
report to the Secretary of the Interior, the
Governor, in a spasm of virtuous indigna-
tion, proposed the disfranchisement of Utah
women. Now, in the name of all justice
and right we ask why the women of Utah
should be disfranchised and not the men of
Utah? If it is on account of polygamy, the
women were not its institutors; if the laws
of Utah are illegal, the women did not
make them. They have been very quiet
politicians, never holding office, never until
this fall, even members of political clubs,
but simply going peaceably to the polls,
casting their votes and going away again. 
It is very easy to see why the Governor
suggests that the women oi Utah should be
disfranchised, and why similar propositions
have at different times been made in regard
to Wyoming. It is because the women of
the States do not hold the ballot that this
great and crying injustice is proposed in
regard to the women of the territories.
	Disfranchisement is deemed a punish-
ment too severe for the worst male crimi-
nals; that felons may not lose the rigot of
sufferage they are largely pardoned. In
the State of New York during one year, 360
criminals were pardoned by the Governor,
one for nearly every day in the year. Every
prison in the state saw criminals set free
from it except the woman's prison at Sing
Sing. Not a single one of the 360 criminals
pardoned, was a woman. Why? Because
women are a disfranchised class. There
were no votes for the Governor lying back
of their freedom. Women might suffer
the full penalty of the law, and mercy
would not interfere. As it was with Gover-
nor Hoffman, so it is with every other
Governor in every other State. Penalties
are visited to the full on the disfranchised
class; justice tempered with mercy is meted
out to the ballot-holding class.
	As it is with Governors, so it is with
Presidents. Hayes has not been in power
very long, but in the fifteen months from
the time of his taking the presidential chair
in March 1877 down to the adjournment of
Congress in June last, he had pardoned 285
male criminals, "restored them to citizen-
ship," as the law terms it; citizenship and
the ballot being recognized as synonmous—
in men. These felons, these law-breakers,
were all pardoned because they belonged to
the class that holds political power in its
hands.
	What a cry would be raised if the Gover-
nor of Utah had proposed to take male suf-
ferage away from Utah, or had even propos-
ed to disfranchise male polygamists. Be-
fore this time, not only every political pa-
per in the country, but every religious pa-
per as well, would have been in strong pro-
test against such an abominable proposi-
tion, but as it is "only women" the country
takes it coolly. Did the women of but a
single State hold political power, we should
hear no more in regard to disfranchising
the women of the territories. Such is the
power of the ballot it holds its aegis even
over the worst male criminals. It is the
great protector.
	The "Gentile" women of Utah have also
addressed Mrs. President Hayes and the
women of the United States—have prepared
a memorial to Congress, and a circular let-
ter to the clergy, against the mormon cus-
tom of plural marriage. But, after all,
what a sham morality is this cry against
plurality of wives. In Utah, until the ad-
vent of the "Gentile" population, there

[Column 2]

were no liquor saloons, no gambling hells,
no houses of prostitution, no paupers and
few criminals. They were not compelled
to lock their doors from theives, and at any
hour of the night a woman was safe to
traverse any part of the city unattended.
But now, through the husbands, fathers,
brothers and friends of the male sex of
these "Gentile" women, institutions have
been established which were previously
unknown in Utah; saloons, gambling dens,
houses of ill-fame." These the "Gentile"
ladies can endure, because they were ac-
customed to such vices in the States, but
plural marriage they feel is more than
their delicate natures can bear. Out upon
such sham hypocrisy and nonsense. For
our part, we think plural marriages stand
white beside the common abominations of
cities; cities did I say? The country every-
where is rotten with lust, and woman is
everywhere the victim of man's vices and
crimes.
	Read the following extracts from a recent
sermon by Rev. T. Dewitt Talmage upon
Vice in the Metropolis, and find these mor-
al hells, tenfold worse than Mormon mar-
riages. And how are these hells supported?
Not by youth, not by young men, not by
recognized and open sinners, but by mar-
ried Christian men of wealth and position,
"judges of courts," "distinguished law-
yers," " officers in churches," "political
orators," "fathers and husbands."
THE LEPERS OF SOCIETY.
	"I have discovered in my midnight ex-
ploration that the haunts of iniquity are
supported by what are called the better
classes. The men who in our cities sup-
port luxuriant vice come down from the
fashionable avenues of New York and cross
over from some of the finest mansions of
Brooklyn, or are prominent citizens from
Chicago, Cincinnati, Pittsburg, Philadel-
phia and Boston. I could call the names of
many of the frequenters of these haunts of
sin, and may call them before I get through
these sermons, though the fabric of New
York and Brooklyn society should tumble
into wreck—judges of courts, distinguished
lawyers, officers in churches, political ora-
tors that talk on the Republican, Democrat-
ic and Greenback platforms about God and
good morals till you might almost take
them for evangelists expecting a thousand
converts in one night. On the night of our
exploration I saw their carriages leaving
these dignitaries at the shambles of death.
Call the roll in the house of dissipation, and
if the inmates will answer you will find
stock-brokers from Wall street, large im-
porters on Broadway, iron merchants,
leather merchants, hardware merchants,
cotton merchants wholesale grocers and
representatives from all the wealthy class-
es.
HOMES AND MARRIAGE VOWS BETRAYED.
	But I have something to tell you more
astonishing than that the houses of iniquity
are supported by wealthy people when I
tell you they are supported by the heads of
families—fathers and husbands, with the
awful perjury upon them of broken marri-
age vows; and while many of them keep
their families on niggardly portions, with
hardly enough to sustain life, have their
thousands for the diamonds and wardrobe
and equipage of iniquity. In the name of
high heaven I cry out against this popular
iniquity. Such men must be cast out from
social life and from business relations. If
they will not reform, overboard with them
from all decent circles. I lift one-half the
burden of malediction from the unpitied
head of woman and hurl it upon the blasted

[Column 3]

pate of offending man. What society
wants is a new division of its anathema. By
what law of justice does the burning ex-
coriation on society pursue offending wo-
man down off the precipice, while offending
man goes kid-gloved into respectable cir-
cles, invited up if he has money and means,
forwarded into political recognition, and
all the doors of high life opening to the rap
of his gold headed cane?" 
	Here is polygamy at our very doors.
	Because Mr. Talmage dare lay bare these
sins in the heart of the Metropolis of all
North America, he has become the target
of the press, the most abused man in all
America. He knows it, and says the rea-
son is, "these church lepers don't want
their scabs touched."
	For our own part we honor Mr. Talmage;
he is nobly battling for women, and point-
ing out as no other man dare point out, the
vices and crimes of his own sex—of his
Christian brethren. Why are not these
things but an end to in New York? Be-
cause nobody wants them to be. The po-
lice have such full control that in some of
these dens no man enters without their per-
mission. They are not destroyed because
those in power do not want them destroy-
ed. They are not destroyed because dis-
franchised woman is held as the mere
plaything of ballot-holding men. That is
why. Ten vile men are required to support
one 'abandoned' woman. In Utah we have
religious polygamy; in New York we have
irreligious polygamy as well as polyandry.
In Utah, the polygamous wife still bears
the name of wife. In New York the wo-
man of many husbands is hated and scorned
by those very men who 'support' her.
Faugh! what a stench in the nostrils has
the word "support" become.
	The polygamous wife in Utah stores
grain, makes silk, belongs to relief socie-
ties, is foremost in every good work. Let
Utah alone and begin with the male sin-
ners of the Empire State. 
"THE WOMEN OF UTAH PROJECT." 
	The above is the heading of an article in
the Territorial Enquirer, of Provo City,
Utah, in which an account is given of a
mass meeting of Mormon women at the
Temple to protest against the intervention
of "Gentile" women in their religious
affairs.
	Some 2,000 women were present. The
Enquirer says the women of Utah are un-
der the impression they are their own free
agents and are perfectly competent "to
paddle their own canoe."
	addresses were made claiming the right
of protection in the free exercise of their
religion, and declaring Congress had as
much right to legislate against baptism by
immersion as against plurality of wives.
Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, editor of the
Woman's Exponent, expressed her aston-
ishment that women should rise against
women, and although she cherished no ill-
feeling towards them, they could rest
assured that it would be "diamond cut dia-
mond." She closed by saying she thanked
God there were some who were not afraid
to publish a word favorable to the "poor,
down-trodden women of Utah."
	Mrs. Wells is a member of the Advisory
Committee of the National Woman's Suf-
frage Association.
	Several resolutions were passed, but we
have only room for the following:
	Resolved, That we protest against the
enactment of any laws which deprive
American citizens, whether male or female,
of any constitutional rights; and that we
make a united effort to secure the unani-


mous voice of the women of our faith to
plead the passage of the sixteenth amend-
ment during the coming session of con-
gress.
	Resolved, That we do truly appreciate the
efforts and labors of the noble ladies of the
National Woman’s Sufferage Association,
who, though opposed in their feelings to
plural marriage and without sympathy for
our religious views bravely defended the
cause of woman's rights in Utah in the halls
of congress, and we take this public oppor-
tunity of tenderitg them an expression of
our sincere and heartfelt thanks.
	We fear these things are the commence-
ment of serious trouble, both religious and
political, for our country.


