NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE concert given in Academy Hall at
Provo by the students of the B. Y. Acade-
my Friday evening Dec. 20, 1878. was a
grand success. Where all was excellent it
is hard to bestow any special praise. Re-
flecting great credit as it did on the excell-
ent training given in the Academy, each
performance still showed individual talent.
The literary portion under Miss Teenie
Smoot was excellent. The costuming ar-
ranged by Mrs. Z. Y. Williams could not
be excelled in Salt Lake. One felt surpris-
ed and pleased at the smooth manner in
which all the scenes and various songs, &c.
were presented. There was no hitch no
jar, and the opening and the closing prayer
given by one of the students placed the
whole evening's entertainment far above
anything of the kind ever given here. One
feature, was quite noteworthy. The direct-
ion of the whole musical part by Miss Susa
Young proves that there is another place
where woman acquits herself quite as
creditably as man. The affair might be
justly termed the best of the kind ever
given in Provo. 
	WASHINGTON dispatches announce the
arrival there of our delegates to the Nati-
onal Womans Suffrage Convention, and
the fact that Mrs. E. B. Wells and Mrs. Z.
Y. Williams have taken seats in that body.
These are the first delegates ever sent from
Utah to a woman's convention, and marks
an new era in the suffrage movement in
our territory. If nothing else is accom-
plished the presence of these ladies in the
capacity of delegates representing the wo-
men here and giving expression to their
sentiments and feelings is certain of pro-
ducing a salutary effect in the course of
time. We now have an opportunity of
representing ourselves, and in all probabil-
ity may make a better impression before
the world than have those who have vol-
untarly undertaken to represent our cause
for us. Among the first acts of the Conven-
tion was the adoption of a resolution ap-
pointing a committee to wait on President
Hayes, and recall to his mind the fact that
there were 20,000,000 women in the United
States whose existence he appeared to have
forgotton in his recent message toCongress;
also that he might find it advisable to di-
rect the attention of those who constitute
that recent innovation—the hospitel for po-
litical incurables, commonly called Congress,
in his future messages.


