FAIRVIEW, UTAH.

Meeting held on the 19th December, 1878.
he assembly called to order and object


stated by Mrs. M. A. Pritchett, who was
then chosen chairman.  Singing.  Prayer
by Mrs. T. Avery.  Singing.  Mrs. T.
Avery then chosen Secretary, and L. A.
Wilson Assistant Secretary.  The follow-
ing committee chosen to draft resolutions:
Lois A. Wilson, T. Avery, E. Cox, R. San-
derson, L. Terry, Lois Jordan, M. Cheney,
M. Larsen.  Committee withdrew.  Address
of Anti-polygamic mass meeting to Mrs.
Hayes, was read by R. Tucker.
Extempore addresses were then delivered
by Mrs. A. M. Peterson, T. Avery, Mary
Larsen, Margaret Cheney, Elvira Cox, Le-
vee Terry, Sarah J. Sanderson, Lena Brady,
Lois Jordan, Maria Larsen, Lois A. Wilson
and Martha Cheney.  Each of these ladies
bore a strong testimony in regard to the
truth of plural marriage.
Committee returned the following report:
Resolved, That we adopt the preamble
and resolutions of the mass meeting of the
ladies of the Latter-day Saints in Salt Lake
City, and coincide with their sentiments.
Mrs. Mary A. Pritchett and Mrs. Chris-
tiansen then expressed their opinions upon
the subject under discussion. Singing
Benediction by Maria Larsen.
L. A. WILSON, Reporter.
ALMA, UINTA CO., WYOMING.
On the 22d December last a meeting of
the sisters of Alma was called for the pur-
pose of protesting against the Anti polyga-
my petition now in circulation.  Com-
menced at 6:30 p. m., and was attended by
nearly all the sisters in the ward.  Prayer
was offered by Sister Brown.  Mrs. Cath-
erine Beveridge, President of the Relief
Society, was chosen President, Miss Lizzie
Bruce, Secretary.
Mrs. Beveridge then stated that the ob-
ject of the meeting was to give the sisters
a chance to state their feelings on the Anti-
polygamy Bill which had been gotten up by
some of the Gentiles of Utah.  Advised
the sisters, if any there were, who did not
believe in plural maraiage not to speak
against it, for the angels of God were tak-
ing notes of our transactions this night.
She not only believed in plural marriage,
but was willing to practice the same; would
rather be the plural wife of a good man
and be acknowledged as one of his wives,
than to be the wife of an unrighteous man
on any condition.  She solemnly protested
against the Anti-polygamy bill, as being an
infringement on the rights of American
citizens and on the laws of God.
Preamble and resolutions which were
read and adopted by the woman's mass
meeting in Salt Lake City were read and
unanimously sustained by the sisters pre-
sent.
Short speeches were then made by the
following sisters, protesting against the
Anti-polygamy bill:  Mrs. Danks, Mrs.
Woodhouse, Mrs. M. A. Kiddy, Mrs.
Johnston, Mrs. M. Fowkes, Mrs. Evans,
Mrs. Russel, Mrs. S. A. Danks, Mrs. Brad-
shaw, Mrs. L. Beveridge, Mrs. Henry, Mrs.
M. J. Ball, Mrs. Thomas.. Prayer by Mrs.
Woodhouse.
LIZZIE BRUCE, Secretary.


FRUIT CAKE.—One pound of butter, one
pound of brown sugar, ten eggs, one pound
of flour scorched, four pounds raisins, three
pounds of currants, one pound of citron, half
pint brandy, half ounce of mace, half ounce
of cloves, half ounce of cinnamon, one cup
of molasses.


