[Vol57 | January 1970 | Page 19 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

Then, turning to the father, she added, "My car broke down and Dennis said I might sleep on your couch tonight."' Then, catching a pot holder from the cupboard, she pulled the pan from the oven with a swish. "Now as quickly as you can get ready, this food should be eaten before it gets cold." And that was it. They found their seats and Jerusha took the one left over. Little Amy peered at her furtively from around her father where he had helped her onto a stool. Jerusha smiled at her and made ever so tiny a wink, but Amy drew her head back quickly. Mr. Wilson's eyes went round the table. They came to rest upon Dennis. "Son, will you please say the blessing?" he said. Dennis bowed his head and offered his simple thanks and supplication. And then, with what must have seemed a fitting afterthought to him, he added, "And Jerusha Spends the Night Lord, we thank thee that Jerusha is going to spend the night with us. * * Bana so Jerusha came to live with the Wilsons, to share their ups and downs, to bring again the touch of a mature female into the household, to change their lives and her life with new beginnings. It had come about so easily. On that first morning when Dennis brought in the two pails of foamy 'milk, he had found Jerusha bustling about the kitchen cooking breakfast. "Where's Suzey?"' he asked. "She has to take care of the milk." "T told her to sleep awhile this morning," Jerusha said. "Young girls Suzey's age need a lot of sleep. Show me what's to be done with the milk and ['ll take care of it." So Dennis brought out the big milk strainer and showed her the bottles to fill and put in the refrigerator for family use, and how to strain the rest into the large milk can so Joe could set it where the milk truck could pick it up. He brushed the long hair from his face with his arm while he instructed her. "Who cuts your hair?" Jerusha asked. "Oh, sometimes my dad and sometimes he takes me to the barber when he don't have time." "Did the ducks like your grasshoppers?" "Haven't done it yet," Dennis said, "I went over to my teacher's to start my birdhouse last night." Jerusha listened with interest. "Td like to watch the ducks when you give them those varmints," 

17 January 1970

 she said. 'And I'd like to see your birdhouse, too." Dennis gave her a quick grin. "Sure, Jerusha, after breakfast." Then Joe came in, walking with a quick stride. He stopped suddenly when he saw Jerusha, and a slight shadow crossed his face, but she paid no attention to it. He said nothing to Jerusha even though her face shone with friendliness. He turned to Dennis. "Where's Suz?" he demanded. "She's sleeping in," Dennis replied without concern. "Well, Ill get her up," Joe~ remarked authoritatively, striding across the kitchen floor. Then, through the window, Jerusha saw Paul coming with a shovel over his shoulder. He stopped and leaned it against the house, and she hurried to start the pancakes cooking. With her back to the open door she felt him watching her. She faced him pleasantly and naturally as though she had always been there and flipped over a pancake. "Good morning," she said, "I suppose you have already worked up a big appetite. I made a lot just to make sure." He smiled, a little confused, his eyes on the platter of eggs and bacon, and then he said apologetically, "This is right nice of you to help out like this. Suzey does pretty well, but we kind of forget what it's like to have a grownup hand doing the cooking." "I'm right happy to oblige, Mr. Wilson," Jerusha said and flipped another pancake. One by one the places filled up at the table. Dennis almost knocked his chair over trying to seat himself with his eyes on the stack of pancakes. Joe sat with a 18 glum stare at the table, and he gave Suzey a black look when she slipped into her chair just in time. Then Amy came tripping in, still wearing her nightgown. She started for her father, and then with a sidelong glance at Jerusha, she detoured around the other side of the table. Paul stood up and quietly looked at Jerusha. "We always have a family prayer together before breakfast," he said. '""We'd be happy if you'd like to kneel with us." Quick to oblige, Jerusha's eyes rested on her first acquaintance. "Dennis said you were quite accustomed to praying," she remarked straight forwardly,"and I guess I don't know too much about it, but I'd be nght happy to join you." Spry as one half her age, she bent her knees and reached down to straighten her skirt. As she did so, her eyes met Amy's peeping at her under the table. The little girl quickly dropped her head onto her arms on the chair seat. Jerusha had a great longing to reach out her hand and touch the child's head _ reassuringly. But under the table was not quite the place to begin her conquest, especially if Amy should decide to scramble away from her. Paul offered the prayer for the family, remembering each member's welfare. He asked for blessings for friends and relatives and the welfare of the Church and its leaders, after giving thanks. And then he mentioned the family's guest. It brought about a peculiar twinge inside Jerusha, so that she felt she would like to shake his hand in friendship. (to be continued) nd sident of th National CounciI of Presided a annual Meetings of Cuncil hel nN New rk City in Octob The Council 'NCludes thirty-two Member Organizations rough Which th Council h access to More than tw ty-three ill wome President Spafford Presideqd d Conducted all Meetings, p eSident Floren S. Jacob sen of t Yo N& Women: Utual im Provemen 4SSOCiation also ttendeg th Meetings The SPE cial 196 "Wom of ONscience"' awar. IS Presenteg to Mrs nie Mae Ba kh f Coll 8 Station, Arkansas for he 'NSPirationaI leadership, and "he Visio Ourage jn dealing with Causes" Pa ticulary for "bring 'NE pride into Ves of the towns People," ang encour Inga d teaching groes to Cast their St vot Miss Peggy Carey of Long B ach, Califor Nia, has been PPointed the new house C per at th Ite Ho se, ashington D. C. Sh 'N8S more an Nty-five years of Otel Xperience + the White N to the ned for tion of nature's 8ifts to man, Sylvie de Bois, 5 young Paris &x-deby. Tante, read that the Uniteg States Needed 1,000 traineg Chefs. With a invested some Meet their foreign GeneraI friendliness Was enthusiasm for Miss Angie Br ks, forty ne, of Liberia last Septe b 4S electeg President of the Genera] ssembly the Uniteg Nations. Is the Second woman to be SO honoreq first wa Vijaya Lakshmj andit, fro n Mrs Ray Kirkland, Bountiful, Utah, has come one Of tw ty ASSOCiates Of the a Otographj Ociet f America for 1969, and h reaped Many other honors IN her field Mrs. Dorene Johnson, an eMployee at Hil} Air Force Base, Ogden, Utah, is the Only cer. If Man radiographer iN the United Using, at times, the Potentially danger. OUS (if not handled Correctly) iridium 192 radioisotope She takes X-ray Pictures and interprets them of the iNsides of airplanes to detect any POSsible faults.