[Vol57 | January 1970 | Page 67 | General Feature | Social Relations— Purpose and Reward Alberta | H. Christensen]
SOCIAL RELATIONS Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 7: Purpose and Reward Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, Selections from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Course of Study, 1969-70, Lessons 1-5.) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, September 1970 OBJECTIVE: To point out that if a Latter-day Saint woman will keep the ultimate destiny of the family unit constantly in mind, she may be purposefully motivated in her daily living. INTRODUCTION This lesson continues' the theme of the importance of the role of woman but discusses it from a somewhat less theological point of view than did the preceding one. This lesson emphasizes the fact that in order to realize satisfaction and personal fulfillment, a woman must see in the role of wife and mother, both purpose and reward. This should not be difficult for the woman who understands the Latter-day Saint attitude toward the family unit, who understands, through gospel teachings, the importance of the parent-child-parent cycle in the eternal plan. This spiritual background should give meaningful motivation to the activities that are on the day-to-day agenda of motherhood. TO KEEP IN MIND Although children may be greatly desired and loved by people of all cultures and religious beliefs, they are held in a special and peculiar place dmong the Latter-day Saints. The gospel teaches that they are the fleshly tabernacled spirits whose intelligences are coeternal with God and that they did not follow the rebellion of Lucifer. Therefore, they kept their first estate and are entitled to earth conditions which will help them to keep their second estate. This fact places importance and specific requirements upon the homes that Latter-day Saint parents establish. President Clark points out a known but seldom emphasized aspect of parenthood in the following: I would like you to know that no daughter nor no son of yours has ever intruded himself into your family. You invited him in, you invited her in, they are your guests, and you owe to them all that a good hostess owes to her guests. 

67 January 1970

 I think we cannot hold that too firmly in mind. (Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, lesson 2.) Class Involvement Questions 1. How should the foregoing statements influence a mother's general attitude toward the responsibilities of motherhood? 2. How should they influence her (a) affection for her children? (b) the amount of patience she willingly will use in the training of the children? 3. What, in your opinion, does a good hostess owe to her guest? 4. How might the following good hostess qualifications be applied to the motherchild relationship in the home? A. A good hostess does not embarrass her guest. B. A good hostess establishes a general atmosphere of cheerfulness and good will through her attitude and her speech. C. A thoughtful hostess does not selfishly do all the speaking, but encourages her guest to participate in the conversation. D. The considerate hostess does not ignore the contribution of the guest. E. Ifthe guest volunteers information regarding personal problems, the considerate hostess endeavors to understand and responds with kindness and empathy. Other suggestions may be considered. PURPOSE Through the centuries women and work have been generally inseparable. In addition to the bearing of children, they were expected to do much of the work of field or farm, while the male of the species hunted or explored or engaged in war. A woman's work in many countries today involves the less arduous out-of-the-home physical exertion than in former times. In specific situations a woman's life has become one of physical ease. However, generally 68 speaking, a woman's role still requires long hours, seemingly thankless tasks, and, most certainly, it demands the same fundamental virtues of courage, insight, willingness to work, and unselfish service. Perhaps, being naturally inclined toward tenderness and compassion, these women of the past have found the needs of children and of others sufficient reason for their efforts and enjoyed a sense of personal fulfillment, even in the most difficult circumstances, as they saw their children develop in stature of body and of mind. EVEN TODAY Even today when conditions are considerably better for many women, when opportunities for self-improvement and_ personal enjoyment are numerous, the basic personal needs remain. In order to be happy in her role, a woman should see purpose in her efforts and enjoy a feeling of self-fulfillment. In _ lesson 3 of the Melchizedek Priesthood course of study, President Clark takes us step-by-step through the guiding path of motherhood, painting an overall picture of the mother and child relationship: But the full glory of motherhood is not yet reached when her child comes forth into this world of trial, nor is her opportunity for service passed when her creation breathes the breath of life. Still from the dust of the earth she must fabricate the food that keeps alive and nourishes the little one. She not only feeds, but clothes it. She cares for it by day and watches over it by night. When illness comes, she nurses it with that near divine love that fills her heart. She gently leads its faltering steps, till it walks alone. She helps to frame its first lisps and teaches it the full art of speech. As consciousness matures, she deftly sows into the plastic mind the love of God, of truth; and, as the years flow by and youth comes on, she adds the love of honor, of honesty, of sobriety, of industry, of chastity. She teaches, bit by bit, loyalty and reverence and devotion. She implants and makes part of the growing, virgin intellect an understanding of the restored gospel. She steadies the swaying will when temptation first comes. She builds into the warp and woof of her creation, selfcontrol, independence, righteousness, love of God, and a desire and will to serve him. (Jbid., lesson 3.) The foregoing paragraph enumerates desirable personal qualities which are not acquired in a day, a month, or a year. All of them, in fact, may require a lifetime of consistent effort on the part of both mother and child. As we reread the foregoing excerpt we note the following characteristics: honesty, self-control, sobriety, chastity, honor, devotion, independence, reverence, a love for truth and of God. What a challenge it is to be in a position where one may influence another individual toward developing these qualities! Here is purpose enough for any woman. No Latter-day Saint woman can read this paragraph thoughtfully without being moved by the great human potential and by the magnitude and power of a mother's influence! Discussion Questions 1. Although engaged in the most challenging and rewarding calling in the world, why do some women become discouraged, even to the point of inducing emotional illnesses? 2. Do you think they are dissatisfied with the woman-role generally or merely with particular aspects of it? Lesson Department 3. What practical help can we give the woman who says, "What I do is so - trivial so unimportant?" 4. How may family relationships be affected if the mother is habitually unhappy with her inherent role? ASK THE WOMAN SHE KNOWS Emma and Jean have similar economic backgrounds. Both are mothers. Their contrasting comments relative to the role of wife and mother follow: Emma: What is wrong with me? I am busy from the moment I rise in the morning until I go to bed at night to say nothing of the nights when one or another of our six children is ill and then I'm up half the night. I never seem to catch up just get the bathroom scrubbed and the dishes washed and it is time to do them over again. Then laundry in the basement, closets to be cleaned, and always another meal just around the corner. I believe the old saying, "A* man's work is from sun to sun, but a woman's work is never done." Sometimes I wish I were a man. What is so important about all this household trivia, the irritation of children's quarrels, and the endless routine of bedroom, and dishes? Ask any woman, she knows, how much work it is to keep up a house. Drab, that's what I call it. Discussion Questions 1. What advice would you give to Emma? 2. Would this attitude, in your opinion, likely be confined to the busy years when children are in the home, or is it likely a chronic attitude? 3. What does Emma need in addition to better home management? Jean also has six children. She speaks of the role of wife and mother in terms of her own mother's teaching. She says: 

69 January 1970

 Our mother impressed us with the idea that a cheerful disposition is about the best thing a girl can take to the altar. She said it is evidence that one is well on the road to matunity. It helps you to live agreeably with others and with yourself. If you can't enjoy yourself, what on earth are you going to do? In little consistent ways she taught her daughters to see that wifehood, and especially motherhood, are the most exciting and rewarding callings in all the world. Some of the ideas we grew up with we call "Mama's Special Ten." 1. Behonest. If you are honest in your thinking, you have a pretty good chance of developing a sound perspective of yourself and situations around you. 2. There is no substitute for a moral life. Chastity is worth the price, whatever it may be. 3. Refuse to feel sorry for yourself and you will somehow find an inner strength that will help you to endure often to endure happily. 4. Be willing to work. When women through the centuries have seen what had to be done, they have rolled up their sleeves and have done it. 5. Work toward perfection in yourself but don't demand it in others. Cultivate the attitude of liking things and people who are a little this side of perfection. This makes life easier. 6. Prepare for economic reverses by denying yourself and your family some of the little luxuries you could afford to have. 7. Develop a sense of humor and use it, for it is the human sunshine that helps you take disappointment and it may even dull the sharp edges of adversity. 8. Housework is as drab or as interesting as the housewife. 9. If you are creative you can make beauty from materials most people would cast away. Help children to get creative satisfaction from little things daisies in a teacup or changing the bed onto the other side of the room. 10. Above all things, remember this: The Lord wants you to be a good mother. Ask him, humbly and earnestly, to help you. He will. 70 THE PRUDENT CARE OF OBJECTIVES For Class Participation Do you believe the following statements? Discuss. 1. In the comments of Emma there is no indication that she has objectives outside the duties of housekeeping. If at one time she did have such specific goals, they likely have been shaken out the window by the duster. Her only reference to the children is that of being irritated by their quarreling. She does not indicate interest in helping them to resolve their difficulties. There is no indication that she is concerned about their moral or spiritual development. Assuming that her negative attitude is habitual, we may say that she cannot see the forest for looking at the trees. 2. Jean's mother was taking good care of her objectives. She saw purpose in the role of wife and mother, and, apparently, personal fulfillment for her came in guiding the children in the direction of those objectives. By enlarging their horizon in practical ways, she was helping them to glimpse the vision of their high destiny. She definitely was concerned with the moral and spiritual development of the children and she apparently knew what many women fail to realize: that their inherent role places them in a position to become an expert in the most important area of life that of human relations. WHAT SHOULD BE THERE President Clark devotes the latter part of Melchizedek Priesthood lesson 3 to the right kind of home the perfect home the home toward which Latter-day Saint parents should direct their guiding efforts. His enumeration includes things, conditions, and attitudes which we know should be in a good home but about which we frequently need to be reminded. We quote from him: If you are going to build the right kind of a home that shall be a place in which you can train, in the ways of God, these spirits whom you have invited to come to you (they are not intruders), then there must be in that home, love. There can be no real home life where there is no love. Next, there must be prayer; a prayerless abode is not a home. There must be in that home, honor. We must be honorable among ourselves, as parents, as children, as brothers and sisters. There must be mutual respect. We must respect one another. Even love will not take the place of respect. There must be example. We, the parents, must set the example... Do not think that your children will walk the straight and narrow paths, if your lives make detours. Patience in abundance and a full measure of charity must be found there. Children must have a welcome.... Therein must be kindliness; loving trust must throw its stalwart arms about them. Faith must cover the home as a kindly light; unbelief must be given no shelter. (Ibid., lesson 2.) Lesson Department SUMMARY All individuals need to have a goal and to see purpose in what they do to achieve that goal if they are to experience satisfaction and self-fulfillment in their personal efforts. The Latter-day Saint mother who understands the ultimate destiny of the earthly family unit in the celestial family of the Father, has such a goal a glorious goal! She should keep it always in mind in order that it shall not be obscured by the innumerable, patience-demanding activities of day-to-day living. If she does this, she will find happiness in the loving services of motherhood, for she will be purposefully motivated in her daily parental responsibilities. She will realize self-fulfillment in every step each family member makes on the mortal road to immortal glory. Oy OS LESSONS I must learn the length of another path Companioned only by a fallen leaf. Out of silence how to conjure sound And how to bend my brittleness to grief. Learn again the solace of a tear, That parting is not once, but multiplied And sure as shadows on a sunny day Forever dark and certain at my side How eyes may turn in inconsistency, That loss is a hand withdrawing from my own. The gaining and the giving of a freedom, For each must learn at length to walk alone.