[Vol57 | January 1970 | Page 37 | General Feature | Always Set a Good Table Betty | Jan Murphy]
I "Always set a good table," our teacher re-emphasized. Through the years I have carried the image of those tables in my mind. A colored place mat, a seasonal centerpiece, a sprig of parsley are little bits of elegance which make a world of difference! THOUGHTS OF AN EARTH-BOUND WIFE I stand in wondrous awe of you Who say, with singular authority, The moon's not blue, Whose feet have trodden lunar soil, Who shoot through space while I do kitchen toil. Those famous feet now rest beneath my table. The world is yours. Will ever I be able To bring my earth-bound self to someday speak (To you) Of homely things, such as a faucet leak! Leanor J. Brown 37 a - TESTIMONY ME ETING Anna Kivekas Nokia, F inland 4 =) gw "In the Relief Society Ihave to listen to our inspiring lessons. Learned so much: 1 have learned And I am particularly thankful good food for My family, to take classesThey give of their time pride in 4 clean and nice home. And they give of themselves. - - iy Its cleanliness depends on me, on Yes, surely, Beda Virtanen my work. And when J thank thought again, surely that sister Heavenly Father for my children, is happy to be here, with those 1 also thank him for Relief Sobad legs of hers and purdened ciety, where 1 have learned SO with age as she is, I suppose she many useful things about how doesn't get ground too much. To rear and teach children." Why don't I feel the same as she With bent head and downcast about the Jessons, to me they to the young sister testifyingOh, again. Oh, why doesn't anyone But now, with the children all _. And particularly I wish gone to make their ow? Homes 0 express My thankfulness that I and her husband still a nonmay be 4 member of the Relief member, and especially since she Society. When I come here to had returned to full-time work, meeting it is like stepping into now Relief Society seemed SO disanother world, or at least quite tant, somehow, 35 if it did not another atmosphere. Oh, it ls S0 concern her any more. Well, she difficult for me to explain, but had not been to meetings for a you, sisters, will surely underlong time --- how long was it stand, when I tell you that what really? Three years. + yes, for 1 experience here with you ls three whole years. She had not something [have experienced only been to 4 single Relief Society when as 4 child I was visiting meeting. She almost wished she my grandmother. In her home had not come this time either. There was warmth and security: I] am so thankful for you Oh, yes; that I felt in our own all, my sisters -- it is such a home, t0 , but at Grandma's pleasure to me to come here and there was something more, 4 feeling of festivity because I was wearing my good clothes, and Mother had told me to behave, and Grandma served her best cookies, and there was a shining white cloth on the table. Grandmother has long been out of this world and it is a long time since I was a child, but that feeling I have experienced anew here in Relief Society. I am_ thankful that I may be here, that I may learn and develop along with you sisters."' But I am not one of you! I don't learn anything new, I am an outsider, I am alone. Beda Virtanen frowned with violent emotion. Suddenly she became aware of the deep silence in the room. Nervously she looked up and met the gaze of the Relief Society president. The president nodded to her kindly and encouragingly. Beda Virtanen rose. "IT wish to express thankfulness to my Heavenly Father that I, too, have a testimony of the gospel," she began in a very formal voice. "For a long time I have not been to meetings, but all the time I have known and I know now that this is Christ's own Church, that David O. McKay is the prophet of the Lord." Her voice softened. "A long time ago, when I used regularly to attend meetings I felt like you do It was so wonderful here..." Her voice became muffled and she finished quickly, "I am happy that I have been able to come here again... In spite of all." The meeting was over and the sisters were leaving, chatting happily. Beda Virtanen delayed her going by putting her books carefully into her bag. She did Testimony Meeting not want to go with the others, she would have nothing to say to anyone. "Sister Virtanen." The Relief Society president sat down on the empty chair beside her: "There is something I'd like to talk to you about." "Ves?" "Well, perhaps you have heard that Sister Kantola is moving to another town? In fact, today she gave the lesson for the last time in this branch. We haven't as yet a new leader for the spiritual living class, so now I ask you the branch president agrees would you be willing to accept that assignment?" Beda Virtanen was surprised. She did not know what to say. The president continued: "I have a feeling that in you we would get another good class leader like Sister Kantola, atid we will all be happy if you accept." "Well " said Beda Virtanen slowly, "thanks for your confidence.... Do you really think I could.?" "Yes, we do indeed. We are sure of it. So we can trust you to take care of the lesson next month?" "Ye-es "Good. And thank you. But there is another matter. Sister Kantola has also been a visiting teacher. Could you perhaps replace her in that capacity, too?" But afterwards Beda Virtanen could not understand why she had accepted the assignments. If she had not been so surprised she would most certainly have refused. But since she had promised, there was hardly anything else she could do than to give it a try at least. Bd 

33 January 1970

 Three months later Beda Virtanen once again sat listening to the sisters' testimonies. She had given the lesson, and she knew she had done it well. She felt calm and serene. When she arose to testify, she felt as if she wanted to burst out singing. "I am thankful to my Heavenly Father for my opportunity to serve. In his wisdom he has given us a Society, the success of which depends on each and every, member, on our willingness to serve, on our ability to cooperate. A sister once expressed thankfulness for the sisters who serve as class leaders. For my part, I wish to express my deep gratitude and thankfulness that I am one of those who have been called to serve in that capacity. It has been a blessing to me it is so still, it is every time so rewarding. While serving others we forget ourselves." Looking down at her own hands the Relief Society president sat listening, nodding thoughtfully to herself.