[Vol57 | January 1970 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Lesson | Title: 63 Visiting Teacher Message— True Conversion Alice Colton Smith]
f/mt/( 
It  was  such  a  thrill  to  read  the  article  in  the  September  1969  Magazine  on  "The  Indians 
of  Guatemala."  I  was  privileged  to  be  in  a  group  of  stake  M-Men  and  Gleaners  in  1967 
(I  think)  when  Daniel  Mich  and  Brother  Tay  of  Guatemala  were  in  my  home  town  (Provo) 
working  on  the  translation  of  The  Book  of  Mormon.  They  spoke  to  our  group  through 
interpreters  and  told  the  stories  of  their  conversion  and  the  very  story  of  the  dream 
Daniel  Mich  had  of  President  McKay.  It  was  one  of  the  most  spiritual  meetings  I  had 
ever  attended.  These  men  were  humble  and  grateful  for  the  gospel.  Although  I  am 
only  twenty-two  and  have  been  married  only  two  years,  I  am  proud  to  be  a  part  of 
Relief  Society  and  I  always  read  the  Magazine  and  enjoy  it.  I  appreciate  the  contribu- 
tions of  the  General  Authorities.  Anita  Davis,  Provo,  Utah 
I  have  just  received  my  September  Magazine,  and  I  cannot  express  enough  all  my 
gratitude  for  it.  I  can  hardly  wait  to  relate  to  my  family  the  testimonies  and  conversion 
of  the  woman  of  Guatemala  and  Brother  Daniel  Mich,  the  account  of  which  appears 
in  Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter's  article  "The  Indians  of  Guatemala."  Since  our  home 
evenings  are  centered  around  The  Book  of  Mormon,  this  will  be  a  most  spiritual  and 
appropriate  addition  to  our  next  lesson.  I  thank  Elder  Hunter  for  his  inspiring  article. 
The  all-too-brief  travelogue  on  Rome  by  Jean  A.  Jensen,  with  its  beautiful  pictures,  is 
truly  outstanding.  I  was  completely  caught  up  in  my  fancy  and  had  a  most  enjoyable 
trip  with  Sister  Jensen.  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  has  been  a  source  of  strength 
and  joy  to  me  for  many  years.  Betty  M.  Embleton,  Needles,  California 
Thanks  so  much  for  the  wonderful  Relief  Society  Magazine.  It  is  always  good  to  know 
that  no  matter  where  we  go  in  the  world  the  guiding  influence  of  the  Church  is  with  us. 
it  makes  me  as  a  Relief  Society  member  feel  warm  and  happy.  I  wish  everyone  could 
read  the  material  in  the  Magazine.  It  could  help  them  in  everyday  life,  as  it  does  my 
family  and  me.  Jean  Nederbrock,  Anchorage,  Alaska 
I  thoroughly  enjoy  the  Magazine.  It  is  like  a  ray  of  sunshine  for  it  seems  that  I  always 
open  the  book  and  read  something  that  strengthens  me  at  that  particular  time.  We  as 
Latter-day  Saint  people  are  blessed  in  so  many  ways.  I  consider  the  Magazine  a 
blessing  and  would  like  to  express  my  gratefulness  to  Sister  Sue  Hedgpeth  of  Phoenix, 
Arizona,  for  introducing  me  to  the  Magazine  and  for  being  the  influence  for  our  con- 
version in  1968.  Now  my  husband  and  I  and  our  four  children  are  here  in  the  East, 
where  it  is  a  little  more  of  a  challenge  in  some  ways  to  live  the  Church  standards.  It 
is  a  comfort  to  have  such  help  as  The  Relief  Society  Magazine. 
Marilyn  Miller,  Frederick,  Maryland 
Today  the  Magazine  arrived  with  the  picture  and  my  poem  (November  1969,  page  832). 
The  little  girl  is  so  like  mine.  The  soft  color  is  really  lovely.  This  I  would  frame— except 
I  can  never  bear  to  tear  the  Magazine.  Leora  Larsen,  Clearfield,  Utah 
We  just  moved  here  from  Clovis,  New  Mexico,  and  while  my  husband  is  at  Clark  AFB 
in  the  Philippines  trying  to  make  arrangements  for  our  housing,  I  will  be  living  here. 
I  dearly  love  the  Magazine  and  the  Relief  Society  meetings  which  I  attended  in  Clovis 
for  some  three  years  since  my  marriage.  The  Relief  Society  in  Clovis  is  the  only  one  I 
have  attended  and  I  can  testify  of  its  strength.  There  are  many  lovely  sisters  in  Clovis 
and  I  shall  miss  them.  I  will  look  forward  to  the  Magazine  here  in  Oregon  and  hope  to 
hear  from  some  of  the  sisters  in  the  Philippines.  Thanks  for  the  Magazine  that  truly 
brightens  a  lonely  wife's  days.  June  L.  Moore,  Klamath  Falls,  Oregon

The 
Magazine      Volume  57     January  1970     Number  1 
Editor  Marianne  C.  Sharp    Associate  Editor  Vesta  P.  Crawford 
Business  Manr.ger  Belle  S.  Spafford 
Special  Features 
1  Happy  New  Year  1970 
4  Responsibility  of  Relief  Society  Women     Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
7  The  Blessings  and  Power  of  the  Priesthood     Mark  E.  Petersen 
22  The  National  Foundation— March  of  Dimes     George  P.  Voss 
30  Binding  the  Magazine     Jennie  R.  Scott 
Fiction 
12      Jerusha  Spends  the  Night— Chapter  1     Hazel  K.  Todd 
24      The  Delicious  Fried  Banana  Stalk     Maryhale  Woolsey 
43      Heart  Room  for  Home— Chapter  8  (Conclusion)    Alice  Morrey  Bailey 
General  Features 
2  From  Near  and  Far
