[Vol57 | January 1970 | Page 1 | Special Feature | Happy New Year 1970 | ]
[Happy New Year 1970]
As the opening year of a new decade approaches we send greetings to our beloved sisters in all the world. We rejoice with you in the blessings which flow down from heaven upon the sisters, and the blessings which attend the work of Relief Society. At the beginning of a New Year, as is the custom, we examine the prospects for the success of Relief Society activities. We pause to appraise the needs of the sisters in this exciting, wonderful dispensation with its sublime and breathtaking accomplishments. We are fully cognizant ot the wickedness and evil rampant in the world and endeavor to make Relief Society a bulwark for the sisters and for the guiding of their families in withstanding the unrighteous temptations of the world, just the same, we know the privilege of having been born into the world at this time. The daughters of God are vital to his work in these latter days. Never have the prospects been brighter for enlarged membership, greater activity by more sisters, more opportunities for spiritual and cultural advancement. Never has the need for Relief Society been more evident. The sisters need the companionship of other sisters with like ideals, the strength of a great God-given organization upon which to depend. Never has the influence of Relief Society been more widespread, more accepted by others. Never have the women of the Church had more opportunity to provide the example of righteous living, proper family relationships, happy, well-cared-for homes, and refining pursuits. Never have education materials been more abundant, more helpful for application to living. Never has there been more work to do, more opportunities for service. The lonely and benighted souls of many call to Relief Society for help. Never has there been greater need for women strong in the faithdedicated, devoted women to carry the yoke of the Lord. Look back, sisters. Let the past be the foundation for the present, the preparation for the future. Give past experience full credit for its achievements. ". . . Ye shall henceforth return no more that way." (Deut. 17:16.) Look up, sisters. Fasten your eyes upon Relief Society now!" ... ye have not passed this way heretofore." (Jos. 3:4.) Do not let your veneration for the past rob you of fullest participation and enjoyment of Relief Society now. Relief Society is fulfilling its destiny. We are seeing the prophecies as to its growth coming to pass. May this New Year carry us farther along the way. Affectionately, General Presidency