[Vol57 | January 1970 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: 72 Cultural Refinement— The Power of Work and the Use of Leisure Bruce B. Clark]
72  Cultural  Refinement— The  Power  of  Work  and  the  Use  of  Leisure     Bruce  B.  Clark 
Poetry 
6  Not  Where  I  Serve,  But  How,  Lettice  O.  Rich;  11  The  Poet,  Ruth  G.  Rothe;  22  Apples  of  Gold, 
Nona  H.  Brown;  23  By  Beauty  Awed,  Linnie  Fisher  Robinson;  29  Sky  Wings,  Betty  W.  Madsen; 
32  The  Rhyme  and  the  Reason,  Iris  W.  Schow;  33  A  Sprig  of  Green  Alice  Brady  Myers;  37 
Thoughts  of  An  Earth-bound  Wife,  Leanor  J.  Brown;  42  A  Miniature  Loaf  of  Bread,  Beulah  Huish 
Sadleir;  64  Tomorrow's  Embryo,  Margaret  B.  Shomaker;  71  Lessons,  Dorothy  J.  Roberts;  76  Mood, 
Theodora  Graham;  77  Full  Cycle,  Kathryn  Kay;  78  Chile,  My  Child,  Leora  Larsen. 
The  Cover:  Winter  in  the  Wasatch  Mountains,  Utah,  Transparency  by  Hal  Rumel,  Lithographed  in 
Full  Color  by  Deseret  News  Press  •  Frontispiece:  A  Pattern  of  Boughs  and  Branches,  Photograph 
by  Harold  M.  Lambert  Studios  •  Art  Layout:  Dick  Scopes  •  Illustrations:  Mary  Scopes 
Published  monthly  by  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter  day  Saints.  ©1970 
by  the  Relief  Society  General  Board  Association.  Editorial  and  Business  Office;  76  North  Main  Street,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  84111: 
Phone  364  2511;  Subscription  Price  $2.00  a  year;  foreign,  $2.00  a  year;  20*  a  copy,  payable  in  advance.  The  Magazine  is  not 
sent  after  subscription  expires  Nc  back  numbers  can  be  supplied  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be  missed  Report 
change  of  address  at  once,  giving  old  and  new  address.  Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18.-  1914,  at  the  Post  Office, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under  the  Act  of  March  3.  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  in  section 
1103.  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned  unless  return  postage  is  enclosed. 
Reiected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only.  The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  manuscripts

Responsibility 
of 
Relief  Society 
Women 
President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Of  the  First  Presidency 
[Address  Delivered  at  the  Officers  Meet- 
ing of  Relief  Society  Annual  General 
Conference,  October  1,  1969] 
■  My  dear  sisters,  here  we  are 
again  at  another  conference  and 
where  the  time  has  gone,  I  do 
not  know.  I  see  a  few  brethren  in 
the  audience,  and  I  am  sure  that 
we  welcome  them  at  this  gather- 
ing. You  know  I  am  a  member 
of  the  Relief  Society  because  I 
am  one  of  their  advisors,  along 
with  Brother  Lee  and  Brother 
Romney,  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  so  you  will  have  to  put 
up  with  me,  but  we  are  very 
happy  to  be  a  part  of  this  great 
and  glorious  organization. 
You  wonderful  women  are 
doing  a  marvelous  work  and  are 
to  be  congratulated  on  the  results, 
and  all  I  ask  is  for  you  good  sis- 
ters to  be  true  and  faithful  and 
magnify  your  callings  in  this  won- 
derful organization. 
Now  I  think  it  would  be  proper 
for  me  to  give  some  instructions 
taken  from  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith's  writings  because  some- 
times we  forget  what  our  duties 
are,  so  with  the  help  of  the  Lord 
and  your  faith  and  prayers,  I 
shall  give  to  you  some  of  the  in- 
structions given  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  and  while  I  men- 
tion the  Prophet,  let  me  add  that 
President  McKay  sends  his  love 
and  blessings  to  you  sisters  and 
he  appreciates  the  work  that  you 
are  doing. 
The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
said:  ".  .  .  some  of  our  most  in- 
telligent, humane,  philanthropic 
and  respectable  ladies  [are  mem- 
bers of  this  society]  and  we  are 
well  assured  from  a  knowledge 
of  those  pure  principles  of  benev- 
olence that  flow  spontaneously 
from  their  humane  and  philan- 
thropic bosoms,  that  with  the 
resources  they  will  have  at  com- 
mand, they  will  fly  to  the  relief 
of  the  stranger;  and  will  pour  oil 
and  wine  to  the  wounded  heart 
of  the  distressed;  they  will  dry 
up  the  tears  of  the  orphan  and 
make  the  widow's  heart  to  re- 
joice. 
"Our  women  have  always  been

Responsibility  of  Relief  Society  Women 
signalized  for  their  acts  of  benev- 
olence and  kindness.  ...  we 
feel  convinced  that  with  their 
concentrated  efforts  the  condition 
of  the  suffering  poor,  of  the 
stranger  and  the  fatherless  will 
be  ameliorated." 
I  am  interested  in  this  Society 
as  was  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,