[Vol57 | January 1970 | Page 7 | Special Feature | The Blessings and Power of the Priesthood | Mark E. Petersen]
the priesthood is properly understood and honored and where its influence abounds, there will be no family quarrels, The Blessings and Power of the Priesthood no disrupted homes, no deception, no infidelity, and no divorce. Rather there will be harmony and joy. Is not. Christ the Prince of Peace, and is not the priesthood his? Is it not truly that which is after the holy order of the Son of God? Then let us all seek to bring it into our homes and recognize in it the source of peace and happiness. So, sisters, encourage your husbands to magnify the priesthood and to act properly in the office to which they have been called. Teach your sons to look forward to the day of their ordination that they, too, may understand its true significance and also honor it. Encourage your husbands to preside with dignity in your homes. Recognize them as the priestly presidents of the family. It will pay you great dividends in harmony in the home. Use your influence to help them to be the kind of family patriarchs you would like them to be. Peace comes from God. He is its only source. Your husbands, like you yourselves, are servants of God. The power they have obtained through ordination is the key to peace. You sisters help that key to turn and unlock the blessings of heaven for your home. Do it by honoring God's priesthood yourselves and encouraging your husbands to magnify it in their daily lives, at home, at work, and in the Church. It is regrettable indeed that some men dishonor their priesthood and they do so in many =) January 1970 ways. It does not appear only in criminal acts of which a few are guilty, not only in being unchaste, dishonest, or even in apostasy from the Church. But in other ways it occurs more frequently. For example, there are few more unmanly habits than the exercise of cruelty in the home, discourtesy to wife or children on the part of a husband or father who may assume that he is the dictator of the home and that "the king can do no wrong." Some men try to increase their own importance by belittling their wives and children, even before other people, making them appear as second class or inferior citizens. Such disrespect can only lead to resentment and many other troubles, and in extreme cases even to divorce. Just as no unclean thing may enter the kingdom of heaven, likewise no unkind person will ever enter there. We merit admittance to that realm only through our humility and sincere obedience to the laws of Christ who loved little children and treated all women even sinners with respect. It is he who is the Prince of Peace, and his peace includes peace in the home. It is he who taught us to be kind to one another and that also includes the home. He taught forgiveness, tolerance, patience, and_ longsuffering, all of which are at their best when exercised in the home. Do you suppose that anyone can enter his presence without those basic attributes? And yet such violations are almost habitual in some homes. As brethren create such circum- 10 stances in the home by their own selfishness or short-sightedness, they dishonor and desecrate the priesthood which they bear. Violations of God'slaws in secret are nevertheless infractions of his commandments, and the fact that they may occur within the four walls of a home and not in public does not lessen their seriousness in any degree. Some men present a pious appearance in public, but in their homes behave just the opposite. Such men in a most hypocritical manner dishonor the priesthood. And God despises hypocrites. Not only should men be kind to their wives and children and treat them with loving consideration, but by their own example they must teach their sons to do likewise. Respect for womankind is an integral part of honoring the priesthood. Since the priesthood is actually after the order of the Son of God, the attributes of the Son of God should characterize all those who belong to that order. We must remember That the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven, and that the powers of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. That they may be conferred upon us, it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man. (D&C 121:36-37.) It is a good thing to read in our homes as we teach our sons and our husbands some of their rei sponsibilities with respect to the priesthood. But when that heavenly power is recognized for what it truly is and is respected by parents and children alike, it can bring to every family joy unspeakable in this life and a continuation of the family ties throughout all eternity. The home in a sense is like a miniature branch of the Church. The program of the Church should prevail and the priesthood should preside there in love and righteousness, and love and harmony should exist among all present. The gospel should be taught there even more effectively than anywhere else. And this should be done in a relaxed atmosphere. It is in such circumstances that children learn to love and enjoy the gospel, but let us remember that they will obey the gospel only as they enjoy it. We recognize that there are circumstances in many families which deprive them of the daily presence of the priesthood in the home. In some instances, fathers are not members of the Church. In others, husbands. And fathers have passed away. And then we have many good women who have not as yet found the opportunity for a proper marriage.