Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES
Abraham Lincoln Quotations from His Speeches 75
"Seek Ye First the Kingdom of God" 81
The Answer Second Prize Story 85
The Magic Word "Efficiency" Lucille C. Richards 101
Home Sweet Home Gail Johnson 109
Elizabeth Williamson 115

FICTION
Janath Russell Cannon 89
Windy Hilltop Chapter 1 Ezra J. Poulsen 95
The Parking Lot 104

GENERAL FEATURES
Sixty Years Ago 106
Woman's Sphere 107
Editorial: Women and War Marianne C. Sharp 108
Congratulations 109
Notes to the Field: Collecting Antiques 110
Notes From the Field General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 116

LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology: "Lord of the Sabbath"; "The Chosen Twelve" Elder Don B. Colton 127
Visiting Teachers Messages: Beautification President Amy Brown Lyman 131
Work Meeting Sewing: Lesson 7 Plackets and Zippers Jean Ridges Jennings 133
Jean Ridges Jennings 134
Literature: Appreciation Values in Doctrine and Covenants Reading Elder H. Wayne Driggs 135
Social Science Elder Joseph Jacobs 138

POETRY
Grace Sayre 73
Ora Pate Stewart 80
Eva Willes Wangsgaard 84

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28
Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. 
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 35, NO. 2 FEBRUARY 1948
Abraham Lincoln (1809 - 1865) "Let us have faith that right makes might; and in that faith let us to the end, dare to do our duty as we understand it." "Why should there not be a patient confidence in the ultimate justice of the people?" "..
That from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause..." "The world has never had a good definition of the word liberty, and the American people, just now, are much in want of one." ",.. To do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among... All nations." "Fondly do we hope, fervently do we pray, that this mighty scourge of war may speedily pass away." "Among free men there can be no successful appeal from the ballot to the bullet..." "If we do not make common cause to save the good old ship of the Union on this voyage, nobody will have a chance to pilot her on another voyage." "The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether." "At what point then is the approach of danger to be expected? I answer if it ever reach us it must spring up amongst us; it cannot come from abroad. If destruction be our lot, we must ourselves be its author and finisher. As a nation of free men, we must live through all time or die by suicide." "Character is like a tree and reputation like its shadow. The shadow is what we think of it; the tree is the real thing." "What is conservatism? Is it not adherence to the old and tried, against the new and untried?" The Cover: '"Twelve-Mile Canyon, Near Gunnison, Utah.
Photograph by Grace T. Kirton.
Copyright by Eugene A. Perry STATUE OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN By Augustus Saint-Gaudens Lincoln Park, Chicago, Illinois "Sook Ye First the Kingdom of God" Edith S. Elliott Member, Relief Society General Board (Address Delivered at the Annual Relief Society General Conference, October 2, 1947) SINCE the beginning of time S man has had the opportunity to be guided in his conduct in thought and action by our Heavenly Father. "God created man in his own image. In the image of God created he him, male and female created he them." The mere fact that man is a product of God's creation assures us that he had an interest in the achievement or he would not have gone to all the necessary work for the ultimate accomplishment.
With the creation of man our Heavenly Father's interest in his well-being remained ever-constant, as witnessed in the holy scriptures and the revelations given for us in our day.
Because of his knowledge of universal and eternal laws, he has been anxious for his earthly children to reap the rewards gained by knowledge of and obedience to them.
These laws function with undisturbed accuracy.
Like temporal laws when, if not kept, punishment and regret follow. Our Heavenly Father wants us to be happy and enjoy life in its fullness. He has told us that "man is that he might have joy." In order to.
Experience the joy and happiness in store for us, the S