WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	(The ladies semi-monthly meeting was held in
the 14th, ward Assembly rooms on Saturday,
Nov. 9, 1889, Pres. M. Isabella Horne pre-
siding. In the stand were Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, Pres. of the Relief Society and Mrs.
Elmina S. Taylor, Pres. of the Young Ladies
Associations and Mrs. E. B. Wells, Editor of
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.)
	The meeting opened with singing.
	     "When the voice of friendship's heard," etc,
	Prayer was offered by Mrs. M. W. Wilcox,
singing.
	     “Do what is right let the consequence follow,”
	Pres. Horne made some opening remarks
spoke of having been in the Logan Temple
recently, and the influence she enjoyed also
that she attended the Relief Society Conference
of Cache Stake at Logan. “We sisters do
not want to be among the number of those
spoken of by the prophet, when he uttered
the words, “Wo unto the women who are at
ease in Zion,” “we are constantly taught that
we should be united and earnest in living our
religion;” she then referred to the Savior’s
words, when upon the earth, and the
prophecies uttered, and explained their appli-
cation to the day in which we live, said “let
us not be foolish virgins but wise and diligent,”
and gave the meeting into the hands of the
sisters.
[Column 2]
	Mrs. E. B. Wells, spoke upon the condition
of the people politically, and urged the sisters
to use their utmost endeavors to assist the
People’s Party in every possible way; although
they were deprived of the ballot, they had the
privilege of becoming members of the People’s
Party clubs, and of attending the meetings and
getting an understanding of all matters per-
taining to the issues now pending, and by
doing this would be able to exert a powerful
influence in the right direction with fathers,
husbands, brothers and sons, and give expres-
sion to the loyalty and patriotism that burned
as brightly in the hearts of women, as in those
of men and had in all ages  of the world;
women had as much at stake in the present
crisis as men had, women had endured as
much here, and given as much genuine help in
making homes in this barren desert, and should
make the utmost exertion to stimulate with
faith and energy the voters of the People’s
Party. Urged the sisters to read the daily
papers, and referred them to the article from
the pen of Apostle F. M. Lyman in the No-
vember number of the Contributor. Rejoiced
to see the young men training in riding and
marching clubs and thought how grand the
young ladies would look on horseback, as in
times past when the military were on parade.
	Pres. Horne followed speaking eloquently
upon the same subject and added that the
“Liberal” party boasted of the improvements
they would make etc,” expend a million of
dollars, but where would the money come
from, the people of course would be taxed for
all this extravagance, she thought the Lord
required us in this and in every emergency to
help ourselves and when we had done our
utmost He would lend His aid and support.
Referred to the example of Tooele Co. and
also spoke of the military parades in Nauvoo
in the days of Joseph the prophet,and that he
always had ladies out on horseback whenever
the Nauvoo Legion were out exercising.
	Pres. Zina D. H. Young spoke in a similar
strain, she wished we could infuse this spirit
into the hearts of our neighbors and
friends, referred to the trials of Nauvoo when
so many were sick with ague, the sorrows
afterwards and our prosperity here in the
valleys of the mountains, thought we should
live nearer to the Lord, pray every day, and
fast every Sunday—straws will show which
way the mind blows; we should be examples
of purity; the same spirit is on the earth now
that was upon it when the Savior was crucified.
The Lord is for His people, keep close to the
body of the tree, hold fast to the iron rod,
the Saints are the leaven spoken of; as long as
one half are for the kingdom of God He will
be on our side and we need not fear.”  A
verse of the hymn. “The spirit of God like
a fire is burningt’ was sung.
	(Sister Jane James burst forth in praise to
the Lord and spoke in the gift of tongues.
Sister Zina gave the interpretation.)
	Sister Barrows bore her testimony to the
truth of the Latter-day work; and referred to
her husband’s account of the days of Nauvoo.
Thought it was necessary to be very careful;
and that unless we do our duty we shall be
burdened greater and more heavily, rejoiced
that her sons were in the right path and also
her daughters.
	Sister Mary Dyer bore a strong testimony.
	Sister E. Stevenson, “we are commanded to
meet together often, we all need to be mission-
aries and impart to others the good words we
hear from time to time. Our political situation
calls for our attention at the present time, we
must be diligent, the prayers of the Saints
avail much, we built up this place, we crossed
the plains in early days and endured priva-
tions; those who come now have comparatively
easy circumstances and are not prepared to
pass through trials, we must take them by the
[Column 3]
hand, and set an example worthy, by living
our religion. We must watch over our young
girls, dress them modestly and not like butter-
flies; and study economy, put away vanities
of all kinds, Sister Eliza always spoke against
these things and Sister Woodruff spoke of the 
little things that hindered us. Brother Kim-
ball used to say “it was the little foxes that
spoiled the vines.”
	Sister Frances Smith said it was 39 years
since she was baptized into the church; she re-
joiced in the Gospel and in all its principles.
Her sons were on the right side, they would
all vote for the Peoples Party, she had never
felt discouraged in regard to our political
situation, thought we should have faith and
take courage, right would triumph.
	Sister Zina made some further remarks and
referred to the Commissioners Report and ad-
vised the sisters to read it and also the report
of His Excellency Gov. Thomas; these men
know their statements are false. the mothers
should be informed upon all these points.
Repeated some of the sayings of Joseph the
Prophet in regard to the persecutions of the
saints.
	Sisters Diana Reid, Julia M. K. Wenner-
holm, Lois Hook, Jeanette Morris, Helen
Houlton and M. A. E. Watmough, each spoke
feelingly upon the political situation, and the
necessity of keeping the commandments of
God being ever earnest and prayerful and also 
watchful. Meeting adjourned for two weeks,
congregation rose and sung Doxology. Bene-
diction by sister E. S. Taylor.


