BY MRS. JULIA CRUSE HOWE.

	In addressing the members of Mutual Improve-
ment Associations of this Ward this evening, I
[column 2]
desire to say something that may cause you to
more fully realize your privileges and blessings;
and the consequent responsibilities that rest upon
you as intelligent sons and daughters of God.
	These Associations were organized by inspira-
tion, that you my young brethren may qualify
yourselves for Missionaries—and for other respon-
sible duties pertaining to building up the Church
and Kingdom of God, and establishing righteous-
ness upon the earth. And the mission of woman
is of equal importance and their duties as varied
as that of the brethren. Our exaltation hereafter
will be in proportion to our faithfulness and dili-
gence in this probation. 
	It is our privilege to stand as saviors upon
Mount Zion. And I realize that there is a field
open in this direction, in our own midst. And it
is your privilege and duty to use your influence in
stemming the tide of infidelity that is creeping in
amongst us. This may seem a harsh expression,
but I will admit, there are many young gentleman
and ladies who ignore the necessity of these As-
sociations—and who take pleasure in the vanities
and customs of the Gentile world, and love their
society. And though innocent of any intentional
wrong—yet they stand on dangerous ground.
	There is a sort of science which is termed
"Mind Cure;" faith in which is gaining ground
among us. There is also spiritual, or religious
science, an attractive name to catch the unwary.
	And at our fourteenth Ward meeting a few
weeks ago, a sister was telling of some young
people of her acquaintance being infatuated with
an instrument called the Planchette. Some present
may not know what this instrument is like, and I
cannot describe it for I never saw one, but twenty
years ago, or more, when spiritual rappings were
the craze, I was visiting a family of a prominent
member of the church, and they regretted very
much that their Planchette was loaned out, and told
of its wonderful operations. For instance, a
young lady present, whose father, by the bye, at
the time of his death was one of the three first
presidents of the church, enquired through this
instrument the name of the man she would marry.
The instrument wrote the name, and wonderful
to relate in the same peculiar handwriting as the
gentleman's own autograph.
	She subsequently married this man, and they
are both apostates. And soon after this the
family previously referred to, apostatized, and
professsed to have revelation from God, and they
became infidels to the Gospel revealed through
the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	This is only one of many instances, that might
be related, to show the evil result of tampering
with things that are in opposition to the teachings
of the Priesthood, and which conflict with the
principles of the Gospel.
	John the beloved disciple of Jesus, in one of
his Epistles said: "Beloved, believe not every
spirit, but try the spirits whether they are of God;
because many false prophets are gone out into the
world, and this was the test in that day. Every
spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is
come in the flesh, is not of God. The test to-day
is—those who deny that Joseph Smith conversed
with God the Father and His son Jesus Christ—
and that the Priesthood was restored through him
with all its gifts and blessings, the gifts of healing,
prophecy, speaking in tongues, interpretation of
tongues, etc., is not of God.
	I can testify that these blessings are in the
Church at the present time, though not to the ex-
tent it is our privilege to enjoy them, and this be-
cause of our lack of faith. Owing to our indul-
gence in vanity and folly and lack of love towards
one another. 
	Paul in his Epistle to the Thessalonians refer-
ring to this time, and those people who recieve
not the truth but reject it. said: "That for this
cause God shall send them strong delusions, that


they should believe a lie, that they all might be
damned who believed not the truth."
	Satan was permitted to exercise his power in
the days of Moses. When Moses and Aaron pre-
sented themselves before King Pharaoh to plead
in behalf of the children of Israel, that they may
go and offer sacrifice to their God, to prove the 
power and Omnipotence of that God, Aaron did
as Moses commanded, and threw down his rod
and it became a serpent. Pharaoh called his wise
men and the Magicians and they did the same. 
But the sequel goes to prove that Aaron's ser-
pent swallowed up the serpents of the Magicians.
	And so it will be ere long, when the Lord has
proven His people, and they are sufficiently
humble He will manifest His power through His
servants who hold the Priesthood, in the deliver-
ance of His people, and the confounding of their
enemies. And the miracles to be wrought will
eclipse any performed in former dispensations. 
	For Zion will arise and shine, and the glory of
her God will rest upon her, and all her inhabitants
will be righteous.
	And it will be those stalwart sons and fair
daughters of Zion, who are now improving their
golden opportunities, and striving to keep all the
commandments of God, searching for knowledge
through the proper channel, and whose aspira-
tions are heavenward, that will be chosen to bring 
to pass this heavenly state of things.
	But they cannot attain unto this, only by sacri-
fice. If we expect to be joint-heirs with Christ,
we must be willing to do the will of God in all
things. And Christ has promised that if we will 
take His yoke upon us and learn of Him, His yoke
will be easy and His burden light. 
	If you wish to know in regard to your future
my young brethren and sisters, I would advise
you to get your Patriarchal blessing; and in all
probability you will find that you are of the blood
of Ephraim and the royal seed of Joseph. And 
that should stimulate you to act nobly and worthy
of your honorable progenitors.
	And that you may be enabled to over come
every temptation of the enemy, and attain to the
blessings and reward your parentage and privi-
leges entitle you to, is my earnest desire in the
name of Jesus, Amen.
	Read at the Young People's Conjoint Meeting, 
17, Ward.


