NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. “Stonewall” Jackson is writing a
biography of her husband.
	A new club to be known as the Arts and
Letters club, is being formed in London.
	There are nearly 10,000 women nail-makers
in England, and 347 who are blacksmiths.
	Dr. Alice Stockham recently spent five days
at St. Petersburg, after which she visited
Count Tolstoi at his country estate.
	Lady Forester sends each week to the
factory girls of London upwards of 2,000
bunches of flowers, gathered by the servants on
her estates.
	Mrs. Ada C. Bittenbender, the well known
lawyer of Nebraska, will represent the de-
partment of legislation and petitions at the
National Convention.
	Harriet Beecher Stowe is an honorary mem-
ber of the Author’s Club of New York, and
the only woman writer connected with that
organization.
	No woman has all the rights she needs unti
the thought she cherishes and the conviction
that burns in her heart on any great public
question can be put into suffrage language.—
Rev. E. A. Horton.
	The University of Pennsylvania refuses to
be bulldozed by its ungallant students, and
will admit young women into its classes.  It
will be interesting now to see if the young
men carry out their threat and quit the Uni-
versity.  We guess they won’t.—Boston
Herald.
	Miss Ida M. Street is the name of the young
woman who has won the fellowship offered by
the Collegiate Alumnae for advanced study in
foreign universities by graduates of colleges in


the association likely to do original work in
science or literature.  "George Eliot as a Rep-
resentative of Her times" was the title of the 
thesis which won Miss Street the prize. 
	A work of more than ordinary interest will
be made of the material which Maud Howe
Elliot and her sister Florence Howe Hall, are
now shaping for "The Life of Laura Bridg-
man," famous deaf and blind mute.  The work
will contain an account of Miss Bridgman's
 education, by Dr. Samuel G. Howe, her in-
tellectual and spiritual development, and ex-
tracts from a series of journals and diaries
which she kept.  A number of unpublished
letters from Charles Dickens, Charles Sumner,
Longfellow, and others will be a feature.—Ex.

	Dr. Alice B. Stockham, who is now in
Europe, was the guest of the Baroness Gripen-
berg, in Finland recently, and was given a re-
ception by the Women's Club of Helsingfors.
She was the first American woman to be thus
honored.  Dr. Stockham had a very warm re-
ception.  When she left Helsingfors, the ladies
of the Women's Club came to see her off at
the railroad station, each armed with a bouquet,
which they pinned to Dr. Stockham's dress, till
she looked like a flower garden.  Dr. Stock-
ham is now in Paris, and is expected home
about Christmas.—Ex.


