taken from her by death, and the little Ann was thrown
 upon her own resources.  In 1823:  she went up to London
and found employment in a gentleman’s family where she
remained until 1834 when she was married to William W.
Clewley and moved to Leamington, Warwickshire.
	Afterwards herself and husband and also a niece of the
husband heard the Gospel preached and embraced it being
baptized by Elder Alfred Cordon in 1849; they started for
America the same year coming by the way of New Orleans,
arriving in St. Louis the following January.  They re-
mained there for three months and then went to Council
Bluffs and were counseled to settle there.
	Brother Clewley had been an invalid for several years,
and while he was at the Bluffs he was taken down with
inflammatory rheumatism, and during his illness Sister
Clewley was obliged to dispose of her clothing and other
things to procure necessaries.  These were the days
when the Saints were passing through the scenes of ad-
versity and many were compelled through force of circum-
stances to do the same as this good woman.  She nursed
her husband faithfully for which labor she was peculiarly
adapted, and she also labored hard to obtain means to
bring them to Utah.	
	They left Council Bluffs in 1852, Brother Clewley had
to be lifted into the wagon when they started on the
journey.  He died on the 12, of July, just as they arrived
at the Platte River, after ten months of severe suffering.
	Sister Clewley arrived in Salt Lake City the 2nd, of Oc-
tober 1852.
	When the writer became acquninted with the sister now
deceased she was the wife of Elder Phineas Richards, and
she was for many years an active and faithful teacher in the
Relief Society of the 14th ward, and prompt in all her
Society duties and also an excellent nurse among the sick
which calling she followed for years;  There are many who
will remember her speaking in the sisters meetings in the 14,
ward and also in little companies and parties to which she
was often invited especially of later years.  Her great age
and experience gave her wisdom in spiritual matters which
she never tired of imparting, or of bearing testimony to
the truth of the Gospel.  But our dear sister has gone to
her rest in peace and her reward is sure.  "Blessed are


the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth;  Yea,
saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors; and
their works do follow them."
										Com.


VALUABLE SOUVENIRS from Mormon
—Hill Genuine specimens of
Stone or Wood, 25c. Fine Photo. of Hill and spot
where the Golden Bible was found, 50c. Auto-
graph of Major Gilbert, who printed the first
Mormon Bible, 25c. Elegant Photograph of
Major Gilbert with Autograph Letter, 50c. ALL
of the above, $1. Guaranteed genuine. Send at
once. AGENTS WANTED.
	MORMON HILL EXCAVATION CO.,
				Main Office, Palmyra, N.Y.

UNION
PACIFIC
THE
OVERLAND
ROUTE

