AN EASTERN TRIP.

	Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor, Pres. of the Y. L. M. I.
A. and her daughter Miss Mae Taylor, left this
city September 3, to visit friends and relatives in
the East. The ladies went by way of Denver,
Kansas City, Memphis and Chattanouga, the
land of cotton and sugar cane, taking note of all
the beauties of the route and enjoying the rich
scenery, landing in Norfolk Va., at the St. James
Hotel, where they expected to take steamer for
New York. Norfolk is an old and celebrated
town and consequently possesses many historic
attractions for travelers.
	Mrs. Taylor and her daughter were interested
in the town and went to several of the historic
localities. One of the principal features to be
admired was St. Paul’s Church.  It was standing
in the time of the Revolution, and in the South
East corner under the eaves, the bullet is still re-
maining that was fired into it at that time; the
windows are “memorial,” of lovely stained
ground glass. The Church is built in the form of
a cross and in the upperend of the cross is an
ancient pipe organ, which must have been very
elegant, winding stairs on the outside of the
Church lead up to it. The building has four gal-
leries, one for the organ, and one at the foot of
the cross where the singers sit, and one in each
arm of the cross probably for seating the congre-
gation. It was covered with ivy outside every-
where except the windows and where memorial
stones were set in with inscriptions for the dead.
	One of the curiosities to be seen was the John
Hancock chair, donated by a member of the Han-
cock family and on the arm of it was a silverplate
relating the circumstance of its being the chair in
which the celebrated man John Hancock sat
when he signed the Declaration of Independence.
It is of the old style straight backed and leather
bottomed. The Church is kept in good repair
nd services still held in it regularly. Outside
were the most beautiful flowers one a specimen of
crepe myrtle, Mrs.Taylor and daughter describe
it as one of the most delicate and lovely things
they ever saw.
	When leaving the City they drove to the Navy
Yard which was very interesting; while there it
commenced raining, from there they drove to the
Old Dominion dock also a place of interest, and
took the steamer Roanoke for New York.
	The usual time for the ocean trip is from 22 to
26 hours, but such was the gale that it took 6o
minute—the gale blowing at the rate of 70 miles an
hour; the shutters were closed and hatchway
nailed down; the storm was the most severe that
had swept that coast since 1846. The ladies suf-
fered from sea-sickness very much, all on board
were sick even the colored employees accustomed
to these voyages were ill. Mrs. Taylor and
daughter however in the midst of this terrific
storm relied with implicit, faith upon the promises
made them previous to their departure that they
should go and return in safety.
	On arriving in New York after this unpleasant
voyage, they went over the Hoboken Ferry to
Jersey where they found their friends who had
been several times to the station to meet them.
	While in New York the ladies visited Centra
Park which they greatly admired especially the
Metropolitan, museum and to Miss Taylor all the
places were new, Old Trinity Church, Stock Ex-
change, Greenwood Cemetery and the Equitable
Building, where great pains was taken to show
them when they were informed they were from
Utah; the vaults, the safes, the private rooms,
and explained the signals etc. rent for these safes
run from $15 and 20, to 400 per month, the whole
building inside is finished in marble and iron, with


brass railings nine feet high, and is very elegant
throughout.
	Mrs. Taylor visited relatives in Bloomfield,
Mt. Claire, Newark N. J. and also the house where
her husband’s mother was born. In Central New
York, Rochester Cincinnatus and other places,
she also visited Palmyra where the hill Cumorah
is situated and though there was nothing in par-
ticular to mark the sacred place gathered some of
the native wild-flowers and pressed them as a re-
membrance. They also visited Niagara Falls and
had a most delightful day in viewing this magnifi-
cent natural curosity. Mrs. Taylor and daughter
returned home in excellent health and spirits hav-
ing richly enjoyed the journey including of course
the storm on the ocean.


