	An instance of this kind occurred some time
[Second Column]
since. It was at the Assembly Hall on the
day of Judge Elias Smith's funeral.
	At that time a company of school teachers
were traveling through to California, and see-
ing the people gathering to this house they
came in, (that is a few of them), and after
taking seats the one who sat next to me made
some inquiry, and seeing the congregation had
not yet assembled we had a little chat.  In
reply to my question she told me they had just
arrived and expected to leave the next day,
also saying they were from Kentucky and New
Jersey. Her first question was  "What is the
Beehive emblematic of, which is painted on
the wall above the organ."  I told her it was
emblematic of us as a people. We belong to
the working class. She thought it a good
emblem; then asked the name of the President,
after telling her, she asked if he was on the
stand. 
	I told her the President of the Stake was
there, but not the President of the Church.
She wished to know if those were officers seated
there. I replied there were some of the Twelve
Apostles, Bishops and also Seventies, saying
this Church is organized according to the
ancient pattern of Jesus and His Apostles. She
asked quickly, "where do you get seventies."
I replied in the New Testament.
	No not in the Testament she replied I have
read the Testament and there is nothing of
seventies in it. I thought I could find it, but
could not tell the chapter and verse, accord-
ingly did not contradict her but let the subject
drop.
	After returning home I took the book to
search for Seventies. I found it in Luke 10
Ch. 1 vs. it reads: "After these things the Lord
sent forth other Seventy also, and sent them
two and two before His face into every city,
and place, whither He Himself would come."
And in the 17, vs. we read: "And the Seventy
returned with joy, saying Lord, even the devils
are subject to us through Thy name.
	A feeling of regret came over me as I called
to mind the bright, intelligent face of the
young lady who was so positive that I was mis-
taken. I was sorry from my heart that I
could not tell her the chapter and verse, be-
cause from her appearance she seemed to
possess honesty of soul and sincerity of heart.
But a little self conceit caused her to be too
fast in her decision of us as a people. I re-
membered that forty-eight years ago I was in
that position myself, and this honesty of soul
and sincerity combined helped me to see the
gospel as taught by the Saviour of the world.
At that time I could see that our minister was
too fast when he only used part of St. Paul's
words to convince me that I was wrong. 
	He said you must remember "Whether
there be prophecies they shall fail, and tongues
shall cease, leaving out the next line or clause
of the verse, (and knowledge shall vanish
away). Would he acknowledge this? oh no!
knowledge was increasing. So it seems in
temporal affairs; but what of the spiritual; I
leave this for yourselves to judge.
	I shall never forget how thankful I was to
see my mistake; and have always been thank-
ful that the gospel has been restored exactly as
the Saviour taught it when He was here;
knowing we could not be prepared to meet
Him under any other circumstances, or
another doctrine to that which He gave to the
human family. My Sabbath school lesson came
forcibly to my mind, we find in Mathew 7, Ch.
[Third Column]
21, vs. it is written, "Not every one that saith
Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of
heaven; but he that doeth the will of My
Father which is in heaven." 22, vs. "Many will
say to Me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we
not prophesied in Thy name? and in Thy name
have cast out devils? and in Thy name done
many wonderful works?" 23, vs. reads "And
then I will profess unto them, I never knew
you, depart from Me ye that work iniquity.
	This class of people I think are too fast.
They lean too much upon their own strength
and the wisdom called worldly wisdom. A
humble and a contrite spirit, putting our trust
in God which we can do when we keep His
commandments, will bring us His blessing.
	We have learned this lesson many times.
One time in particular was, when Johnson's
army came to destroy us as a people, root and
branch. Was there ever a time when we were
more earnest and sincere in calling upon God
our Father for wisdom, and the intelligence we
were then in need of? Did we get it? Yes the
army was defeated without one drop of blood-
shed.
	In this we rejoiced; but how did they feel?
They were angry; and felt that they could
have eaten us without a grain of salt. So we
were told. But our Father saved us while they
were called home and the privilege (if we may
say so) to shed blood to their hearts content.
Again our Saviour's words were fulfilled when
He said: "In the world ye shall have tribula-
tion but in Me ye shall have joy." Can any
one who lived in this valley at that time, be
doubtful, lacking faith in God to-day? No not
unless they forget God; If so, they should call
to mind that He never forgets any only those
who forget Him.
						M. E. KIMBALL.
	Nov. 11, 1889.


