MILLARD CO. W. S. A.

	A meeting of the Millard Co. W. S. A. was
held at Scipio Oct. 22.  Mrs. M. A. Y. Green-
halgh presiding.  The meeting opened by the
choir singing one of "Freedom's Songs."
Prayer was offered by Mr. W. Hatch.
	The President stated the object of the meet-
ing and this being the first meeting in Scipio
the Constitution was read, and roll of members
called.
	The President gave an account of the
commencement of the movement, and
of the many noble men and women
who had taken part in it, and of the
first convention held at Seneca Falls N. Y.
June 1848, which was quickly followed by
others to which were sent reporters from many
of the principal newspapers, and were attended
by statesmen, and senators from all parts of
the United States.  The meeting was then
addressed by Thos. Memmott, Mrs. E. Yates,
Wm.  Hatch, Jesse B. Martin and Mrs.
Thompson.
	The meeting was well attended and all the
speakers expressed themselves in favor of
Woman's Freedom and her right to the
Suffrage, and pledged themselves to assist to
obtain that right by every legitimate means.
Benediction by Fred K. Wasden.
	Two meetings of the Millard Co. W. S. A.
were held at Kanosh Oct. 31.  Mrs. M. A. Y.
Greenhalgh presiding.
	The first meeting was held at 2 p. m., and
at the close of that meeting the people re-
quested the President to remain and hold a
second meeting at 7 p.m. which was like the
first, numerously attended.  During the two
meetings the choir sang six of the songs of
"Freedom" in a lively and spirited manner,
which added greatly to the enthusiasm of the
meetings.  Prayer was offered at 2 p. m. by
C. Hall.  The president addressed the meeting
giving an account of the origin and progress
of the Woman's Suffrage movement and the
necessity for women to have the right to vote,
and many reasons why they should.  Addresses
were then given by Jesse Hopkinson, B.


Watts, C. Hall, E. F. Christenson, and Wm.
Prows Esq. Benediction by C. F. Christenson.
	The evening meeting was opened by singing,
and prayer was offered by Wm. Prows Esq.
The President gave an account of her travels
in the East, and of the way women were
treated in those lands and their improved con-
dition at the present time, and of the better
laws now in force, for the protection of women,
in Europe.
	The other speakers were C. Bement, J.
Gardener, Q. Abrahams, J. Dameron, J,
Prows.  Mrs. Adelia Kimball in a short ad-
dress encouraged all to join the association
and make themselves conversant with politics
so that when the time came that they had the
right to vote, they would know how to use
the privilege judiciously.  At the close of the
meeting the president was cordially invited to
visit Kanosh again at an early day, and give
them some account of her travels, in the
Orient, and other lands, which she consented
to do, she advised the young people to organise
a literary society, and introduce civil govern-
ment, and home politics among their other
studies, offering them any assistance she was
able to give.  The meeting closed with prayer
by Jesse Hopkinson.
