MORMON DOCTRINE AND THE COURT.

	The Court in session in this City has for the
past two or three weeks given great attention to
the subject of qualifications for citizenship; and
with this one simple fact, they have brought in
almost every principle of the Church, and one
would think instead of a case of naturalization
only,that the whole Church was on trial before His
Honor Judge Anderson. Books and Journals'
daily papers, etc., were ransacked to prove the
falsity of the position and attitude of this humble
people. It would be ridiculous and laughable if
it were not so serious, to see and hear the
harangues and disputations going on during the
proceedings of the case. Surely the Judges,
lawyers and marshals with their clerks will soon
attain a great degree of perfection in “Mormon’,
doctrine, if they will only turn it to good account;
they may be glad at some future time to accept
some of the principles they so strongly condemn.
	It seems almost impossible that men of intelli-
gence and ability should show so much an-
tagonism to a peaceful, industrious and unassum-
ing people.
	How it can be possible to go to such extremes
and with such venom as has been manifested by
the opposition, one who is in his sober senses can
scarcely comprehend. To cap the climax send
a man up for contempt because he rufuses to
answer a question that has “nothing to do with the
case,” whatever,and treat him as a criminal,seems
this incompatible with any precedent heretofore
established even against “Mormons.” It was
plain enough to every one of ordinary intelligence
that it was intended to make an example of
Elder Penrose, and besides, it was putting him
where he could not give his views through the
most popular medium, that of the press. To im-
prison a man for not answering an irrelevant ques-
tion upon a matter for which he had already re-
ceived the pardon of His Excellency the Presi-
dent, of the United States will scarcely be con-
sidered a wise thing to do even by the honorable
men,who belong to the opposing party.
	When the case closed Elder Penrose was re-
leased by the order of Judge Anderson notwith-
standing there were those so full of hatred and
spite they would have stretched a point or two or
more to have kept him longer in durance vile.
	During this case of rights of citizenship the
witnesses have been catechized as though they
were all hereties, and were on trial for their life.
No one can help seeing, if they read all the evi-
dence and speeches etc. but that “Mormonism”
can well afford to be put on trial on its merits.
	“There are more in things heaven and earth than
are dreamt of in our philosophy.”  So with
Mormonism it contains so much: they have not
yet compassed the earth, and the heavens they
fortunately cannot.


[Column 1]
		      SEVENTY-ONE.
	On Wednesday evening Novenber, 20th, a
select party of friends of Mrs. M. Isabella Horne,
met by invitation at the residence of her daughter
Mrs. Clara E. James, to offer their congraulations
and celebrate with appropriate festivities the
birthday anniversary of this honored lady.
	The weather being unfavorable many were
hindered from coming, but there was a goodly
company assembled in Mrs. James handsome
parlors, and Mrs. Horne’s daughters (there were
four of them present) know how to entertain socially
so as to make every one feel at ease.
	President Wilford Woodruff and President Geo.
Q. Cannon were present, Bishop Geo. H. Taylor,
David James Esq., and other gentlemen besides
a large number of ladies. Most of the evening
was devoted to social conversation, but about nine
or half past nine, the attention of the guests was
called and Mrs. Lula Greene Richards read an
original poem, which we give below.

