I OFTEN WONDER WHY 'TIS SO

	Some find work where some find rest,
		And so the weary world goes on;
	I sometimes wonder which is best;
		The answer comes when life is gone.

	Some eyes sleep when some eyes wake,
		And so the dreary night-hours go;
	Some hearts beat when some hearts break;
		I often wonder why 'tis so.

	Some wills faint where some wills fight,
		Some love the tent, and some the field,
	I often wonder who are right—
		The ones who strive, or those who yield?

	Some hands fold where other hands
		Are lifted bravely in the strife;
	And so thro' ages and thro' lands
		Move on the two extremes of life.

	Some feet halt when some feet tread,
		In tireless march, a thorny way;
	Some struggle on where some have fled;
		Some seek when others shun the fray.


Some swords rust where others clash,
	Some fall back where some move on,
Some flags furl where others flash
	Until the battle has been won.

Some sleep on while others keep
	The vigils of the true and brave:
They will not rest till roses creep
	Around their name above a grave.
								A. J. R.


[Column 1]
	LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.
BY M. J. TANNER.
			[Continued.]
	Trout Lake, N.Y. Wednesday, June 17, 1885.
Aurilla and I go strawberrying this morning.
One of the hired men is going up in the woods
with the truck, (the running gears of the
wagon coupled long for hauling logs,) and we
ride with him as far as Caleb's home. Caleb
lives on the farm where my husband's grand-
mother used to live. The place looks dilapi-
dated and it is very hilly and rocky all around.
We go in the house awhile and call on his wife.
They have some fine looking children but his
wife looks over-worked and careworn.  Her
cheek has lost its rose, and her form its round-
ness, and the only prospect I see before her to
bring encouragement is in her children.  She
strives as many a noble woman has striven,
through poverty and toil, to raise them the
best her circumstances will admit.  She is
cheerful, and gives us a pleasant welcome.  We
go over to the "foller," a piece of land where
the trees have been cut and the stumps not yet
cleared out.  It is used for meadow but it
would be impossible to use machinery to cut
the hay on account of the rocks, hills and
stumps.  I have been quite anticipating my
strawberry trip. They tell me that the wild
strawberries are much finer flavored than the
cultivated ones, and the thought of searching
among the grass and flowers for the luscious
fruit carries me back to my childhood days
once more.  After searching awhile we find a
few small berries not much larger than a good
sized pea.  I pass them by with disdain, but
finally Aurilla says she thinks we will not find
any better ones and we commence picking, the
largest of course always finding the way to my
mouth.  The sun is very hot, but a cool breeze
finds us now and then.  Aurilla and I get
separated. Sometimes I look for her and find
the object of my scrutiny but a big black
stump; for the "foller" has been burnt over to
get rid of the brush and debris of the fallen
trees; and sometimes when I think I see a
stump in the distance it moves and I know it
is her. *	    *
	We spend the afternoon with Caleb and his
family and walk home, about a mile.  The road
is through the woods which are filled with
blossoms, and the air is sweet with their per-
fume.  Blackberries, raspberries, and thimble-
berries are putting forth their blossoms with
promise of an abundant harvest.	*	*	
	Aurilla makes a strawberry-shortcake for
supper and it certainly is delicious.  After
supper we go for a row on the lake, Bertha
and Eppie and I, Bertha is Becky Ann's thir-
teen year old daughter an over-grown girl with
bright black eyes and a promise of something
better than life at present affords for her.
Eppie a boy of about eighteen is one of David's
hired hands.  He has a fine intelligent face,
and as we float out on the glossy water they
sing together, and as their voices mingle in the
soft twilight, I weave a little idyl for their 
future.  We go to the fartherest end of the lake
which is about two miles, around twin islands,
and back by echo point, where they send their
voices out in shouts and laughter, to be taken
up and repeated again and again.  The bank
of the lake opposite Mr. Putney's is lined with
[Column 2]
woods and is pointed out to me as lovely picnic
grounds.  I can readily believe it, and think I
would like to go over there some day.  We
gather a few yellow water-lilies, the white ones
are not in bloom yet.  As we land on the bank 
we promise ourselves another row.
	Thursday, June 18.  Caleb gets a horse and
buggy, and takes me out to see the country.
We visit the cemetery and walk about
among the graves of a bygone generation.  The
roses are in bloom and earth looks very
pleasant, just as it looked to them, perhaps fifty
or a hundred years ago.  I see the names of
many people that I have heard mother Tanner
talk about, and write them down in my journal.
Here lies Father Tanner’s wife who died before
mother married him, and I write down the
epitaph from her tomb stone.  After leaving
the cemetery we drive along the road past
lovely cottages and pleasant farmhouses, with
beautiful waters of Lake George ever in view,
dotted here and there with green islands; three
hundred and sixty-five, they tell me, just cor-
responding with the days of the year.  We stop
at Artemus Tanner's, a cousin of my husband,
where Caleb introduces me as his cousin's wife
from Utah.  Artemus has a nice family con-
sisting of his wife, two daughters and a grand-
daughter. They invite me to stay and Caleb
leaves me here where I spend a pleasant even-
ing.
	Friday June, 19.  Weather pleasant, cool in
the morning but quite warm in the afternoon.
It looks like some of our canyon country.
Large mountains in the distance and hills and
trees all around.  After tea Mrs. Tanner goes
with me for a walk on the hill. The black
berries are not ripe yet and she fears they will
be small on account of the dry weather, they
have not as much rain as usual this summer.
We have a lovely view of the Lake and sur-
rounding country.  We pick a few juniper
berries for it grows all over the hill and I am
told is a great nuisance in this part of the
country.  It is a low sprangly bush and looks
some like our dwarf cedar.  We gather winter-
green which grows here in profusion.
	Bolton, Saturday, June 20. * *   Artemus
went to Glen's Falls yesterday but is at home
today, and has promised to give me some items
of family history.  Mrs. T. is a pleasant in-
telligent woman and we are having a nice
visit.  I have been writing home, and learning 
some knitting patterns, Mrs. T. has a knit quilt 
which she put in the fair. * *
	Sunday, June 21. Mrs. T. who is a Baptist 
went to church and Artemus sat down to give
me the long promised family history or rather
such records as he had of it, which I carefully 
note down for further use.  After dinner we
go for a ride and call on Mr. Perkins a cousin
of the family, Mr. Perkins is not in but Mrs.
Fuller, the lady of the house, who is a cousin,
entertains us, and I get a few geneologies from
her.  Mrs. Tanner, Mrs. Fuller and I go down
to the lake for a walk.  We have a fine view,
and I try to find a few pebbles or shells to
carry home, but find little worth notice.  After
supper Mr. T. takes me to Mr. Putney's where
they all welcome me warmly.


