HEPHZIBAH.
					XII.

		Faith that alone withstands the heaving tide
			Of fond emotions in the human heart,
		Can sacrifice ambition, vanquish pride,
			And conquer love; must be of heav'n a part.

	How true it is that “man proposes but God
disposes,” and we in our own hearts sometimes
decide upon a course of life entirely different
to that which circumstances afterwards as it
were compels us to follow. Many young,
lovers have fondly dreamed of a blissful future,
but have been cutoff from its fulfillment in
one way or another, just when the charmed
cup of happiness seemed within their grasp.
Occasionally such events are the result of the
obstinacy or pride of one or the other; there
are also many other causes; but more often
perhaps it is on account of a distinctive dif-
ference in the position in society or in the
religious views. It is always better and safer
so far as possible to associate with those who
are of the same faith; it is true that in many
instances differences may spring up after
marriage, and that may be unavoidable, but
true happiness cannot exist where vital prin-
ciples are in question and opposing views en-
tertained. Many young people have separated
as these two did and looking at the matter,
seriously have taken up the duties of life, and
with the devotion that characterizes a genuine
faith, have been all the nobler because of the
self-sacrifice.


[Column 1]
	﻿In some instances we speak of these things
as fate and also as a dispensation of Providence,
but in this case as in some others of which
we have known the woman never forgot
in after years the sacrifice she made in
giving up this young lover of hers, who had
set her heart all aflame; but she could not
and would not deceive herself into the belief
that man’s love could compensate for that joy
she felt in her new found love of truth—and tho’
it was a hard struggle yet she conquered—that
her cousin’s intercession made it all the
harder for her, it is scarcely necessary to say.
Hettie’s badinage about young Mr. W. the
one just converted weighed nothing with
Lucy, her religion was first, and she avowed
her indifference to marriage in the strongest
terms. It was true however that the young
man referred to, was looked upon even by
the newly converted “Mormon” girls in the
village as a most desirable and agreeable com-
panion, and they liked to hear him in his elo-
quent though humble manner bear his testi-
mony, to the Gospel he had embraced.
	It was true that Mrs. Hathaway had sent
for Hepsie and also her married daughter Mrs.
Severance to come home and hear the Elders
preach. So sure was she that they would be
impressed, thst she wrote in the most positive
way;  and as they knew nothing of the
doctrines, or principles, they were almost as
eager to hear, as Mrs. H. was to have them.
They made the journey in their own carriage
instead of the stage, and only arrived in time
to get a warm supper, (for the weather was
cold) and attend the evening meeting which
was held in the district schoolhouse.
	Hepsie was overjoyed to be at home for a
short time, and on meeting her mother
noticed immediately the change in her appear-
ance, and childlike exclaimed, “O, mother
how beautiful your eyes are to night, how
they sparkle; and you seem ever so much
younger, what has happened.
	“My dear little girl this is what has happened
I have found the true Gospel, that the Savior and
his Apostles taught, and it has given me great
joy, and I have been baptized for the remission
of my sins, and have had hands laid upon my
head for the reception of the Holy Ghost and I
feel so happy, and I want you and Hannah, and
all my children and friends, to feel as I do
and rejoice with me. To night you will hear
the Elders preach from the Bible and not
spiritualize its sayings as the aectarian world
do, and their Priests and ministers,”
	“But” said Mrs. Severance “I have heard
that the “Mormons” have another Bible, and
that they believe its teachings as implicitly as
we do the Sacred Scriptures, and that it is a
golden bible, and that Joseph Smith pre-
tended to dig it up out of a hill in the State of
New York, and to translate it himself, tho’ he
was only an ignorant, uncultivated and un-
couth young man. He pretends God spoke to
Him and that He heard his voice.”
	“Well that is all true, it is not a pretense;
but you shall hear for yourself this very night,
and you will be convinced by the testimony
of truth, as I have been, that this new religion
is not a delusion, but the Everlasting Gospel;
and that the Elders who proclaim it are not
deceivers; but every man and every woman is
at liberty to judge of the truths proclaimed
whether they be of man, or from God.
	At this point Mrs. Severance spoke “mother
you know how sure you were years ago, that
you had experienced a real change of heart;
and your conversion was looked upon by our
minister as quite an event because of your pro-
nounced opinions upon all religious subjects,
and especially upon the old prophets, I was
only a girl then, about as old as Hepsie per-
haps, but I remember very well hearing good
old M. Ridelle, who used to change pulpits
with Mr.Spooner say, to Mrs. Spooner one night

[Column 2]
“Mrs. Hathaway a Congregationalist you sur-
prise me!” Mrs. Hathaway replied very quietly
that she had always felt sure that the
Scriptures admitted of no private interpreta-
tion, and now she had other authority than
her own assertion.
	“What other authority?’' inquired Mrs. S.
“the authority of the Elders who have been
sent out to preach repentance and baptism, and
other points of doctrine. But I want you to
hear for yourselves.”
	Hepsie was half-bewildered, she was weary
with the journey and annoyed with Mrs. S.
whom she thought disrespectful to her mother,
and she wanted to remain at home, her but
mother would not consent to it, and so they
all went on that memorable evening and heard
the Elders preach. This was almost six weeks
after the first baptisms had been performed and
there was considerable excitement over the
affair in this quiet old town. Uncle Rufus
still continued to befriend the Elders and was
very hospitable in entertaining them, but he
showed no signs of being converted. Uncle
Rufus' was quite a character in his way and
was never afraid to speak his mind either
upon religion, or politics; his wife was very
pious quite the opposite, and as a natural con-
sequence they were not one; in fact all the
villagers knew that Aunt Lydia “kept herself
to herself,” that is to say she occupied her own
apartments and Uncle Rufus did as he pleased
with the rest of the house; but when it come
to Mormon Elders the good wife objected,
though naturally enough Rufus carried the
day and as the house was a spacious one she
neither heard or saw them; as she had em-
phatically declared that she “could not endure
the sight of men, who went about sponging off
hard-working people, it was against her prin-
ciples, she was brought up to work for her
living.”
	But we must go back to the “Mormon”
meeting, it opened with the hymn.
		“Glorious things of thee are spoken
		Zion city of our God!
		He whose word cannot be broken,
		Chose thee for His own abode.”
	Hepsie was delighted with the singing it was
so lively she thought, and so different from
that she had been accustomed to hear in the
Churches, for in those days in the old towns in
New England, the tunes were rather common-
place and the choir girls (and Hepsie was one
of them) often wearied of the monotonous old
Psalm tunes with their long metres, and the
reader must remember that at that period the
usual method of “pitching a tune,” was with
“a tuning fork.'
	After the singing prayer was offered, and
that too was entirely different from the prayers
Hepsie had heard either in the Churches or at
the parsonage of the Rev. Erasmus Grovsenor.
The preaching was upon the first principles of
the Gospel, and references were made to the
New Testament almost exclusively, Hepsie was
not so attentive as she ought to have been, she
was excited, and nervous, and it was so new
and strange; she watched the countenances of
the speakers, and the effect of the discourse
upon her mother who seemed so intensely
exercised that it was apparent to all with
whom she associated.
	After the meeting closed the people crowded
around making inquiries and some applying
for baptism and Mrs. H. was greatly disap-
pointed when Mr. S. and wife both protested
that they were not in the least impressed and
did not intend to spend their time to hear such
foolishness; in vain Mrs. H. entreated them to
stay and talk to the Elders, or even listen to her;
no amount of persuasion would induce him
ever to sit and hear such talk again, said Mr.
S. and what he said his dutiful wife Hannah
acquiesced in. Mrs. H. saw it was useless to

[Column 3]
persuade though she could not help manifesting
her disappointment, but she thought then for
hope was buoyant in her breast, that in time
they would be convinced that she was right.
She had been such a wise mother and her
children looked up to her with great rever-
ence, indeed she had actually supplied the
father’s place so far as that is possible. “My
boys will believe as I do I am sure they will;”
she said with a great degree of confidence,
after they had returned from the meeting,
and were talking with each other around the
fire.
	The room where they were seated was long
and low—with oak-paneling and very little
that was bright in it, except as the fitful blaze
of the pine-knots in the wide fire place re-
flected on the walls and old-fashioned furniture.
There were tall brass andirons and they shone
brightly and the hearthstone was a brilliant
red, there was no carpet, a painted floor and
rugs laid down for warmth, as it was winter-
time;— Hepsie glanced around as if she
expected to see a change in the room,
but she only observed the shadows and glim-
mers from the fire-light and remarked to her
mother, “how weird everything looks in this
room, or is it because I have just come home,
and it is strange after being away so long.”
	“It is only your childish fancy; we thought
you would like the fire of pine knots and so
we piled it up high to-night to gratify you and
would not light either lamps or candles, know-
ing your love of shadows.”
	The great clock that stood in the corner
struck the midnight hour before Hepsie had
retired, or would confess to weariness so much
did she enjoy the play of the fire light and
the pictures she saw in the burning coals.
Her mother too was a fair picture to gaze upon
for Hepsie was beginning to comprehend true
womanliness. She remembered years after the
very dress she wore and how she admired for
almost the first time in her life,her magnificent
figure and bearing. She began to see now how
it was that Mrs. Hathaway had been disliked
by her husband’s family; it was envy; she
thought that night she had never looked upon
her like before. Her forehead was high and
her wavy hair clustered round it gracefully,
her mouth was perfect, in shape and outline,
lips cherry, and her eyes were heaven’s own
blue; around her neck which was well propor-
tioned she wore a string of amber beads, and
over her shoulders a heavily embroidered
crape shawl; her dress was a soft grey pongee
and as Hepsie looked intently into her mother’s
wonderfully expressive eyes, she thought, as
she many times thought afterwards. “Would
I could paint her portrait, and write her life
history.”
	Such women were those who knew the sound
of the Gospel when it was first preached in
their hearing: they needed no testimony be-
yond their own conscience and convictions, but
time would fail to tell the lives of women like
this one, their record is laid up in the archives
of the angels, and the world knows them not.


