EDITORIAL NOTES.
	In the “In Memoriam" of Mrs. George Dun-
ford published in our last issue, it was stated that
she came to the valley in 1868, it should have been
1867.
	The Gilmore chorus of four hundred under the
tutelage of Br. E. Stephens have formed an or-
ganization for training in music and will no doubt
accomplish a good work and be prepared for giv-
ing concerts and Oratorio, singing, etc. We
would rejoice to see Salt Lake City make rapid
progress in the development of music which is
undoubtedly, we think, the most refining and soul-
stirring of all arts, or professions.
	The Conference of the Relief Society of the
Salt Lake Stake will be held in the 14th Ward
Assembly Hall in this City on Thursday Decem-
ber 19th meetings commencing at 10, a. m. and
2, p. m. as usual. A representation from each
branch of the Relief Society is earnestly desired,
and it is sincerely hoped there will be a large
attendance of the members, as this is a time when
union and a faithful discharge of duty on the
part of each individual member seems impera-
tive. Bishops and other brethren, are most
cordially invited to attend the Conference as
also all interested in this benevolent organi-
zation.


[Column 1]﻿
		THORNS AND ROSES.
	Nature teaches that we cannot find a calm un-
troubled stream of light and life.
	Winter comes with icy sceptre held on high
and when his breath is felt the world’s wild pulses
cease to beat and all her gladsome songs are
hushed; but Summer follows with her hand of
warmth and loosens all his frigid chains.
	Night comes, and wraps his sombre mantle
round the earth—mantles, dark, and cold, and
chill but day light drives night shades away.
	The storm-king often beats down sorrow and
dismay, but sunshine always follows rain.
	Through all, the biting cold, the genial warmth,
the dark and light, the storm and calm, we tread
life’s hill-side path, yet never tread that path
alone. There are many pilgrims ever near, and
our  walks must temper theirs for good or ill.
Our tracks we leave and round them thorns or
roses fall—a portion from the harvest of our lives.
This is the largess we are bound to give to mother-
earth, to fellow-man.
	We meet a stranger sad and wan, we pass him
on our way; and does the look we give bring
smiles upon the troubled face, or does the frown
but darker grow? Did we drop roses in his path,or
was it but a thorn?
	A friend is near, one delicate and frail; we love
that friend, but watching, see her step aside.
Wrong thoughts she tells to us, and yet we do not
chide, but let it pass lest we should wound her
tender, loving heart, or lose the kind regard we
prize, Is that the strongest proof of friendship’s
[Column 2]
worth, and have we warm roses for her head, or
for that dear one wreaths of thorns?
	Another friend now comes to us in noble manly
pride. Temptation lures him, he loves the wine-
cup’s ruddy glow, but friends can trust such
strength as his; a fair hand takes the cup he loves
and holds it to his lips. ‘Tis given with a smile
but does it hold sweet flowers for the garlands of
his life and they hide no stinging thorns?
	Love comes to woo: we see him there and give
kind welcome by some pretty act. We watch the
pleadings of his face, and hear his ardent voice;
caress the true and trusting heart; accept the
treasures it doth bring, then cast them all away.
	What cruel work our hands have done—heart
strings are rent apart; wounds are bleeding where
we thrust the cruel thorns; and would we hide
the wrong we’ve done, hide that breaking heart
beneath white roses,they are stained, their beauty
turns to blight.
	At “home sweet home,” that dearest spot on
earth, is mother’s gentle, precious form. Her face
is ever near, and have we looked to see if time
were tracing there the deep hard lines of care, or
if the smiles of peace were wreathing halo's soft,
serene and fairer than the flesh of youth?
	Whence came the hard lines on that loving face?
Have our lives but twined round her’s a network
all of thorns? Whence came the peace the
reverential light? Oh! it rejects the love that
roses breathe, the rich perfume of garlands fair
that we hsve woven round that mother’s life.
	And father, must he toil and spend his strength
to bring the wealth that we would have? and is it
more, much more than we would need if we could
feel the achings of his careworn mind? Do soft
hands sometimes touch his throbbing brow and
wipe the sweats away! Are kisses printed there
among the furrowed lines? Is he entwined with
love’s sweet gifts? Do we scatter thorns,or roses
for his tired blistered feet to tread upon?
	Brothers, sisters God has given us, the good
the beautiful and true. 'Tis they who share the
joys the cares, triumphs and failures which are
ours. Sometimes those loved are called to
heaven’s bright realms. We stand beside the dead
to say a long good-night, a last farewell. In fond
tones now we breathe to them the fairest words
that tongue hath ever told—I love you, oh! I love
you, dear—and are we heard? Can dead ears
hear, cold lips feel affection's kiss, the marble
brow and stiffened hand our warm caress?
	Why gather roses for them now when we have
left that task so long undone?
	Why pluck rough thorns from off the grave
where silent ashes sleep?—the living loved! O
let us give them now the treasures of our hearts
before it is too late!
	Let flowers be the gifts we bring for strangers
and for friends. Flowers for the ones beloved while
they are here to know the worth and beauty of the
treasures that we give.
	And let us never scatter cruel, poisoned thorns
where one can feel their sting.
	In the school-room here where angels come to
mark the records, not of words and acts alone, but
of the silent heart thoughts too, is there a place
more mete than this wherein to learn these lessons
for the soul?
	We are weaving now, a chaplet fair for teachers
and for friends—Schoolmates, whose hands will
place the roses there, and whose the cruel thorns!
								ARETTA.	
	Written for an exercise in General Theology,
L. D. S. College, Salt Lake City, Nov. 15, 1889.


[column 1]
AN ADDRESS.
