WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		﻿A MASS MEETING.
   A mass meeting of the women of Utah Co.
assembled for  the purpose  of organizing  a
Woman  Suffrage  Association  on Wednesday
Oct. 23 at  the  meeting  house  in  Provo  at
half  past  10 a.  m.  Mrs.  Mary John called
the attention of the assembly and stated the
object of the meeting. Mrs. E. B.  Wells of
Salt Lake City was elected  Chairman  of the
meeting   and   Mrs.   Susa   Young  Gates
Secretary.
   The meeting opened with the song "AMERICA"
and  prayer was offered by  the chaplain  Mrs.
Marilla M. Daniels
   The Secretary read  the Call  as published
in     the    Utah    Enquirer    which      was
signed by Mrs.  Mary  John  and  Mrs Marilla
M.  Daniels.   The Chairman inquired  what
was the pleasure of the meeting; and  was re-
sponded to  that nominations for officers were
in order: most of the nominations were made
from the body of the house and were put  in
their regular order by the Chairman and voted
upon.
   The officers  are  as follows President Mrs.
Mary Jane Tanner, 1st Vice President Mrs.
Electa Bullock, 2nd Vice President Deborah
Billings 3rd  Vice  President Mrs. Joanna Pat-
ten, Secretary Mrs. Susa Young  Gates,  Cor.
Sec. Mrs.  Adelaide G. Snow,  Treasurer Mrs.
Jane  P.  Jones.   Chairman  Executive  com-
mittee,  Mrs Caroline B. Pratt members Ex.
Com.  Mrs. Isabelle Thurman, Mrs. Alice M.
Wilkin, Mrs. Rebecca H. Doolan, Mrs. Teenie
Smoot Taylor,  Mrs.  Lizzie L. Gillespie,  Mrs.
Sarah  E.  Cluff,  Miss  Lizzie  Loveless,  Miss
Delia   Maeser.   Vice Presidents for the larger
towns were appointed  as follows,  Mrs.  Sarah
Ann Boyer,  Springville,  Mrs.  Agnes  Lewis,
Spanish Fork, Mrs. Millie Stark, Payson, Mrs.
Fannie Stewart, Pleasant Grove,  Mrs. Minnie
P. Grant, American Fork.
    The Secretary read the  Constitution  of  the
National  W. S. A. and a  vote was called  and
the  articles adopted.
    The   Secretary  read   the  By   Laws  and
Regulations of  the U. W. S. A. as amended
which were unanimously adopted.
    Mrs. Tanner  the newly elected  President
read a very able and interesting address which
we  give in full.
   Mrs. Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen:  It
is with much diffidence  that I stand  before
you on this occasion.  It  is new work for me

[Column 2]
to  speak in a political capacity, and, as  none
of us have made politics a study, I  think  I
shall be readily excused  if I show myself in-
capable of entertaining you with  a  learned
exposition on matters pertaining  to suffrage.
The object of our meeting  is to organize an
association and to  agitate  the question  of
woman  suffrage.   While  we  may  not  at
present gain any material advantage from this
movement,  we desire  to give the  weight of
our labors toward strengthening the hands of
those, who have so  long and valiantly fought
the good fight in behalf of the women of this
nation.   That many improvements have been
made  in  the general condition  of  women
during the  latter part of the present century,
no reading  or  thinking person can reasonably
deny.   That much yet remains to be done and
that much can certainly be done by her own
efforts  for her enfranchisement is evident to
all.   A band  of  noble  women  have  been
working for years  to raise  her to a more ex-
alted standard.  To  cultivate  her ideas  and
give her aspirations, a securer basis to work
from.   How much sorrow and wretchedness
might be averted if woman could understand
her own  true value in the commonwealth of
the nation.   When she asserts her rights and
man recognizes them she will cease to become
his plaything: a  shuttlecock for  his amuse-
ment,  fit only to pander to his vanity or his
vices.   That she was created for a companion
and help-meet to man, no  one will attempt to
deny.   That her weakness makes her depend-
ent  on  him to a certain degree  is evident.
That man's strength constitutes  his weakness
and he is  to a certain  degree  dependent on
her is  quite as evident.  When we admit that
neither is capable of independent action,  that
wealth,  happiness   and  station   in    society
connects them indissolubly,  then should we not
admit that politically and socially they should
be  equal.   If one is  stronger than  another,
then let the stronger carry the heavier burden.
It  is  so in the economy  of nature.   All men
are  not  equal in strength, education or intel-
ligence,  but  we would not infer  that  their
rights  or  liberty of action, were not equal or
that their political rights should  be curtailed.
That  women might  not use the ballot intelli-
gently we will not deny.   Neither does man in
all cases.   That  women  are  not  posted  on
political matters is a question  of no moment.
All  men  are not sufficiently acquainted with
matters of vital interest to the country.  They
are sometimes easily  enlightened by the ju-
dicious use of money or whisky.  For sake of
argument we might say that perhaps women
might be as easily instructed; but for the sake
of   woman  we  would  scorn   the  assertion.
   While reflecting on  these things my mind
reverts to Utah in her infancy.   It is less than
half a century since she was born as an  inte-
gral part of the Union.   My feet were among
the first  to tread the barren land of her deso-
lation.   Not a field under cultivation;  uot a
fence nor a cabin met  the eyes, all was barren
and  desolate;  solitude  and silence reigned
supreme.   A few small streams of water made
their  passage  through  the mountain  gorges,
and on those silvery streamlets,  sparkling  in
the sunlight, hung  the destiny of a people iso-
lated from  home and friends, from  laws and
humanity.  These fainting and weary pilgrims
suffered  from  the rigors of the  climate and
the barrenness  of  the  desert.    Their  crops
were devoured by  the insects from the moun-
tains and  their  lives  endangered  from  the
squalid barbarians who eked out a  scanty ex
istence by competing with the starving wolves
for the little game that survived in  this  for-
bidding  district.  Such  was  Utah in her in-
fancy.   Honest toil and  preservation through
every trial and difficulty has raised her to the
position she now acquires as one of the most
thriving territories  in  the  Union.   And  is

[Column 3]
this  the  work of man  alone?  Not by  any
means.   Woman's courage, skill  and  labor
have been here; woman's consolation and en-
couragement in the hours of sorrow and disap-
pointment; woman's heroism and devotion in
time of danger and death; her tenderness and
love; her happiness and  smiles when success
crowned her labors.   Why  then  should  she
be  held  a  vassal  to his power; a slave to his
whims and caprices?  God never made her so.
He gave her  to man for a comfort and a help-
meet.  Should  she  then not join with him in
making and sustaining the laws of the country;
of his country;  of her country.   Are not their
responsibilities equal, their interests identical?
Is not her head as clear, her heart  as true and
her  judgment as sound as his?  But,  says one,
women should not be  dragged into  politics;
there is  too much that is coarse and degrading
in the association she is liable  to come in con-
tact  with.    Wherever womam  goes  her  in-
fluence  refines and   purifies.  In  the  back-
woods, in the  mining camp,  wherever  she
comes she brightens with her presence, and the
veriest ruffian will  stay  the oath upon his lips
rather  than offend.   Might  she  not then be
able  to still the turbulence of political  dis-
cussion  and purify  the atmosphere  of  the
ballot  box  and the jury room?  In  all  the
years that  the women of Utah held the fran-
chise  were they  ever accused  of unseemly
conduct, or of voting inconsistently with their
own interests,  or what they believed to be the
best interest   of the country?  Did   not   the
Gentile  woman vote for her Gentile friends,
and  the  Mormon woman  for her Mormon
friends without fear or favors? and was ever
the  ballot  corrupted or  the laws vititated
because women took part in it?   It  is  not
thought degrading for woman  to labor to sus-
tain herself and her family.   Her services may
be the most menial, her association the most
questionable and no fault is found on the score
of her womanhood.   Her taxes are as accept-
able  and  her conduct as amenable  to  the
laws  as  if she had  helped  to make them.
Woman in  politics should  be a  power unto
herself.  She should cultivate  and  enlarge
her  intelligence that she  may  influence in
wisdom those by whom she is surrounded.  If
she cannot  vote she  can  teach her  children
the  principles of republican government; and
rouse in her sons and brothers an ambition to
guard  the best interests of the  commonwealth,
by choosing men  of honest  principles  and
sound judgment as guardians of  the laws and
liberties  of the  people.  Let  us,  then, fulfill
our destiny, whatever it may be, and bear off
our part honorably  as  wives, as mothers and
as  daughters, and sustain every  good and wise
law that  is made for  this, the grandest and
best government that exists in the present age
of  the  world.   And  all  honor  to  the noble
women who are striving, in the  face  of oppo-
sition and discouragement, to  plant  on  this
honored  soil  the feet of freeborn  women as
citizens of  this great republic.
   Hon.  W.  H.  King recounted  his first ex-
perience in politics and the pride with  which
he cast his  first ballot.   The same experience
characterizes  woman in  her  duties to  her
country.   Mr,  King very beautifully depicted
the  progress women  had made during the last
decade,  showing  good  reasons  why women
should  be  permitted  to exercise  political
rights  equal with men.   God made women
equal with men and endowed her with  qualifi-
cations indespensible to  the  welfare  of our
government.   Mr.  King's speech was  a very
eloquent  plea  for  the enfranchisement of
women.
   Mrs.  Wells  said  she well remembered  the
first ballot she cast and was quite sure she  was
fully as proud of the right as a boy of  twenty-
one could be, Mr.  King  said "the  women of
Utah  have  voted  as intelligently  as  many


men."  I believe the women of Utah voted as
intelligently as men.
	Mrs. Wells spoke of the advancement
women had made since their first organization
and alluded to the special work accomplished
before Legislatures and Committees in modify-
ing the laws relating to property rights of
women and children, giving some instances of
the cruelties and hardships under the laws as
they formerly existed, &c.
	Hon. A. O. Smoot said his sentiments were on
record in the legislature that passed the
Suffrage Act.  He advocated the principle be-
fore the Governer at that time and believed his
sentiments had some effect.  He believed it
only a question of time when the whole nation
would yield to Woman the right of Suffrage.
	The convention then adjournsd until 2 p. m.


