		SEVENTEEN AND SEVENTY-ONE.

	This morning, ere ’twas light,
	A vision, fair and bright,
	Pass'd happily before my restful mind;
	It was of you, my sister, true and kind.

	I saw your life serene,
	When you were Seventeen;
	Just like an opening floweret, pure and white;
	No spot nor blemish mar’d the grateful sight.

	As flowers' first fragrance rise
	To him, who formed the skies,   
	So was your maiden loyalty expressed,
	To that great God, of all friends dearest, best.

	Life’s battle thus begun,
	Was, from the first half won;
	And I’ll not use the precious time to-night,	
	To show your brave defence of Truth and Right.

	No bloom, on bush or tree,
	More perfectly we see,
	Developing to fruits of lasting worth,
	Than marks your noble mission on this earth.

	More, I need not rehearse,
	The numbers we’ll reverse,
	And find you still, in beauteous life serene,
	Now Seventy-one, yet fair as Seventeen.
	With all good wishes for our Evening Queen.

	After the reading, Pres. Cannon in a few well
chosen words expressed his pleasure in being
present to celebrate the natal day of one whom he
so much esteemed, and referred to his long and
intimate acquaintance with Brother and Sister
Horne, congratulated Sister Horne on attaining
such length of days and still retaining her health
and usefulness, made general remarks upon other
matters, and concluded with asking God to bless
Brother and Sister Horne and their family.
	Pres. Woodruff spoke for some minutes in a
similar strain, referring, however, more particu-
larly to the days that were past, the associations
in earlier times with Joseph the Prophet, and the
Apostles who were now gone behind the veil. He
spoke with great fervor and earnestness, and ex-
pressed many good wishes for all present and im-
plicit faith in the future glory of Zion.
	Sister Presendia L. Kimball, who is now in her
80th year, also expressed her pleasure in being
associated with the friends with whom she de-
lighted to mingle, congratulated Sister Horne,
and asked the blessing of heaven upon all those
assembled.
	Delicious refreshments with ice cream, fruits
and sweetmeats were served to the guests and the
conversation became general. It was a pleasant
evening profitably spent, and the guests retired
from the house with every expression of good will
and prayers for future happiness here and here-
after. The writer adds her congratulations and
friendly greetings and trusts to see Mrs. Horne

[Column 2]
after another decade, as active and useful as she
is to-day.


