[Vol7 | November 1920 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lesson Suggestions - Lesson II Work and Business]
Guide  Lesson  Suggestions 
LESSON  I. 
TESTIMONY  AND  GENEALOGY 
First  Week  in  December. 
PIONEER  TEMPLE  BUILDING  IN  UTAH. 
President  Brigham  Young  was  deeply  interested  in  every 
phase  of  temple  building  and  temple  work,  as  was  his  leader, 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  His  first  thought  on  entering  the 
Utah  wilderness  was  about  rearing  a  temple  to  Jehovah's 
name.  We  have  every  evidence  of  that  fact.  His  remarks, 
as  found  in  this  lesson,  will  indicate  his  ideas  upon  this  sub- 
ject. 
President  Young  said,  April  8,  1852,  at  the  general  con- 
ference, this  before  any  temple  was  built  in  Utah  : 
Is  it  not  necessary  that  we  should  have  a  temple?  Now,  brethren, 
if  you  can  believe  it,  I  will  reveal  the  truth  to  you.  It  is  absolutely 
necessary  that  this  people  should  build  a  temple  to  the  most  high  God. 
"What  for?"  it  may  be  inquired.  "To  worship  the  Lord  in?"  No! 
Absolutely  this  is  the  fact.  "Have  we  not  heretofore  built  temples, 
and  commenced  others?"  "And  when  these  were  built,  were  they 
not  built  for  the  assembly  of  the  people,  and  for  the  public  worship 
of  God?"  Yes,  but  this  was  by  permission,  that  is  all.  A  temple  that 
is  built  for  the  priests  of  the  most  high,  is  built  to  be  occupied  by 
the  priesthood,  by  those  who  have  the  oracles  of  that  priesthood. 
But  it  may  be  inquired — "Are  they  not  built  to  assemble  the  congre- 
gation in  to  confess  their  faults,  and  to  exhort  each  other,  and 
partake  of  the  sacrament  of  the  Lord's  supper,  etc.?"  That  is  not 
the  design  of  a  temple,  though  it  may  be  done  in  it.  The  tabernacle 
is  for  the  congregation,  and  the  temple  is  for  the  priests  of  the  most 
high  to  enter  in,  and  be  as  pillars,  and  there  administer  in  the  name 
of  Israel's  God,  and  for  the  salvation  of  the  living  and  the  dead; 
that  is  what  temples  are  for.  For  instance,  let  me  ask  the  question 
here  of  the  elders  of  Israel — are  we  now  in  circumstances  to  go 
forth  and  redeem  our  fathers,  and  our  forefathers — to  act  in  their 
behalf?  Now  the  congregation  are  lost  at  this  very  reflection,  they 
don't  know  anything  about  it;  but  if  I  reveal  the  facts  in  the  case 
to  you,  then  you  will  know. 
Were  we  to  inquire,  where  is  your  baptismal  font  to  begin  the 
operation?  It  is  to  be  built  for  the  express  purpose  of  going  down 
into  it  to  be  baptized  for  your  forefathers,  for  the  remission  of  their 
sins;  and  without  this,  not  the  first  step  can  be  taken.  If  we 
cannot  take  the  first  step,  it  would  be  altogether  improper  in  under- 
taking to  take  the  last  step.  This  would  just  be  like  a  man  standing 
at  the  bottom  of  a  ladder,  all  the  time  reaching  to  the  top  round, 
without  coming  to  it  in  the  regular  way  by  stepping  on  the  first, 
second,  etc.  You  have  got  to  begin  at  the  beginning.  Although  we 
are  giving  endowm,ents  here,  yet  if  we  had  enjoyed  the  privilege 
that  we  should  have  enjoyed  in  the  land  of  our  nativity,  and  had  had 
the  privilege  of  building  temples,  and  dedicating  them,  and  of  occupy-