[Vol7 | November 1920 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lesson Suggestions - Tennysons In Memoriam and Social]

Third Week in December, (Optional.) TENNYSON'S "IN MEMORIAM." It is most interesting to trace the chronology of "In Memoriam." Arthur Hallam died on the 15th. day of September, 1832, in the city of Vienna. The poet marks the time in the poem by noting particularly the return of each Christmas. The first Christmas after Hallam's death, Tennyson is at his boyhood home in Somersly, Lincolnshire. It is a particularly interesting description we get of his native village, on that Christmas morning when he writes: "The time draws near the birth of Christ, The moon is hid, the night is still;  The Christmas bells, from hill to hill. Answer each other in the mist. "Four voices of four hamlets round. From far and near on mead and moor, Swell out and fail, as if a door Were shut between me and the sound." It is very doubtful if in all England another village could be found where the chime of the Christmas bells might be heard from four hamlets at the same time. The seasons come and go, and the first anniversary of Hallam's death is marked with the lines, "Resist thou thus, dim dawn, again. And how lest, issuing out of night. With blasts that blow the poplar white, And lash with storm the streaming pane." Then comes the second Christmas tide when the poet writes: "Again at Christmas did we weave The holly round the Christmas hearth, The silent snow possessed the earth, And calmly fell our Christmas eve. "The yule-log sparkled keen with frost, No wing of wind the region swept, But over all things brooding slept The quiet sense of something lost." Again does the poet trace spring, summer, and autumn, which brings us to the second anniversary of the death of the beloved friend, referred to in the wonderful lines: "Risest thou thus, dim dawn, again. So loud with voices of the birds;  So thick with lowings of the herds, Day when I lost the flower of men." Christmas is once more at hand, and the poet tells us that he will quit the note of mourning;  so he ushers in the new year with that famous poem, whose first line is: "Ring out wild bells, to the wild sky." The time covered is about two and one-half years. Yet interesting as it is to trace the chronological development of the poem, it is vastly more interesting to trace the changes bereavement terrible that take place in the to poet's and tried reconcile soul himself as he to faces his his loss. It is a soul's struggle from the beginning to the end. The poet images the ship that brought his "Arthur's loved remains." and finally the burial at Clevedon, on Bristol channel, the home of his maternal grandfather. At first he can not separate his feelings and thoughts from the body of his friend;  he lingers about the grave, in his thoughts and in his feelings. "Old yew, which graspest at the stems That name the underlying dead, Thy fibers net the dreamless head, Thy roots are wrapt about the bones. 
 " 'Tis well;  'tis something, we may stand Where he in English earth is laid, And from the ashes may be made The violet of his native land. " 'Tis Little, but it looks, in truth. As if the quiet bones were blest Among familiar names to rest And in the places of his youth." Later he seems to give little thought to the mortal remains; rather he is occupied with what his friend may be doing in that other world to which he has gone. He quite naturally desires to see him, and longs, as many people do at the present time, for a visit from the dead. He wonders if the dead can see the living through and through, and is gripped with the fancy that perchance he has some baseness that were better hidden from the dead;  but he finally concludes that it is within the province of the dead to make allowance for the weakness of the living: "Do we, indeed, desire the dead Should still be near us at our side? Is there no baseness we would hide? No inner vileness that we dread? "Shall he for whose applause I strove, I had such reverence for his blame. See with clear eye some hidden shame t And I be lessen'd in his love? "I wrong Shall the love grave with fears be blamed untrue, for want of faith? There must be wisdom with great dead. The dead shall look me through and through. "Be near me when we climb or fall. Ye watch like God the rolling hours With larger other eyes than ours. To make allowance for us all." Always until we near the close of the poem, the poet thinks of his friend as an individual, and in that entirely natural way that the Latter-day Saints think of their dead. He feels that he must be growing, for to think of Arthur Hallam as other than one who is constantly progressing, is quite impossible. He has no quarrel with death, as a condition, his quarrel with death is that it separates: "I wage not any feud with death For changes wrought on farm and face, No lower life that earth's embrace May breed with him can fright my faith. "Eternal process moving on, From state to state the spirit walks. And these are but the shattered stalks, Or ruined chrysalis of one. "Nor blame I death, because he bare • The use of virtue out of earth, I know transplanted human worth Will bloom to profit, other where. "For this alone on death I wreak The wrath that garners in my heart. He put our lives so far apart We cannot hear each other speak." Later Tennyson departs from this method of thought, so wholly natural to him, it would seem, as well as to the Latter-day Saints, and thinks of his friend as part and parcel of the great universe. In this notion he was following the belief of the so-called cultured group of his period, the intellectual highbrows of his time, and very possibly could not bear to stand apart from them for he writes: "Thy voice is in the rolling air, I hear thee where the waters run, Thou standest in the setting sun, And in the setting thou art fair." The poem ends with a note of hope. The poet has made up his mind that to carry his grief longer means to incapacitate him for the duties of life. He leads his sister, Cecelia, to the marriage alter, and gives her to Professor Lushington, whom he accepts in friendship as next to Arthur Hallam. The poem closes with the idea that his friend, who was of such nobility, that he appeared before the time was ripe, for such as he, lives in God. 
 "That God which ever Hes and loves, One God, one law, one element. And one far-off divine event, To which the whole creation moves." The poem is replete with beautiful imagery and intense appreciation for nature so characteristic of Tennyson. He includes one stanza that appears to be a veritable boquet of flowers. It makes us think of Dr. Holmes' famous statement about being a florist, in verse: "Bring orchids, bring the foxglove spire, The little speedwell's darling blue. Deep tulip dashed with fiery due. Laburnums dropping — wells of fire." QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. 1. Read the entire section relating to the first Christmas after the bereavement? 2. Why are holidays apt to emphasize a loss? 3. Tennyson is fearful that his friend, Arthur Hallam, may advance so rapidly in the spirit world that he will be far ahead of him when his call comes. Are you conscious of ever having a similar thought in relation to your loved ones? If not a personal thought, did you ever hear any one express such a thought? 4. Is it natural for people in the first stages of the shock that comes with death to linger over the remains and graves of the beloved? 5. What gospel teachings are in accord with Tennyson's idea of growth and advancement after death? 6. What gospel teachings are in direct opposition to Tennyson's idea of the spirit of man after death being diffused throughout nature? 7. How many flowers does Tennyson mention in the lat stanza quoted in your lesson? 8. Which of these flowers are you acquainted with? 9. Which have you grown? LESSON IV. SOCIAL SERVICE. (Required.) Fourth Week in December. HEALTH. Communicable diseases are transmitted by (1) direct contact with diseased persons;  (2) contact once removed;