[Vol7 | November 1920 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial—Let Us Give Thanks]

EDITORIAL Entered aa second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor- - - - - - - - - SUSA YOUNG GATES Business Manager _--_-_- JANETTE A. HYDE Assistant Manager AMY BROWN LYMAN Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. VII November, 1920 No. 11 Let Us Give Thanks Latter-day Saints find much to be grateful for, every day in the year, every moment in the day, for life, for the gospel of Jesus Christ and a testimony of its truth;  for comparative health, and reasonable prosperity;  for family, home, children, and friends;  but I have an especial glow in my soul this Thanksgiving season, and I wonder if my friends will not share my joy with me: I am so glad that I am a woman. It was not always so! When youth and high ambitions claimed my life, I thought I was dissatisfied with womanhood and all its limitations. I fretted with my sex and came to mental grips with frequent motherhood and with my crowded walls of home and labor. I was so young, so burdened. I thought — alas, do others think like me? — that pain and care and swift discouragement could all be shed aside, were I a man! My river of life flowed on, now swift, now turbid, yet ofttimes clear as crystal, with sweet refreshing strength. Time and long experience drew me on and gradually there came to me a joy that I was just a woman — mothering my growing sons;  and not them alone, but scores of other mothers' sons came into my heart and life and built about my soul a bulwark of support which made my natural weakness into rivets with which to bind men's hearts to mine. Then, too, 
 both girls of mine, and many, many girls of other mothers, found my arms and heart, and I could cuddle all their hopes and aims within my own abysmal sadness, the while I petted them and taught them how to lay their burdens down at Jesus' feet. And that was also very sweet. To feel that through the iron bars which bound my soul in sex-restraints my willing hands and tender love could be to all of these a present help which men can rarely give. At last my prison changed — so gradually yet so happily — into a moated castle where peace and safety dwelt for pilgrims, while war and wild assault were kept at bay by all my legion of loving male defenders. They loved the strife and swift reprisal, while I leaned softly on my limitations and came to thank my God that he had made me just a woman. Unless you've travelled all this dreary road which I describe you will not catch my meaning;  but anyway, let us all give thanks for wifehood, motherhood, and most of all, for tender, gentle, helpful, womanhood. Again, this year, the Utah Health Associations are appealing to the people generally, to buy Red Cross Seals so that funds may be provided to carry on the fight against tuberculosis in this state. The cost is trifling and yet if all buy a few cent's worth of stamps the result will be both successful and surprising. The editor would like to secure several copies of No. 3, volume 4, (March, 1917,) and No. 3 and 9, of volume 7, (March and September, 1920.)