[Vol56 | March 1969 | Page 206 | General Feature | Spring Blossoms Defy the | Winter Snow]
d C. Kimball, Stake President. A lovely quilt was presented to President and Mrs. Wilford C. Kimball at the close of a "Friendship Luncheon," appropriately themed "A Day to Remember." North Columbia River Stake Relief Society Presents Luau, June 1, 1968. Left to right: Elaine Kaukani, native Hawaiian, who took charge of the entertainment; Eileen Campbell, social relations class leader; Beverly Stephan, spiritual living class leader; EllaRee Taylor, Secretary-Treasurer; Helen Dean, native Hawaiian, who took charge of menu and food preparation; Madelein Bennett, homemaking leader; Sarah Williams, Magazine representative; Leah Bentley, Homemaking Counselor; Janette Potts, cultural refinement class leader; Elizabeth Barton, President; Marilyn Horrocks, Education Counselor; Alveretta Wirth, chorister. Twenty native Hawaiians furnished the program for the authentic Hawaiian Luau, an annual money-making project. 201 J ae "—«-* -—-* *' f p Make Your Heirlooms With Decoupage Description and Transparencies by Dorothy J. Roberts Designs and Articles Made by Winifred D. Anderson @® Winifred D. Anderson, decoupage expert, says découpage, now in vogue, is the revival of an artcraft which originated in Venice during the seventeenth century: de (decorate), cou (cut), page (page). In the eighteenth century the ladies of the French court were required to decorate the ornate palace furniture in this way. The poor, unable to afford the paintings of the masters in their homes, simulated these paintings with small pieces of pictures Tad a) v3 DAADAAAAAAABAAAAAAA AS AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA AAA ALC ET Tae ee AAA RATA LEAAALAS INET 0 OFTETTOVTENETVT EVEN 66 SEVEV ECT OTT UTIL IVYTTTTITTY whe \ ae glued on wood, varnished, and set in ornate frames. A perfectly done piece of découpage becomes a family heirloom. Tools: small sanding block, metal, with brackets to remove paper (faced with a sponge and a piece of felt) roller (from craft house or hobby store or rolling pin or bottle) scissors (manicure or small pointed) sandpaper (221, 400, and 600, waterproof) steel wool (0000 size,) paint brush (1 inch) glue (white), felt as needed, powdered pumice, powdered rottenstone (Continued on page 211) Make a Decorative Rug Marjorie Kerr Huntington Beach Stake, California Transparency by J M. Heslop ave @ Get your imagination working and let's make a rug. A rug, you say? Well, where do we begin? Let's begin by deciding where we need a throw rug, and the design which will be used. Now for the materials. You will need: e a piece of plywood, the size of the rug being made e carpet samples e a piece of plastic to put over the plywood e paint brush e light-weight denim or unbleached muslin e razor blade e patterns of designs to be made from carpet samples e band-aid for e water-proof adhesive recommended by a carpet dealer (latex) protecting fingers Put the plywood on the kitchen table. Cover it with plastic and tack the denim on. Denim should be about one inch larger than the rug is planned to be. This will be turned under and cemented for an edging. Mark your design on the back side of the carpet samples. Designs may be original drawings, commercial patterns, or they may be enlargements made from pictures in children's books. Cut the designs in the carpets with a razor blade. Paint the back side of design pieces with adhesive and lay them on the denim. Place the rug pieces as close together as possible, filling in the spaces around the design with pieces of a different kind of carpet sample. Light-weighting for ten minutes, until latex sets, will make a better rug. (I use a portable sewing machine as a weight and move it around as I work.) When all of the pieces are in place, turn the rug over and cement down the one inch edging. Let the rug dry, and, if desired, apply some decorative fringe or tassels with rug cement. How about another rug? A flowered one for Kathleen's and Kimberly's room, a striped one for the hall, a hexagon design for Gayle's room, a clown for Kevin's room?

Spring Blossoms Defy The Winter Snow m Although springtime seems to arrive later and later each year, certain lovely blossoms defy the winds and snow, and, sometime in March in some areas of the Northern Hemisphere, their pretty blossoms offer hope for the new and welcome season. Many of these first blossoms appear on fruit trees, such as the apricot and quince blossoms. Forsythia blossoms traditionally bloom before the leaves. The lovely Red Emperor tulips create a radiant sight as they come into bloom long before other flowers greet the warm spring sunshine. Transparencies by Willard Luce Flowering Quince ''Behold, I Have Set Before Thee an Open Door'' Designs and arrangements by Melva Blakemore, former counselor, Hawthorne Ward Relief Society, Sugar House Stake, Utah Margaret Wonnacott, President, Sugar House Stake Relief Society Transparency by J M. Heslop The great door of Relief Society (scrollwork design taken from the great door of the main entrance to the Relief Society Building in Salt Lake City, Utah). Through the great door of Relief Society, the sisters may make progress in spiritual growth, happier living, companionship, and knowledge to the goal of perfect womanhood and the eternal door opening to the kingdom of God. Standing, left to right: Melba Blakemore and Margaret Wonnacott. "The scriptures record many uses by the Savior of a doorway as a symbol of entering into the kingdom of God." From an address by Louise W. Madsen, Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society (The Relief Society Magazine, November 1965, page 810) The several displavs illustrating the "Open Door" theme were first prepared as centerpieces for the Hawthorne Ward Relief Society Birthday party in March 1965, and were ijater featured in the Lomemaking aisplays at the Relief Society Annual General Conference. One of the unusually jovely arrangements is presented as an illustration on this page. The figurines are from the Royal Doulton collection belonging to Sister Blakemore A Way to Remember Family and Friends Arabella Smart Parkinson Daines received many greeting cards, bouquets, books, and mementos, on her ninety-sixth birthday, October 23, 1968. Each remembrance spoke of appreciation, friendship, love, companionship—and each one mentioned the many long and fruitful years of a beloved mother, grand- +8. ' e &: h i' allie. Mother, great-grandmother—loyal Church worker and Relief Society officer and teacher. She was born in Franklin, Idaho, and as a young woman she worked in the Frankling store and also learned dressmaking. At eighteen she became head cook at the State Industrial School in Ogden, Utah. In May 1898 she was married to Robert H. Daines and they became the parents of five children, and they now have a large posterity of grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Sister Daines loves Relief Society, and through her years of service she has learned the usefulness and the beauty of the Relief Society program. She served as counselor under two Relief Society presidents in Preston, Idaho, and was a visiting teacher for many years. Her special fields' of compassionate service have been caring for the sick, visiting the homebound, cooking and taking meals to families in need, and teaching sewing and tailoring skills to many women and girls who have found the teachings useful in their homes. It is remembered that Arabella Smart Parkinson Daines taught her children loyalty, love, kindness, and concern for the welfare of others. 207 Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts What A Lovely Thing To Do! Bouquets for the Chapel @ Each Sunday as one enters the chapel, eyes eagerly look for the unusually handsome flower arrangements—on the grand piano, on the secretary's table, in the entranceway. These are greetings especially for each member of the congregation, contribution to the Sabbath and to those she loves, and to the whole ward, from Bishop Lerwill Smith's wife Ruth, of the Portland, Oregon, Sixth Ward, Columbia River Stake. She is indeed a mother to the members. This is only one of her loving contributions to ward unity and joy. Her enchanting flower arrangements also beautify the homes of ward members and at special occasions. Some distinguishing marks of her bouquets are the drapes she often uses— satin, net, perhaps two-toned—twined through the flowers, fluffed around the base, with sometimes a figurine or two contributing to the effect. Always there is a thrilling harmony of color and design. She uses live flowers, artificial flowers, and mixtures of the two. 208 She says anyone can learn to arrange flowers beautifully. Here is what is needed and what is to be done: 1. 2. 3. Se = 8. 9. 10. 11. Have suitable containers. Get styrofoam in large pieces and cut out chunks to fit containers. Have a spool of florist's wire to wire flowers and stvrofoam to containers, and to attach bows and drapes. Attach florist picks to droopy stems so they can be thrust into the styrofoam. Use "Oasis," instead of styrofoam, for live flowers; soak it with water, then, when not in use, dry out for future use. Use florist's 'tape to tape picks onto stems and to tape styrofoam to containers. Pick garden flowers in the cool of the day and wrap in wet newspapers and set in deep cans of water after removing lower leaves and sharpening stems, if flowers are not too tender. Separate flowers into groups of colors and sizes for easy selection. Begin with a two or three flower center, to be the tallest part of the bouquet. Build a shape, as the triangular, then fill the shape with the right flowers. Have different textures, but not too much difference in sizes of flowers. Grapes or fruits may be added. Easter was brightened by her generous bouquet of lilacs, pink tulips, and artificial lilies twined with an orchid satin drape, gracing an elegant brass compote. ALWAYS GREEN AND GROWING How extraordinary! Forsythia along The walk bursts bright and yellow in the spring; Its bell-shaped blossoms fling a jaunty song Denying grace to winter's lingering. Then, when the world is warmed beyond a frost And sweet with hyacinth or rose perfume, Forsythia turns to green, no beauty lost, And makes a blending backdrop for their bloom. How extraordinary—to fashion thought That wakes an era; that flashes brilliant light Upon a wondering, waiting world, fraught With promise, penetrating mental night; That, always green and growing, will enfold The blossoming of truth, centuries old.