[Vol56 | March 1969 | Page 208 | General Feature | A Way to Remember Family and Friends | ]
The figurines are from the Royal Doulton collection belonging to Sister Blakemore A Way to Remember Family and Friends Arabella Smart Parkinson Daines received many greeting cards, bouquets, books, and mementos, on her ninety-sixth birthday, October 23, 1968. Each remembrance spoke of appreciation, friendship, love, companionship—and each one mentioned the many long and fruitful years of a beloved mother, grand- +8. ' e &: h i' allie. Mother, great-grandmother—loyal Church worker and Relief Society officer and teacher. She was born in Franklin, Idaho, and as a young woman she worked in the Frankling store and also learned dressmaking. At eighteen she became head cook at the State Industrial School in Ogden, Utah. In May 1898 she was married to Robert H. Daines and they became the parents of five children, and they now have a large posterity of grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Sister Daines loves Relief Society, and through her years of service she has learned the usefulness and the beauty of the Relief Society program. She served as counselor under two Relief Society presidents in Preston, Idaho, and was a visiting teacher for many years. Her special fields' of compassionate service have been caring for the sick, visiting the homebound, cooking and taking meals to families in need, and teaching sewing and tailoring skills to many women and girls who have found the teachings useful in their homes. It is remembered that Arabella Smart Parkinson Daines taught her children loyalty, love, kindness, and concern for the welfare of others. 207 Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts What A Lovely Thing To Do! Bouquets for the Chapel @ Each Sunday as one enters the chapel, eyes eagerly look for the unusually handsome flower arrangements—on the grand piano, on the secretary's table, in the entranceway. These are greetings especially for each member of the congregation, contribution to the Sabbath and to those she loves, and to the whole ward, from Bishop Lerwill Smith's wife Ruth, of the Portland, Oregon, Sixth Ward, Columbia River Stake. She is indeed a mother to the members. This is only one of her loving contributions to ward unity and joy. Her enchanting flower arrangements also beautify the homes of ward members and at special occasions. Some distinguishing marks of her bouquets are the drapes she often uses— satin, net, perhaps two-toned—twined through the flowers, fluffed around the base, with sometimes a figurine or two contributing to the effect. Always there is a thrilling harmony of color and design. She uses live flowers, artificial flowers, and mixtures of the two. 208 She says anyone can learn to arrange flowers beautifully. Here is what is needed and what is to be done: 1. 2. 3. Se = 8. 9. 10. 11. Have suitable containers. Get styrofoam in large pieces and cut out chunks to fit containers. Have a spool of florist's wire to wire flowers and stvrofoam to containers, and to attach bows and drapes. Attach florist picks to droopy stems so they can be thrust into the styrofoam. Use "Oasis," instead of styrofoam, for live flowers; soak it with water, then, when not in use, dry out for future use. Use florist's 'tape to tape picks onto stems and to tape styrofoam to containers. Pick garden flowers in the cool of the day and wrap in wet newspapers and set in deep cans of water after removing lower leaves and sharpening stems, if flowers are not too tender. Separate flowers into groups of colors and sizes for easy selection. Begin with a two or three flower center, to be the tallest part of the bouquet. Build a shape, as the triangular, then fill the shape with the right flowers. Have different textures, but not too much difference in sizes of flowers. Grapes or fruits may be added. Easter was brightened by her generous bouquet of lilacs, pink tulips, and artificial lilies twined with an orchid satin drape, gracing an elegant brass compote. ALWAYS GREEN AND GROWING How extraordinary! Forsythia along The walk bursts bright and yellow in the spring; Its bell-shaped blossoms fling a jaunty song Denying grace to winter's lingering. Then, when the world is warmed beyond a frost And sweet with hyacinth or rose perfume, Forsythia turns to green, no beauty lost, And makes a blending backdrop for their bloom. How extraordinary—to fashion thought That wakes an era; that flashes brilliant light Upon a wondering, waiting world, fraught With promise, penetrating mental night; That,
