[Vol56 | March 1969 | Page 222 | General Feature | What a Lovely Thing to Do! Dorothy | J. Roberts]
[What a Lovely Thing to Do! Dorothy J. Roberts]

In Houston she meets handsome Jim Long who has devoted his attentions to her. The bishop of the ward is director of the famous Texas Heart Center. Jennifer's mother is suffering from a serious heart ailment, and a famous doctor has performed a delicate operation on her. M@ Mrs. Miles was pronounced well enough to return to Utah just five weeks after the surgery had been performed. It was a joyous day for all when Dr. Mayhew gave them the good news. Charles, Jennifer, and Elizabeth made plans to fly to Salt Lake City, where they would be met by a grateful and happy family. Jennifer's excitement at the prospect of returning home was not too severely dimmed by the necessity of bidding farewell to Jim, although she admitted that S f Welcome the Task Chapter 5 she would miss him, and the attentions he had paid. He was serious that night. "I'm glad your mother is better, Jenny, really I am. It is too bad she couldn't make it home for Christmas though." "Yes, but everyone is just overjoyed that she is all right now. It was a lonely Christmas for the boys. Dad was willing to fly them here, but Dr. Mayhew felt the excitement might be too much." "True. I personally am _ kind of glad you were here, however." He smiled down at her. Jennifer had become quite accustomed to his good looks by this time. She knew this goodbye was going to be difficult for both, however it was only for two months, then he would be in Utah. There might even be more problems then. 223 vee 8 yh ee March 1969 "What are your plans?" he asked. "Well, if Mother doesn't need too much care, I'll resume classes in February, probably taking a light schedule so that I can be more helpful." "And at the end of February, you're reserving time for me, right?" "Of course, Jim, I'll see you. Mother has made it clear to you that you are welcome at the house." "I'll want to see you alone, too," he reminded her. She smiled at him. "Jim, you act as though we'll be apart forever. It is only two months; less than that, actually." "I know," he said, "It's just that I hate to see you go. I've grown accustomed to having you around." "Now, Jim," she teased. "Let's not make this hard, please." "OK," he promised. "Just don't give your heart back to that fellow before I get there," he growled. Jennifer smiled. "My heart isn't going anywhere for awhile, Jim." She laughed. "Now you smile, and tell me goodbye. I've got an early plane to catch, and you've an early radio show. I promise to listen to you on the way to the airport."