SPARROW'S WORTH I know that thou art mindful of each sparrow's fall and yet can guide a nation's destiny, then still be ready for answering a call from one who is in need of help like me. I feel secure in thy awareness of my needs and that I have been taught the power of prayer. I do not know of faith the size of mustard seeds, my faith is larger than my heart can bear. My faith is not the kind to be described by size," nor yet the sort dependent on a sign, it is root-deep in knowledge, Lord, that thou art wise and that thy will be done, thy will, not mine. I feel a kinship with each falling bird, I know my sparrow's worth of need is heard. —Kathryn Kay The Cover: § Formal Garden, Portland, Oregon Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts I Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: I} Reflection of Branches Photograph by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Art Layout: I Dick Scopes liustrations: [I Mary Scopes 161 Son Near antl Ser I had the opportunity of reading in the October Magazine, the article ''Recipe for a Family Home Evening," by Lillian Y. Bradshaw, and I surely enjoyed her suggestions. Reed A. Benson, Fairfax Station, Virginia Having lost our first little baby, my wife and I were very touched by the poem ''David," (by Udora Morris, December 1968). We felt that we could emphathize quite strongly with ''David's'' parents, and so we were grateful for your having printed the poem. Hoyt W. Brewster, Jr., Gardena, California Dear Relief Society Magazine: It is with regret. And tears that I must say goodbye. My sight is so bad and no repairs can be given it, so I cannot read you anymore. For thirty years and more I have enjoyed you, but now I am unable to read the wonderful stories and articles. Goodbye Magazine. I hate so to see you go. I am eightyfour years old—and can see to get around but cannot see to read. Mrs. Amy Bennett, Downey, Idaho (Editor's note: Sister Bennett's letter has been referred to the Church department for the Sightless and she is now receiving the 'New Messenger Talking Book Magazine,"' and the Relief Society Lessons and Gospel Doctrine Lessons on records.) The article written by Mae R. Winters in the November 1968 Magazine (''The Apron") recalled so many happy memories of the past and brought tears to my eyes as I pictured my mother Mary Jane Doney Lowe, truly a great pioneer, performing the very same tasks with her dear aprons. Thank you, Sister Winters, for bringing back those precious memories so beautifully written. I do love and appreciate our inspired Magazine. It has been in my home for more than half a century. Aletha L. Handy, Franklin, Idaho I was tickled pink when I picked up my December Relief Society Magazine and saw the article ''Candy Animals—A Family Tradition."' For almost six years my family and I have been making lollipops—the year around, using six different molds of cast aluminum. We have been using almost the same recipe as the one in the Magazine, using half a batch at a time to fill these six molds. Each mold has three cavities, allowing us to make eighteen lollipops at a time. We had just about given up on finding any molds after looking for years, and then we found them in Minnesota. These molds are so inexpensive almost anyone could afford at least one. The reindeer, Santas, and Christmas trees are ideal for Christmas. There is a turkey, a chicken, and a rooster for the rest of the year. Lollipop sticks, special flavoring and colorings may also be purchased through the company. The molds are $1.65—and you can have them to hand down to your children. A catalogue may be purchased for 25c. Address: Maid of Scandinavia, 3245 Raleigh Avenue, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55416. Margaret Morrill, Price, Utah During the last few months, since I have been on my mission, I have found the true beauty of the messages in The Relief Society Magazine. Periodically we receive copies of the Magazine to pass on to investigators—and I always read it from cover to cover. Nelda Platt, Glenside, S. A. Australia I would like to express my appreciation to Mrs. Berg of Heber City, Utah, for having The Relief Society Magazine sent to me, as I am not a member of the Church. The many articles and stories make most interesting reading to me and my Irish friends to whom I pass my Magazines along. Edna Jordan, Belfast, lreland 162 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Sait Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 163