A PRINCE OF UR. 411 her life and all its best activities to making beautiful embroideries and spinning cloth and rearing her big broods of helpless children? This is not the way, I am assured that father Adam, and Seth and Noah dealt with the women of their households. No stream rises higher than its source. And if the women are to be narrowed down, why so will men and women who are born of them be crafty, close and very insular in all their lives and ideals." "Nay, friend, you go quite to the other extreme, and portray a condition fit only for the rough men of the plains and for those whom Noah himself cast out for their hide-bound prejudices and conceptions. But there is a happy blending of the care and guardianship of women and of little children, which must mark the grave philosopher of life, a care which shall set a price on the head of any wicked man who invades the sanctuary of the home, and protect the virtue and the happiness of every woman of the tribe, with the blood of every man beneath that rooftree. Such are the ideals of a noble race." "But how can love be free and fond if women are kept under the cover of a thousand close conventions?" "Is love more sure than Providence? Freer? Is impulse and the fierce young fires of ungovernable immaturity a safer guide and protection than the loving protection and guardianship of wise parents?" "Then wouldst thou marry man with maiden from the choice of parents rather than the inclinations of the untrammeled human heart?" "Damascean, thou hast shown a wondrous insight into things which men have hidden in this wicked city under heaps of superstitious debris and sodden lusts. But I would ask thee to answer thine own question by asking still another: 'If God has made us, nay, has sent us here to do His will, having been children at His loving feet long before Father Adam first came down to people this broad earth, dost thou not feel that our Father — God, knows far better than we just whom to mate us with, and where and when? Even if that be not so, will parents be apt to make any more mistakes than would their unbridled children?' Come, face the truth squarely and like a man." "And what becomes of the worship of Astarte, if thou dost shut the women in behind closed lattice and barred gateways?" The face of Abram darkened with fierce horror. "That is the very thing I dread and fear the most — the vile and pernicious worship of a woman and of the powers and principles of nature. That brings to earth more misery and ruin than all the other sins of fife. It is unnatural, it brings with it all the hell-brood of accompanying vice and licentiousness. When men 
 have quite lost their natural desire for the simple, homely pleasures of this life, united with the glories and the pure visions of the 'Heavenly Home' to come, then ruin, stark vice and rotting corruption hold out with slimy hands their sensuous arms to enfold the race and prepare it for swift destruction. It was so in the days of father Noah. How much better are we today? Yea, my soul yearns over my father's household and the remnants of the tribes of Shem. Ah! my friend from Damascus, for I perceive thou art thus bred and reared, I love God, truth, virtue, holiness — where then shall my foot rest and my soul be at peace on the face of this broad earth?" "Master," quoth the Damascean merchant, "I have seen thee twice this day. Warned myself by dreams and visions that my future course lay towards Ur, I was told that I should find a prince of the Palace of Silver Light, whose counsel I should take and whose service I should enter. Thou art the man. I now offer to thee the right hand of compact; here by the city's gate. By my head — by my hand — by my thigh — I, Eliezer, swear and dedicate to Abram and to his household forever my true and loyal friendship and service." Moved to the very depths of his soul by this sudden and splendid confidence of the youthful stranger, Abram's eyes filled with grateful tears. As quickly responsive as only orientals could be, Abram turned aside from the busy drinking-fountain Place, and when in the shade of a friendly accacia tree, he struck hands thrice with his new servitor and said with profound affection: 'T, too, have been warned and forewarned by dreams and by the voice of inspiration that not many suns should rise above the Euphrates before I should find a new and generous friend, sent to me for my present comfort and my future well-being. I greet thee, Eliezer, and thus make answering compact. By nothing shall I swear — but to thee I offer my true and lasting friendship, protection in time of war, home and wage in times of peace, comfort and sustenance for thee and thine as long as son of Abram and of Eliezer shall live to fulfill this compact." "One thing, master — my best friend in this city is Javanu. He has come here but two days since from distant Tarshish and other parts. He has helped and taught me many things. Say naught to him of this accidental meeting and our quick covenant, but let him think that he has brought about much of our friendly association, which indeed he has." "So be it. And now, Eliezer, let us upward to the promenade on the parapet to see what this lady kinswoman of mine doth desire of Abram." The two men sauntered quietly up through the inner towered Stairs and out upon the broad parapet, where chariots drove recklessly A PRINCE OF UR. 413 past on the broad, paved road atop of the massive walls of Ur. There were soldiers in glittering array, their flashing spears held upright in their mailed fists. There was no need, perchance, for hasty driving, here in this peaceful roadway of the city — but when men and horses have used themselves to be in haste, and thus to prove their valor — well — what would you? There were groups of Assyrian ladies to pass and repass — and how shall ladies know that warriors are brave or proud, if horses prance not and swords show no glitter in the downcast sun-rays. Here and there carved stone benches made restful intervals for the crowds of lords and ladies of high degree who paced back and forth, and as they passed or met they gave each other slow and soft greeting or chatted idly and with scornful lightness concerning the day's doings. Under the shade of a drooping willow tree, a lady sat with every line of her tall and lithesome figure bespeaking the nobly born dame of fashion and elegance. Her eyes were brown, but washed out in color, as if some careless hand has dropped a bit of white liquid in the soft warm brown you felt belonged to her race and tribe. Her hands were long and slender — too long, and far too slender — you felt that if one could just shorten the lines and add some plumpness to the palm and fingers, they would be perfect. And thus also her face — it was almost perfectly moulded — almost perfect it was. But the very lack was most provoking. For instead of the perfect line of the nose, it cut short just before the gracious ending of that aristocratic member could be finished. And the chin — round and dimpled it was — but too long, too deeply indented. It was almost grotesque — so this foreign merchant considered, who had thus seen the lady for the first time — this aggravating lack in perfect outline. Just one touch here, a line there, an added roundness, and the face and form would be a model for artists of all time. And Eliezer had a proper sense of what was beautiful in the human face and form. Her figure, as she arose, was quite too slender, quite too pliant. There was something so like a hungry panther in the sinuous motion of her limbs, as they moved slowly in and out of her long, thin, white robes, as she approached the two men, that Eliezer felt the hair upon his head rise in superstitious horror at the very image his own imagination had called up. "Ah, cousin of mine — how happy is Ischa to see thy all-beholding eyes. What hath brought thee down from thy templed tower at this edge of evening light, when thy usual devotions carry thee far into the starlight, and even find thee kneeling — when Ishtar, our lovely Moon-goddess rises on the darkened plains of Shinar?" This pretty speech was delivered with a cat-like purring that 
 accentuated the impression upon the Damascean merchant. But he only stood in lowly reverence behind his new master's back and caught occasional glimpses of the shadowy lady as either of the principals in this courteous duet moved into his vision. "Ischa, might Abram not ask of thee what thou art doing on the public parapet when all the fashion and unbridled youths of the town are parading up and down to show their gaudy trapThe thin, scarlet lips of the girl, too cruel to be beautiful, too pings?" straight to be gracious, curled in mocking derision. "Should I not remember that Abram ever answers questions by asking others? And yet, Iscah forgets anything but her affection when she sees her handsome kinsman bowing low before her." The unmaidenly boldness of this laughing sally — intended to flatter and placate — roused Abram with disagreeable emotions. How he hated sycophancy! "Be quit of thy fashionable badinage. Speak me in the simple terms of our fathers' fathers' household. I am a Shemmite, -bred to arts of simplicity, and I like not fulsome compliments, even on the lips of my kinswoman." ^>" this time the lady's foot was tapping nervously on the tasselated pavement of the walk. She laughed, however, and with a momentary dropping of her worldly mask and manner, she said seriously: "Will Abram give speech to his kinswoman, if she will be the simple child of the shepherd's tent while she talks?" "When has Abram ever refused to listen to dear and favored Ischa?" Gratified at once to her very soul by the mollified kindliness of Abraham's tone, Ischa looked searchingly behind Abram and asked: "Whom have you here? Some new devotee of your pale and colorless religion? Or a merchant friend, stopping for Abram's quick hospitality, which is offered to all who bow beneath his roof-tree?" "This is a new friend, a new servant, who has but this evening covenanted himself to my loyal friendship and assistance. By name, Eliezer, a Damascean, your highness." "Shall Eliezer prove his newly found service by plucking from yon distant palm tree some leaves for the cooling of my heated brows?" Abram smiled as he saw the subtlety of the request. To reach the spreading leaves of the palm, required a most skilled climber, and only through the expenditure of much time and agility could any one hope to comply with the lady's request. She wanted to A PRINCE OF UR. 415 get rid of his servant. Well, be it so. Abram smiled his assent, and the merchant departed. The lady waited in vain for her kinsman to begin their tete-a-tete conversation. Abram seated himself gravely beside her and waited as gravely for her to open up her mind to him. She had asked for the talk, she must begin it. "Abram, thou knowest the long years that I have lived beneath our grandfather's roof. I was not born here, and my mother was not one of your tribe. But I have inherited my father's looks, and am I not like the tribe of Terah?" Thus adjured Abram looked critically at his young kinswoman. The puzzling inadequacy which had so tortured the imagination of  the Damascean now filtered into the mind of Abram. He had really never noted it before, had never permitted his imagination to bring the contrast out so sharply between her and the peerless Sarai. Truthful as he was he answered soberly: "Yes, Ischa, you are like — yet unlike — my father's race and children. There is a puzzling likeness and a puzzling difference. But surely you have all the gracious queenliness which belongs to our race and tribe." All of which was not at all what the wily damsel had wished or sought. She tried again — "Abram. when the sun is sinking thus behind the hills; the waters of the river shine up at us like jewelled ribbons, and the perfume of a hundred flowers fills our nostrils, I think of my mother's home in far off Phonecia, and I long to be there in that favored land. And yet — my heart is here, and my lips quiver with the tender drawing emotions which chain me to Ur and to your own side. Look at me — see how my heart thrills and my eyes He turned as he was bid; the crimson mouth softened all into yearn." curves and the eyes were filled with the dews of her plaintive, sudden sorrow, while beneath the long lashed eyelids there welled up a devotion and a passionate admiration which no man could deceive himself about. The sight of her trembling lips, her tear-wet €yes, her heaving bosom and the look of wild desire wrought in Abram quite another emotion to what she had anticipated. Without one word he arose and threw out his arms as if he were being strangled. After one moment, he had gained complete control of the inner storm, both of fear and contempt, and he slowly returned to find his lovely cousin sobbing into her gauzy abaya as if her heart would break. Her long and somewhat thin, dark hair "broke from its rich fillet and came tumbling down in ungraceful disorder about her writhing body. She was a sight to inspire a good man with the annoyance which her kinsman felt. But he controlled even that, and said quietly: 
 "Ischa, do not be foolish. Be a wise and a good girl. There is nothing which is good and righteous forbidden to you, no wish is left ungratified. You have all the world to choose from, and God will bring your life to a happy consummation, if you will but put your trust in Him." She said nothing, but threw her arms around him and clung to him with desperate energy. The sight of two people thus engaged in what looked like a public quarrel, brought many idle people around them, and finally Abram could bear it no more; he released the clinging arms, beckoned to Ischa's eunuch and her maids, and bade them take their mistress to her home; then he strode proudly away. The merchant Eliezer was still dickering with tree climbers to get the lady's fans. But as Abram found his way down the dark and tower steps, he muttered to himself — "What ails the women of my father's household? Have they all gone stark, staring mad? Irit — and now Ischa — while Zillah — Ah, I fear that she is the source and the root of all this uncanny trouble. Plague upon the women — nay — I will say better, — God help them to be women and not wantons." (to be continued) GENEALOGICAL CLASSES FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE. On Friday and Saturday, October 1 and 2, the Relief Society conference will be held in Salt Lake City. There will be four genealogical classes held, at 4:30 p. m. on Friday and Saturday, October 1 and 2, and Tuesday and Wednesday, October 5 and 6, in the Bishop's Building, under the auspices of the General Board of the Relief Society. The attendance at these classes will be optional. All will be heartily welcome. No delegates will be called. Sunday, September 20, will doubtless be observed as Genealogical Day. We would like our sisters to co-operate with the Genealogical representatives and agents in the proper observance of this day, and suggest that a full report of our Congress in San Francisco given by one v^^ho was present there, or a synopsis of this report might occupy a portion of the program.