PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

	It cannot be expected that coming here as
the Latter-day Saints did, without money and
only provided with the barest necessities to
eke out an existence, but there would be much
privation to contend against. None were
exempt. The families of Brigham Young and
Heber C. Kimball shared in these respects
equally with others. Sister Presendia lived in
a very poor home indeed and endured much
hardship in consequence. When her little
babe was quite small she had to put up an um-
brella over them in bed to protect them from
the thick, muddy water that came down
through the dirt roofs. Mothers who have lit-
tle delicate babes sitting in their comfortable
parlors or elaborately furnished nurseries, can
have little idea of the trials of the mothers in
those early days in the settlement of this val-
ley. Brother Edward Martin who had a much
more comfortable home than Sister Presendia,
and seeing how much she had endure wading
through the deep snow in the middle of win-
ter to feed and milk her cow, offered her a
helping hand, and she spent most of her time
at his house where she was made much more
comfortable. Under all these trials and diffi-
culties Sister Presendia was patient and
cheerful, thanking her Father in heaven that
He had permitted her to gather with his peo-
ple to the Rocky Mountains, and also that she
had been a mother under the new and ever-
lasting covenant of marriage. Her little babe
grew to be a most intelligent child. During
its infancy she devoted herself to the care and
development of this little one exclusively, ex-
cept household duties, always taking her with
her wherever she went.

[Column 2]
	"While residing in the old buildings of Heber
C. Kimball's, on City Creek, called the adobie
row, one Saturday I designed visiting my sis-
ter-in-law, Caroline Huntington, of the 16th
Ward, the same place where my present home
is situated. I dressed Presendia Celestia for
the visit and let Oliver, her brother, then 10
years old, take her over to my sister Zina's for
an hour or two, until I could finish doing up
my work and get ready to go; Sister Zina lived
with President Young's family, in what was
known for so many years as the log row. Oliver
took the child up in his arms and placed her
on his shoulder with her big doll in her arms.
As they passed out of the door she turned her
head back to me with such a pleasant smile,
it was such a tender good-bye, and seemed to
make an impression upon me at the time.
Oliver took her to the east end of the row, and
she called at every room and received admira-
tion from all the ladies until she reached the
dining room, where the family were seated at
breakfast, each one speaking to her so kindly
and admiring her loveliness. Brother Young
was also at the table, and kissed her last.
Oliver then started towards home with her,
Oscar Young and several of the other boys
with him. They crossed City Creek, and Oliver
sat her down to cut some sticks to make whistles
for the boys; it was but a moment, a fatal mo-
ment too, he turned around to look and she was
not to be found. Her little brother Oliver,
to whose care she had been intrusted, screamed
and cried out "a red dress." President Young's
family heard the confusion, they left the table,
and all began the search. That portion of the
stream that passed Brother Kimball's had just
been turned into the other, and disturbed and
roiled the water, so that the child could not be
seen. Elizabeth Culvert Chase jumped into
the creek, went down stream two or three rods,
and found the child. Meantime, my poor boy
Oliver, ran home and told me he could not find
her. Instinctively I knew her fate; I felt con-
fident that when Oliver set her down she had
turned to go back to Brother Young's, slipped
off the slab and fallen in the stream. I ran
across the street to Dr. Williams', they brought
her in, dead. No one seemed to have any faith
that she could be resuscitated, yet did all they
could to restore her to life, but the vital spark
had fled. My tongue turned cold in my mouth,
I felt that I was dying. With the courage of
a martyr I restrained my grief, that I might
live for my boy, for Oliver's sake. My joy and
hope to which I was looking forward in my old
age was taken. I thought of what Brother
Joseph had said, "Children I love, and children
I will have." She was taken to my room, as
we returned Sister Vilate Kimball said, "the
flower of the flock has gone."
	"Everything possible was done to console my
son Oliver, but the poor boy could not be com-
forted; he would retire and sit under the bushes
alone for hours. I never blamed him in the
least, he loved her so tenderly, that his heart
was rent with anguish too deep for words.
Zina, Lucy and Clara Young prepared her
clothing for her burial, and she looked so beau-
tiful, so lovely. She was buried on the 10th
of May. I tried to smother my excessive grief,
but after dark I visited her grave day after
day, and there on the sacred ground gave vent
to my sorrow in tears."
	"A few days previous to the death of my lit-
tle one Brother Kimball had a curious dream,
that seemed to be a forshadowing of evil. He
dreamed that he saw a serpent carry off one of
his children; he went into every house and
warned every mother to watch her children
carefully. I watched and prayed, and that
very morning I asked God to protect my child
from accident seen and unseen through the day;
but God knew best. She was innocent, lovely
and fair, beautiful to look upon, and was un-
doubtedly taken from the evil to come.

[Column 3]
Strange indeed, but the destiny of everyone of
the Prophet Joseph's wives, that have had two
children born in the new and everlasting
covenant, has been to bury their first born in
the covenant."
	"Sister Mary A. Hubbard, who now resides
in Willard City, came and staid with me about
two months, which was a great comfort to me.
She had a lovely babe about the same age as
mine, and it took my attention, and was a
great blessing for the time. After she went
home I gradually lost my appetite, and grief
filled my heart. In the fall my health became
very poor. My sister Zina and I went to Cot-
tonwood with our children to Brother Bank-
head's, to see if the change would be beneficial.
There I was taken very ill and thought to be
near my end. I was nigh unto death, my feet
were cold, my tongue was stiff in my mouth, I
could not speak, yet I was perfectly conscious; a
candle in the room looked like the most distant
star. It was a log house, and the walls had
sunk so that the door could never be opened
or closed tight without effort, yet the door
opened by invisible hands in the middle of the
night, and my father and Joseph Smith walked
into the room. I knew by that appreciative
spiritual power, which all possess to a certain
degree, that they were in the room, and I
turned my face to the wall, feeling impressed
they had come for me, and that if I should see
them, I must go with them. I felt that it
would be too much to leave my little Oliver,
my only one now left to me, alone in the world
without father or mother, with the burden of
his great sorrow upon him, for he mourned and
could not be wholly comforted for the loss of
his little sister. Brother Bankhead sent for
Brother Kimball, he came and administered to
me, and by the power of faith through the a-
nointing and laying on of hands I was healed,
and able to return home. Several Elders ad-
ministered to me at different times. I returned
to the city after an absence of a few weeks and
soon after my health failed preceptibly. I
went into a kind of decline, which developed
dropsy of the heart, and subsequently dropsy
of the entire body."

To be Continued.


The Princess Louise has promised to send a
number of her paintings to the Foreign Ex-
hibition in Boston, next October.—Ex.
	In Omaha, Neb., 90 saloons pay into the
treasury $90,000 for license. This is one item
of the liquor question, but what about the
money the State of Nebraska must spend to
take care of the paupers and criminals, and
what about the desolated homes and broken
hearts, that no amount of money can ever
atone for.
	There is a handsome monument now being
prepared, by command and at the expense of
the Queen. It is made of Aberdeen granite,
and is to be placed over the grave of the late
John Brown in the parish churchyard of Cra-
thie. Messrs MacDonald, Field, and Co.,
Aberdeen, are executing the work. It is of a
chaste design, the chief ornamentation being the
Scottish thistle on the cornice, which is carved in
relief and a border of oak and ivy, just as it
should be. The inscription is as folows:—"This
stone is erected in affectionate and grateful re-
membrance of John Brown, the devoted and per-
sonal attendant and the beloved friend of
Queen Victoria, in whose service he had been
for 34 years. Born at Crathienaird, December,
1826; died at Windsor Castle, March 27, 1883.
'That friend on whose fidelity you count, that
friend given you by circumstances over which
you have no control, was God's own gift.
'Well done, good and faithful servant; thou
hast been faithful over a few things, I will make
thee ruler over many things: enter thou into
the joy of thy Lord."—Selected.


