BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	I well remember the farce, and for interest-
ing particulars will refer to the "Life of Brig-
ham Young." He says, "There were my sons,
Joseph A. and Brigham jr., Brother H. C.
Kimball's boys and others who were looking
on, and all seemed at once to understand and
participate in the joke. They followed the
carriage to the Mansion House and gathered
around Brother Miller with tears in their eyes,
saying, father, or President Young, where are
you going? Brother Miller looked at them
kindly, but made no reply; and the Marshal
really thought that he had got "Brother Brig-
ham." Lawyer Edmonds, who was staying
at the Mansion House, appreciating the joke,
volunteered to Brother Miller to go to Carth-
age with him and see him safe through. When
they arrived within two or three miles of
Carthage, the Marshal, with his posse, stopped.
They arose in their carriages, buggies and
wagon, and, like a tribe of Indians going to
battle, or as if they were a pack of demons
yelling and shouting, exclaimed, "We've got
him, we've got him, we've got him!"
	"When they reached Carthage the Marshal
took the supposed Brigham into an upper
room of the hotel, and placed a guard over
him, at the same time telling those around
that they had got him. Brother Miller re-
mained in the room until they bade him come
to supper. While there parties came in one
after the other, and asked for Brigham, Bro.
Miller was pointed out to them. So it con-
tinued until an apostate Mormon, by the name
of Thatcher, who had lived in Nauvoo, came
in and sat down and asked the landlord where
Brigham was. "That is Mr. Young," said the
landlord, pointing across the table to Bro.
Miller. "Where? I can't see any one that
looks like Brigham," Thatcher replied. The
landlord told him it was that fleshy man, eat-
ing.
	"Oh, h——!" exclaimed Thatcher, "that's
not Brigham, that's William Miller, one of
my old neighbors."
	"Upon hearing this the landlord went, and
tapping the sheriff on the shoulder, took him
a few steps to one side, and said, "You have
made a mistake. That is not Brigham Young;
it is William Miller of nauvoo."
	"The Marshal, very much astonished, ex-
claimed, "Good heavens, and he passed for
Brigham!" He then took Bro. Miller into a
room, and turning to him, said, "What in
h—— is the reason you did not tell me your
name?" "You have not asked me my name,"
Bro. Miller replied. "Well, what is your
name?" said the sheriff, with another oath.
"My name is William Miller." "I thought
your name was Brigham Young. Do you say
this for a fact?" "Certainly I do," returned
Bro. Miller. "Then," said the marshal, "why
did you not tell me that before?" "I was un-
der no obligation to tell you," replied Miller.
	"The marshal, in a rage, walked out of the
room, followed by Bro. Miller, who walked off
in company with Lawyer Edmonds, Sheriff
Backenstos and others, who took him across
lots to a place of safety; and this is the real
birth of the story of "Bogus Brigham."
	They never believed for a moment that
Brigham or his brother Apostles were guilty
of counterfeiting. It was only an excuse got-
ten up for the want of a better one to drive the
"Mormons" to desperation, that they might
have an excuse for exterminating them; for
then they were looked upon as a dangerous foe
in a political point of view, the same as they
are to-day.
	Dec. 26th. "At about half past six p.m.,"
he writes, "Sheriff Backenstos came to the

[Column 2]
Temple—was admitted to the office room. * *
Had conference with President Young, H. C.
Kimball, Orson Hyde, P. P. Pratt, John Tay-
lor, Amasa Lyman and George A. Smith. He
gave an account of the occurrences at Car-
thage.	*	*	Said the United States
Deputy Marshal was in town with writs for
the Twelve and G. Miller.	*	*	*
	"Saturday, 27th.	*	*	*	None
of the Twelve present at the Temple except
Orson Pratt. At fifteen minutes past ten
o'clock the United States Deputy Marshal
from Springfield, by the name of Roberts,
came to the Temple in company with Almon
W. Babbit. He was freely admitted to every
part of the Temple to which he desired access.
He went into the tower, on the roof, and into
the attic story, passed through the various de-
partments into the east room where he intent-
ly examined the portraits and made inquiries
as to where they were severally, but obtained
no correct information. He was requested to
take off his boots in the preparation room,
which request he complied with. After re-
maining about a half an hour he departed.
About two o'clock he returned in company
with Sheriff Backenstos and a gentleman
whom the Marshal introduced to us as from
New Orleans. They visited the middle room
and the tower and departed in about a half an
hour. Doctor Bernhisel came in about one
o'clock—had borrowed the "New York Sun"
of December 9th, 1845, which contained a
letter said to have been written by Emma
Smith to the Editor. 	*	*	*
Elder Orson Pratt has been engaged in mak-
ing astronomical calculations from several ob-
servatories—he makes the latitude of Nauvoo
to be 40° 35' 48".	*	*	*
Elder Orson Hyde came in,	*	*	said that
the officers had been watching his house."
	"Sunday, December 28th. Meeting at half
past ten o'clock this day in the attic story of
the Temple.	*	*	A very large con-
gregation was present, some of the side rooms
were filled.	*	*	About two hundred
persons were present, clothed in priestly gar-
ments. President Young addressed the meet-
ing, it having been opened with prayer by P.
P. Pratt and singing the songs of Zion, "The
morning breaks, the shadows flee," and "Come
to me, etc." President Young desired them
to be wise and do honor to the cause they had
espoused, and bring no reproach upon the
character of Him who has given us of the
things of His kingdom liberally. "The keys
of the Priesthood are for the purpose of im-
pressing on the mind the order of the creation.
Adam's name was more ancient than he was.
It was the name of a man long before him
who enjoyed the Priesthood.	*	*	*
After his fall another name was given to
Adam.	*	*	The order and ordi-
nances prove the principles taught in the Bi-
ble. First, men should love their God su-
premely.	*	*	Liberty and happiness
will never shine upon men until they learn
these principles.	*	*	The love which
David and Jonathan had for each other was
the love of the Priesthood. God is a person-
age of tabernacle. The Son is a personage of
tabernacle. The Spirit, or Holy Ghost, is also
a personage, but not a personage of tabernacle,
but a personage of Spirit. God dwells in
eternal burnings—puts his hand through the
vail and writes on the wall. And any person
who goes through these ordinances, unless they
cleanse their hearts and sanctify themselves
and sanctify the Lord it will damn them.	*
We shall not be able to have another public
meeting here on account of the weight on the
floor—it has already caused the walls to crack,
prevents the doors from shutting and will in-
jure the roof. I see here 200 persons,	*	*
and the wood is to be supplied as follows—
1000 men, or as many as can be obtained, to

[Column 3]
go to the islands and cut wood, and send
teams to go and draw it to the Temple until
1000 cords have been obtained."
	"They sang the hymn, "Glorious things of
thee are spoken." Prayer by Amasa Lyman,
asking blessing on the bread. Passed around
by Charles C. Rich and George Miller. Bless-
ing on the wine asked by P. P. Pratt. While
the wine was passing around sang the hymn,
"Adam Ondi Ahman."
	"Elder Kimball next spoke—cautioned the
brethren and sisters against telling that the
Twelve were in the Temple. Alluded to the
stories in circulation that several persons had
been killed on their way through the ordi-
nances, etc., etc. After which a hymn was
sung, being led by Brother S. H. Goddard,
John Kay and William Cahoon, when they
united in prayer, Elder John Taylor being
mouth, and the congregation was dismissed by
Elder Orson Hyde. At five o'clock President
Young and H. C. Kimball, assisted by their
wives and Sister Whitney, washed and anoint-
ed for their health their three little children,
whose names are John Willard Young, Brig-
ham Willard Kimball and Mary Jane Whit-
ney."		*		*		*
	"Just at dark three of the dragoons sta-
tioned at Carthage came in with a man named
Noah Miller whom they wished to deliver up
to the proper officers. He was charged with
swindling several persons out of their proper-
ty. They brought a letter from Major War-
ren, the commanding officer, the tenor of which
was as above. This is on file among President
Young's papers, "President Young and his
wife and child, Elder H. C. Kimball and wife
and child, and several other persons remained
in the Temple over night."

To be Continued.


