OF EPISTOLARY CORRESPONDENCE.

	Dear Lady, Shall I not say dear Sister? I
felt from the first visit with you that you were
a sister spirit, and every succeeding interview
endorsed my first impression; it seemed hard
that you were forced to go away, your health
too improved so much while here. I am sorry
to hear you are again declining in health.
My dear, you will have to return here, for
here you were well; the climate is evidently
congenial to your system, as it is generally to
new comers; and I have remarked that the
sickly are soon restored to health; there is a
freshness and a purity in this climate that is
remarkable; I myself have experienced its
beneficial effects; my nervous system, which in
early life was fearfully sensitive, became in
this climate quiet and strong; and you know
how rapidly your health improved while here.
I feel the Lord desires you to be with His
people, He acknowledges you as one of His
fold; can you not—do you not realize the truth
of my words? I feel that the world, with all
its greatness and granduer, has not charms
enough to bind a heart and brain like yours.
	The grand, the sublime and the beautiful,
with all their varied appendages, are in store
for the Saints of God of all ages, but they
have to graduate for them in the High School
of the Lord before they can attain them, or
even have the faculty to rightly appreciate
them.
	Religion is an individual affair; it is between
each one land their God, and Him alone!
No human being, no human power, whether it
be as king, potentate or president—no Parlia-
ment or Congress has the right or the power to


attempt to stand between a human being and
his God! Freedom of thought, freedom of
judgment, freedom of action in the matter of
religion is granted to all the race whom God
made in His own image, and endowed with
His own attributes, their agency is chartered
unto them to choose who shall be their God,
and in what way they shall worship Him and
acknowledge his laws and mandates, and whom
they will serve, follow and obey; He endowed
them with God-like faculties, with reason,
judgment, understanding, veneration, adora-
tion and devotion; with a spirit that is bound
to worship, yet the human being bends in
worship as naturally as the willow to the
stream, it is the umbilical cord that binds it to
its Divine Parent.
	The subject has carried me away, and I for-
got that I was writing a letter. Will you
feel I intrude? if so, pardon me, for my inter-
est in you is great and imperative for your
spiritual welfare, therefore my conscience does
not condemn me. Accept the best wishes one
human being can offer to another.
			Thy friend ever,
					HANNAH T. KING.
	Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
