MY DEAR MOTHER:
	We are ready and waiting to go to Kirtland,
and I thought as I had a few minutes I would
write just a note. Cleveland is beautiful, very.
All that John Q. Cannon said of Euclid Ave-
nue is more than true. I was perfectly charmed
with it. There are two rows of trees on either
side of the street, and the branches almost
touch as you pass through. The residences are
grand, they have such immense lawns and
drives, the largest I have ever seen anywhere.
We arrived last night about eight o'clock; took
a carriage and rode from the depot to Forest
City Hotel. We were very much fatigued, for
the road from Chicago is very tiresome, and
they do not give you time to get anything to
eat except a cracker or cake. We were obliged
to stop here as we could not get a train to go on
until to-day; we have had a splendid time; we
went up Euclid Avenue, from there to L[-]ke
View Cemetery, where President Garfield is
buried. It is perfectly lovely, situated on a side
hill; we saw his coffin in the vault and the
place where his own tomb is to be. Two senti-
nels stand guard by his tomb all the time.
Lake View is also a very lovely place.
			NIAGARA FALLS, August 3.
	I did not have time to finish my letter in
Cleveland and so shall continue it here. We


have been to Kirtland and had such an inter-
esting time. B[--]lle's uncle and aunt (Samuel
Whitney and wife) are very nice people, and
were just delighted to see and entertain us.
They are very well off and did everything pos-
sible to make our visit a pleasant one. They
took us over to Kirtland, four miles distant from
Mentor, where they live. We went all over the
Temple and up to the top, had such a charming
view of the Kirtland hills. The Temple is be-
ing fixed up by the Josephite just as it was in
the early days when our people used it * * *
We visited Mr. Samuel Whitney's old house,
also Belle's father's old place (Bishop N. K.
Whitney's) and the old store; they told us these
were more natural than any of the old places.
The store is occupied, but the house is vacant.
We went to the house where Sister Sarah M.
Kimball was married and lived, Joseph Kings-
bury's old home, Joseph Smith's and Hyrum's,
his brother, and all the old places of interest.
The old graveyard by the Temple, saw Belle's
grandfather's and grandmother's graves, also
her aunt's; they all have very nice tombstones.
The folks were all very kind and nice, and Mr.
Whitney said if we should stay another day
we should have everyone calling on us, and he
expected any way that they would write an
article about us in the paper, * * of course
our names * * were registered from
Salt Lake, and Belle being introduced as N. K.
Whitney's daughter. * *	The
whitneys are pleasant people and well educated
and their surroundings are very neat and taste-
ful.
	The scenery there is exceedingly lovely, the
most beautiful hedges of sumach and sassafras,
and I thought so much of Annie and the "Order
for a Picture," that she recites so well, (I tried
to say it over to myself, but could not remember
it) the meadows where we went to see the
hedges were so pretty, and the new-mown hay
was so fragrant, oh, how I did wish that we
were all together, how much more we would
have enjoyed it.
	We met Sister S. M. Kimball yesterday at
Willoughby, where we take the train to come
here from Kirtland, she was just as delighted as
we were, but not so surprised, as she had regis-
tered at the Temple just after us, and had
noticed our names. She is having a delightful
time; her cousin, Ellen Granger, is with her.
We left them last night at nine o'clock; they
go on to Newark, Wayne Co., New York. * *
	We have been at Niagara Falls all day. I
had not imagined them half so grand as they
are. I have never enjoyed any sight so much
in my life; I will speak of them again but have
not time now. * * * * *
	Give my love to all the folks, also Belle's. We
are hurrying so to get to Massachusetts in time
for the Dickinson meeting I will write to you
from uncle's.		Lovingly,
