EDITOR EXPONENT:
	After an absence of ten years I find myself
again in the promising City of Logan. Promi-
nent among the edifices erected since my last
visit are the magnificent Temple and the ele-
gant and commodious Tabernacle, in which
Sabbath meetings are held. On Monday last
we had the privilege of going through the Tem-
ple, and as it was my first opportunity of visit-
ing a building of this character you may judge
of my feelings in viewing the elegant propor-
tions of this house of God. The workman-
ship, as well as the material, is of the most ex-
cellent kind. Great care is taken to have
everything properly done.
	It would not be right should I particularize
in favor of any class of workmen, as all the
departments show skill and faithfulness of exe-
cution. The Plaster-of -Paris work though
deserves a special mention, as it tends so much
to beautify the structure. The center pieces
of this material are being done by a Utah boy,
and display much taste and skill in design and
execution. The Utah material for this pur-
pose is much whiter and finer than that which
is imported from the east, hence is used in their
construction, as also in the other work. Those
who have assisted by their means in rearing
this beautiful structure will be blessed in a
day to come, and many will rejoice that they
have subscribed their names in so great a cause.
	A nickle fund, established by President
Moses Thatcher some years ago, has accumu-
lated over two thousand dollars towards the
building. Thus the young are privileged to
cast in their "mites," to aid in this noble work.
One little fellow a short time since asked the
privilege of going up to see the building, but
was told he could not, as it was against the
rules, and he might fall and hurt himself, but
he replied. "I've paid my nickle every Sunday
and I've got an interest in this Temple, and I
think I ought to be allowed to go up." So they
let him go. It is hard to restrain those who
help to build the temples, when they desire
privileges therein. And it is with different
feelings that those draw near who fail to do
their share in the great work. It will require
about $25,000 yet to complete the Temple,
which has already cost over half a million;
but this will soon be raised where everybody
feels interested. In passing through the rooms
the account given me of the Nauvoo Temple
by my father came vividly to my mind, al-
though I was quite a child when I heard the
description from my father's lips, but very pleas-
ing recollections concerning the Temple, from
which our fathers were driven, were inspired
as I gazed upon the inner beauty of this more
modern structure, and the peaceful influence
which pervaded the building, fills the heart
with unbounded joy and gratitude to God for
the Gospel privileges granted to us. Other
matters, on which I desire to write, must be
deferred till another time.
						E. M. STAYNER.
	Logan, July 27th, 1883.

	MOAN COPPY WARD, Yavapai Co., Arizona
