EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Dear friend, it seems like a very long while
since I have enjoyed the privilege of writing
to you; a severe attack of asthma and house-
hold duties has prevented me. Now I should
like to tell “Sister Eliza”, as you all lovingly
call Mrs. E. R. Snow, that her favor was a
great pleasure to me. I also was made happier
by the lines of love from Mrs. Crocheron.
And to the two Sisters who addressed me
through the EXPONENT of April 1st, I wish
to say, most assuredly I believe there is a God.
The heavens declare the glory of God; the
firmament sheweth His handiwork. "It is Mrs.
Welby, I think, who says,

"O, who can lift above a careless look,
	While such bright scenes as these his heart engage.
And doubt, while reading from so fair a book,
	That God’s own finger traced the glowing page,
Or deem the radiance of yon blue expanse
	With all its shining hosts, the careless work of
								chance."

	Yes, dear sisters, I believe in God. You say
then that I must, if I believe in Him, keep his
commandments; and you quote from Scripture:
“Repent and be baptized etc.” I can almost
say, in regard to the commandments of the
New Testament, “All these things have I ob-
served from my youth.”
The Rev. A. Alexander in his “Evidences of
Christianity” says that, “Man is so constituted
that he mnst have some sort of religion.”
That he has a “natural propensity to pay relig-
ious homage to some object visible or invisible."
I believe he is right in the assertion, and feel
that as I drift into the sea of unbelief I am un-
happy. I do not dare, nor wish to be so pre-
sumptuous as to try to stand alone religiously,
yet cannot find any church or persons who be-
lieve just as I do. The Catholics are zealous,
and, from what I have heard, their priests
preach good Scriptural doctrine, but their re-
igion does not seem to effect their every day
dealings. They can get drunk, sell liquor,
swear and do any and everything—yet be zeal-
ous, good Catholics; they openly violate the
plainest laws of the state or corporation. A
zealous member of any protestant church is,
by reason of his religion, a good citizen, a
good neighbor and upright in his or her busi-
ness transactions; but, to be a Methodist, a
Baptist, Presbyterian or Mormon, I must be-


lieve that "our church" has the truth, the whole
truth and nothing but the truth, and all the
others are wrong, and God will, some day,
"come out of his hiding place and vex them
with a sore vexation." I love everybody, sym-
pathise with the sorrowful and afflicted, pity
the wicked and do not wish to see anyone un-
happy. Were I a preacher my text would be
"Come, ye disconsolate, come unto me all who
weary and are heavy laden, I will give you
rest." "Little children, love one another."
"Peace on earth, good will to men," "The Lord
is my shepherd, I shall not want." The form-
alities of baptism etc., I believe in, and would
not oppose the Catholic's idea of abstaining
from eating meat on Friday, in commemora-
tion of the suffering in flesh of our Savior, nor
their confession, if the practice was not abused.
If a "tree being known by its fruit" proves
anything in this question the Swdenborgians
are right, for every one of that church, with
whom I have been associated, is, in spirit and
in truth, a Christian. But I cannot believe in
Emmanuel Swedenborg. So, you see, dear
friends, why I fear stepping into religious mud;
there is always one thing or another in the way
to prevent my faith from taking root. And
yet I wish to be religious, and while I am wait-
ing, like Micawber, I will live up to my favor-
ite texts, by speaking well of the Mormons
every time an opportunity is given; will, with-
in my little circle of friends, break down the
prejudice against the Mormon Church as far as
I can, and will ask you to remember the fact
that your opponents here, hear only the evil re-
ports, that your light has not yet shone here,
that men see your good works and glorify God
thereby. Forget, so far as you can the wrongs
of the past—the past is dead; let the dead past
bury its dead. All lovers of God should lay aside
bitterness and evil speaking one against another,
and join in one grand army against the evils of
the world.		With love,
	June 3rd, 1883.			EMILY SCOTT.


