AMERICAN FORK.

	Brethren and sisters, friends and members
of the Improvement Association, being called
upon to deliver the opening address, I deem it
my duty as well as a privilege to respond to
the call, trusting I may have the Spirit of God
to dictate me in the course of my remarks. It
is now eight years since the Associations were
organized, in which time there has been vari-
ous improvements. How much we have made
is before you to judge. What improvement
has been made is not entirely due to the efforts
of the young people, but to the efforts of our
kind and amiable President, who has worked
with untiring industry for our advancement
and for the good of the youth of Zion. In
my heart I feel to say God bless her, and may
all her efforts towards improvement be
crowned with success. The Improvement As-
sociation is a proper channel where good ad-
vice may be imparted unto the rising genera-
tion of this community, if we adhere to the
good counsel given. Some say they see no
particular good resulting from these Associa-
tions, such persons are found only among those
who care nothing for religion, and they have
no higher aim in life than the frivolities of
this world. How thankful would our parents
have been had they the privileges when they
were young that we enjoy! Young friends, we
have a great many advantages that our parents
did not possess.
	Are we thankful for the many blessings bes-
towed upon us, do we all realize our positions
as members of the Church and Kingdom of
God; are we fully alive to the necessity of pre-
paring ourselves for future usefulness? In the
revelations of the Lord given to us in the last
days, He says, "let the solemnities of eternity
rest on your minds;" the things of time are
small compared with those of eternity; is there
not enough in the prophecies and promises
concerning the things to fill our minds with a
determination to let the perishable things of
this world be only a secondary consideration?

[Column 2]
	The one main thing that we as young men
and young ladies in Israel lack is a proper ap-
preciation of the duties that devolve upon us;
if we knew it was at the risk of our lives to
get drunk and swear, would we do so, if we
were in the presence of a great earthly king
whom we knew would take our lives if we
committed such offences, would we gratify a
false taste or whim, throw away our lives? no,
indeed; but according to that which we all as
Latter-day Saints believe in, many of us break
the laws of that King who is able to take not
only our lives and end our earthly existence,
but he has all power over our souls and con-
trols our destinies through all eternity.
	If we knew and realized that by a few
years of hard study we could attain to all the
luxuries and honors this world affords, would
it not be an incentive that would cause most of
us to strive for it; but the Lord our Father has
promised us such blessings as are not to be
compared with any of the perishable things of
this life. For instead of the weakly, fading
tabernacle, ever subject to disease and death,
we are promised a glorious, immortal body, ca-
pable of enduring through all eternity, so also
with all things connected with our existence in
the eternal worlds, for the faithful are prom-
ised that instead of crumbling to decay as is
the fate of all things connected with this mor-
tal sphere of action, their glory and blessings
may continue and increase through all com-
ing time, and grow brighter through the lapse
of years; there are also great things awaiting
us pertaining to this life, for when the king-
doms of this world shall become the kingdoms
of our God and His Son Jesus Christ, the
children of to-day who have been reared in
the fear and admonition of the Lord, who have
rightly appreciated their privileges, and have
spent their lives in acquiring useful knowledge,
will have ample room to use all the talents
they possess. Let us be humble and prayerful,
as prayer is essential to salvation; prayer
serves to keep open the channel of communi-
cation between us and the heavens. Through
prayer the darkness that had hovered over the
earth for ages burst, and the light of everlast-
ing truth shone for it. Let us all endeavor to
be energetic and upright, and do all we can
for the further advancement of the work in
which we are engaged; let us be ready to aid
the poor and aged, for in so doing we will cre-
ate happiness; true happiness is not gained by
selfishness, but by making others happy. The
more we try to do this the more happiness we
ourselves will enjoy.
	May God give us His Spirit that we may
seek nnto him for wisdom and understanding.
And may the love of God be our guiding star
in all our Associations, is my prayer.
