AWAKEN THE PATRIOTS.

	The subject we wish to introduce or refer to
is rather painful as well as unpleasant. Shall
we soil the pure pages of our valuable paper by
inserting in its columns some items of the out-
rage committed upon a daughter of the Repub-
lic, viz: the imprisonment of Belle Harris. It is
without a precedent in the history of the Amer-
ican nation. We fail to find words in the Eng-
lish language to express the indignation we feel
while those who commit the crimes of prostitu-
tion and infanticide walk the streets at mid-day
unmolested. The same administrators of the
law that passed sentence upon Belle Harris for
presuming to follow the example of our Savior
when He was arraigned before the cheif judges
and rulers. It is recorded that he opened not
his mouth. Notwithstanding injury upon in-
jury added to insult to which the Mormon peo-
ple have been subjected for the last fifty years,
plundered, mobbed and driven; their leaders
martyred; their women outraged; in all this
the government looked on with silent contempt,
when most of those very persons, the victims
of these cruelties, were sons and daughters of
the patriot fathers. They loved the dear old
flag; they were born heirs to that heaven-born
freedom bequeathed to them by their veteran
ancestry. Maltreated and unprotected as they
have been under the government of the United
States, they have in no instance violated the
Constitution, or failed to honor the flag of our
country, and yet in the eyes of all nations, our
noble delegate, George Q. Cannon, who was an
honor to the Congressional Halls of our nation,
was deprived of his seat by a violation of the
Constitution. This we consider an insult, not
only to his constituents but to every American
citizen, and a stain on the escutcheon of our
country. Do the patriots sleep? O, God, awaken
them! Now, shall we who hold the birthright
of liberty sit silently by and see one of fair
freedom's daughters imprisoned for refusing to
answer impertinent questions? No! Belle
Harris has done honor to her sex, and placed a
star within her crown that will never fade, and
minist[-]ring angels bear record of her innocence,
and messengers bear the news to the land of
the patriots, who spilt their blood to bequeathe
that legacy that Belle Harris does not enjoy to-
day—Liberty! And should her case not receive
a righteous decision in the courts of earth, it
can be appealed to the councils of the Gods, and
then retribution will come; she can afford to


wait. The Saints were imprisoned anciently.
The Apostle Paul's imprisonment and defense
is a beautiful illustration of injustice and un-
righteous imprisonment, and the bles-ing of
God sending an angel to open the prison doors
when Paul and Silas were heard praying and
singing at midnight, when the prison doors flew
open and the keeper would have killed himself
but the mighty apostle said, "Do thyself no
harm; we are here," and the jailor washed his
stripes and was baptized the same hour. This
chief apostle testified that he had seen a vision,
and that Jesus had risen from the dead; for
this reason he was stoned and imprisoned; and
even in our day, under the sacred Constitution
that was given by inspiration, and the folds of
that dear old flag that still waves so proudly,
beckoning all nations to come to the land of the
free. Shall I write it? Yes, publish it; let the
world know and angels bear record on earth and
in heaven that mother and infant are incarcer-
ated in prison for the mother presuming to an-
swer the end of her creation, "multiplying and
replenishing the earth." We heard a talented
man say in a public lecture, that but few men
ever produced sons equal or superior to them-
selves from the fact of the mother being infe-
rior; if this be true, why not elevate women
and regenerate statesmen and patriots? Is not
the human family of more importance than the
animal creation?			WILLMIRTH EAST.


