BEAR LAKE STAKE.

	The tenth Semi Annual Conference of the
Relief Society of Bear Lake Stake was held at
St. Charles on the 21st and 22nd inst., Mrs
Julia P. Lindsay presiding. Singing. President
Lindsay said, * * we have met under very
favorable circumstances this morning, said she
and hoped the Spirit of the Lord would
rest abundantly upon us, that we might feel
blest and strengthened in our most holy faith.

[Column 2]
Roll was then called by the secretary and the
minutes of the previous conference were read
and approved. The societies were represented
as follows:
	St. Charles, Counselor Christina Willhelm-
sen; Bloomington, Sister Nelson; Paris, 1st
Ward, Sister Elizabeth Collings; Paris, 2nd
Ward, President M. A. Shepherd; Ovid, Martha
Carleson; Montpelier, P. Hogensen; Liberty,
Cotton Wood, Preston, Bennington, George-
Town and Soda Springs were not represented.
Fish Haven, President Frances Howell; Gar-
den City, Meadowville, Lake Town and Ran-
dolph not reported. Woodruff, President
Harriet Lee; Saleratus Creek not reported.
The statistical and financial reports were then
read and accepted.
	President Lindsay was pleased with the re-
ports as far as they went, but sorry that more
of the societies were not represented. Gave a
brief sketch of her trip through the southern
settlements; desired to visit the northern settle-
ments before conference, but had been deprived
that pleasure on account of the contagious
disease at Montpelier. Could see by the verb-
al reports that some of the sisters were slack in
attending their meetings, but willing to donate
and help in other ways. This is not all that is
needed. It is a mother's duty to attend, that
they may be prepared to teach their little ones.
We must be Saints in very deed, and be will-
ing to spend a portion of our time in the work
of God.
	Counselor Elizabeth Collings felt like doing
what was required of her. Had been greatly
blest in days gone by, and knew that the
Lord would assist her now, if she would rely
upon Him. What kind of people ought we to
be? We have many duties devolving upon us,
and one of the most importance is that of rais-
ing our children in the fear of the Lord. Their
minds are young and tender and we must set
them a good example. Teach them to be truth-
ful, honest and upright, and to live strictly in
accordance with the requirements of our
Heavenly Father.
	Sister Sarah Holmes felt that we were en-
gaged in a great and noble work. "We live in an
age when great things are transpiring among the
nations of the earth, as well as here at home;"
said that she could see that the prophecies were
being fulfilled. We came here to Zion to
learn the will of the Lord, and she felt that it
was our duty to do it; had been busily engaged
for some time in getting the genealogy of her
relatives, so that she would be able to do a
work for them when the Temples were finished.
What reward will we get if we never do any-
thing for them? How will we feel when we
meet them in the other world if we neglect
this all important duty? Felt that there was
a word of praise due to the people of St.
Charles for the way in which they had cleaned
and decorated the meeting house, as the Spirit
of God would rest more abundantly upon a
meeting in such a place.
	Singing. Dismissed by Elder Arthur B.
Clark.
	The P.M. was accupied by the Y. L. M. I. A.
	Second day, 10 a.m., July 22nd, 1883, Presi-
dent Julia P. Lindsay presiding. Singing.
Prayer by President Wm. Budge. Singing.
	President Ann Cook reported the Garden
City Ward.
	Sister Elizabeth Pugmire read the reports
sent in by the different Relief Societies.
	President Julia P. Lindsay said she did not
know how to express the gratitude she felt for
the privilege of meeting together under such
favorable circumstances, to give and receive
instructions. The condition of the societies
depended greatly on the teachers. "We may
think that the office of a teacher is not a very im-
portant one, but it is very necessary they should
have the Spirit of the Lord to dwell with them,
that they may be enabled to do their duties.

[Column 3]
Said. it is our duty, when our husbands are
not at home, to attend to family prayers night
and morning. We should call our children to
pray, beginning when they are young; have
them ask the blessing, and the Spirit of the
Lord will grow with them. A great responsi-
bility rests upon the mothers in Israel. It is
well understood that we have been for some
time anticipating having some sisters sent to
receive thorough medical instructions. We
have two sisters now in Salt Lake, and they
are progressing very well, but we do not wish
to stop at this. We wish to have one go from
every settlement, or, when the settlements are
small, one for two settlements, for it is very
necessary that we should have such in our midst
as are well skilled, and, by the help of God,
able to assist in sickness. Hoped the societies,
with such aid as the Bishops could give, would
take an interest in this important matter. We
are called upon in this stake, in common with
others, to donate to the Deseret Hospital, would
like to send all we can this fall. The Lord
has blessed us with means, let us use a portion
of it for the building up of His kingdom, and
in favor of such things as are necessary for the
prosperity of the people. Prayed God to bless
all, and enable us to serve the Lord our God,
in the name of Jesus. Amen."
	Counselor Elizabeth Collings said, we are in
a school to learn and improve; we should be
thankful that our spirits have been kept back
to come forth in the last dispensation, the wind-
ing up scene. It is much better to even be a
member of the kingdom of God than to dwell
in the palaces of the rich. Hoped that we
might be guided by the Holy Spirit, that when
we have finished our work here we might be
worthy of an inheritance in the kingdom of
God.
	Sister Emeline Rich	*	*	felt
truly thankful to behold the faces of her
brothers and sisters, and to see them in the en-
joyment of health; said, I see no pallid faces
before me; said she was particularly interested
in the remarks of President Lindsay, for she
had been engaged in the labor of nurse and
physician, and could say that the Lord had
opened the way before her in her studies most
wonderfully.	*	*	*	*
	President Wm. Budge said he had been
much interested in listening to the instructions
of the sisters; was much pleased with the re-
marks of President Lindsay, in regard to send-
ing sisters to the city to obtain a knowledge of
obstetrics. Good, faithful sisters full of integ-
rity and possessed of good judgment should be
sent, and those at home should provide the means
for them if they cannot furnish it for themselves;
he endorsed the propriety of the instructions
given in relation to household affairs. We
well know if there is a lack of understanding
and management at home, there cannot be
happiness there. Would like to have as much
time as possible devoted to the instruction of
the sisters, in regard to their religious duties.
A person who neglects his prayers, who does
not exercise the feeling of charity and kind-
ness towards his brothers and sisters, who with-
draws himself from the Saints, is not a Latterday
Saint. Would like all to be directed according
to the principles of truth. The people of the
world are guided continually by their own feel-
ings and with their interests, but we must be
guided by the principles of truth. We have
come from the midst of confusion, where we
should dwell in peace and union. May God
bless the Relief Societies, Young Ladies, Prim-
ary and all organizations, and let all labor for
the good of each other, is my prayer in the
name of Jesus. Amen.
	President Lindsay said the Relief Society
Conference would be adjourned for six months.
Primary would be represented at two p.m.
Would hold a two days meeting in Lake Town
the 12th and 13th of September, and also in


Randolph 15th and 16th of September; all are
cordially invited to attend.
	Choir sang an anthem, "Awake, awake, put
on thy strength O Zion!" Benediction by
Bishop John A Hunt.
		ELIZABETH PUGMIRE, Secretary,
		JULIA BUDGE, Asst. Secretary.


