MUSINGS.

	In moments of deepest solitude many, many
things pass through my mind. I think some-
times, particularly after holding converse with
some unfortunate person who views every
subject from the darkest side, what a priceless
gift is cheerfulness; how the sight of a glad,
bright face cheers us in moments of sadness.
What a world of rest and joy does the face of
the husband, if at be a cheerful face, bring to
the tired, over-wrought wife and mother. On
the other hand, if it be a dark and gloomy
countenance with which he greets the loved
ones at his hearth, what a shadow seems to
accompany him there, casting a gloom over
the entire circle of home. In these reveries or
communions with myself, I cannot but admit

[Column 2]
that the husband and father has no light task
battling with the world and toiling for the
daily sustenance of his family, but would en-
treat you all, though you have great trials and
perplexities in your business with the world, do
not carry to your homes a c[--]uded or contracted
brow. Your wife may have many troubles,
though of less magnitude, may have been as
hard to bear. A kind, conciliatory word; a ten-
der look; one single endearing term will do won-
ders in chasing from her brow all clouds of
gloom. You encounter your difficulties in the
open air, "fanned by heaven [---][---] but
your wife is often shut in from those healthful
influences. Her health falls, and her spirits
lose their elasticity, and you wonder in your
heart the cause. Oh, be to her what you once
was in your happy courting days, and mark
well how the drooping flower will look up and
bloom forth again with a beauty almost celes-
tial; bear with her, she has sorrows and trials,
to which you are a stranger; but which your
tenderness and love can dep[-]ive of all their an-
guish; and above all things do not treat her with
indifference, if you would not scar and palsy her
heart, which watered by kindness would to the
latest days of your existence throb with serene
and perfect affection. Sometimes yield your
wishes to hers; do you find it hard to yield
occasionally? Think you it is not difficult for
her to give up always? Again, show yourself
manly so that your wife can look up at you and
f[-]el that you act justly and nobly, and can freely
give her entire confidence and trust to your
judgment. If husbands were a little more
mindful of these little things so important to
woman, methinks there would be many happy
homes which are to-day desolate, not because
love does not abide therein, but for the reason,
we forget or neglect to speak of it; husbands
more frequently, I think, fall into the error of
thinking it is quite needless to speak of love
after marriage, and if ever taxed with neglect
for the same, will reply, "You understand per-
fectly well that you possess my love why reiter-
ate it?" Why, indeed! The matter that ap-
pears so trivial to the husband, is to the tired
housewife of countless worth; it is literally a
part of her existence. Husbands, if you would
see your companion wear a happy face; if you
would see her bright and cheerful, at once a
faithful, loving wife and true mother, bringing
up your children in the right and proper way,
imbuing the principles of truth and religion
into their fresh young hearts and minds; if you
would bar forever the thoughts of woman's
rights from her mind, and make her think her
position at home is infinitely superior to any
political office she might ever aspire to; if you
would see all this you have but to woo her
every day, as you did in the happy past when
she was but a happy, thoughtless girl; she needs
your love and comfort so much more now than
she did then. Her cares are so numerous and
trying that ere long, deprived of her husband's
encouragement and affection, she sinks gradual-
ly into a careworn, fretful woman, a comfort to
none, not even herself, and the husband de-
plores his unhappy fate in being tied up for life
to such a shrew. He would do well to carefully
scan his own actions in the past, and see if such
a state of affairs could not have been avoided;
and your children, those bright flowers that
spring up almost unperceived into your path,
give them too a father's boundless love and en-
couragement. One of our popular writers has
truthfully said: "The father who plunges into
business too deeply that he has not leisure for
domestic duties and pleasures, and whose only
intercourse with his children consists in a brief
word of authority or a surly lamentation over
their intolerable expensiveness, is equally to be
pitied and to be blamed."

[Column 3]
	I have, no doubt, already called forth frowns
and disapproving looks from the male portion
of my readers, but let me assure them I am a
devoted friend of good men, and as there is al-
ways two sides to every subject I may some day
take the trouble to pen some of my musings
on the other side of this question. In conclu-
sion I will say, we often wonder why it is that
we see so much sorrow and suffering in life;
it is indeed a mystery, and one that no philoso-
phy can solve; but God is wise and just, and
has said that our trials work out for us a more
excellent and eternal weight of glory; then we
must look to Him for comfort and support in the
sorrows through which we are called to pass,
knowing that He doeth all things well.
	Then,
	"God help us all, and lead us day by day;
		God help us all!
	For who can walk alone the perfect way?
	Evil allures and tempts us, and we fall
	Alas, dear friends, our human strength is small,
	And which of us may boast? Ah, not a day
	Sifts thro' our lives but each has need to say—
		God help us all!"

Clover Dale Farm.						B. A. B.


