NOTES AND NEWS.

	Mrs. Jenny Welsh Carlyle is the person
referred to in Leigh Hunt’s “Jenny kissed me
when we met."

	The Fourteenth Annual meeting of the
Amencan Woman Suffrage Association will be
held in Brooklyn, N. Y., Tuesday and Wednes-
day, Oct. 9th and 10th, proximo, in the Acade-
my of Music.

	Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball writes us from New-
ark, New York: “I designed writing a descrip-
tive letter from here, but on account of limited
time I will not be able. F. D. will tell you of
my meeting your daughters; I felt very lonely
in parting with them.
	I have had much satisfaction in visiting the
place of my birth and the scenes of my child-
hood. Cumorah Hill is nine miles from here;
I will pass it to-morrow. The house in which
spirit rappings commenced is in sight of here,
owned by my friend. Many visit it and take
away relics. There are many scenes and remines-
ences in the surroundings here of deep interest
to me. I feel that I have thus far been blest
and prospered in my travels and associations.
When I left my native town, Phelps, yester-
day, I felt that my course was towards home,
though I visit many friends by the way.

	The State of New Jersey at its convention
in August presented a very laudable platform,
which was read and finally adopted with the
exception of the temperance plank. The doc-
ument favored among other things equal taxa-
tion and universal suffrage. Telegrams say a
warm discussion followed over the clause allow-
ing woman suffrage. It appears too, that there
were women delegates present, for the papers
say, Mrs. Mattie Hawland, delegate, arose to


speak, but began crying and sat down. We
shall be very glad if New Jersey carries off
the palm in voting on woman suffrage.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Miss
Susan B. Anthony are receiving honors from
ladies of high social standing in London. The
August number of the Englishwoman's Review
will contain the addresses of Mrs. Stanton and
Miss Anthony at a meeting of the Central
Committee of the Natioual Society for woman
suffrage of England, Scotland and Ireland.
The Rev. Moncure Conway paid Mrs.
Stanton a very high compliment, by stating
that she was both a born preacher and prophet,
and invited her to occupy his pulpit, which
invitation she accepted for July 22nd, ult.


[Column 1]
