EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	Perhaps a few lines from this isolated place
may be of interest to the readers of your
valuable paper. As a Relief Society we are
doing the best we can under the circumstances;

[Column 2]
our numbers have again been reduced nearly
half by those who have moved away in search
of better locations. Our President has been
absent most of the winter and spring, and we
will soon have to give her up entirely for she
also will move away in a few months. It is
rather discouraging to us as a society to be
broken up so often. We hold our meetings
once a month as regularly as circumstances
will permit, at which we read the EXPO-
NENT and other church works, striving to ren-
der them a source of benefit and mutual im-
provement.
	At a meeting of the society held November
21st, 1882, Elizabeth D, Gardner, on account
of failing health, resigned her position as first
Counselor to the President. She was honora-
bly released by vote and Mary A. Farns-
worth chosen in the same manner to fill the
vacancy thus created. Annie D. Farnsworth
was appointed to act as secretary with the for-
mer one as her assistant for the present.
	A pleasant little affair took place here a few
days ago in the shape of a surprise party given
in honor of the above named Elizabeth D.
Gardner, who has returned to southern Utah
to visit her friends and benefit her health.
	Members of the Relief Society accompanied
by the Bishop and other brethren repaired to
her house the evening previous to her de-
parture.
	A dress pattern with a number of other
small gifts were presented with appropriate
remarks, which were affectionately responded
to by the recipient. Owing to her delicate
state of health no other exercises were in-
dulged in except music, vocal and instrumen-
tal. After wishing the aged and respected
lady a pleasant journey and a safe return all
withdrew, feeling that in blessing they had
been blessed.
	There has been a great deal of sickness
among the Indians in this vicinity during the
winter, and many have died. We have also
had considerable sickness among our children,
but through the blessings of our Heavenly
Father and the power of the Holy Priesthood
their lives have all been spared thus far,
though some of them were brought very near
death's door.
	There were two cases of sickness among the
Piute Indians of which I will make particular
mention. The one, a young man, came to our
house very sick; he had previously been bap-
tized and desired to be administered to for his
health. The brethren when they laid their
hands upon his head were impressed by the
Spirit that he would pass away. They or-
dained him an Elder. One of them offered to
take him home and care for him, bnt he
seemed to prefer his own mode of living and
soon returned to his wigwam among the sand-
hills. A few days subsequently Brother C. L.
Christensen, who is an Indian interpreter,
started to attend the Stake Quarterly Confer-
ence at Sunset. He called at the Indian camp
and found the sick man to all appearances
much better, he expressed himself as being
free from pain, and seemed very cheerful and
happy. Brother Christensen was absent about
ten days, and on his return called again, but
found the camp ground deserted, and that
they had had a very large fire just previous to
leaving, near which lay a portion of the re-
mains of a horse; by raking among the ashes
he discovered what appeared to be the bones
of a human being; the truth flashed upon his
mind in a moment. The Indian had died; they
had burned his body and killed his horse and
a number of other animals to accompany him
to the spirit world, according to their tradi-
tion, an expense which they could ill afford for
they are very poor.
	The brethren are laboring diligently to
teach them the fallacy of all such traditions.
Case No. two was that of their chief, an old

[Column 3]
man, who was taken very sick, after suffering
terribly for a number of days he sent for the
elders to come and administer to him, which
they did; he arose immediately from his bed
and requested baptism at their hands. Nine-
teen of his tribe followed him into the waters
at this time and a number have been baptized
since. Bishop Farnsworth brought the old
chief home with him that he might have
proper care and nourishment; he remained two
weeks, at the end of which time he was able
to return to his home on the reservation. As
soon as he was gone four of our little children
were smitten down with what appeared to be
the same dreadful disease with which he suf-
fered. One of the number, a little boy of ex-
ceeding great faith, was healed almost instant-
ly after one week's illness by the laying on of
hands. The other three were brought very
low, the fever remaining with them six weeks.
But they are all well now and the general
health of the people is good.
	Praying God to bless you and all who strive
to advance the cause of Zion, we remain,
		Your sisters in the Gospel,
		ANNIE D. FARNSWORTH, Sec.,
		MARY A. FARNSWORTH, Asst. Sec.
	P. S. We greatly appreciate the EXPO-
NENT, and desire to nenew our subscription to
the same.						M. A. F.


