AN OPINION.

	The city is getting a goodly share of visitors
this season. The gathering or reunion of
Knights Templar at San Francisco has brought
numbers of gentleman and ladies from all parts
of the United States, and Salt Lake City being
one of the curiosities of the present day, people
come to see it as they go to see Mammoth Cave
or Niagara Falls. The ignorance many of
them manifest in speaking about Mormons is
most absurd and ridiculous. For instance, a[-]-
ter walking around the city for hours, to accost
a little girl and inquire, "could they see any
Mormons?" As if Mormons were in a cage, or
shut up like so many prisoners, when in all
probability most of the people they had seen
had been Mormons. There are many of these
intelligent, educated and cultured people who
really seem to think Mormons utterly unlike all
other folks. Perhaps this is not so very strange
as "they are everywhere spoken against," but
the fact that when they come right into the
heart of the city where this peculiar people re-
side, that they ask for information from their
enemies rather than the people themselves
seems a little outre. However, they are only
following the example of the Federal officials
and Commissioners, who profess to be so deeply
interested in the welfare of the territory, but
have never in any way sought to become ac-
quainted with the people, but judge them from
an outside standpoint.
	The questions now before the public and call-
ing forth so much comment from the press all
over the country, ought, in our opinion, to be
more fully discussed right here at home.
	Why should the people who settled this val-
ley and made it habitable and desirable be dis-
franchised and regarded as criminals, without a
trial? And why should they be thus punished
by being deprived of citizenship for that which
was not an offence against the law when the
actual circumstance transpired, but was only
made so by the Poland bill of 1882. To illus-
trate let us cite one case. The person married
in 1855, in 1856 the husband died, both were
American-born citizens, descended from those
whose forefathers fought for liberty in the strug-
gle for independence. Yet this woman, a widow
twenty-seven years, at the age of sixty is exclu-
ded from the polls, forsooth, because twenty-
seven years ago she was a plural wife. One
might bring up hundreds of exceptional cases,
but to no purpose, for the commissioners have
decided that no person who ever has at any time
been connected in plural family relations shall
be eligible to register or vote.
	One item more on this subject, here are the
wives of Heber C. Kimball, every one of them
native-born, intelligent women, property owners

[Column 2]
and tax-payers. They have been widows more
than fifteen years, but they, too, are excluded
the polls. The wives of Brigham Young, pion-
eer women, who helped to reclaim these desert
lands, he has been dead six years, but it makes
no difference, there is no exception made in
favor of any of these plural wives; no consid-
eration of their present condition, because they
were once married in that, to the world, detesta-
ble order they are forever doomed, if such men
are to bear away.
	"The mills of the Gods grind slowly, but they
grind exceedingly f[--]e;" and to those who are so
ready to judge and decide, and to condemn on
the slightest pretext, let them beware, lest
judgement overtake them, and they be found
without excuse.
	The world is ripe with wickedness and cor-
ruption. Do these honorable judges, sent here
to enforce the laws, take any measures to sup-
press iniquity and check the growth of vice that
stalks abroad at noon-day? No! They are not
here to interfere with places of this kind, with
the whiskey element or disreputable places of
any sort, but to put down a religious doctrine
and practice that is obnoxious to the world, be-
cause it is in direct opposition to the practices of
the generation in which we live. What is the
status of morality in Washington, New York,
Philadelphia and Boston, the most noted cities
of the east? Why, these tourists who come
direct from these large cities tell us—that
women are untrue to their husbands, to their
marriage covenants, that rich men have not
only a wife, but one or two mistresses. That
the young girl or woman that is led away and
seduced from the paths of virtue is cast out and
abandoned; society will not recognize her, but
the seducer, the villian who has deceived, mis-
led and betrayed her, is received in society and
his crime only winked at, and Madame Grundy
allows him to pass muster because "he must sow
his wild oats."
	Is it because of the desire to benefit and ele-
vate the people that this campaign has been in-
uagurated against the Mormons? Everybody
knows better. It is to gain possession of their
property and of the public treasury. To enrich
politicians and greedy office seekers from the
hard earned profits of the original settlers. And
what have the Mormons asked of the govern-
ment, simply justice, nothing more, or not even
that but to be left alone. History tells us "jus-
tice is the essence of government," and without
it all forms of government are tyrannies. Where
is the justice of the Edmund's law, or even its
consistency, when we consider the practices of
the world? But even were Congress desirous
of crushing out and destroying the system of
plural marriage as b[-]lieved and practiced by
this people; why trample upon the sacred
principles of the Constitution by making the
law retro-active, in opposition to the very ele-
ments of ju[--]ice. To condemn and actually
punish wit[-]ou[-] j[-]dge or jury cannot savor o[-]
justice, when the law declares that even crimi-
nals shall be tried by a jury of their peers. God
has in no way manifested his displeasure at the
practice of plural marriage in the present day.
On the contrary, He has in many ways made
known to those who are partakers of his spirit,
that it is by him approved; in fact He has
commanded his servants to enter into this holy
order of marriage. It is a matter of sincere re
gret to all who comprehend the necessity of ad-
hering strictly to the basis of true government,
when such highhanded oppression can be
countenanced by the executive admisistration,
knowing that the consequences must be disas-
trous to the country itself. A great writer
has said, "Constitutions are never overthrown
till they have pronounced sentence on them

[Column 3]
selves." There are many things to be considered
when one but touches a subject that involves so
many, and such important and complicated in-
terests as that of legislating against religions lib-
erty. However unjust legislation Congress may
enact, the Mormon people can afford to abide
by it better than the country can endure its de-
moralizing and corrupting effects.


