[Vol23 | July 1936 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: The Possession of Mair]
Great grandmothers, Isabella Wheatley Durrant, Margaret All grandmothers are active workers in The
Possession of Pottery 
By Dorothy Nell Mair HAT was once a coveted treasure of kings and queens is today a cherished possession in every woman's home. And were it not for the disobedience of a king's command, Dresden pottery might still be jealously guarded from general distribution to the masses. Every housewife loves pottery. It expresses her pride. It also expresses her artistic taste. Her well-set dinner table, gleaming with white dinnerware and crystal, bids welcome to the guest in her house. Vases filled with flowers; candy jars on occasional tables; porcelain statuettes upon a mantel, or molded into book ends, all add a coziness to a room that makes it livable. Because pottery is so available to us today, we are likely to forfeit a true sense of value attached to some old family heirloom. Perhaps a vase, an old bowl, or a plate?very much out of date in design?may have been produced in one of the experimental periods which make the history of ceramics so romantic. Our pottery of today is the aftermath of an art once developed under mystic ceremonial rites, and jealously guarded in the long, long ago for pottery is the oldest of the arts. IN Europe, ancient pottery was the cherished possession of royalty, being first produced by an occult process surrounded by superstition and mystery. A great price was placed upon each piece: It was made for kings, and like all the great arts of the past, sponsored by kings. The formulas and secrets of its making were well guarded. It was not intended to be an art in which the masses could share. And so rare were pieces of Oriental pottery that Augustus II of Poland (who ascended the throne of Saxony in 1733) exchanged a regiment of soldiers for pieces which he admired among the treasures of the King of Prussia. A great passion for Oriental pottery swept the continent, and the pottery-makers of Germany attempted to reproduce this type. The experiments were costly, but since royalty could afford anything?at the expense of the taxpayers?the experiments were carried on. Materials were imported from great distances and vast sums of money spent. During these experiments new forms were developed, among them Old Dresden. We cannot think of pottery, especially the figure work, without recalling the name Dresden, which is Meissen porcelain. It was first produced by one Bottger in the year 1710 after a white substance used for hair powder was found to be true kaolin. This discovery was so sensational and so important to the field of ceramics, that the works were moved from Dresden to Albrechtsburg at Meissen for security. Albrechtsburg was a fortress, and the pottery works were placed within its walls. Bottger, with his workmen, was held prisoner. Such was the price of kingly possession and monopoly! THIS early Dresden ware was so admired by the king, that he issued a command forbidding its sale, reserving the pieces for his own use in the palace, or as gifts. Workmen about the castle, and soldiers, too, were often paid in porcelain. 450
