NOTED WOMEN AT THE CONGRESS.

	At the World's Congress of Women held
in Chicago in May there were quite a large
number of vey celebrated women repre-
senting great organizations and others who
had attained such national and international
distinction as to stand alone and indepen-
dent conspicuous only for the achieve-
ments made in science, art, theology or
some other equally noble and important
work.
	Perhaps the one who deserves first men-
tion because of her position as President of
the Board of Lady Managers of the Colum-
bian Exposition, and also President of the
World's Congress Auxiliary, is Mrs. Bertha
Honore Palmer. This lady's duties are very
arduous and require a great amount of
executive ability of which she seems to 
have an inexhaustible supply. She is
beautiful in face and figure and possesses
a charming expression that adds greatly to
her personality, but in addition to her
innumerable graces of face, form, figure
and expression, she possesses that wonder-
ful tact which has been said to be more
than talent, it wins its way at all times and
is never at a loss under any circumstances.
The many duties and obligations that de-
volve upon Mrs. Palmer are all carried
with the most consummate grace and she
never appears over-burdened. She must
be wonderfully gifted by nature not to be
spoiled with flattery or attentions, or grow
haughty and repellant because of the great
importance of her unique position as the
head and front of women's affairs in the
Exposition.
	Mrs. Palmer made the first speech of
welcome to the Woman's Congress after
Mr. Bonney had given the formal address.
Professor David Swing delivered the invo-
cation. The first woman's voice heard on
this momentous occasion was that of Mrs. 
Palmer, clear, distinct in tone, and simple,
forcible and expressive in language.
	Mrs. Ellen M. Henrotin Vice-President
of the Woman's Branch of the World's 
Congress Auxiliary, followed Mrs. Palmer
explaining the congresses and adding con-
gratulations and welcome. Mrs. Henrotin
is a very gracious and charming person,
born in Maine we were told, but educated
mostly abroad; seems to be a great favorite
in Chicago, and is certainly a very efficient
and competent person in the position she
occupies; where very much of the impor-
tant work of the Congresses especially in de-
tail must necessarily devolve upon her.
She has a pleasant address and is excep-

