IN RURAL ENGLAND.
				XXXI.

	IT was some weeks after the conversation
between Mrs. Bland and Lady Anna Wal-
ton, before anything positive was heard
upon the subject from Lady Walton in
Italy, and when she did write, she treated
the whole matter as a joke. Meanwhile
Lady Anna had done her very best by
persuasion and entreaty to induce Maitland
to go into a new country, and had made up
her own mind that America was the land
where she would be most at ease, and be-
sides Uncle Rob had written in such glow-
ing terms of the new colonies, and it was
more than probable he would take up his
permanent abode there. Dr. Bland too had
decided to give up the practice of his pro-
fession and enjoy himself in some country
retreat remote from where his former
patients lived, otherwise he could scarcely
follow his inclinations, as among them he
was simply a necessity; to him they attribu-
ted perfect knowledge of the science, and
he was such a favorite too with high and
low, that he could not have refused to go
in cases of emergency. Everything seemed
favorable to the removal, many were leav-
ing England either temporarily or forever,
some on fortunes bent and some for business
purposes, others were sent by authority of
the government to occupy important posi-
tions, but none of these various objects
stimulated either Lady Anna or her cousin.
it was entirely different with them; strange
too, for life to Lady Anna, especially had she
been like most young women was full of all
that was charming and desirable. But
Anna was not like other women any more
than her cousin Jane, both were peculiar
and distinct types, and such mothers stamp
indelibly upon their children after them,
the strong, characteristic tendencies which
constitute striking individuality.
	Something more is expected of the off-
spring of such women, and throughout the
wide, wide world, men who have attained
celebrity attribute the greatness of their
achievements to the mother—and often it
can be directly traced to that source, and
when the mother is known, she is usually
a significant type.
	In a new country too the conditions and
surroundings are such that new develop-
ments are made in character and very often
great improvement in physique.
	The new world was much talked of and
always favorably, and the feeling with
Lady Anna strengthened to such a degree
that she could not refrain from preparations,
though nothing positive was settled.
	Dr. Bland, was taken very ill and his wife
became seriously alarmed, she sent for her
cousin Anna and told her it would be use-
less to think of going to America, for the
Doctor could never endure the sea voyage—


that he must have perfect rest and quiet
both of body and mind. Lady Anna was
very devoted to her former guardian and
relied much upon his judgment in all
matters, as well as those relating to the
profession, and she felt it would be hard
for her to go anywhere without his advice
and encouragement; it seemed to almost
overcome her, for the first few days in the 
cottage, whither she hastened at the call of
cousin Jan, she was prostrated with a
nervous weakness brought on by giving
way to the disappointment she felt, when
her cousin decided they must all remain in
England. Maitland had been passive in
regard to going, and things seemed to tend
in that direction.
	Lady Anna cared very little for Walton
Hall she had never enjoyed being there, it
was a grand place, but not at all to her
liking; Hilliard Castle was much more to
her taste and as for the Walton’s friends
and visitors, she had no sympathy what-
ever with their pursuits or inclinations.
She had always shrank more or less from
society of which Lady Walton was one of
the chief attractions, and longed for the
restfulness and solitude of the wild and
unfrequented places near the old castle
where she was born and reared.
	Lord Walton’s only sister was an em-
imently popular society woman and had
prided herself on Anna’s peculiar style of
beauty and originality, and fancied she
could create a sensation by taking her under
her wing so to speak, and visiting some of 
the fashionable watering places when the
season was at its height. Finding herself
unsuccessful with her niece she endeavored
to gain her point with Maitland and meeting
him one morning alone in the breakfast
room while visiting at the Hall determined
to try her skill and accosted him with the
remark, “Don’t you think my boy that
your wife is awfully dull shut up in this
lonesome house, from morning till night,
and you always away at races, or sporting
exercises, hunting or fishing, not a com-
panion to speak to, or friend to confide in,
she has no relative you know, and I should
so like to take her out with me by your
permission? It is the gay season now at
watering places, and she is very beautiful
would be as great a belle I am sure as your
mother was in her palmiest days.”
	“My wife Aunt, is very diffident, and you
could not persuade her to leave our boy;
however, if she would give up the thought
of leaving England, or the seaside would
take her attention, it would be new, and
she has never been to the seashore; you may
try Aunt Kate; her father never took her
anywhere, but let her roam over the old
Hilliard estate, woods and grounds, and
now, if it was free from other incumbrance,
I do believe she would prefer to live
there.”
	Aunt Kate was delighted to think Mait-
land was so easily won over to her side and
determined to conquer all Anna's scruples,
and have a gay summer of it. How little
she knew the sort of material with which
she had to deal. Lovely in disposition as
Lady Anna seemed she had also an obsti-
nate side like her father when she chose to
show it, and she had fully made up her
mind to go, and to take Maitland and baby
away from the people and amusements that
had so completely absorbed him since their
marriage; she considered it her sacred duty,
she had expected devotion from him, and
coldness and neglect had been the result;
she would try some more effectual means
than lavishing affection upon him.
	It was not long until Kate Walton (a
spinster of uncertain age) found a fitting
opportunity to try her powers of persuasion
upon her nephew’s wife, she was out
gathering flowers for the table, a habit she
had, her amusements were not many, and
she loved the flowers, she was like a fragile
lily herself in her white morning gown,
and as Aunt Kate came near she compli-
mented her beauty, but added, you are as
delicate as the most sensitive flower, you
need change of air, and scene, come with
me to the seashore, leave off brooding over
things you cannot help—you will soon
bring the roses back you have lost since
baby came.”
	“Aunt Kate she answered almost sharply
I am going away, to have a decided change,
to another country America, the new world
and everything will be be changed then, it
must be, I cannot endure the pain I am
bearing now; life is wearisome.” Lady
Anna was not prepared for Aunt Kate’s re-
ply but her ready wit came to her aid; when
she stopped as abruptly as she began;
Miss Walton replied, “You have no right
Anna to bury yourself in a wilderness to
gratify a caprice and especially to take with
you the heir of Walton Hall and bring him
up like a commoner; his father owes it to
England that he should be raised and
educated a nobleman, if you have no pride
of birth and have power to ever-persuade
Maitland we will see what influence can be
brought to hear to hinder this outrage upon
good breeding.”
	Lady Anna was amazed, it was some-
thing unlooked for, it had never entered her
mind that such obstacles could be interpo-
sed, she replied calmly for she saw how
excited Miss Walton had become while
talking. “Maitland made no such objec-
tion, he must know if it would be a
wrong to England; but begging your par-
don, are there not people going of title and
of fortune, that are of as much consequence
as the Waltons? however, in a matter in-
volving such grave question I certainly do
not hold myself an oracle, and therefore we
need not waste words in an angry dispute,
Maitland is in the house I believe, but
Aunt Kate rest assured I shall not go to a
fashionable watering place even if preven-
ted from going to a new land.”
	At breakfast Aunt Kate introduced the
subject bringing up the most serious argu-
ments—Maitland treated it all with the ut-
most nonchalance. Anna remained
thoughtful and only answered when ad-
dressed, but one could see from the intense
curl of her lips that she was not convinced,
and would ultimately have her own way;
she was shrewd enough to wait in silence
for the advantage.
	Off went Maitland to London and away
drove Lady Anna, nurse and baby to the old
castle she loved so well, leaving Miss Wal-
ton to her own reflections for the day. It
was royal weather and mother and baby enjoy-
ed the ride over the country road; it was the
first visit of young Edward to the home of
his mother, and though Lady Anna had not
much sentiment of this sort naturally, it
seemed to be developing in consequence of
her life experience. The old lodge keeper
fairly danced with delight when he saw the
elegant equipage of the Walton’s drive into
the shady lane, and for a few minutes all
was hilarity and excitement. Baby Ed-
ward was a boy to be proud of and his
name was sufficient to make these old re-
tainers almost worship him, for there is
something in the English blood, that warms
at the mention of its titled nobility. (even
though they may prove unworthy of the
honor.) Comments and remarks upon the
child’s looks and general appearance were
profuse and exceedingly complimentary,
but the summing up of it all was that he
was a real Hilliard and very like his
maternal grand father whose name he bore.
The Hilliard servants had no love for the
Waltons’ tho’ out of respect to Lady Anna
they never gossipped when she was by,
but the moment she was safe, in the draw-
ing room with her own party, they ex-
pressed their regrets in vehement terms
that ever a Hilliard should mix: with the
Walton’s whom Sir Edward so detested,
and had never forgiven, and the old, old
story was repeated and reiterated and the
participants strongly abused until the coach-
man coming in upon them chancing to
catch his master’s name inquired in bom-
bastic fashion whether “anybody there had
any word to say agin the Walton’s of
Walton Hall,” if so he was ready to show
who was the best man, and the conversation
was thus brought to a stand still, and the
question was asked of the new-comer how
long his mistress was likely to stay. “No-
body knows what she’s likely to do at any
time, she has it all her own way.”
	“Do you mean to insinuate,” said one of
the men, “that she is’nt an obedient wife?”
"O,about that’’ resumed the coachman, my
master lets her do just as she likes, she
pines and frets a great deal and he don’t
like a woman who weeps and is over sensi-
tive, he wants to be at races and hunts and
can’t have a woman watchin’ and follow-
n’ him, but she’s a queer one, can’t bear
society, he likes jolly women, Sir Edward’s
style you know,” that last remark saved
him, for remembering the idiosynracies of
their former master, and considering there
must be some arrangement made for Lady
Anna and her party, a messenger was sent
to ask what were her orders for the day..
The answer came, only some simple re-
freshments under the trees where she had
often sat in the days gone by, and that she
had already apprised her cousin Mrs. Bland
of her visit to the castle and was momen-
tarily expecting her. Mrs. Bland came and
baby too and the two ladies talked over
the present and speculated upon the future.
Lady Anna told her cousin oi the objections
raised by the Walton aunt, and cousin Jane
promised to lay the matter before the
Doctor and see how any difficulty could be
averted. Dr. Bland’s health, was slowly 
improving.


