[Column 2]
tionally well calculated for the place she so
ably fills.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall as chairman of
the Women's Congress of Representative
Women came next upon the platform.
Mrs. Sewall is better known to the people
here than either of the others because of her
connection with the Suffrage work in time 
past and being the President of the National
Council of Women of the United States.
We will only say here that she is one of 
the foremost women of the country. As
Chairman of this great Congress, she has
won new laurels of fame, and acquitted
herself so well in all places and at all
times as to give universal satisfaction, to
all parties interested; and this was no easy
task, 'but required the utmost tact, in-
genuity and diplomatic skill, and in each of
these exceptional qualifications Mrs. Sewall
excels as exemplified in her signal success at
the Congress. Mrs. Sewall is a woman of
fine proportions, somewhat majestic in
figure though not tall, a very striking face
and the most beautiful soft gray hair that
gracefully becomes her queenly style of
beauty. Mrs. Sewall's speeches are all
classical in style and she has much of the
dignity and finish of the European society
Woman.
	At her right hand and always on hand, 
was Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery the efficient
and thorough good Secretary of the National
Council. Her services in the Congress
were invaluable. She was it appeared every
where present, waiting and watching and
acting promptly, her work beforehand was
almost Herculean in matters pertaining to
the holding of the Congress, the invitations,
notifications, documents and arrangements
general and final. She has a wonderfully 
active brain and fine ability for executing
the work given her to do, or planning and
classifying. She is a slight figure has a
very intelligent face and particularly fine
eyes, though they are generally covered
with glasses. Mrs. Avery is quite mother-
ly though young. She is a sort of model
mother, one never forgets with all her pub-
lic work that she is the central figure in the
home as well, she carries the impression as
indelibly engraved upon her style and man-
ner as though it were written in her fore-
head.
	In the long list of illustrious names it
is hard to choose who shall follow next in 
order, there are many foreign as well as
American women whose deeds are worthy
of record in all lands, but to an American-
born woman the names of those whose feet
have trod rough places that those who came
after might enjoy the harvest of their plant
ing,are always first in our thoughts. Several
of these pioneers were present and their
faces were beautiful with age and ex-
perience, our readers are familiar with the
names and history of Susan B. Anthony,
Lucy Stone, Julia Ward Howe, Mary A.
Livermore, Caroline M. Severance, Isa-
bella Beecher Hooker and others well
known to fame. Elizabeth Cady Stanton
though expected did not come, but sent 
her paper which was read by Miss Anthony,
her life-long comrade. Mrs. Stanton was 
ably represented by her son Theodore Stan-
ton a fine specimen of manhood, who has
lived several years in Paris and has the
French maniere perfect. When we were
introduced to him Miss Anthony added,
"when I first knew his mother, Theodore
was the baby—now his hair is gray." He
read a fine paper in the Press Congress, of

[Column 3]
which he was a delegate from across the
waters.
	Coming to foreign women of celebrity,
perhaps Countess Aberdeen ranks first—
Lady Isabel Somerset who might share
this honor was not present. Lady Aber-
deen is a veritable Scotch woman, daughter 
of the First Lord Tweedmouth, born in the
Highlands, married when twenty, to John
Campbell, seventh Earl of Aberdeen.
Lady Aberdeen is an enthusiastic leader in
women's associations, she has organized
several, and is President of a number; dur-
ing the Woman's Congress she was elected
President of the International Council of
Women, which represents the organizations
of women of all lands; Lady Aberdeen is
a very magnetic public speaker, fluent and
comprehensive. One of the associations
organized by her called first "Hadda House
Association" outgrew its local limits and 
because of its wonderful national success
gained the significant name, "Onward and
Upward Association." It has a member-
ship of over nine thousand and publishes a
monthly magazine, Onward and Upward,
personally edited by the Countess of Aber-
deen herself. In addition to the public 
career of this famous woman she is said to 
have a delightful home life, four children
three boys and one girl; and a baby
daughter, Dorothy, having passed away
has caused the mother to more fully con-
secrate her life to philanthropic work. Her
husband and herself are conjointly interest-
ed in all philanthropic and progressive
movements. Madame Isabel Bogelot is a 
celebrated French woman widely known
for her able efforts in behalf of the op-
pressed women of her own dear France.
Madame Bogelot's address at the Congress
was a very able paper on the "Solidarity
of Human Interests." She is commissioner
for the woman section of the French ex-
hibition at the World's Fair under Madame
Carnot. She represented the National
Federation of the women of France at
the World's Congress. She is Vice-Presi-
dent of the Congress of Woman's Work
and Institutions of Paris.
	Madame Bogelot is intensely French in
manner and in sympathy, an indefatigable
worker full of love and helpfulness for the
unfortunate, which her countenance be-
speaks.
	Mrs. Laura Ormiston Chant of England
was one of the favorite speakers and is a 
very graceful and charming person.
Her gift of language is extraordinary, and
she speaks on any and all subjects with
great brilliancy. Mrs. Chant expects to
come West before long and hopes to visit
our City. She is one of the foremost work-
ers among women's organizations in Great
Britain and has been several times in
America. Mrs. Florence Fenwick Miller
is another captivating English woman.
Her style is decidedly lofty and she is a 
very handsome woman of the peculiarly
English type, with that beautiful pink and
white complexion no other climate seems 
to give.
	Mrs. Fenwick Miller gave a very inter-
esting paper in the Press Congress entitled
"Comradeship between Men and Women."
	Mrs. Ebba Nordqvist nee Baronesse
Alfthon of Finland was a very interesting
and bright young woman, her husband had
accompanied her to attend the Congress.
She informed us in conversation with her
that she had published a book which she
promised to send us. This young woman
was a Delegate from the "Unionen."


Among the brightest and most graceful
of the foreign women was one from Athens,
Greece, Callirhoe Parren, whose husband al-
so came with her.  These women from
abroad were most courteously received and
entertained everywhere.  One very popular 
indeed in the United States and a great
favorite here, Helena Modjeska a woman of
remarkable presence and very great force in
presenting her subject, spoke there upon
"The Endowed Theatre."
	There are many noble names among those
from foreign countries, titled people and
grand women they were, some of them
spoke English a little, others had to have an
interpreter.
	In our next we will tell our readers of
the beautiful Syrian woman from Arabia in
native costume, and of Josefa Humpal-
Zeman of Bohemia and of those noted wo-
men of Germany and Switzerland and of
different parts of Scandinavia.
	A sweet young woman who specially in-
terested the writer and for whom we form-
ed a very strong attachement was Miss
Margaret Windeyer of Australia, of which
we will tell you something in our next
issue of the paper as this article is already
very long and we must not overdo our pen
pictures of heroic women.


