	CHARRES EGBERT CRADDOCK (Miss
	JUNE 17 is the anniversary of the Battle
of Bunker Hill. It is commemorated far 
and wide with flags and bells and patriotic
eloquence. This is the celebration of a 
victory won long ago for the principle that
taxation without representation is tyranny.
No one has quite so good a right to rejoice
in the anniversary as those who are fight-
ing today for the application of the same
principle to women. At Montreal, they
show to visitors, among other curiosities
and trophies, a small cannon captured from
the Americans at the battle of Bunker Hill.
One American woman to whom it was ex-
hibited looked sharply at the official in 
charge and said, with spirit: “Well, you’ve
got the cannon, but I guess we’ve got the
hill!” The people who are cheering and 
firing guns in honor of June 17 have the 
cannon; but we have the principle, which 
is more eternal than the hills; and sooner or 
later, everybody will see it.— Woman's
Journal.

	THE death of Edwin Booth removes not 
only a great actor from the theatre of life,
but a distinguished figure from the few 
notable men and women who mark a coun-
try or an age with the stamp of their indi-
viduality. Mr. Booth represented not only 
his own success to the public, but the for-
tunes of his family, who have been to the 
American stage what the Kembles were in 
England. In both these illustrious names
shine virtues of public and private life. It
is claimed that genius is not hereditary,
and yet in the histrionic bent there is much
to disprove the claim. Edwin Booth walk-
ed the stage of daily living with much the
same melancholy which marked the gentle
prince Hamlet. With griefs which were
tragic indeed, the great actor hardly needed
to simulate the roles which gave him 
thunders of applause. His name is


indissolubly linked with all that is best in
dramatic art. "After life’s fitful fever he
sleeps well." 				ELITE.


EDEN.
ON a glorious Sabbath morning in the ages long
	ago,
In the most delightful garden ever warmed by
	summer’s glow,
Where the roses, pinks and lilies and the modest
	violet vied
With the graceful waving pampas and the dahlia’s
	stately pride.

Where stood trees all richly laden with fruits of
	every kind,
Where sweet aromatic odors floated softly on
	the wind,
That gently stirred the leaflets as the sunbeam’s
	shimmered through
Showing figs all ripe and luscious and the
	citrons dainty hue.

Not a weed was in the garden nought to mar the
	charming scene,
While rippling through its centre was a placid
	silvery stream
And birds of brighter plumage gaily flitted to
	and fro
Chirping twitting, sweet songs singing on that
	morning long ago.

In this paradise enchanting roamed a stalwart
	noble man
In the image of his Maker comprehend it if you
	can,
By his side a lovely woman for a helpmeet unto 
	him,
Not his slave nor yet his servant hum’ring every
	foolish whim.

Not his cook, O happy woman! it was theirs to
	pluck and eat,
Not his seamstress for their toilet nature’s garb
	made all complete,
But with him to hold dominion over every living
	thing,
On the earth, beneath the water, and the birds of
	varied wing.

Together they held possession of this highly
	favored land,
Together they stood and listened to the Father’s
	grave command,
Together received His blessing and the promise
	of His care
If they would try to serve Him and remember
	Him in prayer.

And together we must labor gentle woman, earn-
	est man,
For the lifting up of nations and restore the
	ancient plan 
And together have dominion and make this earth
	an Eden,
For know to make a perfect man, you must have
	Eve and Adam.
