MRS. CHARLOTTE EMERSON BROWN,
President  of  the  General   Federation  of
Women's Clubs,   was born  in  Andover,
Mass.,  in  1838.   She is the daughter of
Prof. Ralph Emerson, who was for twenty-
five years professor of ecclesiastical history
in the Andover Theological Seminary.   As
Miss Emerson manifested a decided  taste
for  the study  of  languages  in  her  early
youth, every possible advantage was given
her for  cultivation  in  this  direction,  and
after  years of study at home and in Ger-
many, Austria, France, Italy, Greece, Tur-
key, Egypt and Syria she became a teacher
of languages in a seminary at Rockford, Ill.
In 1879 Miss  Emerson married  Rev.  Wm.
B. Brown, D.  D., then  of  New York City,
and after a couple of years spent in Europe
returned  with  her  husband  to settle per-
manently  in  East  Orange,  N.  J.,  where
Mrs. Brown was soon elected president of
the Orange Woman's Clubs.    Mrs. Brown
entered heartily into the plan originated by
Mrs.  May  Wright Sewall of  Indianapolis
for  a  general federation  of  the woman’s
clubs  of the   United  States,  and  at  the
organization  convention was elected to the
presidency of the  new federation.    Fifty
clubs entered into the Federation  at  this
convention, and within two years over one
hundred  and  twenty   have been enrolled,
the number still increasing, until  it  now
promises to embrace every woman’s club of
importance in the country.    Mrs. Brown’s
mental ability and enthusiasm  in the work
render her a valuable assistant in the ranks
of those who labor for the increase of sym-
pathy  and improvement in   organization
amongst womankind, her many sidedness
peculiarly fitting her for such service. She
might say, after the style of  St. Paul, unto
the literary women I became literary that I
might gain the "literati;"  to them  that  are
in suffrage work as a suffragist that I might
gain them who are suffragists; to them who
are without politics,  as withont  politics
(being not without interest in public works,
but under a different name)  that I  might
gain them that are without politics.    I am
made all things to  all women that I might
by all means win some.              ELITE.


