SAN JUAN.

	MINUTES of the quarterly conference of
the Relief Society of San Juan Stake, held
at Mancos, Colorado Nov. 21st, 1892,
President Martha Hammond presiding.
After the usual exercises President Hani-
mond addressed the conference, felt that it
depended on ourselves whether we had a
good conference or not, wished each to of-
fer a silent prayer in behalf of the speakers,
that we might receive such instructions
as would be for our best good
	Counselor Delia Eyman, of Bluff Ward,
reported the society as being in a prosper-
ous condition, said the best of feelings pre-
vailed among the sisters.
	Counselor M. A. Perkins reported the
Monticella Society as doing well, though
few in numbers.
	President M. A. Dunton reported the
Mancos Relief Society as not being in a
very thriving condition, on account of the
scattered condition of the members; but
they felt like doing the best they could un-
der the circumstances.
	Counselor Mary Jones felt her weakness
in trying to instruct the sisters, said we
should be kind and forgiving, hoped we
would be able to retain and put in practice
the instructions we hear.
	Sister Jane S. Richards, Counselor to
President Zina D. H. Young, who in con-
nection with her husband, Apostle F. D.
Richards was in attendance at our Confer-
ence, then addressed the meeting in a very
able manner. Exhorted every sister to
have her name on the Relief Society roll,
and to meet together often, as we would be
greatly benefited thereby. Spoke of the
comparison which Sister Eliza R. Snow
often made, the heap of burning coals, when
you separate them they soon die out, and
when you want to rekindle them you have
to strike another match, comparing it with
the Relief Society holding meetings so
seldom, the members are apt to get cold
and die out, whereas if we meet together
often the sisters will be alive and energetic.
Felt to encourage the sisters in their labors
in this far off stake of Zion. Gave us many
good instructions on various subjects. Also
spoke of her trip to Washington to attend
the woman’s convention.
	Apostle F. D. Richards said he felt like
exhorting the sisters to attend meetings, for


we need the spirit of the Lord to be with
﻿us and the way to get and keep it is to at-
tend to our duties. Help take care of the
poor, no matter of what sect or color. Our
conduct should be such that all people will
honor and respect us, asked the Lord to
bless and prosper the sisters. Said that we
would not always be in the scattered con-
dition we were now, but our numbers
would increase and our stake be built up,
so that we wouldn’t be obliged to travel so
far to attend meetings as now, said some-
time we would have a temple built here.
Made many other good remarks,
	President F. A. Hammond hoped we
would be benefited by the good counsel
given. The general and local officers were
then sustained by the conference. President
Martha Hammond made a few closing re-
marks. Singing, benediction by Counselor
William Halls.
	The visit of Apostle and Sister Richards
was very much appreciated by the saints,
and we hope they will favor us again
sometime in the near future.
	On November 22nd, 1892, the Relief
Society of Mancos Ward was reorganized
and the following named sisters set apart to
act in their respective positions. Elnora
Hammond President, Sarah Burnham
and Mary Slade Counselors, Louie M.
White, Secretary; Emma L. Wilden
Treasurer.
		EVELYN ADAMS, Sec. pro tem.


