[column 2]
was then populated only by the disciples of
Brigham Young. Probably the most dis-
tinguished woman of the venerable party,
was Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, one of the
surviving widows of the leader of the
Mormons. To an immense gathering of
women she delivered a brief address in re-
gard to Utah and the women of the ter-
ritory. 
	The department congress of the National
Woman's Relief Society was held in hall
No. 7. The society's officers are Utah wo-
men. Its President is Mrs. Young; First 
Vice-President, Mrs. Jane S. Richards;
Second Vice-President, Mrs. Bathsheba W.
Smith; Third Vice-President, Mrs. Sarah
M. Kimball; Secretary, Mrs. Emmeline B.
Wells; Treasurer, Mrs. Mary Isabella
Horne. "Pioneer Women of Utah,"
covering the period of 1847-’48, was a
subject talked on by Mrs. Horne. She
talked of adventures and hardships in
reaching Utah in the early days by ox
teams, and told of the people's religion and
their relief work.
	Following her Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells
made a talk on “Western Women, Authors
and Journalists.’’ Considering the popula-
tion of the territory, the speaker said Utah
had more literary and musically inclined
women than any of the older settled States.
Brigham Young first encouraged women to
write for the Deseret News, a newspaper es-
tablished by the church 1850. The old
Mormon leader also founded a theatre, which
is still the leading play-house of Salt Lake
City, in order that women might improve
themselves in dramatic art. For years a
local stock company played in the house.
The speaker further referred to books that
have been written by both the women who
went to Utah and those who are natives of
the Territory.
	This was in line with a paper, "Amuse-
ments of the Early Days," read by Mrs.
Nellie Little of Salt Lake City. There
was no dearth of amusements, she con-
cluded, from the diversity of social enter-
tainments then extant. In substance she
said:
	Prior to 1870 Utah was an isolated region, des-
titute of railroads, and with but meagre means
of communication with other States and Terri-
tories. These conditions forced its people to
rely upon their own inventive genius for pleasure.
The mammoth celebrations and picnics of early
days are memorable occasions, and for unique
display and profuse decoration have never since
been eclipsed. The first of these was given in
1849 in the Old Bowery. Soul-inspiring music,
patriotic speeches,followed by a delightful repast,
were some of the agreeable features of the oc-
casion.
	The numerous attractions of the Wasatch lure
the occupants of the city to its delightful retreats.
The custom of camping out has become so uni-
versal, that the cities and towns during the sum-
mer months resemble Goldsmith’s "Deserted
Village."
	The drama has had a potent influence on so-
ciety. Its beneficial effect, in a literary sense, is
inestimable, The early Utonian drama is of
historical importance, as it characterizes the so-
cial condition of the people at that time. From
1860 to 1870 the Deseret Dramatic Association
had its triumphal reign. This decade is distin-
guished for its literary and artistic activity.
		DR CANNON’S ADDRESS.
	Another eminent woman, Dr. Martha
Hughes Cannon of Salt Lake City, de-
livered an address on “Types of Utah Wo-
men.” The presiding officer stated that
Mrs. Cannon was between the age of 16
and 21, when a printer on the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT. With her earnings at the
case she educated herself. Mrs. Cannon
said in part:
	The delegation from Utah represents two class-


