UTAH STAKE.

	MINUTES of Conference of the Relief
Society of Utah Stake, held in American
Fork, April 19th, 1893. Sister Mary John
presiding with her counselors.
Conference opened with singing and
prayer; reading of minutes of former con-
ference and also reports from the various
bronches throughout the county.
	Sister John, the first speaker, hoped the-
Spirit of God would be with us today, was
pleased with our reports and although many
thought it was tiresome to sit and hear them
read, it was but right to know how the
means was expended that was taken in by
the society; exhorted the sisters to faithful-
ness in their duties, said there were great
responsibilities resting on them as wives
and mothers, spoke of the liberality of the
sisters in giving for the needy etc.
	Sister Farrer knew the Lord was always
willing to hear our prayers, could testify
to the power of God in healing the sick etc.
	Sister Standring thought we had every-
thing to encourage us to go on in this work.
The Lord will honor his daughters as well
as his sons, gave a good report of Lehi
Society, they were a good band of sisters
willing and ready to care for the needy
whether of our faith or not, spoke of being
at the Temple at the dedication and of the
holy spirit that was manifested there, etc.
Sister Marilla M. Daniels thought in
changing our place of Conferences we would
become better acquainted with each other.
Spoke of the many blessings we had re-
ceived lately and reviewed some of Presi-
dent Woodruff’s teaching and of the peace
and love pervading every heart, spoke on
Temple work etc.
	Sister Till spoke a short time on the
silk industry, and conference adjourned
after singing and prayer until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon Session:—Opened with the
usual exercises. Sister John spoke on the
contingent fund; and also concerning the
incorporation, hoped all would understand
it, we are in a school and let us try to im-
prove, in all good works, bore a testimony
to the truth of this gospel etc.
	Singing, “How Glorious will be the
Morning.”
	Sister Billings felt it a privilege to meet
with the sisters of American Fork; although
we are strangers we are engaged in the
same work. We are more blessed than any
other people on this earth, we can work for
our dead and what a blessing it is; our dead

[Column 3]
are waiting to have a work done for
them etc.
	Sister Till make a few additional remarks
in regard to the silk industry.
	Sister Patten spoke on various subjects,
gave her experience in this church; also
spoke of the dedication of the Temple.
	Sister Agnes Farrer bore her testimony to
the truth of this work, the world has noth-
ing like it.
	Bishop Halliday made some very inter-
esting remarks and gave the sisters good
counsel and advice. Spoke on the dedica-
tion of the Temple and various subjects
pertaining to our salvation.
	Brother Bromley said he had always
found the Relief Society in accord with the
Priesthood. Spoke upon order, said
obedience was in reality the first law of
God.
	After a few more remarks from Sister
Marilla M. Daniels conference was adjourn-
ed for three months, singing “The Spirit
of God.” Benediction by C. Daniels.
CAROLINE DANIELS.
Secretary Relief Society, Utah Stake.

