thin board partitions, added to faulty
acoustic properties makes it impossible for
more than half the audience to hear dis-
tinctly. Washington and Columbus Hall
are the largest and supposed to seat 3500
people and give standing room to five hun-
dred more. It is usually filled, as are also
all the others, from thirteen to twenty-five
Congresses being held at the same time.
     Yesterday we went from one to another
of the Congresses, listening to Helen
Gardener in one room, Fannie Harley in
another and so on. Finally we drifted into
the Congress where an authors’ meeting
was being held. There I met a number of
friends, among them Mrs. Leila P. Roby of
Chicago, who writes under the nom de
plume of “Miles Standish,” and whose
mission in life seems to be to make other
people happy; and dear little Mrs. Lincoln
of Washington, (Bessie Beach.) Mrs. Roby
invited us to luncheon with her and the
Chicago Study Club invited us to a 6
o’clock dinner, served in the Art Building;
therefore much of the day was spent social-
ly.
     As a consequence, your correspondent
had to give a little after dinner talk and
found herself on the program to address
the Congress of the American Protective
Society of Authors in the evening. With
no opportunity for preparation you can
imagine the address was not exhaustive,
but it sufficed, and she ought to feel, I sup-
pose, that she has had the greatest honor of
her life.
     Mrs. E. D. E. N. Southworth was to
have been present, also Grace Greenwood,
but both were too ill to come, Emily Haw-
thorne, Kate Brownlee Sherwood and many
others were present and some of the address-
es were very fine, but we took no notes,
as the experience of being before the bat-
tery of so many opera glasses is not quiet-
ing to a novice.
     This morning we attended one of the
most interesting of the Congresses thus far,
to me, that of the Utah women, in the
National Woman’s Relief Society Congress.
Among the speakers were Madame Zina D.
H. Young wife of Brigham Young, or one
of the wives, who as President of the
society, made the opening remarks, although
my friend, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells widow
of President Daniel H. Wells, who died
three years ago, acted as chairman and in-
troduced the speakers—Mesdames Sarah M.
Kimball, and Jane S. Richards, wives of
Mormons high in the church, and Madame
Isabella Horne, one of the mothers in Zion.
She was one of those who were driven from
Nauvoo that dreadful winter of 1846 and
she told the story of their trials and priva-
tions, as through the ice, snow and rain
they made their weary journey across Iowa,
taking them three and one-half months to
accomplish. A child was born to Mrs.
Horne on the way.
     They found the Omaha Indians friendly
and they allowod them to build themselves
huts and make preparations for their farther

[Column 3]
journeying. They took with them, as they
started on the 14th of June toward Salt
Lake, a year and a half’s grain, also seed
grain. There were five hundred com-
panies, one hundred wagons in each com-
pany, and cattle, etc.
    They passed along meeting with un-
friendly Indians, when women and children 
had to help in their own defense, had
their cooking utensils stolen as they travel-
ed along the Platte river and through the
Black hills; until at last they arrived at
the Promised Land of Salt Lake valley,
the 6th day of October, 1847.
     Here upon a barren waste they pitched
their tents and began house building.
The most favorable winter ever known fol-
lowed, and they were able to plant in
February. They were 1000 miles east and
700 miles west of any supplies. But other
troubles came upon them, famine and
want, snakes crawled out of the ground and
mice by thousands and ate their clothing.
Fortunately one lady had a cat and that
aided them to get rid of the mice. Bugs
covered them coming out of the timber
from which their houses were built, which
it took years to subdue. They had no ir-
rigation and their grain crop was short.
They had no grease to make soap to wash
their clothing, no mills to grind their grain
into flour.  When the grain was nearly
ready for harvest, swarms of crickets came
upon it. Men, women and children turned
out to exterminate them but fortunately
myriads of gulls came in flocks and de-
voured the crickets before the grain was
destroyed. Then they had a grand jubilee,
a harvest home. Her husband gave fifty
cents for four potatoes the size of hickory
nuts. Rations had to be weighed out to
every one. Sugar was one dollar a pound.
To hear Mrs. Horne one could not but
think of the Bible story of the Hebrews
and their deliverance from the Egyptians.
The Mormons are apparently a most re-
ligious people and strict in religious ob-
servances, and what is more their faith in
their religion is marvelous.
     Zina Young Card, daughter of Brigham,
a very bright and comely woman spoke of
the children of Utah and told how they are
taught lessons of patriotism and purity.
     Nellie Little told of their amusements and
referred to the time when they were having
a celebration, singing patriotic songs and
listening to the reading of the Declaration
of Independence, news came to them that
U. S. troops were on the way to quell an
insurrection. The dance is their universal
amusement and the theatre.  They always
invoke the blessings of Deity at the begin-
ning and end of all entertainments. Brig-
ham was a great patron of the theatre, his 
name a monument of the drama.
     Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, a sweet faced
mother in Zion, spoke of the authors and
journalists in Utah, and the grain saving by
women. She said they had known what it 
was to be hungry, to hear their children cry
for bread, and they felt the grain must not
go out of the territory. They have 55,000
bushels stored now and will have more.
Women and children sometimes glean in


the fields for this purpose.   "If ever there
is a famine" she said "come to Zion."
	Dr. Mattie Hughes Cannon, a beautiful,
bright, young woman,  gave a wonderful
address  upon the  "Types  of  women  in
Utah."
	Before the session closed Mrs. Wells call-
led me to the platform and I went and sat
by Brigham Young's wife and took by the
hand each of those women with whom my
sympathy has been so  long, they knowing
(for Mrs.  Wells had  told  them  of me  in
Utah) that  I had  written  a  book  against
their institutions.
	Truly their forbearance and  kindness is
saint-like.   This one meeting was to me
worth coming to Chicago for.
	I hope  you  will  pardon  me  for  being
thus personal in my letter.
	And  now I have  said  nothing  of  the
Dormitory where we are stopping or of the
thousand and one other things that I would
like  to  write  of especially  the  reception
given by Mrs. Potter Palmer this afternoon
at  the  Woman's  building    on   the   Fair
ground,   where  were  present  the  Vice-
President  of  U. S.,  his wife, who  read  a
paper, the Duchess Veragua, direct descend-
ant of Columbus;  foreign delegates of all
nationalities, and all the great women and
some of the men who are  now in Chicago.
	The  Governor  of Illinois  made  a very
fine and powerful  suffrage speech  at  this
banquet,  I think  the  best I ever heard—
from a man.
	But with receptions, speeches and long
walks upon  the  ground,  I  am tired  and
must close.
	In my next  letter I  must speak  of  our
own handsome  Ohio  building   with  its
beautiful Cleveland room, furnished by Mr.
W. A. Otis  of Cleveland,  the decorations
and tapestries the hand work of Cleveland
ladies, and the luxury it is to feel we have
a home on  the  ground  where we   can  go
and rest.    Miss Lucy Stenniff from  Cleve-
land has charge of it  and she is very  well
fitted  for the  place,  being very  pleasant,
and entertaining all visitors delightfully.
