[Column 2]
the dead inland sea, all these gave the rude
materials to the writer and the poet. Then
when the dear old flag with its stars and
stripes was unfurled, and floated to the
breeze for the first time on Mexican soil
from the lofty pinnacle of Ensign peak,
the heart of the poet-patriot woman burst
into a song that immortalized the glorious
and significant event. It was the inspir-
ation of the Hebraic type of the woman of
the nineteenth century. From that time
the spirit of poesy, crude perchance, com-
pared with the finished songs and hymns of
those whose lives were cast in more pleas-
ant places,yet rich enough in rude imagery,
and true to life in that which touches the
depths of the human soul. And so it was
that woman made more endurable the
times of scarcity and privation, because the
germ of poesy, the divine sympathy with
nature in its wildest, its serenest and most
plaintive moods, found response in the
heart of women, whose prophetic inspira-
tion wove the stirring and pathetic themes
into song and story. The very wildness
and barrenness of the Rocky mountain
region forced from the lips and pen of the
poet the utterances that urged the people on,
and helped them to fulfil the simple duties
of everyday life as martial music inspires
the soldiers on the battlefield. The singers
were unconsciously interpreting the
thoughts of the weary pilgrims who were
opening up a great highway across the
American desert to the 'Golden Gate of the
Pacific sea, those songs many of them pub-
lished in volumes are here now in this great
city for the people who wish to know what
were the thoughts, the feelings and the
motives of these Western mothers, who
have reared a generation in the valleys of
the great basin.
One of the most inspiring themes and one
which no poet of the West has yet fully
interpreted is the wild, weird, solemn-sigh-
ing, sobbing, moaning wind as it sweeps
majestically (though unseen) with its tre-
mendous music and undertone of discordant
notes through the mountain fastnesses and
over the stupendous heights of those lofty
mountains of the Wasatch gorge. (range)
As soon as possible in 1850, two years
after our arrival in the valley, a newspaper
was published, and women contributed to
its columns, both prose and verse, but the
idea seemed to have spontaneous origin that
a woman's paper should be established and
on the first day of June, 1872, the first
copy of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, a semi-
monthly paper, was issued, which opened
a new avenue for women poets and writers
that has developed much talent all through
the twenty-one years of its publication.
This has given a fine opportunity for women
to express their views on  all subjects, and
has made a record of charitable, industrial,
and professional work among women in the
West, and of current matters and events of
importance that has been invaluable in our
woman's work for the Columbian Expo-
sition. A volume containing one copy of
each year's publications may be seen at the
World's Fair.
	Two volumes of poems by Eliza R. Snow
were published at an early date, and later, 
after her travels in the Holy Land, "Cor-
respondence of Palestine Tourists," also
books for children etc., nine volumes in all.
The poems of Sarah E. Carmichael, one
of our Utah girls have been so widely 
celebrated that William Cullen Bryant
selected from her effusions for his edition of

[Column 3]
poets of America. She also published her
poems in book form. Among the women
who have been fortunate enough to bring
out books of prose and verse are Augusta
Joyce Crocheron, born in Boston, but reared
in the West, who issued "Wild Flowers of
Deseret," "Representative women of
Deseret," and one book for children;
Hannah T. King, an English woman, born
in Cambridge, issued three, "Songs of the
Heart," "Seripture Women," and an Epic
Poem; Mary J. Tanner, "Fugitive Poems;"
Emily B. Spencer, from Connecticut, two
volumes of poems, and several others, of
which time fails one to tell. In 1889 a
magazine was established for young women,
edited by Susa Young Gates under the
auspices of the Young Ladies' Associations.
This also, in bound volumes, may be found
on exhibition in the Utah building at The
Fair grounds.
	I have only told you of a few things that 
have been done by Western women in
journalism and authorship. I could tell
you much more had I time, but it remains
for the future to reveal the magnificent
possibilities of song and story of the drama
and romance from the gifted pens of the
daughters of the valleys of the Rocky
mountain fastnesses which lie by the inland
sea.


