U. W. P. CLUB.

	A MEETING of the U. W. P. C. was held
at the office of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
May 31st, 1893. Phebe C. Young first
Vice President in the chair. Prayer by
Ella W. Hyde, roll called, showing a small-
er attendance than usual, attributable to
the departure of so many for the World’s
Fair in Chicago.
	A communication from the “Utah Feder-
ation of Clubs,” was read by the Secretary,
as was also the constitution of that club.
	Dr. E. R. Shipp, having recently return-
ed from Ann Arbor University, was invited
to give the club a verbal sketch of her ex-
perience while away. In compliance the
doctor spoke of the studies she had been


pursuing and of the great pleasure she had
experienced in studying the works of some
of the great authors, Shakespeare, Tenny-
son and others. She had learned to more
fully appreciate the great merit of these
writers. Spoke of the intellectual
atmosphere which surrounds one in Ann
Arbor. So free from vanity and the love of 
dress, observable in many other places.
The sociability and friendliness of the
people generally, no drunkenness to be seen,
and perfect safety in going out at any time
of the night, the comfortable convenient
homes, etc.
	Ruth M. Fox recited an original poem.
Little Ellis Shipp favored the club with a
recitation entitled “The Prarie Fire.”
Lydia D. Alder spoke a few words of her
pleasure in attending the club meetings
though she was not able to do what she
would like to do, on account of her delicate 
health.
	Doctor Shipp read an original poem ad-
dressed to Ruth M. Fox.
	Several of the members were in turn re- 
minded of interesting anecdotes told by, or 
of, some of the noted writers and speakers.
Lizzie S. Wilcox, by request, read a selec-
tion from the writings of Ella Wheeler
Wilcox. 
	After a social chat upon various interest- 
ing subjects pertaining to woman’s
organizations, and club work particularly,
the meeting was adjourned for one month.
	The program not having been carried
out as pre-arranged, was to be carried over
for the June meeting.
