								CHAPMAN.

	How necessary are good works to the
complete life of a Saint of God; the per-
formance of good works is something to be
desired: if our part in life be ever so low-
ly, our means of doing good for others over
so limited, with what we have in our charge
we may devote ourselves to accomplishing
some good work. If we extend to another
the comfort of loving words in the hours
of sorrow, of doubt, or temptation, we are
even in this sweet ministration doing 
deeds worthy to be engraven in the herald-
ry of good works. There are various ways
and means, by which the truly good may
earn the right to the inheritance which ac-
crues from good works. To bestow the
bounties of the earth upon the poor, is not
the greatest means of doing good works, it
is perhaps the easiest; to give without
thought, of what has been liberally dis-
bursed to us, deserves very little credit; but
to devise ways and means whereby the
poor may provide for themselves, and be- 
come happy through a competence in rec-
ompense for labor, is far more praiseworthy.
It is to some almost an ambition to be ac-
counted generous in giving, but the pru-
dent person who calculates the real benefit

[Column 2]
of a fellow-creature, will, by the ingenuity
of his brain and the magnanimity of
thought, look farther than the giving for
immediate succor, and thus perhaps invent
that which will provide labor and conse-
quently its equivalent in food for the many.
	Good works are great works in the truest
signification of the term. From the small-
est beginnings have the mightiest conse-
quences resulted. A few tiny drops of wa-
ter gush forth from the mountain side,
there has just been sufficient latent force to
propel them from the surface, they trickle
down the slope and are replenished by rain
and moisture in their course, and other
diminutive streams flow into the narrow
bed they have formed, and unite their cur-
rents together, accumulating more and
more as their path is ever onward, until
they stretch away into the vast distance
and become powerful in and of themselves,
and the great commerce of cities is borne
on their waters; thus controlling in part
the riches and substance of masses of peo-
ple; and in the final end of their course
mingling the mighty river of water with
the great abyss which holds the nations in
awe by the force of its might. Thus may
the good works of the Saints united togeth-
er, carry them into the great ocean of pow-
er, that will control the elements of life,
and establish the stupendous institutions
which are necessary to concentrate the ef-
forts of all man and womankind into one
grand and sublime purpose, blending and
harmonizing all their various powers and
attributes to make one glorious whole,
where every part and portion will assist in
forming a connecting link in the chain
which will eventually bind together all who
love God and do good works.
	We find many passages in the Holy Scrip-
tures certifying of the good works and in-
fluence of women as well as men. We are
all capable of doing good works; it is the
power of good deeds that makes one’s life
sublime. It matters not how lowly our
sphere, we make it noble by the manner in
which we live. We cannot be too particu-
lar how we order our lives. One of the 
Apostles in former days, in his exhortation
to the saints, said, “And let us consider one
another, to provoke unto love, and to good
works; not forsaking the assembling of our-
selves together.” By meeting togeth-
er and interchanging thoughts and ideas
we become in possession of a wider knowl- 
edge of human nature, and of the attributes,
powers and gifts of different persons, and
are enabled to understand what the causes
are of various individual peculiarities, and
thus our views are enlarged, our sympa-
thies increased to do good to our fellow-
creatures, and we are better prepared to
invest ourselves with that mantle of charity
which will make us more capable of living
by the golden rule of our Saviour, “Do un-
to others etc.”
	Good works, however humble, as surely
shed a sweet fragrance through the whole
life of a person, as does the violet perfume
the entire atmosphere which surrounds it.
What is it that comforts us in looking back?
It is the recollection of good deeds. It
is that we have ministered all in our power
to the welfare and true happiness of oth-
ers. These reflections are a solace in every
lonely hour.
	Let us cultivate that love which is exalt-
ing in its nature, which tends to strength-
en every good purpose. Seek to develop in
ourselves, and call out in those around us
the strong affections, out of which spring
earnest faith, which incites to good works
and heroic courage in the pathway of right;

[Column 3]
a steadfastness to withstand all temptations
to wrong-doing; these will promote the
growth of sterling integrity of character
and nobility of soul, that will enable us to
endure all the vicissi udes of life, and yet
retain the true womanly characteristics
which men are so afraid will be lost in
maintaining public positions, and institu-
tions for the higher development of wo-
man’s capabilities.
	Woman need lose none of her grace and
sweetness by making herself useful outside
the home circle, if she be sufficiently forti-
fied within. It will be too antagonistic to
her sensitive nature, to overstep the neces-
sary bounds, and go farther than duty 
prompts, for love of notoriety.
	The theory very generally conceded
places woman upon an equal footing with
man, that is, if man is stronger physically 
and mentally, woman has the advantage in
being morally and spiritually man's su-
perior.
	I had no idea of arguing equality of sex
in this article, but only to advocate good
works among women. This seems to be
an era of woman’s works, and everywhere
woman seems awakening to an interest in
all the prevailing subjects of the times. It
has been said by inspired men, that “there
will be more women saved than men,” and
their good works will be the means of their
salvation. Good works, according to the
Scriptures, is the object of our creation.
"For we are his workmanship created in
Christ Jesus unto good Works."
	Salt Lake City, April 9, 1877.


