LUCRETIA MOTT.

	Mrs. Mott has been spoken of as a
leading woman of the first century of the
Republic, but to our mind she is a leading
woman of the second, and of all the centur-
ies that are to follow. It is hard to say
where the influence of any person truly
great and good begins or ends. But it is
absolutely certain that long after younger
hands have grasped the fallen mantle, the
blessed influence which has been wrought
out in a noble life of self-abnegation, must
and does continue, through all time.
	LUCRETIA MOTT, the woman philanthrop-
ist, humanitarian, and Quaker preacher,
was born in the Island of Nantucket, Jan-
uary 3, 1793. Descended from the Cof-
fins and Macys on her father's side, and
of the Folgers on the mothe's, and through
them related to Dr. Franklin, she comes of
honorable and renowned ancestry.
	She said of herself that "she was brought
up to be useful in the family." In 1804
Mrs. Mott removed to Boston and studied
in the public and private schools there, and
subsequently she studied in the Friends
boarding-school in Duchess County, N. Y.
—becoming a teacher there when fifteen.
At eighteen, she married James Mott of
New York; removing to Philadelphia
where she has since resided, happy in the 
love, affection, and reverence of her daugh-
ter and son-in-law and their children. Her
husband died full of years and honors, in
1868.
	Regarding the work to which she has no-
bly devoted her life, Mrs. Mott has placed

[Column 2]

on record the following: "The unequal
condition of woman in society early im-
pressed my mind. Learning while at
school that the charge for the education of
girls was the same as that of boys, and
when they became teachers women received
but half as much as men for their services,
the injustice was so apparent that I resolved
to claim for myself all that an impartial
Creator had bestowed. At twenty-five,
surrounded by a little family and many
cares, I felt called to, and engaged in, the
ministry—receiving every encouragement.
Temperance Reform early engaged my at-
tention. The oppression of the working
classes by existing monopolies, and the low-
ness of wages, and I have attended many
meetings and heard their appeals with com-
passion, and a great desire for a radical
change in the system that makes the rich,
richer, and the poor poorer. The various
associations and communities tending to
a greater equality of condition have had
from me hearty God-speed." This noble
utterance none can doubt.
	To her labor in the cause of reform is
more attributable the uplifting of the
down-trodden and oppressed everywhere,
than to any other living woman.
	We visited Mrs. Mott in her own home
one day last week. The season of the year
was less propitious than it would have been
later—but we could easily understand how
charming and harmonious its associations
must be. The house, highly characteristic
of Quaker simplicity, has been modernized,
the new corresponding with the old. She
received us very kindly in the large com-
fortably furnished parlor, and after some
few minutes conversation with herself and
daughter, she invited us into her cosy lit-
tle sitting-room, sacred to her hours of read-
ing and writing and working. For the
busy hands and wonderful brain are never
idle. Indeed, in the matter of work this
venerable and beloved woman commends
by her example the lesson of industry to
every young girl who would achieve honor
and distinction. Wood fires are used in
the house which she frequently builds from
choice, deeming no occupation too humble
that is greatly done. Though at such an
advanced age, it must not be thought that
our venerable friend takes no interest in the
question of the day. Quite the contrary. Of
President Hayes' policy as now understood,
and of himself personally, she spoke with
much approbation—deprecating all efforts
to keep alive sectional feelings. We took
leave of her with much regret—tempered
with the fact that when the roses bloom
we hope to visit her again. Tender in
heart, guileless in soul, brilliant in intellect,
this wonderful woman still remains to us—
coming regularly into the city to Wednes-
day Meetings.
	Though now in her eighty-fifth year, she
is as keen of comprehension, as strong men-
tally, as in her earlier working days, the
central thought of an appreciative circle.
	Martha Coffin Wright, her sister who is
also known as a philanthropist and reform-
er, says of her: "The striking traits of Lu-
cretia's character are remarkable energy
that defies even time, unswerving conscien-
tiousness, and all those characteristics that
are summed up in the few words, "Love to
man and love to God. Mrs. Soule says:
"Birth made Victoria a queen, but her own
pure, sweet life makes Lucretia Mott a
queen—queen of a realm on which the sun
never sets—the realm of humanity. if ev-
er any woman ever 'inherited the earth' it
is this blessed Quaker woman." The treat-
ment received by the delegates to the con-


vention in 1840, in London, declared Mrs.
Mott, "brought the woman question more
into view, and an increase of interest in the
subject was the result. In this work I have
engaged heart and hand, as my labors,
travels, and public discourses evince. The
misrepresentation, ridicule and abuse heap-
ed upon this, as well as other reforms, do
not in the least deter me from my duty.
To those whose name is cast out as evil for
the truth's sake, it is a small thing to be
judged of man's judgment."—Woman's
Words.


