HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE received the pamphlet published
by A. M. Musser, and O. F. Whitney, in Col-
umbia, Pa. on Mormonism and particularly
explaining the principle of Plural Marriage.
We would recommend it as valuable to the
reading public of Utah as it brings many good,
and wholesome arguments in favor of that pe-
culiar institution of Marriage.
	MRS. M. E. Randall had a juvenile enter-
tainment in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms,
Thursday and Friday evenings called The
Floral and Little Old Woman's Concert, Her
pupils who were all quite young did credit to
themselves and their training. The princi-
pal feature was the Zephyrs, which consisted
of thirty pupils, all at once chanting forth the
Lord's prayer.
	WE ARE pleased to be able to announce to
the public that the Treatise on Silk Raising is
now ready for sale. It gives those who desire
instructions, from the formation of the eggs,
through all the various stages to the
spinning of cocoons. It describes minutely
all the particulars, and the information has
been collected from the most reliable sources,
and practical experience of persons engaged in
sericulture. The Deseret Silk Association have
compiled this pamphlet very carefully for the
benefit of those who are uninformed in these
matters, and every item has been carefully ar-
ranged. We recommend it as invaluable, for
it contains the real and positive facts briefly
stated and adapted for use. All Relief So-
cieties should supply themselves with a suffi-
cient number, as they now have the special
mission of silk-raising by unanimous vote of
the General Conference. The pamphlets on
Silk Culture are for sale at the Woman's Com-
mission House. price ten cents each.
	It is now clearly demonstated that a superior
quality of silk can be made of the elements of
Utah. We were shown specimens of the most
excellent quality and colors of skein and floss


[Column 1]

silk, spun and colored by Miss Rockwood of
this city. Mrs. Robinson of Farmington is
now weaving very elegant dress silk. The
loom for weaving ribbons is nearly completed
at Bountiful and Mrs. Wadoup of that place
understands the weaving of ribbons in the
hand loom. There are many ribbon-weavers
here from Europe but most of them have been
accustomed to the machinery run by steam,
which has not yet been introduced here.
	Mrs. Susan Stringam and Miss M. A. Rock-
wood, 13 Ward are prepared to take pupils and
teach them the art of reeling the silk from the
cocoons, at $l0,00 apiece. Persons who are in-
tending to commence raising silk, would do
well to take advantage of this oppprtunity.
	AMONG THE home manufactures, we are
pleased to announce many useful chemical ar-
ticles for domestic use by R. Matthews & Co.
Every article used by them in manufacturing,
is subjected to chemical examination by Prof.
J. L. Barfoot and prepared under his direction.
They have the Bath Sand Tablet which we can
recommend as cleansing, and can be used with-
out injuring the most sensitive skin. Baby,
Toilet and Shaving soap of superior qualities,
also scouring-soap for woodwork and all house-
hold purposes. They also manufacture the Es-
sence of Jamaca Ginger and other essences,
which have been tested by many as equal
to any manufactured elsewhere. Writing fluid,
and boot-blacking of excellent quality and free
from adulterations, also waterproof paste which
by applying to boots and shoes, wet feet
may be prevented and render the leather more
pliable and endurable.
	It is to the best interest of the Latter-day
Saints to patronize all home manufactures.
	We would recommend the Relief Societies
to form Clubs and send to the Woman's Com-
mission House of this city, and get the above
articles at wholesale rates.
	THE WOMAN'S Commission House, estab-
lished in this city under the auspices of the
Relief Society, and called the Relief Society
Woman's Mercantile Association, is now doing
business in all the departments of dry goods
home productions. This enterprise has requir-
ed a great amount of indomitable energy and
perseverance on the part of those who have
been active and efficient workers in the cause;
and the sisters of the Relief Society through-
out the entire city and its vicinity should not
forget to whom they are indebted for the suc-
cess of the institution thus far. It is still in
its infancy, scarcely six months since it was
established, and it needs the practical suoport
of the people, to ensure its future success. We
sincerely hope the presidents and officers of
Relief Societies will bear in mind that this in-
stitution represents their interests; and do
whatever is in their power to sustain it, and
those who devote their time solely for the pub-
lic good without renumeration. Complaints
have been made by women in times past, that
there was no place where home made work
could be offered for sale, and fairly represented;
now let the sisters be earnest in sustaining a
place where all have equal opportunity to dis-
pose of such articles.
	SILK ASSOCIATION.—The Deseret Silk Asso-
ciation met persuant to adjournment Friday,
Apr. 2, at the Firemen's Hall.
	Mr. P. A. Schettler in the chair.
	Mr. P. A- Schettler said the season was fast
approaching for commencing to raise silk
worms, and by present appearances we would
have to begin much earlier this season than
usual, as the trees were already budding out.
He thought the interest in silk culture was

[Column 2]

progressing, as there were a great many mak-
ing inquiries and planting out trees. He had
had confidence that silk could be raised here
for many years, and now it was demonstrated
beyond a doubt, that it not only could be raised
here, but could be manufactured. He strongly
urged that the people plant out trees as that
was one of the most essential points. He said
our prospects were good for getting machinery
for spinning and twisting, and reported that
the Treatise on silk raising was ready and could
be got by applying at the Woman's Store, Old
Constitution Buildings, or of the Secretary,
second house east of Fireman's Hall. They
are ten cents per copy.
	Mr. Smith, of Bountiful, said he advised all
that could to plant out trees and cuttings. The
time would come when the people would wish
that they had planted out mulberry trees.
Silk raising and manufacture would yet form
one of the greatest sources of wealth to this
community and give many people employ-
ment. We ought to encourage our children
in it and by so doing we would be teaching
them something useful, instead of their being
left to wander about the streets in idleness.
He had planted out from five to six hundred
cuttings.
	Mrs. White of Mill Creek, said that her
daughter was learning to reel silk. She had
planted out a quantity of cuttings and was
going to plant out some trees.
	Mrs. Morgan of Mill Creek, was going to try
and raise some silk worms this season.
	Very interesting and encouraging remarks
were made by Mrs. Smith, Mrs. Higgs, Mrs.
Hardy and others, and all felt encouraged to
do their parts.
	Mr. Schettler said that to those who had
children who wished to try and raise some
worms he would give some eggs in small quan-
tities.
	Meeting adjourned until the first Friday in
May at this place, at 3 p. m.
	R. SIMPSON, Secretary


