	PARIS, BEAR LAKE Co., Feb. 18, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	I am happy to say that our Relief Society
is in a flourishing condition and a good
spirit prevails both in it, and also among
the people in general; there is a great im-
provement here among the young. The
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association
is exceedingly prosperous, they hold their
meetings once in two weeks, and manifest
a deep interest in trying to aid and assist
in obeying the counsel of those that are
placed to preside over them. Our Young
Men's Mutual Improvement Association is
also doing well, and a spirit of improve-
ment prevails among the rising generation.
The winter has been very mild with but
very little snow, but we have had consider-
able sickness mostly among the children,
but with good care and the skillful treat-
ment of Mrs. Emeline Rich and others, and
the faith and prayers of the faithful but few
have died. Our Society takes deep interest
in saving up grain, we think it a subject of
vital importance, and although we live in a
climate that is subject to early frosts, and
many have to buy their breadstuff from
year to year and bring it from other settle-
ments, yet we feel a determination to do
what we can to obey the voice of the good
shepherd, knowing that the Lord will not
command His people to do anything that
they cannot perform. It is through obedi-
ence we realize the greatest blessings. Let
us be wise and do all that is required of us,
that we may be prepared for every coming
event, for we know that the nations of the
earth are ripening for destruction, and the
time is near at hand when God will pour
out His judgments upon them with famine
and pestilence. Not only do we hear of war
in foreign lands, but also in our boasted land
of liberty they are divided, and the time
is near at hand when he that will not take
up his sword against his neighbor must
needs flee to Zion for safety. Then let us
be wise and prepared for these things, that
we may be counted wise stewards and be
found with oil in our lamps and numbered
among the wise virgins.
	The EXPONENT is read with deep inter-
est, and is a great advantage to us in this
isolated place, and although we cannot have
the society of our sisters that are visiting
the different settlements, yet we feel the in-
fluence of their good counsel through the
EXPONENT; but we live in hopes when
spring dawns upon us we shall be favored
with a visit from some of our worthy sis-
ters from Salt Lake.
	Praying for your success in the good
work in which you are engaged, I remain
as ever your sister in the Gospel of peace.
			MRS. JULIA P. LINDSAY.
						Pres't.  R. S.

[Column 3]
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On the 19th of March the good people of
Ephraim had a visit from Bro. W. G.
Young, and his kinsman, John Young Jun.
son of John Young Sen. deceased, also Elders
James Works of Manti, and Reuben Alred
of Spring City. A meeting was held at
the sisters Hall at two o'clock, p. m., when
Bro. W. G. Young addressed the assem-
bly and gave many valuable instructions
both to young and old. He particularly
cautioned the young sisters against going
away from home, said they had much bet-
ter stay at home and wear home-spun and
wooden shoes. Counseled the brethren of
whom a number were present, to be ener-
getic in giving to their dwellings a more
home-like appearance. He dwelt earnestly
upon teaching children to speak the truth
at all times. Bro. Works also addressed the
meeting, spoke in a very interesting and
instructive manner, both of the past and of
the future. Bishop Petersen made a few
closing remarks, bore testimony that the
sisters had been a great help to the Bish-
ops; also of their willingness in responding
to the calls made upon them at all times.
At the close of the meeting, Sister Peter-
se[-], our President, called for a vote of
thanks to be given to the brethren, which
met with a hearty response from all.
	With best wishes for your happiness and
the success of the EXPONENT, I am your
sister, Respectfully,
			AGNES S. ARMSTRONG,
								Sec'y.

