WOMAN’S WISDOM AND VIRTUE.

 Mr. Ruskin, in a recent lecture, thus
spoke of woman, as illustrated by the hero-
ines of Shakespeare:
   “The catastrophe of every play is caused
always by the folly or fault of man; the re-
demption, if there be any, is by the wis-
dom and virtue of a woman, and failing
that, there is none. The catastrophe of
King Lear is owing to his own want of
judgment, his impatient vanity, his misun-
derstanding of his children; the virtue of
his one true daughter would have saved
him from all the injuries of the others, if
he had not cast her away from him; as it is,
she all but saves him.
  “Of Othello, I need not trace the tale;
nor the one weakness of his so mighty
love; nor the inferiority of his perceptive
intellect to that even of the second woman
character in the play, the Emilia who dies
in wild testimony against his error: 'Oh,
murderous coxcomb! What should such a
fool do with so good a wife?' In Romeo
and Juliet, the wise and entirely brave
stratagem of the wife is brought to ruinous
issue by the reckless impatience of her hus-
band. In 'Winter's Tale,' and 'Cymbeline,’
the happiness and existence of two princely
households lost through long years, and


imperiled to the death by the folly and ob-
stinacy of the husbands, and redeemed at
last by the queenly patience and wisdom of
the wives. In Measure for Measure,' the
injustice of the judges, and the corrupt
cowardice of the brother, are opposed to
the victorious truth and adamantine purity
of a woman.
	In 'Coriolanus,' the mothers' counsel act-
ed upon in time, would have saved her son
from all evil; his momentary forgetfulness
of it is his ruin; her prayer, at last granted,
saves him—not indeed, from death, but
from the curse of living, as the destroyer
of his country. And what shall I say of
Julia, constant against the fickleness of a
lover, who is a mere wicked child; of He-
lena, against the petulance and insult of a
careless youth; of the patience of Hero,
the passion of Beatrice, and the calmly devo-
ted wisdom of the "unlessoned girl,' who ap-
pears among the helplessness, the blindness,
and the vindicitive passions of men, as a
gentle angel, to save merely by her pres-
ence, and defeat the worst intensities of
crime by her smile?
	Observe, further, among all the principal
figures in Shakespeare's plays, there is only
one weak woman—Ophelia; and it is be-
cause she fails Hamlet at the critical mo-
ment, and is not and cannot in her nature
be, a guide to him when he needs her most;
from that all the bitter catastrophe follows.
Finally, though there are three wicked wo-
men among the principal figures—Lady
Macbeth, Regan, and Goneril, they are left
at once to be frightful exceptions to the or-
dinary laws of life; fatal in their influence
also in proportion to the power for good
which they have abandoned. Such, in
broad light, is Shakespeare's testimony to
the position and character of woman in hu-
man life. He represents them as infallibly
faithful and wise counselors, incorruptibly
just and pure examples—strong always to
sanctify, even when they cannot save."—
Pulpit of the Day.


