EDITOR EXPONENT;
	The Young Ladies Retrenchment Asso-
ciation of the 16th ward, S. L. City, held
their third Annual Meeting Jan. 24, 1877.
Miss E. R. Suow, Mrs. P Woodruff, Mrs.


B. W. Smith, Mrs. E. Howard, and Mrs.
M. P. Young addressed the meeting, most
of them remarked that they had met with
us at our organization, and previous annu-
al meetings, and noticed the progress the
young ladies had made; spoke upon the
principles of Celestial Marriage, Word of
Wisdom, and Retrenchment and urged up-
on the young ladies the necessity of trying
to bring about a reform among their asso-
ciates and of shunning the company of in-
temperate, profligate men; spoke of the
evils of round dancing, and extrava-
gance in dress; gave much good and wise
counsel and instruction and bore faithful
testimonies to the work of God.
	Bishop F. Kesler remarked he was glad
the Bishops had helps, it was good to have
these Associations, for missionaries are
needed at home. Said we should do all we
could to stem the downward course of the
youth, and should be careful in the teaching
of our children. Alluded to the calamities
that are coming on the earth, and the rev-
elations of God concerning the redemption
of the living and the dead; and how to pu-
rify our tabernacles by shunning those
things which are forbidden. Said that Sis-
ter Snow and others were doing a good
work and they would have their reward;
gave other valuable instructions and prayed
God to bless both young and old in the name
of Jesus.
	President Miss Mary Williams then invi-
ted all the young ladies present who were
not members to meet with us and join our
society. Our meetings are held every Tues-
day at one o'clock.
	Meeting then adjourned, after which all
the officers and members, and the visitors
named above, the officers of the Relief So-
ciety, and some others, repaired to the res-
idence of Mrs. M. J. Thompson where a ta-
ble was spread with refreshments. Miss E.
R. Snow then blessed the Young Ladies
Association of this Ward and prayed that
they might prosper.
	Wishing prosperity to the Woman's pa-
per, and all other enterprises for the good
of Zion; we subscribe ourselves, your sis-
ters.
	MARY WILLIAMS, Pres't.
