PREJUDICE.

	There is every day ample opportunity to 
observe the manifold evils arising from
prejudice. How often do some of us allow
ourselves to speak evil or slanderous things
of those who have proved themselves
friends in the truest sense. We are too will-
ing to believe evil of our fellow beings; and
by hearing one who is bitter against anoth-
other, and has allowed prejudice to mis-
lead judgment, slander them, we fancy the
persons to be really as they were represent-
ed, and unfit associates for us, willing to be-
lieve without trying to find out the real
truth for ourselves; thus often wrongfully
prejudiced, keeping at a distance those
who are misrepresented, and committing a
grievous sin before God who has said
"judge not lest ye be judged;" How very
careful we should be never to say a word to
injure the character of any person. We
may do more harm in a moment by utter-
ing something which in reality has no
foundation, than we can atone for in a life
time. A thorough investigation should be
gone through before we are prepared to
give our opinion, and then we should be
careful in regard to speaking upon any prin-
ciple; no matter how objectionable others
may find it, we are not capable of declaring
its errors simply because others do not ad-
mire it, or cannot comprehend it. Who
have been the persecutors of the Latter-day
Saints? Not those who with unbiased
minds have studied the principles revealed
in our holy religion; if unwilling to believe,
at least they would cease to try to injure.
Our real enemies are those who through
prejudice at first have allowed their hearts
to become embittered, and perhaps aided by
a wicked disposition they were willing to
rush blindfold, not caring how much in-
justice was done by their words and acts.
While the people of the world are filled with
prejudice, should not we as saints strive to
overcome this narrow mindedness. I have
heard the remark that in days gone by,
every man was called a gentleman until
proved a rogue, but now-a-days it would
seem as if all were considered rogues until
proved to be gentlemen. We should try to
be ever just. We had better by far say
more good than deserved, than more evil
than is true. Let us guard our own
tongues, discipline our own thoughts, see
that our hearts are free from impurity, and
we will have no time to encourage evil or
listen to slander.
					MARY STUART.
	Hyde Park, March 14, 1877.


