			AND PRESENT.

	When on the Island of Tupuai, South
Pacific Ocean, a boy was given me, when an
infant one year old. His father, a brilliant
young man, native of New York, was a
missionary companion of my husband, Eld-
er Addison Pratt. Having remained there
for several years, he married a native wo-
man from the Chain Island group; the issue
was three sons, one of which we, (my hus-
band and myself) adopted. We brought
him over the seas when he was two years
old, in 1852. In 1858 I brought him to
Utah. He was a smart, bright, boy, and I
took pride in teaching him. He remained
with me till he was sixteen, his father be-
ing absent most of the time. He then left
me without permission, and went with a
freighter to Montana. Through various
vicissitudes, he became an express rider.
On one of his trips, in 1870, he was cap-
tured by the Black Foot Indians, robbed of
the mail, stripped of all his clothes, and
left seventy miles from any habitation. He
managed to reach Ft. Hawley almost frozen
and starved; after recuperating he was in-
duced to ingage in the same business, which
he followed one year longer, and was then
captured by the Sioux Indians; he was kept
two years confined to one lodge; but after
that had more priviliges granted him; he
became so accustomed to their habits, and
not being cruelly treated, felt disposed to
remain with them until circumstances
should render it practicable for him to
make his escape. In the meantime apply-
ing himself with all diligence to study
their character, their methods of warfare,
and to know every inch of their country;
thinking that in some future day his knowl-
edge would be of service to himself and he
of service to his country. It was not until
1875 that he found an opportunity to es-

[Column 2]
cape, having been five years the protege of
the famous "Sitting Bull." We named
him "Ephraim Pratt," while away he took
the name of his real father Frank Grou-
ard; he went to a military station, and
was immediately appropriated by General
Crook; as guide and scout in his command.
His father, Mr. B. F. Grouard, seeing his
name in the papers wrote to him to ascer-
tain who he was. The mystery was then
solved he was found to be my long lost boy;
lost to me ten years. I had followed him
with my prayers, and thankful was I that
in his childhood I had taught him to be-
lieve in God and pray to Him. I address-
ed a letter to Fort Fetterman, and received
in return one of the most pathetic, penitent
and impressive letters I ever read; giving
me an account of his adventures and suffer-
ings, imploring in a most humble manner,
forgiveness for leaving me abruptly, and
saying "how dearly he had paid for his
waywardness and disobedience in leaving
so good a mother, who was always kind and
used every means to make him a good man."
The family and neighbors were excited and
moved to tears when the letter was read;
his photograph was sent, as natural as life;
a well-dressed gentleman, no look of an In-
dian about him, it is to us almost like the
resurrection of the dead. The reporters
write every thing in his praise, as a "first
class cabinet officer," "chief of the northern
scouts, braver than any Sioux," etc. His
ready brain and hands are said to be "prac-
tically invaluable." One thing which inter-
ests us very much is that he has found a
white girl among the Sioux, and from the
description given we are greatly in hopes it
is Bro. Thurstons child, stolen from Cache
Valley in 1867, and grand daughter of EId-
er Erastus Snow. My son described her in
his letter as a pale, delicate girl, apparently
about sixteen years old; the Indians are
kind to her, they keep her making bead-
work; she knows not a word of English."
He farther says, "I have twice tried to cap-
ture her, but did not succeed, I think I
shall yet accomplish it."
	I have written to Bro. Snow and received
in return his heartfelt acknowledgement;
promising his faith and prayers; and his ad-
vice to the young man was that he would
advise him to attempt nothing so hazard-
ous as her capture would be, only in the fear
of God, and by so doing, and acting with
great caution, he feels he would be sure of
success. I copied the letter and sent it to
my son. I feel to pray most earnestly that
such an event may transpire, and the dear
one, whoever she may be, restored to her
yearning parents if they still live, and most
certainly the complication of these peculiar
circumstances would constrain us to ac-
knowledge a Divine Providence in the
whole transaction, and to thank our Heaven-
ly Father for His all-preserving care. I ex-
pect my son soon to visit me.
						L. B. PRATT.
	Beaver, March 31st, 1877.


WE shall find difficulties in all great en-
terprises; if we are sure we have begun
them from God we may securely cast all
events upon his providence, which knows
how to dispose and how to end them.


