FROM LANCASTER CITY, PA.
 It will not be my lot to record the adven-
tures of a Sinbad, a Gulliver, a Goldsmith,
nor a Humboldt; for though in a strange
country, to me, and possessed of one of
those far reaching imaginations with which
Shakespeare invests "lunatics, lovers and
poets," my conscience is not so elastic, nor
the field of observation so extraordinary, as
to permit me to startle you either by fact
or fiction. I may however tell a little of
what I see and hear during my travels, and
the relation will serve to inform the minds
of those who have never been in this sec-
tion of our country, and to refresh the
memories of all who have seen for them-
selves. In the city of Lancaster stands a
monument, a noble and imposing column of
R. I. granite, inscribed with the names of
the principal battles fought during the Re-
bellion, and surmounted by an image of the
goddess of liberty, holding a shield and a
drawn sword; it stands on a foundation
about two feet high, and at each of the four
corners is placed on a pedestal a statue, rep-
resenting respectively, the navy, infantry,
cavalry and artillery. The whole is sur-
rounded by an iron picket fence, and com-
memorates the achievements of the soldiers
of Pennsylvania during the late war.
	In the Woodward Hill Cemetery, also
sleeps the mortal remains of James Buchan-
an, the 15th President of the United States.
The man who would have exterminated a
whole people, is himself the inmate  of a
narrow chamber in the halls of death, while
that same people under the same leader-
ship as then, have grown still greater, and
stand to-day as an indisputable assurance
to all, that truth and justice will eventually
triumph in spite of anything on earth.
Here also is the tomb of Thaddeus Stevens,
the great Equal Rights man, buried in a
cemetery founded by Martin Shriener. On
his tomb is the following inscription: “I re-
pose in this quiet, secluded spot, not from
any natural preference for solitude, but find-
ing other cemeteries limited as to race, by
charter rules, I have chosen this that I
might illustrate in my death, the principles
which I advocated through a long life--
Equality of man before his Creator.” These
men's characters furnish us a contrast in
life and death, which is a good lesson on
human nature.
	This city numbers in population 27,000,
and presents on the main streets a brisk and
business like appearance; the streets and
alleys, as is common in the east, are rather
contracted, but are relieved by many fine
buildings which adorn each side and attract
the attention of all who admire architec-
ture.
 The penitentiary awoke my interest, not
from any sympathy I feel for places of that
character, but from the peculiar and antique
design on which it is built. Its ponderous
piles of masonry, castellated front, towers
and turrets, perforated with narrow iron
barred windows, forcibly suggest the me-
daeval and lance breaing ages of the past,
and the strongholds of the notorious Rob-
ber Counts of Germany.
 Pennsylvania, or this portion of it, in the
summer time, unquestionably, presents a
beautiful picture; the nature of the coun-
try, with its farms, orchards, woods, hills,
and rustic byways and turnpikes, show
that the milder seasons will clothe it in pic-
turesque loveliness and grandeur.
 In this county is found the Gap Nickel
Mine, the only one of that kind being
worked in the United States.
 Luzerne Co. differs considerably from
this region. There are located the great
coal mines which, with the iron ones, con-
tribute principally to the wealth of the
State, and to the needs of the surrounding
country. As is quite natural, everything
there is of a less romantic order, and more
crude and matter of fact; though the Lack-
awanna Valley, with the broad Susquehanna
sweeping through it, under a summer sky,
might vie with the older and more fertile
display of scenery.
 Nearly all the laboring classes are miners,
and many, from the frequent periods of
compulsory idleness, consequent to the fluc-
tuations of the market, the low wages, and
high prices of provisions, are reduced to the
depths of poverty.
 The mines and railroads are controlled by
the rich, who scruple not to use the power
in their hands, often, for the oppression of
the poor.
 It is a consolation to know that God
is no respecter of persons, and that the
time is close at hand when all will be
judged, when "many that are first shall be
last, and the last shall be first."
I heard it stated that the coal indications
in Luzerne Co. showed enough of that arti-
cle to last a population of 50,000,000–60,000
years. It is the anthracite quality, and
much superior to that found in Utah.
 A pleasing characteristic of the society in
the country towns, is that freedom and
courtesy to strangers, so common in the
west. Every one you meet salutes you
with a pleasant good morning, or, good eve-
ning, though you may never have met be-
fore. The major portion of this communi-
ty is of German birth or descent; they are,
as a rule, good, reliable citizens, and vote
the Republican ticket. The memory of
Gen. Lee's raids, during the war, has not
entirely died away.
	No more at present,
			Yours respectfully,
							O. F. W.


[Column 1]

