			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment meetings in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
grow more and more interesting, and it is
observable that the Junior societies are fast
gaining in knowledge and understanding
of spiritual gifts, blessings and attainments.
The meeting on Satuaday, March 17, was
crowded to overflowing; the Spirit of God
seemed poured out in rich abundance. The
sisters who addressed the meeting dwelt
most particularly upon home industries
among women. Among the speakers were
President Mrs. M. I. Horne, Counselors
Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs, E. Howard, and
Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. E. S. Barney and
many in the congregation who bore faithful
testimonies of the Latter-day Work. Mrs.
E. A. Whitney sang a Song of Zion, and
gladdened every heart in the assembly.
	On Saturday, March 31, the General
Meeting was not quite so full as usnal,
owing to the inclemency of the weather.
Pres. Mrs. M. I. Horne addressed the sis-
ters upon the duties and obligations of
mothers which rested upon them in caring
for their families, spoke upon the preserva-
tion of health and the care of children; of
home industries, and of sustaining home
institutions, that the saints might have some
resources when Babylon should fall. Coun-
selor Mrs. B. W. Smith spoke upon the sub-
jects appropriate to the times, and exhort-
ed the sisters to greater diligence. Mrs.
E. S. Barney spoke about silk-culture, the
planting out of mulberry trees, the home
manufactures of Matthews & Co. Mrs. M.
E. Watmough, Mrs. W. East and others
spoke very earnestly and impressively on
the principles of the Latter-day work.
Mrs. E. B. Wells read a paragraph from the
Book of Doctrines and Covenants, expressed
herself in regard to some particular points
of the Gospel as understood and practised
by the saints, allnded to the great work be-
ing done by the Women of Utah, under
the several organizations which exlst.

			OGDEN, March 21st, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Annual meeting of the Relief Socie-
ty, which should have been held Dec. 16,
1876, was postponed until March 13, owing
to sickness caused by the Small pox, which
made many sad and sorrowful hearts, and
I trust through it we have been learned
to place a greater reliance upon our Heav-
enly Father, "who doeth all things well,"
and may we as Latter-day Saints ever be
ready and willing to put our trust in God.
	At our meeting of March 13th, we were
much pleased and gratified with the pleas-
ure of having Miss Eliza R. Snow and Mrs.
Zina D. Young with us. Meeting was con-
ducted by President Mrs. Jane S. Richards.
The Secretary read the minntes and finan-
cial report of the society.
	Miss E. R. Snow spoke in her usual unas-
suming manner, showing us that being of
the blood of Abraham, we were lawful
heirs to all the blessings promised to his
seed; that we had been gathered out from
the world, but what would it profit us
if we did not live up to what we had re-
ceived, as we were to be judged by our
works. She spoke of the many duties and
labors of the sisters, and exhorted us to be
true and faithful.
	Mrs. Z. D. Young said there were two
things she was proud of; "her religion and
her sisters," and warned us against a fault-
finding spirit; she said we have one God,

[Column 2]
one Savior, and work for one purpose, the
establishing of Zion.
	Mrs. J. S. Richards prayed our memories
might be strengthened that we might be
able to retain the good instructions we had
received and profit by them.
	Many of the sisters bore their testimony
to the Gospel work, and the spirit of God
was in our midst, and all felt blessed. The
good instructions cheered every heart. In
the evening we had a parlor entertainment
which was largely attended, and I trust
that Miss Snow and Mrs. Young were as
pleased with their visit as we were. Our
President Mrs. J. S. Richards has gone to
St. George to attend Conference.
