NOTES AND NEWS.

	SENATOR EMERSON'S bill making women
eligible for school officers has been recon-
sidered and passed by the New York Sen-
ate.
	THE LEGISLATURE of Minnessota has
passed a bill allowing women to practice
law in all courts of the state. The vote in
the House stood sixty-three to thirty. In
the Senate twenty-six to six.

	OLIVER AMES died at his home in Eas-
ton, Mass., March 9. Mr. Ames was a lead-
ing man "in projecting and completing the
Union Pacific Railroad, and was its presi-
dent at the time of his death." He was
an upright business man and his death is a
a public loss.

	ONE OF the most novel occurrences of re-
cent date was the examination by a phren-
ologist of the head of the Rev. Mrs. Phebe
A. Hanaford. It having been decided that
she was not to occupy the pulpit in the
church where she had heretofore been sus-
tained; her adherents fixed upon this pecu-
liar plan for the establishment of her claims
to the right of the pulpit. Mr. Graham,
the phrenological expert, gave her a most
superior character in every respect, and
pronounced her superiorily qualified to hold
the position. Of course her opponents were
chagrined.

	THE BOSTON "Woman's Journal" gives a
short notice of a Woman's Temperance
meeting held in Fremont Temple, Mrs.
Mary A. Livermore presiding who made a
brief address. She was followed by other
well-known women who are laboring with
zeal and efficiency for Temperance. It was
very evident from the character of the ad-
dress, that women can speak for Temper-
ance. Why cannot they vote for it? Sim-
ply because they are women and have not
the ballot." How inconsistent it is that
women must endure all the trials of drnnken
husbands, brothers and fathers, yet they are
not in any public capacity whatever allowed
to act even for their own protection, against
their abuses. May God speed the day when
woman will be sufficiently strong by right
of law to maintain a position securely
against the abuse and misuse of power.
How is it possible in view of the many evils
which exist for any woman to fail to see
the want of woman's influence in the right
of the ballot.


BLUE STOCKINGS:—A charming club
which existed in the time of Johnson had
for its most prominent member Mr. Still-
ingfleet, who wore blue stockings, and was
so distinguished for the brilliancy and wit
of his conversation that when absent the
other members would exclaim, "we can do
nothing without blue stockings." In this
way the title of the club became established,
and the name drifted into a soubriquet for
all who affected literature. The earliest
mention of a "blue stocking" occurs in a
Greek comedy entitled "The Banquet of
Plutarch."


