"IN SEASON AND OUT OF SEASON."

	This passage of Scripture will apply to the
work now laying before women to accomplish,
and they will find that it will not do to stand
still and wait for some one else to do, but
everywhere be earnest in the work before
them. It has been often remarked that there
is too much talking among women, but in the
present day there seems to be a necessity for
it. "To do more and talk less," is another fav-
orite phrase of many, but to add works to
preaching is better. Women have many things
to do now-a-days, and it is positively neces-
sary to do a vast amount of talking, as well as
brain, and head work. Executive ability is in
good demand, but there is hardly a premium
for it.
	Talk to the purpose is perhaps applicable,
but talking of some sort has evidently got to
be done; and as men have not time to do all the
talking, women must do some of it. "In sea-
son and out of season, in the house and by the
way," in every place where good can be accom-
plished, women should be willing to bring in-
to requisition all the talents they po[-]sess to
bring about the good results for which they are
laboring. It will not do to be too sensitive to
criticism; it is very evident there is some real
work accomplished by women or the public
would not be making such a noise about the
woman cause. Wherever any material good
is effected there is always opposition. The
work now being done among women is some-
thing really wonderful, and while the real ben-
efit is apparent there is little need to care for
what "Madame Grandy" says. Above all wo-
men on the earth the Latterday-Saints should
be earnest and zealous, in season and out of
season, they have the greatest purpose in la-
boring, To lay a sure foundation for them-
selves and children, that they may not be left
without resources when the judgments of God
shall come upon the nations and when Baby-
lon shall fall.
	There is no danger of saying or doing too
much in a good cause, started in the right di-
rection. The women of Utah are moving for-
ward to establish and sustain every depart-
ment of home industry, manufacture and im-
provement, that is, or can be made practicable
for women. They not only talk, but work, and
add faith to works; and may God also add His
blessing to every earnest endeavor.
					[handwritten] E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
	GENERAL CONFERENCE AT ST.
				GEORGE
	This year a new epoch seems to have
opened in the history of the church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, and they have
held their General Conference in a Temple
built and consecrated to God and the adminis-
trations of the holy priesthood upon the earth.
The two stands opposite each other, were oc-
cupied by those bearing the priesthood of the
order of Melchizedec and Aaron. In the first
stand sat President Brigham Young, his coun-
selors and the brethren of the Twelve and
some others. In the opposite one Bishop Ed-
ward Hunter and some other Bishops. Presi-
dent B; Young opened the conference by giv-
ing out the hymn. President D. H. Wells of-
fered the dedicatory prayer, the choir then
sang, "High on the mountain top a banner is
unfurled." The Conference was then address-
ed by Elder George Q. Cannon and President
Brigham Young. The combined choir sang
"And it shall come to pass in the last days."
	In the afternoon of the first day Elder Jos-
eph F. Smith, and President John W. Young
addressed the congregation, after which Pres-
ident Brigham Young said he desired to preach
in terms not long but loud. In all our deal we
should do unto others as we would have oth-
ers do unto us. The Choir sang "Oh praise the
Lord all ye nations."
	The second day of Conference in the morn-
ing Elder C. C. Rich and Elder Wilford Wood-
ruff addressed the people and Elder George Q.
Cannon read a long list of names of mission-
aries appointed to different localities. Some to
Europe, some to the United States and some to
Arizona, after which he made a few remarks
and President Brigham Young said to the
Conference, that the purer the Latter-day
Saints were, the greater would be the rage of
the wicked but the less would be their power
to persecute. The choir sang, "As the hart
panteth after the water brooks."
	In the afternoon of the second day of Con-
ference, after the usual regular exercises, Eld-
er George Q. Cannon read another list of
names of missionaries who were called to pro-
claim the Gospel in different parts of the world
and fourteen Elders whose mission it was to
study the Spanish language.
	It was also moved, seconded and unanimous-
ly carried that the Relief Societies throughout
the Church take a mission to raise silk and do
all in their power to clothe themselves and
their families.

[Column 2]
	Elder Cannon also presented the authorities
of the Church who were unanimously sus-
tained by vote of the Conference. Elder Frank-
lin D. Richards, and Elder Erastus Snow oc-
cupied the afternoon, at the close the choir
sang "Behold O God, our shield and look upon
the face of thine anointed."
	Sunday morning third day of Conference,
Elder Brigham Young Jr., and Elder John
Taylor addressed the congregation. President
Brigham Young spoke to the Conference on
the subject of union. He announced that the
seats of the congregation would be reve[-]sed
and Bishop Edward Hunter would administer
the sacrament. Elder George Q. Cannon pre-
sented the names of some more missionaries.
Sunday afternoon Bishop Edward Hunter first
addressed the Conference, he was followed by
Bishop Edwin D. Wooley; then President
Brigham Young said "we will adjourn this
Conference from this house to the New Taber-
nacle in Salt Lake City, commencing at 10
o'clock in the morning of October sixth next."
	The choir sung "How beautiful upon the
mountains," the congregation then arose and
sung, "The spirit of God like a fire is burning."
Benediction pronounced by President Brigham
Young asking the blessing of God upon all
there assembled, and the good and honest in
heart all over the earth; that the spirit of God
might rest down upon the Temple, that an-
gels might visit it, and all who ministered
there for the living and the dead might feel
the holy influence of the power of God.


