A Forced Business Venture. A YOUNG WIFE'S STORY. Ida Stewart Peay. It is a tragedy for a man with a family to be "laid off," or. at least, I felt it so when in the first five years of our married life, my husband was out of work six different times. Once eleven weeks elapsed before he could again secure a job, and such trying times were intensified by the knowledge that three bright, hearty children looked to us for proper care. I knew my husband was not an unsatisfactory workman. Hundreds of other men, moderately capable, as well as entirely honest and industrious, who also hired out their services by the day at unskilled labor, suffered a like experience. Their engagements depended, apparently, upon the rush periods of the various business concerns of the city. One day when my companion came home "laid off" again, I bitterly deplored conditions which made it practically impossible for a father, able and anxious to earn a livelihood, to secure continuous employment. It seemed as if I could hardly bear the thought of want and deprivation the words "laid off" conjured. They were a tragedy to me as, no doubt, they were and still are to thousands of others; yet I felt obliged to admit, upon reflection, there was, obviously, no other course for the "day laborer" but to work or idle at the pleasure and convenience of the "managers" of the world's affairs. Then I asked my husband seriously, if he could not go into business for himself, and be one of the "managers." As he was only a common "day laborer" without a trade or any special training or education, without capital, and moreover involved to the extent of a thousand dollars for our little home, the idea looked preposterous. Nevertheless, because of our desperate predicament, we talked over all the possibilities, finally evolving a plan that actually appeared feasible, and the trial was decided upon. In our home town, a western city of some ten thousand inhabitants, my husband had worked most of the time at a big foundry and machine shop, where he evidenced considerable native mechanical ability, and acquired a good deal of knowledge and skill in iron work. He was never "fired" from this place, merely being "laid off." from time to time, as were most comparatively new hands in dull seasons. He now approached a fellow workman at the foundry, who Mas well acquainted with all kinds of iron 
 welding, and suggested to him that they form a partnership and open a blacksmith and general repair shop. The man had never thought of such a course, but he felt satisfied that with their combined experience they could take care of that kind of business. Also, he, too was eager to become more independent, and after due consideration, the partnership was effected. The new firm first found and bought a piece of property, forty feet front by twelve rods back on the center or main street of the city. The price was seven hundred dollars, making a debt of three hundred fifty for each man to shoulder, and each, thereupon, agreed to pay $5 a month until the principal and interest, which latter was charged at the rate of eight per cent, were paid off. Next my husband proposed to put up the building, if his associate in the venture would furnish sufficient tools with which to begin work. This being accepted, the shop was built of corrugated iron with rubberoid roofing, the cost reaching something over one hundred dollars. A lumber company furnished the material promising to take shop work for one-half of the amount, and $2 per month for the other half, until the debt was liquidated. The partner made a similar arrangement to obtain the tools, and thus, within fourteen days after the first inception on the of the plan, with a   neat red sign front the red building, began to do business for themselves. Their troubles, however, were by no means over. Several days passed without the appearance of even one customer. A few Job's comforters poked their heads in at the door to sniff and say they didn't know when these fellows had learned the blacksmith trade, but hoped they'd do all right. Those were dark hours fraught with discouraging possibilities. I sought out the wife of my husband's partner, and we made it up between us that our homes should abound with such mottes as, "Never give up." "Keep smiling." "All things come to those who t work and) wait," etc. The men caught the spirit and became more determined to succeed. They studied "blacksmith" magazines and journals at night, built fires in their forges, and hammered on their nails at practice work all day. They made simple tools, repaired everything about their own premises and appeared to be mighty busy. At last their patience was rewarded by a few customers, though at the time of the first month only $15 a piece had been earned. All the same, we women were hopeful, and pointed out the undeniable fact that $15 was more than they made when "laid off," so we urged them to "keep hammering." The second month $30 for each man was secured, which seemed encouraging, even if it wasn't a living wage. To be sure, A FORCED BUSINESS VENTURE. 15 we had no luxuries in those days, but we were very happy for all that, finding a wealth of pleasure in working towards the accomplishment of an end. The partners vied with each other in devising new and economical business methods; while we wives were enthusiastically trying to see which could contrive and serve the cheapest, yet the most wholesome and tasty meals. We ransacked old chests for clothes to remodel, became acquainted with dyes, found the remnant and bargain counters, and tried our hands at millinery. We joked and laughed away many difficulties, and struggled on. Better still, the new "managers" "kept hammering," and became more proficient daily in their chosen vocation. The end of the first year found them realizing $50 per month each. This sum was as much as either had received as wages at the Foundry, and being constant, proved quite satisfactory. But happily their success did not stop at this point. Instead, the business of the little firm continued to grow rapidly and steadily until their respective salaries crept up to $75 per month and finally after ten years to $100, and is still on the upward move. All because they dared to venture, risked everything, then sacrificed, schemed and labored diligently and persistently to "make good." The moderate prosperity that rewarded their honest efforts has brought these two bread-winners a pride and contentment that is inspiring to witness. They now boast a splendid shop equipment, their property has doubled in value, they occupy a place of usefulness in the community, their firm name is known for reliability, and best of all, they can never again be "laid off." TOO BUSY. We are busy folks in a busy world. Madly rushing to and from. There are so many to be done, So many places to go, That we havent time to really live, So we put it off, with a sigh And we dream of the wonderful things well do In the Beautiful by and by. Too busy to take a walk in the woods With the dear one who longs to go. Too busy to write a letter of love To the mother aged and slow; Too busy to visit a friend who is forgotten to smile; Too Busy to do a thousand things That would be really worth while. Too busy to think of a cheery word
To pass to a comrade who's sad. Too busy to kiss the face of a child That its little heart might be glad. Too busy to rest, too busy to pray, Too busy to laugh or to smile,Too busy doing the lesser things  To make life really worth while. Mrs. Parley Nelson, MANTI, UTAH. Isobel Gives a New Year's Dinner And Brings Mother to the Rescue. By Diana Farrish. Fate seemed to be against Tom's and Isobel's New Year's Eve dinner party from the start. The very day itself began with a blinding storm, which made one feel disagreeable. It was so dark that she and Tom were half an hour late in getting up. The baby waked and hindered them with a peevish fretting so that Tom was three-quarters of an hour later than usual, when he dashed off the porch to catch a car for the office without kissing Isobel goodbye. Both of them were annoyed that he should be late for work on the very day that he was going to bring his manager and his wife home for dinner. It looked as if he were making extraordinary preparations. Tom wanted the dinner to be without pretense  just the usual sort of dinner that they had every night. Isobel watched Tom from the door with her lace cap awry. Indeed it came dangerously near covering completely one eye. In her dismay at not being kissed goodbye, she scarcely noticed it. Then suddenly bethinking herself  of the task before her she wheeled about. A puff of smoke from the chafing-dish met her eye. Her nose told her that the electric current under it had not been turned off and that the remains of the scrambled eggs from breakfast had been burned into abominable-smelling gas. She switched off the current and carried the blackened pan to the kitchen. The burnt eggs struck her as being a bad omen. Isobel gathered the dishes into the sink, busily planning the while the best procedure for the day. The pastry must be made immediately after the dishes were finished. The thought of making pastry on the day of company was rather disturbing. Indeed, Isobel was conscious of a feeling of guilt when she recalled that she had spent the two days before in shopping and at parties instead of beginning preparations for the dinner for Mr. Benson and his wife. She wondered if she could not omit the pastry from her menu, but she remembered that Tom had asked especially to have green pea patties, as he had told Mr. Benson about the delicious ones Isobel could make and had promised to let him sample them. No, Tom should not be disappointed, and Isobel splashed into the dishes so that she could make good her promise. As she dried the first plate she heard a faint sound of crying from the bedroom. In her deep absorption she had forgotten to