EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A report of the first Conference of the
Relief Societies in  Sanpete Stake of Zion,
held at Manti City on Monday, May 18.
We were blessed with the presence of Sis-
ters Eliza R. Snow and M. I. Horne, who
were making a visit through the county,
holding meetings and organizing Primary
Associations.
	The Conference was called to order by
Sister M. A. P. Hyde, President of Stake
R. S. There were present on the stand,
Sister Eliza R. Snow, M. I. Horne, M. A.
Hyde and her counselors, Elizabeth Allred
and Anna Larsen, also the Presidents of
the several Societies of the Stake Presi-
dent Petersen, his Counselor, Brother Mai-
ben, and many others.
	The reports of the several Societies were
read, which showed that the sisters had
been alive to their duties and energetic in
assisting in the work of God.
	Sister Hyde expressed her thankfulness
for having the presence of the sisters from
Salt Lake City on such an important occa-
sion, and made many excellent remarks on
plural marriage, bearing testimony; also
exhorted us to be careful that our works
might be accepted of the Lord, &c., &c.
	Sister Snow then addressed the congre-
gation on home manufacture and on becom-
ing self-sustaining. Asked the sisters if
they were preparing for Babylon to fall.
Told them to take hold of silk manufactur-
ing, and plant out mulberry trees, and pre-
pare to make their own apparel. Spoke of
having a Hospital that could be controlled
by those of our own faith, that there could
be a place where the young girls could be
taught to administer herbs in faith, and
become good, efficient nurses and under-
stand the human system.
	She then organized a Silk Association,
with Rebecca Wareham, President, Mary
Lowry and Maria Weibe, Counselors, Alvira
C. Cox, Secretary, Edith Billings, Treasurer;
and all the members of the Relief Societies
and Y. L. M. I. Associations as members of
the Silk Association; also appointed an
acting agent in each settlement.
	President Petersen then expressed his
gratification with the proceedings of the
Conference and the remarks that had been
made. Spoke to some extent on home
manufacture. Asked God to bless Sister
Snow and all the sisters in their labors to
build up the kingdom of God, and all the
Saints with love and union.
	Afternoon meeting. President M. A.
Hyde organized the Y. L. M. I. Associa-
tions in a Stake capacity: Helen Armstrong
was chosen President, Christina Willertsen
and Matilda Delain, Counselors, Viola Van-
Cott, Secretary, Sophia Andersen, Treasurer.
	Sister Horne then addressed the congre-
gation upon the training of children. Said
it was very necessary for mothers to have
the Spirit of God to direct them, that they
might be enabled to teach their children in
the spirit of the Gospel, and fit them to be-
come celestial beings. Told the mothers to
teach them the principles of the Gospel be-
fore they arrived to  years of accountability.
	A number of other sisters spoke; all felt
highly edified with the instructions given
by our worthy Sisters Snow and Horne.
They were sufficient, if observed and put
into practice by the people, to qualify them
for an exaltation in the celestial kingdom
of our God, which is hoped will be our
happy lot.
	The Second Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Societies of Sanpete Stake was held
at Ephraim City, Monday, Aug. 18.
	The congregation was called to order by
the President, Mary A. P. Hyde. The
usual opening exercises of singing and
prayer were offered. The reports of the
several Societies, from their first organiza-
tion were read, also the Stake report, and
accepted. 
	It was surprising to all present to hear
the amount that had been donated for dif-
ferent purposes since the organizing of the
Societies, most of which were organized in
the year 1868. They have donated to the
local poor, $57,698 38; to the P. E. Fund,
$4000 43; to the Temple, $2,126 69; for
sundries and stationery, $695 30; Mission-
aries, $281 00; have stored 3,022 bushels of
wheat.
	After the reading of the reports, the
President of each Society, represented her
respective Society as being in a good con-
dition, and all the sisters being united in
the interest of the Society. A number of
other sisters spoke upon different subjects,
but principally upon union and home manu-
factures.
	Pres. E. R. Snow was presented to the
congregation, also the officers of the Relief
Society of this Stake, and unanimously
sustained. Elder Henry Beal, Counselor
to Pres. Petersen, was present, and urged
the sisters to go on as they have been do-
ing, and stated that they would outstrip
the brethren in union and in carrying out
the United Order.
	The choir sang. Benediction. Ad-
journed until Nov. 18.
	Previous to our Conference the people of
the whole Stake were blessed with a visit
from Sisters E. B. Wells and Elizabeth
Howard, who kindly made a tour through
the county, holding meetings and speaking
most appropriately to both old and young.
	Their remarks were spirited, full of truth
and intelligence, and plainly showed that
their whole hearts were for the welfare of
the human family, and for the accomplish-
ment of God's purposes upon the earth.
	Their remarks to the children were so
kind, plain, and so fitted to their tender
minds, that they will leave an impression
for good that will remain to the end of the
lives of many; and will be like seed sown
upon good ground, or bread cast upon the
waters that will be seen after many days in
the character of noble men and women.
	The Primary Association of this place is
in a promising condition, under the guid-
ance of their amiable and kind President,
Sister Sarah Ellis, and Counselors Sisters
Patrea Hitchcock and Miss Christena Lar-
sen.
	They held their First Conference the 31st
of Aug. They have gathered $2.40 for the
temple, and are now improving the oppor-
tunity of gleaning wheat to reserve for
famine. They have also remembered Sis-
ter E. R. Snow's instructions to plant white
beans, and have acted upon it, and each
member is to give a quart this fall to add
to their store of grain.
	They are preparing for famine with all
the ambition and energy that the humming-
bee, or ant, does for winter; and may God
bless them with plenty in the time of need
is the prayer of
	Your sister in the Covenant,
		FANNY KOFFORD, Cor. Sec'y.

