CHARACTER.—1ST.

	Presence, carriage and bearing majestic,
and Siddons-like manners, gracious, cour-
teous and conciliating, yet humble and un-
assuming; features of a high and lofty
character, forehead capacious, eyes, those
"windows of the soul," grey and lustrous,
large and pupilling, capable of that com-
plex expression which a fine grey eye alone
exhibits, denoting a cultivated, intellectual,
penetrating, observant soul! shadowing
forth by their brilliancy the jewels of the
casket, yet so passionless, so searching, that
if one had anything to conceal they would
recoil from their quiet scrutiny; a mouth
displaying the firmness and purity of the
character, by the compression and delicacy
of the chiseled lips.
	Yet withal, this being was so mild, seem-
ingly so raised above human weaknesses,
soaring ever above the waves of life's tem-
pestuous ocean, that "'twas an 'ark," where
many a weary "dove" sought and found
repose, found rest, found happiness and
peace; and the loftiness, which almost re-
pelled by its grandeur, melted when we
saw that eye look liquid, that mouth en-
compassed by the workings of emotion at
the sorrows of another, and we loved this 
being the more when we discovered, amid
all its superiorities, it was still "one of us!"
A manly mind, but, dearer still, a truly
feminine heart, was the summary of this
rarely found character!
	Religious in the best sense of the word,
without cant, without Pharisaical assump-
tion, without display, nothing gloomy,
nothing ascetic, nothing exclusive—the
loving, compassionate, charitable Spirit of
the Divine Founder of Christianity, was the
model after which it was cast.
	Conversation condensed and appropriate,
every word telling, with a cheerfulness, and
playfulness, that won all with the sweetness
of their healthy tones. In filial duty, and
in every relative affection, exemplary! In
friendship warm, loving and sincere, ready
at all times to stretch forth a helping hand,
whether to nurse, to comfort, to cheer, to
smoothe the dying pillow, to sustain the
drooping soul, by holding forth the light of
revelation with the simplicity, humility
and love of a disciple of the Savior; a faith
nothing could shake, firm, relying and
child-like.

[Column 2]
	Were there no shades in this bright char-
acter, do you ask? 'Twas human, and that
is ever imperfect; but let not the eye of de-
voted friendship search out, or the hand
trace the shadow upon such a dial; for none
were more alive to the humbling traits of
humanity, none more truly felt that the
gold must have its alloy, none in greater
humility would exclaim: "By the grace of
God I am what I am!"
	Ever possessing a noble, independent
mind, doing good to all with the means
possessed, in prosperity grateful, in trial
submissive and resigned, kissing with
meekness the rod of the Great Father of
the universe, knowing there is a "silver
lining to every cloud." In sickness still
maintaining the same cheerfulness, the
same playfulness, the same resignation, and
in death—yes, alas! alas! in death, that
hour of trial and of truth, joyfully trium-
phant, dying as the erring should die, with-
out parade, without display, alone resting
on the "Rock of Ages." Why fall my
tears? They are purely selfish; no, not all
selfish, they fall over a bright page of mem-
ory, which friendship, reverence and love has
forever turned down on the tablet of my
heart.

(To be continued.)


