AT LAST.

There must be something we desire to gain,
	A recompense for pacing to and fro;
Some sweet fruition which we would obtain,
	Or greater wisdom, that we fain would knew;
And this is why we toil on, and endure—
	Do battle 'mid life's trials, storms and strife;
Because we feel that, there is something sure
	That we shall find, within a higher life.

But heavy cares and burdens on our way
	Confuse, and weary us, and we forget
Ofttimes, the blessings given day by day,
	The goal, towards which our faces we have set,
Else we should onward press, stemming the stream,
	Facing the current with an effort grand;
Nor sleep upon our oars, or careless dream,
	Lest we lost sight of Eden's promised land.

But in life's summer time so passing sweet,
	When all around seems blooming gay with flow'rs,
We're apt to shrink from duties we should meet,
	And linger—dallying in wayside bowers,
Tlil we're reminded, by the setting sun,
	Th[-]t time, for idlers, will not, cannot wait,
And we resume the task, erstwhile begun,
	Perchance to murmur at our adverse fate.

Lucky if only sweets we gathered, while
	We sought for pleasures on the broad highway;
For sometimes serpents charm us to beguile,
	And lead our footsteps very far astray.
And we must wander in a wilderness.
	In doubt and fear, not knowing what to do,
The sweets we tasted turn to bitterness,
	And thorns and briars, pierce us through and throngh.

Till some good angel takes us by the hand,
	Leading us out of sadness, darkness, night,
And we begin to see and understand,
	That we had wandered far, from truth and light.
'Twere better if we never turned aside,
	But labored diligent with constant care,
Stern duty for our motto, faith our guide,
	Patience our helpmeet—and our watchword, prayer.

Ye who are toiling in youthful prime,
	See that you sow some good, some precious seeds,
Or make some record that will be sublime,
	Engraven in the archives of geod deeds.
For these alone true rest and peace can bring,
	A bounteous yielding from the harrowed past,
That will like glory, round you ever cling,
	Diffusing happiness unto the last.

But if we would life's lessons wisely learn,
	And find that peace for which our spirits long,
The immortality for which we yearn,
	Then we must out of suffering, grow more strong.
There is a something pure for which to live,
	There are bright sunbeams that will ever gleam,
And joys supreme, that heaven alone can give,
	That will exceed our fairest, brightest dream.

September 20, 1879. [handwritten] E. B. Wells	EMILE.


[Column 1]
