HOME AFFAIRS.

	ON SUNDAY Sisters M. I. Horne and E. S.
Taylor visited Sandy Station and organized a
Primary Association, Mrs. Margaret Maginnis
President.
	ON FRIDAY and Saturday, Sept. 19 and 20,
Sisters Eliza R. Snow and Elizabeth Howard
attended the Quarterly Conference of the Re-
lief Societies, Young Ladies' M. I. A. and Pri-
mary Associations of Weber Stake of Zion,
Mrs. Hattie Brown presiding.
	ON THURSDAY, Sept. 18, Miss E. R. Snow
visited Kaysville, held two meetings and or-
ganized the children of each district into a
Primary Association. Mrs. Jane Blood was
appointed President of the first district, and
Mrs. Mary Ann Macpherson of the second dis-
trict.
	WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 24, Sisters M. I Horne,
S. M. Heywood and Phebe Woodruff attended
the Annual meeting of the Relief Society of


[Column 1]
Brinton, Big Cottonwood Ward, Mrs. Eliza-
beth Howard presiding. In the evening the
sisters held a general meeting, which many of
the brethren of the ward attended.

	TO-DAY IS the opening of the Territorial
Fair; great pains have been taken by the sev-
eral committees to make it a success in every
way, and we sincerely hope it will be well pa-
tronized, and help to promote the industrial
pursuits and home manufactures of the Terri-
tory. There is a creditable representation from
the women in their line of work and orna-
mentation.

	MRS. MARTHA B. Young has returned from a
visit to her relatives in the East. She traveled
down in company with Lieut. Willard Young,
and returned alone. Mrs. Young spent most
of the time with her relatives in Mt. Holly
New Jersey, her native place, but she also
visited her brother in Philadelphia. She
enjoyed her visit very much, and her health
improved during her journey, but her friends
did not wish to hear anything about the Gospel.

	THE WOMAN'S Conference of this Stake of
Zion was held in the Fourteenth Ward Assem-
bly Rooms Friday and Saturday last, Mrs.
M. I. Horne presiding. The time was almost
entirely occupied with the verbal and written
reports of Relief Society, Young Ladies' and
Primary Associations. Saturday afternoon
Pres. A. M. Cannon and his Counselor Joseph
E. Taylor was present and set the board of of-
ficers of the Relief Society Stake apart to their
office and calling.

	AN ORDINARY-SIZED weekly newspaper has
been started in Logan, called 'The Logan
Leader." Its editor is Mr. Frank Cannon, son
of Hon. George Q. Cannon. We have received
