HOME AND HAPPINESS.

	How to make home happy is a question
worthy of deep thought, and should be in
the minds of all young ladies. There are
so many little things that add to the happi-
ness of a home and fill it with light and
beauty.
	A lady's nature may readily be judged
from the arrangement of her home. If
upon entering a home we find flowers, books,
pretty, not necessarily expensive; pictures,
beautiful and useful little articles of fancy
work, we can easily tell that there is within
this home an industrious, refined, gentle
creature, and we instinctively turn towards
such a one with feelings of affection, and
perhaps love, without ever seeing her. Her
very surroundings tell us where her
thoughts are most, and we know her mind
by studying her handiwork. "A true art-

[Column 2]
ist," one might say as she looks around and
sees the beautiful little mats, cushions, ti-
dies, wall ornaments of autumn leaves,
ferns, grasses, shells, &c.
	It is so easy, so enjoyable, to decorate
one's home in a real cheerful manner, and
it lies within the reach of every human
soul to do this. The best, the brightest or-
nament is a person possessing a peaceful,
contented mind. Where the mind is con-
tent the face is always beautiful, for an ex-
pression of happiness lights up the coun-
tenance and renders the most plain really
pretty. Who with any love for nature, or
art, could rest content with four bare white
walls always staring them in the face? It
relieves the mind, it rests the eyes to have
something pretty to look at. Nothing could
be more delightful to the young and active
than to take rambles through the canons
and meadows during these long summer
days, and gather bunches of the golden
brown and red autumnal leaves, then of an
evening, when the hard day's work is done,
we can sit and weave these carefully
pressed leaves into crosses, wreaths, clus-
ters, and many strange devices, to orna-
ment the walls. Autumn leaves are a
pleasure in every respect, and in the long
winter evenings, as we look upon the pret-
tily arranged leaves that make our sur-
roundings look so warm and cheerful, smil-
ing down upon us, the pleasure of picking
them is recalled—how with dear friends
we roamed over hill and dale and sought
these charming treasures; how we laughed
and chatted as we walked along, stopping
now and then to reach in some dangerous
place to gather a few leaves, which from
their very position seemed more beautiful
than all the rest. Oh, how often do we
value hard sought treasures, though not
nearly as beautiful, more than those found
with little seeking! Yet so it is; we value
the moonlight more than the starlight be-
cause the moon only comes at certain inter-
vals, and the stars are always there. Yet
if, like Jupiter, we had four moons shining
down upon us, we would value the stars
more, because they are farther away. Oh,
ever-changing soul, why not be content with
the near and constant, instead of seeking
that which, seemingly so beautiful and true,
may prove so very false.
	What queer looking individuals we would
be if we had plain, white faces, void of ex-
pression. As the smile and animation light
up our faces, so do the pretty ornaments
light up our homes.
	How nice it is to be able to make little
presents to our friends and companions, and
surely nothing could be more acceptable
than a piece of one's own handiwork. We
love the gift simply for the sake of the
giver, and therefore a little piece of work
is often valued more than the costliest
present, because the donor "did it herself."
When you make a gift, have it as much
like yourself as possible, and it is sure to
be loved. If you are a poet, give me a
poem; if a painter, give me a picture; if a
florist, send me flowers. Then the gift con-
tains the soul of the giver, and you love
and cherish it almost as you would love and
cherish the being it represents,
	It is very nice to have a home filled with
the costliest ornaments of art, such as,

[Column 3]
statues, pictures, vases, &c., but how few
there are who can afford these things, yet
there are none who cannot afford to deco-
rate their home, with the work of their
own hands. Too much time is spent now
on one's personal appearance. To be sure,
we cannot be too careful about making our-
selves neat and pretty, but for a young lady
to devote all her time and intellect on ar-
ranging her costume is simply absurd; yet
there are many who do this and whose
only thought is "How can I make myself
fashionable and attractive?" Alas! what a
mistake, that a pretty face and dress will
do this. If you really wish to be attractive,
decorate your face with smiles, your mind
with knowledge and learning, and your
person with good manners; then every one
will love and admire you. A well-stored
mind is sought after for the ideas it can
impart, a cheerful disposition for the hap-
piness it spreads over all who come in con-
tact with it, for it gives life to those who
are near, just as the sun gives life to the
things it shines upon. Such a mind and
nature is far more attractive than the pret-
tiest face, and the consciousness of making
others happy is sure to bring happiness to
one's self.
	[unreadable handwritting] CAMELIA.


