A FEW HINTS ABOUT FLOWERS.

	Repot your Calla's now and give them
plenty of sunshine and water if you wish
early winter blossoms. In my modest
collection of house-plants my Calla's hold
supreme sway as my favorites; though I
am quite partial to my bright colored
geraniums and heliotrope for they (the
geraniums) do brighten up one's rooms so
on a dull winter's day when all without is
cold and white and cheerless. I rather
think every body has a hobby of some sort
and I freely conf[-]ss house-plants is mine;
and a real nice hobby it is too. I don't
think there is any work (if I may call it
work) that I enjoy, about the house so much
as trimming, watering and attending to my
house-plants. I give my lilies rich soil
with plenty of sand to make good drainage
and hot water in the saucer every morning;
and O, how they repay one for a little care
with great white waxy blossoms, graceful
foliage and delicious fragance. I prefer
east windows if possible for my flowers,
though south, or west will do nicely
especially in the winter as then they are not
likely to have more sunshine than they
need. For vines I have English, German
and Kenilworth ivies, or mother of thous-
ands, some call the latter. I must not
forget to mention the Maraunda vine which
is lovely to train about the windows, or
around pictures; it bears a beautiful little
bell-shaped flower in white and purple
which makes it more attractive to me, than
either of the others: though all or any of
them are nice to train about the walls and
windows. They must be kept moist and
given plenty of light and they will do
almost anything you want them to in the
way of twining.
	The Kenilworth ivy looks very pretty in
the pot with your lilies or other tall plants,
and grows so quick it soon covers the earth
and pot. And I am quite sure if any of the
readers of this article will try the experi-
ment they will be satisfied with the result.
The leaves of the English ivy need to be
washed with soapsuds about once a month,
if you wish it to thrive in the house: its
dark green leaves are a pretty contrast to


the German ivy, or Maraunda vine which
ismuch more delicate in shade and tendril
A very pretty idea is to make yourself or
get some handy young man to make for
you, a wooden cross ten or twelve inches
high, and stick it in the pot with some one
of your vines, and they will twine about it
so thickly you will hardly be able to see
the wood at all, and will be tempted to
think you have a cross of living green.
The Maraunda is especially pretty for
this purpose.			ROSABEL.


[Column 1]
