DO WOMEN EARN MONEY?

	From the way women are referred to, gener-
ally speaking, one would think they were not
entitled to anything, except what they ob-
tained by favor.  Recently a gentleman ob-
served, "Oh, yes, I know that women are giv-
ing a great deal of means for this and that in
their organizations, but where does it all come
from?  Out of the husband's pocket."  Just as
much as to say woman, the wife, the mother,
has no right to anything.  It all belongs to
him, her lord, her master.  It is time the ta-
bles were turned and the other side of the pic-
ture shown.  "One story is good until another
is told" is a homely proverb, but nevertheless
it is a true one.  It is time that women them-
selves estimate the value of their own work,
at any rate appreciate the worth of their own
lives.  How many wives toil from early morn
until late at night, and even into the "wee
sma' hours," and it is scarce recognized?  Per-
haps, were the husband interrogated, he might
say, "Oh, she is a prudent, good woman, she
obeys me, she keeps her place," and so on, but
how few comparatively will say, "Yes, she has
worked as faithfully as I have to accumulate
this property, to make the home, to educate
the children.  And yet, in how many instan-
ces this is really the case.  We remember dis-
tinctly when quite a little girl, of hearing a
clergyman say," My wife never earned a cent
in all her life," and we know, too, that this
good, faithful wife was a complete slave; that
she did more actual work than half a dozen
college-bred gentlemen like himself, and had
more brains.  Do any of you readers know
what is expected of the wife of a clergyman in
a country village or small town?  Do you
know what it is to be the wife of a Bishop?
There is a strong similarity.  This excellent
woman did her own household work, kept his
clerical broadcloth in repair, waited upon him
as if she was his servant instead of his wife,
and was complained of when she was not
dressed to receive company, because, forsooth,
he had his sermons to write, and it took him
four days in a week; and when he was in his
study and his wife had her housework, mend-
ing, making, knitting, baby-tending and all to
do he would call to her every few minutes to
hear this, or that he had written, or suggest
ideas, or look up Latin and Greek he had for-
gotten.  But upon no account could he be dis-
turbed when he was in his study, for their
bread and butter depended upon it.  And so
he preached the very sermons her fertile brain
helped him to write, and dressed with scrupu-
lous nicety, and walked in his garden when
his head ached: but she bent over the baby's
crib, or the hot cooking stove, tired, weary,
and often sick at heart, while the Reverend
arried off the honors, and the young ladies
and the old maids admired his genius and won-
dered at his plain, domestic wife, and thought
she did not half appreciate him.
	And so it is--this man whose wife was a treas-
ure  in every way, finely educated, the daugh-
ter of a clergyman herself, was shut up in the
house from year to year, planning, scheming,
toiling, heart and mind in a constant strain,
to know how to economize, and live genteelly,
and feed, clothe and educate the children, on
the very small salary her husband had the
honor of earning; but "she," poor thing,
"never earned a cent." 
	There are many such records as this all
around; there is no need to go back for them.
We do not allude to the class of women who
are a dead weight in the community, who live
only for pleasure, and are always complaining
of "ennui," but to wives and mothers who
toil from morn till eve, rearing families, and
are so much occupied with work that they
have scarcely time to call upon a friend, or
answer a letter.  Do they earn any money?
Has their time and labor any real money value?
We insist that it has, moreover, that the hus-
band who says whatever she uses is his, does
her an injustice, to say the least.  Does he ask
his wife when he wants to make a trade, or a
purchase, or treat a friend, or bestow charity,
or give his note, or put his name to a note for
a friend; and yet the last two concern the wel-
fare of his family, it may be very materially.
No, of course he don't tell his wife; it is not
her business, she wouldn't understand it if he
did, and it would be a source of annoyance.
The money is his, the property he has earned,
so he thinks and sometimes says, and he gives
her what she needs, so far as he can afford.
	Out of these very simple things great evils
have grown, women who had not the moral
courage to ask for what they wanted, and we
must confess it takes a great deal, but who
have sufficient sense to realize they have some
rights, that they cannot and dare not contend
for, have often been led to deceive, to do things
"on the sly," as it is termed, and justify them-
selves in doing so, feeling that they have a
perfect right to do it; but this is not all - what
effect does a course of this kind, a lifetime of
deceit, have upon the children?  We speak
advisedly when we say there have been in-
stances of this sort, and they are not rare.
Every person who knows anything of the laws
of human nature, must be aware that such a
course would be disastrous to the best interests
of a family, and that there could be no real,
true harmony in the domestic circle where
there was deception, fear and want of confi-
dence.  Where does the blame fall?  Probably
in nine cases out of ten it would be attributed
to the wife.  This  is  a subject  that  much
might be said upon.
	The wife who performs her home-duties
faithfully has no time to earn money outside
her home while she is rearing her children,
but she earns money at home.  Certainly wo-
men earn money.  If a person comes into the
house to do the work, that person must be
paid in money, or its equivalent.  Yet men
will say without a blush,  "My wife never
earned a cent"  And if she happens to be-
stow anything for "charity's sweet sake," it is
not hers, it came out of her husband's pocket.
	We are thankful there are noble men, who
do not entertain these narrow views; and as
women become conversant with business mat-
ters, step out of the kitchen now and then, as-
sociate together in a way calculated to elevate
and benefit each other, study the best methods
of life, health and vigor of body and mind, do
their own thinking, seeking to become good
mothers and rear children who will be an
honor to their parents, having sound bodies
and vigorous intellects, these evils which exist
today may in a great measure be eradicated.
Another and better day will dawn upon wo-
man,  and we believe even in the "magical
matter of money."  The position of women
with relation to money is one which might be
discussed by  intelligent  women advanta-
geously.
	One of the lessons taught in an association
of women should be to use money wisely and
make better investments than the extravagant
adornments of their own persons.  There are
women, who, with the resources they have,
could help much in enterprises that are for the
general good, and thus materially benefit so-
ciety; but when it is expended in tawdry, or
expensive jewelry, elaborate costumes, and
luxuries which only undermine the health, it
is a curse instead of a blessing. The econo-
mizing and saving money from useless ex-
penses and superfluous waste, is one of the
relative duties of woman to the household.
The enormous risks and lavish outlays of busi-
ness men leave this care devolving upon wo-
men, if they have any forethought, or desire
to be a true helpmeet.  One thing we always
notice, that those who are most splendidly
dressed, seldom have anything to give; their
pockets are empty and their hearts are desti-
tute of generosity or benevolence.  Women
who dress simplest and work hardest, as a
rule are the ones who are most useful and most
generous in every public need or enterprise.
	It is necessary, in order that woman may
fulfill the sacred mission given her in this
Church, that she should be highly endowed
with opportunities for culture, and that she
should comprehend her own needs, her true
value; that she make no reckless expenditure
of time, or of bodily or mental power, nerve,
or brain force, in order to ensure an enlightened
motherhood, and that she may walk side by
side with man, her brother, as a co-recipient of
divine blessings and influence, without any
"cruel limit" to her sphere of usefulness, or
education, mental or spiritual, for "the man is
not without the woman nor the woman with-
out the man in the Lord."  But to conclude;
if men will transact the business and fill the
posts of honor and importance, earning the
money, women should be able to judiciously
save, and saving is equivalent to earning.
	How much would a man have to pay out, for
having his socks darned, and his linen kept in
order during his lifetime, leaving out all other
items?					E. B. Wells


