Mother's Day
A BIT of old Dutch wisdom comes to us in the quotation, "He that remembers God and his mother is shielded against all evil." The second Sunday in May has been set apart for loving remembrance of mother, for a glance back through the pages of time and a recollection of the lessons she has taught and the principles she has endeavored to inculcate in us. It is a day in which our appreciation for her loving service and our thankfulness for her life are expressed in word and deed. It is a day dedicated to the most powerful force for good the world has ever known—mother love. That a special day is necessary to induce one to recall mother and to stimulate expressions of appreciation for her is difficult to understand. She who has shared our troubles, rejoiced in our successes, she who has largely charted the course of our lives and has been our best friend should continuously be the recipient of expressions of appreciation stimulated by a constant awareness of her sacrifices, her strength, her love and her influence for good. Perhaps a reminder is necessary merely because we are careless and so engrossed in our own affairs that we neglect to do the thing we know we should do and would really like to do. But all too often children magnify their own powers and minimize the influences that have contributed most to their strength; they become so accustomed to the strengthening influence of mother that they lose sight of it; they forget their obligations of love and gratitude to her. William George Jordan says, "Ingratitude is a crime more despicable than revenge, which is only returning evil for evil, while ingratitude returns evil for good." The tasks confronting a mother are not easy. Though they bring their compensations, their satisfactions and joys, she who fills this position in life experiences moments of sorrow, days of anxiety, great sacrifices and responsibilities which cannot be evaded. The mother of yesterday, presiding over the home where she was the central figure in a closely-knit family, living in a world of rather even tempo, had a sufficiently difficult time; but today's mother finds herself living in a world of confusion. She faces a stream-lined, speeded-up world, and stands dismayed. The life patterns of her youth are not the patterns of her children's day. Her pleasures were to be found around the piano in the family parlor while her daughter seeks hers in a high-powered car. Mingling with girls who smoked or used alcoholic beverages in mother's youth would have made her a social outcast; daughter lives in a world where such things are socially acceptable to many people. Understanding between youth and maturity seems to be a constantly widening gap. Economic problems today are pronounced. Living standards are growing increasingly high, and human wants are multitudinous. The simple things that brought joy to mother's heart would scarcely thrill the girl of today. The problem of bridging the gap between mother and children, the task of meeting economic needs, the difficulties involved in rearing a fam-
 
ily in an atmosphere of kindness and affection, of allowing freedom without license, of maintaining daily intimate relationships with children, of earning their respect, of establishing mutual interests and understanding in today's world are overwhelming. The mother of today must realize that "instinct doesn't furnish all the equipment necessary to meet her child-rearing problems, and mother love is not an adequate substitute for knowledge and efficiency." She must make a scientific approach to her task of child guidance. She must recognize that divine wisdom must be constantly applied in solving her problems. She must wisely appraise her situation and earnestly strive to cope with the present and preserve fundamental values. Every effort must be exerted to wisely direct and adequately supervise children, that they may be fortified to live well in a topsy-turvy world. Surely, such mothers will be successful mothers, mothers who not only merit the praise of a nation on Mother's Day but the deep-seated, everyday gratitude of those whose lives they mold—that gratitude which is "thankfulness expressed in daily action—the heart's recognition of kindness that lips cannot repay." —B. S. S.