HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon
MAY
Sweet remembrance comes when blooms the earth in all its tender loveliness.
A RECENT survey in the world of books reveals some surprising facts concerning the trend of thought. Books on economics, sociology and medicine lead, followed by religious subjects and fiction, while history and biography are not so popular.
MLLE DE MORSIER, head of Save the Children International Union, is cooperating with the Red Cross in Latvia, Lithuania and Rumania in assisting Polish refugees. Among those seeking aid are Mme. Grabinska, a Polish Government official, and Janina Kolczicka, famous Polish actress who was found dying on the Russ-Lithuanian frontier.
GENORA PLASIDAS AMARILLAS, of Mexico, 109 years old, is visiting a son in California; and Cynthia Ann Robertson, of Missouri, 100, is relating to relatives in St. Joseph the high cost of living in the days of her girlhood.
HORTENSE ODLUM, president of that smartest of Fifth Avenue shops, Bonwit Teller, recently sponsored a group of illustrated fashion lectures de luxe with living models from her shop, displaying and discussing wardrobes particularly designed for career and business and professional women. "Packing a Convention Bag" was one of the delightful topics.
ETTIE DAY of New York conducts a wholesale trucking business handling tons of freight weekly. She began this unusual career for a woman at the age of 15 in the office of her father, from whom she inherited the business which she has successfully carried on for 17 years.
LIEN-YUAN YAO, Chinese scholar and war correspondent, in a recent tour across the United States, with sincere reason predicted victory for her people in the present war with Japan. Miss Yao spent a year on the Chinese battlefields and twice narrowly escaped death.
MAXINE ELLIOTT, American actress of unusual beauty and charm, recently died in her luxurious villa on the French Riviera, where for many years she was known as an international hostess, often having as guests kings, princes, dukes, and earls. During the World War she did heroic service as a Red Cross nurse.
FRANCES MAUGHAN VERNON, of Utah, devoted wife and mother, died last month. She was a leader in educational and social work among women, a former legislator and member of the state Agricultural College board.
EFFIE PECK ELDREDGE of Utah died last month. She was a lifelong worker in Church auxiliaries and for many years stake president of Relief Society in Bannock and South Davis stakes; also a valiant member of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers.