(Continued on page 358)
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
How To Teach A New Song Wade N. Stephens of the Tabernacle Organ Staff
NOT until a song is learned by the conductor, as outlined last month, is it ready to be taught to the chorus. In presenting new music to a group of Singing Mothers it is best to teach by rote, assuming that none can read. Before anyone can sing a new tune, he must hear it enough to impress its general outline upon his memory. Therefore, it is best to begin teaching a new song by playing it completely through several times. The organist must, of course, be carefully instructed beforehand in the speed and dynamics to be used. When the sound of the piece becomes a little familiar, take one part at a time, phrase by phrase. Play the first phrase of the soprano part several times, while the sopranos listen without singing. Then have them hum or sing softly as the accompanist plays the phrase several more times. As it becomes more certain, allow them to sing louder and have the organist play softer, until they can sing it surely without accompaniment. Do this with each phrase, stopping at the end of each section or verse to put the phrases together. After all the phrases in a section are learned, it will require many repetitions to make sure the memorizing of the section as a whole; and when all the sections are learned, it will still take some time to make certain the smooth performance of the entire piece. Repeat with each part and with combinations of two parts before having all parts sing together. This entire procedure may have to be repeated at several rehearsals before the chorus will remember correctly. At each rehearsal after the first, pick out the hardest phrases to work most, leaving the easy ones until the singers begin to tire. When the notes have been memorized, the conductor's work begins. The chorus must now be taught the changes in speed and dynamics which the conductor has prepared. It is best not to talk much about interpretation. The very words we use do not mean the same to everyone, so even if all the members listen only a few will know what is meant. The language of pantomime is universally understood. All conducting technique is pantomime and therefore more readily comprehended than words. Make use of your technique to show the chorus how to sing, while it is singing. This will result always in better performance. The conductor, while on the podium, is supreme. Act with authority, or the chorus will not submit to you. When you step up to conduct, you are no longer the same person. You can do no wrong. You have no friends, no enemies. Your weaknesses are discarded, and only strength and authority remain. Even if you are not as well trained as your organist, still she must follow you in every detail, in spite of her own convictions. If you assume this authority, striving with all your energy toward a better performance as you see it, you will be rewarded always with results beyond your expectations.
Cathedral of Peace (Continued from page 356)
"No." She set her lips stubbornly. Let it hurt. He was always hurting others. It could not be possible for this to hurt him as it was hurting her, deep down where there were no tears. She turned and fled after her boys. In the yard she looked about. A long twilight was settling over the valley. There was no sign of Carson nor Bob. They were gone. Carson was gone. Perhaps Bob would bring him back. Even as she thought it, she knew he would not. Her boy was gone—out of her home forever.
(To be continued)
PLANT A GARDEN
There is talk about Depression, And I guess it is a fact, People claim they're undernourished, Yet for food we haven't lacked.
For you see, we have a garden! Vegetables of every kind Furnish food so fresh and wholesome, Without leaving bills behind.
People who are well and hearty Notice less the doleful signs; Optimism grows in gardens, Likewise, hope and vitamins.
If you're feeling blue and wishing Dull, depressing days would end, Just go out and plant a garden, It will prove a helpful friend.