Birth Control. Knowing quite well the attitude of the leading women of this people, past and present, on the subject of child-bearing, the Editor still felt anxious to present the views of some of our leading brethren on the subject. Accordingly a letter was sent out setting forth the fact that many of our eastern magazines, especially the women's magazines, have been discussing the pro- priety of what is known as "birth control." The eugenists and fashionable women, and the fashionable doctors and ministers who advocate this movement, claim that families of from two to four children are quite sufficient for any woman to bear. The lower classes should be discouraged from bearing profusely, ac- cording to these pseudo-philosophers, because of their ignorance and poverty while the middle class women, who are the working; women, through these doctrines are gradually getting to feel that life holds much more for them than motherhood. All sorts of reasons, from ill-health and poverty to riches and frivolity, are brought forward as arguments to sustain the claims thus made. We mothers in Zion are quite willing to concede the fact that many of the women of the world who refuse to bear children are better without them, because of the many cases of infidelity of their husbands, and because of their own selfish vanity but the; mothers and grandmothers of Zion must not become tainted with the sins of these final judgments which are sweeping over the earth, for childlessness is one of the judgments now, as it was in the days of Noah, according to the Book of Jasher. We present as our frontispiece, the charming group of baby faces, collected from the grandmothers, mothers, and aunts, on ke power for the express purpose of bringing the souls of men into the world. The Lord has said, "This is my work and my glory to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." Hence those who are instrumental in bring-ing children into the world, and doing their full duty by them, help to accomplish the designs of the Almighty Father. Blessed is the man and blessed is the woman to whom no sin is imputed in the marriage relation, but who carefully observe the law of their natures, and keep the commandments of God. To them the future will bring no regrets, and they will not be troubled by an accusing conscience or keen and abiding anguish of the soul. RuDGER ClAWSON. BIRTH CONTROL. 
 RICHARDS. The efforts on the part of Eastern magazine writers to ecki- cate the people of the United States, particularly parents, to the doctrine that they should limit the number of their offspring to three or four children, and how this can be accomplished, is both pernicious and an abomination in the sight of the Lord; and it robs both man and his Maker of their glory and increase. I view it as a direct fulfilment of what was shown the Apostle Paul by the Spirit, would come to pass. (1 Tim. 4:1-3.) It is marvelous how many are departed from the faith and are giving heed to seducing spirits, and doctrines of devils, speak- ing lies in hypocricy having their conscience seared as with a; hot iron, some forbidding to marry and others commanding to abstain from meats, and from child-bearing, which God hath created to be received with thanksgiving. The Apostle admon- ishes Timothy to refuse profane and old wives' fables, and to ex- ercise himself rather with godliness. These may well be called old wives' fables, and a curse will follow those who advocate such doctrines. I\Iy wife has borne to me fifteen children. Anything short of this would have been less than her duty and privilege. Had we received and obeyed the doctrine of three or four children to the home, we would have cut ourselves short of blessings more valua- ble to us than all the wealth of this world would be, were it ours. We might never have known in this life what our loss had been, but it would have been just as great as we now see it. and some- time we would know as we now know. Then consider the joy and value of life to others. What of our eleven children born to us in excess of the four to which such as these magazine writers would limit us? Can the value of such a mission and service be estimated? Will not these our children and their husbands, wives and children, for generations after us, if they are duly apprecia- tive, rise up and call us blessed forever and ever? As to the danger and hardship of child-bearing to the moth- ers, I have to say that from my observations, I conclude that the answering of nature's laws which are God's laws is far less in- jurious and dangerous than the efforts made to defeat these laws. That there is less of anxiety and cost in rearing but few children in the fan^ly, is granted, but that children thus brought up are better reared. I do not concede. It is an easy matter to understand how that people would make popular the wrong of which they are guilty and having no thought of repentance, seek to drag others down to their own \o\\\ evil level. It seems to take away, in a measure, their reproach. This class, as a rule, are guilty of the double offense of both practicing and teaching a false and abominable doctrine. For such, the patience of the 
 Lord, I fear, will cease to be a virtue and His anger will be kind- led against them. George F. Richards. elder david 0. mckay Any efifort or desire on the part of a married couple to shirk the responsibility of parenthood reflects a condition of mind antagonistic to the best interests of the home, the state and the nation. No doubt there are some worldly people who honestly limit the number of children and the family to two or three be- cause of insufficient means to clothe and educate a large family as the parents would desire to do, but in nearly all such cases, the two or three children are no better provided for than two or three times that number would be. Such parents may be sincere, even if misguided but in most cases the desire not to have chil- ; dren has its birth in vanity, passion and selfishness. Such feel- ings are the seeds sown in early married life that produce a har- vest of discord, suspicion, estrangement, and divorce. All such efforts, too, often tend to put the marriage relationship on a level with the panderer and the courtesan. They befoul the pure fountains of life with the slime of indulgence and sensuality. Such misguided couples are ever seeking but never finding the reality for which the heart is yearning. Depriving themselves of the comfort and happiness of the companionship of children, the barrenness of their lives drives the young couple to seek the hollow fads and fascinating excite- ments of "Society," many of which pursuits are as antagonistic to the real purpose of life as the influence of evil can make them. As I write these lines, I have in mind a young girl who has substituted for the reality of home and family, the froth of week-end parties and midnight carousals, including the most de- grading but fashionable habit of cigarette smoking. She began her married life in honor, and is the mother of two beautiful children but she was caught in the whirlpool of pleasure and; passion, and though flaunting daily the latest fashions, is sinking from respectability to refined degradation. "O what a falling off were here!" I cannot look upon such actions of young hus- bands and wives without a feeling of pity mino^led with contempt. There is comfort only in the thought that in our communities such cases are exceptional. Love realizes his sweetest happiness and his most divine consummation in the home where the coming of children is not re- stricted, where they are made most welcome, and where the duties of parenthood are accepted as a co-partnership with the eternal Creator. BIRTH CONTROL. 367 In all this, however, the mother's health should be guarded. In the realm of wifehood, the woman should reign supreme. Man, not woman, is the chief cause of this evil of race suicide now sweeping like a blight through the civilized nations. Marriage is ordained of God that children might be so trained that they may eventually be worthy of Christ's presence and that; home is happiest in which they are welcomed, as God and nature intended they should be. Sincerely your brother, David O. McKay. elder o. f. whitney. am aware, of course, that I believe in large families, though I it iseasier to feed, clothe, educate and rear a few children than many. But these considerations, so conclusive to some minds, have never had weight with me, contemplating as I do the eternal rather than the mere earthly phases of marriage and pro- creation. The only legitimate "birth control" is that which springs naturally from the observance of divine laws, and the use of the procreative powers, not for pleasure primarily, but for race per- petuation and improvement. — During certain periods those of — gestation and lactation the wife and mother should be compara- tively free to give her strength to her offspring and if this involves; some self-denial on the part of the husband and father, so much the better for all concerned. "Birth control," under God's law, is a problem that solves itself. I have no faith in the sophisms of those who reject His law, and try to substitute therefor their own vain theories for sex regulation. The eugenists may mean well, but they don't know enough to lead the world out of the wilderness. O. F. Whitney. ELDER JOSEPH F. SMITH, JR. In answer to your communication in which you ask me for my views on the question of "birth control," or the limiting of the.number of children in a family to one or two," according to the teaching of the day by the so-called elite or fashionable class, I have this to say: The first great commandment given both to man and beast by the Creator was to "be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth;" and I have not learned that this commandment was ever repealed. Those who attempt to pervert the ways of the Lord, and to prevent their offspring from coming into the world in obe- dience to this great command, are guilty of one of the most hein- 
 ous crimes in the category. There is no promise of eternal salva- tion and exaltation for such as they, for by their acts they prove their unworthiness for exaltation and unfitness for a kingdom where the crowning glory is the continuation of the family union and eternal increase which have been promised to all those who obey the law of the Lord. It is just as much murder to destroy life before as it is after birth, although man-made laws may not so consider it but there is One who does take notice and his; justice and judgment is sure. I only the greatest contempt for those w;ho, because feel of a worldly learning or a feeling of their own superiority little over others, advocate and endeavor to control the so-called "lower classes" from what they are pleased to call "indiscriminate breed- ing." Th old Colonial stock that one or two centuries ago laid the foundation of our great nation, is rapidly being replaced by an- other people, due to the practice of this erroneous doctrine of "small families." According to statistics gathered by a leading- magazine published in New York, a year or two ago, the average number of children to a family among the descendants of the old American stock in the New England States, was only two and a fraction, while among the immigrants from European shores who?re now coming into our land, the average family was composed of more than six. Thus the old stock is surely being replaced by the "lower classes" of a sturdier and more worthy race. Worthier because they have not learned, in these modern times, to disregard the great commandment given to man by our Heavenly Father. It is indeed, a case of the survival of the fittest, and it is only a matter of time before those who so strongly advocate and practice this' , pernicious doctrine of "birth control" and the limiting of the num- ber of children in the family, will have legislated themselves and their kind out of this mortal existence. Joseph F. Smith, Jr. PENNY SUBSCRIPTION FUND. The first collection for the Penny Subscription fund will be made in July. Teachers have been supplied with slips and secre- taries with special books to record these donations. :