“THE FIRST OF JUNE,” 1899, AT SALTAIR.

	The day was not so fair and beautiful as
the celebrating relatives and friends of the
honored and beloved Prophet, President
Brigham Young, might have wished for
his ninety-eighth birthday. But notwith-
standing the fact that sudden gusts of wind
and intermittent rain showers prevented a
great many from venturing out to the Lake,
there were still many hundreds that did
venture, and were well paid for doing so.
And when it is taken into consideration
that Sister Zina D. H. Young was at Salt-
air, the place appointed for the great cele-
bration, from 10 a. m. until 7 p. m., and
received no harm but was feeling quite
well the next day, it is easy to believe that
no participant received anything but good
from the day’s outing.
	A description of how the tables were
spread and the edibles served and enjoyed,
or of the dancing and gaiety with which
the celebration closed at 10 in the evening,
can hardly be given space in this brief
notice. Those pleasant festivities, however,
will long be remembered with peculiar
satisfaction by many of the younger and
gayer portion of the committee. And the
program proper was excellent.
	At three o’clock when Elder B. Morris
Young announced that the program was
about to commence, a happy circumstance
occurred for rather a small part of the
listeners. It was that they found them-
selves in comfortable seats near enough to
the stand to be able to hear distinctly what
would be said from it. The only regret
then for such ones was that so many of
their friends were not equally well provided
for.
	Some of the members of the Temple choir
with their conductor, Brother Charles J.
Thomas, opened the exercises by singing
President Young’s favorite hymn, “O, my
Father,” in the old, familiar tune to which
it was first sung. This brought tender re-
membrances of childhood’s days, when
“little Mormons” learned to sing those
soul-inspiring words in their humble homes,
and to better understand their true relation-
ship to Deity because of the grand lesson
they so plainly teach. To one “little Mor-
mon,” at least, those lines were a first intro-
duction to the name of their gifted author,
Eliza R. Snow.
	After prayer by Elder Royal B. Young,
and singing again by the choir. Apostle 
Brigham Young made a short but feeling

[Column 2]
address, in which reference was gratefully
made to the appropriateness of the gather-
ing in honor of his father’s memory. And
he blest the people much as his father used
to do in such assemblies.
	Apostle F. M. Lyman told of the great
love the Prophet Brigham Young had for
his people, his wisdom in leading them,
and the consequent love and confidence
the people always felt and manifested to-
wards him. Choice selections by the band
were next rendered.
	Senator Joseph L. Rawlins claimed for
Brigham Young the right of recognition as
a great man, not only among his own peo-
ple, not only in his own nation, but in the
history of mankind; and said that ere long
his statue would be placed alongside of
those of other great men in the statuary
hall at Washington. The enduring super-
structure upon which this State—regarded
as one of the most substantial, intelligent
and progressive in the Union—has been
erected, the Senator attributed to the wise
and earnest teachings of Brigham Young to
his people.
	Governor Heber M. Wells, in tender,
loving memories of his “great, dear, kind
Uncle Brigham,” his “father’s best friend,”
spoke the sentiments of a large majority of
the people of Utah who were little children
in the early days of its settlement. The
tribute he paid to Brigham Young’s great-
ness and goodness, the grandeur of his
character, gave voice to the impressions
which are stamped indelibly upon the
hearts of thousands and tens of thousands
of those who were children thirty, forty and
fifty years ago. Of the greatness of Presi-
dent Young as a leader, a statesman and
builder, and his goodness as a kind and
wise father of his people, and friend of man-
kind, nothing seemed to be omitted in the
Governor’s remarks. It was clearly shown
that none but a large-souled, generous and
pure-hearted man, highly favored, inspired
and endowed with power from on high,
could have been what Brigham Young was,
or accomplished the work which he did.
	Judge Kinney, who was chief justice of
Utah Territory some years in the Fif-
ties, and came here recently from California,
was introduced to the assembly and re-
ceived with warm applause. For he was
remembered by many as “a friend to Brig-
ham Young and his people,” an unusual
 thing for a government official in those
early days of misrepresentation and perse-
cution.
	By the Judge was given a character
sketch of President Young, illustrated by
telling incidents with which he was himself
personally connected. He placed the great
leader in the true light of a mighty man,
wise, just, honest and benevolent.
	While Judge Kinney related historic cir-
cumstances of more than forty years ago, a
certain copy of the Deseret News presented
itself to the mind’s eye, recalling vividly to
memory the fact that the Judge had, dur-
ing those days of his residing in Utah,
suffered a great loss which might have
helped to strengthen the bond of sympathy
which was created between himself and the
man of whom he was speaking. Surely he
had known sorrow, and evidently the voice
of sympathy found utterance for him. The
copy of the News referred to contained
something in connection with the name of
the speaker which made so deep an im-
pression upon the mind of a child as to be
distinctly remembered while listening to
his words, although not seen, perhaps

[Column 3]
not thought of, for years and years. The
well remembered article was as follows:

LINES
Affectionately inscribed to Judge and Mrs. Kin-
ney on the death of their little son Renfrew.
BY S. E. CARMICHEL.
THE BEAUTIFUL ONE WITH GOD.
“The roses bloom, the roses fade;
The sunlight comes and goes;
The moonbeams weave a silvery braid,
With the white, drifting snows.
But the call of spring will never bring,
Nor the smile of the morning wake,
The floweret fair with the shining hair,
That the angels came to take.
And never again will a path of pain
By his shuddering feet be trod;
There are no tears in the coming years,
For the beautiful one with God.

“The roses bloom, the roses fade,
Fade over his early sleep;
O’er the soft brow under the grasses laid,
Stilled by a calm so deep!
But the look of care on his forehead fair.
The smile that his bright lips wore, 
And the soul replies of his sunny eyes,
These are of earth no more.
These were not laid ’mid the grasses’ shade,
Nor pillowed beneath the sod;
And they live unveiled where the stars are
	paled,
With the beautiful one with God.”

	To conclude the program, Dr. Seymour
B. Young sang another favorite song of
President Young’s, “Hard times come
again no more,” the congregation joining
in the chorus. With this came pleasant
memories of how the doctor used to sing
in former days; and how our mothers have
told us of still earlier times, when the 
brother Joseph and Brigham were called
“The sweet singers of Zion.”
	The benediction was pronounced by
Stake President Angus M. Cannon.
	Although socially the celebration was an
admirable success, on account of the threat-
ening aspect of the weather the attendance
was not sufficient to secure financial satis-
faction The returns, if there were any,
after expenses were all paid, were so small
that the committees design making another
effort in the near future, to raise means by
which to assist in paying off the still re-
maining indebtedness for the Brigham
Young Monument.
	The fact that Presidents Lorenzo Snow
and Joseph F. Smith and several of the
Twelve Apostles were present at Saltair for
a portion of the day, should not be over-
looked, although none except those already
mentioned took part in the program.
