OUR GOD AND HIS PROPHET.

Our God—the God of Abraham,
   Isaac and Jacob, Prophets true;
The Great Omnipotent I Am:
   Let earth proclaim Thy praise anew!

Taking unto Thyself Thine own,
   Thy people mourned a Prophet dead;
Yet when twelve days had scarcely flown,
   Thou gav’st another in his stead.

Let Saints extol Thy name, and praise
   Thy matchless power to guide and bless;
Thy wond’rous work, in latter-days,
Thou cuttest short in righteousness.

Thy Prophet, as in days of old,
   Into Thy Temple dost repair:
Thy love doth marvelous light unfold,
   In answer to his fervent prayer.

With mighty faith he humbly kneels,
   To ascertain Thy holy will:
Thy grace the sovereign mind reveals;
   Thy promises Thou dost fulfill.

The vail ’twixt Thee and man withdrawn,
   Thy people understand and know,
In place of Wilford Woodruff, gone,
   Thou gavest them Lorenzo Snow.

By Joseph Smith and Brigham Young, 
   John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, all,
He's nobly stood and labored 'mong
   Thy chosen people, great and small.

No truer friend hath Prophets known,
   No truer Prophet Saints need seek,
Than he to whom Thy mind is shown, 
   And by whose mouth Thy voice doth
	speak

One like to Moses, faithful proved,
   With sight undimmed and form erect, 
For more than eighty years, unmoved—
   Shall nations scoff? Will Saints reject?

"A full, free tithe the Saints must pay,
   From this time on”—God’s just demand:
Hear it, repeat it, and obey— 
   Ye Saints of God on every hand!

Thus doth the Prophet’s voice declare;
   So shall the Saints be justified;
Shake off the burdens, hard to bear,
   Of self-will, covetousness and pride.

Look to the God of Abraham,
   Ye Saints, and heed His Prophet’s voice;
Honor and serve the Great I Am,
   And in His covenant rejoice.

Spread Zion’s bound’ries far and wide,
   Her Center Stake redeem and build;
So shall our God be glorified, 
   His Prophet’s words be all fulfilled.

Let Zion’s children know and tell,
   Near and afar, where’er they go,
There is a God of Israel,
   Whose Prophet is Lorenzo Snow.
			   L. L. GREENE RICHARDS,
Sunday, July 2nd, 1899.


[Column 1]
WOMEN'S INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL.
	The reports of the Women’s International
Council which have reached this country are
meagre and inadequate, but it is clear that the
Council was a success, both from the exul-
tation of its friends and the growls of its
enemies. A correspondent of the N. Y.
Tribune says:
	"London has offered many unique attrac-
tions for the throngs of visitors this week.
The Woman’s International Council, with
scores of famous women from Europe,
America and the colonies, has been a re-
markable tournament of wit, wisdom and
tact. The House of Lords threw down the
gauntlet in ungallant style on the opening
day by amending the London bill with a
view to shutting women out of the new
Metropolitan Councils. The action of
these three hundred peers, who only turn
out for full dress parade in order to snub
women, frown upon deceased wives’ sis-
ters and affront Erin, has not interfered
with the Council’s leisurely and contempla-
tive rambles in every field of discussion
under the sun. With more than fifty
meetings and the best platform talkers of
the sex to address the delegates, this parlia-
ment of women has been a triumph of or-
ganization, moderation and good sense. If
it has done nothing else, it has offered con-
vincing proof of the remarkable talent of
women for public speaking and the wide
range of their interests under modern con-
ditions of education.
	"Apart from the passage of a resolution in
favor of arbitration, the Council has not
taken definite action on any subject, and
Lady Aberdeen’s presidential address sug-
gested no other motive for the assembly
than the Golden Rule of love, which was a
generalization sufficiently broad for a
World’s Congress, but was neither sensa-
tional nor revolutionary.
	"Lady Aberdeen has been the most con-
spicuous figure of the Congress, presiding
with dignity and grace. Miss Anthony
has excited more enthusiasm than any
other speaker, and the American delegates
generally have done the best work. Among
these are Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Stets[-]n,
Miss Genevieve Ward, Mrs. Cynthia West-
over Alden, Miss May Shaw, Mrs. May
Wright Sewall, Mrs. Fannie St. J. Gaffney
and the Rev. Anna Howard Shaw. The
most interesting meeting was that presided
over by Mrs. Kendal, when the drama as a
field for women was considered. Mrs.
Flora Annie Steel, Mrs. Kate Douglas
Wiggin and Lady Lindsay were the chief
figures at a similar meeting under the
head of literature. The delegates have
been entertained at Stafford House, Fulham
Palace and many private houses."
	The London Society of American Wom-
en gave a luncheon at the Hotel Cecil in
honor of the American delegates on July 3.
Mrs. Hughes Griffin, the president of the
society, occupied the chair, flanked by
Lady Aberdeen, the president of the Wom-
en’s International Council, on the right,
and Mrs. Choate, wife of the ambassador,
on the left. The tables were decorated
with red, white and blue flowers, and

[Column 2]
American and British flags were displayed
behind the chair. There were 250 persons
present, all of them women except the
brother of Miss Leonora Jackson, the
violiniste, who plays accompaniments.
	Mrs. Hughes Griffin gave an address of
welcome to the American delegates, and
Lady Aberdeen, on behalf of the Women's
International Council, thanked the Ameri-
can women for the help and inspiration
they had given to women in general. "We
are indebted to the American women," she
said, "for many grand ideas. Much of the
increased brightness of our lives is due to
the fact that it is now granted that women
have a sense of humor."
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall, vice-president
of the Council, said that America was be-
coming a country which, by the necessity
of its institutions and relationships, must
move toward internationalism. Mrs.
Charlotte Perkins Stetson and Mrs. Jennie
C. Croly also spoke.
	At one meeting of the Council, which
was devoted to agriculture, Mrs. Alexander
Tweedle presided. Prof. Robertson, of
Canada, said he considered agriculture a
most suitable occupation for women. Lady
Vernon said that dairying was pre-eminent-
ly woman’s work. She urged that atten-
tion be given by women to butter-making
in winter and cheese-making in summer.
Mrs. Virginia C. Meredith, of the School of
Agriculture at the Minnesota State Uni-
versity, advocated stock breeding for wom-
en. Mme. Delen, of Bruges, spoke on the
women’s agricultural work in Belgium.
Mrs. Margaret A. Caine gave an exposition
of silk culture as an occupation for women,
and Mrs. Alexander described ostrich
farming by women in New Zealand.
	At the meeting devoted to women fac-
tory inspectors, the Hon. Mrs. Lyttleton
presiding, a paper by Mrs. Carlyle, of
Canada, was read by Mrs. Carty. It
showed the strides made in Canada in re-
gard to women inspectors and labor legisla-
sion in general.
	"The Scientific Treatment of Domestic
Servants," was another subject discussed.
Mrs. Gates, speaking of the necessity of
training the lady of the house as well as
the servants, complimented the Queen,
and declared that "this queenly woman
and womanly Queen" had had an influence
upon women as mistresses of servants as
well as in other relations of life.
	Dr. Garnett, who presided over the con-
ference of women librarians and indexers,
said that England was far behind America
in paying women librarians.
	Countess Bective presided over the meet-
ing which discussed the aptitude of women
in handicrafts.
	On the afternoon of July 4 the delegates
were entertained at a garden party by Lady
Rothschild at Gunnesbury Park, and in
the evening the Countess of Aberdeen gave
them a farewell reception.—Ex.


KNOWLEDGE is better that wealth, yet
how many people there are in this wicked
world who prefer the inferior article.


