WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
AFTERNOON SESSION, EMERY STAKE.
Afternoon session. After the opening
exercises Sister Fullmer addressed the con-
ference. She testified to the power of God
that had been made manifest in her day;
she hoped the testimony would ever re-
main with her.
Sister Jane C. Childs, first counselor of
the Stake, reported the conference news of
Salt Lake City, and urged a general better-
ment of the sisters of the Stake. Spoke at
some length on the silk industry, exhibited
some samples of Utah silk and many
pamphlets on sericulture, presented to her
while in the city by Sister Margaret A.
Caine of the Utah Silk Commission.
Sister Ann Pulsipher, second counselor
of the Stake, said it was through the bless-
ings of the Lord she was able to attend this
conference; she was a living witness of the
power of healing in our day. She knew
these gifts were with this people, or she
would not be with us at the present time.
Sisters Hansen, Cheshire, Grange, Hitch-
cock and Killian each bore a faithful testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel.
The officers were presented by J. E.
Childs, and unanimously sustained.
In the evening a meeting was held,
Brothers Lambert and Pulsipher being the
principal speakers, which was of interest to
both old and young.
Conference adjourned to meet at Orange-
ville in October.
ST. GEORGE STAKE.
On May 19th, 1899, in the evening, a
Stake Relief Society meeting was held in
the St. George Tabernacle, President Ann
C. Woodbury presiding. This meeting had
been specially appointed for the purpose of
meeting with Sisters Jane S. Richards and
Minnie J. Snow. Sister Lyman and
Sister Josephine, R. West, Apostles Rich-
ards and Lyman and President Seymour B.
Young were also present.
After opening exercises President Wood-
bury made a few remarks welcoming our
visitors, followed by Counselor Mary G.
Whitehead, whose remarks were timely
and to the point.
Sister Jane S. Richards then spoke, ex-
pressing regret that our dear Aunt Zina
could not be with us, and delivering a lov-
ing message from her to the sisters in St.
George Stake. She thought it our duty to
cultivate faith, charity to the erring and
love for each other. We should be kind to
those who despitefully use us, speak well
of people while living, and not wait until
they are dead to say a good word. It is
necessary for us to have trials, and she was
thankful for them. Related many inter-
esting experiences of her labors as a mem-
ber of the Relief Society.
Sister Lyman bore an earnest testimony
to the truth of the Gospel.
President Ann C. Woodbury spoke on
the silk industry, exhibiting a piece of silk
recently woven in St. George, that was in
all ways creditable and encouraging.
Apostle Lyman testified to the great
work accomplished by the Relief Society in
assisting in building meeting houses, taking
care of the sick and providing for the poor.

[Column 2]
Suggested a remedy for a weak and illy
attended society. This was for every mem-
ber to make it her business to advocate the
society, until every married woman was a
member actively engaged in its labors.
Asked the sisters to help their husbands,
brothers and sons to pay a full tithing.
Spoke also of the interest taken by Presi-
dent Brigham Young in the southern
country, and the fact of his having lived
here a part of his time, and thought the
people ought to be very grateful for it. He
referred to Apostle Erastus Snow in his
labors here, and thought him only second
to Brigham Young as a colonizer and pio-
neer.
Apostle Richards congratulated the sis-
ters on their large congregation. He appre-
ciated the hardships the society had
undergone, and was glad we had been
favored in building and dedicating the first
Temple reared in Utah. He paid a grace-
ful compliment to the sisters and the Relief
Society by saying that if he wished any-
thing well done, he would put it into the
hands of the society. Advised the estab-
lishment of a certain age as the time
when the sisters might be expected
to join the Relief Society. He was pleased
with the report of the silk industry, and
blessed and encouraged Sister Woodbury
in her labors in this line.
Sister West testified to having been a
member of the Relief Society since her six-
teenth year, and had greatly enjoyed her
labors therein. Spoke a short time in
favor of the Primary Association, of which
she is an aid. Suggested the teaching and
practical application of the principle of tith-
ing to the children. In their Stake they
had sent in nickel contributions to the Salt
Lake Temple to the amount of $225.00, be-
sides assisting in other enterprises. She
felt it a great honor and blessing to be one
of President Snow’s party, and thanked the
people for their courtesy.
It was unanimously voted that all pres-
ent send their love to “Aunt Zina.”
Closing remarks were made by Sisters
Richards and Woodbury. Benediction was
pronounced by President D. D. McArthur.
