AN INTERESTING LETTER.
			
Butte City, Montana, June 20, 1899.

Editor Woman's Exponent:

	Agreeable to promise to write to you
from this place, I now undertake to do so.
	I left Salt Lake City on the O. S. L.
9:45 a. m. train, May 16th, for this place,
in response to a telegram informing me of
the serious illness of my granddaughter,
and requesting me to come.
	It being my first trip out of Utah since I
entered it a little child in 1848, I did not
much like the idea of starting out under
such distressing circumstances; but ‘‘neces-
sity knows no law,” and in response to
the call of distress from her children, a
mother will not stop to discuss the order of
her going, but go.
	The journey was accomplished without
any incident worthy of mention, except the
extreme anxiety of mind which I endured
concerning the condition of my grand-
daughter: whether I should find her dead
or alive at my journey’s end.
	The beginning of the journey being
over roads which I had traveled before,
nothing new presented itself to my view
until I reached Pocatello, where a short
stop occurred. My impression of the
town, from what I could see, was a long
row of shops, stores, etc., with scarcely any
residences in sight, which made me won-
der where all the people lived who patron-
ized them. Then on, over hills and rough
places, going after dark through places
that were new to me, so that I was pre-
vented from seeing much that was really
new. 
	Arriving at my destination at 1:05 a. m.
of the 17th, I was met by my grandson
with a carriage and taken to 206 W. Mer-
cury St., where I found my little grand-
daughter out of danger, thanks to our
Heavenly Father, who honored the ad-
ministration of His servants, Elder Chris-

[Column 2]
tian Williardson, Andrew King and Charles
O. Dickson, who had been constant in
their attendance upon her before I came,
and the care of an excellent physician.
	But with her recovery our troubles were
not over. On the day of her leaving her
bed my daughter was stricken down, and
the doctor, after working with her for a
time,told us that she was in a dying condi-
tion and had not probably over two hours to
live, and asked if we wished to call in any
one else. We told him that we had all the
confidence in him that we could have in
any physician, but I said to him: ‘‘There
is One who can do what you cannot do,
and He is God, and His authorized ser-
vants are here, and He will honor them.”
He said: “All right, if you can do anything
you had better do it quick.”
	We sent for the Elders, who came and
anointed her with oil and laid hands upon
her, and she revived immediately. And
when the doctor came in the next morning,
he said he had never seen anything like it
before in his life, her pulse and tempera-
ture being perfectly normal and she prop-
ped up in bed smiling and looking well.
	Then began a struggle which lasted
about a week, in which she suffered two or
three relapses, when it seemed as though
death would claim the victory. But the
Elders stood by us nobly day and night, as
many as five of them surrounding her bed
in circle prayer when she seemed to be dy-
ing, after which she would revive and ap-
pear to be getting well; and at last, I am
happy and thankful to our Heavenly Fath-
er to be able to say, she is on the road to
complete recovery, although at the end of
two weeks of illness she could not walk one
step.
	I am not able, under the circumstances
which have prevented me from going out
much, to tell you much about Butte, ex-
cept what I have observed from our front
windows, which, by the way, are very
favorably located for the purpose in some
respects.
	There are three things that I have
been able to see without going abroad:
	First: All the funerals from the Catholic
Church (and Butte is principally Catholic)
have to pass our house on their way to the
cemetery, and in consequence we see from
one to five almost every day, anywhere
from one block to one mile in length; and
as the service only occupies about ten min-
utes, there is no tedious waiting one for
another, and we sometimes see three or
four within an hour; and once we saw a
double funeral of two miners who were
killed: two hearses and two long rows of
carriages walking abreast. It was quite a
solemn sight.
	Second: The cripples who daily pass the
house on their way to the hospital around
the corner, their limbs gone, limping,
walking on crutches, heads bandaged, etc.
	Third, last but not least by any means:
The throngs that go to the Catholic church
from 6 a. m. until 12 m. on Sunday, there
being a separate mass every hour, and a
new crowd at each one. Every Sunday
forenoon it looks like our conference at
home.
	One week ago last Sunday we saw fifty
or more little girls going to their first com-
munion, all dressed as brides, in white,
with long veils and orange blossoms; in-
deed they are called the brides of Christ.
I regretted that I had not the opportunity
of witnessing the ceremony.
	The little branch of the Church of Jesus

[Colum  3]
Christ of Latter-day Saints here in Butte
numbers about sixty, and is ably presided
over by Brother Christian Williardson, of
Ephraim, Sanpete Co., who, with Elders
Andrew King, Jr., Hyrum M. Larsen and
Sorenson of Cache Co., and Charles O.
Dickson of Provo, Utah, form a power
here for good in spreading the principles of
the Gospel and administering in the or-
dinances thereof.
	They have a Sunday School and Relief
Society, the latter presided over by Sister
Nellie Yanney, with Sister Andrews and
Sister Sarah Larson as counselors, Sister
Larson having been set apart last Sunday
evening. Sister Watt is secretary of the
society.
	The Elders’ headquarters and place for
meetings, socials, etc., is at 902 Utah Ave.,
S. Butte.
	I have had the privilege of meeting with
the Saints in their regular Sunday after-
noon and evening meetings, also Relief
Society meetings, and have enjoyed the
good influence which prevails there, for I
know that it is of God; and I regret that I
did not have the opportunity of meeting
with them upon their festive occasions,
which occur once a week in the form of a
social party.
	The birthday anniversary of President
Young was duly celebrated, and the Relief
Society will in a few days celebrate their
first anniversary.
	Well,although I did not get to see much,
I might occupy more space in describing
my impressions of people and things that
I have met, but my letter is already per-
haps too lengthy, so I will close with kind
love and a hope of seeing you in the near
future.
		Your sister,,
