TO MY CLASS.
Farewell ! strange sounds the word, strange and
     sad;
   The sun shines less brightly, dark shadows appear;
It means a change has come, we are not glad,
   And perchance there falls a regretful tear.

Farewell ! the vista of the future seems long;
   We are deprived of those to us so very dear;
On the still air falls the farewell song,
   Its melody wafting softly far then near.
 
Farewell ! tenderly bursts the sad refrain;
   Farewell to this class, to me so very dear—
Hope shines on the path before, we'll meet again,—
   Glad summers come with every passing year.

Land nor seas can change memories of the Past,
   The Past where live the dear ones we have loved,
Our friends through weal or woe unto the last,—
   Engraved on my heart are your names, my be-
	lov’d.

But now farewell ! 'tis but the chimes of a bell,
   That warns us of time swiftly speeding along;
And soon in the past they solemnly tell
   We’ll forgotten be, like the notes of a song.

Not so love; it lives forever, knows no decay,
   The heart where love dwells sings a living song;
Upward it leads to mansions far away,
   Where life, and joy, and happiness belong.

If mad surges roll, cling close to your God,
   See His outstretched hands just over the way; 
When like children weary we sleep ’neath the sod,
   May we meet up above in the courts of day.


Sing on Life’s journey Hope's, inspiring song,
	The future will brighten, flowers will spring,
What seems a dark shadow or the way so long,
	May sweet messengers be, and blessings bring.
						L. D. ALDER.
	Theological Class, Second Ward, S. L.,  City
May, 1899.


On the 8th of July there will be a grand
Primary excursion to Saltair.  Everybody
come and see the children.  Good program
and prizes for both boys and girls.


Save Your Money!
And when you set a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW.
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

