		BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of the conference of the Relief
Society of Bear Lake Stake, held in the
Paris Tabernacle, Sunday June 11th, 1899.
	Meeting was called to order at 9:30 a. m.
by President Julia Lindsay. The choir
and congregation sang, “Our God we raise
to Thee.” Prayer by President William
Budge. Singing, “Softly beams the sacred
dawning.” Roll called: Stake officers
present, six; Society officers, ten.
	President Lindsay said that words failed
to express the gratitude of her heart on this
occasion when we are permitted to meet
under such favorable circumstances and
have with us Apostle Franklin D. Richards,
Sisters Jane S. Richards and F. S. Rich-
ards.
	Apostle Richards said: “The sisters
have requested me to occupy the time this
morning, which I will do cheerfully. I
shall have to leave your meeting before it
closes, in order to fill an appointment in
Salt Lake City tomorrow. My feelings
have been touched by the kindness which
has been shown us since we have been
here, and I rejoice greatly in mingling with
you. This glorious work was commenced
by the boy Joseph in 1820; he accomplished
a great deal from then until 1844. The
Saints will go to Jackson Co., when certain
things have been accomplished. When
the proper time comes, the Lord will open
the way before us.”
	The speaker then dwelt at length upon

(Column 3)
the law of tithing. Said the Saints were
plainly shown the necessity of its observ-
ance, and the blessings to be enjoyed by
those who are honest with the Lord. He
had seen its beginning, and had endeavored
to observe it from that day until the present,
and knew there was great satisfaction in so
doing. Everything we possess should be
tithed. Invoked heaven’s blessings upon
the Saints.
	Sister F. S. Richards had very much de-
sired that in Apostle Richards’ remarks he
would direct a few words to the sisters.
Said: “Though there are many of the
brethren who are willing to aid us, there
are none more willing to labor with and
encourage us than is he.” Spoke of the
great influence our sisters have among
ladies who do not belong to our Church.
We mothers and daughters should care
more for our bodies; we should have a
proper understanding of physical laws.
We should understand the training of chil-
dren, the most important work we have.
Emphasized the great necessity of young
ladies attending Relief Society meetings,
and thus be benefited by the experience of
our older sisters, and partake of the holy
influence we feel in mingling together.
	President Wm. Budge was exceedingly
pleased to hear the law of tithing discoursed
upon by Apostle Richards; the Saints need
awakening to its importance. One tenth
of all we possess belongs to the Lord, and
if we keep it we are robbing Him. Now
is a time for a more full development of
our spiritual nature. "May God bless and
help us to carry out that which we
know to be true; which I ask in Jesus
name."
	The choir sang "The song of the re-
deemed.” Benediction by President James
H. Hart.
	Afternoon session was called to order at
1:40 p. m. by President Lindsay. After
the usual devotional exercises the verbal
reports were given as follows:
	Paris 1st ward, President Jane Stucki;
Paris 2nd ward, President Ashley; Ovid,
President Jensen; Lanark, President Par-
ker; Liberty,Counselor Nora Austin.
	President Lindsay called for a report
from North Liberty; stated that the society
having just been organized there would be
nothing particular to report.
	Bern was reported by President Kunz;
Bennington, President Vanorman; Mont-
pelier, President Hoganson; Wardboro, 
Counselor Kutch; Dingle, President Sparks;
Thomas Fork, President Dalton; Bloom-
ington, President Patterson; St. Charles,
Secretary S. Young; Fish Haven, Counselor
Stock; six societies not reported.
	President Lindsay said it would be folly
for her to occupy the time when we have
with us the sisters who have come from a
distance to visit us, as we are all desirous
of hearing from them. “You are all aware 
of the death of our beloved sister and my
counselor, Elizabeth Collings, with whom
I labored without a jar for years. It is
necessary for me to have another counselor 
to assist me.”
	It was then moved, seconded and carried
that Sister L. M. Hart act as first counselor
in place of Sister Collings; also that Sister
Mary Bagley act as second counselor.
	Sister Jane S. Richards complimented
the sisters on their interesting and brief re-
ports; they were given in a businesslike
manner. We shall have much joy and
satisfaction in our old age if we are always 
kind to one another, and in every way pos-


sible try to lighten each others’ burdens.
Our prayers should be sincere, they should
come from the heart; they should not be
formal, but we should ask for that which
we really desire, as we would ask an earth-
ly parent. Related some of the trying
scenes through which she had passed in the
early settlement of Salt Lake valley, and
how the Lord had provided for her in times
of need. Exhorted us all to be kind to our
fellow beings, feed the hungry, visit and
comfort the afflicted, and not utter a
word that would wound the feelings of
another. Did not advocate programs as a
rule in our Relief Society meetings.
The speaker’s remarks throughout were
excellent, and no doubt will be the means
of many living purer and more charitable
lives.
Sister F. S. Richards said we should en-
courage one another, both our boys and our
girls. Do not wait until people are dead
before we speak well of them. Sister
Richards read a poem composed by Sister
Eliza R. Snow, “The Object of Relief
Societies.” Spoke at some length in an
intelligent manner upon the necessity of
being kind to the poor whoever they may
be.
President Lindsay hoped we might have
sufficient of the good spirit to enable us to
practice the good teachings we have heard
during our conference. Felt very thank-
ful to our sisters for their visit, to the choir
and all who have taken an interest in our
conference.
President James H. Hart expressed great
pleasure in having attended the conference.
We have enjoyed the influence of the
Holy Spirit.
The choir sang an anthem. Benediction
by Bishop Lewis.
