DATES AND DISTRIBUTION OF MEETINGS.
The meetings will open on Monday,
June 26th, at 2:30 p. m., and will conclude
on Wednesday, July 5th, with a session con-
vened at 10 a. m.
The latest revised notes of the program
show that there will be five sessions of the 
International Council, as follows:
Monday, June 26th, 2:30 p. m., in the
Large Hall, Westminster Town Hall.
Wednesday, June 28th, 10 a. m., Coun-
cil Chamber Westminster Hall.
Thursday, June 29th, 10 a. m., Large
Hall, Westminster Town Hall.
Tuesday, July 4th, 10 a. m., Large Hall,
Westminster Town Hall.
Wednesday, July 5th, 10 a. m., place
not yet selected.
The International Congress, convened
under the auspices of the International
Council is divided into sections, as fol-
lows:
I. The Educational Section, which will
hold eleven meetings, most of which are

[Column 2]
set for the Large Hall in Westminster
Town Hall.
II. The Professional Section, which
will hold fifteen meetings in the Council
Chamber in Westminster Town Hall, and
in different apartments in St. Martin’s
Town Hall. 
IV. The Political Section, which will
hold five meetings in the Great Hall in St.
Martin’s Town Hall.
The Social Section, which will hold
eleven meetings, chiefly in the Convocation
Hall of Church House, Westminster.
The number of speakers, their representa-
tive positions, and: the different countries ot 
which they belong indicate a program of
unprecedented versatility and value.
Letters yet arrive by almost every mail
asking questions, which I shall seek to
answer in this article.
I. Who are eligible to attend meetings
of the Council and the Congress? The pub-
lic meetings of both, that is, the meetings
at which the programmes are rendered,
may be attended by anyone wishing to buy
tickets. The applicatio[-]s for these tickets
are in three forms:
(a) Is for ordinary tickets of member-
ship in the Congress, the price of which is
seven shillings and sixpence, or, in Ameri-
can currency, $1.75.
(b) May be applied for by any member
of any organization affiliated to any Nation-
al Council, the price of this is five shillings,
or in American currency, $1.25.
(c) May be applied for by any official
of any organization affiliated in any Nation-
al Council.
These forms may be had upon application
to the writer of this letter. The money
for tickets must in all cases be sent to the
Honorable Treasurer, from whom tickets
may be secured, International Congress
Fund, General Post Office, London.
These tickets, it will be understood, ad-
mit only to the public meetings. The
business meetings of the International
Council are only open to the following:
The officers of the International; the ac-
credited delegates from each National Con-
gress; the honorary president and delegates
from countries where no National Councils
are yet formed.
II. Who are the delegates to the Coun-
cil? Delegates may be sent to the Inter-
national Council only by National Councils
affiliated with the International Council.
Each National Council may send two dele-
gates, who, with its president, constitute
the sole representatives of the National
Council in the International. The Nation-
al Council of the United States will be rep-
resented in the International by Mrs. Fan-
nie Humphreys Gaffney of New York, its
president, and Miss Susan B. Anthony and
Rev. Anna Howard Shaw, the delegates
elect. Mrs. Hannah J. Bailey and Mrs.
Ellen A. Richardson are the alternates
elect for the two delegates above named.
In the presence of delegates alternates will
have no place in the International Council
sessions but that of observers.
It seems very important to emphasize 
these facts. I have received many letters
from different parts of the country from
local clubs, county and state societies, in-
forming me that “So and So have been
elected delegates to the International Coun-
cil,” and asking credentials. It is very
important that it be understood that of even 
NationalCouncils only those affiliated with an
International Council can send delegates to
this body. It is well known what National


[Column 1]
Organizations and what Local Councils are
affiliated with the National Council of the
United States. All members of such
National Organizations and such Local
Councils are, through the National Council
to which they belong, members also of the 
International Council; but with the excep-
tion of the women above named these are
not delegates, and their respective organiza-
tions may not independently send delegates
to the International Council.
Besides these regular official delegates the
International Council has invited fraternal
delegates from two classes of organizations:
From National Councils not yet affiliated
with the International Council, and from
International Organizations. So many
organizations are nominally international
that are really not so, that it is most im-
portant to be extremely careful, even in
establishing so slight a bond between the
International Council and the organization
as is implied in the invitation to the latter
to send a fraternal delegate. At the present
time the following organizations, with vary-
ing claims to a recognition of their Inter-
national scope, have been invited to send
fraternal delegates: The Arbitration and 
Peace Society; the Red Cross Federation;
the International Union of Friends of
Young Women; the International Associa-
tion for the Abolition of the State Regula-
tion of Vice; the World’s Woman’s Chris-
tian Temperance Union; the Young Wo-
man’s Christian Association, and the Gen-
eral Federation of Women’s Clubs.
It is probable that to this brief list the 
International Order of King’s Daughters
will be added.
It is important that it be understood that
the above organizations have no claim upon
the International Council, excepting that
of courtesy, and that their members, unless
related to the International Council through
their membership in some organization
affiliated with the National Council, are
eligible to apply for only the ordinary ticket
of admission to the Congress.
These statements are thus explicitly made
that there may be no embarrassment exper-
ienced later. It will certainly be under-
stood that they are not made because of
any desire on the part of the officers
of the International Council to ex-
clude desirable women from either Council
or Congress; on the other hand, the most
persistent, patient efforts have been made
during eleven years to diffuse an under-
standing of the organization of the National
Council and the International. The rela-
tion is so logical that the decisions made by
the Committee of Arrangements for the
Quinquennial meeting of the Council and
for the International Congress to be held in
connection with it and under its auspices,
must be regarded, not only just to the
organizations constituting the Council, but
very generous to the organizations still out-
side of the Council. 
III. What Americans will participate in
the Council, and what ones will take part
in the Congresses?
As voters there will sit in the Internation-
al Council, Mrs. May Wright Sewall,
vice-president at large; Mrs. Gaffney, Miss 
Anthony and Mrs. Shaw, in the capacities
above indicated, and only these. But as
participants in discussions, Mrs. Maria
Purdy Peck, vice-president of the National
Council, and Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells,
second recording secretary; with the follow-
ing patrons of the National Council: Miss

[Column 2]
Mary S. Anthony, Rochester; Miss Lucy
E. Anthony, Philadelphia; Mrs. Mary S.
Bybee, Indianapolis; Mrs. Ralph Emerson,
Rockford, Ill.; Mrs. Emily Cross, Chicago;
Mrs. Emma Shafter Howard, Oakland,
Cal.; Rev. Ida C. Hulton, Moline, Illinois;
Dr. Hannah E. Longshore, Philadelphia;
Mrs. Elizabeth Claridge McCune, Salt
Lake City; Mrs. Alice Wheeler Pierce,
Indianapolis; Mrs. Virginia T. Smith, Hart-
ford, and Mrs. Lucy B. Young, Salt Lake
City, are now expecting to be present.
Many of the above have also a part in
the formal program, as have also the fol-
lowing:
Miss Sadie American, Chicago; Mrs.
Cynthia Westover Alden, N. Y.; Miss
Octavia W. Bates, Detroit; Mrs. Harriet Santon
Blatch; Mrs. Isabelle C. Barrows; Mrs.
Margaret A. Caine, Salt Lake City; Mrs.
Lavina Doch, N. Y. City; Mrs. Sarah J.
Farmer, Greenacre, Elliott, Maine; Mrs.
Susa Young Gates, Provo City; Mrs. E. B.
Grannis, N.Y. City; Miss S. Goldmarck, N.
Y. City; Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, Washing-
ton, D. C.; Mrs. Lillian M. Hollister, De-
troit; Miss Emily Howland, Sherwood, N.
Y.; Mrs. Adelaide Johnson, Washington D.
C.; Mrs. Annie White Johnson, Chicago;
Mrs. Ellen C. Johnson, South Framingam,
Mass.; Miss Helen Kinne, Columbia Uni-
versity; Miss Klumpke, Cal; Mrs. Rebecca
D. Lowe, Atlanta, Ga.; Mrs. Mary F. Lov-
ell, Bryn Mawr; Miss Maxwell, Atlanta;
Mrs. Jenness Miller, N. Y.; Mrs. Frederick
Nathan, N. Y.; Miss Plummer, Mrs. Quan-
ter, Mrs. Isabella Hunter Robb, Cleveland;
Mrs. Cornelia S. Robinson, N. Y. City; Dr.
Sarah Hackett Stevenson, Chicago; Mrs.
Charlotte Perkins Stetson, Hartford; Miss
Mary Shaw, N. Y. City; Miss Emily Sar-
tain, Philadelphia; Miss Genevieve Ward,
N. Y. City; Dr. Gertrude Walker, Phila-
delphia.
Thus it will be seen that fifty-one of the
American women who are in some way
connected with the Council and the Con-
gress expect to be present.
When do Americans go? In reply to
this very frequent question, I must say that
no ship will carry all of them. Several are
already abroad; one small party of Ameri-
cans sailed on May 25th; another large
party with Miss Anthony as its leader on
June 3rd; a small party with Mrs. Sewall
on June 8th; the last with Mrs. Gaffney on
June 14th; and doubtless many are going on
other dates.
The correspondence which has resulted
in securing so large a representation of our
countrywomen in London has covered
many months. As the date approaches and
evidences of augmented interest multiply,
women who in the beginning were invited
to a place on the program are reconsider-
ing their earlier refusals. It is in no spirit
of tit for tat that the information must
frequently be given that the place declined
has been filled by some one else.
The Committee of Arrangements sitting
in London has done an enormous amount
of work. A copy of the minutes of each
session are in my hands, and they show
painstaking preparation and an elaboration
of detail which can be conceived only by
one with experience in such undertakings.
The latest notes reveal the greatest kind-
ness and zeal on the part of the Entertain-
ment and Hospitality Committees. The
list of entertainments contains the following:
(a) Reception and welcome of the In-
ternational delegates on Monday, June 26th,
at the Westminster Town Hall, which may

[Column 3]
be attended also by members of the Con-
gress.
(b) On the evening of the same day, a
reception at the Stafford House, where the
Duchess of Sutherland with the president
of the International Council, will receive
the guests. Holders of tickets for the
sectional meetings of the Congress (after
their names have been submitted to a sub-
committee on arrangements) may purchase
tickets for this reception at five shillings
each. Invitations will be issued to the In-
ternational delegates and invited speakers
in the name of the sub-committee of ar-
rangements.
(c) On the evening of Wednesday, June
28th, Lady Battersea will invite delegates
and speakers to Surrey House.
(d) On July 1st, the Bishop of London
and Mrs. Creighton will give a party at
Fulham Palace, to which members of the
Congress will be invited.
(e) On Tuesday, July 4th, Lady Roths-
child and Mrs. Leopold Rothschild will in-
vite members of the Congress to a garden
party at Gunnersburg Park.
(f) The President of the International
Council will entertain the delegates of the
Congress at a farewell gathering on the
evening of July 4th.
Besides the above large social entertain-
ments there are forerunners of numerous
more private hospitalities.
Through this public channel I beg to re-
mind the speakers that a typewritten copy
of their addresses, if not already in the
hands of the corresponding secretary, should
be sent at the earliest possible date to her
address, Miss Teresa F. Wilson, 9 Members
Mansion, Victoria St., S. W. London.
 The preparations are sufficiently advanced
to assure us that the second Quinquennial
of the International Council, and the Con-
gress held under its auspices, with all the
subsidiary events connected with it, will
constitute an opportunity for intellectual
and social experiences of a unique character.
American women who are to go abroad
this summer, whether related to the Coun-
cil or participants in the Congress, will
surely find that an attendance upon the
Congress will largely enhance the pleasure
of the ordinary visit to London.
The Hospitality Committee has had pre-
pared with great care a list of the hotels 
and boarding houses and lodging houses,
with a statement of cost and distance from
the seat of meeting, together with other in-
formation that will facilitate the ease of
getting settled upon arrival and of getting
about to the meetings. I have already
sent out to all who I know anticipate
going to London a parcel of the latest docu-
ments relating to the International Council,
together with forms of application for
tickets, and circulars of advice concerning
boarding houses. Large numbers of these
papers remain in my hands, and will be
sent gladly upon application to women de-
siring the information which they contain.
A rendezvous for American delegates, to the
Council and American members to the Con-
gress will soon be determined upon, and
the address may be obtained upon applica-
tion to me. All delegates, participants in
the program and members of the Congress
are desired upon arriving in London to
communicate their respective addresses to
the writer at the London address given be-
low. It will be my pleasure to give every
aid to my countrywomen in making the
Congress and its advantages accessible to
them. If this article should awaken in the


minds of its readers a question which it
does not answer, I shall gladly give further
information upon application.
			MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
	Address to June 1st, 633 North Pennsyl-
vania St., Indiana.  After June 1st.  9 
Members' Mansion, Victoria Street, Lon-
don, England.


