SALT LAKE STAKE.
The quarterly conference of the Salt
Lake Stake Relief Society convened in the
Assembly Hall, Saturday, June 3, 1899, at
10 a. m. Present on the stand were Presi-
dent M. I. Horne and Counselor Clara C.
Cannon, President Zina D. H. Young,
Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith, Maria Wilcox
and Maria Nebeker. 
Meeting was called to order by President 
M. I. Horne. Singing, “Arise, O glorious
Zion.” Prayer by Sister Maria Nebeker.
Singing, “O happy home! O blest abode!”
Roll called: twenty city wards and sixteen
country wards responding. Minutes of the
morning session of the previous conference
read and approved.
President M. I. Horne was sorry to see
so few present. It was required of us by
the authorities to meet and transact busi-
ness and instruct each other, and if we did
not do so we would be the losers. The
officers of the society should make an effort
to be present. The Lord will not excuse
us for carelessness and indifference. If we
as mothers set an example of faithfulness,
our children will be apt to follow that ex-
ample. Spoke briefly on the law of tith-
ing. Hoped the sisters would be faithful
to all the duties imposed upon them,
whether of a public or private, character.
Proposed that Sister Clarissa S. Williams
be sustained as assistant recording secre-
tary, which was unanimously carried.
Sister Horne then called for reports from
twenty-one of the city branches. Very in-
teresting and instructive reports were given
by the presidents or other representatives,

[Column 2]
showing an increase in membership and
general interest. The branches are in a
very prosperous condition considering the
financial depression in the city. All were
very much interested in the work, and
were anxious to do their duty to the fullest
extent.
Sister Horne made a few brief remarks of
encouragement, and expressed her satis-
faction in the reports given.
Meeting then adjourned until 2. p. m.
Singing, “Lord dismiss, us with Thy'bless-
ing.” Benediction by Sister Maria Wilcox.
Afternoon session: Meeting called to
order by President M. I. Horne. Singing,
“Come, come, ye Saints.” Prayer by
Sister Webb. Singing, “Now let us re-
joice.” Minutes of afternoon session of
last conference read and approved.
President Zina D. H. Young was the
first speaker. Said we have left all for the
Gospel’s sake, and we should be willing to
make personal sacrifices for the same. We
need to meet often and partake of the
beautiful spirit attending the meetings of
the Saints. Gave some very timely in-
structions to mothers, telling them they
should be strictly honest and truthful in all
their actions, as children are very quick to
notice and know what mothers do. Mother-
hood is a grand privilege, and we should
honor that sacred trust. Was thankful
that the days of using the rod were past;
it was so beautiful to rule by love. Said
that she had been in the Church sixty-
eight years, and had enjoyed her life in
trying to live up to the glorious principles
of the Gospel. We want to live so that we
can have the spirit of the Lord with us al-
ways.
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith said she de-
sired to be directed by the spirit of the
Lord in every action in life. Believed in
being true to her religion and her friends.
Thought if we loved our religion we
would be truthful and honest, prayerful
and upright. Spoke briefly on the law of
tithing. Said we should live within our
means, that now is the time to learn to
love each other. God is love, and if we
would be prospered and blessed, we must
lead and not drive. Believed that inas-
much as we strive for the blessings of the
Lord, He will bless us.
Professor C. J. Thomas, Sister Maggie
S. Hull and, Sister Maria B. Winder sang
“I know that my Redeemer lives.”
President M. Isabella Horne was the
next speaker. She said that good singing
was a very great source of blessing to us
and those who possess good voices should
feel very grateful. Urged the sisters to
attend their meetings, and spoke of the
good accomplished by attending the semi-
monthly meetings. Said our faith and
works go together, and we will be judged
by them, no matter what our professions.
Spoke of the law of tithing, quoting from
the third chapter of Malachi, and referred
the sisters to the revelation in the Doctrine
and Covenants for instruction on the sub-
ject. Spoke on the subject of storing
wheat: said if the societies did not own
granaries they should store flour in cans.
Sister Sarah Jane Cannon gave an inter-
esting account of a visit in company with
Sister Emma Woodruff, to the Sevier Stake
Relief Society. They found the sisters
energetic and fully alive to their duties.
Sister Clara C. Cannon advised the sis-
ters to read the revelations of the Lord, and
be posted as to the requirements made of

[Column 3]
us as Latter-day Saints. Spoke impres-
sively of the fact that President Snow had
received a revelation in regard to the law of
tithing. Said we should teach our chil-
dren this principle it is a blessing for us to
obey it; it is to test us, bless us and
strengthen us. If we obey it, we are the
gainers.
Sister Pixton, of Taylorsville, was hap-
py to be present. Said we had had good
instructions, why do we not obey them and
put them in practice? “Let us do so; let us
keep out of debt, do right and serve the
Lord with all our might, mind and strength.
Be honest in paying tithing and in every
duty in life.” She thanked the Lord for
every blessing she enjoyed. Said we
should teach our children to honor their
parents, so that their days may be long.
Sister Mary Freeze bore testimony of the
truth of the Gospel, and said she knew for
herself that the Lord had spoken to Presi-
dent Snow concerning the law of tithing.
Hoped to be one of those worthy to help
build up Jackson County.
Sister Mary Hyde was glad to be present,
was always glad to hear the name of the
Prophet Joseph Smith mentioned. She 
knew he was a true prophet of God, and re-
joiced that we have prophets now to speak
to us and tell us the will of the Lord.
By request Sister Maggie S. Hull sang
“The Beautiful City.”
Sister Clarissa S. Williams was glad to
be present. Thought the instructions re-
ceived from the sisters of great benefit if
we would only seek to carry them out.
Thought the labors of the Relief Society a
great and noble work.
A vote of thanks was heartily given
Brother Thomas and Sisters Hull and
Winder for the beautiful music they had
furnished during the meeting.
The Relief Society presidents were re-
quested to see that reports were sent to
Secretary Augusta W. Grant, No. 14 South,
2nd East St., by the 15th of July. Meeting
was then adjourned to meet the first Satur-
day in September.
After singing the Doxology, President
Horne dismissed the meeting in tongues.
The interpretation was given by Sister 
Paul.

