		RIGBY WARD.

	Minutes of the Rigby ward Relief Soci-
ety conference held April 27, 1899.
	The meeting was presided over by
Counselor Eleanor Homer. Commenced
by singing, “O, give me back my prophet
dear.” Prayer by Sister Fanny Cellers.
Continued by singing “We thank Thee,
O God, for a prophet.” Roll called and
minutes of the previous meeting read and
accepted.
	Sister Fanny Cellers said she was thank-
ful to meet with the Saints, felt the Spirit
of God was with us, gave good counsel and

(Column 2)
spoke comforting words to those who were
in trouble. Said it was the duty of every
member to sustain those who were placed
over them: not only by donations, but by
being present at meeting and attending our
duties, that we might always be found
faithful and be united as a band of sisters,
ever striving to go onward and upward,
that when we were through with this life
we could say, ‘‘I have fought the fight and
finished the work Thou hast set me to do.”
	Sister L. J. Barrows asked God to give
her strength to fight against all weaknesses
that flesh is heir to. Made some excellent
remarks on the training of children, and
spoke of the benefits our children would
receive if we would always set them a good
example; for by so doing we were laying
up treasures in heaven, “where neither
moth nor rust could corrupt.”
	Sister Allred related some of her past ex-
periences, and spoke comforting words to
our beloved president, who was bowed
down with grief through the death of her
lovely babe.
	President S. A. Cordon said if it were
not for her faith and hope in the Gospel her
troubles would be more than she could
bear. She knew if she were worthy she
would receive her child again, and that
was a great comfort to her.
	Sister Fanny Cellers sweetly and patheti-
cally sang “Afflicted Saints.”
	Sister Eleanor Homer offered up a prayer
for the special benefit of the bereaved sis-
ter. She afterwards gave some good instruc-
tions; suggested that the Relief Society set
two sisters apart to visit the Primary Asso-
ciation every two weeks. 
	S. F. Saxton bore her testimony, and de-
sired to be ever ready to help to roll the
work along.
	Meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
Singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning.” Benediction by Jerusha Allred.
