BY REV. ANNA GARLIN SPENCER.

[Read at the National Suffrage Convention at
Grand Rapids.]
	[Conclusion.]
Bebel says ‘‘Woman was the first hu-
man being to taste of bondage.” True,
and her bondage has been long and bitter;
but like all other forms of human slavery,
the subjection of woman to man in the fam-
ily bond was at once a vast step upward
from the preceding condition. It gave
woman release from the terrible labor bur-
dens of savage life; it gave her time and
strength to develop beauty of person, and
refinement of taste and manner. It gave
her the teaching capacity, for it put all the
younger child-life into her exclusive care,
with some leisure at command to devote to
its mental and moral, as well as physical
well-being. It led to a closer relationship
between man and woman than the world
had known before, and thus gave each the
advantage of the other’s qualities. And al-
ways and everywhere the subjection of
woman to man has had a mitigation
and softening of hardships unknown to
other forms of slavery, by reason of the
power of human affection as it has worked
through sex-attraction. As soon, however,
as the slavery of woman to man was out-
grown and obsolete it became (as was Afri-
can slavery in a professedly democratic
country like our own) ‘‘the sum of all
villianies.” And today there is no incon-
sistency so great, and, therefore, no condi-
tion so brutal and outrageous, as the sub-
jection of women to men in a civilization
which, like ours, assumes to rest upon
foundations of justice and equality of hu-
man rights. It is an archaeologist and not
a woman suffrage reformer who says,
"Nothing is more natural than that woman,
the author of parental government, the
founder of tribal kinship and the organizer
of industrialism, should have much to say
about the form of housekeeping called pub-
lic economy.” The full recognition of
equality of human rights as applied to
woman has, however, not yet come even
to our own America. The passing century
has indeed witnessed a revolution in the
political and legal and industrial and social
and educational position of women; and in
our country the family life and almost all
other relationships of men and women are
purged of most of the elements of sex sub-
jection. Yet our laws still lag behind the
practice of our better people, and the funda-
mental political rights are still withheld
from, most women citizens. We all know
more or less clearly that mother-rule gave
way to father-rule, woman’s exclusive so-
cial command to man’s exclusive govern-
mental control, only that both might give
place to the equal reign of ‘‘two heads in
council, two beside the hearth, two in the
tangled business of the world.” But our
full assent in law and custom is not yet
given by ‘‘majority vote” to this last and
finest step in the evolution of social order.
	Today these considerations (especially the
failure to apply the doctrine of equality of
human rights to women, even in the most
advanced centres of modern civilization)
have an especial and most fateful signifi-
cance in relation to the women of the more
backward races as they are brought into
contact with our more modern civilization.
I said the peoples with whom we are now
being brought as a nation into vital rela-

[Column 2]
tionship, may be still in the matriarchate.
If they are not, most of them are certainly
in some transition stage from that to the
father-rule. Not all peoples have had to
pass through the entire subjection of wom-
en to men which marked our ancestral ad-
vance. The more persistent tribal relation-
ship and collective family life have some-
times softened the process of social growth
which was so harsh for women under old
Roman law and the later English common
law. It may be that the dusky races of
Africa and of the islands of the sea, as well
as our Aryan cousins of India, may pass
more easily through the stages of attach-
ment of man’s responsibility to the family
life than we, with our tough fibre of char-
acter, were able to do. If so, in the name
of justice they shall have the chance!
	But if we, who have not yet “writ large”
in law and political rights that respect for
women which all our education, industry,
religion, art, home life and social culture
express,—if we, who are still inconsistent,
and not yet out of the transition stage from
the father-rule to the equal reign of both
sexes,—if we lay violent hands upon the
backward peoples and give them only our
law and our political rights as these relate
to women, we shall do horrible injustice to
the savage women, and through them to
the whole process of social growth for their
people. When we tried to divide “in
severalty” the lands of the Indian, we did
violence to all his own sense of justice and
co-operative feeling when we failed to rec-
ognize the women of the tribes in the dis-
tribution. We then and there gave the
Indian the worst of the white man’s rela-
tionship to his wife, and failed utterly, as
in the nature of the case we must, to
give him the best of the white man’s re-
lation to his wife. When in India, as Mrs.
Garrett Fawcett has so finely shown, we
introduce the technicalities of the English
law of marriage to bind an unwilling wife
to her husband, we give the Hindoo the
slavery of the Anglo-Saxon wife, but we
do not give the Hindoo that spirit of Anglo-
Saxon marriage and home-life which has
made that slavery often scarcely felt, and
never an unmixed evil. If, today, in the
Hawaiian Islands or in Cuba we fail to rec-
ognize the native women who still hold
something of the primitive prestige of
womanhood; fail to recognize them as en-
titled to a translation, under new laws and
conditions, of the old dignity of position,
we shall not only do them an injustice, but
we shall give the Hawaiian-and Cuban men
lessons in the wrong side and not the right
side of our domestic relations. Above all, if
in the Philippines we abruptly, and with
force of arms, establish the authority of the
husband over the wife, by recognizing men
only as property-owners, as signers of
treaties, as industrial rulers and as domestic
law-givers, we shall introduce every out-
rage and injustice of women’s subjection to
men, without giving these people one iota
of the sense of family responsibility, of pro-
tection of, and respect for, women, and of
deep and self-sacrificing devotion to child-
hood’s needs, which mark the Anglo-Saxon
man. In a word, if we introduce one parti-
cle of our belated and illogical political and
legal subjection of women to men into any
civilized and half-civilized community, we
shall spoil the domestic virtues that com-
munity already possesses, and we shall not
(because we cannot so abruptly and violent-
ly) inoculate them with the virtues of civil-
zed domestic life. Nature will not be

[Column 3]
cheated. We cannot escape, nor can we
roughly and swiftly help others to escape,
the discipline of ages of natural growth.
	This all means that we need another
Commission to go to all the lands in which
our flag now claims a new power of over-
sight and control—a Commission other than
that so recently sent to the Philippines to
see what may be done to bring order to that
distracted group of islands. We need a
Commission which shall study domestic
rather than political conditions, and which
shall look for the undercurrents of social
growth rather than the more showy political
movements. We should have on that
Commission two archaeologists, a man and
a woman, and I can name them—Otis T.
Mason and Alice C. Fletcher.
	We should have on that Commission one
statesman, learned in the law, who can con-
trive ingenious and flexible jointures be-
tween the old and the new ways of living;
so that law shall be an aid to natural
development when it is to supersede cus-
tom, and not an iron hand of restriction.
We, should have a teacher on it,—one capa-
ble of divining the next steps of training
for child-life. And, last but not least, we
should have a woman on the Commission
trained in the best methods of philanthropic
effort,—best because most closely following
the laws of social advance,—one capable of
reading the present in the light of the past,
the special in the comparative atmosphere
of the general, and capable of leading the-
organization of social forces which are native
and peculiar to the existing life. We owe
this debt to the women of our new posses-
sions, and through them to the social life of
which they are already doubtless the most
unifying element,—the debt of intelligent,
understanding of their present conditions
and the conservation of all their social in-
fluences and personal dignity in the up-
holding of the national life.
	Says Lester Ward, our great sociologist:
“The sociologist and the statesman should
co-operate in discerning the laws of society
and the methods of utilizing them so as to
let the social forces flow freely and strong-
ly.” If this be true in respect to our own
national life,—and who shall gainsay it,—
it is tenfold more true in respect to those
more artificial relationships of one nation to
another, which are the outgrowth of al-
liance, subjugation, or territorial oversight.

“Take up the White Man’s burden !
Go, pilot as you may
Your new-caught, sullen peoples
Who do not know the way.
Go, teach them not with cannon,
Those fluttered folk and wild;—
But lead them, as, with yearning,
A mother leads her child.’’


