WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	Semi-Monthly Meeting convened May
18, 1899, President M. I. Horne presiding.
Singing, “Where the voice of friendship’s
heard.” Prayer by Sister Julia C. Howe.
Singing, “Though nations rise.” Minutes
read and accepted.
	Sister L. D. Alder read the appeal made
to the women of Utah on the peace move-
ment.
	President Horne asked the sisters assem-
bled if they would like to turn this meeting
into a peace meeting. We as Latter-day
Saints always want peace, but we know
that in the fulfilling of prophecy there will
be contention. When we and all the world
are calling for peace, we will unite with all
to bring about peace as far as it is possible,
we will keep the commandments of God.
She knew that the prayers of the people
would result in good. Spoke of the mis-
sion of Jesus Christ, how the people doubted
His testimony, and how they also doubt
the same Gospel today. Spoke of the in-
fluence of women, even from the beginning

[Column 2]
of the world, and of the mission of Joseph
Smith and the persecution he was obliged
to endure. Wondered if all realize we are
so near to the end, and that, as the Savior
says, it will come suddenly.
	Sister L. D. Alder said she had been
visiting the Pocatello Stake in company
with Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, in regard to organ-
izing classes in obstetrics and nursing.
There was much need of such teaching,
there are so few obstetricians and the people
are so scattered, it is so hard upon the sick
as well as those who attend to them. Dr.
Shipp has organized classes and with ap-
parent success. Sister Alder expects to go
abroad before this meeting convenes again,
but asked the sisters to pray for her in her
absence. She has had the promise to go
and labor among her kindred. Thought
the peace meeting was an inspiration from
God.
	Sister Brown said “God moves in a
mysterious way.” She thought of all peo-
ple we were the most blessed; spoke of the
peace that Temple work brought to us, ex-
horted all who could to spend one day in a
month to go to the Temple and save souls.
	Counselor Elizabeth Stevenson said all
our meetings were peace meetings; only
the Latter-day Saints could enjoy this per-
fect peace. Spoke of the blessing derived
from reading the life of the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and interesting our children in his
mission, and of the waste of time in read-
ing light literature. Said we should all be
missionaries, not waste our time. Let us
all come here often and have our peace
meetings, and induce all to come. Said
that she appreciated the necessity of having
nurses trained to care for the poor and the
sick.
	Sister Martha Morris sang “O, Jesus the
Giver,” also spoke of the sacrifices the wo-
men of God would make. Spoke of the
testimonies she had been permitted to bear
to her kindred in the old country, and
prayed that Sister Alder would enjoy the
same blessing.
	Sister Phelps said we were serving a
God of power and revelation. Said we had
been begging for peace ever since the
Prophet Joseph Smith had organized the
Church, but nothing can thwart the pur-
poses of the Almighty, and He has said
that the wicked shall slay the wicked.
	Sister Brixen spoke of the importance of
teaching our children the ten command-
ments. Spoke of the great faith Moses
manifested, thought we should strive to
keep the commandments of God. Spoke
of the blessed time when we could live
upon the earth and say, “Thy will not
mine be done.”
	Sister Annie M. Cannon said we can
not expect universal peace over the earth,
but we can have peace by living the life of
a true Latter-day Saint. Highly approved
of the movement in training nurses all
over our State.
	Sister Susanna Fenamore spoke of her
desire for peace, and her love and desire to
work in the Temple.
	Sister Julia S. W[-]olley spoke of the
peace conference, and believed peace could
be brought about only by keeping the com-
mandments of God.
	Sister Julia C. Howe believed that the
predictions of prophets would come to pass,
that Christ was the author of peace, and
that Joseph the prophet was the forerunner
of the second coming of our Lord and
Savior. We must acknowledge the hand
of God in all things, we will be numbered

[Column 3]
among the jewels if we do our duty in
assembling ourselves together, etc. Spoke
of the necessity of teaching the children the
ten commandments and the keeping of the
Sabbath day.
	Adjourned for two weeks. Singing,
Doxology. Benediction by Counselor
Webb.
