A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands 
1850.]
After exchanging tears and adieux six
wagons started on, twenty-four persons in
all, expecting to overtake a small company
at Bear river. We found the Weber river
high, the water running over the middle of
the bridge. We got safely over, called at
Brown’s Fort, where dinner was prepared
for us by a good sister whose name is
Abigail Abbot, a neighbor in Nauvoo. She
made me a present of a good cheese. Her
daughters accompanied us on horseback
several miles.
We came to Ogden river; had an almost
perpendicular hill to come down. The men
let the wagons down by the help of ropes;
had a severe time crossing the water. After
we crossed the bridge the wagons mired.
The men were in the water up to their
waists more than an hour. Mr. Tompkins
was wroth because some who got over first


[Column 1]
did not come back to help others. He had
cause to be angry. After we were out of
the water it began to rain severely. We
traveled three miles and camped at Brother
Chase's to wait for fair weather. We heard
afterwards the Weber bridge washed away
the night after we crossed over. Who can
say we did not cross in the right time?
	We came to Bear river; found President
Clark's company waiting for us. With
great exertion we got the cattle over; camped
on the bank.
	The 13th day we crossed Malad creek,
one of the most intolerable places my eyes
ever beheld. Cattle and men up to their
backs in mud for twenty rods and more.
What a world is this! thought I. Men
will travel over it, however impossible it
may seem to be. We got out of the mud
at last; camped at two o'clock. I have a
great aversion to camping before night. I
cannot feel well when a good day's drive
has not been accomplished.
	In the afternoon the company was organ-
ized, passing resolutions to keep the Sab-
bath day, likewise to have morning and
evening prayers. H. Clark was president;
W. Huntington, counselor. We have
music in the camp, two violins and a flute.
Besides there are many singing birds in this
country, which delighted me very much.
Now twenty four miles from Bear river, a
place of hills and dales. Sister C. Crosby
and I walked out among the hills. As we
were returning, two bullets whistled by our
heads; we started with fear! We came to
camp; found Hanks and Moses had been
firing guns for sport, not knowing any one
had gone out. They were admonished to
be more cautious. The evening was spent
in singing hymns and spiritual songs.
How comforting to have prayers in this
lonely spot of earth! What an idle life to
travel with ox teams! And yet no other
would do so well on such roads. I gaze
around me; see the wagons all corralled;
cattle lying down at night. Scenes of other
days come vividly to mind. What wander-
ing pilgrims we have been!
	The 18th day traveled twenty miles;
camped at three o'clock. I walked alone;
climbed upon a huge pile of rocks. From
their heights I had a full view of the sur-
rounding country. I called to mind the
lapse of ages those cragged rocks had re-
mained there! They were covered with
moss of various colors. I examined every
part of them with intense interest. I gazed
towards the valley, where I had left the
Saints; an ardent desire sprang up in my
heart that I might live to return to them.
	The 23rd, on account of the Cazyer river
being too high to be forded, we had to go
around the mountains. We came to camp
at four o'clock; called the place City Rocks.
We all went out on an exploring excursion;
returned fatigued, but much amused. The
beautiful white rocks resembling marble
made us wish they were in some location
where they could be made available.
	21st. We have been traveling over moun-
tains all day, the most delightful scenery
my eyes have ever beheld. Ridges of hills
of all sizes and shapes, variegated with
shrubbery, mostly cedar. The hills resem-
ble the orchards of New England. What a
prospect for a painter! I found stones I
called carnelian. White clay, of which the
boys made pipes, was found in quantities.
Snow storms overtook us; we could not
start till one o'clock. Mr. Tomkins found a
sheet-iron stove and gave it to me. I found
it very useful.

[Column 2]
	The 30th day, started very early, trav-
eled a short distance; came to a stream of
water called Martin's Fork. We found
written on a board, "Too deep to ford, re-
move your loading, prepare a wagon bed
for a boat." We did so and all got safely
over with hard labor. Very deep mire on
both sides. The brethren were all merry,
making a scene of amusement of it.
	The 31st, crossed one of the tributaries of
the St. Mary's river. Made a bridge of
willows, drew the wagons over by hand.
When the last wagon was over the men
commenced halloing at the top of their
voices. The next crossing was effected by
doubling teams.
	The 1st day of June crossed Martin's
Fork. The water being high, we took
everything from the bottom of our wagons
and piled them on our bedsteads; by that
means we got safely through. The same
day one of the Indian boys belonging to
the company put a can of powder into my
stove. Not for mischief; but coming in
from hunting, the stove being tied on the
outside, he thought to remove it as soon as
we came into camp, but, boy-like, he for-
got it. I built my fire and put my kettle
on. Once I removed the kettle, and lean-
ing over, stirred the fire. My cow was
grazing a little way off. An impression
came to me, as if some one had whispered,
"Walk out where your cow is and look at
her." I did so, and while I was standing
there I heard a report like a cannon fired.
I returned immediately, found my stove
blown over the top of a covered wagon. It
was crushed as with a sledge hammer. My
kettle was set upon the ground badly
bruised. The boy was severely repri-
manded, and I had serious reflections the
remainder of the day. The fact of my be-
ing warned to walk away from the spot an
instant before the explosion, caused me to
realize that a protecting care was held over
me, and that my guardian angel must have
been very near me, for which I felt thank-
ful. Some there were who felt as I did,
were serious over the affair. The more
giddy portion were disposed to ridicule the
effect it had upon me, and in their fool-
hardiness would laugh at the idea of being
solemn at the instance of so marvelous an
escape.
[To be continued.]


