		LET US HAVE PEACE

	(An address delivered by Mrs. Josie E.
Childs at the recent peace meeting at Orange-
ville.)

	Being chosen to address this large assem-
bly on a subject of vital importance to us
all, I respond with hesitancy, fearing my
inability to handle this great subject with
the intelligence that is due.
	If we look upon the world today as one
great Brotherhood, our hearts will readily
go out to all for their peace and happiness.
And I hope for the success of every nation.
	There is in the heart of every soul a love
for his native land. No melody is so sweet
to him as a national air; no music that can
stir the inner heart with greater depths; no
song that makes the wanderer’s thought
revert homeward as effectually as a song of
his own dear native land! And this is
right, and that right should be respected by
all, except when it infringes upon the
rights of others; then it ceases to be a right.
	It is a hereditary tradition matured in the
breast of man, to support and sustain his
motherland. It is a natural thing for in-
dividuals, neighbors, communities, states
or nations to differ in opinions; to aspire to
greatness above their fellows; to become
jealous of the capabilities that are apparent,
and contention, discord and strife are en-
gendered within their hearts, and enmity is
the result. When this state of affairs is
reached, it only requires a little thing to
fan into flame the burning fire of action.
And that action means, when implied to
nations, war. Nothing brings to the
heart of a patriot the spirit of revenge
quicker than an insult to his country, and
that revenge calls for bloodshed. This is
the great effect of the traditional education
that has been matured in the hearts of men
since time immemorial.
	Today not only our beloved nation, but
the entire world is in a great commotion.
War and rumor of war is extant all over
the surface of the earth; and in the words
of the great prophet: "Peace has been
taken from the earth."
	Fear has taken the place of content.
Men are called from their vocations of life
to fill the ranks in the great battles that are
pending. No more you hear from the
shop of the smith the clang of the ham-
mer in his great brawny hands on the 
heated steel at the forge, accompanied by
his mirthful song. No more the happy
farmer sings all care away, as he gently
turns the soil in preparation for the seed,
and dreams a dream of contentment in the
anticipation of a bounteous harvest of 
"golden grain," weaving the while a
pleasant thought of his loved wife and
little ones, and their wants being abundant-
ly supplied. No more the wife sings
about her work preparing the frugal meal
for her dear ones. All is changed!
	The smith's hammer lies where it fell,
when he hastened to his country's call. The 
shop is empty, he has gone. The husband,
father and son, have gone to defend their
country's honor. The song of gladness is
hushed on the lips of the once happy wife
and mother. A look of anguish and des-
pair has settled upon her face, as her gaze
follows the retreating forms of her dear
ones, whom she may never see again. And,
with her little ones, kneeling before the
Great Father who will never desert her,
she petitions Him for the safety of her
loved ones, her husband, her sons, and in

[Column 2]
her heart of hearts, sues and pleads for
peace.
	The misery and distress of war are terrible!
Want follows in its wake, and today thou-
sands are suffering the pangs of hunger—
literally starving for food that cannot be
had. Many hearts are torn with anguish
at the death of their loved ones! Many
homes are blighted; and even those fortun-
ate enough to return, through fatigue and
exposure are maimed perhaps to such an
extent they will never be able to go back to
their old occupations. And perhaps, through
the life-long suffering before them, they
will regret that they were permitted to live
at all!
	Oh, my friends, this is not a picture
drawn from the imagination, that will per-
ish through the lapse of days! There are
many poor men and boys, living and dead,
that stand as a monument of the distressing
reality of war!
	Looking at the world as it stands today,
should we not with one accord plead for
peace? Should we not seek a better way
to adjust our wrongs? Should we not
petition the law-makers of every country
to devise means that wrongs may be righted
without war? Should we not pray the
Great Ruler that He will touch the
hearts of the law-makers of the earth, and
reveal to them a more perfect system of
righting wrongs, that peace may be re-
stored to the earth again? May our efforts
accrue to bettering the conditions that exist!
	Christ said: “A good man out of the
good treasures of his heart brings forth
that which is good.” May we hope that
we all are sufficiently good that a blessing
for good may follow this move; that peace
may be restored; that the earth will yield in
its strength; that want and misery may
be banished, and prosperity take its place.


