KATE PLATTE WALKER.
	Died.—In Oak City, Millard Co., Utah, March
25, 1899, Kate Platte Walker, wife of Simeon Walk-
er and daughter of Henry and Mary Ann Roper.
	She was born on the Platte River, at Red Butte
Station, Sep. 23, 1859. Her sickness was of short
duration, but her suffering was intense; still her
faith never wavered, and she had great faith in
the ordinance of the Gospel for the healing of the
sick. The Elders were frequently called in, and
many times her sufferings were greatly relieved.
	She was permitted to see the beauties of the
world she was going to, and described them to
those around her; also told of seeing some of her
friends who had gone before. 
	Her husband and children could not resign
themselves to part with the wife and mother they
loved so well, and clung to her, praying God to spare
her to them, till she begged them to give her up
and let her spirit go in peace. Much sympathy is
felt for her aged father to whom she was devotedly
attached, and for her sweet little babe only six
months old. Father, sisters and friends will do all
they can for the little one, but a mother’s love she
will never know.
	Sister Walker was a member of the Relief Soci-
ety, having served as a teacher for fifteen years.
She also belonged to the ward choir and the Y. L.
M. I. A., and was a great favorite generally. Her
place cannot be filled. She was the mother of
nine children; two she has with her, the others are
left to mourn her loss.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 
	Whereas the Ruler of all has in His wisdom re


moved by death from our midst our beloved sister
and friend, Kate Platte Walker; and
	Whereas the long and intimate relation we have
held with her as a member of the Relief Society
has endeared her to us and we deeply feel our loss,
therefore be it
	RESOLVED, That her example as a wife, mother
and member of this society be held in grateful re-
membrance; and
	RESOLVED, That the sudden removal by death of
such a universal favorite is deeply felt, and the
vacancy caused by her death cannot be filled, and
with deep sympathy for the relatives we pray our
Heavenly Father to bless and comfort them.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon our minutes and recorded in our
records. 
	(Written by Mary M. Lyman at the request of
Caroline E. Lyman, president of the seciety.)


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	Minutes of the Semi-Monthly Meeting of
April 15, 1899, President M. I. Horne pre-
siding. Singing, "Arise O, glorious Zion."
Prayer by Sister H. M. Wright. Singing,
"Our God, we raise to Thee." Minutes
read and accepted.
	President Horne said all who were pres-
ent would receive a blessing. Said
we were once in the presence of our
Heavenly Father, that we were all ac-
quainted there, better than we are here.
This is a school we are passing through to
purify us for eternal glory. Spoke of the
necessity of obedience, and of the glory if
we are faithful. We only have to answer
for our own sins, none escape for breaking
God’s laws, all our acts are recorded in
heaven. Referred to Christ’s teachings
that we should pray for those who despite-
fully use us. This is what we are doing in
sending out our Elders to offer our enemies
life and salvation. "I feel that the Lord
will bless us if we attend to our duties."
Bore a testimony of the mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith. A great deal is
expected of Zion. Satan will have great
power, even to the calling down of fire
from heaven; we must pray without ceasing
that we may be able to discern the true
spirit.
	Sister Clara Cannon: "I feel that this is
a blessed privilege that we enjoy in meet-
ing together and partaking of this good
spirit. There has never been a time when
I did not know that this Gospel was true."
	Sisters Seebeck, Wright and Waterfall
each bore testimony.
	Sister L. D. Alder needed the strength
she received in these meetings. She be-
lieved those who gather here are those who
have met great trials and deep sorrows.
Spoke of the care the Lord has over us, and
sends His spirit to comfort us in time of
need; of the danger of pride, that it must
have a fall, that it is only pleasing to the
Lord to be humble.
	Counselor Stevenson: "What a joy it
will be to our young women to say in the
future, 'I was born in Zion.'" Spoke of the
magnitude of the magnanimous work being
done in the Temple, that there is no time
to waste. Exhorted all to be very select in
their reading, for that which we read im-
presses us through life.
	Sisters J. S. Woolley, Mary L. Morris
and Munn bore testimony.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by Sister M.
O. Brown.

	May 27, 1899, the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting convened in the 14th ward hall,
Counselor Elizabeth J. Stevenson presid-
ing. Singing, "Come, come ye Saints."

[Column 2]
Prayer by Counselor Elizabeth Webb.
Singing, "Our God we raise to Thee."
	Sister Stevenson said she wondered how
many were obliged to hurry unusually to
get here. We gather here to get a blessing.
Said she had been to Moab, and it was sur-
prising how the sisters there exert them-
selves to attend their meetings, they are ob-
liged to ride long distances and bring their
babies. They are very anxious to hear the
truths of the Gospel. The line is being
drawn among them as it is here, there are
so many indifferent and there is much mis-
sionary work needed at home. Spoke of
the law of tithing, and believed it was one
of the most necessary laws to obey.
	Sister Johanna Peterson bore a testimony
of the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Hardy said she thought we were
indeed a blessed people. She thought a
great many did not realize the age in which
we live. President Snow said recently that
though the Gospel of salvation is presen-
ted to the people, yet they would not ac-
cept it.
	Sister Barnes said she was pleased to
meet with the sisters to-day; that she was
anxious to train her children aright.
	Sister Brown said she liked to live so
that she could always have the spirit of the
Lord to guide her.
	Sister Harriet Ann Badger said she felt
to rejoice that she could be in attendance
today. Spoke of the grandeur of the work
of the Relief Society; that there were
30,000 women belonging to this society.
	A sister said though she had not associa-
ted with the authorities of the Church, she
knew they were prophets and apostles, and
that this was the Gospel of Jesus Christ.
	Sister Brixen spoke of her visit to Vernal,
Uintah Co., to attend the young ladies con-
ference. Said how the Lord had healed
her and permitted her to endure the long
journey. They were blessed with an
abundance of the spirit of God. Said
Apostle Lyman had advised all the sisters
to have their names enrolled on the Relief
Society books.
	Counselor Webb said we cannot be
thankful enough that we are Latter-day
Saints. Spoke of the thanks she had to
the Lord that she had the privilege of being
a worker in the Relief Society. Said she
would be pleased to have the young wom-
en join this society.
	Sister Eliza Rawlins bore a testimony of
the truth of the Gospel, a[-]d related a vision
she had that increased her faith.
	Sister Williams, from Pocatello, who was
a member there, had only belonged to the
Church four years, but she felt as if she
had always been a member. She was
taught by her mother to read the scriptures
and to be virtuous. She did not enjoy the
pleasures of the world. Related how she
had been healed and the peace brought to
her soul when the Elders laid their hands
upon her.
	Sister Tora Hafen said she was thankful
for the Gospel and that we have a Father
in heaven. Said she desired to fill the
mission that God had sent her upon the
earth to fill.
	Sister Jane James believed her Heavenly
Father knew she desired to do her duty.
Wished she could have the privilege to do
more. Prayed that Sister Zina and Sis-
ter Horne would be blessed and healed and
their lives prolonged. She then spoke in
tongues.
	Counselor Stevenson spoke of the indif-
ference of the children, and the necessity of


studying the Church  works. Announced
that next Saturday would be the Relief
Society quarterly conference.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
