AMERICAN WOMEN TAKE TEA
		WITH THE QUEEN.
	A number of the American, colonial and
continental guests of the International Con-
gress of Women having expressed desires
to pay their respects to the queen, Lady
Aberdeen arranged a trip to Windsor on
the afternoon of July 7th, when her majesty
assented to the suggestions that she should
drive slowly through the quadrangle of the
castle and receive a few of the more prom-
inent delegates. It was about twenty
minutes past five when the delegates took
up a position in front of the private en-
trance. A quarter of an hour later her
majesty appeared and Lady Aberdeen made
the presentations.
	Miss Susan B. Anthony, who, with Mrs.
May Wright Sewall, the newly elected
president of the congress, enjoyed the priv-
ilege of presentation, said to the cor-
respondent of the Associated Press after-
wards: ‘‘I had never seen the queen be-
fore, and could not but feel a thrill when,
looking into her wonderful face, I saw her,
as her life is going out, welcoming this
woman’s movement which is the precursor
of the twentieth century. What pleased
me most was when her majesty said: ‘Now,
cannot have the ladies who are visiting
me return without giving them a cup of
tea.’
	“Sir Arthur Briggs, the queen’s private
secretary, replied: ‘But, your majesty, they
are here in hundreds. ’
	“ ‘I don’t care,’ said the queen, ‘if they
are in thousands, they must all have a cup


of tea when they come to see me.’ And
we had it in the queen’s palace as a recog-
nition of the great womanhood of our
country." 
	Mrs. Sewall said: “The queen looked
ten years younger than when I saw her 
three years ago. The whole bearing of
her majesty was a symbol that she, who
has governed the mightiest of empires for
sixty-three years, has finally recognized
intuitively that she crowns her work in
recognizing the claims of her sex to equal
rights with men.”


Save Your Money!

	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.

		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
	
