TO SISTER ELIZABETH STEVENSON.

“Leaves have their time to fall,
And flowers to wither at the north wind’s breath;
And stars to set—but all—
Thou hast all hours for thine own, oh death !”

	On Friday morning, June 30th, 1899, at
8 o’clock, as the sister workers of the Salt
Lake Temple entered their weekly meeting,
a great solemn hush of more than usual
significance came over them. Sisters Zina
D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith and
Emma Woodruff, (the presidency of the
sisters in the Temple,) were there in their
accustomed places. And nearly all the
workers were present, but Sister Elizabeth
Stevenson was missing. The solemnity
which characterized the opening of the
meeting, and could scarcely be accounted
for in full, continued until its close, when
one announced that as she entered the
house the news had been given to her
that Charles Stevenson was dead! Then a
special prayer for Charlie’s motherwent up.
from that band of earnest, faithful workers
They prayed with loving fervor for every
comforting blessing to be bestowed upon
their bereaved sister, and dropped tears of
true sympathy which only those who have
themselves known sorrow could shed.
	Sister Elizabeth, if there can be any con-
solation in the knowledge that your sister
workers mourn with you the early loss of
your bright, gifted, noble boy, then be
thou comforted.

	“True until death! can more be said ?
	Unto all those who weepeth,
	May we not say of the ‘Blessed dead,’
	He is not dead, but sleepeth?’
	Sleepeth to waken, fair and young,
	When the song of the blest redeemed is sung.”
								    LULA.


WE gratefully acknowledge the gift of
some beautiful flowers from Mrs. Dow,
wife of the warden of the penitentiary.
They were very much appreciated and ad-
mired, and cast quite a cheerful influence
throughout our office.
	ABOUT 2,000 of our old people spent the
day at Capt. Dallin’s popular resort in Utah
Co., on Friday, July 7.  The R. G. W.
Railway Company furnished two fine cars
free of expense.  The resort was crowded
to its fullest capacity, and the time was
pleasantly spent in visiting, picnicing and a
short program of sports.


