OBITUARY. 
Dear Aunt Rhoda, as we lovingly termed her, 
passed from death into eternal life at Provo, March
29, 1899; and while her body rests, peacefully in 
the silent tomb awaiting the resurrection of the 
just, her spirit is associating with friends and 
loved ones gone before. 
	Mother Young was born in Putnam Co., Tennes-
see, Oct. 24, 1820.  She became a member of the 
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in 
1842.  Moved to Nauvoo, where she became 
acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith. 
In 1852 she with her husband, Adolphin Young, 
started for Salt Lake City.  She lost her husband 
by death on the plains.  She afterwards married 
Alfred D. Young, the cousin of her former hus-
band.  They went to the Muddy, where they re-
mained until the mission was abandoned. They 
then moved to Kanab, where she made her home 
until the time of her death. 
	She was left a widow for the second time in 
1889. She was the mother of twelve children, 
and had at the time of her death seventy-five 
grandchildren and forty-nine great-grandchildrne.
	Sister Young was a faithful Latter-day Saint, 
and like a shock of wheat fully ripe, she has been 
garnered into her Father's house.  "Blessed are 
they who do hunger and thirst after righteousness, 
for they shall be filled." 
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas the Lord has called from our midst by 
the hand of death our beloved sister, 
RESOLVED, That we recognize in the death of 
our worthy sister the loss of a worthy member, 
and, when younger, an efficient teacher in the 
Kanab ward.
	RESOLVED, That we deeply sympathize with the 
bereaved family in the loss of a kind and affection-
ate mother. 
RESOLVED, That we esteem her past faithful 
labors as worthy the fellowship and highest respect 
of us all.
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions be put upon 
our records, that a copy of the same be presented 
to the family, and also to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication.
		ELIZABETH W. ROBINSON.
	The angel of death has visited another house in 
Kanab ward;  Elizabeth W. Robinson, wife of 
Bishop R. S. Robinson, passed peacefully away, 
Feb. 13, 1899.
	Sister Robinson was born at Staffordshire, Eng-
land, Nov. 5, 1835.  She emigrated to America in 
1842 and to Nauvoo in 1843; was driven with the 
Saints in 1846.  She came to Utah in 1849; was 
married to Richard S. Robinson; moved to Kanab 
in 1886, where her husband had been called to 
preside as Bishop.  Here she identified herself 
with the Relief Society and became an active 
member.  She was quiet and unassuming, yet 
kind and courteous to all.
	She was the mother of twelve children, and 
leaves thirty grandchildren and two great-grand-
children.  She had been a great sufferer for a 
long time when death kindly released her.  It can
truly be said of her:  "O, death! where is thy 
sting? O, grave! where is thy victory? Blessed 
are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth." 
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas an Allwise Providence has called from 
our midst by death our beloved sister, 
	RESOLVED, That we recognize in the death of our 
sister the loss of a worthy member, an affectionate 
teacher and a good Latter-day Saint, and worthy 
the respect of all. 
	RESOLVED, That we deeply sympathize with the 
bereaved family in the loss of a kind wife and 
affectionate mother.
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions be placed  upon 
our record and that a copy of the same be presen-
ted to the bereaved family, also to the WOMAN'S 
EXPONENT for publication.
