WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
PRIMARY ANNIVERSARY AT MURRAY.
	Minutes of the first anniversary of the
West Side Murray, South Cottonwood Pri-
mary Association, held June 9, 1899, at
the West Side school house, President Mary
E. Gilbert presiding. Present on the stand
were Counselor Thomas A. Wheeler. of the
Bishopric, Sunday School Superintendent
D. B. Jones, Stake President Camilla C.
Cobb, Counselor Mary L. Morris, President
M. E. Gilbert, Counselor S. E. Jones of
West Branch, a number of aids, and officers
of other associations. 
	Meeting was called to order by Counselor
S.E. Jcnes. Singing from Primary hymn
book, “Gladly Meeting.” Prayer by Broth-
er D. B. Jones. Singing, “Open the door
for the children.” Minutes of the organiza-
tion meeting read and accepted.
	An interesting program was then very
creditably rendered by the children, after
which remarks were made by President C.
C. Cobb, who spoke upon the ancient
church as it existed in the days of the
Savior and His Apostles. She encouraged
the children to have perfect faith in God.
	Counselor Mary L. Morris, the next
speaker, called the kindergarten class to
the front and told them an Indian story of
the cliff dwellers; also told the story of
Moses in a pleasing manner.
	Counselor T. A. Wheeler spoke a few
moments. Said that all should realize the
importance of training the young people in
the straight and narrow path. Urged the
parents present to aid the officers in the
Primary Association.
	The meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock
p. m. Singing from card, “Word of Wis-
dom.” Benediction by Ray Williams.
	Afternoon session opened by singing
from Primary hymn book, “I think when
I read that sweet story of old.” Prayer by
Counselor T.A. Wheeler. Singing, “Beau-
tiful Zion.”
	A lengthy and interesting program was
then carried out. Brother D. B. Jones
spoke eloquently upon the work of the
Primary. Said let the foundation for life
be laid broad and deep; that this end can-
not be attained but by divine aid, which
must be earnestly sought for. Exhorted
all to be obedient and speak kindly of all.
	Stake Aid Millie Bassett spoke lovingly
to the children, and told a beautiful story
which charmed her hearers, both old and
young.
	Stake Aid Mary Tuddenham spoke a few
moments on the necessity of baptism when
children were eight years of age or over.
	President Mary L. Rawlins, of South
Cottonwood Relief Society, said she was
pleased to meet with the officers and chil-
dren of the West Branch Primary, and to
see so many of the parents present.
	President Howarth of the Tenth Ward
association spoke a few kind words to all.
	President C. C. Cobb gave some valuable
instructions, thanked the sisters from the
city and elsewhere for their attendance,
also told of an incident connected with
Brother James E. Talmage on the healing.
	President E. Terry, of East Draper

[Column 2]
Primary, blessed the children, and hoped
they would become good men and wom-
en.
	At President C. C. Cobb’s request Broth-
ers T. A. Wheeler and D.B. Jones anointed
President Mary E. Gilbert for the restora-
tion of her health, and asked the children
for their faith in her behalf.
	Meeting adjourned for one year. Sing-
ing “We thank Thee, O God, for a proph-
et.” Benediction by Agnes Stromness.
		E. H. Lyon, Sec.


