LOST ROSABELL.
Long ago a star-eyed maiden,
	Filled my heart with love’s sweet spell.
As comes spring with young buds laden, 
	Sweet perfume from flowering dell,
Came this maiden (sweet to tell) 
And we called her Rosabell.
She to me was summer gladness,
	Breaking e'en drear winter's spell,
Gliding all that came of sadness,
	Charming grief away as well;
Giving joy tongue cannot tell,
Little star-eyed Rosabell.

Cheeks which borrowed rose-leaf shading,
	Eyes of violet's darkest hue, 
Eden’s sunshine, too, seemed woven, 
	In her dark-brown tresses thro’.
Grace and beauty knew her well,
Little charming Rosabell.

In the trees glad birds are singing,
	In the groves and in the fens, 
Brooks and rills with music ringing--
	Sweet.the songs of tiny wrens, 
Nature’s voice with music swells;
While I mourn lost Rosabell. 

All the meadows bloom with daisies,
	Fragrant blossoms in the dells
Breathe, in mute, yet sweetest praises,
	Yea, "He doeth all things well."
Yet no whispered voice will tell,
Of my long lost Rosabell. 

All the world is full of children, 
	Of their number none can tell, 
Blossoms in time’s earthly kingdom, 
	Seraphs here awhile to dwell,
Many in my heart are held, 
Yet I mourn lost Rosabell.
Now eve's purple glooms are stealing,
	Over hillsides, down the dells,
Backward still I turn in dreaming
	To the child I loved so well.
Gone from me! (Ah, sad to tell!) 
Lost for aye—my Rosabell.
			L. M. H.


(Column 1)
A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]
			    [Continuted.]	
June 1st.  This day seven years since
my companion started on his mission to 
the Pacific Islands.  A day of days was
that to me!  Had I known on that day
what seven years’ experience would bring
to me, it seems to me one glimpse of it
would have struck me out of existence in
an instant!  It was wisely hidden from

(Column 2)
me. Sorrows mountains high have rolled
over me!  And yet I have withstood all 
the storms of adversity, am still alive, and
on my way to the Islands of the Sea to
teach the poor, dark people the Gospel that 
has cost me so much!
	The 2nd day.  Awnings are spread in
fron of our wagons where we are to hold
public worship.  Elder Joseph Busby made 
some spirited remarks.  All the speakers
acknowledged we had been signally blessed
on our journey.  The brethren decide on a 
frolic to help them over the impassable
gulphs and rocks; dust almost to suffoca-
tion.  I told the captain if he should send 
me ahead to explore I should return with
an evil report, and declare it impossible to
go that way.  St Mary’s river flows in 
grandeur here.  Dust we must have while 
we travel near it. 
	The 12th day.  Horn sounded at 4
o’clock, camp started before breakfast and 
traveled a short distance.  Stopped for the 
day to enjoy a good rain, which we have
long wished for. 
	The 14th day, A beautiful road all day.
Found a splendid camping ground; large
shrubbery on the banks of the river; good
wood.  Emigrants overtook us from Ohio,
they were out of provisions.  The com-
pany invited them to breakfast.  Sold them 
breadstuff. 
	The 15th day.  Made a blunder.  Trav-
eled ten miles in a wrong direction, a level
road but deep sand.  Came upon Capt.
Smith’s company, camped to spend the 
Sabbath.  Emigrants attended our meeting
at 2 o’clock. Brother Clark preached a 
Gospel sermon very much to the purpose.
Elder Busby bore testimony with great
warmth and readiness of expression.  After
meeting two strangers called upon us, who
said they were from Nauvoo; the very
sound of the name thrills through my
nerves!  Recollection of the past rushes to
my mind!  Emigrants from all parts are
thronging the way to the mines.  Little or
no provisions, with poor, worn-out animals.
	The 17th day.  A country of desolation
have we passed today.  Twenty-five miles 
without feed or water; barren, sandy plains.
Camped on a slough fed by St. Mary’s
river.  Our wagons stand on a ridge of 
rising ground, our fires blazing far below. 
The reflection on our white houses on
wheels presents a romantic sight.  The
moon shines with unusual brilliancy.  The
scenery in the evening is delightful.
	The 19th day.  Started on the desert;
filled everything with water.  The country
presents an exceedingly singular appear-
ance, perfectly level, has every sign of 
having been the bed of a mighty river.
The ground has a yellowish cast, without
a particle of vegetation.  Under the lee of 
the mountains there is the appearance of
water, very deceiving to the traveler; as we
approach it recedes from our view.  We
are reminded of what we have read and 
heard of an oasis, so alluring to the poor,
thirsty men and teams.  We are at length
safely over the desert; traveled till two
o’clock; rested the cattle till daylight;
started on again through deep sand.  I

(Column 3)
walked from sundown till eight o’clock. I
went into my wagon, slept awhile, then
walked again all of us till we came to Sal-
mon Trout river, ten o’clock we saw the 
water.  The poor cattle could scarcely be
kept from rushing into the river with the
wagons.  The men gave them water in
buckets, all they dared to let them drink.
	Badir, the socialist, has made trouble in
the camp by coming without supplies.
Mr. Mills, the phrenologist, who hired his
passage with him, is now destitute, like-
wise a family he engaged to take through.
Although the two men above mentioned
are not of our.faith, the brethren will not
see them want for food.
	Just over another twenty-mile desert
without feed or water; camped on the bank
of the river; a most delightful place!  The
trees are large and standing in close prox-
imity; heavy foliage.  Spent one whole 
day in settling difficulties; got them all set-
tled; retired to the grove and made a swing;
had a large rope suspended from a huge 
tree.  The moon arose about nine in all
its beauty, I have never witnessed grander
scenery! The towering trees, the mur-
muring waters, the clear blue sky be-
spangled with stars, the grand queen of 
night, all combined to make the scene
strikingly lovely!  Better than all we have
agreeable company.  The following day
traveled through deep mud and over rocks. 
Again on the Salmon Trout river; a de-
lightful place.
	The 27th.  Twenty miles today over
deep sand, not so rough as common.  The
mountains on one side covered with large 
pine trees growing quite to the summit,
from which flow out several beautiful
streams of swift running water; thick
shrubbery growing luxuriantly on either
bank; the broad prairie adorned with green
grass, resembling the meadows of New
England.  The whole scene is exquisitely
beautiful!  We have not seen on the whole
journey so rich a growth of grass.  Fare-
well to the deserts!  We have prophesied a 
settlement here in the future, one hundred
miles from the mines. 
	The 28th.  Started early and came to the 
mammoth pine trees.  I stood beneath the 
shade of one tree that would make lumber
enough to build two common houses.  To
see such astonishing trees growing out of 
sand and gravel, not a particle of soil, filled
every beholder with wonder and admiration.
We passed today beautiful streams of water
flowing down from the mountains, cold as 
ice and clear as crystal.  We have over-
taken Mr. E. Hanks's company, who left
Salt Lake valley three weeks before us. 
They have traveled on the Sabbath, we 
have not, and have gained on them.
	The 29th. This morning men were sent
ahead to explore the road over the moun-
tains.  Met travelers coming from the 
other side, who reported the road passable.
They concluded to relinquish the excursion
and to stop here several days.  The heat,
though excessive, is rendered more endur-
able by the cool breezes from the moun-
tains.  Emigrants are coming to our
camp half starved; we are compelled to


[Column 1]
feed them, cannot resist their entreaties.
Elder Moses delivered a lecture on the
doctrines of our Church, to which the
strangers listened with apparent interest.
Now at the base of the mountains of
rocks, covered with immense trees. What
supports the roots I cannot imagine. Not
the least appearance of soil. Seven miles
we traveled through the cañon, a road
too intolerable to think of. No person
looking at the opening would suppose for a
moment that wagons could pass without
being broken in ten thousand pieces! But
we came over safely, not a thing broken.
In crossing a bridge where the water was
running very swiftly, one of the cows fell
off and floated down the river as fast as the
current could carry her. The men ran
with a lariat, and hauled her out badly
bruised.
	July 6th. Now over the first mountains.
To describe the roads in justice would be
impossible. Snow, rocks and mud, per-
pendicular heights, declivities deep and
dangerous; yet we got safely over, with
only a few  trifling accidents. I rode up
the mountain on horseback; with great ex-
ertion I clung to the horse. I rode down
in the wagon, which fatigued me more
than walking would have done. Is it pos-
sible that men can love gold to that degree
that they will climb these mountains to ob-
tain it? Oh, I pity the poor cattle! How
faithfully they serve men, who are often
unkind to them! 
	The 6th day. Now on the top of the
second mountain; traveled over snow in
some places thirty feet deep. The wind is 
blowing a heavy gale, cold as Greenland.
The cows are left behind, a sad mistake.
	The 7th day. Rumbling down the
mountains all day; had to lie in bed sick;
was not able to sit up. I hope I may
never pass another such day.
	The 8th day. One of the horses gone.
Oh, the crowds that throng this highway,
going in search of gold! Crowding about
our wagons to be fed. We must feed them,
either for pay or without. They must
have starved to death had we not been
here with provisions; and we only brought
what we thought would serve us through.
I wonder our stores are not exhausted.
	Today passed “Tragedy Springs,” where
three men on their way to Salt Lake were
murdered by Indians for their horses and
clothes. They were found and buried by
their comrades, who in a few days over-
took them. A bag of gold was found on
the neck of one, which the Indians in their
fright had not discovered. It was taken to
the man’s family, and great lamentation
was made over him who had toiled to gath-
er the gold. Their graves are now a spring
of clear water, and carved on the trunk of
a large tree is the account of their sad fate.
Many travelers there pause to gaze upon
the spot, read the inscription and sigh
over the sorrowful fate of their fellow men.
The spring thus derives its name, Tragedy.
	The 9th day. This morning the men
started in pursuit of the lost horse. They
soon got on the track of Indians. They
took the squaws prisoners, hoping the
Indians would bring back the horse. They
were ensconced in the brush; the white
men dared not venture in. The two Span-
ish boys well armed rushed down. One
old Indian pitched battle with them; they 
shot at him, but not to kill. He ran
screaming; the squaws cried bitterly. Four
guns were heard at camp; the white men
returned; the boys were left behind; horses

[Column 2]
not found. Then we felt sure the poor
boys were killed. Some said, “No, they
are not killed. Have we not prayed that
all our lives might be preserved?” After
a length of time the boys returned alive, to
the great joy of the whole company. They
were good Spanish boys.
[To be continued.]


