		   NOTES BY THE WAY.
	Leaving Salt Lake City on seven o’clock
morning train, Saturday, June 3rd, 1899,
and flying over the country Eastward as
fast as possible, one cannot do much in the
way of writing, or make much study of the
scenery by the way, nor study human
nature either as one would like to do when
meeting a variety of people. It is always
pleasant and sometimes profitable (men-
tally at least) to note the people one meets
even casually, and occasionally one finds
himself specially interested in certain types
of individuals. The writer was so weary
that dismal, rainy morning and so pre-
occupied with self, having left behind the
nearest and dearest to go across the great
ocean, that she cared little for the people
about her, or the wonders of the canons;
but no one from Salt Lake City is suffered
to remain long unknown, not even in a
railway carriage. It soon transpired that
our identity was discovered and the lady in
the same section informed us that she had
relatives and old school friends in Salt Lake
City.  Finally we ascertained that she was
the cousin of our well-known and highly
respected fellow citizen, Theodore McKean,
and a schoolmate of the Ivins’s. Then
followed conversation and explanations,
and discussion of the Roberts question, etc.
Finally a lady just returning from a mis-
sion to China learned to her dismay, if not
disgust, that there were Mormons aboard,
and although she was the wife of a Baptist
minister, and had been living for many
years in China trying to teach the Gospel
principles to the “heathen Chinee,” yet
she thought herself too good to be even
polite to a Mormon woman, and seemed to
do all in her power to make things un-
pleasant. It is strange that Christian wom-
en working to correct the heathen have not
broader principles and greater charity.
	Arriving in New York Tuesday at half
past two, Mrs. Caine bade farewell to the
writer and drove to the Cosmopolitan to be
ready to sail next day.
	The heat in New York City has been al-
most unendurable, and people and horses
have been prostrated even so early in June;
while in Salt Lake and vicinity we see by
the papers that there have been heavy frosts,
ruining fruit and killing early vegetables.
We found our relatives all right and were in
time the following morning at ten for the
Conference of the Ladies of the National
Council of Women of the U.S.A. Mrs. Sewall

[Column 2]
who only arrived in NewYork the same morn-
ing was fresh as ever and in excellent spir-
ts, though she was to sail the next morn-
ing. Miss American, Mrs. Peck and Mrs.
Grannis were also present; they too were to
sail on the Bremen on the 8th. Mrs. Fan-
nie Humphreys Gaffney, the new president,
had the business of the meeting carefully
prepared and everything was dispatched in
the best manner, Mrs. Wells performing
her duty as secretary. Mrs. Mary Lowe
Dickinson, who resides in New York, was
present and with three such officers it would
have been strange if everything had not
been well and properly accomplished that
could be done within the time. It was the
first meeting since we were all in Wash-
ington, though Mrs. Gaffney had enter-
tained Miss Anthony, Dr. Shaw and Mrs.
Avery while in New York before they
sailed, and talked over some important
matters with them. About noon a de-
lightful hour was spent at the luncheon,
which consisted of delicaciesdaintily spread,
and lovely flowers that helped to perfect the
beauty of the entire arrangement. A hap-
pier group of women could scarcely be
found; no gossip, no frivolity, but ques-
tions of importance and social conversation
occupied the time, and work was resumed
immediately after the guests left the table.
This conference will undoubtedly be help-
ful in getting matters ready for the execu-
tive session in November.
	Thursday we called at the office of the
White Line steamers, Bowling Green, and
completed final arrangements for sailing on
Wednesday, June 14th.
	Friday noon left New York City to visit
relatives in New England; and every sta-
tion by the way recalled memories of other
days. The hills and woods are as green as
when a little child we wandered through
the wild wood, and as now and then when
a wayside station was reached women came
on with armsfull of wild flowers just such
as we gathered in the long ago, it was al-
most pathetic to one whose mind was filled
with girlish memories.
	The towns we whirled past were familiar
by name from earliest recollection,and when
we met the dear loved ones from whom we
had been so widely separated more than
half a century, (except once or twice a
brief visit as we flitted Eastward to attend
some congress or convention,) and then
knew we could only spend a few hours with
them, it was a pleasure “not unmixed
with pain.”
	There were many things to talk over dur-
ing the last eight years, and the time flew
on the wings of the wind. Changes there
are to be remarked but the main features of
the scenery were much the same. Laurel
Hill covered with blossoms was a delight
to the beholder, and buttercups, daisies and
the hemlock with its gracefully sweeping
boughs and soft, young tendrils, as well as
the old magnificent elms that had stood for
more than a century, withstanding the
storms of New England winters. There is
nothi[-]g in nature perhaps not dearer to the
heart, or more beautiful to the writer, than
the woods in full foliage as at this season,
unless it is the sea, and one hesitates and
knows not unless the star-spangled-firma-
ment with the new moon in the clear blue.
But one does not reason about these things,
one only admires and exclaims, for it is
past all description and all comparison.
	Tomorrow, Monday, I shall be in the
great City of New York, and on Wednes-
day at high noon, the fourteenth of June,

[Column 3]
sail for England, and will write the next
editorial after the Quinquennial in London.
Au revoir.


