					JOSIE E. CHILDS.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
JOSEPA RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The Josepa Relief Society will have been
organized ten years next October. Sister
Emily G. Cluff was the first president,
with Sisters Kapukini and Pakekepa as her
counselors. Upon the release of President
H. H. Cluff on November 1, 1890, and
the appointment of Elder William King
his successor, Sister Lucy King succeeded
Sister Cluff, but in February, 1892, Brother
King died, and H. H. Cluff was again
called to preside over the colony, and there
followed the reappointment of Sister E. G.
Cluff to the presidency of the Relief Society,
which position she has continuously accept-
ed up to the present.
	The society has had a marked increase
numerically and financially since its or-
ganization, forty members are enrolled,
with an average attendance of thirty. By
gleaning in the wheat field and by dona
tion the society has accumulated forty
bushels of wheat. Members of the society
encouraged in gathering wheat desired to
have a piece of land and cultivate wheat
this summer, but upon the suggestion of
President Cluff the society have planted an
acre into melons, which have a ready sale
among the Hawaiians, and we anticipate
realizing $100.00 with which to buy wheat.
	The Relief Society has provided itself
with a full set of dishes for a banquet suf-
ficient to accomodate one hundred and
twenty-five persons. When used for the
feasts of the colony, other than the annual
feast gotten up by the society, a fee is
charged for the use of them, in addition to
replacing breakage and loss. The number
of annual feasts of the colony aggregate five
or six. When President Joseph F. Smith
and Elders visit the colony several times
during the year the Hawaiian people de-
light in entertaining them with feasts.
	At our recent conference here we were
visited by fourteen brethren and sisters.
Among the visitors were Sister Margaret
A. Caine, who came in the interest of seri-

[Column 2]
culture. Here she met Sister M. A. Till,
of Provo, who is on a visit, and who has
for some time recommended the silk indus-
try among this people, feeling they were
well adapted to it. She fully intended try-
ing to get it introduced among them while
out here. Sisters Till and Cluff had been
to the City and County Building to see the
silk exhibit, and to ask Mrs. Caine to send
out eggs and books of instruction, with the
intention of getting the Hawaiian sisters
started in raising cocoons. Meetings were
called to explain and get the sisters inter-
ested, and Mrs. Caine showed some native
silk fabric made in Utah, and gave such
information as would induce the sisters to
go into the enterprise. Elder Robert Tay-
lor, a missionary to the Islands, and who
had had some experierce with his mother
in raising cocoons when a boy, interpreted
for Mrs. Caine, and the progress in the first
effort of the Hawaiian sisters in raising silk
will be reported in due time. We already
have quite a number of mulberry trees to
start with.
	The colony anticipates a visit during the
summer from Queen Liliokalani, on her re-
turn from Washington to the Islands.
There are over one hundred of her people
in this colony. All appear happy and con-
tented, and enjoy having the EXPONENT
interpreted to them in the meetings of the
Relief Society, and hope it may be amply
supported.
EMILY G. CLUFF, Prest.,
