TRIBUTE TO OUR WOMEN.
	A representative of the Associated Press
interviewed the Countess of Aberdeen and
others regarding the practical results likely
to accrue from the international council of
women. Lady Aberdeen, who is an en-
thusiastic admirer of the American and
Canadian delegates, said:
	“Every one of them was a skilled ex-
pert and most of them were trained speakers
whom the congress was delighted to hear,
which cannot be said in regard to many of
the other speakers. The Americans, as a
rule, were better informed, more decided in
opinion and further advanced on the lead-
ing topics than any of the other delegates. 
They fairly outstripped the English wom-
en, who, however, were better informed
than the continental delegates in general
knowledge of the subjects pertaining to
women.
	“Mrs. Sewall won the congress from the
first. She has extraordinary tact in deal-
ing with such a large gathering of repre-
sentative women.
	“Miss Susan B. Anthony’s powerful ad-
vocacy of women’s claims distinctly added
to her already great reputation both at
home and abroad.
	“Regarding the results, the grand con-
summation has been reached of welding
together a cosmopolitan body of thoughtful
women, prepared to educate their fellow
women. Twenty-five years hence the
leaven of today will have leavened the
whole world, and the irresistible force of
public opinion will have raised women to
their proper sphere.”


[Column1]
28
Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher,

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah,
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office. Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m.  to 5 p. m. every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

