ELLEN HALEMANU, Secy.

	A Peace Meeting was held in this colony
on the 15th of May. The Hawaiian
brethren and sisters expressed a desire for
peace upon the earth. The program con-
sisted of speeches, prayer and songs. They
all believe in settling difficulties by arbi-
tration rather than resort to war, and unite
in asking the leaders of nations to adopt the
plan proposed.
HANNA RAAEPA, Sec.
EMERY STAKE.
	The Emery Stake Relief Society Con-
ference convened at Ferron, April 21, 1899,
President Annie U. Larsen in the chair.
	After the usual opening exercises Sister
Larsen addressed the conference, bade all
welcome and felt glad to see the brethren
with us. Desired the sisters would exer-
cise their faith, that we might call down
the blessings of God upon us, that we may
have a good time together. She desired
the report of the presidents.
	Sister Swensen, president of Ferron, re-
ported the society of that place united and
willing to do what was required of them.
They had a society house nearly completed,
anticipated its completion this summer.
	Sister Jorgensen, Emery, reported her
society in a flourishing condition; all was
peace and harmony. They had one hun-
dred and seventy bushels of wheat, which,
according to the number of members, was a
good showing. The Bishop asked the sis-
ters to aid in building a meeting house.
	Sister Caroline Larsen, Castle Dale, re-
ported the society in a prosperous condition.
The sisters were feeling all right, and will-
ing to do what was required. They had
sixty bushels of wheat, a number of quitls
and considerable carpet-rags on hand. Gave
a good many notes from the General Relief
Society Conference at Salt Lake City in
April, also told how Sister Zina blessed all
the Relief Society. She was pleased to see
all the Stake presidency at the conference


and hoped we would be blessed with an
abundance of the Spirit of the Lord, which
she felt assured we would.
	Sister Robertson reported Orangeville
as doing well. Felt proud to report such a
noble band of sisters. They did a good
work in many ways and were making a
great effort to complete their house this
summer.
	The counselor of Molen reported their
society as doing well for so few in number.
They had donated to the Stake Academy,
and were ever willing to do what they
could at all times. There were only nine
branches reported in the statistical report
read by Sister Cox.
	President Larsen was pleased with the
reports of the society, especially with what
they had done for the Stake Academy, the
report showing that the amount of $55 00
had been given by the Relief Society of
Emery Stake. “Let us appreciate the
privileges we enjoy, and never forget our
prayers. We should cultivate punctuality
and a love for each other.”
	Sister Washburn reported Huntington,
felt all was well with the sisters, she knew
of few difficulties existing among them.
Hoped we would all remain faithful.
	Sister Childs reported Price, having been
there lately and being requested by the
president, Sister Pace, to do so should they
fail to send a representative. The sisters
at Price were doing very well, and in every-
thing were abreast with their sister towns.
They with others had donated liberally to
the Academy.
	Brother Lambert, of Salt Lake City, was
pleased to hear the reports[-] it was very
gratifying to him. Felt that we should all
live so that we could cultivate faith, as it
was a gift that was affected by the lives we
lived. Gave as an object lesson a circum-
stance that he was cognizant of, where
two families were living so near to the re-
quirements of the Lord that through the
faith they were able to exercise one of their
little ones was restored to life, that had
been dead for one and a half hours. Had
they not been living so perfectly their faith
would not have been equal for the unusual
emergency.
	The forenoon meeting was brought to a
close by the choir singing “We thank Thee,
O God, for a prophet,” etc.
MRS. STEVENS, Sec. pro tem.


