WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]		
		A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
   [Mrs.] Addison Pratt on the Society Islands,
1850.
			[Continued.]
	The 10th day of July. Roads unaccount-
able: up and down like the affairs of life. Met
traders with flour and groceries for the poor
emigrants. The men went out in search of
gold; found enough to buy some wine and
brandy to rejoice over the event of getting
safely over the last mountain. We shouted
glory hallelujah! Some of the crowd
thought as did the father of the prodigal
son: ‘‘It was meet that we should make
merry and rejoice.” They wanted a
Jubilee. 
	The 13th day. The horn sounded for
preaching; the people assembled, prayed
and sang hymns.
	Now we are fairly in the gold country—
a land of desolation, a barren desert. The
poor diggers look forlorn. Behold two
men I saw from the state of Illinois, from
the immediate vicinity of my brother, whom
I have not seen for many years! They
knew him, and could inform me of his
welfare. I have been truly homesick to-
day: May the Lord speed us on to our
place of destination. Oh, what a dismal
country ! No feed, no green thing grow-
ing—nothing but gold!
	The 16th day. Camped in an oak grove
near Brown’s, a fictitious name for Porter
Rockwell. Found a spring of clear, cold
water.
	The 17th day. Today arrived Brothers
Amasa Lyman and C. C. Rich, whom we
were most happy to meet. They brought
me a letter from my husband, dated April
24th, the same day he set sail at San Fran-
cisco for the Islands. The heat is almost
insupportable. Several old friends who
came to this country before us, today called
to see us. Men are reckless in this country;
there is great want of woman’s influence.
Filth and confusion throughout the whole
country. Sister Caroline Crosby and I
visited Brown’s and Steward’s. They
treated us kindly and made us presents.
They make money by selling liquors and
provisions to the emigrants. To be obliged
to see drunkenness and listen to profane
language to earn a livelihood, and that
without cessation, how can they endure it!
Preaching today by Brothers Rich and
Lyman. To see their faces and hear their
voices proclaiming the truth so far from
home, is comforting to the soul!
	The 23rd day. Camped six miles from
Sacramento. The public buildings are
made of cloth. Brother Crosby sold his
oxen and wagon for $225.00
	July 24th. One year ago today we at-
tended the great celebration in Salt Lake
Valley. Oh, we hope they will remember
us today, and drink us a toast[-] We are
camped on the north fork of the Sacramento
river; water clear and soft. The brethren
who went back to the mountains after ice
and snow for Stewart’s market, have just re-
turned tired, themselves and teams worn
out. The price has fallen from one dollar
to five cents per pound.
	The 25th. Came down to the great city
that has made such a noise in the world. A
great city it is, for the age of it, but so
filthy it is dangerous for people to stop
there.
	July 26th. Pitched our tents on the
bank of the Sacramento river, unloaded
our wagons and the men who had pur-
chased them took them away. I saw my

[Column  2]
faithful old carriage go, which for four years
had been a sleeping room for my children;
besides I had traveled in it two thousand
miles. It was the last piece of property
that remained of all the labors of my youth,
and that of my husband. I received only
thirty dollars for it, as it was badly worn.
The heat was intolerable. Not a tree to
shield us from the scorching sun. We
were preparing to go on board the bark
Alden, Capt. Alden, bound for San Fran-
cisco. Soon after we unloaded our goods
several gentlemen called, to welcome us
with acts of politeness. They brought in
a variety of refreshments, nice drinks and
pastry. It was thankfully received, weary
and worn as we were.
	A man from St. Louis called, who had
married a particular friend of ours in Nau-
voo. He informed us that his wife’s
mother had died of cholera at his residence
in St. Louis; that he had sent his wife with
two children to Nauvoo, hoping they might
escape that malignant disease.
	Joy and sorrow go hand in hand: we rejoice
to meet old friends, sorrow at parting. Our
traveling companions who were destined for
the mines called to bid us good bye. They
looked sad at the sight of the vessel we had
to embark in. The bark was large and
convenient, but oh, so dirty ! We went
on board, chose our berths, expecting to
have a good night’s rest. No sooner had
we laid our heads on our pillows than the
mosquitos commenced their ravages! Like
a mob of armed men they invaded our
quarters. We all abandoned the cabin and
fled on deck; but all in vain, we could not
elude their vigilance. Two-thirds larger
than insects of the common class, their bites
were like the sting of bees. I wrapped myself
in a thick blanket and sat in my chair. In
spite of all my efforts to cover myself they
pierced me till my feet and ankles became
swollen and inflamed. I wore bandages
wet in vinegar on my wrists, and went
without sleep till I was completely ex-
hausted. The wind was contrary, the
bark could not leave the harbor. The
children complained most bitterly! The
captain sent repeatedly to the town to get a
steamship to tow his vessel out, but ob-
tained nothing but promises. At length
Mr. Tompkins went to engage a steamer.
One came, but he was not with it. The
captain said he had come to take twenty
passengers off the bark. Mrs. Tompkins
inquired why her husband was not with
the steamer: The reply was, “He has
been left by mistake.” She gave credence
to the assertion and hurried us to remove
our goods immediately. My brother-in-
law would not comply, believing it a de-
ception. Eagerly seventeen rushed on to
the steamer, so frantic were we to escape fiom
the furious insects.
	We floated on with speed, found the boat
comfortable. Mrs. Tompkins was not at
all troubled about her husband. She was
certain he knew the way to San Francisco.
The first event on the boat was a long dis-
cussion with a gentleman on the doctrines
of the Mormon church. I preached to him
a Gospel sermon, bore my testimony to a
new dispensation, a renewal of all the gifts
and blessings. He seemed greatly sur-
prised. I left for his perusal a pamphlet
by Orson Pratt.
	We went to our staterooms with high
hopes of rest, but found we had only made
an exchange in the nature of our foes: the
latter having their habitation in the berths.
We struggled through the night, the morn-

[Column 3]
ing found us in the harbor. We made our
way to our friends’ homes, they received us
with great cordiality and made us welcome.
Mrs. Tompkins settled with the captain.
Four days after, Mr. Tompkins arrived. He
was highly offended because we had left
the bark in his absence. He assured us he
was there in four hours after we left with a
steamer to tow the boat into the bay, where
she could make her way alone. His wife’s
feelings were injured by the severity of his
remarks, and he was forced to make an
apology.
	The hearts of the brethren and sisters
who had landed there in ’46 from the old
ship Brooklyn, were open to receive us, to
supply our wants and prepare us for our
voyage across the seas. I found a Sister
Corwin, mother of Samuel Brannan’s wife,
an exceedingly kind-hearted woman, full of
faith and good works. She lived with her
daughter in a house like a king’s palace.
With Sister William Morey I felt much at
home. Shared largely of her benevolence. 
Brother John Lewis came with his carriage
and took us to Mission Dolores, three miles
from San Francisco. The old mission
house was built the year of  “Independence.’’
It resembles some old, ancient abbey,
which it is, built by the Catholics and
used for a nunnery. ’Tis of immense size,
long, dark alleys; with awe they strike the
mind. We spent two weeks there, were
kindly entertained. Numbers there were
in that branch of the Church who showed
us great kindness. A better class of citi-
zens never lived in San Francisco, a city
for money and business. A large fleet of
ships were lying in harbor; the sailors had
all deserted and gone to the mines; no
hands left to the management of the vessels.
They looked like a funeral procession.
There had been a terrible fire in the city a
few months before we arrived, but rapidly
have they made repairs.
	Ten days after Mr. Tompkins came in,
the bark arrived with the remainder of the
passengers. She had been baffling about
two weeks in the bay. Those of us who
had left her felt ourselves fortunate; but
when Mr. Tompkins complained that his
expenses had been too great, I felt it sorely!
Greatly did I regret that I had not means
of my own to go on an errand for the Lord.
What I do for the cause of Christ, I desire
to do at my own expense: and I pray for
means, that I may show my liberality and
willingness to do what is essential to be
done. Mrs. Tompkins never but once re-
ferred to what her husband had done for
my family, and then it was in a passion,
and I forgave her. She is good and true,
and her faith in the latter-day work is
strong.
	After a tarry of five weeks in San Fran-
cisco our passage was engaged to Tupuai,
on board the brig Jane A. Hersey, Capt.
Salmon. We set sail the 15th of Septem-
ber, in fulfillment of a dream my eldest
daughter had two years before, being the
precise time shown in the dream. Myself
and four daughters, my sister, her husband
and one son, two other families, six Elders,
in all twenty souls embarked.
	We found the captain a polite, well-bred gentleman; likewise Capt. Hall, who be-
longed on Tahiti, was returning as passen-
ger, a kind and agreeable man. Mr. Poole,
part owner in the vessel, was on board with
his wife, a sprightly young English lady of
seventeen, very intelligent and agreeable.
There were elements of good society, and
but for the intolerable seasickness we might


have had a delightful voyage. The com-
mon sailors were extremely obliging, striv-
ing to do little acts of kindness to attract
our attention. With the poor fellows a
kind word is appreciated. Our cabin was
large, built on purpose for our accommo-
dation. I had never supposed I should be
sick on the water, but on the contrary I was
the first one taken. I could not endure
the confined air in the cabin. In the morn-
ing my bed was made on deck for the day.
Not a mouthful could I eat except when
lying down. It seemed like raising the
dead to get out of my berth and dress my-
self, yet when I found my life depended
upon it, I could accomplish it by a power-
ful exertion. No dread to me was like that
of being buried in the sea. At times when
I felt like I could close my eyes and drop
out of existence, the thought that they
would bury me beneath the billowing
waves that dashed and foamed against the
bulwarks of the grand old brig, would in
an instant arouse me to a desperate exertion
to go on deck. And well did it happen for
me; my two eldest daughters are natural
sailors, only for a day or two did they com-
plain at all, could walk the deck when the
ship was reeling to and fro. Ellen was at-
tentive and faithful during the whole voy-
age of thirty-five days. Day after day I
lay on the deck, my bones aching, on my
hard bed, bewailing my sad fate, that I
must be forever traveling over the world
without my companion. Sometimes I was
able to read, which was a solace and com-
fort. My secret prayer was to be preserved
from a watery grave.
	When the cry of porpoise or skipjack was
heard, I would call for some one to lift me
up and let me cling to the bulwarks, that I
might feast my eyes on the wonders of the
mighty deep. At such times I would near-
ly forget my weakness. I wished continu-
ally for excitement. Seasickness, how hor-
rible! always dying, and yet you live! The
whole company were sick, no one felt like
praying and administering to his fellows. I
longed to hear prayers, and when at length
the Elders resolved to perform that duty,
and lay on hands to rebuke the disease, we
felt relieved and our hearts were comforted.
I had been severely tried because the
Elders did not officiate in religious duties
on board the vessel. They feared an ex-
citement, knowing the officers were infidel
in their views. The apology did not satis-
fy me. I kept silence, even from good
words, but it was pain and grief to me.
The captain knew we were missionaries.
There were some persons among us who
were disposed to carry tales from one to
another, a principle so detestable that any
lover of peace should spurn it as he would
a venomous serpent.
[To be continued.]


