WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


(Column 1)
CHARITY AND LABOR.
	The same sentiment or attribute so
divinely portrayed by the Apostle Paul in
his first Epistle to the Corinthians, 13th
chapter, which he calls Charity, Henry
Drummond, in his master lecture, “The
Greatest Thing in the World,” designates
as “Love.” That definition of Drum-
mond’s is singularly appropriate and ac-
ceptable; all the more so because an older
writer and greater prophet than he defines
the same thing, thus: “But charity is the
pure love of Christ and it endureth for-
ever.”—Book of Mormon, Moroni, 7th chap.
	The Great Father exercised this charity,
or love, toward His children in the begin-
ning of their career upon this earth, in a
very different way to that in which many
fond parents manifest what they under-
stand to be the most tender love for their
offspring, in these later times. This earth
was created for Adam and his generations
after him. And the Garden of Eden was
planned and planted for him and Eve to
make their home in. But their Father did
not say to them, “My son and my daugh-
ter, this beautiful home is for you to take
your ease and pleasure in, unburdened
with cares and labors, such as your mother
and I have borne in making it for you.”
Genesis 2nd chapter and 15th verse tells us
that “The Lord God took the man and put
him into the Garden of Eden, to dress it
and to keep it. ”
	God’s great love for His son Adam made
Him considerate of his welfare to the ex-
tent that He gave him work to do which
should claim his time and attention and
keep him from running after idlers and
mischief-makers who might be allowed to
find their way into his garden and seek to
decoy him from the path of duty. And
not only did Adam’s Father furnish him
with employment for his hands, but He
had also a tremendous amount of brain
work laid out for him as well. He was
expected to find names for all the beasts of
the fields and fowls of the air: business
enough to keep him actively engaged for
quite a length of time, we would think in
these days.
	But according to modern notions, al-
though Eve received the distinguished and
important appointment of help-mate to
Adam, yet upon her was placed no special
responsibility, except in the first great
commandment which charged the man and
his wife to be fruitful and multiply, and

(Column 2)
replenish the earth. Eve’s life in Eden,
previous to the step which led to the
banishment of herself and husband, has
been regarded in a light akin to the follow-
ing:

In the beautiful garden of Eden,
	Ere the fall of the woman and man, 
Eve must have had a good time—
	Imagine it once, if you can.

Birds in the tree-tops singing,
	Or soaring in balmy air,
Could not be freer than she was,
	From burdens of household care.

No dishes to wash after breakfast,
	No planning of what to have next,
For luncheon or dinner or supper,
	No man disappointed and vexed.

The most luscious fruits always ready,
	Adam would have but to say,
And Eve would have only to gather,
	Whatever they wanted that day.

No ironing, washing or mending, 
	The buttons all torn off and lost;
No household accounts to examine,
	With hopes of reducing the cost.

But, alas, how the tempter beguiled her,
	When he found her with nothing to do!
What a warning to all of her children,
	Reaching even to me and to you.

That too much of wealth and of leisure
	Are not the best things to receive,
Is shown by the record that's given
	To us of our great Mother Eve.

	That all honest industry is honorable, is
a truth too old and too obvious to require
argument. And yet to earn a living by
laborious industry seems to be as much
against the nature of people in general, be-
cause it is erroneously considered more re-
spectable to be able to live without work
than by it, as that it requires self-sacrifice
in some respects to devote time and energy
to industrial pursuits. But there are many
sides to this question of charity and labor.
	While there are those who would pre-
fer to live by the sweat of others’ brows
than their own, there are, on the other
hand, hard-working and generous-hearted
people, who would rather be over-taxed
themselves, for the sake of earning and
handling more money, even though they
divide their earnings with their poorer
neighbors, than to share their work with
them. This, is mistaken kindness, false
charity, and works injury to both parties
concerned. Would it not be far better if
the wise financiers, in our communities
would lend their energies and means to the
systematic arrangement of industries in
which all might find lucrative employment,
instead of the few building up themselves,
being over-worked because of their anxiety
to earn and save, even though they give
liberally of their substance to feed the poor?
Certainly it is better to teach children to
work and earn at least a portion of what
they need and want, than to give them all
they require, demanding nothing in return.
And the same rule will apply to men and
women as well as boys and girls.
	In our charitable institutions, therefore,
evidently the wisest thing to do would be
to create industries in which all who are
able to work might be happily employed,
being kindly encouraged to do their best to
earn their living. Instructions to this effect
were given by the great organizer of the
Relief Society among the Latter-day Saints,
the Prophet Joseph Smith, more than fifty
years ago.
	Great care and prudence would neces-
sarily have to be exercised in the distri-
bution of labor among the poor. A feeble,
delicate woman would not be expected to

(Column 3)
wash and scrub, as a strong, well one
might. But the former would perhaps be
able to braid straw, darn or patch light
material, and find relief in some such easy
work, which idleness could never bring.
And the strong one would probably sing
over her heavier tasks, taking satisfaction
in them which she would never discover in
lighter employment.
	How many there are around us who are
needing to have their work thus planned
out and arranged for them! And how
much happier and more prosperous the
world might be made if the wise managers
would generously and patiently give some
of their time and skill to the instruction of
others on these points; and if those who
are less gifted would be humbly teachable,
and strive to learn! God speed the time
when selfishness shall no longer exist,
when each shall love his neighbor as him-
self, when there shall be no poor, for all
shall be rich in the peaceful enjoyment of
true charity and satisfactory labor!
