AUNT ESTHER'S SWEETHEART.
BY AUNT EM.
[Conclusion.]
	Of all those who had been converted
Aunt Esther was really the most zealous
and content. Heretofore she had not been
religiously inclined, but she had had many
misgivings with regard to a step she once
contemplated taking, though she had main-
tained her reputation and escaped almost
miraculously from falling into disgrace. She
knew, as no one else did or could know,
how she had been tempted to leave her hus-
band’s house forever, and go into a foreign
land with the man she loved with all the
fervor of youthful attachment, but whom
her parents had not allowed her to marry.
He had come to her at a time when she had
felt the most desperate, had read her heart
when her whole soul revolted against the
bondage she was undergoing, and urged
her to fly with him. And she had even
tried to persuade herself that the step Sid-
ney Manning entreated her to take was no
more a sin in the sight of heaven, than the
domestic life she was compelled to live with
the husband to whom she was bound by
marriage vows. Some good angel stood by
her then, and at the last moment, as it were,
when all had been cautiously arranged, and
her lover was waiting in anxious expectan-
cy, she finally resolved to preserve her hon-
or and that of her husband, and remain
true to her womanhood and to her mar-
riage vows, and suffer wrong rather than
commit a wrong that would forever debar
her from association of the friends she
loved; and an error, too, which to her now
thoroughly awakened consciousness of its
gross wickedness, she felt sure would end
in despair and hopeless degradation. And
as a last resort, she sent her faithful maid,
alone, in the dead silence of the night, to
tell her old sweetheart that she could not
consent to go with him, and he must never
attempt to see her again. Poor Polly! she
never dared to tell her mistress all the
dreadful things Sidney Manning said there
in the darkness, when she delivered her
message. And so that part of the romance
ended and he went away, and finally se-
cured a position in a mercantile house in
India, and amassed wealth—for it was the
lack of riches that had deprived him of his
darling Esther, and he was determined to
accumulate means enough to make her a
home suited to her circumstances, should
she ever be free again to choose for herself;
and he would wait until that time came,
always believing in her affection and trust-
ing in his knowledge of her character. And
he esteemed her far more for the sacrifice
she made in giving him up, when, in his
mistaken sense of right, he would have
stolen another man’s wife. She had saved
herself and him too, and when far away
from her in a foreign land and meditating
upon her loveliness of character, he could
appreciate the strength and fortitude she
manifested in withstanding the great temp-
tation.
	When Sidney Manning heard of the sud-
den death of Esther’s husband, he had
mastered his feelings to such an extent that
he did not rejoice; and he waited on,
wondering if she would make any sign to
him, any recognition of her first promise


[Column 1]
that she had never redeemed. But she did
not, she was too proud for that, and the
impulsive girl had changed into a well-de-
veloped woman. So after a time he wrote,
and Esther Danforth took months to deliber-
ate before replying; and when she did write,
was careful not to make any sort of com-
promise. Had it not been for the thrilling
episode in their lives, that came near end-
ing in a tragedy, she would have acted
differently, now she was doubly reserved.
Bye and bye he wrote again, then she said:
"Wait," and he had waited long enough,
he thought, for her, and too long by far for
him.
	One morning at breakfast time Uncle
William handed Aunt Esther a letter in
Polly's handwriting, which gave her no
concern; but as she opened it another letter
fell out upon the table. Alice caught it
up, thinking it might be for her, but Esther
had seen the name, and knew instantly
that it was from her old sweetheart.
	"Excuse me, Aunt Esther," said Alice,
"it is for you, after all, but such a peculiar
hand, looks like foreign paper, but there’s
no postmark, there must be visitors at the
Wren’s Nest. What does Polly say?"
	There was no help for it, Aunt Esther
must answer. Her face was flushing, she
knew, and trying to be as calm as possible,
turning to her sister, who was eyeing her
very closely, she stammered out, "Sidney
—Mr. Manning, I mean—he’s returned
from abroad."
	"And pray who is Sidney—Mr. Man-
ning, Auntie?"
	Before she could reply Aunt Jane had
spoken for her, "Your Aunt Esther’s old
sweetheart, Alice."
	Mrs. Danforth protested and blushed a
deeper crimson; but the secret was out
nevertheless, and Alice was delighted.
	"O, that’s what Polly meant when she
said you had a romance in your life."
	"What can Polly know of my sister’s
sweetheart? She was nothing but a child
when this affair with Sidney Manning oc-
curred, that’s why we all called him Esther’s
sweetheart. Father and mother didn’t ap-
prove of children being engaged and broke
the matter off, and my sister was sent away
from home to cure her. But I always had
an idea it was a kind of hopeless case, for
he never married, at least we never heard
of it, and as for Esther, she is blushing to
the very tips of her ears, for all the world
like a young girl of sixteen—and she’s six
and thirty."
	"Isn’t it enough to make any one blush,
to have such things repeated in one’s
presence? I wish Sidney Manning had
stayed in India."
	"In India, Auntie? Well, if that isn’t
fine! A rich uncle from India for the holi-
days after all. Can’t you invite him to
come here, Aunt Jane?"
	"That must be as my sister Esther says,"
she replied. "I would like it very much."
	"He’s not your uncle, Alice," said Aunt
Esther, "and it’s very improper for you to
call him so, and your Aunt Jane’s house is
full of visitors already."
	At this Alice subsided for a few moments;
but there was very little breakfast eaten by
any of the ladies that morning. Aunt Jane
recalled one remembrance after another of
the days when Esther was a child, and it
was all very interesting for the young folks.
Alice declared it was just what she always
had thought from fragments Polly had
dropped now and then, though how she had
found it out no one could tell; and now it

[Column 2]
had come out accidentally, and just what she
had begged Aunt Esther to tell her about
herself.
	The party Aunt Jane had intended to
give in honor of her visitors had been post-
poned from one time to another on some
pretext, and the night before the arrival of
Aunt Esther’s queer letter, the host and
hostess had come to the conclusion it should
come off on Christmas eve; and it was to
have been discussed at the breakfast table,
when all the family were together; but the
unfortunate letter had put it entirely out of
Aunt Jane’s mind, and upon arising from
the table Aunt Esther had gone to her
room, presumably to read her letter from
home.
	Poor Aunt Esther! here was another di-
lemma! Polly wrote that Mr. Manning
had come unceremoniously to the Wren’s
Nest, and finding Mrs. Danforth absent,
had inquired of her whether her mistress
had received a foreign letter recently; and
she had answered truthfully that she had.
Then he wanted to know if any message
had been left for him, and she told him
there was none. Next, where she had
gone, and when she was expected home?
She had gone to M—in Franklin Coun-
ty, to her sister, Mrs. Wetherell, and as to
her return, it was indefinite. Then Polly
said, "He asked me to let him write a let-
ter, and would I write one and enclose it in
mine? And I hope, my dear mistress, you
will not be offended, for he seemed so sad
and disappointed that you were not here."
	Having finished Polly’s letter, which
contained little else. Esther Danforth broke
the seal of the other. There is always a
sort of charm about a pretty seal—and it
adds to the interest of a letter’s contents.
But this letter was a "love letter" indeed.
He accused her of running away from him,
and warned her that he should follow her
to the ends of the earth, if need be; re-
minded her of walks and rambles they had
taken together in the beautiful past, and of
the kisses he had stolen from her sweet lips.
He seemed to have forgotten that she was
a matronly woman now, and he no longer
the young lover, nor the "little sweetheart."
	The longer Esther stayed and pondered
over the letter, the more bewildered she
grew. She could not see him there, it
would be worse than being at home; there
so many would not be looking on. She
had half a mind to pack her trunk and go
back, but that seemed impracticable; and,
wavering between this and that, she knelt
and prayed for wisdom. A sweet peace
came with the prayer, and she joined the
family group in the sitting room.
	Alice exclaimed as soon as her aunt came
in, "Aunt Jane will write to Mr. Manning
to come this very day—but even then he
can’t reach here for the party."
	"Have you any objection, Esther?" her
sister inquired.
	"Just as you please, Jane; but remember
this is your invitation, not mine," said
Esther emphatically.
	The letter was dispatched, and Alice was
eager to see what this old sweetheart of her
auntie’s was like, and asked numerous
questions; but as no one knew much more
than she did, she did not get much of an
idea. Aunt Jane had said, though, that to
the best of her recollection he had a very
fine figure and a handsome face.
	Christmas eve came, and the house was
profusely decorated; for the party was to be
quite an elaborate affair for a country town,
and every one seemed in the gayest of

[Column 3]
spirits, except Aunt Esther, who went
from room to room, seemingly without any
object in view. Later on in the evening,
when all the guests had arrived, and the re-
freshments had been served and abundant-
ly partaken of, a sharp ring from the old-
fashioned knocker vibrated through the
house and startled the company.
	"Who can it be at this late hour?" said
two or three in a breath; but they had not
long to wait. A stranger, muffled to the
chin in furs, and covered with snow, stood
in the hallway and in every adjacent door-
way the guests crowded to see the new
comer. Mr. Wetherell guessed who he
was and took him into his room, a sort of
office, or what would nowadays be styled a
den. Some explanations were made by the
stranger, and he excused himself for being
muffled by saying he had been so long ac-
customed to a hot climate. Mr. Wetherell
treated his guest to refreshments, and after
partaking of coffee, etc., he was introduced
to the company assembled there, as an old
friend of the hostess.
	This was a great relief to Aunt Esther
when she heard of it afterwards, as she was
suffering meantime, not knowing what ex-
cuse had been made for his unexpected ap-
pearance.
	Mr. Manning was very affable and dig-
nified in manner, and a perfect master of
language in conversation. His extensive
travels abroad had given him ease and
grace in society, and he "took the castle by
storm," so to speak. The girls were
charmed with him, and the young men
were gracious and deferential. Little he
cared for all the respect lavished upon him
from these warm-hearted country people—
he had only eyes and ears for one, his lost
Esther. And she was nowhere to be seen.
She had fled to her room at the sound of his
voice; she could not meet him in the pres-
ence of others. Finally the music ceased,
and the dancers stepped from the scene of
the festivity and rejoicing, and the family
gathered around the great blazing fire. The
night was cold, and the wind howled out-
side, and yet within there was peace and
hospitality and good cheer. When the
young people had left the room, Sidney
Manning ventured to inquire of Jane,
whom he had known well twenty years be-
fore. where her sister, Mrs. Danlorth, was.
	"She is very nervous tonight," Jane re-
plied, "and extremely sensitive. She can-
not endure much excitement, and retired to
her room some time since."
	"Indeed," replied the gentleman, "and
shall I not be able to see her until tomor-
row? And I have come so far across the
sea, and up here into these rocky hills for
that one purpose. I must see her for a few
moments, she must not refuse. Will you
intercede for me, Jane? You, who have
lived such peaceful, quiet lives, know little
of the turbulent restlessness of one tossed
upon the fateful sea of uncertainty: at one
moment ready to sink, and then, a fair sail
in sight, taking courage once more."
	Mrs. Wetkerell’s heart was touched with
compassion, and she promised to try and
persuade Esther to meet him that night, or
morning, for it was now past midnight.
Jane was as good as her word. She en-
treated Esther to see him for a few minutes,
even if the hour was so late it would be a
pleasure to him.
	"Jane," said the woman in pitying tones,
"you are mistaken, he will be disappointed,
he thinks to find me the romantic girl he
left when he went away. I am old beyond


[Column 1]
my years, and I shall not please his fastidi-
ous tastes, and it will only be a trial for me
that I shrink from enduring."
	"Oh, Esther, do go and let him see that
you are not afraid to meet him."
	"Yes, Jane, I will go," said Esther, "for
I am not a moral coward." And she went
down as calm and placid as a summer
morning.
	Mr. and Mrs. Wetherell left them to meet
alone, and Aunt Esther walked quietly into
the great, old-fashioned parlor to meet her
fate, her old sweetheart expecting she
knew not what sort of a reception. But he,
hearing her soft footfall, turned quickly and
reached out his strong arms and clasped her
to his bosom ere she had time to elude his
grasp. Neither spoke for some minutes,
for their silence was more eloquent than
speech, however daintily fashioned. At last
Sidney Manning repeated her name, but
she answered not.
	"Esther," said he again, "we meet once
more, and we are both free. I have waited
long for this meeting. Have you nothing
to say to me after all the long years of con-
stancy?"
	Esther felt there was a barrier even
now, but she could not introduce the sub-
ject tonight, it was too late to enter upon
untrodden ground, so she only said, in the
most indifferent tone, "You must be very
weary, and my brother-in-law is waiting to
show you to your room—tomorrow we
shall have time to renew our acquaintance
—good night, Sidney," and she hurried
from the room.
	He stood by the mantle and leaned his
head upon his hand in a maze of bewilder-
ment. He was as much in doubt whether
she loved him or not as any young, inex-
perienced boy could be. And yet she did
love him passionately, but she kept the
secret in her own soul, woman-like, deter-
mined to prove him, though she might
stake all of earthly happiness and find her-
self the loser.
	During the following day and days after,
Mr. Wetherell opened up conversation with
his guest upon Mormonism, of which he con-
fessed he never heard before, nor of Joseph
Smith nor the Book of Mormon; he was
indifferent, he acknowledged, to all religions.
He had busied himself with men, money
and schemes to accumulate wealth while
abroad, and left religion for an after con-
sideration. Such is the way of the world
in all ages, except in rare instances. Es-
ther heard his remarks without comment,
but feared a wide gulf was opening between
them which it would be difficult to bridge
over, and she became more and more reti-
cent in conversing with him. At present
Sidney Manning was bent upon making
love to Esther—the young and fascinating
widow—and she was mistaken when she
told her sister that he would be disappoint-
ed in her appearance; far from it, he
thought her more charming than in her
younger days, if possible.
	Alice’s courtship was progressing favor-
ably, all seemed to be smooth sailing in
their direction. Not so with the others.
Obstacles kept looming up, and Sidney
thought there was no chance at all for him.
Esther’s time was occupied with many calls
and visits. A tender word now and then
when he could meet her in the hallway
alone, was about the extent of his advan-
tages. He knew that some business had to
be attended to soon in Boston, and thought
he would go and transact it while Esther

[Column 2]
was so much engaged, and visit her at her
own home when she returned, when he
hoped he would be the chief attraction.
The Wetherells persuaded him to remain
until after New Years, and hoping he
might secure an interview on that auspici-
ous day, he consented to stay until that
time. He was disappointed, however; the
house was full of callers and some friends
had been invited to dine. The day sped
swiftly by, and he had decided to leave
early the next morning. He invited Rich-
ard Ashburn to accompany him, thinking
it would hurry Alice and her aunt home a
few days sooner.
	Mrs. Danforth had intended remaining
much longer, but as her niece had made up
her mind to get married in the coming
spring, she decided to go home and set
about preparations, though she did not take
Sidney’s case into consideration as an in-
centive to her going. The visit had not
only been a pleasant but a profitable one,
and Aunt Esther realized how great a bless-
ing had come to her through the Gospel
she had heard and embraced. She was al-
ready planning to leave her native state and
go to join the people of her choice in the
chosen home of the Saints.
	About a week after Manning’s and Rich-
ard’s departure, Aunt Esther and Alice
took the stage for home; with consider-
able reluctance though, for they had met
many pleasant people, and partings give us
all more pain than pleasure. But our lives
are mostly made up of these trifles—coming
and going, meeting and parting; and we
must take the sweet along with the bitter
or we would never know the contrast, and
an overdose of sweets is very injurious and
sometimes fatal, though we all long for it
more or less, and some people really seem
to get more than their share in this life.
	Poor Aunt Esther plainly saw that there
was to be another struggle with her feel-
ings, another temptation was near; and
whether she could overcome it or not she
was scarcely satisfied in her own mind. She
had no adviser, no one upon whom she
could lean, and her human heart cried out
sharply for the love she had never been
permitted to enjoy in its full completeness.
Now it was within her reach, she could ac-
cept it if she would; but would it not be at
the sacrifice of something higher and holier
and more lasting than mere earthly happi-
ness at its best? Esther Danforth prayed
for guidance from above, it was her only
hope and stay.
	Aunt Esther had no trouble in convinc-
ing Polly and Ben, her two trusted helps,
of the new religion as she called it, and
when shortly after some Elders who had
visited Boston came out to Mrs. Danforth’s,
who lived a little way out in the suburbs,
both of them were ready for baptism.
Others of her neighbors, too, believed,
among them the Elmores, which was a
source of joy to Aunt Esther and Alice,
especially because of Harry.
	Sidney Manning and Richard Ashburn
were not long away from the Wren’s Nest
after its mistress returned and many pleas-
ant evenings were spent there, happily for
all except Aunt Esther, who felt too keenly
the risk she was running; for she had
known by intuition all along that her old
sweetheart, as he had been christened by
the young folks, was not favorable to her
views upon religion, and to her nature it
seemed a positive necessity. He wanted
her exclusively, and that only, he declared,

[Column 3]
would satisfy him. But she was different
and her needs were greater; she, too, want-
ed his love and something higher and
purer. Day after day the struggle went on,
until Alice’s marriage. Then the calmness
was ruffled a little, when Mr. Manning in-
sisted upon their marriage upon the same
day with Alice and Richard. Esther made
such an emphatic resistance that it came
near destroying their friendly relations for
the future.
	It would be quite impossible here to de-
scribe in detail the particulars of Alice’s
wedding, but suffice to say, she had every-
thing she desired and was a perfect picture
of loveliness herself. The Elmore girls
were her bridesmaids, and young Mr.
Wetherell, her cousin, was Richard’s best
man. Her rich uncle from India, as she
playfully called Mr. Manning, gave her an
elegant India shawl and several odd and
pretty ornaments.
	After the wedding Mr. Manning still
continued his visits to the Wren’s Nest, and
as time went on, he grew impatient of
the delay for the fulfilment of the dream of
his life, and used all the powers of per-
suasion he possessed to get Esther to name
the happy day. At last Esther summoned
all her courage and assured him it could
never be. It almost broke her heart, the
inward struggle was so great; but she saw
with a woman’s keen intuition that her
happiness would not be secured by giving
way to this earthly love that clashed with
her religion, and she knew herself to be
equal to the occasion. For her "old sweet-
heart," as every one had come to call him
now, she felt deeply; he had staked all and
was about to lose. He had no faith to lean
upon, and while she talked to him, this
great, strong man sobbed like a child.
	When he recovered himself sufficiently to
speak, he said: "Esther, my darling, if you
should change your mind, if you should be
unhappy and want me, or if misfortune
should come to you, don’t hesitate to come
to me or send for me, I will come if I am
living. I would marry you notwithstand-
ing the doubts you entertain of our happi-
ness, but I cannot take you unless you are
wholly satisfied. And now I must go
away, I dare not linger near you, I should
be desperate," and he caught her in his
arms, showered her with burning kisses,
and the hot tears fell like rain upon her
face. A moment more and he was gone—
fled from her forever. She did not dare
look after him lest she should call him
back, and have to go over the same scene
again. It was over, and her "sweetheart"
had left her. She sank upon the sofa and
gave way to a passionate burst of grief.
	And now Esther’s sweetheart has gone,
we must draw our story to a close. There
is little more to tell. Poor Aunt Esther
went about her daily duties as before, only
she grew more and more tender and lovable.
For some years letters came regularly from
India, and occasionally some valuable gift.
Twice she wrote to him upon Gospel sub-
jects, she did not dare trust her pen to speak
for her of other things. Bye and bye the
letters ceased coming, and then she knew
Sidney Manning was dead. She remained
constant in her devotion to her old sweet-
heart, and never married after, though she
had many opportunities. She devoted her
time, her means and her energies all to
doing good to others in the household of
faith, and many there were who received
blessings at her hands.


