A WINDY DAY. 
	The fourth of May was the day appointed 
for a reunion at Idaho Falls, a reunion of 
the Relief Society workers in the Stake. 
	In spite of the dreadful storm that pre-
vailed the meeting house was comfortably 
filled. For my part, I would have given up 
the idea of driving the seven miles there, 
but for the fact that I had promised to call 
for two other sisters on the way; so for that 
reason, and as I had my picnic all prepared,
I thought I would venture, hoping that the 
storm would diminish before long. How-
ever, when I came within two miles of the 
Falls, the clouds of dust were so thick and 
dense that twice I could not see the horses'
heads, and could not tell whether they 
were keeping the road or not.
	I do not know when I was so surprised 
at anything as I was to see a few young 
mothers with babes in their arms at that 
meeting. True it is that when the Mor-
mon people make an appointment, they do


not allow anything to prevent them from 
fulfilling it. 
	Sister Bennett said she was sorry that 
two of the sisters whose names were on the 
program were not there, on account of a 
small fire that had occurred in that town in 
the morning. She also spoke of the dance 
that was to convene at eight o’clock in the 
evening, said she thought eight o’clock
was a good time to commence a dance, as 
she, with others, regretted that so many 
dances up here in Idaho did not commence 
until ten o’clock and after; for her part, all 
the enthusiasm for a dance was about gone 
at that hour. 
	When my daughter was up here last 
summer on a visit, she remarked how late 
the young people’s dances took up, and 
said they commenced earlier in Taylorsville.
I said I wished the young people would 
take that step, it would be a step in the 
right direction, for it was a great tax on 
their bodies, especially when they had to 
go to school or to work the next day.
Sometimes it is three or four o’clock be-
fore the dances break up, and perhaps some 
of them have an hour’s drive before they 
get home. If they were obliged to do it 
they would think they were misused. But 
most of them wait for the rest; they must 
talk this up among themselves, and then 
the wisest will take the lead and this late 
hour system will, I hope, be an event of 
the past. 
