BY AUNT EM.

	“Auntie.” said a beautiful young girl,
in an absent-minded sort of way, turning 
half around on the piano stool, and with-
out raising her eyes from the floor, “I’m
tired, of this sort of thing, I want a change;
can’t we go somewhere or give a party;
can’t you suggest some amusement to pass 
away the time? Whv, I’ve not even had 
a letter for days, and that stupid brother of 
mine is having a jolly time of it at Har-
vard, while I’m here at home, day after day 
going through the same dull routine. Oh,
I’m weary, I’d even like to get married, if 
I could have an offer that suited me!”
	“Is that all, Alice? Have you no other 
complaints to make?” said her self-possessed 
aunt in reply. The girl looked a little 
crest-fallen, and without a word turned 
around and went on with her practicing. 
Her aunt, who was a wise and thoughtful 
woman, went on with her sewing as if 
nothing had been said; a long silence fol-
lowed, though the truth was Aunt Esther
didn’t know exactly what answer to make;
it was altogether new for her niece to burst 
forth so excitedly and it took the quaint 
little lady by surprise.

[Column 2]
	Alice sat playing a while longer, and
then came forward toward the fire, which 
was burning brightly, and seating herself 
comfortably in a lower rocker in the corner, 
began to stir the coals with the poker; a 
custom many people have when perplexed; 
the equanimity of her aunt was too much
for her; she wanted her to speak, say she 
had been rude, then she would have apolo-
gized; but to see her sit there so complacent-
ly stitching away, taking no notice of her 
vexation, was unaccountable to one so im-
pulsive. Finally she burst out again. 
	“Auntie, we are always going on in this 
humdrum way, for all the world like two 
old maids. You are not old if you are a 
widow, and I—well I am just twenty-two,
and have never yet had a real beau; I want 
some attention, some companionship.”
	“My dear,” said her aunt, “how long is 
it since we came home from the sea shore,
where you danced, and waltzed, and sang 
and took in all the gayeties of the season, 
until you were tired and wanted to come 
home to the Wren’s Nest, isn’t that so?”
	“Yes, Auntie, I did want to come home, 
thanks to your judicious training, because 
there was so much deception and hypo-
crisy there, and such ‘shilly shally’ girls,
and unprincipled young men, and old ones 
too for that matter, and mercenary, manag-
ing mammas, and all that; it was simply 
disgusting to sensible people.”
	“And that was society, Alice, the best
society, we are informed; and certainly if
wealth and extravagance are the standards
by which the ‘best society’ is estimated, it
must have been.”
	“Yes, Auntie, they were rich, I suppose, 
and they were proud and arrogant, but 
they were also ill-bred, some of them at 
least. Oh, I learned some lessons in the 
ways of the world that I shall never forget; 
and I did not hesitate to tell one young 
lady, who carried on a flirtation under my
very eyes, what my brother would have 
thought of her conduct, and she begged me 
to keep the matter secret. But a truce to 
this, we’ve talked of these things before,
I am positively pining for some one to talk 
to; I know you’re good company, and al-
ways amiable, but there’s no variety in our 
way of living. We’ve got lots of relatives,
let’s go and visit some of them, while
Harry’s at college; when he comes home 
everything will be different, he can take us 
out, and we shall have more society; it
won’t be near so lonely here then, he’s al-
ways so lively.”
	“Alice, what about the country cousins, 
do you remember where we used to visit 
when you and they were children?”
	“Yes, I recollect some of those quaint old 
places up among the New England hills,
they’re very nice in summer time, but 
what about winter, how would it be then?”
	“There’s skating and sleigh-riding, and
winter pastimes, of course; but you must 
choose, it is for your pleasure we shall go.”
	“Aunt Esther, are there any young peo-
ple at these places you think of—would it
be interesting in that way?”
	“In what way, Alice?”
	“Why, would there be any love

[Column 3]
making, or any chance of getting a good
husband?”
	“Alice, you astonish me; but just 
now you were deprecating the ways of 
those girls at the sea-shore, and now you 
are talking in much the same strain.”
	“But I am in earnest, I am going to mar-
ry some great, big-hearted, honest young 
fellow, that has never been in society; 
such as I had a glimpse of last season; and 
that reminds me, Auntie, that you have 
had a kind of romance in your life, I’ve
heard Polly say so; and you never say a 
word about it, nor your married life either, 
though for that matter I never asked you,
never thought of it in fact until now; will 
you tell me the story? It must be an inter-
esting chapter out of your history.”
	Before Aunt Esther had time to reply to 
this rapid questioning, a knock was heard 
at the parlor door and in came Polly with a 
handful of letters, and in the excitement
Alice forgot what she had said to dear
little Auntie, as she called her, and began
examining the postmarks, a habit with wom-
en it is said. “Here’s such a queer 
stamp; I do wonder where this letter’s
from? Some rich old uncle I hope, asking us 
to come for the holidays,” exclaimed Alice.
Then she took up the one she knew to be 
from her brother, and hurriedly broke the 
seal. While she sat reading it and tapping 
her dainty little feet on the carpet every 
now and then, a way she had when over-
joyed, Aunt Esther was busy perusing a 
letter that looked even more foreign than 
the one Alice had laid down. 
	In the midst of the reading a carriage 
drove up and visitors were announced, Mr. 
and Mrs. Elmore with their two daughters, 
and the letters were put aside; and the two 
ladies busied themselves entertaining their 
guests during the remainder of the after-
noon. The Elmores were neighbors of 
theirs, and very nice people indeed. The 
girls were near Alice’s age, and were both 
bright and clever. The afternoon sped 
swiftly away, and Alice had actually for-
gotten the letters, so absorbed was she with 
the conversation of their visitors. 
	Aunt Esther urged their guests to stay 
and dine with them, waiving ceremony, 
and they finally consented, so that it was 
nine o’clock or thereabouts before they 
were alone. The evening had been a 
pleasant one, and Alice was in the best of 
spirits, having thoroughly enjoyed the 
society of these neighbors, who had so much 
to say that was worth listening to. One of 
the young ladies was a fine singer and was 
much admired by Harry, who was passion-
ately fond of music, as indeed were both
Aunt Esther and Alice. Miss Elmore had
been singing, during the evening, one of 
Aunt Esther’s old favorites that had carried 
her back in memory to her girlhood days, 
and these words of the song kept ringing in 
her ears:
“Oh, no, we never mention him, his name is never
	heard,
My lips are now forbid to speak that once familiar
	word.”
	Aunt Esther, so calm and self-contented to 
all appearance, would have given almost any-


[Column 1]
thing to have been alone for a few minutes,
that she might weep to relieve her pent-up
feelings; but even when the guests had de-
parted Alice was there, and she must not
give way. The reading of the letters was
resumed, and for a while silence reigned.
What a pretty picture the two ladies made
in that elegant room! Alice was tall and
slender in figure, a perfect blond in com-
plexion, and this evening she wore a dress
of soft, pale blue merino, trimmed with
dainty lace, and as she sat reading, one
might have gazed in admiration, “and
turned and come again to take his fill” of
her rare beauty; every now and then
she spoke to Auntie and her countenance
would lighten to a glow, as she repeated
some of Harry’s witty and shrewd com-
ments upon his college life. Aunt Esther
was one of those peculiar types of women,
so difficult to describe that we term them
“a perfect study;” small in figure, dark
almost olive complexion, purplish or blue
black hair, large gray eyes; many people
considered her plain, but she was attractive,
possessed of that indescribable charm which
for want of a better term we call magnetic.
This evening she wore a gray dress of
some soft material trimmed with scarlet
velvet, and bending over her letters she
looked as much a picture as the young girl
who sat opposite; and Alice, chancing to
notice it, astonished her by saying, "Aunt
Esther, you look so charming tonight,
your very soul seems to be looking forth
out of your eyes. I wish you had a sweet-
heart, it’s such a lonely life to live; how long
since Uncle Herbert died?”
	"Ten years and over,” replied the little
woman, without once lifting her eyes.
Somehow her voice sounded strangely to
Alice, and as she looked she saw tears fall
upon the letter her aunt had been reading,
but which seemed to have dropped from
her hand. Alice knew her aunt was un-
demonstrative, and would not inquire what
made her sad, but thought it was her ill-
timed allusion to her uncle’s death; little
she knew the chord she had touched, that
made such discord in the heart of this staid
and demure little woman.
	The letters were finished and both ladies
drew nearer to the fire and resumed con-
versation, as all do who love each other,
just before separating for the night.
	"Alice, my dear, was your unknown
letter from some rich uncle—an invitation
for the holidays?”
	"No, Aunt, it was from old Mr. Brown
whom we met at the seaside last summer,
and funniest of all (for you remember how
I snubbed him) contained an offer of mar-
riage, the first one I ever had; (audacious
fellow!) tells me he loves me, and that he’s
worth half a million, all in one paragraph.
I wouldn’t marry him if he were worth
three millions; he’s a scoundrel, been in
society thirty years or more and divorced
a wife. Marry old Brown! I’d rather be
an old maid and stay with you all my days,
Auntie; you’ll never marry again, I don’t
suppose, though you’re much more fasci-
nating than most young girls, and know a
great deal more. Is that the reason they
call widows dangerous, I wonder? I’ve
often heard the expression, and couldn’t
imagine why it was used, for you are the
only young widow I have ever really been
acquainted with, and I’m sure you are the
most inoffensive and reserved, and the
very best little Auntie in all the world.”
As she finished her remark she rose and

[Column 2]
threw her arms around Aunt Esther’s neck
and deluged her with kisses.
	When Polly came in to inquire what
orders her mistress had to give before re-
tiring, Mrs. Danforth replied, “Nothing
tonight, but we are going away in a day or
two, so all our plans will be changed, and
we can dispense with some of the help for
the present; and Polly, would you like to
go anywhere on a visit?”
	“No, Mrs. Dantforth, I will stay and
take care of the house while you’re absent,
and Ben, of course you’ll retain him for
outside work; we two can do very well, and
it will save some expense.”
	“All right Polly, it’s very kind of you to
be so careful on my account; then I think
we shall pack up tomorrow, and go away
the next morning; good night, Polly.”
	“Alice,” said her aunt when they were
alone again, “I think I shall go to my sis-
ter’s in M—. Do you remember the
famous, rambling old country house with
the great, wide pastures? It was called
‘The Meadows.’ ”
	“You mean Aunt Jane’s. I remember it
a little, we used to play under the great
elm trees. Wasn’t there a lot of children?”
	“Seven, I believe, and they are none of
them married; you will not be lonely with
all these young people; at any rate we’ll
try it; I have not been there for many
years, never since my widowhood.” And
Aunt Esther paused for a moment, the
word seemed to stick in her throat. “It’s a
long way off, and we need not wait to send
them word, I am sure of a welcome, for
your Uncle William is one of the most hos-
pitable men I have ever known.”
	“Then, Auntie, that’s settled, and I
want you to tell me that romantic story of
your own life. Polly knows something
about it, so of course there is a story.”
	“What nonsense has Polly been filling
your foolish little head with, some servant’s
gossip I suppose?”
	“Oh no, Aunt Esther, this is quite differ-
ent, and if you don’t promise to tell me I
shall ask Polly to tell me before we go to
Aunt Jane’s, because one day she said to
me long ago: ‘Alice, you’re a lovely girl,
but not so attractive as your Aunt Esther
was; she has a history;’ and I wonder
Auntie that I never have teased you to tell
me the story.”
	“Do you see,” said her aunt, pointing to
the clock on the mantle, “it is after mid-
night, and we shall have a great deal to do
tomorrow; you really must go to bed now,
and forget all this foolishness about your
Auntie. It is quite enough for you to
know me as I am now and to judge me
upon my real merits, and not listen to
Polly’s insinuations; she’s over fond of me,
and her imagination carries her away
sometimes.”
	Alice was sleepy, and therefore bade her
aunt good night willingly; and Esther
Danforth sat there alone brooding over the
past that had been so vividly recalled to
her mind that day. For years there had
not been such a sealed fountain opened in
her soul as on that particular day. It
seemed as though that letter had brought
the past with it, not only to Esther herself,
but Polly and Alice seemed full of the
same reminiscences. She would not ac-
knowledge to herself that she had been
persuaded to marry for money, though the
world said so, the world in which she re-
volved; and tonight as she sat thinking, she
drew the letter from her pocket, the letter
that had excited Polly’s curiosity, and

[Column 3]
which seemed to have changed her plans
suddenly.
	“Shall I burn it?” she said to herself.
“I scarcely dare keep it. I am sure Polly
recognized the writing,” and as she solilo-
quized thus, she opened the letter, and was
again perusing its contents.  Looking over
her shoulder we might easily read it too,
for she held it wide open, and gazed as if
entranced. It ran thus:
My Precious Darling:
	I shall sail for America in a few days; I have
made definite arrangements; shall go by way of
London to transact some business there, and then
for Boston. In a few hours after arriving I shall
come to you, and learn my fate. I can no longer
endure this dreadful suspense; it is years since I
wrote you that first impassioned letter, after I
learned that you were free—free from that terrible
bondage of the heart. You answered me as
though you were an icicle, or that your heart
was frozen; but I know you better; you are mine;
and your own heart will bear you witness when
you read these burning words. You cannot forget
if you would the glorious past, the recollection of
which has hung over me during all these years of
banishment, like a rainbow of promise. I have
still the pledge of your devotion, given me on that
May morning when we plighted our troth under
the apple boughs, and I shall never part with it.
The last time I wrote—you answered me in doubt—
it gave mp some encouragement because you said,
“Wait, when the children I have charge of are not
dependent upon me for a home, I may consider
your proposal.” Must duty to the children of
your dead brother forever debar you from fulfill-
ing the pledge of your love to the living—to one
who has waited for you all these years—that he
might take you to his heart and shelter you there
forever? Esther, I am coming, and from your
own sweet lips I must hear the words that shall
decide my fate, my future life.
	Disguise your true self as you may to others,
you cannot deceive me; by my own strength of
affection I measure yours. I will not ask you to
answer me here, it would be too long to wait,
should you say yes; and so—farewell until we
shall meet, sweetest, dearest.
Your old sweetheart,
SIDNEY MANNING.
	Poor Aunt Esther, she read the letter
again and again, and her tears poured hot
and fast—she sobbed as if her heart would
break. “What shall I say to him when he
comes? How can I meet him again after
all these years? I dare not confess my
love, that has outlived everything. I will
not see him, I will go away, I shall not be
able to withstand his pleading!” Not-
withstanding her mental resolve, she folded
up the letter that had caused all this tumult
of feeling and put it in her bosom, and as she
passed out of the room and ascended the
staircase she moaned, and every now and
then she leaned her head upon the balu-
strade and would have fallen but for its
support. Little sleep for her that night;
while Alice, who was wholly heart-free,
slept the sweet sleep of youth and inno-
cence. How true the poet’s words:
“Tired nature’s sweet restorer, balmy sleep; he,
	like the world,
His ready visit pays, when fortune smiles; the
	wretched he forsakes;
Swift on his downy pinions, flies from grief,
And lights on lids unsullied with a tear.”
	The household were early astir the next
morning, for Polly, the faithful friend, had
been almost as wakeful as her mistress, and
the day was a busy one with preparations
for the journey and the necessary changes;
the trunks were packed and strapped and
traveling bags made ready, and Esther Dan-
forth, like one in a dream, went from room
to room to see that all was safe. “This
was his home,” she muttered under her
breath, “my husband’s;” and a cold shiver
ran through her veins; “and I was almost
persuaded to leave it once, but my good


[Column One]
angel stood by and saved me—and Polly,
dear, good girl, she helped me to bear it
all. I came here a bride from the church
door, with showers of congratulations;
what a wretched creature I was; with my
breaking heart and my broken vows; and
Sidney, I did not even dare to think what
would become of him. I was young then,
so very young to be an old man’s bride;
and he knew I did not love him, but he
was ever kind, too kind, and he left all
his wealth to me—only I must not marry
Sidney Manning—there it is in his will,
and it was read that day, when all the
family were there. What a reproach to me
and how they all stared, until I fainted.
I must not marry Sidney Manning ! No,
though my heart should break; not be-
cause of the money—what do I care for the
money; yet it has been a blessing to my
brother’s children, left orphaned and desti-
tute,” and Esther Danforth sank upon her
knees, there in the pale moonlight, be-
seeching heaven to guide her footsteps; and
her prayer was answered.
	The journey occupied two days and
nights; for those were not the times of
steam and rapid transit. At the close of
the second day they reached their destina-
tion. It was a bright, clear, moonlight
night, and the great wide-spreading elms
stretched out their branches, as if to wel-
come and shelter them	The greetings
were affectionate, and Alice was quite de
lighted at the reception she received; it was
so genuine and cordial. The travelers
were tired and glad to go rather early to
bed, especially as they were aware that, as
they were in the country, they would be
expected to rise early.
	Time passed quickly with Alice; there
was so much that was new and pleasant,
and the three young men, her cousins, vied
with each other in planning fresh sur-
prises for her amusement. Aunt Esther
was visiting in a quiet way with her sister,
from whom she had been so long separated,
there were so many things to tell each other
and it was nearing Christmas, and a grand
party was to be given in honor of the visit
of Mrs. Danforth and her niece. Aunt
Jane, as Mrs. Wetherell was called, was
half sister only to Aunt Esther and Alice’s
father, and was some years older she was a
very estimable woman and religious in her
nature; had studied the Bible and sought to
comprehend its meaning. Of late, a new
light had shone across her pathway, and
she had been so impressed with the divine
source from which it came, that she was
making a careful and prayerful examina-
tion of the teachings she had received from
the messengers who came to her with glad
tidings. Her husband was investigating
the doctrine too, and ere long they unfolded
the views they entertained to Aunt Esther.
Contrary to their expectations, she seemed
to grasp these new truths more quickly
than they had done, and it was a confirma-
tion to them that the doctrine was from
heaven. Aunt Esther had gone into the
country place with a broken heart, asking
help from One above, and so completely
humble was she, that she was ready to re-
ceive heavenly truths; in fact she scarcely
needed preaching to, her mind was so clear
on the subjects presented to her by her sis-
ter and her husband.
	The young men were somewhat favorably
impressed with the new doctrines, and had
talked to Alice about the everlasting Gos-
pel, but none of them as yet had been bap-
tized, they were waiting for some Elders,

[Column Two]
who were shortly to pay them a visit and
preach to the people in that vicinity.
	The “Mormon” Elders soon came to
M——, and Mr. Wetherell, who was a
man of considerable influence, tried to get a
hall or meeting house for them to preach in;
but he met with many obstacles in his
efforts that he had not previously antici-
pated; jealousy and tradition were rife in
the hearts of those who were opposed, and
the good man at last decided that the meet-
ing should be at his own place, “The
Meadows.” The house was large and
roomy, and he had expected to entertain as
his guests those who would come to preach
and baptize. All the people in the neigh-
borhood were cordially invited, and many
came to the meetings, and some few con-
verts were baptized and confirmed after two
days’ meetings had been held. Among
those who were baptized were Mr. and Mrs.
Wetherell, Mrs. Danforth and Alice May-
nard and the three sons and four daughters
of the host and hostess of “The Meadows.”
There were eight others baptized and many
more believing. Among the latter was a
young man whom Miss Alice greatly ad-
mired; he had already shown her some
marked attention, and her resolve to marry
some honest, big-hearted fellow was in a
fair way of fulfillment. He was a fine
figure, large and well proportioned, and his
education had not been neglected, even
though he was a farmer’s son, and lived
among the New England hills. He rather
astonished Miss Alice one day by telling
her he had never been in Boston; but she
recovered herself quickly and replied, “she
was glad of it.” Not but that she was
proud of Boston too, but somehow she
liked him better as he was; better than she
ever thought she could like any of the
young men she had met at the capital.
	Meantime both Aunt Esther and Alice
wrote to Harry of the religion they had em-
braced; they were full of zeal and desirous
that he should become a convert. But he
was at that time under quite a different in-
fluence, and his answers to their letters
were very unsatisfactory; but they did not
lose courage. Alice was using all her elo-
quence at home to persuade Richaid Ash-
burn to join the Church of Latter-day
Saints, and her efforts were not in vain; be-
fore many days she had the satisfaction of
knowing that he had espoused the same
religious faith.
		[To be continued.]


