LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	The Ladies' Semi-Monthly Meeting of
June 10, 1899, convened in the 14th ward
hall at 2 o'clock, President M. I. Horne
presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing, "We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet," Prayer by
Sister Margaret P. Young. Singing,
"Welcome best of all good meetings."
Minutes of last meeting read and approved.
	President Horne said she was pleased to
see so many present; that to come together
to testify of the goodness of God, was food
to our spirits. We should set an example
worthy of patronage before our children.
Spoke of the trials that were before us all,
for this is a day of proving. Spoke of the
trials of the early days in Utah, and of the
thankfulness of our hearts that we could
get away from wicked and designing men.
Exhorted us all to train our children by
attending to our duties as we wish them to
do. Spoke of the word of the Lord to 
President Snow, that the people should pay
a full tithing, and of the blessings we
would receive if we would keep the com- 
mandments of God. These commandments
must be kept if we expect to get the bless-
ings. Referred to the great amount of tea
and coffee used in our State, and said how
wrong it must look to our Heavenly Father
that we cannot let these injurious articles
alone. Said she had heard President Young
say that "those who cannot keep the Word
of Wisdom, cannot go to help build up
Jackson County."
	Sister Barnes said she had been a long
while in the Church, but she knew there
was great room for improvement; that the
Relief Society would grow and its good
work increase.
	A sister in the congregation said she be-
lieved in the law of tithing, and that we
would all be blessed in observing this law.
Another sister spoke in tongues.  Sister
Zina D. H. Young gave the interpretation.
	The congregation then sang "Come let
us anew."
	Sister Julia C. Howe said those who are
raised up to lead us are in the right place.
She had always looked upon the law of
tithing as a test of fellowship; we should
teach our children to pay tithing. Spoke
of Daniel's faith, and the wisdom he gained
by refusing the food from the king's table
and observing the laws of nature. Spoke
of the trial it had been to her to stand up
and bear her testimony, but how she had
been greatly blessed in overcoming this
spirit.
	Sister  Liddle spoke of the blessings she
had received from the Lord and the bless-
ings for observing the law of tithing.
	Sister Brown bore a testimony to the law
of tithing and keeping the Sabbath day.
	Sister Barnes, of the 11th ward, knew
that we were richer when we paid our
tithing, we should always pay the best we
have. She had followed out the plan, and
she knew the Lord had blessed her for it.
	Sister Emily Stevenson spoke of the
blessing of Relief Society work, what a
benefit it is to the poor and sick and
afflicted, and the faithful workers that
would no doubt receive a reward.
	A sister in the congregation bore testi-
mony to the law of tithing. Spoke of how
the adversary will take advantage of us
when we neglect little duties.
	Sister Sanders said she had received
many testimonies in this house. Spoke of

[Column 2]
the blessings derived in observing the law
of tithing.
	Sister Smith said she could bear a testi-
mony that the spirit of God was here; also
spoke of the blessing derived from paying
tithing.
	Sister Isaacs knew that her Father heard
and answered prayers. Would rather go
without a great deal and pay an honest
tithing.
	Sister Wright said she always paid her
tithing, and thanked her Father for His
blessings.
	Sister Haite spoke of the glorious work
we are engaged in. Always felt blessed in
paying tithing and donations. Said she
was always pleased to present the Gospel
to those who would accept it.
Sister Bateman said she knew this was
the church of God, and thanked Him for
the privileges she had, for the Gospel and
the privilege of working in the Temple,
etc.; also testified to the truthfulness of the
law of tithing.
	Sister Cooper said she had always paid
an honest tithing and testified to the truth
of the work.
Sister Julia S. Woolley bore testimony
of the law of tithing and standing firm for
the truth.
	Sister Parry spoke of tithing and the
blessings obtained by keeping the com-
mandments of God.
	A sister in the congregation spoke of the
spirit she had been privileged to enjoy,
and said she knew it was proper to pay
an honest tithing. Spoke of the testimony
of a young man, who said that he owed
his success in life to paying an honest tith-
ing.
	Sister Horne said the Lord knows our
weakness, He will be our judge. Spoke of
the sin in breaking the Sabbath day, and
the temptations that were held out to spend
this day in amusements.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by Sister
Zina D. H. Young.

The Semi-Monthly Meeting convened as
usual June 24, 1899 in the 14th ward hall
at 2 o'clock. Sister Bathsheba W. Smith
called the meeting to order. Singing,
"For the strength of the hills we bless
Thee." Prayer by Sister Julia Howe.
Singing, "O, say what is truth." Minutes
of previous meeting read and approved.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith said she was
pleased to be present, and felt that this
meeting was a school for the sisters; that
the Lord was always present; that we
must be faithful and true to enable us to
cope with evil influences. Thought that
outside of the sisters engaged in this work
so much love did not exist.
	Sister Julia C. Howe said she thought it
very necessary to have our memories re-
freshed often in regard to doing our duty;
said she felt to honor her parents for teach-
ing her to honor God. She was taught the
scriptures, and when she heard the Gospel
she was prepared to accept it. She thought
it was necessary to have humility in order
to understand the Gospel. Referred to the
humility the Prophet Joseph Smith ex-
pressed in his prayer to the Lord the first
time he went into the woods to pray.
	Sister Brown thanked the Lord that He
had given her a knowledge of the Gospel
and permitted her to work in the Temple.
Said she believed firmly in the law of tith-
ing, and spoke of the good spirit that she

[Column 3]
had always enjoyed at these meetings.
	Counselor Stevenson said she had always
been an attendant at these meetings. She
thought it was necessary for the sisters to
come together often and better prepare
themselves to perform their mission in life.
	Sister Margaret Goddard said she was
thankful that her parents were God-fearing
people.
	Sister Barton said she had always be-
lieved in and practiced the law of tithing.
She knew the Lord had sent many bright
spirits in this age to fill the responsible
positions.
	Sisters Munn, Badger and Waterfall bore
faithful testimonies to the truth of the
work we are engaged in.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
					J. S. Woolley, Sec.


