[Vol49 | June 1962 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Poem | Title: Morning Song| Author: Leora Larsen]
years  together." 
<-ifip    *Tflr*    *Tfir* 
Morning  Song 
Leora  Larsen 
Some  days  are  made  to  savor, 
Some  to  weep. 
In  between,  busy  ones 
My  balance  keep.

Pie-Tin  Therapy 
Pauline  L.  Jensen 
IT  is  strange  how  differently  people  latter  actually  isn't  a  problem  at  all, 
react  to  various  situations.    Some  since  it  isn't  hard  to  figure  out  who 
people,  when  wrestling  with  a  prob-  needs  a  pie  the  most, 
lem,  take  long  walks,  weed  a  garden,  Yesterday,  for  instance,  I  went  on 
or  even  scrub  floors  until  they  have  a  pie-baking  jamboree.    I  had  been 
settled  the  issue.    With  me,  I  bake  fretting  all  morning  over  the  dis- 
pies!  loyalty  of  a  friend  —  something  that 
Whenever  I  am  beset  with  a  day  none  of  us  likes  to  have  happen,  so 
filled  with  frustration,  or  some  prob-  at  noon  I  got  out  the  pie-tins  and 
lem   that  is  bothering   me,   I  cast  the   necessary   ingredients   and   got 
everything  else  aside  and  whip  up  busy. 
six  or  eight  pies.     I  figure  that  in  I  had  just  taken  the  first  pie  from 
the  thirty  odd  years  of  my  marriage  the  oven  —  a  cherry  one  with  juice 
I  have  baked  a  total  of  at  least  eight  oozing  out  around  the  edges,  when 
thousand    pies.     That    is    only    an  the  telephone  rang.    It  was  Lou,  my 
average  of  twenty  pies  a  month,  and  neighbor.     "Do  you  have  a  can  of 
counting  eight  pies  to  a  baking,  that  fruit  or  something  like  that?"  she 
means  I  have  settled  one  thousand  asked,  ''Don's  folks  have  just  arrived 
problems  with  a  pie-tin.  in  town,  and  they  will  be  out  for 
The  peculiar  part  of  all  this  is  lunch.    I  haven't  a  thing  —  not  one 
that,     although     these     pie-baking  single  thing  in  the  line  of  desserts  or 
sprees  were  intended  for  my  bene-  sweets." 
fit,  the  end  result  has  been  twofold.  "Cherry  pie,  coming  right  up,"  I 
For  the  minute  I  see  those  luscious  assured  her,  and  heard  her  gasp  of 
looking  pies  standing  end  to  end  on  pleasure. 
the  kitchen  counter,  I  immediately  I  took  the  pumpkin  pie  from  the 
begin  figuring  out  how  many  I  am  oven  and  set  it  aside.  That  one  was 
going  to  give  away,  and  just  whom  for  Dr.  Anna,  for  it  is  her  favorite. 
I'm  going  to  give  them  to.     The  Besides,  she  is  bedfast,  and  seldom 
Page  446

PIE-TIN  THERAPY 
447 
gets  homemade  pie.  I  paused  a 
minute  and  smiled.  It  is  wonderful 
to  see  her  smile  when  I  take  a  pie 
to  her.  She  smiles  so  seldom  these 
days,  that  anything  that  cheers  her 
is  well  worth  the  effort. 
As  I  glanced  out  the  window  I 
saw  Ruth,  another  neighbor,  coming 
home.  She  had  had  a  busy  day  with 
her  Primary  class.  Right  then  I  was 
in  sympathy  with  her,  since  I  am  not 
so  far  removed  from  those  days  my- 
self. Since  Ruth  was  giving  her  time 
and  effort  to  a  worthy  project,  why 
not  send  the  lemon  pie  to  her?  I 
pushed  it  back  to  cool  a  bit  before 
delivering  it. 
The  mince  pie  filled  the  kitchen 
with  its  fragrance.  That  one  I  would 
put  in  the  freezer,  I  decided.  Mince 
pies  keep  so  well.  Then  I  remem- 
bered my  friend  Min,  and  what  she 
had  said  the  other  day.  'Tm  starved 
for  a  pie  with  real  honest-to-good- 
ness  mincemeat  filling.''  Oh  well, 
why  not  give  this  pie  to  Min?  I  had 
several  more  jars  of  mincemeat  in 
the  storeroom.  After  all,  where 
could  I  find  a  better  friend?  I 
thought  of  all  the  nice  things  she 
had  done  for  us,  and  this  I  thought 
was  but  small  payment. 
The  apple  pie  must  go  to  Mar- 
jorie,  for  I  had  planned  it  especially 
for  her.  Chained  to  a  wheel  chair, 
a  gift  of  home-cooked  food  was  the 
most  welcome  thing  she  could  re- 
ceive.   She  had  said  so,  many  times. 
I  glanced  at  the  two  pie  crusts 
standing  on  the  table.  Chocolate 
pie  would  taste  good,  I  thought.  We 
hadn't  had  one  for  a  long  time. 
As  I  lifted  it,  with  its  golden 
brown  meringue,  from  the  oven, 
Bobbie,  the  boy  next  door  came  in 
with  a  package  of  chicken  giblets 
for  our  cat.  His  eyes  lighted  up. 
''Chocolate  pie!  Uhmmmm!  My 
favorite!"  He  sniffed  ecstatically. 
With  a  sigh,  I  slipped  the  pie  onto 
a  baking  tin  for  him  to  take  home. 
After  all,  hadn't  he  just  brought  our 
cat  a  special  evening  meal? 
Quickly  I  stirred  a  custard,  filled 
the  remaining  shell  and  put  it  in  the 
oven.  How  lucky,  I  thought,  that 
I  have  a  husband  who  indulges  me 
in  this  luxury  of  pie  giving.  Not 
once  has  he  objected,  for  he  has  his 
own  philosophy  regarding  this.  ''No 
matter  how  much  we  give,  it  is  but 
small  payment  in  exchange  for  all 
our  blessings,"  he  says. 
I  looked  over  the  array  of  pies 
with  a  feeling  of  satisfaction.  From 
long  experience  I  knew  they  would 
be  well  received,  since  through  the 
years,  I  had  learned  the  technique 
well.  For  my  pies  had  gone  every- 
where —  to  Church,  to  PTA,  to 
Primary  and  MIA  affairs,  and  bake 
sales.  But  best  of  all,  eight  thou- 
sand pies  had  taught  me  far  more 
than  culinary  skill! 
I  remembered  once  again  the 
problem  that  had  sent  me  on  this 
therapy.  I  had  almost  forgotten  it! 
Had  my  friend  been  disloyal,  or  had 
I  taken  offense  without  thinking  it 
through  logically?  All  flesh  is  weak, 
including  mine.  Was  what  she  did 
so  important  after  all?  It  was  over 
—  done  with.  Why  not  forget  it 
now? 
The  afternoon  was  gone,  but  it 
had  been  well  spent.  Enough  pie- 
cheer  for  seven  families,  and  an  extra 
bonus  —  my  worry  disposed  of 
neatly  with  pie-tin  therapy.
