[Vol49 | June 1962 | Sequence: 38 | Category: Fiction | Title: Hand to the Plow — Part II | Author: Ilene H. Kingsbury]
BATHSHEBA  W.  SMITH

HAND  TO  THE  PLOW 
PART  II  -A  QUESTION  TO  BE  ANSWERED 
JJene  H.  Kingsbury 
Synopsis:  A  Welsh  widou'  on  her  way 
to  the  valleys  of  the  mountains  in  1864, 
with  her  family  of  five  children,  pauses  in 
a  railway  station  in  Philadelphia,  awaiting 
a  train  to  take  them  westward.  For  a 
compelling  reason,  the  emigrant  wishes  to 
stop  at  a  small  town  in  Pennsylvania. 
THE  emigrant  was  stunned. 
The  ceaseless  speech  of  this 
man,  who  was  the  pattern 
from  whom  all  future  talkative  rail- 
roaders was  cut,  bewildered  her. 
Her  heart  raced  with  his  words 
across  the  back  of  his  imaginary 
map,  and  already  she  felt  that  trudg- 
ing feet  and  burdened  shoulders 
were  the  chief  requisites  of  land 
travel.  At  her  back  was  an  ocean, 
ceaselessly  rolling.  It  had  consumed 
nearly  seven  tossing  weeks  of  life. 
Fearsome  as  were  the  deeps  of  the 
sea  to  a  land-reared  woman,  still 
more  terrifying  and  confusing,  now, 
was  this  proffered  continent  of  thou- 
sands of  miles  of  earth  stretching  to 
the  valleys  of  the  mountains  where 
refuge  was  assured.  But  the  hegira 
of  getting  to  that  haven  was  so  un- 
certain, so  mystifying,  that  the  emi- 
grant was  led  to  question  her  mo- 
mentous decision  to  transplant  her- 
self on  the  other  side  of  the  earth 
from  that  of  her  birth. 
Last  spring,  in  South  Wales,  no 
one  had  painted  this  picture  of  rail- 
roads with  varied  placed  rails  and 
cooking  stoves  in  each  car,  and 
soldiers  running  one's  children  out 
to  a  bush  for  concealment  from  the 
wind.     The  American   Civil   War, 
Page  412 
between  the  North  and  the  South, 
had  been  mentioned  only  casually. 
Surely  the  war  was  not  near  her  path 
to  the  great  rivers  and  the  high 
mountains.  She  had  concluded  that 
as  long  as  the  South  was  the  rebel 
in  the  affair,  that  the  North  had 
marched  deep  in  and  had  thus  pro- 
tected her  route  to  the  Rockies.  A 
vague  impression  had  been  left  with 
her  that  this  rebellion  had  taken  on 
the  aspects  of  guerrilla  warfare,  was 
a  hit-or-miss  affair,  and  would  cer- 
tainly be  out  of  her  way  by  the  sum- 
mer of  this  year,  1864. 
How  mistaken  she  was.  Although 
spokesmen  in  the  emigration  depart- 
ment referred  to  this  as  the  last  year 
of  the  war,  and  not  as  the  fourth, 
how  were  they  to  be  certain  of  that 
word  last? 
A  week  ago,  back  in  Castle 
Gardens,  while  they  explained  to 
the  uniformed  emigration  authori- 
ties about  where  they  were  from  and 
where  they  were  going  and  how 
many  there  were  of  them,  and  how 
old  they  were,  and  how  it  was  that 
she  had  no  husband  to  protect  her, 
and  how  it  was  that  they  spoke 
English,  while  claiming  Welsh 
nationality,  all  was  confusion. 
In  the  midst  of  this,  a  side  con- 
versation was  indulged  in  which 
gave  her  restless  nights  and  uneasy 
days.  Her  informant  had  called 
this  conflict  a  blood-brother  war. 
He  said  that  fathers  and  sons  met  on 
battlefields  and  took  each  other's 
lives.    He  described  the  burning  of
