[Vol49 | June 1962 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: She | Author: Nibley]
We went to Illinois in February 1839, but did not see the Prophet Joseph until the spring, when he got out of prison and came SHE KNEW THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH to Illinois. A conference was called soon after Joseph and his brethren arrived at Quincy. My brother took my sisters and me and went to that conference, and there I saw Joseph for the first time and heard him speak. I knew he was a Prophet of God, when I joined the Church, before I saw him; my testimony was strengthened when I heard him preach, though at this time I did not get to speak to him. I do not remember when I did first speak to him and shake hands with him. "The Prophet was a handsome man—splendid looking, a large man, tall and fair. He had a very nice complexion, his eyes were blue, and his hair a golden brown. "My first impressions were that he was an extraordinary man—a man of great penetration; he was different from any other man I ever saw; he had the most heavenly countenance, was genial, affable and kind, and looked the soul of honor and integrity. "I have heard the Prophet Joseph preach many a time. I have heard him prophesy, and I never knew but that everything came to pass that he said. "Joseph said we would come to the Rocky Mountains, and he had a company of young men selected to hunt a location for a home for the Saints. Samuel W. Richards was one of that company. I heard of it when we were in Illinois, and _ remember an old lady coming in and talking to my mother, about what Joseph the Prophet had said that we would be in the Rocky Mountains sometime. I said I would like to go soon; I would like to get away from our enemies. She gave me a 411 right good scolding, saying it was terrible to think of going to the Rocky Mountains. "Joseph attended one of our Relief Society meetings in the lodge room. He opened the meeting by prayer. His voice trembled very much, after which he addressed us. He said: 'According to my prayer I will not be with you long to teach and instruct you, and the world will not be troubled with me much longer.' "My testimony today is, I know Joseph Smith was and is a Prophet, as well as I know anything; I know that he was just what he professed to be. I am the only one now living who had her endowments while he was alive, and I received them in Nauvoo before the Temple was built. I have seen many good men, but they had not the gift and blessing that Joseph had. He was truly a Prophet of God" (Young Woman's Journal, December 1905). SMITH BATHSHEBA W. HAND TO THE PLOW PART Il —-A QUESTION TO BE ANSWERED Ilene H. Kingsbury Synopsis: A Welsh widow on her way to the valleys of the mountains in 1864, with her family of five children, pauses in a railway station in Philadelphia, awaiting a train to take them westward. For a compelling reason, the emigrant wishes to stop at a small town in Pennsylvania. HE emigrant was stunned. The ceaseless speech of this man, who was the pattern from whom all future talkative railroaders was cut, bewildered her. Her heart raced with his words across the back of his imaginary map, and already she felt that trudging feet and burdened shoulders were the chief requisites of land travel. At her back was an ocean, ceaselessly rolling. It had consumed nearly seven tossing weeks of life. Fearsome as were the deeps of the sea to a land-reared woman, still more terrifying and confusing, now, was this proffered continent of thousands of miles of earth stretching to the valleys of the mountains where refuge was assured. But the hegira of getting to that haven was so uncertain, so mystifying, that the emigrant was led to question her momentous decision to transplant herself on the other side of the earth from that of her birth. Last spring, in South Wales, no one had painted this picture of railroads with varied placed rails and cooking stoves in each car, -and soldiers running one's children out to a bush for concealment from the wind. 'The American Civil War, Page 412 between the North and the South, had been mentioned only casually. Surely the war was not near her path to the great rivers and the high mountains. She had concluded that as long as the South was the rebel in the affair, that the North had marched deep in and had thus protected her route to the Rockies. A vague impression had been left with her that this rebellion had taken on the aspects of guerrilla warfare, was a hit-or-miss affair, and would certainly be out of her way by the summer of this year, 1864. How mistaken she was. Although spokesmen in the emigration department referred to this as the last year of the war, and not as the fourth, how were they to be certain of that word last? A week ago, back in Castle Gardens, while they explained to the uniformed emigration authorities about where they were from and where they were going and how many there were of them, and how old they were, and how it was that she had no husband to protect her, and how it was that they spoke English, while claiming Welsh nationality, all was confusion. In the midst of this, a side conversation was indulged in which gave her restless nights and uneasy days. Her informant had called this conflict a blood-brother war. He said that fathers and sons met on battlefields and took each other's lives. He described the burning of 414 a great valley where dogs crept away to die, and where refugees had swarmed out of reach of the flames as cattle will stampede before a prairie fire. 'The emigrant had shuddered, but had relented the day she had promised her dying husband to begin, and finish, their journey to America without that strong arm she had leaned on since bridehood. To come to a war was not what she had dreamed of for a dozen years. But it was too late now to turn back.