[Vol49 | June 1962 | Sequence: 29 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes]
Notes on the Authors of the Lessons HIS year one new writer is represented among the authors of the lessons and introduced to readers of the Magazine. A biographical sketch of Dr. Virginia Farrer Cutler, author of the work meeting discussions, "The Latter-day Saint Home," follows: Dr. Virginia Farrer Cutler was born in Park City, Utah. She was awarded a B. S. Degree and teaching certificate from the University of Utah, and for three years was a teacher of home economics in Utah high schools. In 1929 she was married to R. Garr Cutler. Their son Robert was born in 1930, and a son Garr was born in 10932, after the death of the father. Later Mrs. Cutler resumed her professional career and continued her education. She received a Master's degree from Stanford University in 1937, and a Ph. D. From Cornell University in 1946. For eight years she was professor and head of the home economics department at the University of Utah. For seven years she served in Southeast Asia as home economics technical adviser for the international co-operation administration of the United States Government. Devoted to the cause of education, Mrs. Cutler has personally established several scholarships in home economics at various universities, and has contributed to other scholarship projects. She has sponPage 468 sored and assisted in directing manv special educational programs in home economics. She helped to plan the drive for funds to establish the Sterling W. Sill Home Living Center at the University of Utah, and she was an unofficial consultant for Brigham Young University in planning the Heritage Halls and the College of Home and Family Living. Her publications have included a large number of contributions to the Cornell Press Bulletins, professional home economics journals, and to Latter-day Saint periodicals. She is a member of Omicron Nu; Pi Lamba Theta; Sigma Xi; Epsilon, Epsilon, Epsilon; and other scholastic and honorary societies. From 1947 to 1961, Mrs. Cutler was a member of the General Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. Her sons fulfilled missionary assignments, one in Germany and one in Austria. Garr Cutler received his medical degree from the University of Utah and is now a member of the United States Air Force Medical Corps. Robert Cutler, who received his Ph. D. From Princeton University, was a member of President Kennedy's staff in the Bureau of the Budget. He died in January of 1962. Mrs.

Cutler was appointed dean of the College of Family Living at Brigham Young University in 1951, and now makes her home in Provo, Utah. NOTES ON THE AUTHORS OF LESSONS For biographical sketches of the authors of the other lessons, see the Notes in The Relief Society Magazine, as follows: Elder Roy W. Doxey, author of the theology lessons, June 1957, page 410. Christine H. Robinson, author of 469 the visiting teacher messages, June 1957, Page 412. Elder Briant S. Jacobs, author of the literature lessons, July 1949, page 471. Elder Ariel S. Ballif, author of the social science lessons, June 1961, page 420. Geneva H. Williams I think of them there in the twilight When the night shades begin to fall, Father and Mother in the dear, old home That has known and sheltered us all. The house seems quiet and lonely, now, Since the children are grown and gone, But the bees still hum in the orchard bloom, And the birds sing the same sweet song. The evening star hangs over the mountain, The whippoorwill calls to its mate. The rising moon makes a path of gold On the shimmering blue of the lake.