[Vol49 | June 1962 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Buehner]
The Blessings of Family Unity Irene W.. Buehner For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife and they twain shall be one flesh. Wherefore they are no more twain, but one flesh (Mt. 19:5-6). NE of the nicest things Oo about marriage is acquir- ( ue) ing membership in a new Hey family. This does not take the place of your own family, but merely enlarges your sphere of affection. If married couples are "no more twain, but one flesh," as the Lord intended, we should accept and love all those who enter our families through marriage as our very own. With this new membership, comes the responsibility of fitting into the established family pattern. This is made so much easier if one is welcomed into the family with warmth and love. When members of the family develop a genuine fondness for one another, they are well on their way toward family unity. The Buehner family has tried to accomplish this family unity. Perhaps a glimpse into the lives of Grandpa and Grandma Buehner will reveal how well they have succeeded. When the Latter-day Saint missionaries knocked on the door of the Carl F. Buehner home in Stuttgart, Germany, in the year 1899, they found a devoted young couple who listened to their words. It is the spirit that converts people to the gospel, and as a family we shall always be grateful to the missionaries who kindled that spint within Grandma and Grandpa Buehner. They were baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on October 31, 1899. In the spring of 1901, Carl F. Buehner, his young wife Anna Bertha, and their two infant sons, Carl, age two, and Otto, a babe in arms, emigrated to Salt Lake City, Utah. Their story is the story of hundreds of converts to the Church who at that time felt the urgency to come to Zion to establish a home close to a temple of our Heavenly Father. What a sad day it must have been for these people to leave father, mother, and dear ones behind and embark for a new world. It is difficult for those of us who have not experienced this to understand what their feelings must have been. I am always pained when I see an uprooted tree, with its bare root fibers exposed to the ravages of drying sun and wind, but there is comfort and hope when we find a young tree transplanted in a new environment where it will receive plenty of water and sunshine to make it fruitful. The Buehners found their new environment fruitful and a land of opportunity. The people in this new land were kind and helpful. However, there were problems to overcome, and there were difficult times ahead. Grandpa Buehner worked hard to support his family and establish a home. 'The language was difficult to: learn. They studied and lived the gospel principles, and on March 18, 1903, they were endowed and sealed for all eternity in the Salt Lake 'Temple. Page 40] 402 fee + RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 THE CARL F. BUEHNER FAMILY Photograph taken in Stuttgart, Germany, just before the family left their native land for a new home in America. Standing: Carl F. Buehner; seated: Anna Bertha Geigle Buehner; children, left to right: Carl W. Buehner, age two; Otto Buehner, age six months. RANDPA Buehner purchased property in the Forest Dale area near what was then known as Brigham Young's farmhouse. With his own hands, he built a large twostory, gray stone house for his family. Most of the Buehner children were born in that house, which was to be the home of the parents as long as they lived. Eleven children were born to this couple, eight sons and three daughters. The first three children were born in Germany, a daughter Frida, who died soon after birth, Carl W., and Otto. Walter, Adolph, John A., Philip H., Paul, Bertha, Clarence, and Helen were born in America. Walter and Adolph died in their youth. In a family of boys, you can imagine how welcome those two little girls were. Helen remembers receiving a card from her father, written in his best English, when he THE BLESSINGS OF FAMILY UNITY was on a trip east, which said, "There isn't a little girl in all New York who is as sweet as you. Your loving Daddy." Grandpa Buehner had a firm, unwavering testimony of the truthfulness of the gospel. An old friend of his wrote a letter to my husband in which he stated: "You had the best. Father anyone could ask for. He was _ the same every day, six days a week." All of his children can remember Grandpa Buehner testifying of his knowledge that the gospel was true and that prayers are answered. He literally led the way to Church for all of his family, usually a pace or so_ ahead of his beloved wife and the children. They sat in the same place every Sunday at meeting. The Buehner home was an oldfashioned home. Making bread and milking cows were regular - procedures. Early to bed and early to rise was expected by the parents and accepted by the children. The boys worked as soon as they were able to hold a trowel steady. The girls were taught to cook, darn, mend, and sew. Every Buehner daughter-in-law remembers when she was married finding the shoe boxes of socks in her husband's wardrobe. Each stocking was neatly initialed, darned in innumerable places, and rolled carefully in place. Waste and extravagance were never tolerated. The family home was like a magnet which drew all the family and their friends to it. The boys always brought their girl friends home to meet the family, usually on Sunday evening after sacrament meeting. At first I thought the purpose was to give the girls the opportunity of meeting the family, but later I realized the reverse was true. The boys 403 wanted the family's approval of their choice. Grandma Buehner served delicious sandwiches, made _ with homemade bread, and plenty of good milk. Frequently there were tasty apple cottage cheese pies, too, which were kept in a wide drawer in the kitchen table. Many times some of their German friends would call on them also. One I remember in particular played a _ bandonion. Whenever Brother Laubengaier came, Grandpa Buehner would bring his smaller bandonion out of its hiding place and join in playing beautiful hymns and Strauss waltzes. There was such a wonderful warm feeling in the home that every newcomer felt welcome and wanted. RANDPA and Grandma Buehner seemed to accept wholeheartedly the girls their sons chose to marry. 'Their affection for each of us seemed to be just as deep as for their own children. As a result, the entire family followed the pattern of acceptance which the parents manifested toward us. 'Their primary concern was for the children to have temple marriages and all of them had this privilege. Each Buehner brother and sister is vitally interested in the other's welfare in a subtle and unobtrusive way. One incident that was not quite so unobtrusive happened at the time John Buehner gave his diamond ring to Verda. John had sought what he thought was a less "trafficked" area as the place to propose marriage. He had just placed the ring on Verda's significant finger, when brother Paul burst into the room to borrow a tie. He grasped the situation at a glance and hastily kissed Verda in brother- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 zz THE BUEHNER HOME, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH This two-story gray stone home was built by 'Grandpa'? Carl F. Buehner, with his own hands, and has been the center of family activity for many years. Seated on the step, left to right: Bertha Buehner Lambert; Paul Buehner; Clarence Buehner; Helen Buehner Woods. Standing, left to ght: John A. Buehner; * 'Grandma" Anna Bertha Geigle Buehner; "Grandpa" Carl F. Buehner; Philip H. Buehner. Ly welcome before John had a chance. There is a pronounced strain of good humor in all the Buehners. This was a delightful characteristic of Grandpa Buehner. I remember hearing him describe hard times by saying, ""The bread was cut so thin we could read the newspaper through it." My earliest recollection of the Buehner family was hearing of their athletic prowess. The name Buehner was posted prominently on high school and Church tournament scoreboards. The family enjoys telling the story of Grandpa Buehner first football game. In spite of the fact that his sons had been so active in sports in their school years, their THE BLESSINGS OF FAMILY UNITY father had showed little interest. He had never seen a game. Otto finally persuaded him to go with him to see this particular one, because John was expected to star.