[Vol49 | June 1962 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Lesson | Title: LESSON | Author: Wilkinson]
OD CON An DW N ~ LESSON DEPARTMENT There are many materials from which to choose, but the ones most suitable for use in Relief Society are: 1. Blackboard The blackboard is one of the most common, inexpensive, but versatile, visual aids. Most of our ward chapels are being equipped with permanent blackboards in classrooms. There are also portable blackboards which rest on an easel or are built ona frame. The blackboard can be used in presenting an outline, keeping a question or problem before the group during the discussion, making a drawing or sketch which helps explain an idea, enlisting interest by focusing attention on what is being put on the board, summarizing the lesson, and for many other purposes. A class leader would do well to use the blackboard regularly and for at least one thing during each lesson presentation. 2. Maps: Flat Relief or Globe Maps are an important item in understanding the circumstances surrounding history. 'They will be of particular value this year in theology and literature. A map of the United States, indicating the location of Independence, Missouri, the predicted center place of Zion, in relation to the rest of the country, would be helpful in presenting the- 'Ology lessons 41 and 42. The same map could be used to point out the movement of the Church westward from New York to Missouri. 457 3. Pictures: Photographs, Paintings, Cartoons, Drawings, Pictures from Newspapers, Magazines, or Books Pictures serve as good substitutes for first-hand experiences. 'They may vitalize, clarify, and focus attention upon the purpose of the lesson. 'They should be artistic and colorful, of high quality, and accurate in detail. Pictures are usually inexpensive and easily obtained, and may be used to illustrate a multitude of ideas. A picture of the seamed, burdened face of Abraham Lincoln reflects his struggle to keep the United States a single republic. Pictures of foods and household items attract our eyes to advertisements of products competing for our attention and money. A picture kit for this year's literature lessons is being prepared. It consists of a large picture of each author discussed, a print of Walden Pond for the Thoreau lessons, and an illustration for the lesson on Moby Dick. The lesson an Abraham Lincoln will be given in February when school and community libraries will be featuring Lincoln exhibits. Look for additional material in magazines and newspapers at that time. 4. Charts Charts, whether single or in a series, are very convenient teaching aids because of their permanency and portability. Prepared in advance, charts save teaching time and are effective in listing ideas or presenting summaries. Printed card charts with important key words and ideas displayed on a stand-up pasteboard easel help to guide a group discussion. Charts should be simple. Don't 458 try to tell the whole story on one page. Remember, if you want your chart to be read, be brief and illustrate only the important points. Charts may prove helpful in the social science lessons this year. 5. Bulletin Boards It is recommended that every ward Relief Society have a bulletin board with someone in charge of keeping it attractive and up to date. It can be a valuable teaching and training aid as well as a promotional and advertising aid. Magazine representatives will find unlimited use for it. 6. Posters Posters are used widely in commercial advertising. The same principles can be adapted to religious education. 'The message of a poster should be obvious at a glance. Posters would be helpful for work meeting lessons and Magazine promotion. 7. The Flannel Board The flannel board is recognized as one of the most valuable aids in story telling. The value of the flannel board depends upon the quality of the pictures used and the skill of the person using it. The flannel board consists of a board usually about two by three feet in size, covered with a piece of flannel cloth. Pictures, which have flannel pasted on the back of them, are placed on the board as needed. Each picture is a cut-out of a person, object, or scene and is manuevered to illustrate the point which the story is trying to emphasize. It creates motion and attracts considerable attention. ReRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1962 member to keep the presentation simple; keep the flannel board uncluttered and do not use too many figures. The flannel board could be effectively used in this year's work meeting lessons. Other suggested materials, more expensive, but very helpful if they can be afforded, are filmstrips, slides, Opaque projectors, and recordings. Remember there is no "best type" visual aid. Different situations require different aids. The best judgment of the teacher should determine the one to be used. A motion picture may be ideally suited to one situation, while a chart or a flannel board will be most effective in another situation. Each aid selected for use in a particular lesson must contribute directly toward the development of the objective of that lesson. The resourceful class leader will begin early to collect and classify her materials. As soon as the lesson previews are published, she should be alert to those helps that will enrich her teaching plans. She should read each individual lesson as soon as it is published, in order to give further thought, organization, and preparation to her materials. The ward leader should consult her stake leader as to the suitability and appropriateness of her materials in the leadership meeting. It is there that she may also get ideas from other ward leaders. Remember! Although visual aids are an efficient supplement, they are not a substitute for good teaching. They are only aids to instruction, a means to an end. 'Too often a teacher will use visual materials as a "crutch" upon which to lean, LESSON DEPARTMENT expecting them to speak for themselves. Under such circumstances they are valueless. They do not exist by themselves, but are only a part of a teaching method. When skill- 459 fully integrated with that method, they give warmth and sparkle and permanence to what every eager, understanding Relief Society class leader would have her sisters learn. The following articles on this subject have appeared in The Relief Society Magazine: "The Value and Use of Audio-Visual Teaching Aids in Relief Society," January 1953, page 27, by Leone G. Layton. "Suggestions on Teaching Aids for the 1953-54 Lessons," June 1953, page 418, by Leone G. Layton. "Teaching Aids for the 1954-55 Lessons," June 1954, page 400, by Edith S. Elliott. "Teaching and Teaching Aids for the 1955-56 Lessons," June 1955, page 403, by Mildred B. Eyring. "Audio-Visual Aids for 1956-57," July 1956, page 475, by Mildred B. Eyring. "Teaching Aids for the 1957-58 Lessons," June 1957, page 398, by Mary R. Young. "Teaching Aids for the 1958-59 Lessons,' June 1958, page 399, by Mary R. Young. "Using the Blackboard in Teaching Lessons in the Relief Society," April 1960, page 228, by William E. Berrett.