[Vol49 | June 1962 | Sequence: 37 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Far Although I have been a member of the Church for over two years, I have never before written to express my appreciation for our inspiring Magazine. It has meant much to me and has helped to make Relief Society very dear to my heart. If only every woman could realize the importance of regular attendance at Relief Society, the happiness, strength, knowledge, and spiritual growth one can gain. —Mrs. W. R. Deputy Whittier, California For many years I have enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine — the inspirational lessons, the uplifting poems and stories. I have especially appreciated the serial "Sow the Field With Roses," by Margery S. Stewart (concluded in June 1962). I looked forward each month to another chapter because the story was so well written. —Mrs. Ivinetta R. Oliver Albany, New York I think I read the first copy of The Relief Society Magazine, and have been a constant reader ever since, always finding something written especially for me. I can't remember the numerous times my spirits have been lifted or my problems have been solved by the inspiration I received. The joy I get from the beautiful new covers is worth the subscription price several times over. —Vilate R. McAllister Salt Lake City, Utah I am very grateful to my mother for sending me a year's subscription to The Relief Society Magazine each year at Christmas time. I am a young mother with five small children, so there is always much to do. I feel that the time I use in reading the Magazine inspires me to be a better wife, mother, and neighbor. My husband teaches school, and he enjoys the Magazine as I do. I hope that all Latter-day Saint mothers will realize the importance of the Magazine in their homes. —Ethelyn H. Peterson Las Vegas, Nevada Page 394

The April issue of The Relief Society Magazine arrived today. It is beautiful. May I offer my congratulations for such an array of lovely articles and stories, poems and recipes. I like the introduction of color you have been using to highlight the titles. It makes each page clamor to be read. The Magazine is rapidly becoming a work of art in arrangement and style, appealing to our artistic senses, as well as to our intellectual needs. All of this lovely work enhances the spiritual quality of the Magazine. —Marion Pinkston President Los Angeles Stake Relief Society For the past ten months I have receive The Relief Society Magazine through th generosity of Mrs. S. Lichfield of Ogden Utah. I feel that I must compliment y on the excellence of its contents. Quality is consistently good — helpful an inspiring. —Mrs. E. Hawkes Gosforth Newcastle Upon Tyne England A few years ago my daughter Rosalie" added the wonderful Relief Society Magazine as part of my birthday gift, and each year she has renewed the subscription for me. We haven't been able to keep our Relief Society meetings going in this small town, but the Magazine is very dear to me, and I love to read it from cover to cover. —Mrs. Rose R. Stokes Promontory, Utah The Relief Society Magazine is a most gratifying addition to my many periodicals that keep me alert, but with all its worth and uplift, it has a blessed repose th makes one choose it from among th and excitement of our current trend. —Bertha A. Kleinman Mesa, Arizona