[Vol49 | June 1962 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Poem | Title: Before | Author: Gabbott]
[Before the Word Goes Forth Mabel Jones Gabbott]

he necessities. You'll never go hungry." Slowly Joyce walked through the apartment. 'The years that Roger had been going to school they had always had enough to eat, although not expensive things. 'Their apartment was comfort<''2, much nicer than the homes of many of the mar- TO YOU WITH LOVE ried students. There was the rich brown carpet that Roger's parents had given them, the golden drapes and beige chair that her parents had been kind enough to buy for them, and the couple who had lived there before them had left their kitchen set. We have been fortunate and so blessed, Joyce realized. I just can't take away from the Lord what is rightfully his. He has given us so much. The next day Joyce planned carefully to make Roger's birthday special even though he wouldn't be getting a special birthday present. It was a happy time for her, and little Bobbie seemed to sense the excitement and gaiety of the event as Joyce made Roger's birthday present. A beautifully set table, with pink candles glowing softly, greeted Roger as he stepped into the apartment the evening of his birthday. Joyce greeted him in a crisp, pink cotton dress. Her golden hair gleamed in the candlelight. "Happy birthday, dear," she said gently as she kissed Roger's cheek. "Dinner is just about ready." The evening was spent happily remembering birthdays past, and discussing future plans. Joyce had put off giving Roger his present as long as she could, and when she handed it reluctantly to him, she was fearful that he would not like it. "It isn't much, dear, but I wanted to give you something. I really wanted to buy you the new fishing equipment, but I guess that will have to come later." Roger's eyes clearly reflected love as he slowly opened the card that was attached to the package. He added, "You know that I wouldn't 423 have enjoyed the fishing equipment, Joyce, knowing that we really could not afford it." OGER read the card.