Sarah Jenne Cannon By Annie Wells Cannon One by one the members of that great caravan of Utah pioneers who traversed prairie, plain, and mountain pastures to seek a refuge in the wilderness, turn their faces homeward to the land of eternal peace. For them the day is done; they have trekked the desert sands of life's long journey to the end of the way; but the radiant glow of life's setting sun casts its "line of light" along the silent past with pleasant memories and over the uncertain future with hopeful promise.. At noon-time on Mothers' Day, May 13, 1928, Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon, a beloved mother in Israel, passed to her last long sleep as she smilingly recognized tender messages from absent loved ones.: "Aunt Sarah Jane," as she was lovingly called, was in many respects a remarkable woman; and her unusual and unique traits of character caused her to be loved and revered not alone by her intimates, but by a host of friends. Her long life?a span of nearly eighty-nine years?was illumined with kindly service. She was. One of those whose greatness lies in walking nobly among the common things of life: the tasks of the pioneer woman? spinning, weaving, sewing, knitting, darning, gardening, baking, candle-dipping, soap-making?all these were dignified under her 
 hands?hands which were never idle. One of her favorite quotations was, "Do the duty that lies nearest;" and this she exemplified in her daily life. Nor did her industry diminish in later and more prosperous years; her war-time productions were quite wonderful; and it is believed that had she kept a record of her work, it would equal that of any one; so swiftly did her needles fly in the making of sweaters, socks, jackets, etc., for the soldier boys. Comparable with the industry of her hand was the industry of her fine mind. She was most fond of reading, especially the scriptures and the poets. Though advantages of education in early life had been as. Sparing as her living, she eagerly sought knowledge out of all good books and stored her mind with rich treasures of thought. Naturally she was an interesting conversationalist. As life had been so full of love most freely given, so in turn, when in advanced years she needed tender care it was abundantly hers. She died at the home of her son Preston and his sweet wife, Mabel, in beautiful Glendale, California, where flowers bloom all the year, and the air is pungent with the tang of brine from the waters of the great Pacific. Her funeral was held in the Eighteenth Ward Chapel, where, to her mortal remains surrounded by a mass of flowers, friends and loved ones paid their. Last tribute. Sister Sarah Jane Jenne Cannon was born September 11, 1839, in Camden, Upper Canada, where her parents had temporarily moved. From New York state. There they joined the Church and moved westward. They were at Nauvoo during the last years of the life of the Prophet Joseph Smith; and though but a child at the time of his martyrdom she remembered having heard him preach, and sensed the deep mourning of the people over his death. Her family were in the exodus from Nauvoo, coming to the valley of the Great Salt Lake in 1848. She walked all the way across the plains from the Missouri river. Her first home in the valley was in the Old Fort, now known as Pioneer Square. She was an attendant at the early schools and a member of the first Sunday School of the Church. On April 11, 1858, she was married to George Q. Cannon, by whom she had seven children, six sons and one daughter?the latter, Sister Rosannah C. Irvine, a member of the present General Board of the Relief Society. Aunt Sarah Jane manifested always a willingness to make any sacrifice required for the Gospel's sake. One notable instance occurred at the time of the "Move," when Johnston's Army came in 1858. Elder Cannon was placed in charge of the Church printing press and took it with his family to Fillmore. On the return trip he was met at Payson by a messenger from President Young with news that he had been called on a mission to the Eastern States and that the company of missionaries with whom SARAH JENNE CANNON 375 he was expected to cross the plains were to leave the following day. Within an hour he was on the way with the messenger, leaving the young wife by the roadside in care of his brother David?she was as staunch in supporting her husband in his obedience to the call as he was in fulfilling it. In his other missions which followed she endured much poverty uncomplainingly and supported herself and little ones with untiring industry, counting no requirement too severe in the cause of truth. Sister Cannon's Church activities were manifest in two directions?Temple work and Relief Society. When the Salt Lake Temple was opened in 1893 she was called as a worker therein and faithfully carried on that work over a period of twenty years, scarcely missing a day. During that time she performed baptisms and endowments for many of her kindred, thus opening the way for their salvation. A rare opportunity permitted her to be present at the dedication of the Hawaiian Temple. She was called upon to speak on that occasion, and bore a beautiful testimony. This privilege was a memorable' event in her life, as it was her husband, President George Q. Cannon, who introduced the Gospel in this land and she, like him, had a loving interest in the Hawaiian people. Sister Cannon's Relief Society work reaches over a long period of time and untiring devotion. She served as a ward teacher and as counselor in the Farmers Ward Society. She had to walk a distance of more than two miles over rough and muddy roads to attend meetings, and much farther to perform the tender visits of mercy required. At the organization of the Cannon Ward she was appointed president of the ward society, a position she held until her increased duties in stake work and on the General Board demanded so much of her time that she was released. As counselor to Sister Mary Isabella Horne in the Salt Lake Stake her talents for organization and regulation of the work proved of great value to that great leader among the women. Sister Cannon was a member of the General Board of the Relief Society under the presidencies of Zina D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, and Emmeline B. Wells. In 1898, following the death of Sarah M. Kimball, she held the position of third vice-president, in the General Board, an office discontinued after the death of Zina D. H. Young. Her Relief Society work was thoroughly performed, whether as a humble teacher or a high official. She traveled in its interest throughout the different stakes of Zion from Canada to Mexico, teaching and exhorting the sisters in the interest not only of the Relief Society but in their daily life as mothers and women of the Church., Gentle, merciful, and loving as she was during all her days, surely it may well be said of her: She fought the good fight; she finished her course; she kept the faith; henceforth there is laid up for her a crown of righteousness.