Our Dauntless West
By Myrtle Janson
Hail, land of our Western homes, Against whose rugged rocks the grand Pacific foams, What wonder that our fathers bled and died for you! We your loyal children would so strive, too, Were we called as they.
Land of promise, land of glory, Land of thrilling, adventurous story; Land of freedom, land of dreams, Land where white the heaven-soul gleams We adore Thee.
Land of cattle, sheep and grain, Of sturdy men who toil, yet seek but honest gain; Land of sage, of stalwart pine, Land of roses, and heaven's sunshine, We glorify Thee.
Land of gleaming deserts, wooded hills; Land of meadow-larks and trilling whippoorwills; Land of painted cliffs, precipitous, Land of snow-capped mountains, gorgeous, God's land; we worship Thee.
Land of refuge, land of progress, Land of eager, dauntless prowess; Land of heroes, musicians, poets, Land of seers, of inspired prophets, Thee we sanctify.
Elizabeth Mary Clegg Brown
By Louetta Brown
Elizabeth Mary Clegg Brown, a daughter of pioneer parents, Benjamin Clegg of Oldham, England, and Grace McIntyre of Millport, Scotland, was born December 8, 1854, at Tooele, Utah. At the age of seventeen years she married James Stephens Brown, a member of the famous Mormon Battalion who was a pioneer and one of the original discoverers of gold at Sutter's Fort, California. The family was of moderate means and endured the hardships of pioneering Utah's arid valleys. Her husband served on several missions among the Indians and became expert as an interpreter of Indian languages. He was a missionary to England and also to the South Sea Islands. He went on his second mission to the Society Islands fifty years after his first mission among the natives. He filled many preaching missions for the Church among the organized stakes and was known as one of the ablest advocates of Mormonism. Mrs. Brown, during the absence of her husband, remained at home where her time was occupied in earning a livelihood and in rearing her family. The writer remembers well her stories of pioneer days and


particularly of watching the seagulls gather upon her father's farm where they gorged themselves with crickets which were devouring the crops and then fly away toward the shore of the Great Salt Lake, disgorge themselves and return and repeat their work until the fields were completely cleared of the destructive plague. When provisions were scarce, she, with others, gathered sego bulbs to add to their food supply, as many were compelled to do in early days. The endurance and resourcefulness required by our parents and grandparents in settling and redeeming the barren waste, fill us with wonder and gratitude. We hardly understand how they could endure the privations and hardships incident to those trying times. Having married at an early age, she had little opportunity of attending school. Her education was gained through actual experience. She was inclined to study and all through her life was a great reader and at the time of her death could converse well on matters of history, current events and national affairs. She was the mother of six children, Lillious Mary, Guardello, Mark Clegg, Benjamin Joseph, Louetta and Myrtle Junetta. She died May 20, 1927. During her life she spent much of her time in Relief Society work. For thirty years she was a Relief Society block teacher, and for a time was president of the Relief Society of the Seventeenth Ward of the Salt Lake Stake. She was known for her generosity and genial disposition and for her abiding faith in the providence of God and the immortality of the soul. She was modest, thrifty and saving, an ideal home maker, a true mother and a devoted wife. No hungry or distressed person was ever turned from her door without aid. She was true to her convictions during favorable or trying times and her last words were, "The Lord's will, not mine, be done." She was a member of Camp Seventeen of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers. It was said of her, at the time of her demise, by Elder Arthur F. Barnes, a life-long friend and neighbor and a former member of the bishopric of her ward, "She was loved by all who knew her, and those who knew her best, loved her most." She is survived by two sons, two daughters, sixteen grandchildren and the following named brothers and sisters, Benjamin Clegg of Grace, Idaho, Peter M. Clegg of Tooele City, Utah, Mrs. Grace Bell of Tooele City, Utah, Mrs. Amelia Pickett of Burley, Idaho, and Mrs. Eliza Hale of Logan, Utah. The sacred esteem in which she was held by all of her children is lovingly expressed in the following Mother's Day contribution to her by her son Mark: