MARY LEACH ADAMS 353
from the blue-back, but she could do no more until her youngest son was becoming a long-legged adolescent. He was a boy of gentle manners and inclined to be studious. As he grew older, she hoarded the money from her yellow butter and white eggs to pay his board at the University in Salt Lake. Later, with the aid of his brothers, she sent him to a famed Eastern school. One of the greatest joys of her life came when he returned to Salt Lake and became an able and loved lawyer of that city. Although she loved her other children unselfishly, he was her "good boy." As she was ambitious for her children's education, so she was solicitous that they be reared in a home of pleasant surroundings. For a long time she was forced to be content with the few pieces of furniture her son James brought home with him from his expeditions across the Plains, and the rough work of the PUMI?local for Parowan United Manufacturing Institution, if my memory has not failed me. One autumn she made great quantities of soft soap?and no woman, unless she has her beginning in pioneer times, can realize the labor that meant. When the soap was done, she took her son Hugh for a driver and set out on the two-hundred and fifty mile drive to Salt Lake. In the city the hardest task?the peddling from house to house?still confronted her. But the woman and the boy drove over the city streets in their homespun clothes, and when the last of the soap was gone, they went to the old Dinwoodey's. The green upholstered furniture that they carried over the rough roads was a pride and comfort for many years. It was "Mother's furniture" and treated as such. With hospitality she was lavish. The fall and spring caravans of Brigham Young on his way to and from Dixie, were the eventful days. Her house was always overflowing with beds and food supplies, and she listened to the talk she had hungered for. Daniel Wells was one of the favorites she entertained. No traveler from the old country, pioneer or tramp, was ever denied welcome. Anyone speaking the brogue of North Ireland was entertained in the same way that she would have entertained the president of the Church. The many friends Mary Ann and William had made in their pilgrimages about the country seldom failed to seek them out. The boys of the Nauvoo Legion made the Adams home their place of rest when they came south. And visiting in those days of slow speed was no simple luncheon or overnight affair. Energy and ambition did not fail her, even when a sickness in middle age confined her to the adobe house that had been built in front of the log one. While she was able, she and William were among the first at the town dances, dressed in the finest they could afford and accompanied by the children. Dancing was not then a half night's entertainment. People came in the afternoon and stayed until daybreak. And the family didn't lie in bed next morning either.


But even the vigor of a pioneer woman who has given her life to battling with the elements and rearing children to meet the conditions she has placed them in, gives out. When she was eighty years old, she died, content to go, and her children about her. Much that she had wanted, life had denied her. In the face of privation she had struggled to keep from compromises and to maintain her pride intact and bright. Though most of her sons and daughters have joined her, she is still a power among her grandchildren and great grandchildren, most of whom she has not seen. "You have the look or a mannerism of Grandmother Adams," is the highest compliment any girl of her family can receive. The shadowy figure is potent yet.