Notes from the Field
Amy Brown Lyman
Social Service Items
National Conference of Social Work: The Relief Society was represented at the National Conference of Social Work, held in Memphis, Tennessee, May 2-9, by the following members of the staff of the Welfare Department: Miss Genevieve Thornton, Mrs. Annie D. Palmer and Miss Helen Midgley. Miss Thornton and Mrs. Palmer were especially interested in the sections where administrative work, professional standards, and family and health problems were discussed, while Miss Midgley attended meetings and discussions on Employment, with its interrelated problems. There were a number of additional delegates from other social agencies in the community.
Noted Visitor: A most interesting visitor to Salt Lake City recently was Miss Helen Pidgeon, of Washington, D. C., executive secretary of the International Association of Policewomen. A luncheon meeting was arranged in her honor by the social workers of the city, when Miss Pidgeon spoke on "The Service of Policewomen." She emphasized the importance of well trained policewomen in all the police departments of the country, and in speaking of the necessary preparation for the work, she emphasized, among other things, the need of social case work training. Miss Pidgeon said the great ideal in the work of the policewoman is protective preventive work. She gave examples of excellent results obtained where communities are properly and adequately supplied with efficient policewomen.
West Recognized: The General Secretary of the Relief Society was recently asked by Miss S. P. Breckinridge to give her views on the present use of volunteer social workers in the United States. Miss Breckinridge, who is a professor in the School of Social Service Administration of the University of Chicago, was preparing a paper on this subject to read at the International Conference of Social Work in France. In a number of the wards of the Relief Society the two-act play, "Past Echoes and Present Pep," was used as a part of the anniversary day program. Following are pictures of four different casts of characters.
"BIBLICAL MOTHERS' PAGEANT" PRESENTED BY THE WELLSVILLE 2ND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ON MARCH 17, 1928.


Benson Stake: Benson stake is succeeding in interesting more young mothers than ever before, due largely to the excellent class teaching. The teachers' conventions have been a source of real inspiration. At the last convention the following teachers' motto was adopted: "Love One Another?To Do This I Must Speak No Ill." A thousand little cards were printed and distributed among the Relief Society teachers of the stake. They were asked always to carry one of these cards when making their visits. An interesting contest is being carried on in the stake sponsored by the Relief Society, in regard to attendance at sacrament meeting. An attendance banner is being passed from ward to ward monthly, as it is merited. Health clinics will again be held in the very near future. On the 17th of March a stake social for the organization was held, with 650 people in attendance. It consisted of pageantry, drama and social dancing. The pageant entitled "The Women of the Bible," was written by one of the local workers, Mrs. Jessie Mortensen of the Amalga ward. The music was arranged and conducted by Mrs. Bertha Mathers and Clara Sparks, both of Smithfield.
Sevier Stake: Excellent programs for the anniversary of the Relief Society were given in each of the wards in the afternoon of March 17, and in the evening a stake dance was given at the Anona Pavilion, where prizes were awarded for the best performance of the old-fashioned dances. There was a large attendance, and an enjoyable time was had.
WASATCH STAKE, MIDWAY FIRST AND SECOND WARDS, MARCH 17, 1928. CAST: "PAST ECHOES AND PRESENT PEP."
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 403
Parowan Stake: At the recent Parowan stake conference, which was partly a Priesthood convention, the women's session, for which the Relief Society furnished the speakers, was so interesting and successful that the officers were asked to take the program to the wards which had not been able to attend conference. This has been done, and all the wards in the stake have had the benefit of the splendid talks given by the Relief Society women on "A More Abundant Life?(a) Health (mental and physical), (b) Cultural and Spiritual, (c) Recognition of Relative Values." The Bishops were very kind in allowing the program to be given in the Sunday afternoon meetings. The 17th of March observance, while always good, was especially fine in all the wards this year. Pageants, programs, plays and other enjoyable features were given. The special activity this year in the Parowan stake is the reading and study of the Book of Mormon. The fine showing made last season in planting flowers, shrubs, etc., shows all signs of being followed up this year, and with the same enthusiasm.
Beaver Stake: The 17th of March was fittingly observed in the wards of Beaver stake. In Beaver City the two wards combined in a dramatic production. The beautiful one-act play "Cornelia's Jewels" from the November 1926 Relief Society Magazine, was presented by the Beaver West ward Relief Society, followed by a very interesting comedy, "Mrs. Jenkins' Brilliant Idea," by members of the East ward Relief Society.
NORTH DAVIS STAKE, KAYSVILLE WARD, MARCH 17, 1928 CAST: "PAST ECHOES AND PRESENT PEP."


BEAR LAKE STAKE, PARIS SECOND WARD, MARCH 17, 1928. CAST: "PAST ECHOES AND PRESENT PEP."
BIG HORN STAKE, LOVELL WEST WARD, MARCH 17, 1928. CAST: "PAST ECHOES AND PRESENT PEP."
Nebo Stake Reorganized: At the quarterly conference of the Nebo stake, held March 26, 1928, Mrs. Hepsy S. Lewis was released as president due to change of residence, and Mrs. May Harding was sustained as her
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 405
successor. Mrs. Lewis, who has labored so efficiently, and who, with her workers, has accomplished so much for this stake, was honored by her board members with a banquet followed by a quilting bee, at which time a beautiful and artistic quilt was made and presented to the guest of honor. Her board members also served in the temple for her on May 20th. On May 23 the new stake board, under the direction and supervision of the new president, Mrs. Harding, gave an elaborate social, which was held in the stake tabernacle. A banquet prepared and served by the presidencies of the nine ward Relief Societies in the stake was the first feature of the program. Place cards bearing a photograph of Mrs. Hepsy Lewis, retiring president, were placed for sixty. Mrs. Mary Curtis was toastmistress, and the following toasts were responded to: The Relief Society, To the retiring board, Loyalty and service, The teachers and their work, The class leaders, Ward president and officers, Reminiscences, The new stake board. Short talks were given by Mrs. Lewis and Arza C. Page of the stake presidency. A program from the Payson wards included readings and musical numbers. A general hand shake concluded the entertainment.
Teachers' Cards: Following are cards prepared and used as teachers' creeds:
BLACKFOOT STAKE Relief Society Visiting Teacher
MY CREED I will prayerfully study the outlines before visiting. I will keep to my subject. I will scatter sunshine. I will not gossip. I will bring one new member into the Relief Society this year. I will attend my meetings regularly as an example to those whom I visit.
GRANITE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY
My Duty and Privilege as a Visiting Teacher Is:
To be dependable. To make prayerful preparation for my visits. To deliver my message. To leave my troubles at home. To speak no ill. To be a mother in my district. To live worthy of my calling. To attend all my Relief Society meetings.


To take sunshine into the homes I visit. To look for something beautiful in every home. To attend Sacrament meetings. To think of Christ, our Savior, every day.
LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in September)
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR SEPTEMBER?THE HOME
The Home as an Educational Institution
"For every child let truth spring from the earth, and justice and mercy look down from heaven."
I. Home largely determines direction of child's education.
1. Use of choice language and well modulated voices in the home.
2. Discussion of current topics and subjects of an elevating nature.
3. Individuals receive preparation in the home to take their places as social beings.
A. Teaches civic responsibilities and opportunities, respect for authority, obedience to law, loyalty, self-restraint, the conforming of his will to the will of others, self-control, temperance, courtesy, honesty, etc.
"Neither life nor the getting of a living but the living together, this, must be the single public end."
SCOWCROFT'S Blue Pine Preserves
Are composed of only pure fruit and sugar cooked together in an open kettle just as you would make preserves in your own home.
For something special ask your grocer for SCOWCROFT'S Blue Pine Raspberry Preserve. It has the flavor of fresh berries.
Kitchen King Jam
Is composed of pure fruit, sugar and pectin in proper proportions to make a delicious jam. Try Kitchen King Raspberry Jam for a delicious spread.
Wedding Bells
All the time it is
Our advice to those who may be concerned: Right now is the time to decide who will make your Announcements or Invitations. You should entrust this work to a firm that assures you the newest in style and correctness in taste. See us now, or send for samples and prices of Printed, New Process Embossed or Engraved Wedding Stationery. Our Line of Social Stationery is Complete and Prices Right The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street SALT LAKE CITY CONSERVATIVE INVESTMENTS BOUGHT SOLD QUOTED Send for our complete EDWARD L. BURTON & COMPANY Established 1899 "PUT AWAY FOR THE RAINY DAY" Southern Pacific Lines OFFER Special Round Trip Summer Fares TO CALIFORNIA POINTS To LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS VIA SAN