[Vol11 | November 1924 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Investing in Love Annie D. Palmer]

Investing in Love
Annie D. Palmer
Just a week till Thanksgiving day. Mrs. Sumner Lance sat resting her head in her hands, thinking, wondering. Thanksgiving day would be the ninth anniversary of their wedding. For nine years she had prepared his meals for Sumner, kept the house in order, and rested and dreamed. For nine years her husband had worked and saved to make the home comfortable. The furniture was good, even luxurious. There were pictures and books and music—everything that had entered into her girlhood dreams, and more than she had known how to dream. Sumner was kind and affectionate. They went to parties, to theatres, to balls. She had few cares and no worries. But Mrs. Lance was not happy.
It may be that her head ached from the revelry of the night before. Perhaps she had caught the gloom that showed on the face of her husband. Or, perchance, her guardian angel whispered censure at her almost useless life.
How her mind wandered, catching first at this item and then at that! Would Sumner want her to give less time to society? She might do volunteer work in the Charity Organization; but she hated to go into the haunts of poverty and vice. She could give her services to the church; but it seemed so dull and uninteresting. Some women had pets, a bird, a poodle; she wanted no cares of this sort, either.
Those dainty little bonbon baskets Margie Simms was making! How she had wished to get hold of them, to get them ready for the popcorn and candy, to fill them and hang them on a Christmas tree! She laughed aloud at the thought of a Christmas tree for two grown up people, for her and Sumner. No, they couldn't have a Christmas tree. They couldn't have anything very nice, just she and Sumner. But she could borrow some "kiddies" for the occasion. What fun to string popcorn some evening when Sumner was at home! How jolly to go out and gather bright rose berries and thread long necklaces for little guests to wear! How interesting to watch the wide open eyes while she would tell to children the old, old, story beginning, "Once upon a time!" She flattered herself she could tell child stories exceptionally well.
From Christmas her thought wandered on into the years, and then back again, back again to now, the week before Thanksgiving and her wedding anniversary. Why not feature children on Thanksgiving day? Why not make her anniversary present to Sumner a? If she had only thought of it a month ago when Dr. Joslyn asked her to adopt a baby? She remembered now that Sumner had seemed a bit disappointed at the time. This baby's father


had been killed in a terrible train disaster, and the poor little mother, whose first born was scarcely a year old, was too frail to undertake the responsibility of providing and caring for the one soon to be born.
The more Marcel thought about it, the more sure she felt that in no other way could she please her husband so much.
"I'll do it," she said to herself decisively, "that is, if I can still get the baby."
She went to the telephone and called Dr. Joslyn.
"This is Mrs. Lance, doctor," she said when he answered, "Mrs. Sumner Lance, yes; do you know how my husband felt about my refusing to take the baby you spoke about? Disappointed. I thought so, well, I suppose I'm too late now; but I just dared to hope you haven't promised it to some one else. Do you really think I could take this baby and—and live? You know I'm not very strong, and may I have it? Oh, thank you, doctor. You see it is to please my husband... You'll keep my secret, of course. I want to surprise Sumner. Our ninth wedding anniversary is Thanksgiving day. I hope—well, of course, you can't say when, exactly. I'll send a basket with some soft flannels, this evening. Now remember, doctor, not a word of this to anyone. Goodbye."
Five minutes later the excited little woman was in animated conversation with her mother; for the path down through the raspberry patch was short, and Marcel Lance wanted an ally.
"You see, Marmee dear, all our wedding anniversaries are painful to Chum, because there are no little folks in the house. His brother Neal who was married on the same day that we were, brought his first born to see us on the day we had been married a year. I imagined even then that I saw a look of sadness on the face of Chum. Of course, he has never admitted it to me; but I just feel that every time there is a new baby at Neal's, our home seems a little more lonely than before."
"And Neal has four?"
"Yes, three boys and a girl. Fine youngsters, too, how does Molly ever manage with them all?"
"A mother gets used to it, dear."
"Do you think I can learn to manage, mother? I do so want to succeed if I take this big responsibility—to make it really worth while."
"Have you considered the sacrifice?"
"Yes, Marmee dear, when I take this baby, I shall say goodbye to everything I love, society, nice dresses, tidy rooms, afternoon naps, everything except Chummy and you."
"Why, my dear—"
"I know very well, Marmee, that some women do go out and have good times and still raise babies, but I can hardly get my work done as it is. Besides, I shall have nothing to wear. Chum
INVESTING IN LOVE 555
gave me forty dollars last night to buy a dress for our wedding party. It will take every cent of that for a layette. And then there's feeding bottles, castoria, catnip and pacifiers. I must put new sleeves in my old green taffeta this afternoon."
"Don't you think you overestimate things a little?"
"Not a bit, mother dear. I have figured it all out, the expense, the care, the worry, the responsibility. You know, I don't believe in going into things blindly. When you have figured the whole cost and decided that a purchase is worthy the price, you try harder to be satisfied with your bargain. Mr. Bing has been trying to persuade me to save part of my pin money and invest in life insurance that will mature in twenty years, and give me a thousand dollars. I propose to invest all my pin money and a good deal besides, in the care of a human soul, and take chances on what it will bring me in twenty years. If it should come to me in the way it came to the mother of young Harold King, ten times a thousand dollars could not measure my excessive joy. I sat where I could see the face of Mrs. King when her son delivered his wonderful lecture, 'Looking to Manhood,' before the big audience in Hapworth hall. She fairly beamed with joy and satisfaction. I tried to imagine that Harold was my boy, and into my soul there came a happiness that I had never even dreamed before, that I can never hope to dream again unless my child shall grow up to do me honor. You must have felt it, mother, when Earl took his degree at college, and when you heard his plea in court for poor old widow Mansfield."
"Yes, dear, yes. And I feel it just the same when your big strong brother John stops in on his way from the farm and tells me how his crops are growing; and I feel it when you make a good resolution and stand by it. It isn't just the child that occupies the grand stand, that quickens the beating of a mother's heart. The silent approval of the conscience means more to her than the applause of the multitude."
"Marmee dear, I want Chum to feel that joy! It isn't right that he should be cheated out of it, when there are so many opportunities to take a child into our home. Of course, I don't know how I shall ever stand the strain, but—"
"If you think the task so great, dear, perhaps you ought not to try. God has not sent children to you."
"God has sent me the opportunity to take one of his little ones to my home. He has blessed me with a good husband and with many comforts, and I mean to try to do my part in the biggest work that was ever given to woman to do. Will you take care of the little one when it comes, until a week from today and keep my secret?"
"To be sure, but—"
"Then it is settled, and I must go to my work."
The week that began with this important decision was per-


haps the busiest week Marcel Lance had ever known. Having made up her mind as to the nature of the anniversary celebration, and taken counsel with Sumner about it, she was determined to make it a brilliant affair. She was equally determined that all social obligations be wiped out with this party so that henceforth and forever she could devote herself to home, husband and baby.
In order to make room for the many guests, she cleared the bedrooms and furnished them with borrowed chairs. She swept and dusted and polished until there was no spot nor blemish about her home, from where the front gate swung open to the far end of the cement porch in the rear. She put new sleeves, collar, and belt on the green taffeta dress, and when she told herself it looked very well, indeed, and since the color was so becoming she could wear it this once with perfect dignity.
And now Thanksgiving was only two days off; and in the two days she must bake and roast and stew, and make a few more of the good luck baskets, and get everything done that would stand doing before the very last day. She had purposely helped Chummy to plan a business trip that would keep him away until the morning of the last day, because she feared he might happen to run in at mother's and see the surprise she hoped to have there for him, or ask some question of the seamstress who was there making the layette.
In the middle of the forenoon the telephone rang. At the very same moment Marcel sniffed burning cake. She answered the telephone.
"Dr. Joslyn," a hurried voice announced, "We have a boy and—"
"All right, doctor, bring it right up to mother's, a boy did you say?"
"Yes, a boy and—"
"Oh, I'm so glad, Goodbye"
And Mrs. Lance hastened to her burning nut cake.
She had barely time to take care of her cake and meet the doctor when his car stopped at her mother's gate.
"I am so glad you are on time, doctor," she said excitedly, following him into the house. "Sumner and I always give each other something, some little gift, you know, on our wedding anniversary. And it's a boy!"
"Yes, it's a boy and—" Dr. Joslyn emphasized the and this time because he had said it before.
"That will please Sumner, I know," interrupted Mrs. Lance. "Set the basket down and let me see the darling."
Dr. Joslyn set the basket down and lifted the blanket that covered it.
"For goodness sake, doctor, twins!" Marcel Lance sank down in the nearest chair, and for a time no one could say whether she were laughing or crying.
INVESTING IN LOVE 557
"Oh you little darlings!" said her mother bending over them in rapt admiration.
"Of course, Mrs. Lance," the doctor explained, "you are not obliged to keep them both. It would be perfectly lovely for them if they could stay together but if—"
"The boy is the stronger, isn't he?" asked Mrs. Lance coming to look again.
"Yes, the girl is frail," answered the doctor. "But a blonde. See her open her round, blue eyes! They are blue, aren't they? Poor little girlie! Mother, which one do you think I ought to take?"
"Well, now, I can't say. It's a question the good kind Father doesn't give most mothers to decide," the mother answered.
"It's to be Sumner's gift," Mrs. Lance said meditatively, "and Sumner would want the boy; just look at the pitiful pucker on sister's mouth. Who is to take her, doctor, in case—"
"In case they are to be separated, one goes to Susan Tuft."
"That cross old cat? No wonder the little thing is about to cry. To be taken away from a perfectly lovely brother and go to Susan Tuft! It can't be done, doctor, it can't be done! It will kill me I know to have them both, but I might as well die a martyr. Mother will you take care of the twins till Thursday night?"
"I certainly will, and I'll help a good deal after that, there, there, little dears, grandmother will fix a bottle!"
While her mother was crooning to the babies, Mrs. Lance took a few careful instructions from the doctor and he left. The door had barely closed behind Dr. Joslyn, when Sumner's boy set up a lusty howl; and immediately the other twin joined in with a pitiful wail. The attention of both women was demanded at once. As Marcel held in her arms the tiny mite of a girl, and cuddled it and warmed its feet before the fire, and put the velvety little face against hers, there was awakened in her heart all the strength of the mother love that had slept. For what woman can feel the clinging touch of baby fingers and not be thrilled with the mother instinct? What woman can sense the baby head rolling on her arm as it gropes for nourishment and not wish that she might clasp it to her bosom?
"Marmee dear," she said when they had made the babies comfortable and quiet, "I just know I shall love this little darling. I wonder what Chummy will say?"
In the hospital ward a few minutes later, Dr. Joslyn gazed upon the peaceful countenance of the frail mother. Her hands had been folded across her bosom. Her eyes were closed in death, and unseen by mortal eyes her guardian angel conducted her spirit to where two motherly women tenderly ministered to her babies. She reached forth her hands in benediction, and a spirit prayer ascended to God for his blessings and guidance for the motherly women.


Sumner Lance had been away from home for four days. As he sat apart in the big hotel lobby that evening, it suddenly occurred to him that Thursday was Thanksgiving Day and his wedding anniversary. He had hoped that he might finish his business and go home on Wednesday morning; but one of the men he must see was out of town. Luckily, Marcel did not expect him till Thursday, anyway. Dear Marcel! She had looked so tired and careworn when he left. Life was so lonely for her with business keeping him so much away. If only they had been given a child! That would have made life so different for Marcel. As for him, it mattered little. To be sure he had wanted a son very much, but a man gets used to disappointments.
He took up a paper and tried to read. Was he homesick? He kept thinking of Marcel and the loneliness of her life. Why not go to the Orphan's Home and see what kind of "kiddies" they have there? Of course he could not take a child home without consulting his wife, but he could see if they looked bright and well. What would it cost to keep a little girl? Could he afford the price? He began to cast up accounts—milk, medicine, doctor's care, schooling, clothes, sleepless nights, days of toil, endless worry—he counted them all just as his wife had done, and just as she had done he decided that he could sacrifice all his pleasure for what would give the greatest measure of joy to the one he loved most. He would go and see the little girls at the Orphan's Home.
It was yet early so he went out and boarded a street car.
A wizzened little spinster opened the door for him, and in answer to his question said: "Yes, there's lots of children here, more than we have room for, and we're glad to get rid of—that is to put some of them in good homes. They're all in bed now. Would you like to look at them asleep?"
"If I may," answered Mr. Lance relieved that he was privileged to see them when they were good.
He was conducted through the sleeping rooms where there was row upon row of tiny, white-covered cots on which rested towseled heads, black, brown and golden.
"Can I have this little fellow?" he asked as he paused beside a dark haired boy.
"I think so," the woman answered, taking the number of the cot. "We will look him up in the office."
The boy threw one arm out from under the cover upturned his face to the light and smiled in his sleep. Dear Laddie, perhaps the angels whispered to him of a real home! Sumner Lance saw the smile, and stood for a moment picturing to himself the sturdy youngster struggling to mount a rocking horse, or building towers with blocks upon the floor of his tidy home. How would Marcel feel about that? He must talk to Marcel first.
INVESTING IN LOVE 559
"Care to look at the girls?" asked the woman.
Yes, he would look at the girls. Following the attendant, he soon came to where they were. The first little girl he saw was irresistible. She was four years old, old enough to be over colic, teething troubles, and a lot of things that would have made the care of her hard for Marcel. She was fair, as a mountain lily, with just a tint of rose color on her round little cheeks. Her hair was the color of evening sunshine and curled ever so softly about her ears and neck. A big teardrop glistened on her cheek, and the wet lashes twitched a way that told Sumner she was not asleep.
"She just came this morning," explained the spinster woman, "and she has cried most of the day for her mother."
"Where is her mother?"
"Died yesterday in the County Hospital."
"I will take this child. May I come for her Thursday morning?"
And so it was settled. Sumner lay awake half the night wondering if Marcel would think him crazy for bringing a child home without consulting her. He had not intended to do it, but what if some one else had taken this little girl? Surely Marcel would like her.
He left the child at the station with the agent's wife when he got home on Thursday, with orders for the express man to bring her to the house at exactly half past eight. He had bought for her a dainty blue frock and ribbon, which he left to be put on by the agent's wife.
It was a merry party that gathered at the festal board that night. The relatives were there, the friends, the social parasites, and there were still others, for Marcel wanted this to be a real Thanksgiving with the real Thanksgiving spirit; therefore she had borrowed several families who were so poor that no holiday could mean anything much. Sumner had not seen the invitations. They read:
"Let's put our work and care away, And all enjoy Thanksgiving Day. We'll sing and dance, we'll play and dine— And this includes all thee and thine. We feature children. Bring them all, There's room and fun for big and small. That man will be in sorry plight Who comes without a child this night. And good luck baskets will await The early comers. Don't be late."
So they came early and the dinner was served piping hot. It was a dinner without a flaw. Marcel directed the serving, told clever jokes and made everyone feel joyously at home. When


the dessert was served she announced that everyone had come on time, and so everyone would receive a good luck basket, and the three young girls who were assisting her came in with the dainty things, two at a time, in their hands. The baskets were filled with popcorn pink and white. But hidden in each was some little surprise—a chew of gum, a fortune slip, a friendly wish, and in special cases a handful of pennies, a nickel or a dime. The arrangement was perfect. Everyone got the right thing.
"Is there a basket for my husband?" asked Marcel, and two of the girls came forward with the clothes basket and placed it on a chair. Sumner took a step forward just as the door opened and an expressman deposited on the floor a tall box. All merriment was hushed. Everyone looked expectant.
"Dear Chummy," said Mrs. Lance almost choking with emotion, "I am giving you tonight a gift that I hope will give you pleasure all the rest of your life. I am perfectly willing to help you take care of it, and I sincerely hope you will like it as well as I do."
"I shall not look until I have presented my gift to you, dear," he said as he removed the light perforated cover from the tall box. Gently he lifted from it the fairy-like little girl in blue and gave her to the arms of his astonished wife. "Her name is Nina," he added, "May heaven help you to keep her."
While his wife sat speechless with the arms of the child clasped about her neck, Mr. Lance uncovered the basket she had given him. An instant he stood spell bound. Then he burst into a laugh that rang through all the house and brought all the guests to their feet. Taking the two babies in his arms the man stood awkwardly and received the congratulations of the crowd. His wife sat silently in her rocker and cuddled the frightened Nina until the child lisped in a baby whisper, "I love you, pretty lady. Is you my nuvver mama?"
When the party was over and the last guest was gone, Sumner Lance seated himself before the open grate to relax his nerves and think. The gifts had been treated as a huge joke, and had caused their friends a deal of merriment, but the fun was over now, and the little folks were here. It was no joking matter, already he felt the heavy responsibility of his fatherhood, the need of living a blameless life in order to do the best by these children. He had seen so much unwisdom in the lives of fathers—had made for himself so many rules of conduct to be lived if he ever had a family of his own. His wife came after a few minutes and laid her hand on his caressingly. "You know, Chummy," she said doubtfully, "we can give one of the twins back if we don't want to keep them both." "Didn't Mrs. Julian say she would take Nina if we care to let her go?" he asked looking at her tenderly. INVESTING IN LOVE — 561 "Yes, Chummy dear, but I can't think of parting with Nina. She has already accepted me as her 'nuvver mama'.". "Which one of the twins shall we give up?" he asked. "Tt's for you to decide, Chummy. Only which ever one it is goes to Susan Tuft. You know how cross she is and it does seem like they simply have a right to each other, being twins." "I say, dearie, what have we done with all the other presents we have given each other?" "Treasured them up, Chummy, and loved them, always." "And here we are, just because we have generously collected for each other two little girls and a boy, wondering what to do about it. Suppose we keep them all." "Now you are my own dear Chum," she answered, as she joyfully threw her arms about his neck. "I was so afraid you wouldn't like the twins." A satisfied smile overspread the countenance of Sumner Lance as he enfolded his wife in a tender embrace and. Whispered: ate Lo, children are an heritage of the Lord. Blessed is he that hath his quiver full of them.' " II We must close the portals over the following twenty years, while the investment they made matures. Most of our readers can imagine both the premiums and the dividends; for who has not seen the care, the toil and the anxiety, who has not witnessed the joy, the pride and the delight, that come with the rearing of children? And now twenty years were gone, and again it was Thanksgiving eve, the anniversary of the wedding day of Sumner and Marcel Lance. The living room was aglow; but only the family were expected to enjoy it tonight. Mr. Lance sat in his big easy chair with Nina's two beautiful children perched on the arms of it. Marcel and Nina busied themselves in kitchen and dining room, and Nina's husband gazed proudly at his offspring and waited his turn to romp with them. "'Where's mother?" asked Louise entering almost breathless. "Oh, here she is. Daddy, this is for you with love and kisses." And she proceeded to shower the kisses upon him and the babies, and then upon Mrs. Lance, who had entered. "Mother, dear, I wish this gift were a hundred times as good as it really is! I wish I could do something very, very fine | for you, you dearest, best mother in all the world! I wish I could do something that would just make you feel how much I love you! Do the slippers fit, daddy? Do you like the color of the tie? Such little presents for the dearest daddy. I just happened to remember that you liked raisins better, or I should have got you. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a box of chocolates like mother's, Oh, kiddies, I nearly forgot. Here are some Parrot sticks for you." While Louise beamed and chattered, Marcel untied her parcel and now held up to view a fur that had cost the girl a full month's salary at teaching. "My child," she explained, "you cannot afford | this!" "Oh, yes, 'mother, for you I can. Try it on.' And now Richard entered. He also was beaming but from another reason. He passed through the living room whispering as he passed her, "mother." Mrs. Lance followed him. When they were alone he put both arms around her and said softly: "I had to tell you first, mother dear. It has come, my letter from Box B has come. Look!" With trembling hands she took the letter he held out to her, and hastily read it through. "To Great Britain,' she said. "This means that you will carry the gospel to your father's people and mine. That you will be a savior to our house. Oh, wonderful opportunity, my boy!" "I am so happy, mother, and I did not buy any presents today because I want to bear my own expense on my mission.' "God bless you, my son!' Marcel said fervently as tears trickled down her cheeks. "Why not admit us all to the council?' called Mr. Lance. And they: were all admitted. "Oh, Bud, a mission? And you'll give up college and everything?" questioned Louise. "Yes, sister, everything. I should not be a worthy son of mother and daddy if I should give up less than everything for what they have taught me." Richard Lance threw back his broad shoulders and looked a prince in his clean young manhood. "We can help to keep you," volunteered Nina with a glance at her husband. "Trust me for taking care of our missionary," said Louise. "Why are we twins if not to divide up? Ill send Rich half my salary every month. Then I can really have a share in his mission. Oh, Bud, I'm so proud of you!" Then she, too, threw back her shoulders and straightened herself in the dignity of her womanhood. Richard's mission was the main topic of the long evening. Before any of them retired the answer to his letter from Box B had been framed, and an early date fixed for his departure. "The investment has certainly paid, Sumner," Marcel said firmly when she and her husband were alone. "It is twenty years tonight since we made our big investment. The policy should have matured." "And it has," answered Mr. Lance gravely, "it has paid an even thousand fold. The Lord be praised." The Use of Mental Tests By Lofter Bjarnason, Assistant Professor of Elementary Education, University of Utah No two blades of grass or leaves of the same tree are identical. Every animal even of the same species differs from every other and similarly there are no two individuals that are exactly alike. These physical differences in individuals are matters of common observation. Mental differences are scarcely less obvious. No two persons have the same degree of mental ability in all lines of intellectual achievement. This has been known from time immemorial. But why they differ so has not been so well known. We know, however, that intellectual ability depends upon two factors: (1) inborn mental capacity which is held to be limited and fixed by inheritance; and (2) environmental influences which may be largely controlled and modified by parents and teachers. The main purpose of mentality tests is to measure this inborn capacity, or "general intelligence." Other tests called "educational tests" have been devised to measure intellectual ability acquired through instruction and training.. For many years philosophers held that mental phenomena could not be measured in an objective way. Experimental study of the mental life of individuals began less than a century ago. The movement is so recent that many of our most prominent present day teachers of psychology, Hall, Titchener, Neumann, Cattell, Judd and others studied under Wilhelm Wundt, the father of modern experimental psychology. The progress of any science is largely dependent upon the method of investigation and the improvement of the instruments of measurement. No group of investigators have been more conscious of this fact than the modern psychologists. But the workings of the mind are so elusive and difficult to understand that before the last decade little progress had been made in measuring them. It is to men motivated by sympathy for the unfortunate that we are indebted for the tests and scales for measuring intelligence that we now have. Men who dealt with - abnormal individuals were the first to sense the need of testing mentality scientifically. Many and varied tests have been devised. Most of the early attempts were in the form of questions directed to adults and the method of grading was faulty. The main purpose was to ascertain the degree of abnormality and what little light these tests shed on normality came as a by-product. Little was known of standards for adults and nothing of standards 
 for children. In recent years, however, methods have been improved and although the tests and scales are by no means perfect much light has been shed on the problem. Just what this inborn mental capacity or general intelligence is, is difficult to identify. We can see its manifestations but are unable to ascertain its real nature. That however, should not stop us from attempting to measure it. We use electricity for many purposes. We can transfer it from one form to another. We can use it to heat our ranges, to light our houses and to run street cars and railway trains. Though we do not know its exact nature we measure its power and force. In like manner, men are working out the problem of measuring mentality. It is to a Frenchman, Alfred Binet, that we are indebted for the scale that has been used most extensively. In 1904 the Minister of France assigned him the task of separating the subnormal from the normal children of the nation. Binet called to his assistance a physician named Simon. Together they worked out a series of tests to detect sub-normality. These proved so successful that they decided to formulate another set by which they could test the degree of mental development of the children. This latter scale has won such favor among students of mentality of children that they have been used in almost every civilized country with such modification and adaptation as are needed to suit local needs. Drs. Goddard, of Vineland, New Jersey, and Lewis M. Terman, of Standford University, have made adaptations of the scale to use in American schools. For the benefit of those who may not be familiar with this scale, a synopsis of the 1911 revised edition is given below: Children of the different ages given should have the ability Age 3. 1. To point to nose, eyes, and mouth. To repeat two digits. To enumerate objects in a picture. To give family name. ' To repeat a sentence of six syllables. To give his sex. To name key, knife and penny. To repeat three digits. To compare two lines. > o To compare two weights. To copy a square. To repeat a sentence of ten syllables. To count four pennies. To unite the halves of a divided rectangle. THE USE OF MENTAL TESTS — 565 To distinguish between morning and afternoon. To define certain familiar words in terms of use. To copy a diamond. To count thirteen pennies. To distinguish pictures of ugly and pretty faces. To show right hand and left ear. To describe a picture. To execute three orders given at the same time. To count the value of six sous three of which are double. To name four cardinal colors. To compare two objects from memory. To count from 0 to 20. To note omissions from pictures. To give day and date. To repeat five digits, To give change for twenty-five cents.  To define certain familiar words. To recognize all the ordinary pieces of money. To name the months of the year in order. To answer easy "comprehension questions." To arrange five blocks in order of weight. To copy certain drawings from memory. To criticize absurd statements. To answer difficult "comprehension questions." To use three given words in not more than two sentences. To assist suggestion. To make up one sentence using three given words. To name sixty words in three minutes. To define certain abstract words. To discover the sense of a disarranged sentence. To repeat seven digits. To find three rhymes for a given word. To repeat a sentence of twenty-six syllables. To interpret pictures. To interpret given facts. To solve the paper-cutting test. To rearrange a triangle in imagination. To give differences between pairs of abstract terms. 
 4. To give three differences between a president and a king. 5. To give the main thought of a selection which he has heard read. As already suggested this scale is intended to measure mental development to maturity. This development comes through natural growth, training, and experience. Thus the inborn capacity increases as the brain and nervous system grow until maturity is reached. It is the factor in mental life which makes intelligence possible. A person born with capacity for learning but excluded from all opportunities to learn would remain unintelligent. Intelligence, then, must be acquired. The inborn capacity must then, manifest itself through what the individual learns while he is progressing toward maturity; and since the brain and nervous system reach their maximum growth about the fifteenth year, the measure of an individual's capacity for learning at that age is the measure of his mentality. There is, then, no mental age above the fifteenth or sixteenth year and so two individuals one fifty and the other fifteen each getting the score of an average child of 12 would have the came mental age, namely that of 12. The Binet scale attempts to measure the higher and more complex thought processes of the mind and not simple sense perceptions and reaction time as the tests prepared by his predecessors had done. Dr. Terman worked out for each age a standard of normality. This represents the score received by the greatest number of children of a given age. The mental age of a given child is the score he gets on the test. To show the child's position on the scale of mentality. Tern. An used the term intelligence quotient. It is found by multiplying the mental age by 100 and dividing by the age in years. This is known as the I. Q. of the individual and is supposed to remain constant throughout his life. Individuals of different I. Q's are classified by Terman as follows:
Class Above 140............Near genius or genius. 120 to 140........Very superior intelligence. 110 to 120........Superior intelligence. 90 to 110........Normal, or average, intelligence. 80 to 90........Dullness, rarely classified as feeble-mindedness. 70 to 80........Borderline deficiency, sometimes classifiable as dullness, often as feeble-mindedness. Below 70........Definite feeble-mindedness.
The Sanford Revision of the Binet-Simon scale is an individuality test, that is, it must be administered to children in-