[Vol9 | July 1922 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: The General Procession James H. Anderson]

The General Procession James H. Anderson Freight rates in the United States were ordered reduced on July Ist. Italians and Arabs engaged in open warfare in Thipoli, North Africa, in May. V. Ralando Ricci, Italian ambassador to the United States, visited Salt Lake City, Ultah, May 18. Storms and floods in the United States in May, did immense damage, with some loss of life. Lewis W. Shurtliff, of Ogden, a prominent Utah pioneer and Church worker, died on May 2nd. Hottentots in Africa rebelled against Great Britain in May, but soon were suppressed. In riots against the French, in Damascus, Syria, in May, nearly 100 persons were killed, and hundreds wounded. Russia and Germany made a treaty in May, for economic, and in certain emergencies, for military purposes. Germany's representatives at the Genoa conference complain that they were insulted by the conference. Statistics show that the average Frenchman smokes five cigarettes a day less than the average American. The League of Nations council was asked in May to take up the Russian and Albanian problems, but refused. In Chicago, Ills., in May, the chief labor union leaders there were indicted for the murder of policemen on duty. In the New York post office, in May, forty former criminals who had taken civil service examinations and obtained employment there were detected in a conspiracy for wholesale robbery of the postoffice.  China was the scene of a great battle, near Pekin, in May, the contending armies being inactive the rest of the month. The British-Israel Federation will hold its world convention in London, England, in October of this year, instead of in July as heretofore. The coal miners' strike caused considerable trouble in the United States in May. There are threats that the railway unions will join in the strike. In Ireland, the murders of each other by Catholics and Protestants became so prevalent that the British government had to interfere by the use of troops. Major W. T. Blake and two other airmen started from England on May 24, on an airplane trip around the world, to be completed within ninety days. French officials in Paris, in May, charged the Anglo-Saxon race in Europe and America with being responsible for the world's present condition of. Unrest. Great Britain asked the League of Nations' council, in May, to make permanent her mandate over Palestine, but France and Italy, two strong Catholic countries, objected, ond the matter was deferred. The Genoa conference adjourned in May, with but little accomplishment toward peace in Europe. A June conference at the Hague, Holland, was agreed upon. Elder B. H. Roberts became president of the Eastern States mission of the "Mormon" Church in May, and Elder G. W. McCune, former president there, is to become president of a California stake of Zion. A French freighter and British passenger vessel collided off the island of Ushant, in the Mediterranean, on May 24, with a loss of 102 lives. Other sea disasters, with less loss of life, occurred in May. Horatio Bottomley, member of parliament and most radical of anti-American editors in Great Britain, was sentenced, on May 24, to seven years imprisonment for defrauding people in a financial scheme he was operating.  What the Women are doing The national convention of Business and Professional Women's clubs is to be held at Chattanooga, Tenn., July 10 to 16. Mrs. Ignacio Vasquez, 120 years old, died at Globe, Arizona, on May 26. Her eldest surviving son is 87 years old. Mrs. Jennie P. Musser of Salt Lake City was appointed by President Harding, in May, to be collector of customs for Utah. Women's shampooing parlors in London engage in putting monograms on the backs of society ladies in the British metropolis. Dr. Ivy Wilson, of Oxford, England, on May 18 became the first woman barrister in London. Ethel D. Fisher is an American policewoman in Liverpool, England, paid by the United States government to look after interests of American visitors to Liverpool. Seven hundred Syrian women engaged in public demonstrations in Damascus, Syria, in May, for freedom from French rule there. Marinda W. Sundburg, of Sandy, Utah, 'was appointed postmistress there in May, by President Harding. All her competitors were men, Genevieve Cline, appraiser of customs at Cleveland, Ohio, appointed by President Harding, is said to be the highest paid woman official im the United States government employ. Midinettes is the French title for Paris girls who carry through the streets umibrellas with advertisements thereon, as the "sandwich men" in English-speaking nations. Germaine Chanlander, a working girl in Paris, France, captured a $4,000 prize in May, for being the most deserving worker there by reason of her womanly virtues. At Cokeville, Wyo, in May, the people elected a woman mayor and two trustees, thus giving the women a majority of the controlling board of the town. They were elected on a lawenforcement program.: