TO THE Y. L. M. I. A.—CACHE STAKE.
 Dear Sisters: As we wish all the Y.L.M
I.A. in the Stake to work as uniformly as pos-
sible, we deem it necessary to make the follow-
ing suggestions. We wish to be represented in
the Annual Fair this fall. Therefore desire you
to hold meetings at least once in two weeks, for,
the purpose of making articles of fancy work,
as the members of your association, have talent
and taste for making. Such as fine needle work
of all kinds, artificial flowers, in was, cloth, tar
latan, zephyr, and hair, also crotchet work, nett-
ing and knitting; embroidery in silk and cotton.
The best articles to be selected and sent to the
Fair, where they can be sold, thereby creating a
fund to defray the expenses of your Society. If
not sold, held subject to your order. Hold your
regular meetings once a week; encourage a more
thorough reading of our Church works. We
would like toseeall of the columns of the Blanks,
filled ont more fully than the present ones.
**We require one dollar from every associ-
ation In our Stake to be sent to the secretary
(Ally Martineau) to defray the expenditures of
the Central Board for stationery, stamps, etc.
We wish the President, or at least one of her
Counselors, to be present at our Confer-


ence, to be held In Logan on the 20th of May,
to give a verbal report of her Association. We
let you know this early that you may have time
to make your arrangements. When any of your
members are called upon for reading an essay,
or to look up Bible references, to sing a song, to
speak, or write upon any subject, do not allow
them to think they can refuse, but impress it
upon them, that it is their duty to respond to
every call that is made upon them, from time to
time. Use your influence to have them testify
to the great blessings, that we enjoy as a people,
and also to the truth of the Gospel of Christ.
Cultivate a disposition to bear with each other
in taking a part in the meetings. Strengthen
and encourage, rather than criticise the efforts
that are made by your members to discharge
the duties which may be required of them. En-
courage cleanliness in person, and neatness in
dress. When you cannot be present at your
meetings have your Counselors conduct them,
if they cannot attend, appoint some one to take
charge. Your meetings must be kept up regular-
ly. Use chaste and refined language in all your
conversation. Discountenance back-biting or
evil speaking. Strive to obtain the spirit of the
Lord, which will lead you into all truth and
virtue. Continue your meetings until other-
wise notified. May the blessings of the Lord
attend your efforts to improve in all good works,
is ever the prayer of your co-laborers in the
cause of Mutual Improvement.
Your Sisters In the Gospel. 
(Signed)		HARRIET A. PRESTON,
			IDA IONE COOK,
			KINNIE B. CAINE.
				Stake Presidency.
Logan, March 29th, 1882.


