HOME AFFAIRRS.
	The sisters who are putting up fruit, jelly and
so forth, would center a favor upon the sick and
afflicted if they would put up a few cans extra
for the Deseret Hospital.
	We return our sincere thanks to the officers of
the American Woman’s Suffrage Assaciation for
the very kind and cordial invitation extended to
us, likewise our dear friend Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, who has also received a special invita-
tion to attend the Convention, to be held in
Omaha Sept, 12 and 13. We publish elsewhere
the official announcement.
	We have been requested to remind the sisters
who preside in each of the branch Societies, in
this Stake of Zion, that it will be necessary to
furnish a six months report in good time, for the
coming Conference to be held on Friday the
22d of September, in the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms. Secretaries ehould be particularly
prompt in this matter. Each Society should be
represented by the President if possible, or if not
by one of her Counselors or Secretary.
Presiden[-]s of Relief Society Y. L. M. I. A.
and P. A. who preside In the several Stakes of
Zion will please romembor that full semi-annual
reports of these organizations in their respective
Stakes should be forwarded to the Secretary of
the central board early enough to be incorpor-
ated into tbe general report, which is due at
Pres. John Taylor’s office ten days previous to
the coming October Conference. Secretaries
are hereby notified to forward said reports of
Relief Society to Sarah M. Kimball, Salt Lake
City. Y. L. M. I. A. to Louie Wells, Care
Woman’s Exponent. P. A. to Lillie Freeze,
Salt Lake City.
On Thursday August 17, Hon. George Q. Can-
non returned from Washington, whither he
went last fall, as the duly elected delegate to the
Congress of the United States. A party [ink stain on edge of page]
gentlemen and ladies from this city met hi[-] [ink stain on edge of page]
Ogden, according him the honor du[-] to his [ink stain on edge of page]


ition as the people's representative. However
as is well known all over the country, Mr. Can-
non was refused his seat in the House, and Utah
left without representation. The people were
thus deprived of their just rights as citizens of a
great and growing Republic. It is a matter of
deep regret to all lovers of justice and fairness
that such occurrences should take place, especial-
ly when no accusation could be sustained against
him, except on account of his religion; Pres.
Cannon is highly respected in Washington as we
have good reason to know, his record is clear
there without a blot. The people of Utah
hold him in the highest estimation, and he will
live in the hearts of thousands of honest men
and women forever, notwithstanding the decis-
ion of Congress. He was accompanied home by
Bro. John Irvine whose letters from Washing-
ton to the Deseret News have given its readers
Congressional items, in such an intelligent and
agreeable style.
	Meeting at Farmer's Ward S. L. Co. Tuesday
Aug. 22d, 1882, called to organize a Primary
Association, Bishop Louis Mousley present, also
Elder Willard Snow, Superintendent of the
Sunday School of the Ward. The Bishop re-
quested Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith to take
charge of the meeting and organize. Children
sang "We thank thee, O God for a prophet."
Prayer by Mrs. M. I. Horne, sung "O, my
Father" etc. Sister Eliza then made some re-
marks to the children, and the following officers
were nominated and sustained. Mrs. Sarah A.
Cannon, President; Mrs. Reba B. Pratt and
Miss Mamie Alice Cannon, Counselors; Miss
Clara Woodruff, Secretary; Master Hugh Can-
non, Assistant Secretary and Master Joseph S.
Mousley, Treasurer. Thirty-six names were en-
rolled as members. Sister Eliza gave some ex-
cellent instruction to the children and Sisters
E. C. Clawson, E. S. Taylor, M. I. Horne and
E. B. Wells each occupied a few moments in
addressing the children. Sung "Praise ye the
Lord," benediction by the Bishop.
	At noon the ladies repaired to the residence of
Mrs. Emma Woodruff, where a delicious dinner
was served. At two p. m. there was a special
meeting of the Relief Society, Mrs. Emma
Woodruff presiding. After singing and prayer,
minutes were read, and the meeting was ad-
dressed by Sisters M. I. Horne, Helen Mar
Whitney, E. S. Taylor, R. R. Grant, E. B.
Wells and Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith. Many
interesting subjects were alluded to and ideas
thrown out and suggestions made, calculated to
do much good if put in practise.


