A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.
MARY ISABELLA HORNE.
Continued.
After the return of the Horne family from
Parowan, and the husband’s return from Dixie,
prosperity seemed to dawn upon them propit-
ously, and their home was indeed a happy one.
Boys and girls just merging into manhood and
womanhood attracted attention to the house,
and the young people of the Ward, and indeed
of the City, were fond of spending their even-
ings at the home of these young folks; the
children were all of them singers too, and
musically as well as socially inclined, which
generally makes homes more attractive, not
only to the inmates but to friends and acquaint-
ances.
 There is nothing more delightful, than a
house full of cultivated, young people, es-
pecially, those who sing and play, and are
somewhat accomplished. Large  families
where all is orderly and each one takes pleas-
ure in the other’s happiness are the most’charm-
ing homes. Such a one was Mrs. Horne’s;
peace, contentment and quiet brooded over the
habitation and like the woman mentioned in
Proverbs, “She openeth her mouth with wis-
dom and in her tongue is the law of kindness,”
“She looketh well to the ways of her house-
hold, and eateth not the bread of idleness.”
Mrs. Horne is not only industrious herself
but she has trained her children in habits of
industry and punctuality that will recommend
them in every situation in life, whether public
or private.
Mrs. Horne’s eldest son Henry was married
July 24th, 1860, to Miss Mary Ann Crismon.
This was quite an important event, being the
first marriage in so large a family. It was a
union in every way desirable to all parties con-
cerned and has proved to be a happy one. At
resent and for some years past, Henry Horne
as resided with his family in Paris, Idaho,
where he is highly respected.
On the 5th of April 1861, Mrs. Horne’s
fifteenth child was borne, a daughter, and was
named Clara Ella. The mother’s health had
been quite delicate for some time, and she was
ill prepared to endure any additional hardship
or trial, but about two weeks after the birth of
the babe Mr. Horne was called a second time
to go to the Missouri river to meet accompany
of Saints. This was a severe trial, with such
a large family, to be left with all the respon-
sibility of the household and a young babe to
take care of. But Mrs. Horne trusted in the
help of a higher than an earthly power or she
could not have risen above the heavy burdens
she was called upon from time to time to en-
dure. The little Clara was rather a delicate
child and required much care and attention.
In the month of May she was taken very ill
and it seemed beyond the power of human aid
to save her; she was so low at one time that
she ceased to breathe and it was thought she
was dead, but through mighty faith and active
nursing she was restored to life and health.
Again in the fall of the same year the babe,
Clara, had whooping cough which, to all
human appearance, threatened to destroy her
life, yet through careful nursing, faith and ad-
ministration according to the order of the
Gospel she was saved, and is to-day a healthy,
promising young woman, with the highest
possibilities of attainment in view.
 Marriages are always interesting events, and
in large households, where there are several
young people, they are generally merry making
times,—seasons to look back upon with pleas-
ure in years afterwards; so it has been in the
Horne family. The eldest daughter was married
the 15th of April 1862, to Edward M. Webb;
just twenty years ago now. They reside at
the present time in Deseret, Utah, and have
several children. The next rather important
event in the family was the mission of Joseph
Smith Horne to Europe in May 1865. His des-
tination was Switzerland. Mrs. Horne,although
a tender and affectionate mother, rejoiced that
her son was counted worthy to be called to
preach the everlasting Gospel in foreign lands,
and labor in the vineyard of his Lord and
master, and her prayers were fervent in his be-
half that he might fill the mission honorably,
laboring faithfully to convince the honest in
heart. Her prayers were answered. He went
forth in the fear of the Lord, a stranger in a
strange land, without the knowledge of the
language spoken in that country. He first
studied the German language and succeeded so
well,that in a short time he was able to preach
a little, and gradually gained so complete a
knowledge of German that he accomplished a
good work, remaining away three years and a
half. November 10th, 1867, Mrs. Horne’s
second daughter Leonora Taylor was married
to George B. Spencer, son of Elder Orson
Spencer. Ten days after their marriage the
young couple left Salt Lake City to go South
and assist in colonizing on the Muddy,—-a mis-
sion that many of the Latter-day Saints have
reason to remember. It was one of the many
difficult and laborious missions that the Saints
have had to endure in the settlement of the
desolate, barren, desert lands, in Utah. This
wedding tour was entirely different to the
fashionable trips taken nowadays. Indeed it
is scarcely possible for the young people of
Utah to appreciate what the fathers and moth-
ers, grandfathers and grandmothers have done,
and the hardships they have endured to make
these happy homes and surroundings that the
children enjoy at the present time. Mr. and
Mrs. Spencer have had several children and
have five now living. They reside in Paris,
Idaho at present—Mrs. Leonora Spencer gives
promise of being a strong-minded woman, like
her mother; is already very active in all ben-
evolent work, and has decided principles of
her own.
	The 20th of September 1868, Richard S.
Horne was married to Elizabeth Price, and on
the 18th of November of the same year Joseph
who had returned home in August from his
mission was also married; Lydia Ann Weiler,
daughter of Bishop Weiler of the third ward,
Salt Lake City, was the happy young bride.
Soon after their marriage they went to live at
Gunnison, Joseph having been called to pre-
side as Bishop over that place. He was quite
a young man to fill such a responsible position,
but he was in every way worthy the honor, and
manifested by his course the ability and enter-
prise so requisite in the performance of the
duties of a Bishop, and  father of a ward.
Mrs. Horne had then five children married
and all living so far from home that she could
not see them without taking a journey of a few
days, and at that time traveling about the
country was all done with teams.
To be Continued.


