THE UTAH COMMISSION.
 The Commissioners appointed by Pres. Arthur
to fix up affairs in Utah, arrived here on Friday
evening August 18. Several prominent gentle-
men of this city and vicinity went to Ogden to
meet them. They manifested a friendly feeling
towards the people, and everything passed off
pleasantly. On Saturday evening a public re-
ception was given in the Walker Opera House,
under the nuspices of Gov. Murray. A large
number of citizens both gentlemen and ladies
attended, and were introduced to the Commis-
sioners. Gov. Ramsay, Ex. Senator Paddock
Mr. Carlton, Mr. Pettigrew and Mr. Godfrey,
are the gentlemen who form the commission.
They are all from the Western States, but we
venture to say they knew comparatively little of 
Utah and its people, save what the newspapers
give. What course they will take to enforce the
Edmund's law, does not yet appear, but It will
require great wisdom, caution and judgement of
a superior quality to discriminate; and then
again there are so many interpretations of the
law itself by the lawyers, that it would really
seem as though the Edmunds bill was a second
edition of the problem, that it was designed to
explain or to do away with. As a sequel to a novel
often plunges the reader deeper into mystery
than the story itself, so it is likely to be in this
case. There is an old saying "who shall decido
when doctors disagree?” In this instance it
would be appropriate to say “who shall decide
when” congressmen “disagree?” Instead of eluci-
dating clearly to the understanding of interested
parties, Congress adds to the catalogue of unex-
plainable statutes by authorizing the Governor to
make appointments to fill vacancies that have
never existed. This puzzles the Governor and
his aids, and has, so we have been informed,
caused him to grow very serious and contem-
plative. It is an unfortunate dilemma to soy
the least of it, and looks very much as if every-
thing dono to facilitate the enforcement of the
Edmund’s law, only complicated the difficulties
to be encountered or placed another obstacle In
the way to hinder or retard the movement un-
der consideration.
 It appears the Commissioners since arriving
here have made good use of their time, and have
shown a desire to adjust matters according to
the laws and statues of Utah. After deliberat-
ing together for two days, and thoroughly ex-
amining the law in regard to elections, the fol-
lowing resolutions were adopted and furnished
for publication.
“Whereas, it is provided by the revised Stat-
utes of the United States (see. 1862) that every
territory shall have the right to send a delegate
to the house of representatives of the United
States; and as it is further provided (sec. 25)
that such election shall be held in ail the terri-
tories of the United States on the Tuesday after
the first Monday in Novembar 1882, therefore,
Resolved, That in order to prepare for such
election in the territory of Utah on the day so
established, the Commission will proceed forth-
with to appoint registration officers to revise the
lists now on file in the office of the clerk of each
of the several counties in the territory in the
manner required by law.”
This step to hold an election is legitimate and
gives the people some confidence in the fairness
of the proceedings of the commission. The re-
vision of the registration lists will be rather a
delicate matter, but one of great interest, and
will require caution as well as ability. One thing
is certain, that the people of Utah are quick of
perception and not easily deceived,they will soon
understand the true state of affairs, and whether
the law is to be administered in justice and equ-
ity, tempered with that quality, that seasons
Justice, or whether bitterness and prejudice are
a part of the element which controls those who
are to be actively engaged in carrying out the
wishes of the Congress of the United States. It
is the earnest wish of every true Latter-day
Saint that these Commissioners should investi-
gate for themselves, and not depend upon Dame
Rumor, and act as wise dispensers of the law
and as those who love their fellow-men.


[Column 1]
