MISREPRESENTATION.

	"For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but
against princi palities, against powers, against the rulers
of the darkness of this world, against wickedness in
high places."
	"Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with
truth, and having on the breast plate of righteousness."
7th ch. of Ephesians 12 and 14 verses."

"The wounds of a friend (said the preacher)
	Are better than kisses untrue,"
But what of the many who smite us,
	With nought that is kindly in view.

There are mortals so mean and malicious,
	Who exclusively traffic in lies;
And some both inventive and vicious,
	Out of NOTHING can evil devise.

Both inside and outside, "the kingdom,"
	Detractors, their betters decry;
Yet be sure, there is triumph in patience,
	And wisdom knows when to reply.

All kinds of reproach, from all quarters,
	Must "the Saints" as their heritage take;
Must expect to be doubted and slandered,
	"And hated for righteousness sake."

"Our names are cast out" should that try us?
	Nay I for truth, with tradition must clash,
One! higher than even the highest—
	Will bring our redemption to pass.

And oh! to be worthy the favor—
	Of Him! who alone is supreme,
Outweighs the good name, the distinction,
	That many do highly esteem.

Of light! God hath open'd the portals,
	"The ensign! foretold is unfurled;
The truth! is restored unto mortals;
	The Gospel is preach'd to the world.

Though the world e'en reject and disdain it
	Though delusion ! delusion, they cry—
The Saints with their lives must sustain it,
	Must proclaim that God's kingdom is nigh.

The cry, "Lo! the Bridegroom is coming,"
	Must be sounded and heard far and near;
O'er the nations fierce judgments are looming,
	And our skirts of their blood must be clear.

And this to all kindreds and people—
	Of his purpose we testify still,
Whose empire shall widen and flourish,
	Till the universe bows to his will.

Oh! ye Saints, for our hopes of salvation,
	We're called much to do, much to dare;
And the cross of misrepresentation—
	We must patiently, willingly bear.

Account it as nothing, for falsehood
	Is surely the least of the tests,
That "the Prince of perdition" and darkness,
	Applies to the purest and best.

Shall we slight our commission appointed ?
	Shall we shrink from invectives and scorn?
Truth's messengers call'd and anointed,
	Must ne'er be afraid or forlorn,

Consider, how Christ was rejected,
	How his own was against Him array'd
He but spoke as his Father directed,
	And death was the price that He paid.

Consider the base contradictions—
	That the former-day Saints all endur'd
Yet what were their fiercest affictions.
	Compared to the blessings secur'd.

We must needs from integrity borrow—
		Support' and we'll yet have amends—
	[----]e Falsehoods of foes, and worse sorrow,
		[----]al by some we call'd friends.

[Column 2]
Our God is a bountiful giver.
	And to all who endure to be tried -
His "peace shall flow in like a river"
	And blessings shall come with the tide,
			EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
S. L. City.


