DESERET HOSPITAL CONCERT.

	The Concert in the Tabernacle, Thursday
evening August 10, was quite a brilliant affair.
The building was illuminated with eight electric
lights, the effect being most intensely beautiful.
Everything had been arranged in perfect order,
so there was no jar or confusion, and all worked
harmoniously. Pres. Angus M. Cannon offered
prayer, and also made a few remarks to the audi-
ence, expressing a desire that there should be no
loud laughter or boisterous applause, no clapping
of hands or stamping of feet, on account of its
being a place of divine worship. The orchestra
under the management of Prof. C. J. Thomas
played some of their choice music in the best
manner. The children trained by Mr. Evan
Stevens, did their part wonderfully well, their
fresh young voices ringing out full and clear in
rich strains of melody. Bro. Stevens has had
great patience and tact to accomplish so much in
so short a time, and deserves the thanks and
gratitude of the public he is serving so faithfully.
The Tabernacle choir in charge of Prof. Beesley,
rendered their part of the performance excel-
lently well; the selection from the "Messiah"
"He shall feed his flock," was admirably ex-
ecuted. The "Harvest Moon" by the choir was
another charming feature of the entertainment.
The Mendelssohn Club, added greatly to the en-
joyment of the evening, their songs being well
chosen and harmoniously given.
	The songs given by Miss Nellie Druce, Miss
Laura Nebeker and Miss Agnes Olsen, were
highly appreciated; all these young ladies are
talented singers, and great favorites of the peo-
ple. Mr. H. Gardner appeared in a song, which
delighted the audience, and Mr. E. Stevens
sung in character "The Old Maid" or "I'm 95."
He has a wonderful voice and it rang out on the
very highest notes clear as a bell. The song was
a comic one as its title indicates and a little ebul-
lition of enthusiastic appreciation was given, in
as quiet a way as was possible in a crowded
assembly. The Concert being in a place dedi-
cated to sacred worship, no loud applause could
be permitted. The evening's entertainment
closed with a benediction by Elder George
Goddard, one of the executive committee of ar-
rangements.
	The Officers of the Deseret Hospital Associa-
tion desire to return their thanks and gratitude
to all the musicians, singers and children, who so
kindly proffered their services for the benefit of
the Hospital enterprise, and trust they will

[Column 2]
never regret using their time and talent in this
humane direction. Great credit is due to the
musical committee for their assiduity and faith-
fulness in making the performance so creditable
in every respect. And while we desire to be
just to all, we should not forget Mr. Joseph
Daynes, who accompanied the choir on the large
organ and who added to the enjoyment by his
fine organ solo.
	Financially the Concert was not so successful
as some of the committee had anticipated, the
whole of the proceeds only amounting to $848,
70,—expenditures $118,65, leaving $780,05. Of
this cash $598,45 orders $131.60. Included in
this amount was a donation from one of our
brethren of $50,00—who styled himself "a friend
to the enterprise."
	The question is frequently asked by those not
familiar with the work of establishing the Hos-
pital. "Have you many patients in the building
yet?" In order that the public may have some
idea of what is going on in the incipient stages
of the opening, we will publish the report of the
medical board for the month of July, which only
commenced with the 8th. of that month end-
ing with the 31st.

	Medical report of the Deseret Hospital for the
month of July 1882. Paitents received into the
Hospital 7. Died 1. Discharged none. Remain-
ing 6. Out patients prescribed for by the house-
surgeon 3. Operation-ovariotomy. Visits by
the visiting board Dr. S. B. Young 31—Dr. W.
F. Anderson, 5, prescriptions and treatment by
the house surgeon 57 [signed] E. B. Ferguson,
House Surgeon.


