THE PRESENT CRUSADE.

DEAR EDITOR:--If you will allow me a small
space in your paper, I would like to express a
few of my thoughs on the present crusade
against us as a people.
	I joined the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in my native land (England) before
polygamy was heard of, yet, we were persecuted
then, as now, because we believed Joseph Smith
was a prophet, and that he had received revela-
tion from heaven. Our dearest friends turned
against us, and  all were bitter in denouncing
that great delusion. If we should discard poly-
gamy from our faith to morrow they would find
some plea against us.  We said we would go to
America, where we could enjoy liberty of con-
science, and be protected under the broad folds
of the American flag and the liberal Constitution
framed by noble men inspired as we believe by
heaven. Now I feel humiliated and ashamed
for our friends across the water, to read of the
Bills passed by Congress against us.
	Oh! members of Congress and rulers of the
nation, for your own sakes and that of your
families, pause well, and consider ere you as-
sume the grave responsibility of separating
wives from their husbands, and children from
their parents, and breaking up our happy homes
in these peaceful vales.  "Let them cast the
beam from their own eyes," cleanse their own
platter and see who among them is prepared to
cast the first stone.  But it is only here in Utah
that sin and wickedness exists, all they do is
justified.  It is too true, there is much among
ua that is grievous and sinful, but who have we
to thank for introducing temptations and bad
examples to lead our youth, away from the paths
of virtue and temperance? Many have been led
away but the majority have a germ within them
though latent and they would, if called upon,
rise up and defend their religion, and resent the
abuse heaped upon the heads of their aged
parents.
	Are we fearful and discouraged? Not in the
least, persecution does us good; we are rather
used to it.  Former persecutions are not obliter-
ated from our memories, besides, it prevents us
from getting into that deplorable state of neither
hot nor cold, of whom the Lord says He "will
spew them out of his mouth."
	In him we trust, and he will never desert his
faithful people.			E. BENTLY.


