GLORY AND BEAUTY.

	In addition, to the much quoted phrase, that
order is heaven's first law, by a rough glance
at the trees and flowers, we may conclude that
beauty is also much appreciated there, but
when we examine the latter more closely, and
see how delicately and perfectly they are
formed, and beautifully colored, the fact is
forcibly impressed on our minds.
	It may also be corroborated by perusing
God's instructions to Moses, in reference to the
garments of Aaron and his sons, to be worn
while in the Priest's office. The Lord said,
“and thou shalt make holy garments for Aaron,
thy brother, for glory and for beauty. And
thou shalt speak unto all that are wise hearted,
whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom,
that they may make Aaron's garments to con-
secrate him." Following we find what mater-
ials were to be used viz. gold, blue, purple,
scarlet, and fine linen; afterwards how they
should be made, the ephod was to be made of
all the foregoing materials with 'cunning work'
the breast plate of judgment was to be made
with 'cunning work' and the twelve stones that
were set in it, bearing the names of the Twelve
Tribes were precious and beautiful as the
diamond, emerald, sapphire, agate, amethyst,
etc., and they were to be set in gold. The
chain was to be of pure gold, of wreathen
work. Aaron's coat was to be embroidered,
and the girdle of needle-work, while the bonnets
were to be made "for glory and for beauty."
	In the 31st chap. of Exodus we read, "And
the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, 'See I have
called by name Bezaleel the son of Uri, *  *
and I have filled him with the Spirit of God,
in wisdom, and in understanding, and in know-
ledge, and in all manner of workmanship. To
devise cunning works, to work in gold, and in
silver, and in brass. And in cutting of stones,
to set them, and in carving of timber, to work
in all manner of workmanship, * *  * and
in the hearts of all that are wise-hearted I have
put wisdom, that they may make all that I have
commanded thee."
	Thus we see how particular God was to give
the instructions, and qualify men to carry them
out, even to them that were wise-hearted He
gave more wisdom.
	He also gave precise instructions regarding
the Tabernacle the children of Israel built, and
Solomon's Temple. In the age He gave Joseph
Smith directions regarding the Kirtland and
other Temples. The tables containing the ten
commandments were made by God, "and the
writing was the writing of God, graven upon the
tables." From that we must infer that He is
sometimes engaged differently to what the
majority of people believe.  He “planted a
garden” and made coats of skins for Adam and
Eve, and gave the pattern for Noah's ark, thus, 
Parley P. Pratt says, introducing the art of 
ship-building. He also gave many directions
to the Jaredites and the people of Lehi.
	From the foregoing we see, He has been en-
gaged in some of the pursuits in which thous-
ands are employed at the present time.
	Being unchangable He could not deviate
from his admiration of glory and beauty, so,
should not we cultivate in our own, a most
prominent trait of his character and have every
thing connected with his service in accordance
with his will for "Where two or three are
gathered together in my name, there am I in
the midst of them," in short have everything
connected with it executed and arranged "for
glory and for beauty.
