SCENES AND INCIDENTS IN NAUVOO.
		By Helen Mar Whitney.
	"At the next meeting President Joseph Smith
was present and addressed the young gentle-
men and ladies for some time. He expressed
his gratitude to Elder Kimball in the strong-
est terms, for having commenced and carried
on in so masterly a manner the good and
glorious work he had undertaken. He said
it would be the means of doing a great deal
of good, and of benefiting his young friends
more than they were aware of: that the grati-
tude of all good men, and of the young people
whom he had so much benefited, would follow
him through life; and “when gray hairs
should his temples adorn ” he could look back
with pleasure upon the winter of 1843, when
he was engaged in promoting the cause of
benevolence, and preparing his young friends
for the glorious career which awaited them.
He said that he stood before them with more
embarrasment, than he would before kings,
nobles and great men of the earth, for he
knew the crimes of which they were guilty,
and knew precisely how to address them; but
his young friends, before whom he now stood,
were guilty of none of these crimes, and he
hardly knew what to say. He said he had
never in his life seen such a large company of
young people assembled together, pay such
strict attention, listen with such profound
silence and keep such good order as the assem-
bly now before him. He praised their good
conduct, and taught them how to behave in
all places, explained to them their duty, and
advised them to organize themselves into a
society for the relief of the poor. As a com-
mencement to their benevolent efforts, he offered
a petition from an English brother by the
name of Modesly, who was lame, and who
wished them to build him a house that he
might have a home among the saints: he had
gathered together a few materials for this pur-
pose, but was unable to use them; and, relying
upon the active benevolence of the young
people of Nauvoo, he sends in his petition
that you may act upon it as you deem proper.
He advised them to choose a commitee to col-
lect funds for this purpose, and perform this
charitable work as soon as the weather became
suitable. He gave them much good advice,
to guide their conduct through life and pre-
pare them for a glorious eternity.
 “He said he was very much pleased with the
course Elder Kimball had taken, and hoped he
would continue his meetings and that the
young people would follow his teachings. A
meeting was appointed for the young men to
take these things into consideration: but owing
to the appointment not being generally circu-
lated, many young gentlemen were not present.
The meeting was however called to order; Wm.
Cutler was chosen president, and Marcellus L.
Bates clerk, Andrew Cahoon, C. V. Spencer
and Stephen Perry were appointed as a com-
mittee to draft a constitution for the govern-
ment of the society. After hearing several
speeches the meeting adjourned to the evening
of the 28th of March.
“At the next public meeting we were ad-
dressed by Elders Kimball and Roundy, and
as usual, received much good instruction.
Elder Kimball advised us to choose our wisest
young men as officers of the society, and ap-
point a commitee to wait upon the young
ladies, as well as gentlemen, and obtain their
subscription; for, said he, ‘they are as full of
benevolence, and as ready to assist in relieving
fthe poor, as are the young gentlemen.’ He
also advised that no one be excluded from the
society, of whatever sect or denomination he
might be; but give every one an opportunity
of doing all the good in their power. On this
evening the storm was raging tremendously,
and the cold north wind was blowing in a
most searching manner; yet, contrary to the
expectations of every one, the house was al-
most filled, not only with young men and boys,
but with the tender, lovely and beautiful
females of our city. They seemed determined
to brave every extremity of the weather,
rather than be absent from the place where
they received such good instructions.
 This showed the good effects which had al-
ready been produced by these meetings, and
cheered on the spirits of him who had just
commenced them, and had since been their
chief promoter. Instead of the young people
spending their evenings at parties, balls, etc.,
they would now leave all, and attend to their
meetings. Instead of hearing about this party
and that party, this dance and that dance, in
different parts of the city, their name was
scarcely mentioned, and the Young People’s
Meetings became the cheif topic of conversa-
tion.
“Pursuant to adjournment, the young men
convened together on the 21st of March. The
minutes of the last meeting were read and
approved, and the same officers appointed to
preside as on the former evening. The report
of the commitee was then called for, which
was as follows:
Whereas, The young gentlemen and ladies,
citizens of the city of Nauvoo, are desirous of
aiding and ameliorating the condition of the
poor and of carrying out the principles of
charity and benevolence, as taught in the holy
scriptures, thereof be it,
Resolved, That we form ourselves into a so-
ciety to be styled the “Young Gentlemen and
Ladies Relief Society of Nauvoo,” and that
we be governed by the' following articles, to
wit:
	1st. There shall annually be elected by the
society, on the last Tuesday in March, a presi-
dent, vice president, treasurer and secretary.
2nd. It shall be the duty of the president to
preside over all meetings of the society.
3d. It shall be the duty of the vice president
to preside over all meetings in the absence of
the president.
It shall be the duty of the treasurer to re-
ceive all funds of the society, and to keep a
correct record of all the receipts and disburse-
ments, also from whom received, and to whose
benefit appropriated, and make a report of the
same, as often as required by the society.
4th. It shall furthermore be the duty of the
said treasurer, before entering into office, to
give bonds to the amount of one thousand
dollars to the society, for the faithful discharge
of all duties incumbent upon 	him, which shall
be lodged in the hands of the Trustee in Trust.
5th. It shall be the duty of the secretary to
keep a record of all the proceedings of the
society.
	6th. There shall annually be chosen a com-
mittee of vigilance, consisting of five persons,
whose duties it shall be to search out the poor
of our city, and make known to the society the
wants of those whom they, in their judgment,
shall consider most deserving of our assistance.
	7th. The society shall meet on the last
Tuesday in each month, at 6 o'clock P. M.
	8th. A special meeting of the society can be
called by a petition of twelve of the members,
to the secretary, whose duty it shall be to give
notice of the same, by posting up a written
notice in at least three of the most public
places in the city, at least three days previous
to said meeting.
 9th. This constitution shall be lodged in the
hands of the secretary, whose duty it shall be
to present it at each meeting of the society,
and receive the names of all persons wishing
to become members, under thirty years of age,
who can sustain a good moral character, and
who are willing to support this constitution.
10th. Any person being a member of this
society, and being found guilty of any djsor-
derly conduct, or refusing to comply with the
rules of the society, can be expelled at any
regular meeting of the same, by a vote of the
majority of the members present.
1th. In the event of a removal, by death,
or prolonged absence of either of the officers,
it shall be the prerogative of the society to ap-
point another m his stead.
12th. This constitution shall be subject to
an amendment at any regular meeting of.the
society, by the voice of two-thirds of the mem-
bers present.”
“This report was unanimously adopted, and
the meeting then proceeded to choose their
officers. William Walker was chosen presi-
dent, William Cutler, vice president; Lorin
Walker, treasurer, and James M. Monroe,
secretary. Stephen Perry, Marcellus L. Bates,
R. A. Aired, William H. Kimball, and Gar-
ret Ivans were appointed as a commitee of vigi-
lenco. Alter some discussion the meeting ad-
journed until the next Tuesday evening.”
“At the next public meeting, the large and
crowded assembly were addressed at consider-
able length, by Elders Jedediah M. Grant, Brig-
ham Young and Heber C. Kimball. The ad-
dresses were very interesting and highly in-
structive, as the breathless silence and deep at-
tention of the audience attested.
“This is, in short, a history of this society,
which bids fair to be one of the most useful
and benevolent societies in the Union. Through-
out all of the meetings, the profound silence
and the best of order was kept up continually.
If the youth throughout our land would fol-
low this good example and form themselves in-
to such societies, there would be much less sin,
iniquity, misery and degradation among the
young people than there is at the present day;
there would not be as many suffering poor,
neither would there be as much immorality
among the people. But on the contrary,
peace, good order, happiness, cheerfulness and
plenty would reign in the land, the Lord
would look down from his holy habitation and
smile upon us and bless us all.”
I. M. Monroe, Secy.
To be Continued.


