THE FEAR OF THE LORD.
				-----
	Fear of the Lord is a reverential awe for
our Creator.  A veneration issuing from the
heart of every being, who acknowledges his
God. Wisely did one of the prophets remark
“The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wis-
dom.”  Corroborating this statement, we have
only to retrospect on hagiology, and recall the
incontrovertible success of God-fearing men,
from the time of our Savior, until the present.
Knowledge, like a stream, must have a foun-
tain-head.  Have scientists by chance-work dis-
covered the astounding facts we now see de-
veloped, which, giving impetus to advancement,
have brought man to his present standard?
Who could have implanted in the minds of
our world renowned inventors, that indefatig-
able ambition for the accomplishment of some
aim, but a God? With his consent only has
mortal man been permitted to control electric-
ity sufficiently to girt our globe with means of
communication; which is but one of the exist-
ing facts, proving the “march of intellect,”
which Atheists claim is the natural develop-
ment of the mind.
	Overthrowing this selfish theory, and sub-
stantiating the fact that God has, through in-
spiration, endowed men with capabilities, we
need only refer to the Pyramids of Egypt,
bearing astronomical truths, which to-day defy
science deciphering.  God’s ways differ widely
from the narrow, contracted devices of man;
hence the most illiterate, if humble and virtu-
ous, are often chosen as instruments to work
mighty miracles; for proof of this we need not
go beyond the pales of our Church.  Self-con-
ceit is an obstacle, rather than a stimulus, to
advancement!  Dependency upon a Divine
Being must precede all efforts, if success is de-
sired. How fallen would be a community,
from whom the fear of the Lord had been ob-
literated! Selfishness, sensuality, and crime
would  trample, defy, nay—extinguish, all
human laws.  Principle, duty, virtue and
peace would vanish like dew before the sun,
and return in like manner to the God that
gave them.
	Free from the piercing eye of Heaven, and
aided by the mantle of night, the blackest
crimes could be perpetrated, and remain mys-
teries; with no avenger for the unfortunate,
and perfect safety for the diabolical fiend,
whose desires satiated, could gaze with malig-
nant satisfaction on his dead victim, and gloat
in the secret of his fortune with no fear of
being brought to justice, either on this earth,
or at the eternal bar of God.  Reflect, O ye,
who fear not the Lord!  What a deplorable
condition would be yours did ye out-number
the faithful!  Warning take from the fate of
those disregarding their Creator in the days of
Noah; like "chaff" before the wind,” were they
swept off the face of the earth; the righteous
alone remaining to chant the sad requiem over
their fellow-men who, through their disobedi-
ence, received the just dues of an insulted God.
Our heart’s blood chills when we contemplate
his great power!  Man’s miniature wisdom
sinks into insignificancy when compared to
the universal knowledge and workings of
Heaven’s inmates.  Surely God’s omnipotent,
merciful gaze has protected us from infidelity;
for to-day we still find the majority of en-
lightened mankind are Christians, willing to
acknowledge a Superior Ruler, and give Him
the praise for their great achievements.
	Every person has a mission to perform, and if
he is prayerful and honors his Maker, the effects
of that mission will be gratifying to his inner
soul, even if ’tis only to improve self.  Some de-
clare their incompetency to advance one idea;
we wrong ourselves when we utter such a state-
ment; we show ingratitude to God whose likeness
we bear; we make him a partial Being, and com-
plainingly blame any other rather than our-
selves.  Lurking deep in the mind of every
intelligent individual are ideas, germs—which
(if cultivated) would benefit not only the pos-
sessor, but advance others.  The delicate,
modest violet, which in its simplicity chooses
rather the mellowed rays of the sun, and bash-
fully bows its head from the gaze of its com-
panions, when plucked and tastefully arranged
to blend with adjacent colors, adds to the
beauty of the bouquet, as much as the bold,
glaring poppy whose only mission seemingly
is to store up the color rays of “old Sol” and
radiate them regardless of taste. The soft,
velvet-like turf, mantling the bare earth,
assists in the landscape, and does its part to-
wards making the painting grand, beautiful
and picturesque, as much as does the majestic,
towering pine whose nature demands it to rear
its proud head, and rank with the foremost in
the scale of stateliness and beauty. Contrast
seems God’s aim. Why then murmur if our
capabilities appear inferior.  All possess some
special faculty, which is our prerogative to
ameliorate. Cast your mite, let it be ever so
molecular in your mind, God was the sower,
and like the grain of sand, it will count one in
the formation of a strand; or like the dew-drop
it sparkles and forms one crystal on the tender
vine.
					JENNIE HARRIS.
	Beaver.


