SLATERVILLE.

	Dear Editor: The Primary Association of
Slaterville was organized November 15th, 1880.
Bishop John A. Alred, Sisters Jane S. Rich-
ards, Josephine West and several others from
Ogdon were present. Ann Holley was chosen
President, Phebe Singleton and Mary Kasy,
Counselors and Sarah, Stevens Secretary; fifty-
three names enrolled. We hold our meetings
once a week, the children take a great interest
in their meetings. Last winter the measles
made a great deal of sickness among us, and
one of our Primary members, a bright boy of
six years, George E. Knight and his baby
brother died from its effects; and while we
mourn with the bereaved parents, we feel that
death has been here and stolen away a flower
from our midst; but we hope to live so that we
may meet again where death will never part
us from those we love so dearly.
	We held our third conference June 19th.
Bishop John A. Alred and Counselors present.

[Column 2]
E. R. Snow Smith and Zina D. H.
Yonng, Jane S. Richards and several others
were on the stand. The children rendered
their exercises well, and received great credit
for good order and beautiful singing. "Sister
Eliza" speaking in tongues blest them and
Zina D. H. Young gave the interpretation.
It was a day long to be remembered. The
sisters met with the Relief Society in the after-
noon and gave much good instruction, which
I think we shall not forget. The next day,
June 20th, we celebrated the seventy seventh
birthday of our Relief Society President.
There were present about fifty of her children,
grand children, and great grand children and
a number of friends. At 4 o'clock the Primary
children, assembled with musicians to play
the violin; after a recitation and songs an ad-
dress to Sister Field was given in verse, and a
motto presented, bearing these words "No
Cross, No Crown." The children and grown
people then joined in dancing till nearly sun-
down; we then bid her good night in concert,
and left her to the enjoyment of the society of
her family and friends.
	We enclose you the address to President
Field, because it was composed conjointly by
one of our young ladies and one of our Pri-
mary girls. She desires an interest in the
prayers of all faithful saints. We pray for
success to all your endeavors in the advance-
ment of the cause of Zion. The EXPONENT
is ever a welcome visitor with us.
						ANN HOLLEY.
