ARABI PASHA.
It appears, from an account given by an
Arab lady, as related to a Cairene correspond-
ent, that his name is Ahmed el Arabi, the
latter being “an appellative by which he is
known among his fellows because of his descent
from the Arabs in contradistinction to the
Egyptians.” He was educated to the laws, but
longed for more active life.
“He left the mosque of el-Azharand entered
the army of the Khedive of Egypt. At this
time the nation of the Pranks called the Me-
likans were in war against their black tillers
of the soil, who refused to plow and sow and
plant cotton for their Melikan masters; for
which reason, said Husnah, cotton rose great-
ly in price throughout Egypt, and El-Uraby
grew rich by the cotton raised on his estate
near el-Wijh, which he had received from his
father. Uraby was not greatly favored by the
then Khedive of Egypt, Ismael Pasha. He
did not rise above the rank of a major. His
ambition had led him on three different occa-
sions to endeavor to obtain the rank of bey or
colonel. But Khedive Ismael had replied to
the general advocating the cause of Uraby's
promotion, with the words, ‘If I create him a
colonel, he will create a revolt in the regiment
under his command in less than six months.'
“But the foreordained purposes of God could,
not be defeated, not even by a mighty khedive,
Ismael was deposed by our master the sultan
and soon after Tewfik, his son, came to be ruler
of the Egyptian regions; he bestowed upon
Arabi the rank and title of bey. He is now a
soldier and scholar, learned in the arts of war,
and well grounded in the doctrines of our di-
vine faith. He is beloved of the army as a
bold and fearless warrior, and has the good
wishes of the religious body of law doctors,
for they are sure that he will use his worldly
sword for the honor and glory of God, and to
the great good of the Arab Moslem world,
even as is denoted by his name, Ahmad el-
Uraby; that is, I, praise God, I,the descendant
of the true Arab.”—Ex.


When you give to others, give cheerf[----]
There is no blessing from an unwilling offe[---]


