THE CAUSE IN KENTUCKY.

	Mrs. Lizzie D. Fyler, writing of the gains
in Kentucky, says:
	At the close of the convention of the Amer-
ican Woman Suffrage Association, at  Louis-
ville, the first society in Kentucky was formed.
Although but a few months old, it has already
become a power for good, as the following bills
which were before the State Legislature will
show.
	1. A property rights bill, giving married
women the right to own real and personal pro-
perty obtained by descent, gift, purchase, or
her own earnings; and to manage, sell, convey
and dispose of the same, by will or otherwise,
to the extent, and in the manner permitted the
husband in property belonging to him. To
give to the wife the same interest in the lands
of the deceased husband that the husband
now has in the lands of the deceased wife, and
permitting a married woman to sue and make
contracts the same as an unmarried woman.
	2. A bill to confer upon the wife equal right
to her infant children's person and property
with the husband.
	3. A bill to anthorize the employment of
women physicians in the Insane Asylum, and
as members of boards of visitors in all charit-
able and penal institutions where women com-
pose part of their inmates.
	4. A bill granting the right to practice law
in the courts of the State, subject to no other
requirements than men.
	5. A bill requiring that women be paid the
same wages as men for the same work in pub-
lic institutions.
	6. A bill conferring upon women the fran-
chise in presidential and municipal affairs.
	That these bills have been well received, and
the property rights bill adopted, adds another
evidence of the truth of the argument that
however kind may be man's intention toward
woman he can never deal justly by her until
she is allowed a voice in making the laws to
which she must submit.
	No one doubts the chivalry of the gentle-
men of Kentucky, and yet upon their statute
books the old barbaric English laws for women
have remained unmodified, until women con-
verted to the new creed of "universal free-
dom," have in the name of justice demanded
that, as representatives of the nineteenth cen-
tury, they should no longer be bound by a
code of laws, cruel and unjust even in the
[----]ess of the sixteenth century which gave
	While we rejoice over the good accomplished
[----] few months by the brave daughters of
[----]cky, we are led back forty years to a


Believe me to be your sister in the Gospel
of Christ.
				SARAH A. FULLMER.
	Castle Dale Emery Co.	Aug. 9 1882.


