EAST BOUNTIFUL.

	Report of Primary Fair held at East Boun-
tiful, July the 11th, 12th and 13th, under the
direction of Mrs. Ann Dustin, President, with
her assistants. Many things were on exhibition
that were useful and ornamental. One pair of
stockings knit by a little girl nine years old.
Two cushions made of velvet and satin, one of
unraveled yarn. One chemise made by a little
girl twelve years old, one quilt made by a little
girl seven years old; three balls of carpet-rags
sewed by a little girl; two quilts pieced by two
girls, ages eleven and thirteen,and a number of
quilts pieced by others; a number of blocks
pieced by very small girls; a number of pieces
of lace; two petticoats nicely embroidered; one
pair of garters knit by a little girl, and em-
broidered pillowslips; a number of wool mats
and home knit curtains; a fine beaded necklace
made by a girl eleven years old; a very pretty

[Column 3]
case of wax flowers; a home-made basket with
specimens from Soda Springs; a nice bunch of
wool flowers; one beautiful case of wool flowers
in a frame; one case worked on velvet; one box
of wool flowers handsomely made by a little
girl; twenty-five tidies; fifteen mottoes beauti-
fully worked; one worked well by a little girl
six years old; quite a number of cornucopias
and hanging baskets; ornamental match boxes;
pictures framed by little girls; a horse and two
cats cut out of cloth by a little girl; some very
fine bread made and baked by a little girl; one
cake nicely made and ornamented; also bottled
fruit, raspberries aad rhubarb; two maps of the
United States by a girl age fourteen years, and
one of the Western States by a girl eight years
old. The boys' department consisted of two
wheel-barrows, one large and one small; a
medium sized rake; a shovel; plow; a cultiv-
ator and one shovel; one knife and fork; one
rolling pin, and potato masher; one map of
South America drawn and painted by a boy
ten years old; hard words spelled and printed
by a boy eight years old; some vegetables
raised by the little boys, also some fruit. The
house was tastefully decorated with ever-greens
and vases of flowers and smoke-tree.
	Sister Porter, President of Centerville Pri-
mary, and Counselor, with a number of Pri-
mary children, came to visit the FAIR, and
President Hatch with her Counselor and some
of their Primary children came to visit us
and we had a very interesting time.
			ANN DUSTIN, President.
			SARAH DAVIS, Asst. Secretary.


