ART DECORATIVE.

	"About no bit of modern decoration is there
such a glamour of romance as that associated
with the silver-mounted drinking-horn, hung
amid mock shields and battle trophies.  Even
in an ordinary dining-room, in spite of incon-
gruous surroundings, it carries one back to the
rude ages when its graceful prototype, jeweled
and banded with metal, and surrounded by
the mighty weapons of the Norman chief, re-
flected from shining faces the glow and life
of the ruddy, leaping flames of banquet torch-
es.  But to come back to the present, there
seems to be a renaissance of horn decoration.
Not only are the antlers of the moose, the
reindeer and caribou in request; but the long,
beautifully curved and glossy horns of the wild
steers of the far West, South America, Italy
and Spain.  the horns of the last two coun-
tries are very long, finely curved, and, like the
American, exquisite in coloring, showing mot-
tlings and cloudings of sea-green fading to
amber; brown melting into pearly grey, which,
in turn, deepens to vivid black at the extreme
tips.  These horns have, from fineness of tex-
ture, a natural gloss,  which enhanced by art,
becomes fine polish.
	"Mounted in pairs, in some cases with the
polished hoof of the steer, which also shows
lovely coloring between the horns, they make
beautiful decorations to hang over dining-room
enterances or mantels.  They should spring
from panels of bronzed metal, or oak dark in
color; a light, modern flowered wall-paper
would form an incongruous setting for su.ch a
decoration, or for the graceful antlers of the
stag.
 “The American steer horns, for their lesser
length, are more suitable for decorations such
as drinking-horns, tankards, powder-flasks and
flower-holders. These can be purchased in
various sizes, ready polished, tipped and furn-
ished with chains to hang by, and at reason-
able prices.  The horns of our domestic steer,
when fine ones can be selected, are capable of
receiving a fine polish.  These and the horns
of the wild Western and Southern steers are
bought up largely for manufacturing purposes,
but may be obtained by ordering from some
wholesale dealer, taxidermist,  naturalist,  or
from an abattoir.  Steer horns being composed
largely of albumen and gelationous substances,
may be easily softened by heat and twined
into various forms,  therefore easily lend-
ing themselves to decoration. Beautiful
cups and tankards may be made from
horns.”—Art Interchange.


