A VOICE FROM THE MOUNTAINS.
DEAR EDITOR—Having juat read some of
your valuable papers, and thinking perhaps
you would be interested in the welfare of your
sisters in this far-off country; I take the liberty
of addressing a few lines to you: allow me in
the first place to congratulate you on the able
manner in which the paper is conducted.
 I am truly delighted at the progress my
sisters are making in the great work of the last
days, in the defence of righteousness and true
principles upon the earth.  I am living in a
new country, with no Relief Society, or any of
the Associations for the improvement of the
young, yet we enjoy the Spirit of God, and we
feel one with our more favored sisters. We
are blessed with a healthy climate, with the
pure mountain air to strengthen us; we have
for the most part, a good people who are striv-
ing to live their religion; we have a great work
to do, to combat the evil influences from the
outside element, that are seeking to draw away
our young.  We have a Sunday School that is
doing pretty well, but we need a great deal of
good sound teaching, amongst our children,
hence the necessity of organizations among the
sisters to help along the work of our Heavenly
Father, and help establish more fully the order
of the kingdom of heaven in these waste places
of Zion’s land. We read with much interest
the papers, and are led to exclaim Oh, man,
vain man! that undertakes to measure arms
with God” to circumscribe the path of Deity!
“to stamp out” what God has instituted for the
exaltation of the human family, and for the
advancement of the children of men in the
kingdom of God.  I am a plural wife,  have
lived in that order of marriage for 20 years,
have a family of 12 children, all born under
the patriarchal order of marriage, and feel an
interest in the present contest.  Senator
Calkins in his speech in the house says,“Plura
wives must be forsaken, polygamy must yield.”
What! break up such family ties? Scatter such
families broadcast in the land, children that
have been born under the “stars and stripes”
in a free country; born under the only true
marriage law on the earth, proclaim them out-
casts?  No! the Lord will deal with such men
as dare say  these things, we fear them not.
The Lord sent an angel unto Joseph Smith,
commanding him to inaugurate the patriachal
system of marriage, and who dare say “it shall
be stamped out?” The Lord holds the helm,
and He will allow our enemies to go so far, and
no farther;  they are fighting against God.
He will order all things for the good of his
people inasmuch as they keep his command-
ments, and live up to the light of the Gospel,
the Saints need not fear, only for themselves
lest they should stumble, then let the wicked
proceed with their nefarions work; but let us
look well to ourselves, and keep the spirit of
meekness and prayer, that love and kindness,
and long suffering may abide with us.  Let us
seek unto the Lord for strength and wisdom, to
guide us in the ways of truth and righteousness,
let us as a band of sisters help to sustain our
brethren in the noble work of elevating the
human family, until they shall be fit to enter
into the presence of our God.  Let us do our
duty towards our children as mothers in Israel,
teaching them to honor their God, to honor the
priesthood, to honor the principles under which
they were born, and every principle revealed
for the exaltation of the children of men.  We
are living in the last days, when it will not do
for us to “stand still and see the salvation of
the Lord” but we must put forth our might
and influence to combat the power of the ad-
versary, that is seeking to destroy our children.
Then let us lift up our voices and defend our
religion and the principles of righteousness,
“and freedom to worship God according to
the dictates of our own consciences,"


time when the pioneers in woman's emancip-
ation dared to assert their individuality, and
demanded the rightd of human beings. The
church which had so long held woman in bond-
age, arose in her might and denounced the
new movement as the work of the evil one, and
ordered the brave women who saw a vision,
they saw not, back to their household drudgery,
to ignorance and darkness,  "their God-given
sphere."  A power higher than man's had
called them to a great work, and from that
neither threats nor terrors should drive them.
In forty years how has that work progressed!
Instead of the house-hold drudge, ignorant of
the laws of life and health, we have the wise
and thoughtful mother with her babe clothed
and fed with an enlightened regard for health,
and no longer with a blind devotion to
beauty.
 To these forty years of labor the women of
to-day owe the victories which are so surely
hastening on the time when our beloved coun-
try shall become in truth the "land of the free,"
as it has ever been the "home of the brave.'
-- Woman's Journal.


