MISCELLANEOUS.

	Many a rich man makes a poor husband,
and many a poor girl makes the richest wife.--
The Great West.

	Train a child to understand or feel a prin-
ciple and  apply it, not merely to remember 
and obey a rule.--F. B. Perkins.

	"I propose to do all I can for the enlarge-
ment of woman's rights, while I am Governor
of Indiana."--[Governor Porter.

	"Governor St. John, of Kansas, says he hopes
women will soon have the right to vote for
those who are to govern them."

	"I go for all sharing the privileges of the
government who assist in bearing its burdens,
by no means excluding women."--[Abraham 
Lincolon. 

	Mrs. Scott-Siddons is quoted as having said:
"An American servant will tie on her veil in a
natty, graceful way that an English duchess
knows nothing about."

	"A man cannot argue against woman suf-
frage five minutes without repudiating the
principles upon which this government is
founded."--[U. S. Senator Hoar.

	The Quiz, a sprightly weekly published in
Philadelphia, is entirely under the control of
women.   Mrs. Mary Hall it its business mana-
ger and Mrs. Florence O. Duncan editor-in-
chief.

	Governor Baker recently said to the gradu-
ating class of the Indianapolis Female College.
"Young Ladies, prepare yourselves for the
duties of full citizenship because it is in the in-
evitable, whether you desire it or not."--Ex.

	That is not wisdom, it is not piety, it is not
reverence for venerable things, it is stagnation,
it is timidity,  often it it mental indolence,
sometimes it is refines but intense selfishness,
which holds a preacher still in ancient ruts of
ministration, through fear of ministering to
unnatural excitements.  We had better do
some things wrong than to do nothing,--Austin
Phelps.

	The heart will tell its own tale; under some
circumstances the heart will have its own way;
it is useless to tell the heart that no good can
come of this or that--the heart finds good in
unexpected places, and draws honey from
flowers that have not been suspected of bear-
ing honey by any naturalist or herbalist. There
is a time when sorrow becomes sweetness;
such is the mystery and such  graciousness
of life, that loss turns itself into a sort of
gain,—Joseph Parker.
The majority in the House of Lords (132)
who threw out the bill to legalise marriage with
a deceased wife's sister was made up of 8 dukes,
5 marquises, 35 earls, 7 viscounts, 17 bishops
(including the Archbishop of York), and 60
peers who sit as barons.  The minority (128)
included the Prince of Wales, the Duke of
Edinburgh, and the Duke of Albany, 9 dukes,
3 marquises, 29 earls, 8 viscounts, and 76 peers
sitting as barons.  No member of the episcopal
bench supported the bill.  The Archbishop of
Canterbury was among the absentees.  The
dukes who voted for the bill were Hamilton,
Cleveland, Portland, St.  Albans, Sutherland,
Westminster, Roxburghe, Athole, and Leinster,
and the marquises Abergavenny,  Aylesbury,
and Northampton.  The Dukes who opposed
the measure were Buckimgham and Chandos,
Leeds, Marlborough, Norfolk, Northumberland,
Rutland, Buccleuch, and Argyll, and the mar-
quises Bath, Bristol Hertford, Huntly, and
Saltsbury. All the Roman Catholic peers
present declared themselves "not content."


