[Vol18 | May 1931 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Notes From Field]
Notes from the Field Western States Mission: On Janurary 10 and 11, 1931, a most successful branch conference of the Western States Mission was held at Omaha and Council Bluffs.

President and Sister Elias S. Woodruff met with the missionaries and saints of the East Nebraska Branch in the conference sessions, where the time was given over to the consideration of the Relief Society and Sunday School work in the mission.

Bishop David A. Smith and Brother Robert L. Judd of.

The Deseret Sunday School Union Board, and Sister Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary of the Relief Society, were in attendance, to represent their auxiliary organization work, and help interpret it to the local officers.

On Saturday evening, January 10, the Relief Society conference was held in the chapel at Omaha.

Where the accompanying picture was taken of the assembled group.

President Woodruff and Sister Woodruff gave most inspirational instructions, which were followed by interesting reports WESTERN STATES MISSION, EAST NEBRASKA BRANCH from tthe local presidents of tthe Omaha, Lincoln and Council Bluffs Relief Society, after which Sister Lund spoke of the great objectives of Relief Society work and its place in the missions.

On Sunday morning, January 11th, Sunday School conferences and special executive meetings of the Relief Society were 286 held in the Council Bluffs chapel, where much constructive work was discussed, and it was voted at the close of this conference one of great inspiration and assistance in the work.

Australian Mission: MISTER HAZEL B. TINGEY, president of the Australian Mission Relief Society, gives the following interesting report of her mission: 'In traveling through the mission I am happy to report things in a very favorable condition.

We now have six organizations of the Relief Society, and in visiting I find the spirit displayed by the sisters in each organization to be one of love and unity.

It seems that our faith and devotion to the work is being increased day by day, and that we cannot be grateful enough to our Heavenly Father for the many blessings that He has bestowed upon us as a people.

Due to the necessity of so many of our sisters having to earn their own living, also because of the great distance they are from the church, we do not have as many enrolled as we should like.

However, we have changed the plan of meeting in the afternoon, and are now meeting in the evening when the Priesthood is in session.

This.

Plan seems to be far more successful, and will permit many more of the sisters to come, especially as many of them have young children, and these mothers are the ones who derive the greatest amount of benefit from the Relief Society work.. The organization course of study in all its various phases is being handled very successfully in most of our districts.

The sisters are timid in their feelings in reference to their capability of handling the subjects and doing them justice. 'We also find that not as many of our sisters are taking RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the Magazine as we should like, but trust in the near future they will see their way clear to do so, as the Magazine is indispensable in the lesson work.

I trust that this letter finds all well at home, and J pray the blessings of our Heavenly lather may attend all in this great work." North Central States Mission: ROM the North Central States we have the interesting report that the work is going on very splendidly, and that one of the new organizations has among its members about twenty women not members of the Church.

These women come to get the benefit derived from the wonderful lessons and discussions.

They donate to the charity fund, and say that the Relief Society is one of the most pleasant organizations among women they have ever attended.

The winter has been a mild one in this quarter, but the unemployment has made it necessary to do a great deal of charity work.

The Lord has blessed the missionaries with good health, and even though their numbers have decreased, the good work has steadily gone forward.

Portneuf Stake: T= first of the reports on the recent Annual Day celebration to reach the office comes from Portneuf.

The secretary writes: "I am pleased to report that most of the wards in Portneuf stake observed Relief Society Annual Day with appropriate programs of songs, readings and papers on the first organization.

Also a one-act play was presented.

Dancing of old time dances was very much enjoyed by the old people, and delicious refreshments completed a very successful gathering.

In some cases two or more.
