[Vol6 | July 1919 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Reminiscences of Margaret Gay Judd Clawson]
Reminiscences  of  Margaret  Gay 
Judd  Clawson. 
(Continued.) 
Our  next  thrilling  adventure  occurred  one  pleasant  afternoon, 
as  we  were  slowly  jogging  along.  All  at  once  our  whole  train  was 
flying  in  every  direction,  with  lightning  speed,  over  the  plains.  I 
don't  think  the  fastest  horses  could  have  kept  up  with  our  cows. 
Father  sat  in  the  front  of  the  wagon  talking  to  and  whipping  his 
staid  old  oxen  to  keep  them  going  right  along.  He  was  afraid 
the  cows  might  get  mixed  up  with  other  teams  that  were  run- 
ning, or  might  whirl  around  and  tip  the  wagon  o\  er  with  us  all  in 
it.  We  went  over  humps  and  bumps.  Sometimes  our  heads 
would  be  thrown  up  to  the  top  of  the  wagon  bows,  then  we  would 
alight  anywhere  it  happened,  inside  the  wagon.  Nobody  can  ap- 
preciate the  situation  without  the  experience.  Again  death  was 
staring  me  in  the  face  and  again  I  covered  up  my  head.  If  I  had 
to  be  killed  I  didn't  want  to  .  see  the  process.  LVlother  soon 
snatched  the  covering  off  my  head,  and  when  we  came  to  a  stop 
she  gave  me  a  sound  lecture  to  always  be  on  the  lookout  and 
watch  for  the  best  chance  for  escape.  Well,  after  the  cattle  had 
run  as  long  as  they  could,  they  stopped.  There  were  several  ac- 
cidents, and  one  woman  was  killed.  She  was  knocked  down  and 
trampled  to  death.    She  left  a  family  of  children. 
How  we  dreaded  the  stampedes !  There  is  something  dreadful 
in  a  lot  of  panic-stricken  cattle.  Even  human  beings  are  not  re- 
sponsible when  fright  overcomes  reason.  One  cow  in  our  team 
was  very  intelligent,  in  fact,  she  was  so  bright  that  she  used  to 
hide  in  the  willows  to  keep  from  being  yoked  up,  but  when  father 
found  her  and  yoked  her  she  was  a  good  worker  and  a  good  milk- 
er. She  got  very  lame  at  one  time  and  could  scarcely  travel. 
My  parents  were  very  much  worried,  having  already  lost  one  cow. 
They  were  afraid  they  could  not  keep  up  with  the  company,  and 
so  mother  said  she  would  make  a  poultice  and  put  it  on  as  soon  as 
Bossy  laid  down  for  the  night.  Mother  made  a  very  large  plas- 
ter that  covered  all  the  cow's  lame  hip.  Well,  the  next  morning 
when  father  went  to  get  the  cows  up  he  called  out,  "Why  mother, 
you  have  poulticed  the  wrong  hip."  Mother  said,  "Never  mind ; 
it's  all  right,  it  has  gone  clean  through ;"  and  sure  enough,  Bossy 
limped  a  very  little  that  day,  and  was  soon  as  well  as  ever,  t 
know  there  was  a  great  deal  of  faith  mixed  up  with  that  poultice. 
Along  in  the  early  fall,  we  used  to  find  wild  fruit,  such  as

->92  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
choke  cherries,  service  berries,  and  a  little  red  berry  called  buffalo 
or  sqiiaw  berries,  all  of  which  we  enjoyed  very  much.  One  day  I 
decided  to  have  a  reception  that  evening,  so  after  we  camped,  I 
asked  some  of  the  girls  and  boys  to  come  and  spend  the  evening 
at  our  camp  fire  after  their  chores  were  done.  Verbal  invitations 
and  short  notice  never  gave  offense  then.  All  were  delighted  to 
come ;  no  regrets.  In  the  meantime,  I  had  asked  mother  to  let  me 
make  some  buffalo  berry  pies.  Of  course,  she  did.  Pies  were  a 
great  luxury  and  were  seldom  seen  on  the  plains.  I  wanted  to 
surprise  my  guests  with  the  sumptuousness  of  my  refreshment"^ ; 
and  I  did.  Well,  I  had  hardly  got  the  ox  yokes  and  some  other 
things  artistically  arranged  before  my  company  arrived.  Not  so 
fashionably  late  then  as  now.  After  we  had  chatted  awhile  and 
sung  songs  together,  I  excused  myself  to  go  into  the  pantry  (a 
box  under  the  wagon)  and  brought  out  my  pies.  In  passing  the 
pie,  I  rather  apologetically  remarked  that  they  might  not  be  quite 
sweet  enough.  One  gallant  young  man  spoke  up  very  quickly, 
saying.  "Oh,  anything  would  be  sweet  made  by  those  hands."  And 
I  believed  him.  After  serving  the  company,  I  joined  them  with 
my  piece  of  pie.  Well,  with  the  first  mouthful — oh,  my,  how  it  set 
my  teeth  on  edge,  and  tasted  as  if  it  had  been  sweetened  with 
citric  acid !  That  ended  my  pie  making  on  the  plains.  I  often 
wondered  how  my  friends  could  have  eaten  it,  but  etiquette  de- 
manded it.  I  don't  think  there  was  enough  sugar  in  the  camp  to 
have  sweetened  that  pie. 
The  best  of  all  meals  to  me  while  on  our  journey  was  our 
midday  luncheon.  Mother  used  to  make  a  kettle  of  corn  meal 
mush  in  the  morning,  then  she  wrapped  it  up  to  keep  it  warui. 
After  the  milking  was  done,  the  milk  was  put  in  a  tin  churn  and  the 
churn  was  wrapped  tq  keep  it  from  slopping  over.  When  we  camped 
at  noon  to  let  the  cattle  feed,  mother  used  to  bring  out  the  mush 
and  milk.  Why,  it  was  too  good  for  poor  folks.  Sister  Phebe 
never  liked  it ;  she  said  it  always  made  her  so  hungry.  T  never 
heard  any  one  complain  of  a  poor  appetite  while  crossing  the 
plains.  Any  kind  of  food  was  sweet  except  my  pies.  Bread  and 
bacon  was  more  delicious  then  than  plum  pudding  or  pound  cake 
now.    How  environments  change  our  tastes. 
The  greatest  hardship  I  passed  through  on  our  journey  was 
on  the  day  before  we  got  to  Laramie.  The  cattle  were  tired  and 
foot-sore  and  the  traveling  was  very  hard,  so  father  told  us  that 
morning  we  must  all  walk — no  riding  that  day.  I  shall  never 
forget  that  memorable  walk — sand  ankle  deep  to  men  and  women 
and  much  deeper  to  the  cattle  and  wagons.  When  we  camped 
that  night,  we  had  traveled  ten  miles.  I  thought  it  was  a  thou- 
sand, and  wished  many  times  that  day  that  I  was  where  people 
didn't  get  tired. 
At  last  we  came  to  the  end  of  our  long,  tedious  journey,  and

MARGARET  GAY  JUDD  CLAW  SON.  393 
on  the  evening  of  October  15,  1849,  we  camped  at  the  mouth  of 
Emigration  Canyon.  Oh,  what  a  glorious  sight  it  was  to  look 
down  the  Valley  of  the  Great  Salt  Lake ! 
The  next  morning  we  were  up  bright  and  early,  and  soon 
drove  down.  In  the  meantime  Brother  and  Sister  George  String- 
him,  old  friends  and  neighbors  in  Springfield,  who  came  to  the 
Valley  the  year  before,  sent  word  to  my  parents  to  come  co  din-  • 
ner,  and  to  camp  on  their  lot.  Never  was  invitation  more  gladly 
accepted.  Their  little  two-roomed  adobe  house  stood  on  the 
corner  where  the  Kenyon  hotel  now  stands. 
That  dinner — can  I  ever  forget  it — never  before  nor  snice 
have  I  tasted  anything  like  it.  I  remember  everything  we  h.\d 
that  day.  There  was  a  nice,  juicy,  fat  beef  pot-roast,  baked 
squash,  boiled  potatoes,  mashed  turnips  and  boiled  cabbage.  It 
seemed  very  extravagant  to  have  so  many  kinds  of  vegetables, 
but  Sister  Stringham  wanted  to  give  us  a  real  treat,  knowing  that 
we  had  not  eaten  any  kinds  of  vegetables  since  leaving  home. 
They  had  raised  the  vegetables  in  their  own  garden  that  summer. 
Everything  tasted  as  if  it  had  been  sweetened  with  sugar.  It  was 
a  feast  fit  for  the  gods.  I  wonder  how  our  fancy  cooks  now-a- 
(lays  would  like  to  get  a  full  dinner  in  an  open  fire-place  with  wood 
for  fuel  and  very  few  cooking  utensils.  That  was  the  way  we  got 
our  meals  in  those  early  days — no  cook  stoves  then. 
In  a  very  short  time  after  we  got  into  the  Valley,  Bro'cher 
Riley  started  for  the  gold  mines.  There  was  a  large  train  being 
made  up  to  go  to  California.  They  were  going  to  take  the  -.outh- 
ern  route  that  fall,  as  it  was  too  late  to  cross  the  mountains.  Mr. 
Pomroy,  I  think  that  was  his  name,  offered  to  take  men  and  boys 
through  as  teamsters.  Brother  Riley,  with  many  others,  got  the 
gold  fever.  He  coaxed  and  begged  my  parents  to  let  hun  go. 
Mother  very  reluctantly  gave  her  consent.  The  morning  he  left, 
we  were  standing  around  the  camp  fire ;  mother  was  looking  very 
sad.  He  picked  up  a  frying  pan  and  said:  "Mother,  when  I  come 
home,  I  will  bring  this  full  of  gold."  I  wondered  how  mother 
could' be  so  downhearted,  when  he  was  going  to  make  us  all  rich 
so  soon.  Wise  mother !  Poor  boy,  he  little  knew  what  he  would 
have  to  pass  through  before  coming  home. 
It  was  a  very  hard  journey  to  the  coast,  under  the  best  of 
circumstances,  and  in  crossing  the  desert  Riley's  company  had  a 
great  many  animals  die,  and  had  to  leave  many  of  their  wagons 
right  there.  Their  provisions  got  scarce  and  short  rations  and 
walking  were  the  order  of  the  day.  Sometime  before  they  got  over 
the  desert  the  water  gave  out  and  their  thirst  was  terrible.  The 
last  day  on  the  desert  several  men  gave  out  and  could  go  no  far- 
ther, but  Riley,  with  others,  struggled  on,  their  tongues  so  dry, 
and  parched  they  could  hardly  speak. 
At  last  they  came  to  a  stream  of  clear,  running  water.    Some