[Vol6 | July 1919 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Statue of Moses Frontispiece]
©  Underwood  &  Underwood,  N.  Y. 
FAMOUS    STATUE   OF    MOSES,    BY    MICHAEL   ANGELO,    IN    ST.    PETER  S 
CHURCH,  ROME.

THE 
Relief  Society  Magazine 
Vol.  VI.  JULY,  1919.  No.  7. 
Medical  Needs  in  the  Days  of 
Moses  and  Today. 
Mary  Foster  Gibbs. 
The  Latter-day  Saints  are  peculiarly  open-minded  in  their 
attitude  towards  life.  The  cardinal  principle  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  is  faith  in  God  and  his  ever-renewing  revelations. 
Truth  never  changes,  but  because  times  and  circumstances  bring 
new  angles  upon  any  truth  or  principle,  the  gospel  comprehends 
the  living  adjustment  of  truth's  atmosphere  to  suit  men's  minds 
and  conditions. 
Because  of  this  flexible  quality  in  our  spiritual  attitude  we  are 
given  to  extremes  at  times.  If  we  speak  in  terms  of  politics,  we 
are  inclined  to  be  partisan  in  the  extreme.  If  we  consider  educa- 
tion, not  even  the  newest  and  latest  fad  is  sufificiently  advanced  for 
our  quick  apperceptions ;  while  in  all  other  avenues  of  social  and 
spiritual  life,  we  are  ever  on  the  watch-tower,  listening  for  the 
swift  approach  of  events  and  up-do-date  appeals  which  shall  alter 
and  amend  our  fortress  to  admit  the  restless  troops  of  ideas  and 
ideals  that  constitute  our  outer  mental  assailants.  We  are  ex- 
tremely hopeful,  and  were,  in  olden  days,  devout  and  childlike  in 
faith  and  trust.  Philosophers  tell  us  that  such  an  attitude  of  mind 
sometimes  renders  its  possessor  a  fearful  man  and  a  credulous 
one.  Happily  our  faith  is  founded  on  the  Rock  of  Ages,  so  that 
in  common  with  most  of  our  American  citizenry,  we  possess  ad- 
mirable poise  and  our  final  judgment  restores  the  perfect  equi- 
librium. 
Just  now  our  western  communities,  and  indeed  the  world  at 
large,  seem  beset  with  the  clamor  of  medical  appraisement,  and 
the  glamor  of  medical  achievement.  Let  us  consider  wisely  and 
calmly  the  case  of  wives  and  mothers  in  this  Church  and  kingdom 
on  this  subject  of  medical  need  and  medical  aid. 
First,  then,  we  are  confronted  with  the  high  cost  of  medical