Ty Shird Grandma Parr III — Ants Ilene H. Kingsbury ICK the ant bed apart. Scatter the pointed top over the ground. Prod with a stick into the tunnels and the byways of the frantic, scattering multitudes of creatures whose fury and frustration are signaled deep beneath the garden level. Look at the purposeful hurry they have attained as they repair the damage, recover stores of food, and rescue their precious eggs from giant footfalls. We stomp. We brush the scurrying insects from our shoes, and as we see them making headway up our stockings and even onto our hands and arms, we fling ourselves about and dance away from the anthill and wish we hadn't disturbed it. We wonder what is the use of ants, anyway. OO We ran to safety under the shade of Grandma Morgan's back porch and met her coming to meet us. In her hand was a bowl of white flour paste which she stirred vigorously as she hastened toward the ants. She stopped just short of them and then, with a pinch of this rice flour paste, started to make a design on the ground. At first we couldn't see much sense or pattern to what she was doing. Just a lot of dots in measured rows, then continuous swirls and curves to enclose the dots and to create a tracerv of beauty resembling a delicate oriental screen. A fine filigree of rice flour was at our feet. It was as if precious lace had been held above the ground for its shadow to fall as a benediction on the ants. This was too silent and too beautiful for us to endure. At eight one must have an explanation for even the most simple demonstration. We asked Grandma what she was doing, and she said she was feeding the ants. Well, then, why not just spill the rice flour on the ant hill and let it go at that? From what she said that morning, I knew that if I never reached India, that she had brought India to me. Back in her childhood she had been taught to believe that kindness to all living creatures was a duty, the violation of which placed one under most serious penalties. 'Thus, if any of God's creatures needed shelter or food, the way should be opened. In fact, to anticipate the wants of such creations as the ants, was a mark of utter consideration. Therefore, on holidays especially, all Hindu women chose a small area in front of their homes on which to make a banquet for the ants. The designs of rice flour paste were marvels to please the eye. Often they were copies of a design known as the 'Tree of Life, or were replicas of ancient legends carved in oriental woods. In most cases they bespoke the originality of the individual. In the present enlightened world, the custom still stands, but with the good luck charm idea as the interpretation. As Grandma stooped to make her rice picture, we backed up a bit, hands clasped behind us to sort of control us from disturbing her.