April Entertainment. By Morag.

Now that Annual Day is over, it would be a good thing to recruit some new members for the local Relief Societies, and on the fifth Tuesday in April an "Acquaintance meeting" might be held. At the Sunday meetings during the month, a committee might greet all the strangers and hand them an invitation to attend the Acquaintance Social. Each member of the Society failing to bring a stranger or non-member to the meeting should be fined five cents. This feature will induce members to hunt up strangers. A folded sheet of notepaper is handed to each member to be filled with autographs of those present. These may be kept as souvenirs. Have a short, breezy program with demonstrations from the various departments of Relief Society, activities, some music, and some light refreshments. Try this, and see if good will not result from your effort. This same idea might be used as a ward affair and held in the evening. At this party, sealed envelopes might be handed to the guests.

These to contain the following, or similar requests: "See that no one near you is left alone without a word of welcome." "See that all are properly seated." "See that each speaker is properly thanked." "Introduce strangers to bishop and ward officers." "See that the room is well ventilated." "If the room is too warm or too cold, speak to the janitor." "Talk to people who seem timid and lonely." "Dance with the chaperons and wall-flowers." Commence dancing with a Spiral Hand-shake. All present form in one spiral line; this may extend several times around the hall. The bishop may be stationed at the inside end of the line. At a given signal he starts to shake hands all along the line. The one next to him follows, and so on until no one is left in line. When this is over every one present will have shaken hands with every one else, the ice will be broken and all will feel at home. Try this, and see if it is not worth while.

A SEED EXCHANGE SOCIAL. For the rural communities, a seed exchange may prove a good idea for a social. Each guest is to bring a bulb, slip, root, or seeds, each to be done up in a quaint package with full directions for the growing of the contents and the disposal of the harvest. Curiosity will be aroused from this, first as the people try to find what the various packages contain. At a given signal the parcels are exchanged and opened secretly. Then rewrapped and exchanged again. Five minutes may be allowed for each transfer. The seed exchange social should open and close with singing and prayer, and the following hymns from the S. S. Book are suggested: "We are Sowing. Daily Sowing." "What Shall the Harvest be?" "Scatter Seeds of Kindness." Refreshments suggested are: Seed cake (caraway), and buttermilk. The tenth exchange is to be announced as the last one, the package then becomes the property of the one who has just received it. Packages of flower seeds may have the direction, "To be used to decorate the church in August," or, "To be used for the hospital." With vegetable seeds, "To market and give the proceeds to the bishop for ward fund." With a bundle of tomato plants, "Grow, sell, and use for your Church magazine subscriptions." Try this seed social, and see if it does not create a friendly feeling in your community.

Spring music for Relief Society meetings: "The Opening Buds of Springtime," No. 72, S. S. Book. "God is Love," No. 75, S. S. Book. "There is Beauty all Around," No. 46, S. S. Book. "The World is Full of Beauty," No. 123, S. S. Book. "Easter Morning," No. 250, S. S. Book. "Arbor Morning Bright and Fair," No. 129, S. S. Book. "Seeds of Kindness," No. 195, S. S. Book. "Spring," , April, 1915.

SOME APRIL SHOWERS. Here is a Kitchen shower. A merry crowd of young matrons made a shower for one of their girl friends as follows: They made the funniest figure they could think of out of the articles contributed. When all had assembled, the quaint figure was divested of her clothes while the following rhyme was read:

APRIL ENTERTAINMENT. "I am a bride, not bride to be, And that I'm useful you'll agree. Of kitchen utensils I am made, From the ten-cent store, the highest grade. Behold my face, 'tis but a fake, But comes in fine for making cake. My hair you'll think an ugly crop, In fact 'tis only a nice dish mop. Last and not least, my draperies white For drying dishes will prove right; Therefore, as bride I come to you, I'll prove your faithful servant too."

Other showers are, Spoon, Pin, Handkerchief, Basket, Hosiery, Cap, Bag, Pansy, Flower. Another idea for the shower party would be for each guest present to bring a potted plant, (pots of hyacinths, daffodils are cheap at this time). After spending a happy hour with music and floral games the plants could be delivered by the guests to the shut-ins of the neighborhoods or to the hospital wards. Missionary showers should be popular with us when books, handkerchiefs, bags, etc., might be given. For literary people, a Shakespeare evening may be arranged on April 23, which is the natal day of the great bard of Avon. The Easter time brings many social affairs, and lilies, rabbits and eggs are used for decorations.

FOR THE HOME EVENING. The sixth of April is an important date in the history of the world.

Many will be at conference, but for those who desire a program for home evening, the following is suggested: Hymn, "Far, Far Away on Judea's Plains." Reading of Section 20, Doctrine and Covenants. Story of the Birth of Christ (Luke 1, 2, 3). Important events which occurred in April. Coming of Spring Typical of The Resurrection. The Gospel Restored and the Organization of the Church of Christ, Preparatory to the Second Coming of Christ and the Great Resurrection. Hymn, "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." Remember and observe Arbor Day. Plant trees, shrubs and flowers, and don't forget to make one or two bird boxes. The Entertainment Editor will gladly help you with your programs, social affairs, if you will write her enclosing stamped addressed envelope. Address care .