Notes from the Field. 
By the General Secretary, Amy Brown Lyman.

Relief Society Conference. 
The Annual Conference of the Relief Society will be held on Wednesday and Thursday, April 4th and 5th, 1917. Two general sessions will be held in the Assembly Hall, on Wednesday, April 4th, at 10:00 A. M., and 2:00 P. M. All officers and Relief Society workers are invited to be in attendance. Two officers' meetings will be held on Thursday at 10:00 A. M., and 2:00 P. M., in the Auditorium on the fourth floor of the Bishop's Building. The officers' meetings will be limited to stake officers, stake board members, and stake representatives.

Woodruff Stake. 

Boise Stake. 
In a letter from Heber O. Hale, we learn of the reorganization of the Boise stake Relief Society. On account of the failing health of Mrs. Mary A. Rawson, it was deemed advisable to relieve her of her duties as stake president. Mrs. Rawson has labored zealously during the three years that she has held this position, traveling on an average of 5,000 miles a year to visit the numerous branches in this large and scattered stake. From a beginning of 7 societies, she had built up 17 active organizations in the stake. Mrs. Rawson is, at present, in California, where she has gone in the hope of regaining her health. Mrs. Laura J. Adamson, who has been one of the most capable and intelligent stake secretaries in the Relief Society, has been chosen to take the place of Mrs. Rawson.

Following is a complete list of the new stake officers: President, Laura J. Adamson; 1st Counselor, Mrs. E. Pearl Adamson; 2nd Counselor, Mrs. Charlottie B. Smith; Secretary, Jennie Thomas; Asst. Secretary, Mrs. Minnie Rowe; Treasurer, Mrs. Elna L. Stanford; Genealogical Committee, Mrs. Bessie G. Hale and Mrs. Ida Fleming; other Board members, Mrs. Hariette Sparks, Mrs. Mary A. Hellewell, Mrs. Helena Jensen, and Mrs. Matilda Ingebretsen. Bingham Stake. At Idaho Falls, Sunday, February 25th, a reorganization of the stake Relief Society took place. Mrs. Elvira C. Steel was honorably released as president of the Relief Society in this stake, and Mrs. Mamie Harris Laird of Idaho Falls was selected to fill the vacancy. The reports from Bingham stake have acquainted us with the splendid work done by Sister Steele and her officers. They have been always ready and willing to respond to any call that has been made upon the society. During the year of 1915, the Relief Society collected and donated $513.30 for electric light fixtures for the new Latter-day Saint Auditorium at Idaho Falls. Southern States. In the report recently received from the Southern States, we learn that during the year, five new branches have been organized, with the following officers: Catauba, S. C. Mrs. Lucy J. Starnes, President; Lamison, Ala., Lila Sealy, President; Raytown, Miss., Dora Ray, President; Society Hill, N. C., Evalene Wenberg, President; Xenia, Ohio, Lydia A. Schultz, President. The Lamanite sisters in Catauba Indian nation have been organized into a society, and are very diligent in visiting the sick and caring for the poor. In many of the branches, the Relief Society members have raised funds through the sale of quilts and other articles with which they have purchased sacrament sets for the Church. Western States Mission. An interesting letter has come to us from Mrs. Jane W. Herrick, who was recently appointed President of the Relief Society in the Western States Mission. Two societies have lately been organized, one at Trinidad, Colorado, and the other at Omaha, Nebraska. This makes five societies, in all, in this mission, the other three being located at Denver, Pueblo, and Alamosa. Mrs. Herrick has visited all the branches during the last year. From the size of the subscription list sent in, we judge that Colorado members are very much interested in the Magazine. In Memoriam. Provo City, Utah: At the close of the last year Mrs. Joanna Holister Patten of Provo City, Utah, was called to the great beyond. Mrs. Patten was born March 18, 1833, in Caroline, Tompkins Co., N. Y. Her life has been full of interesting experiences as she has been closely identified with the Church since her family settled in Kirtland, Ohio, in 1835. She attended the dedication of the Kirtland Temple as a child with her parents in 1836. In 1842 she removed with her family to Nauvoo where they remained for ten years, witnessing the rapid growth of this city. She was present at the dedication of the Nauvoo Temple in 1846, and in 1852 she came to Utah. Mrs. Patten was personally acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith. She was the mother of ten children. Providence, Utah: In the death of Mrs. Elizabeth Matthews of Providence, Cache Co., Utah, we lose another of the sturdy pioneer women who played such an important part in the development of the great West. Mrs. Matthews was the daughter of a pioneer and was a pioneer herself, crossing the plains as a little girl with the handcart company and suffering with others, untold hardships. She was one of the early settlers of Cache Valley and understood from experience what it means to overcome the barren and stubborn soil of a new country. These hardships born of patience, courage and fortitude developed a strength of character which made Mrs. Matthews a leader among her associates, and because of her perennial smile, her sterling honesty, her unselfish devotion to friends and duty, she was beloved by all with whom she came in contact. Mesa, Arizona: Mrs. Rachel Noble of Mesa, Arizona, died very suddenly on January 20, 1917. She was 63 years of age and was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, where she was married to Benjamin Noble. Thirty-two years ago with her husband she left Utah and was one of the pioneers of Arizona, settling in Mesa where she has resided continuously since that time. She was greatly beloved by all her acquaintances for her many admirable qualities. She was broad-minded and sympathetic and was especially devoted to the charitable and philanthropic work of the Relief Society. Mrs. Noble was the mother of a large family. One of her daughters, Mrs.

Mamie Clark is, at the present time, President of the Mesa Stake Relief Society. Provo: