Frank L. Stanton Goes Home
By Frank C. Steele
Frank L. Stanton, poet laureate of Georgia, has "gone home." He has gone to that eternal home of which in his later life he wrote with such profound intimacy and serenity. He died at his home in Atlanta, after seventy years of full, rich living, forty years of which he was columnist on the Atlanta Constitution, that great newspaper founded by Henry W. Grady, the orator and writer. For years Stanton was associated with another famous Georgian on the staff of the Constitution, Joel Chandler Harris, author of the Uncle Remus stories. The death of the poet removes the last of the distinguished trio?Grady, Harris and Stanton.
A newspaperman with the soul of a poet, Frank L. Stanton's column, "Just From Georgia," added everlasting lustre to the pages of the Constitution. Year after year, Stanton wrote his full measure of "copy" his last column appearing singularly enough on Christmas Day. He lingered on until Jan. 7, when the soul of the sweet singer of the south moved on to another sphere, perchance to write there the songs which in mortality he heard only in his dreams.
Stanton once said: "I have written a few lines that are fairly good, but how far they fall below the vision." To read Stanton's column, day after day, as did the writer during his delightful residence in Atlanta, a few years ago, was to learn to love the man and his poetry as all Georgia loved him. While he wrote of his Dixie home and its splendid, warm-hearted, happy people, his work had that tinge of universality that makes it literature. His poetry flowed from his heart like bars of music possessing a freshness, a cheeriness, a purity that at once stamped him a real poet. There was a fine philosophy of life running through his column that lifted it from the ranks of the ordinary column with its jazz, flippancy and smartness, and placed it among the classics of journalism. "Just From Georgia," a breakfast-time waft of sunshine and hope and faith in the world of mankind, became a perfect picture of the heights a newspaper column may reach when its contents are tinged with sincerity and genius.
Stanton asked nothing from life except an opportunity to give expression to the kindly love that filled his soul. There was no affectation or artificiality about Frank Stanton. He studiously avoided applause, finding his greatest joy in his little cubbyhole in the Constitution office where unseen the author has watched the great poet-journalist at work. He wrote much, his best known poems being "Mighty Lak a Rose" and "Just a Wearyin' For You," two poems he sold for the paltry sum of $300. "Mighty Lak a Rose" he published in copyright form and the first thing he knew it was being sold, set to music by that eminent American composer, Ethelbert Nevin. "A representative of the composer's widow came to see me about it," Stanton explained; "and he was such a nice young man that I accepted his offer of $150 for the words. Then I happened to be needing the money." The song made a fortune for the publishers.
Frank L. Stanton began his literary career as a country editor. He later worked for John Temple Graves on the Rome, Georgia, Tribune. It was during those early days that the future poet quaffed deeply of the soul of the soil and established that intimate connection with the lives of the common people of his beloved Georgia which later made his poetry great. His verse is as sweet and musical and simple as the hearts of the folks he wrote for. He took the little things of life and wove them into imperishable measures. His love of home and family was well known, and he probably reached his greatest heights in his poem, "Marcelle," written when the life of his little daughter, Marcelle, was despaired of. Few poems in literature have finer, nobler heart appeal.
Stanton is at his best in such lines as these:
The world that we're alivin' in
Is mighty hard to beat;
You git a thorn in every rose?
But ain't the roses sweet!
He published three volumes of poems, his last, Little Folks Down South, appearing in 1904. In 1925 Frank L. Stanton was proclaimed poet laureate of Georgia, by Governor Clifford Walker, and while South Carolina, where he was born, and Georgia, where he became one of the south's "Immortals," may justly claim him as their "very own," the whole world has its claim on Frank L. Stanton, for his songs are sung round the world. Northern hearts are touched by the exquisite sweetness of "Mighty Lak a Rose," or his "Lil Feller," touched as deeply as are the hearts of the folks "down South" among whom Stanton moved.
That the poet knew that the end was near is clearly revealed in the following lines found among his papers after his death:
Going Home
Adieu, sweet friends?I have been waiting long
To hear the message that calls me home,
And now it comes like a low, sweet song
Of welcome over the river's foam;
And my heart shall ache and my feet shall roam
No more?no more.
I am going home.
Home! Where no storm?where no tempest raves
In the light of the calm, eternal day;
Where no willows weep over lonely graves
And the tears from our eyelids are kissed away;
And my soul shall sigh and my feet shall roam
No more?no more.
I am going home.