The Poet Has A Birthday Anna B. Hart Member of Relief Society General Board The February-born will find Sincerity and peace of mind, Freedom from passion and from care If they the pearl will wear. —Anon LONGFELLOW, Lowell, and L Lanier chose the birthday month of Washington and Lincoln. God saw that it was fitting to send poets to help ease each troubled era. These three he sent in February. Let us think of these and all poets who can give inspiration to their countries during times of peace and crises. Poets represent our highest thinking; poets inspire us; reveal beauty; give us the messages of worth in a compact form. Poets hold "enshrined in beauty, the tokens of our highest faith." In times that try the souls of men, we need more than material aid, During these periods of crises, men mingle in workshops and armies, yet, they find need for moments of meditation, for time to aspire. Leaders of nations are often nurtured by poetry. No nation was ever "fused into unity without the aid of the arts." A little more than a century ago, when Europe and England were fearing Napoleon, the poet Wordsworth wrote: 'Tis not in battles that from youth we train The Governor who must be wise and good. A brief glimpse should be taken into the lives of our three poets. Now Henry Wadsworth Longfellow made his appearance during the first national period, and helped to awaken our country. It was fitting that Prime Minister Winston Churchill, in one of his greatest messages of hope 'and faith, used a quotation from Longfellow, which was sent to him by the President of the United States:... Sail on, O Ship of State! Sail on, O Union, strong and great! Humanity with all its fears, With all the hopes of future years, Is hanging breathless on thy fate! It is good to pause and review the life of our beloved Longfellow, the only American poet to be honored by having his bust placed in the Poets' Corner of great Westminster Abbey. Our poet was born in Portland, Maine, February 27, 1807, in an old square wooden house upon the edge of the rugged coast. Into a New England of living pines, he came, where interest was eager in staking out the future of a new country. Along with the shaping of New England's political independence, she was also shaping her cultural independence. It is said that Longfellow was the George Washington of this second and "bloodless cultural Revolution in America," this "Golden Age of American Literature." He came rightfully to his place from a line of distinguished ancestors, Revolutionary War heroes, a judge, a presidential elector, passengers Page 85 of the Mayflower—from the very top of the social cream of New England. His education was aristocratic like his birth. At eighteen, he said that the only women he met were "'something to be enshrined and holy—to be gazed at and talked with, and nothing further." He attended balls but never danced except with the older ladies, "to whom the attention might give pleasure." It is not surprising to know that the chair of modern languages at Bowdoin was offered to him upon his graduation, provided he traveled through Europe. He had been reared in a home of books and cultural atmosphere, and had begun to write poetry at an early age. He toured Spain, Italy, and Germany. On his return, a full professorship was offered him. He was only twenty-two at the time. With poetical ardor he asked Miss Potter to become his wife. Now he wanted to help build the soul of American culture, and help to create an American literature for America. More honors came to him. The chair of modern languages at Harvard became his. On his second European journey, which he took to prepare himself for the new honor, he was accompanied by his wife, who was proud to be loved and toasted as the wife of the brilliant young professor. But tragedy came to him one Sunday morning in Rotterdam when his beloved Mary died. He "sealed his unutterable emotion -under a mask of cheerful composure," and plunged into his studies. The years as professor of modern languages at Harvard, the experience of living in the famous Craigie House in the very room that was General Washington's chamber, the hours spent at the ronnd table with his scholars, all were rich to him. He was a favorite with all, young and old alike. "Dressed in his blue frock coat of Parisian cut, his handsome waistcoat, his faultless pantaloons and his primrose kids," he was one of the most charming young men of New England. It is not surprising that he finally selected a charming, intelligent woman to share his home again. For their wedding gift, the young man's father gave them the deed to the famous Craigie House. Life was good again. The desire to write poetry pressed him. Once he said about his college work, "This college work is like a great hand laid on all the strings of my lyre." Finally, he requested his retirement from the faculty, and wore his academic gown for the last time on commencement day. Now he had the time to write. To Longfellow it seemed as natural to build American tales out of her own folklore as to build homes out of her native pine. He was the poet of home, of peace. But again sorrow came to his heart. Mrs. Longfellow was curling her children's hair with an iron heated at a wax candle, when her dress caught fire, and within an instant she was a mass of flames. The following day she died. "I was too happy," Longfellow moaned as he walked through Craigie House from room to room. Later in his life, he wrote in his poem "The Cross of Snow": There is a mountain in the distant west That, sun-defying, in its deep ravines  THE POET HAS A BIRTHDAY 87 JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL SIDNEY LANIER HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW Displays a cross of snow upon its side, Such is the cross I wear upon my breast These eighteen years, through all the changing scenes And seasons, changeless since the day she died. Years passed but he did not lose his power to sing. 'The rendering of Dante's Divine Comedy into English verse gave him great satisfaction. Later when he paid a final visit to Europe, he was received as no other American before him had been teceived. When he called at the palace of Queen Victoria, the servants hid behind the curtains to "catch a glimpse of the venerable man whose face was fringed with silver-white hair and beard." On the fiftieth anniversary of his class at Bowdoin College, he came among his old schoolmates and read them a poem for the occasion in a voice... Failing. He gave a challenge to death: "We who are about to die salute you" —unafraid. Ever since 1839, when he published Voices of the Night containing "Psalm of Life" and other pieces adapted to the spiritual aspirations,. He had been esteemed. "The Village Blacksmith" and "Excelsior" had helped to make him popular in his earlier volumes. From his more critical readers he won favor with such excellent ballads as "The Skeleton in Armor." "Evangeline," in 1847, set the seal upon his popularity. The typically American Courtship of Miles Standish, and Tales of a Wayside Inn show us this gift as a storyteller in verse. He gave us many reflective lyrics such as "The Day is Done" and "The Bridge." His numerous translations, his religious poetry, the sonnets and all, are too numerous to mention. E must proceed with a few observations concerning our other poets. James Russell Lowell was the poet born on February 22, 1819, the birthday of the most distinguished of all Americans. No wonder that he lauded Washington: Broad-minded, higher-souled, there is but one Who was all this and ours, and all men's - Washington. Lowell, also, was descended from long lines of illustrious New Englanders. With Longfellow, he belonged to the first national period— the awakening period of New England. He was born in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in a stately old mansion, one of the finest in the neighborhood. He received his early education in Cambridge and, in 1838, he was graduated from Harvard, where his father, grandfather, and others of the family had graduated before him. After graduation, he studied law and was admitted to the bar. This was not a profitable pursuit for him, however. The writing of verses was more delightful. Charming Maria White became his wife in 1844, and influenced the whole course of his life. Lowell's interests were varied and his capacities abundant. He shared his great gifts with chance acquaintances so freely that one wondered what he saved for more intimate friends. No one could long be with the poet without feeling his fine reserve, and appreciating his humor. No one could long be with the poet without recognizing that "he was in the presence of a character which combined the unflinching earnestness of the Puritan with the mellowness of a man of the great world." It was Lowell who made the harsh and uncouth Yankee dialect into admirable humorous satire of mixed poetry and prose in The Biglow Papers. He wrote many poems and essays on the burning questions of his day, notably the slavery question. Tle was the one great literary critic of his time. He is known for such poems as "The Vision of Sir Launfal", a spiritual experience about which he said, "Maria thinks very highly of it." Some of Lowell's very finest poems have trees for their themes, and he appears to entertain a strong love for the "leafy patriarchs beneath whose branches he had played in his boyhood." Many are his poems of friendship, and of war; poems lauding his Country, poems of humor and satire, and his sonnets. It may be fitting to quote a tribute to Lincoln, from Lowell's "Commemoration Ode": Great captains, with their guns and drums, Disturb our judgment for the hour, But at last silence comes; These are all gone, and standing like a tower, Our children shall behold his fame, The kindly earnest, brave, forseeing man, Sagacious, patient, dreading praise, not blame, New birth of our new soil, the first American. THE last of our group, Sidney Lanier, was born during the second national period, in - Macon, Georgia, February 3, 1842. In contrast to the lives of Longfellow and Lowell, Lanier's short life was a struggle with adverse circumstances —war, poverty, and ill health. We wonder what he might have accomplished with the environment and such opportunities as Longfellow and Lowell had. What he did accomplish, however, shows him "to be of heroic mold, a really great soul." Lanier early discovered his genius for music. He had been graduated from Oglethorpe College and was teaching in that institution before  THE POET HAS A BIRTHDAY the Civil War broke out. While acting as signal officer on a blockaderunner, on the Southern side, he was captured. At the end of the war he was released, returning to Georgia on foot accompanied only by his beloved flute. His sufferings, however, had ruined his health, and he soon became ill with consumption. His life could now only be prolonged and he wanted to make the most of it. He made his reputation as poet and critic in 1877, with a volume of verse, The Science of English Verse. His literary and musical work was done chiefly in Baltimore. There, he played the flute in the Peabody Symphony Concerts, gave lectures before the Johns Hopkins University and gave lectures to private classes. He made visits to the North, and was obliged to travel in the South and West in search of health. In the life of Sidney Lanier, music and poetry were inseparably connected. "An excellent musician, he found the magic of making his verses sing with a sweetness that belongs rather to music than to poetry." He practiced three arts, for his poetry is full of color, and he "puts the painter's eye and the musician's ear at the service of poetry." We feel the singing quality in his "Song of the Chattahoochee": Downward, the voices of Duty call— Downward, to toil and be mixed with the main, Thy dry fields burn, and the mills are to turn, And a myriad flowers mortally yearn, And the lordly main from beyond the plain Calls o'er the hills of Habersham, Calls through the valleys of Hall. In "The Marshes of Glynn" the poet portrays to us a realization of 89 the deep beauty of life and the greatness of God. "The Revenge of Hamish" is one of his exquisite ballads showing the penalty for human tyranny over a fellow being. "The Symphony" and other poems reveal Lanier as a man too large to be the spokesman of any section or time. His poems, such as "Sunrise," one of the highest visions of Lanier, and "Corn," suggest in their stately development the symphony. His fame, however, is confined more and more to a few affectionately remembered short pieces like "Ballad of Trees and the Master." Much he accomplished in less than ten years, a time often interrupted by illness, while he also supported his family. From "The Centennial Meditation of Columbia", a cantata, Sidney Lanier gives a tribute to our dear Land: Long as thine Art shall love true love, Long as thy Science truth shall know, Long as thy Law by law shall grow, Long as thy God is God above, Thy brother every man below, So long, dear Land of all my love Thy name shall shine, thy fame shall glow! Scarcely can we study separately, Lanier the man, the musician or the poet. The last lines of his "Life and Song" express an ideal which he closely approached: His song was only living aloud, His work, a singing with his hand! The birthdays will soon be past, but we have remembered to pause for Longfellow—the "best known and best loved" American poet, he who loved the home and childhood, who loved brotherhood and old-time  love, who could reach hearts at home and in distant lands, and who loved his America. We have glimpsed into the life of Lowell— the poet "with an imagination in which human experience and personal emotion are fused in a high ideal," the companionable man, with a frank and generous nature which could "make its own sunshine," the scholar, the literary critic, the essayist, teacher, diplomat, letter writer, and humorist. We have recalled the life of Lanier, the Southern singer of exquisite lyrics, the musician, the poet who possessed an undefeated brave spirit. Longfellow, Lowell, and Lanier chose this month of famous birthdays! LINCOLN AND THE MORMON QUESTION "ON the 4th of March, 1861, Abraham Lincoln took the oath of office as President of the United States. He was regarded as a friend by the people of Utah, and they much esteemed him. When asked as to the policy he proposed pursuing in relation to the Saints, he replied: 'I propose to let them alone,' illustrating his idea by comparing the Mormon question to a knotty, green hemlock log on a newly cleared frontier farm. The log being too heavy to remove, too knotty to split, and too wet to burn, he proposed, like a wise farmer, to 'plow around it." "—Orson F. Whitney, History of Utah, Vol. II, pp. 23-24. SALT LAKE CITY OBSERVANCE OF THE DEATH OF LINCOLN ' 'UPON the reception of the horrifying intelligence that President Lincoln had been assassinated, throughout the city business was generally suspended, flags were draped in mourning at half mast, stores and other public buildings were closed and craped, the management of the Theater announced that the bill for Saturday evening was postponed to Monday, and deep gloom palpably rested upon the minds of the citizens. On Sunday the stand and organ in the Tabernacle were clad in habiliments of woe, as were also many of the congregation, and Elders W. Woodruff, F. D. Richards and George Q. Cannon delivered feeling and appropriate addresses upon the solemn occasion. Wok ko "At noon on Wednesday, April 19th, the day of President Lincoln's interment, solemn public services were held at the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City.... Fully three thousand people attended the services, the Tabernacle, [the old Tabernacle] the interior of which was suitably hung with black, being filled to overflowing." —Ibid. Pp. 119, 120.