Notes from the Field" is so limited in relation to the number of stakes and missions that it must be reserved for reports on the work of the organization rather than of individuals. Pictures which are submitted for publication can be used only if they are clear and distinct and will make good cuts for reproduction. Pictures must be accompanied by informative narrative accounts of the events or activities to which they pertain. Wards desiring to submit reports for publication in "Notes from the Field"' are requested to send them through their respective stake Relief Societies. It often happens that one or two wards in a stake will send reports on special activities which are being conducted on a stake-wide basis, and in such instances it would be to the advantage of the stake to have the report cover the entire activity in the same issue of the Magazine with all participating wards represented. All narrative material should bear the date of submittal, and all references to certain seasons or special occasions should be identified by the correct dates. Similarly, all pictures should have both date and identification on the reverse. Material submitted for "Notes from the Field" is to be addressed to the General Secretary-Treasurer. SPECIAL RELIEF SOCIETY PROGRAMS IN 1942, the First Presidency designated the evening meeting of Fast Sundays for use by the auxiliary organizations. By subsequent agreement among the auxiliaries, the Relief Society was assigned the Fast Day evenings in March and November. The General Board designated the November meeting as the time for annual ward Relief Society conferences, and the March meeting, coming near the time of the Society's anniversary, for special commemorative programs. The General Board issued a suggestive program for the Page 104 first of these Church-wide Fast Day evenings in March, which in 1943 occurred March 7. This suggestive program, which was used by hundreds of local Relief Societies, was entitled "America, a Christian Nation." Its objective was to show that the cause of freedom is the cause of Christ, and its presentation was in honor of ward members in the armed services, their parents, wives, and children. Also in 1942, the First Presidency designated extra sessions of stake quarterly conferences for the use of auxiliaries, where desired. In both NOTES From THE FIELD the Relief Society Sessions during the third quarter, and the General Board issued suggestive programs. Following are reports on some of the ward programs of March 7, 1943, and stake programs of the third quarter, 1943. Juab Stake (Utah) CHLOE N. BAILEY, Relief So. Ciety president of the Juab Stake, 6? The Program brought People into the Church who hadn't attended for theme teflected the true Spirit of Patriotism, and as a stake Nephi Ward mailed a special invitation to the Patents and yj; Service men and requested a picture Program. A h and blue ribbon with one star Tepresenting each | ards each gtaphed Programs at the door. San Fernando Stake (California) Elsie WEBER  President of the Glendale West Ward, wrote: ?We thank the General Board for the very fine program which was outlined in the Magazine to be used Sunday, March 7, Although Magazines were very late in getting to us, leaving us just a week to prepare the program, we changed our entire program and gave the suggested one which was a very great success. We had a much larger attendance than usual and we received many fine compliments. We hope we may have more programs outlined for us.? Rigby Stake (Idaho) STELLA F. BROSSARD, stake Secretary-treasurer, stated: "We wish to express our appreciation in behalf of the wards for the excellent outline of the program given to us in the Magazine for March 7. Every ward in our stake used the outline and carried out the program successfully.? South Davis Stake (Utah) KATE H. ZESIGER expressed the appreciation of Parents for the Program in the following comments: ?Sunday evening, March 7, 1943, the Relief Society of Bountiful Third Ward put on a splendid program honoring the parents and families of our boys in the service. We parents do appreciate and thank the sponsors of such an idea from the bottom of our hearts, I myself am the mother of an army air cadet and felt the Ptogram was not sad but very inspiring and one which cheers and comforts our hearts and makes us fel proud of our boys in service.? East Central States Mission BELLE C. JENSEN, recently released president of the Relief Societies of this mission, reported April 1, 1943, as follows: "I want to let you know how well the program that was outlined in thefor March 7 was put on by the organizations here in the East Central States Mission. Everyone seemed to think that it was very timely and fitting. We have just returned from visiting some of the branches on the East Coast and every one commented about this meeting. I was fortunate enough to attend the one held here in the Louisville Branch and it was really thrilling. Everything was carried out in a fine, dignified way, and the spirit of the occasion seemed to be present with everyone. We had some fine young servicemen take part on the program. We hope that we will have more outlined services for us. 'The Relief Society organizations seem to enjoy trying to put on something of this kind. ' "Our organizations are doing splendid work, although many are unable to attend on account of the gas situation, for even in organized branches there are members living quite a distance from the churches or halls. I am enclosing a sample of the program and a newspaper clipping from one of the branches." CAST OF PATRIOTIC PAGEANT, "AMERICA, THE LAND OF PROMISE," PRESENTED BY THE SANDY FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, MT. JORDAN STAKE, MARCH 7, 1943 Mt. Jordan Stake (Utah) "THE Sandy First Ward carried out the suggested theme of the March 7 program in honor of the members of this ward in the service of their country, but did so by means of an original patriotic pageant, "America, the Land of Promise," written by Eileen R. Dunyon, social  NOTES FROM THE FIELD science class leader of this ward. The accompanying picture of the cast, and information regarding this pageant, was submitted by Harriet Robinson, president of the Sandy First Ward Relief Society. An attractive printed program listed the eight scenes of the pageant?Landing of the Pilgrims, The Bill of Rights, Recessional, The Sacred Grove, Winter Quarters, The Mormon Battalion, Over Seas, and The American Flag. The secretary, Stella Thompson, who wrote the report, added: "We were assisted wholeheartedly by. Members of the bishopric, Boy Scout organizations, Mutual Improvement Association, and Sunday School. There were approximately three hundred in attendance, a much larger Sunday evening gathering than usual. "It is a pleasure to report that the Relief Society is progressing ?satisfactorily and meeting all requirements in spite of the fact so many members are engaged in war production work." Santaquin-Tintic Stake (Utah) At the request of Vera P. Patten, stake Relief Society president, Counselor Mary E. Allen submitted the following report of the evening Relief Society session held in connection with the stake quarterly conference, Sunday, June 13, 1943: "In our stake the members are quite scattered, and with gasoline rationing we now have quite a transportation problem, so after talking the matter over with the stake presidency it was decided to hold three meetings, and give more members of our stake the opportunity to attend the evening session. 107 "In accordance with this plan, we held a meeting in Eureka, one in Goshen, and another in Santaquin. One member of the stake Relief Society presidency attended each meeting and took charge. We carried out the suggested program which was sent out by the General Board. Stake board members gave the talks suggested in connection with the symposium. We asked the ward workers to assist with the music and the Scripture reading. Each meeting was opened by congregational singing of 'Sweet is the Work.' Ward groups of Singing Mothers furnished special numbers. Each meeting was closed with the singing of 'Now Let Us Rejoice.' "We announced the results of our stake poetry contest in each meeting. The sister who contributed the winning poem was present at the meeting held in Goshen and gave her poem. The winning poem was also read in the other two meetings. We carried these meetings out as nearly alike as possible, and feel that we were able to reach more members with our message than if we had held one central session for the entire stake." Southern States Mission MARY H. WHITAKER, recently released president of Relief Societies of this mission, wrote July 13, 1943, concerning the use in this mission of the program suggested by the General Board for stakes holding Relief Society sessions in connection with stake quarterly conference during the summer: "On the eve of July 3, we enjoyed one of the best Relief Society programs ever to be  - put on at conference time. The Georgia District was given the privilege of rendering the program at the Saturday evening session of conference and they followed the suggested program in Bulletin No. 30. Each sister was well prepared and the singing was lovely. 'The Scriptural reading at the beginning and end of the program seemed to bring the spiritual atmosphere which was sustained during the entire conference. "I might add the program was rendered so well that President Whitaker suggested each district have the privilege of presenting the program on Saturday evening during the following three months."