[Vol2 | September 1915 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial]

EDITORIAL Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto — Charity Never Faileth. THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist
EDITORIAL .   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. II. SEPTEMBER, 1915. Vol. II. SEPTEMBER, 1915. No. 
 The men and women who laid the foundations of the Church in modern times, beginning with the great Prophet Joseph Smith, on down to our present leader, President Joseph F. Smith, ? these and their associates knew the value and historical importance of the work they were doing. They were, and are, makers of history ? and they knew it then, and know it today. The Spirit of the Lord giveth understanding, and individuals who enjoy that Spirit know when great history is in the making. Few events in history will transcend the recent International Congress of Genealogy. President Joseph F. Smith remarked at the evening session of our Utah Genealogical Day, July 27, that the labor now going forward in our temples, and the preparatory work performed by the genealogists were the most important requirements upon the people today. We are justified therefore in saying that the Congress just closed was a most important world-movement. Many of those who took part scarcely realized this; but it will be understood some day by all of our Father's children. EDITORIAL. 421 Just as two cords are doubly strong, and two hundred cords wound together, hold a ship at anchor, so two individual genealogists, and two hundred genealogical associations grouped together, will anchor a great movement of genealogical unification and solidarity, with a scope and interest which can scarcely be estimated by those not gifted with prophetic vision. The results of the work done at the Panama-Pacific Exposition rest "on the knees of the gods." There is a personal note in this recent history which is a life-and-death matter to every one. What shall be your attitude, and mine, to the work projected by the "International Genealogical Federation?" We are weighed in the daily balance, and the results mean progress, life, light, happiness, here and hereafter, to you and to me, or it means the decay and degeneration of hope, faith, and joy. What history shall we, as individuals, make in this movement? The initiative, the courage, and the tact of the California Genealogists won the admiration and gratitude of every intelligent genealogist in the country. Add to that the breadth of sympathy, the whole-souled welcome, and the generous treatment, accorded to every visitor present, including each member of the Utah Genealogical party, and you have a combination which would spell success for any enterprise. Californians spoke of Utah as the father of California; right well has the debt been liquidated in the recent marvelous Exposition, where Utahns have been welcomed and honored as never before in our history. Especially was this true of the Genealogical Congress. No favor that could be shown, no entertainment that could be arranged, no honor that could be given, was withheld from the Utah party, by the Californians. Time and eternity cannot efface our pleasant memories, nor suffice for the expression of our gratitude. May it not be true that the power and influence of the multitudes of departed spirits ? who have rejoiced over this movement far more than can we ? have not these influences conspired to bring about much that has been done? The courteous, gracious, and unprejudiced attitude of the Californians, as of other genealogists there, may owe something to the influence of departed ancestors who there saw a wide swing of their prison doors. History has been making not only in Utah, and not only in California, but also behind the veil, in the shadowy realms of the departed spirits. Blessed are they who give eyesight to blind eyes, who "bring out the prisoners from the prison, and them that sit in darkness out of the prison-house."