[Vol2 | September 1915 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]

Guide Lessons. Lesson I. Work and Business. First Week. Theology and Testimony. Second Week. the passover or sacrament. We who are privileged to partake of the Lord's Supper each Sunday, scarcely attach the importance and sacredness to that mystic ordinance which was felt and observed by the Jews, in partaking of their yearly feast of the Passover, The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper is really the same ordinance as the Passover, modified by the Savior himself, to fit the world's needs after his death. Most of the Christian churches observe this rite but only at rare intervals. Catholics term it Holy Mass; other Christian churches speak of it as Communion. By the Latter-day Saints, who have been privileged by the Lord to partake of this wonderful and mystic sacrament each Sunday, it should be observed in the most sacred, and beautiful manner. The students will find this subject treated upon clearly and fully in the Compendium, under the head of "The Passover or Sacrament:" "This word (passover) comes from the Hebrew verb, pesach, which signifies to pass, to leap, or skip over. They gave the name of Passover to the feast which was established in commemoration of the coming forth out of Egypt, because the night before their departure, the destroying angel, who slew the firstborn of the Egyptians, passed over the Israelites, because they were marked with the blood of the lamb which was killed the evening before; and which for this reason was called the Paschal Lamb." ? Cruden's Concordance. We have an account of the institution of the Passover in the twelfth chapter of Exodus. The Lord commanded Israel, saying, "And the day shall be unto you for a memorial; and ye shall keep it a feast to the Lord throughout your generations; ye shall keep it a feast by an ordinance for ever" (verse 14). This command rather implies that there might be a change in the manner and time of keeping this passover, by the house of Israel. The essential part of it is that it shall be kept as a feast forever. That the Passover, as instituted the evening before the departure of Israel out of Egypt, was typical of the sacrifice of the Lamb of God, appears to be the generally received opinion of all who have faith in the Bible and its institutions. It is evident that the apostle Paul entertained this view of the subject when he made the following assertion, "For even Christ our Passover is sacrificed for us" (I Cor. 5:7). That our Savior considered the ordinance of the Passover a part of the Mosaic law which was to be done away in his sufferings and death, is evident from the wish which he expressed to his disciples, while keeping the Passover with them the evening before his death, "With desire I have desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer" (Luke 22:15). The type was no longer needed and the ordinance was changed to commemorate the great sacrifice he was about to make. Hence, he commanded his disciples to partake of the bread and wine in remembrance of him. QUESTIONS. 1. What is the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper? 2. What was the Jewish Passover? 3. Ask some converted sister to explain the Methodist way of observing this rite. The Catholic. The Episcopalian. Other sects. 4. What is the difference between the Passover and the Sacrament? 5. What is the likeness between the two ceremonies? 6. Who should administer the sacrament? 7. Who should receive it? 8. What should be our attitude towards the Lord's Supper? Genealogy. Third Week, relationship. This subject is somewhat difficult to most people, but it is extremely important to all who would understand how to prepare temple records, and to adjust the ties of relationship properly and accurately. Relationship clues are far more vital than are generally believed, and no record should be left without these ties being well established. We told you in our last lesson that the heir should be the same person, living or dead, because of the necessity of counting relationship from the heir to the dead. Let us make an illustration: You will see that Brigham Young is the heir of the family and that relationship is counted from him back to the other names. He is the son, grandson, nephew or cousin of them, and it is his relationship to the dead that is named, not theirs to him. This is very much clearer and easier than any other way. Let each student take his parents, and then his grandparents, naming himself as heir, for purposes of illustration, and prepare his lesson on this model. Home Ethics and Art. WORK. Work is the heritage of man. It is his mission on the earth ? his everlasting duty. The Lord told Adam that he should earn his bread by the sweat of his brow. "In the sweat of thy face, shalt thou eat bread." One writer, in speaking of work, says: "Whoever prohibits or prevents a man from this, his sacred appointment, to labor, is that man's deadliest enemy, and all men are called upon to do what is in their power towards delivering him from this enemy. If it is his own indolence that prevents or prohibits him, then his own indolence is the enemy from which he must be delivered." Thomas Carlyle says: "All work is noble: Blessed is he that has found his work: let him ask no other blessedness. Two men I honor, and no third. First, the toilworn craftsman, who with earth-made implement laboriously conquers the earth, and makes her man's. A second man I honor, and still more highly: him who is seen toiling for the spiritually indispensable; not daily bread, but the bread of life. These two in all their degrees I honor; all else is chaff and dust, which let the wind blow whither it listeth. We must all toil, or steal (howsoever we name our stealing), which is worse." Every necessity and comfort of life is produced through the effort and labor of some person or persons. There is no article of food or clothing so simple that it can be procured without work. If this necessary labor is not performed by the individual who actually eats the food or wears the clothing, some one else must do the work. Thus, it may be clearly seen, that the greater the number of people who are idle, the greater must necessarily be the labor of those who do work, and the heavier must be the burdens which the workers are compelled to bear. There are only three classes of people that should be exempt from work: the very young, the very old, and those who are ill. Young children are expected to live by the work of their parents. training that is given children, and the experiences through which they pass as they grow up; and other things being equal the child brought up in idleness will be an idler, while he who is brought up to work will be a toiler in the hive of industry. It may be desirable, and even necessary, that the rich boy shall take up a different line of work from that taken up by the poor boy, as each will have his own field of labor, and a different place in the social organism. But every child should be taught to work and to realize that all honest, conscientious labor is honorable. Women should not shirk the responsibility of work, nor the more vital responsibility of teaching their children to work. Olive Schreiner says that the development of the race depends upon the activity of the women. She holds, that every woman should be busy, and should either have an opportunity to work, or make an opportunity to work. The sphere of woman is usually in the home; but the fact that a woman may at any time be compelled to support herself and her children, makes it highly important that she have the ability to earn a living, and that she make the best possible use of acquiring skill in any legitimate line that may be open to her. The acquiring of wealth is not the sole object of industry, nor is it always the result of industry; but poverty is sooner or later the inevitable result of laziness, or the lack of industry. The industrious man may or may not be wealthy, but he is assured of a moderate competence, which he feels and knows is necessary to the fullest development of his powers, and the fullest enjoyment of life. The lazy man, on the other hand, is assured of nothing; and unless he is constantly given money, he must endure poverty. Even if he inherits wealth, he loses it. He is generally too weak to use it wisely, and eventually it goes. One writer says, "He that is able and will not work, let him perish." While there are many people in the world who will not work, there are some who overwork. It is universally admitted "that all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy;" and it must, therefore, be borne in mind that occasional relief from work is as necessary to the fullest life as is work itself. To undertake more than one is able to do is wrong, and the results that come from such a course of overwork are disastrous. Overwork lowers the resistance and impairs the process of nutrition. The man who overworks, gets little enjoyment out of life, and is old before his time. He breaks nature's laws, and must pay the penalty. Let time be used wisely, but let it be regarded as a treasure that is limited. 
 QUESTIONS. 1. Why should all healthy men work? 2. Why is work an opportunity? 3. Explain how a man's own indolence is his enemy. 4. Explain why the benefits of work are two-fold. 5. Give Carlyle's idea of work. 6. How is a community or even the world affected by idle people? 7. When should the work habit be formed in the life of an individual? 8. Why are the children of industrious parents often lazy and incompetent? 9. How is it that the daughter of the hard working mother is often shiftless? 10. Why does the rich man's son often become a poor man? 11. What should be the attitude of women? 12. What is the result of honest, well directed labor? 13. What is the result of idleness? 14. Discuss overwork. REFERENCES. Prov. 19:15; Tim. 5:13; Prov. 6:6-11; 10:4,26; 12:24,27; 13:4; 15:19; 18:9; 19:15, 24; 20:4, 13; 21:25; 22:13; 23:21; 24: 30; 26:13; Eccl. 10:18; Ez. 16:49; I Tim. 4:11; II Tim. 3:10; I Titus 5:13; Heb. 6:12. ART. Mahonri M. Young, Sculptor and Painter. Devotees and their Shrines, pages 84 to 93. (a) Tell of Young's parentage and ancestry. From whom does he inherit art qualities, as well as great intellectuality? (b) Describe "Hon's" gift and indicate the direction in which he has used it. (c) Describe his monument to the gulls on Temple Square. (d) Describe his bronze figures of the Prophet and Patriarch Joseph and Hyrum. They are extremely good portraits of the character of each of the men. Describe the character of each as portrayed by Mr. Young. Suggestion: Assign c and d to some members who are going to the October Conference, and ask them to make a close study of the statuary and monument to give at home in the lesson. (e) Study and describe the artist's wife (Celia Sharp). Does the bust show the artist's affection? (f) Relate the story of the sea-gulls, as related by B. H. Roberts, on page 90 of the art book. (g) Describe: Plowing, (h) Deliverance, (i) Harvesting, (j) Give a character sketch of B. H. Roberts as elaborated in bronze by Young. (k) To what is Young's national fame due? (l) Why did not "Hon" give up when he went so many months without an order, after his return home? What was his first order? (m) What commissions has he filled for the "Mormon" Church? (n) Describe his sculptures at the San Francisco Exposition? (o) Why should the people of Utah be loyal to Hon Young? (p) Has Hon Young been loyal to the people of Utah? In what way has he shown it? (q) If history were told in an inartistic way, it must be soon forgotten. What will result, if history is told in a highly artistic way? The final deduction would be that if we would perpetuate the achievements of our noble ancestors in redeeming a desert, and in establishing commonwealths in the tops of the mountains, we must employ artists, such as Hon Young, to create our statuary and memorials.