[Vol6 | November 1919 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Home | Title: LESSON IV Home Courses EFFICIENT HOUSEHOLD PURCHASING]

LESSON IV. Home Courses. EFFICIENT HOUSEHOLD PURCHASING
======================================================================

LESSON IV. Home Courses. Fourth Week in December. EFFICIENT HOUSEHOLD PURCHASING Rose H. Widtsoe. Every large business has learned through much trouble and considerable loss that the purchasing of its supplies and equipment must be attended to by one who understands the business of buying. A purchasing agent has come to be a necessary part of a business organization. These men and women are trained to know values, are informed on market conditions and are able to buy to the best advantage for their particular firms. Such agents save for their firms thousands of dollars which otherwise might have been wasted in misguided or poorly planned purchasing. As was stated in the previous lesson, women spend nine-tenths of the money earned. If a specially trained purchasing agent is necessary to the success of a business enterprise, how much more necessary a well-trained purchasing agent is for the home. A purchasing agent aims to save money for his firm, but such an agent working for the interests of a home has a much bigger object in mind. She aims not especially to save money but to spend it economically. Since "economy no more means saving money than it means spending money" our household purchasing agent prepares herself to know values, to acquaint herself with the best markets and to plan ahead for her purchasing. The first step in planning the use to be made of the family income is the making of the budget. Definite amounts of the income must be set aside for food, shelter, clothing, operating expenses, incidental expenses, savings, and higher life. These amounts must be known not only for the week or the month but for the whole year. It requires an outlook for the whole year; otherwise, a woman cannot plan purchases ahead, be systematic in her buying, and be enabled to take advantage of the many opportunities for saving which present themselves from season to season. With the increased cost in living the household purchasing agent must be alert. She must plan the expenditure of the income if it be small or moderate so as to furnish the necessaries in food, clothing and furnishings and still have some money left for the needs of her family in education and advancement. Never before in the history of the family has the responsibility of buying rested so heavily upon the woman in the home. She is today almost exclusively a consumer. The housewife of one and two generations ago was in many instances a producer. She made her own soap and candles, she spun, wove, cut and sewed all of her own clothing materials, she produced many of the food stuffs and she preserved and dried fruits and vegetables and meats for winter's use. It might seem on first consideration that by being able to purchase all these articles instead of having to make them that the modern woman is entirely relieved from all responsibility. This is not the case. Some of the time which was previously spent in preparing these things must now be spent in qualifying ourselves to know values. In letting go the work of her own hands while she personally chose and created determining the quality, purity and cleanliness of these articles and materials to be of the highest, she must now personally or in groups, assure herself of equal standards of quality, purity and cleanliness no matter where they are made. She must become trained to buy commercially made products. She must understand the various divisions of the family budget and be qualified to get the very best returns for the money spent. To become a trained consumer and conserver is therefore one of the most important requirements of a mother in the home today. It has been estimated by economists that women buy 96% of all drygoods used by the family; 87% of raw market products; 48.5% of hardware and house furnishings; 48% of drugs; 11.2% of men's clothing. The conclusion is that women alone buy 48.4% of all merchandise and help in selecting 23% more, thus buying practically 71% of all products used in the home. How necessary it is then, if we are to magnify our responsibility, to make a success of our business, to become equipped with knowl- edge concerning food, clothing, housing, furnishings, in order to choose well, to do the most for our families and to avoid pitfalls and fraud in commercially prepared materials. What happens in families where the mother is not trained for this great work? Her family will be deprived of necessaries and comforts that they might otherwise have enjoyed. It is estimated that billions of dollars are wasted annually by careless buying. The husband is compelled to increase his income with no corresponding saving and in many cases, although already overburdened, he must assume the burden of the family purchasing agent. The woman who is not trained to buy in the most efficient manner is frequently responsible for many of the evils in our modern selling methods. For example the abuse of the "charge account," the excessive delivery demands, the "return goods" habit, and the telephone habit, all tend to make the cost of doing business higher than necessary. Every housekeeper may become an efficient household purchasing agent by continuous trying, by experimenting and by study. A consideration of the following topics will be helpful. Efficient Buying. The first principle of efficient buying is to distinguish between price and value and to learn to make all purchases on a basis of value and not on price alone. For example, a lunch box at three dollars and seventy-five cents seems an exorbitant price. Yet the value under certain circumstances may be worth the price. A young growing child is sent to a school a long distance from home. She must leave home very early and consequently has little or no appetite for her breakfast. At noon she is extremely hungry. She goes to this lunch box, takes out a thermos bottle filled with warm soup. The sanitary tin box contained in the leather container is filled with wholesome sandwiches. The child eats this warm soup and sandwiches and feels good all over. All traces of nervousness disappear. She will perhaps carry this same lunch box for years. There is no question as to the value of such a lunch box. There are, however, circumstances when such a purchase would be an act of extravagance. We must measure the returns of our purchases and thus determine whether or not the value to us is worth the price. Prices may fluctuate because of economic conditions, but the value of an article can be fixed only in the consumer's mind. For instance, a bed consisting of good springs, good mattress, light weight, warm, easily laundered, or covered bed coverings and good quality, live feathers for pillows, would be to many people the principal considerations in placing a value on a bed. The bedstead would be a secondary consideration. To other people, and to far too large a percentage, the appearance of a bedstead would be the chief consideration. Yet the comfort one gets out of a good, comfortable bed should be the chief consideration. The quality of an article whether it be food, clothing, or furnishings should be our next guide. To know quality for ourselves and not to have to depend upon the salesman is a necessary qualification for an efficient purchasing agent. This principle applied to our budget would mean first that we must know food values. We must know why it is a good thing not to spend too much of our food budget for meat or sweets or cream. Further we should know the various cuts of meat and their respective food values and the comparative cost. We should know the nutritive value of meats compared with other foods. We should know how to test the freshness of meat. We should know the various substitutes for meat with their comparative prices and know good recipes for cooking these and meat substitutes into palatable attractive dishes. The second division of the food budget, dairy products, is perhaps the most important consideration in the budget. The purchasing agent must know the function of milk and butter in human nutrition. She must know that there is no substitute for milk and butter, that there are supplementary foods that may be used in connection with milk and butter but not as substitutes. She should understand the reason for the government's adopting the slogan, "A quart of milk a day for each growing child." During the past two years the winter has found many families who have taken milk from their tables because the price is so high; yet these same families have not eliminated meat and other expensive foods from their diet. A quart of whole milk contains as much nourishment as a pound of beef steak; and further, milk contains a growth determinant which cannot be secured from any other sources except from the yolk of egg and to a very limited amount from the leafy vegetables. These principles determine the value of milk irrespective of price; and so on through the various divisions of our budget. We must know the value of foods, the return to the family needs and well being. Then an efficient purchasing agent should know the merits of various kinds of distribution methods, as parcel post, mail order, cooperative buying and public market. She should realize the importance of knowing city, state and national laws governing the standards of various articles such as food, clothing and equipment, and also the methods of handling raw and manufactured goods. She will search out the markets that are sanitary and well ordered, avoiding markets where food is exposed to flies and dust. She will learn the standard brands of canned goods and all package goods, the standard weaves of cotton, linen, and woolen materials and the points of judgment in determining household equipment. She will in fact learn the values of everything that comes into the house. The careful home purchasing agent will acquaint herself with legal weights and measures and will check up on these weights in her own kitchen. Every well equipped kitchen will contain a good pair of scales and daily use should be made of them. Another important qualification is to be able to know the various trade labels and the most economical sizes of cans and other containers. In fact to be a good purchasing agent the mother in the home must know her business. If she is to get the best returns for her money she must know values. To accomplish this she must study and profit by her own experience and the experience of others, and be constantly alert in her observations. QUESTIONS. What are the duties of a purchasing agent in a well-regulated business? What can you say of the home purchasing agent? What is the budget system? Describe your own methods of home purchasing. Define economy. What is the difference between economy and miserliness? Why is it important to train to become an efficient household purchasing agent? With what percentage of the world's income do women spend and with what results? Distinguish between the value and the price of an article. Why is it necessary for the household purchasing agent to know food values? What are the standard local weights and measures? What use should be made of scales in the home kitchen? Is there any choice of local markets in regard to quality of goods and methods of handling? What are the advantages of parcel-post, mail-order and cooperative buying and the public market? What can we do to improve the sanitary conditions of our city markets? Do you think it is necessary for women to learn values of textiles?