[Vol47 | May 1960 | Sequence: 23 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Sar Each month I look forward to receiving The Relicf Society Magazine. I always find many interesting articles and pictures in it. In the July (1959) issue is a picture of the Susquehanna River. I find this very interesting as I have made a number of oil paintings of this same river. I am a visiting teacher and I find the lessons very interesting and inspiring. I hope to be a subscriber to the Magazine long enough to have my name mentioned in the Birthday Congratulations—which will be many years from now. —Lola M. Tetzner Waterloo, Iowa For some time I have desired to write and compliment you on our lovely Magazine.

Like my husband, I agree that it is one of the best magazines published. And it has the very best stories. It seems a long time to wait for the continued stories. ""Grandpa's Red Suspenders" (Second Prize Story, February 1960) by Myrtle M.

Dean was so refreshing and contained such wisdom. It could be read in every home where the commandments honor thy father and thy mother should be taught. The poetry is nice and the lessons and editorials are excellent. —Ruth T. Clark Thornton, Idaho We have enjoyed the lovely contest poems and stories this year, especially Mrs. Roberts' "Immigrant's Child" (first prize poem), with its warmth of subject and its timeless style of expression; and Mrs. Robinson's "The Fishbite Story," in which she has so adeptly combined childlike humor with a moving example of faith in action. 'The 1960 covers are giving us some wonderful vicarious journeys. The lithographing is flawless. —Iris W. Schow Brigham City, Utah I surely enjoyed "The Fishbite Story" (third prize story, March 1960) by Dorothy Clapp Robinson. —Marguerite McNamara Iona, Idaho Page 282 I loved '""The Fishbite Story" by Dorothy Clapp Robinson, the third prize story, March 1960.

Even my grandchildren enjoyed it. Her descriptive ability is wonderful, and her stories are so interesting. I am always happy to see her work in the Magazine. —wNina Olsen Iona, Idaho I am very happy and thankful that Mrs. Elizabeth Hogan is sending The Relief Society Magazine to me. JI surely appreciate her kindness. I love to attend Relief Society meetings. We are snowbound — had no meeting tonight (March g, 1960). I live in Nauvoo, Illinois. My dear mother was a friend of Emma Smith, wife of the Prophet Joseph Smith. I am ninetysix years old and have spent many pleasant hours reading the Magazine. 'The story "A Is for Apron" (August, September, and October 1959, by Tene H. Kingsbury) touched my heart.

Many thanks for the good Magazine. —Sophia Harsch Nauvoo, Illinois At the present time I am serving as a missionary in the Finnish Mission, and on a number of occasions have had to speak in various meetings.

Wanting some ideas for subjects, I have turned to The Relief Society Magazine for help, always finding such wonderful ideas. Maxine Kershaw Joensuu, Finland I wish to thank you for the very wonderful, inspiring, and uplifting lessons we receive through Relief Society and our Magazine. I continually marvel at how these lessons, though written for so many, seem to speak to each one of us individually.

Each message seems to be meant just for me! How can we go wrong if we but heed the wisdom to be found in The Relief Society Magazine? —Winnifred Billquist Decr Lodge, Montana