[Vol5 | May 1918 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Home | Title: Testing and Cleaning of Fabrics]

LESSON IV. Home Economics. EouRTH Week in June. TESTING AND CLEANING OF FABRICS. Fabrics made of pure fiber, especially of wool, silk and linen are today very expensive, the reasons are obvious. But manufacturers have attempted to keep the prices the same, in many cases, by sacrificing quality. To avoid deception, it is necessary for the consumer to familiarize himself with genuine goods, in order to detect adulerations. A good method to detect "sizing" : hold materials up to the light; in this way starch, clay, etc., can easily be detected; for heavier materials, brisk rubbing between the hands will remove the starch and clay, and then it will show how loosely the threads are woven. Linen goods are sometimes adulterated in the same way. Cotton fibers are also often added. Sometimes there is an entire substitution of cotton for linen, the glossy and beautiful effects are produced by the cloth being passed between hot rollers. The use of. the microscope is the safe method of detecting a mixture of fibers. Since this is impracticable the following simple tests will be found helpful: To detect cotton in linen fabric, put a drop of olive oil on the cloth. The linen will then be found more transparent than the cotton. Another test is to wet the finger and place it on the under surface of the cloth. If linen, the moisture will be ab- 
 .sorbed quickly. Ai^ain, break the threads; cotton breaks with a tufted fuzzy end, hnen with an uneven, pointed end. Wool is perhaps adulterated more than any other, fabric. To detect cotton in cloth, ravel out a portion of it and light a match to the warp and filling thread. Cotton thread burns quickly and \\il:h a blaze. Wool chars slowly without a flame, and smells like burningfeathers. Another test: put thread in alcohol, the wool will curl while the cotton hangs straight. Besi'des the natural varieties of wool used in textiles, we have a large amount of "shoddy." This is obtained by tearing up all kinds of rags and waste, bringing it back into loose fibers am? spinning it alone or with a certain amount of wool. To make use of the rags, the fibers must be torn apart, they are broken, consequently shorter and less valuable. The burning test of wool is also good for silk. Also the ash of weiohted silk retains the original sha.pe and breaks to pieces at a touch. The art of cleaning and renovating clothing should be learne ' a'ul practiced that the wearing apparel, of all kinds, after injury or partial.decay, might be made new. To remove fruit stains from clothing, etc.. hold the arf'cle so ihat boiiirg water can be poured over it. letting the water fall; should this fail, bleach as for flannels. To remove ink stains, wet spots with milk (sour milk is best) ; this should l)e c^one as soon as possible after stain is made; rub gently and repeat if necessary. If no milk can be obtained, wet with water, rub piece of lemon in salt and then on the stain. A few applications will always remove it. Tar.spots can ])e removed by putting butter upon them and let them stand a few hours, then cleanse with soap and water (Ivory soa]:) is best for all delicate fabrics). Before washing cotton-colored goods, -dip them in a solution of salt ar.d water, then hang them in a shady place to dry. The salt sets the color. To wash flannels so the)- will not shrink or turn yellow, wash i-' two lulre-warm soap suds. Do not hang put in extreme cold weather. To remove mildew from clothing, take common liquid soap and stir in enough salt to make it granular, then rub it on the spot and let it lie out over night, if it is not removed, then wet several times during the day. To remove grease and dirt spots from fabrics of all kinds, put soiled parts on a thick pad to absorb liquid; rub briskly, only from goods to spots, and they will be forced through on the pad. Do not rub spot first or it will run in the goods and cause a ring after it has dried. I::WiiiiililWiiiBwiiiiil ^•^^»««i|i||iai|i^ili||: '■■■■^■ilililli FACTORY PWeE-.-EASIESi TERMS Send No Money— I Pay Freight- ■%r.eS^'- Wherever you live in the Western States 111 send you this world famous Columbia GrafonoU with the true "Tone of Life" that simply can't be imitated, and your choice of records from a list of thousands. Place them in your home and use them exactly as though they were your own, for 5 days. Enjoy them as much as you like — invite the neighbors— hold dances and happy parties. Then if you aren't entirely sure youfwant to keep the outfit, return it at our expense and the trial won't cost you a copper cent. Easiest terms if you do keep it. Send coupon for free hooks COL. JOSEPH J.