[Vol35 | March 1948 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Deone R. Sutherland]

Pankapaw Deone R. Sutherland Y husband, Harvey, after I graduating from _ college, signed a contract to teach school in Pankapaw. "Where is Pankapaw?" I asked him, looking at the map. I have never been able to find anything on a map. "You can never find anything on a map," said Harvey, telling me that which I knew already. "Pankapaw is a very important town in the southern part of this State.
Pankapaw has fifteen hundred people and a very large high school. We shall be an asset to the community and I will learn a great deal about teaching school." "Undoubtedly," I said, feeling convinced.
Harvey can sound very convincing. My brother-in-law loaded his car. "We cannot get anything more in the car or outside of the car," said my brother-in-law.
That is very true, I thought, looking at the bed strapped to the top of the car, the toaster on the fender, the quilts and canned tomato juice in the trunk, my hats squashed against the back window. I went back into my mother's house and conferred with Harvey. My sister said she and her husband would also drive a car down. "Two cars," I exclaimed brightly, "we shall go in style to Pankapaw, like a caravan, like gypsies!"
Harvey does not like me to get ecstatic. He looked sourly at the flapping, crammed cars. "If the engine doesn't boil over into the Page 186 things there some way.
Toaster before we get there—or the bed slide off—or—" My mother handed us a lunch and said that, much as she hated to see us go, we had better go. "Do the cars look too disgraceful?" I whispered to my mother. "J do not want Pankapaw to get a bad impression of us, as if we were sheepherders or gypsies or something." I am a school teacher's wife now and must at all costs appear normal, | reminded myself. My mother frowned at the cars. "Well, no," she replied hesitantly. "After all, you have to get your Reminds me a little, though, of the way your - Great-uncle Alonza used to pack for touring the country. He was a crazy one," my mother reminisced fondly. She is at times very consoling. "Your Uncle Alonza was crazy if a man ever was," my father used to say, pursing his lips at mother, and shaking his head. "Your mother's family—" he would begin hopelessly to us, shrugging his shoulders and then, looking very doleful, he would read the paper again. "The things I could tell you about your father's family—" my mother would always retort. But my father would refuse to be roused from his paper so that we never heard the things my mother could have told us about papa's family if she had only cared to. "I shall trace our route on the map," I said happily. I get very excited when we go on a trip.
Even while holding a box of bath towels PANKAPAW and a waffle iron I can be excited about traveling. "You are going the wrong way on the map," said Harvey to me. "We are going the opposite direction." The towns were too far in between and I could not find the correct highway numbers, so I gave the map to Harvey. It discouraged me, also, to discover that I began getting thirsty in the exact center of the distance between two towns. I thought it could be psychological, so I quit looking at the map.
There were other things to look at, anyway. "Look at all the sagebrush," I said to Harvey. "It will be any time now," said Harvey. "Any time now we should be in Pankapaw." We had been traveling all afternoon, and the sun was sinking out beyond the gray sage and purple mountains. We began to look for Pankapaw. We found Pankapaw. We stopped the car. "Is this Pankapaw?" called my brother-in-law to a man walking along the street. He said it was. We were here, I guessed. "Now where?" We went to the home of the superintendent of schools. He was to take us to our apartment. "He is out seeing to his milch cows, but we expect him home any time now," said his wife. Our two cars with the bed on top pulled up and parked in front of the superintendent's house.
Harvey walked up the street. We didn't look at the cars. The superintendent's wife stared at the cars, and then her three children came out and stared. We waited.
They had an apartment for us. We carried in the things. It was a very small apartment. The bed, when put up, filled the bedroom. We 187 stood out in the hall and talked after we had unloaded the cars. "Won't you stay to dinner?" I said to everyone.
Harvey looked at me. The others answered too quickly.
They had to get started back, it was very late, they were very tired, they had to get started on the long trip back. "Well, here we are," I said profoundly and cheerfully to Harvey.
Harvey was asleep on the bed, surrounded by boxes. I looked out the window. It was dark already. We had been driving all afternoon and were tired. Pankapaw, I murmured, Pankapaw. 'The night was — dark at the window.
There was no answer from Pankapaw. T dawn, from a great distance, I heard Harvey's alarm clock. I turned over.
Harvey was sitting up in bed looking at a sheet of paper. "What is it, Harvey?" I asked. It was just beginning to get light at the window. It was dawn in Pankapaw, cold dawn, and I was tired. "T am reading my instructions for today," answered Harvey. "We, all the teachers, are to go on a field trip.
Weare to look at various grazing areas." He folded his paper and crawled out of bed. "Right now?" I yelled. He turned around. "Unpack while I am gone." The bed was cold and lonely. I stepped over the boxes and went out into the kitchen. I could hear Harvey gargling in the bathroom. Well, anyway, he won't expect any breakfast with this mess about, I thought. I sat on Harvey's old college alligator bag, which was piled on top of the only kitchen chair that I could see. '"Where's breakfast?" demanded 188
Harvey, poking his soapy head out of the bathroom. I decided that there would be no point in suggesting that we eat out. I got down off the alligator bag. Well, I have plenty of things I can do while he is gone today, I thought. The apartment was very quiet. Perhaps I should look first at the town a bit. I stepped over a box of dishes and the juicer toward the door. It would probably cheer me up to step outside where I could no longer see this—this— I gestured _ vaguely at the mounds filling our miniature living room. I came back in half an hour. The town is very pretty, I thought. I liked trees and country roads and there was a courthouse clock that struck the hour.
There was now nothing left to do but unpack. At five o'clock in the afternoon I went down and sat on the front porch to wait for Harvey.
Everything was ready for Harvey. He did not come. The wind rustled the autumn leaves, and Pankapaw was a long way from home, and I had seen the whole town in half an hour. I began to feel uncomfortable. At half past five I went upstairs and thought about packing up again.
After all, we really didn't know too much about Pankapaw. I turned the heat under the food off and then I turned it on again. Perhaps Harvey would not mind if I went home, briefly, to visit my parents, I said to myself, while picking out the burned parts of the potatoes and throwing them in the garbage. I sat down by the living room clock. I began not to like Harvey a great deal. At six o'clock I turned all the burners on the stove off and went down and sat on the front porch again. I could RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948 see the Pankapaw High School across the field. It looked deserted and lonely. A lone leaf hurtled across the lawn, orange in the setting sun. "Harvey," I moaned. A truck stopped in front and let Harvey out.
Somebody hollered, "We didn't keep him too long, Mrs. Thompson, did we?" And then, "Ha! Hal hal" floated out.
From the inside of the truck. Ha, ha, I thought bitterly. "No, no," I called out.
Harvey came up the walk. "Where have you been?" I said to Harvey. "Looking at sagebrush," Harvey said. We went up the stairs. "All day, just looking at sagebrush.
Some of it's fenced in and some of it isn't—" I quit listening to him.
Something was smoking in the kitchen. I must have missed a burner.
Harvey washed and then he ate and then he lay down on the couch and closed his eyes. "Harvey," I said. "Harvey, I unpacked." "Yeah," said Harvey, and he turned over on his side facing the wall. "What good does it do to look at sagebrush, Harvey?" I asked. "Harvey!" "It's all very scientific," said Harvey, still with his back to me. He sounded very tired. "There's a very scientific purpose to the whole thing —I'll tell you about it tomorrow— glub, glub," said Harvey. I went into the bathroom and sat on the edge of the bathtub. I felt very bad. I rested my forehead on the cold water faucet and thought about streetcars and trolley cars and taxis and busses and the lovely dinners we had at home. “Glub,” I choked against the faucet. PANKAPAW Harvey came in and sat by me on the bathtub. He put his arm around me, which made me feel worse. "Glub glub," I moaned into the bathtub. "Do not feel bad," said Harvey. "I will tell you all about the grazing O's of outside of Pankapaw. I will tell you all this scientific stuff, Nitwit."
Harvey can be very kind and affectionate when he wishes to be.
FOR four days at the crack of dawn Harvey's alarm would ring and I would wake up to find Harvey sitting up in bed reading his typewritten instructions for the day. It is very lonely being the wife of a schoolteacher, I thought. Especially since school has not yet even begun.
And then school did begin. I sat on the side of the bathtub watching Harvey tie his tie before the only mirror in our apartment. "Are you nervous?" I said to him. He did not answer. He jerked at his tie. "Do not worry," I said. "Anyway, more than likely none of the students will be larger than you."