[Vol35 | March 1948 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Soup the Heart of the Mills]

Soup—the Heart of the Meal Sara Mills tion in cooking can be reached only when the elementary flavors are lost imperceptibly in the new one, The man who wrote this had soup-making in mind, of that we are sure.
Soup is the heart, the very life beat, of the meal. Indeed, it can, and should be, often, in these days of zooming prices, the meal itself. Too often soup is, ignored, unless st comes in cans. Not that canned soup should ever be spoken of lightly. It is one of the comforts and wonders of our age and should be well-stocked on the pantry shelf. But, now, we speak of soup as if we were first cousin to the French— soup that simmers gently and effortlessly on the kitchen stove. It is delicious to the taste, warming to the blood, and nourishing to the body and soul. To know how to make it is to be a master of one of the finest arts of cooking. For this kind of soup there is no definite recipe. 'The know-how is all important. 'Today, for those who are venturesome, we will try to con dense in a paragraph or so the knowledge we have gained from many pots of simmering soup stock. Ata later day, we will give some cup-by-cup recipes for hearty soups, which can be prepared by anyone who can read. BASIC SOUP STOCK 2 lbs.
Beef shank, cut in pieces 1 veal knuckle 1 cracked beef bone Page 214 water to cover generously herbs, thyme, rosemary, parsley, basil, marjoram, bay leaf, chives, etc. 5-6 peppercorns 2-3 leeks, sliced 1 large onion 2 carrots, sliced 3-4 stalks of celery, and celery leaves, dry or fresh 1-2 whole tomatoes, or tomato juice whole cloves salt and pepper Variations Vegetable soup Tomato-rice soup Tomato soup with pastes Start the soup cooking either the day before, or early on the day it is to be used. For the very best results, you should have a big pottery vessel. A porcelain kettle is next best; after that, a heavy aluminum kettle.
Cover the soup meat and bones well with water. You may add as much water as you wish, but remember, the more water, the weaker the stock. Let the soup stand for one hour, then bring the kettle to a boil. Let the stock boil rapidly for a few minutes until the scum is formed. Now gently and patiently remove all the scum.
After this, give the kettle a handful of salt and a few good shakes of pepper, and let it simmer gently for four or five hours.
About midway in the simmering process, add, the onion, into which the 3 whole cloves have been firmly pressed. Add, also, the carrots, cut lengthwise into about four pieces, the leeks, split lengthwise, the celery, the peppercorns, and the herbs. Seasoning, said a very great cook, should be done with grace, and grace applies particularly to herbs. If you are an herb enthusiast, you will need no advice. If the art is new to you, use only a slight pinch until you become more expert. You may use all the herbs listed above, and more, or only part of them, but use herbs. Tie them in a little bag, if your soup is not to be strained. SOUP THE HEART OF THE MEAL NOW, you have a basic stock with which you can do many things. First, how-ever, remove the excess fat and the vegetables which were meant only for seasoning. You may strain the soup and place it in the refrigerator for later use, or you may use it at once. For vegetable soup, cut your vegetables finely — carrots, potatoes, string beans, celery, turnips, Italian squash, or fresh peas. .
Cook them in the stock just long enough to make them tender.
Near the end of the cooking, add enough tomatoes, solid pack or juice, to suit your taste. You may, also, use a small can of tomato hot sauce. A package of frozen mixed vegetables may be used, or a can of mixed vegetables.
Sometimes you may care to add a cup of finely shredded cabbage about five minutes before the soup is removed from the stove. Tomato-Rice Soup (Serves 6-8) soup stock 2-3 quarts 1 pint of tomatoes (juice or solid), enough to suit taste 1-2 cans of condensed tomato soup 1 cup uncooked rice 1 cup finely diced carrots /4 cup shredded parsley Cook these together until the rice is thoroughly tender.
Serve this soup, which is a hearty one, in colorful soup bowls, along with celery sticks and French bread. Tomato Soup with Pastes To the plain stock, add tomato juice with any number of the soup pastes: alphabet letters, tiny stars, melon-seed pastes, or the tiny shell-like pastes, vermicelli, or spaghetti. Add to this, or any other soup, leftover vegetable juices. If you are still willing to experiment, try making brown stock.
This is done by rendering out the bone marrow and browning the lean meat in it.
Dried lentils, such as split peas, beans, lima beans, and garbanzos (chick-peas) are also good cooked in the stock.
When the soup stock does not seem rich enough, don't be afraid to add bouillon cubes.
Give the kettle plenty of salt and a farewell shake of pepper. CLOUDS Jeanette P. Pany I love a wispy, chiffon cloud Wind-serried, soft, and white. In cobalt blue of sunset's glow That melts into the night. A flame-edged cloud at early dawn, Marking the new day's beam; Even a thunderous black one That hides a rainbow's gleam. PATTERN John M. Freckhton In perfect understanding. Peace, And perfect growth Of love prevail, For giving thoroughly In faith.