[Vol35 | March 1948 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Recompense Thelma]

RECOMPENSE Thelma Ireland The proudest day of my whole life! Mine is the brimming cup. Today I gain my just reward— My radishes are up. 
Windy Hilltop
Ezra J. Poulsen
CHAPTER 2
Synopsis: Anne Raines, influenced by her sister Della, has persuaded her husband Joe to agree to sell their ranch home. Joe, planning to look for work in the city, leaves the ranch, and Anne, worried over the responsibility of looking after the place, feels a premonition of trouble ahead.
IT was noon of the next day and Anne stood in the doorway holding a telegram in her hand. The words seemed to melt and fuse together ". . . Joe seriously injured in automobile accident . . . in hospital . . . will write . . . Della."
A flood of tragic experiences crowded the next few days. Joe's condition continued doubtful. Della rushed back in her car and took Anne and the children to the city, where Anne hovered over her unconscious husband for hours before he even knew her. Then, there were many more hours of anxiety before Joe's condition was considered fairly safe. Even then, he would have to spend months in the hospital.
All this Anne had to face, then choose her course. There was no time for regrets or self-sympathy, and there was no time to think about the future. The present required every waking moment.
Back on the homestead, she went to work, not only milking the cows, and caring for the horses, and caring for her garden. With a fierce and sudden pride, she determined to show Joe she could really take care of things. She hardly noticed the passing of time, except to get the brief messages telling of his condition.
Page 194
Anne was trying to summarize these rapid events and reduce them to some sort of ordered control as she picked the first green peas from the garden. She was canning them—piles of them; and the corn was coming on promisingly, too. Food, for which she had never lacked in her life, suddenly became a matter of great importance. Millions in the world were starving; besides, with Joe unlikely to work for many months, she forgot about her dream home in town, and began planning where they could remain on the farm during the winter while his broken bones continued to mend, if they had plenty of food stored away, and the cows to give them milk.
Even Dick and Betsy were becoming useful under her careful guidance.
"Momie, I got this row of carrots weeded," cried Dick from the bottom of the garden.
"Thanks, Darling, now you can rest awhile."
"But I don't want to rest. I want to help raise food for the hungry people."
Though she recognized in these words an immediate fulfillment of her own teaching, she was struck with their childish sincerity. Mopping the perspiration from her face, she struggled with a choking feeling in her throat, and a swift vision of little Dickie going off to war some day tortured her.
"What did you say, Momie?" "Nothing, Darling, but you can weed a little more if you want to."
At that moment, Betsy came down from the house with jam from her breakfast still on her cheeks. "Momie, I will pick some weeds," she volunteered, her round face serious, and her blue eyes sparkling.
"Thanks, Honey. I'm afraid you'll pick the wrong weeds. How would you like to help mother gather peas?"
"Fine!" Betsy lost no time getting busy.
A little later, she heard Dick talking angrily, and throwing stones as hard as he could, whereupon she discovered he was after a squirrel he had caught invading the garden.
"Momie, come here," he finally called urgently. "The squirrels are eating our cabbages and cauliflowers. Oh, look, they've ruined them!"
ANNE hurried to the bottom of the garden. A sudden instinctive dread clutched at her heart. So the squirrels were beginning to get bad. She locked back at the wheat, now springing green on the sidehill, after which she inspected the havoc wrought among her cabbages, and began to experience a tragic fear such as she imagined people felt in the presence of an invading army. She met the fiery gaze in her son's eyes, and a shadow crept into her own.
"We'll have to fight them, that's all. Get some traps from the granary. I wonder if they've started to bother the wheat. We'll have to set out some poison." Anne took off her straw hat and fanned her warm face, then straightened her shoulders. She had a little war all of her own.
A car came up the road, holding her somewhat spellbound in an effort to see who was arriving. But she failed to recognize the driver until the car stopped in the yard a few feet from her. Then, a tall angular man, with a weatherbeaten face and a hooked nose, got out and came toward her. She recognized Sam Hadfield.
"Howdy, Mrs. Raines," he greeted stiffly. "Seems as if you're havin' a pretty tough time of it this summer."
"Oh, yes, but I can manage all right," she replied weakly. She had never liked Hadfield, and now, his sudden appearance seemed to be an ill omen. "I—I find the squirrels are bothering my garden a little."
"Well, Mrs. Raines, there's no use of a city woman like you monkeying with a garden, or anything else out in this wilderness. Nothin'll grow in these hills, anyway, except a little bunch grass and enough cattle and sheep to eat it up." He came uncomfortably close; his small, deep-set eyes searched hers.
Anne experienced a feeling of helplessness. "I can manage," she declared.
Hadfield lingered, wavering between embarrassment and an unspoken purpose. Finally he spoke—gruffly. "I think you'd better pack up and go to the city, where you can take care of Joe. I can take everything over now. I made Joe promise to stay till fall. But now, he's hurt. I want to help all I can."
"I—I—couldn't leave now," Anne stammered, realizing for the first time the stark reality of letting someone else take possession. A scowl flitted across Hadfield's face. "Maybe, Joe didn't tell you everything. You see I’ve bought the place. I argued Joe into stayin' awhile." He grinned impressive and would have taken hold of her arm had she not moved. "Of course, I ain't puttin' you off— not yet," he assured in a tone suggesting irritation and a mild threat. "I thought you'd be anxious to go." "We are staying," Anne replied artlessly. Her tone seemed to convey the impression she failed to get the full impact of his meaning, rather than that she was defying him, yet the effect was equally conclusive. "Er, er, well, I'll be going," he said lamely. "But I'll see you later. How's Joe gettin' along the last you heard?" "Very well, thanks. But his legs are both broken, so it'll be a long while before he'll be able to do anything." Still, Hadfield was loath to go. He lingered, trying to flatter her with rude compliments, and veiled hints concerning the uselessness of her efforts.
When he did finally leave, the sun seemed scorching hot, though it was only half way to noon, and the moisture on her face evaporated, leaving her cheeks dry and hot, as she stared at his car until it reached the county road.
Dickie called her as he came down from the granary with some traps, and little Betsy sidled up to her. "What's the matter, Momie?" she RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948 inquired seeing tears in her mother's eyes.
Anne seemed to find no words to answer. A hawk sailed through the clear blue, casting its racing shadow along the edge of the yard, and suddenly reminding her of danger to her small chickens and hens. "Dick! Betsy!" she suddenly urged. "Let's chase that hawk away. It might kill some of our chickens." She ran up the path, with the children following. Then, with determined efficiency, she crowded the chicks, which their frightened mothers had already gathered to the best of her ability, in their pens, where she knew they would be safe. Then, suddenly giving way to her feelings, she took the children in her arms and opened the floodgate of her tears. Vaguely, she sensed an approaching crisis with Hadfield, who seemed to believe he had a title to the farm, and suddenly, she realized she had no desire to sell the homestead— ever! D ELLA wrote at the end of the week, demanding that Anne pre-pare to come home at once. "Get somebody— anybody— to look after the crop.
That forsaken place is not for a woman to run single-hand-ed," wrote her practical, sympathetic sister. In a way, Anne was hungry to accept the invitation. She wanted so much to be near Joe. She made several attempts to answer the letter, but she tore them up, in the end merely writing a brief note, signifying her determination to stay and take care of the farm.
This course seemed right, and that was all that mattered. Joe was still unable to write, but he sent word to let Hadfield take over. "I can't let you stay there any longer, Honey," he wrote.
But Anne wrote back: "Don't worry about me, Darling. Your job is to get better. I'm doing wonderfully well. You see I can say that since there's no one else here to say it for me. I'm actually learning to like it, and both Dickie and Betsy are becoming real farmers."
She smiled when she mailed the letter, and was still thinking about it that evening as she went up to the hilltop to let the breeze cool her cheeks, while she watched the sun set at the close of what seemed an endless day. It seemed as if Joe was beside her; she could hear his voice as if had sounded the evening she had seen him give up his last effort to cling to the homestead.
Had she been right? Yes, she reflected. We simply can't spend our lives here, entirely. Yet, as she looked out into the fathomless gloaming, she knew now she loved every inch of the rough acres they had toiled to subdue, and the thought of turning them over to an unsympathetic stranger was equally heartbreaking. Why do decisions have to be so far-reaching? Why can't life offer more compromises? she cried in anguish.
A mourning dove cooed in a distant hollow; she turned and walked down the dusty trail toward the house.
Della finally drove out to the farm. She was amazed to find her sister milking the cows, and little Dick tugging at the pump handle to get some water for the horses. Even Betsy was doing her bit by carrying some of the water to the chickens in a small bucket. Della was even more amazed when she saw the turn the cream separator, feed the calves and the pigs, and the horses. She scolded her, and made some real attempts to help, but in neither case was she very successful. She concluded somewhat helplessly, that the most surprising thing was Anne's sturdy independence. She seemed to mind the farm less with its backbreaking cares than she had previously done with Joe at home to carry the heaviest part of the work.
But Della was good at argument. "You can't stay here another day. I'm going to take you home with me," she insisted.
"I'm going to stay all summer, and as much longer as necessary to take care of the crops," retorted Anne.
"Listen here, Girlie, what do you think you are, a regiment of infantry? The hay will have to be cut. Can you cut it? No. The cattle will have to be kept out of the grain. Can you do it? Of course not. And please don't tell me you're going to do the heading and threshing." Della ended her recital of difficulties with a devastating truth.
"Well, anyway, let's go up to the house and get some supper," replied Anne mildly, as she completed her chores. "I think I can still cook."
She felt incapable of winning an argument with her strong-willed sister; but something inside her—something very stubborn and defiant—gave her a feeling of triumph she couldn't express. She had come to think of the farm as a trust left with her. She had grown, also, to feel proud of her gardening, and her shining. She had to admit she some of the large, responsibilities were still in the future, consequently she still had them to meet. 'Tou'd be surprised what I can do," she finally said, teasingly, as they entered the house. "Surprised!
Maybe you think I'm not already. But enough's enough. You're quitting." ''Aunt' Delia," cried Dick, rushing into the house after a mysterious excursion through the garden and up along the edge of the wheat, 'I'm trapping. I'm cleaning the squirrels out." "Ugh," Delia gasped. "Surely, you're not letting him—" "Oh, yes, Dickie’s a man now." IN the end Della returned to the city, declaring that she was no longer equal to the task of looking after Anne and the children, Meanwhile, the summer days grew hotter, and the wheat struggled for growth on the hillside, while the lucerne came into bloom in the small field below the ditch. The squirrels began to nibble at the edges of the grain, which immediately responded by turning a sickening yellow; but Anne set out poison and destroyed them. And when the Proper time came, she mowed and raked the hay; then, hired it stacked, Promising to pay for it when the threshing was done. "I'm learning to appreciate the beauty of living close to the good earth," she wrote to Della. "Yes, I'm learning to be a farmer." She was gloating over these achievements the morning Sam Hadfield again drove into the yard. "Well, Mrs. Raines, I see you're sticking it out bettern I thought you could. But the worst part's "Surely, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948 coming.
Cattle are driftin' in from the mountains now, and they'll be crowdin' the fences to get into your wheat. Why don't you let me look after it. I'll get it 'cut as soon as possible, then I c'n let my cattle come right in, I expect to use this place, you know, as a fall pasture." It took a mighty effort on Anne's part to remain unruffled at this poorly disguised assumption of ownership, yet she steadied herself to meet the issue. "Have you actually bought this place from my husband, or did you merely make him an offer?" she inquired as casually as she was able.
Hadfield was taken back by this sally, but he was ready for it. "Why —er—I bought it.
That is | paid him a payment on it to bind the bargain. He said he wanted some money to pay on a place in town."
Anne felt herself growing faint. "Oh, I see." Joe hadn't said anything to her about a payment, and she had been under the impression they had merely come to some sort of verbal agreement which could not be considered binding. "May—may I ask the price agreed on?" Hadfield, still sitting in his Can, tried to dodge the question, but she wouldn't let him, "I'm payin' him ten dollars an acre," be blurted. "Why, that's robbery! It's worth three times that much. I won't agree. I'll fight it.' Anne was trembling from head to foot, but never in her life before had she been so determined. "I'm going at once to see Joe about this. We're not going to sell—at all." "You've already sold," Hadfield half snarled, driving away. (To be concluded) Sentiment and Sanitation