[Vol35 | March 1948 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Tightening the Norton]

Montana Street El Paso, Texas Tightening the Knot Alice Whitson Norton 66 ELL, Dot,' big Dean Alford exclaimed, after returning from their joyous honeymoon, "I guess it's time for us to settle down now and begin tightening the knot. That's just an old saying in this community," Dean laughed, "but you might find it both amusing and helpful to glean the meaning of it for yourself." The young wife thought of the matter as she went about setting in order the cozy little house of which she was now mistress. But, reaching no sensible conclusion, she finally questioned Mrs. Carter, her next door neighbor as to just what her husband had meant.' "Tightening the knot," laughed Mrs. Carter, "is a familiar saying in this particular locality, one which I believe has been handed down from generation to generation among the families who have grown up here." "But what does it mean?" Dot. Asked, with a bit of curiosity. "It means just this," chuckled the — older woman, "the things that men and women do that bind them closer together as their years of married life increase in number." "Oh!" exclaimed Dot, in a tone that clearly revealed she knew very little more than she had a moment before. "It's like this," Mrs.
Carter went on, "this small community prides itself on the few divorce cases registered against it, and one and all agree that it has been through the tightening of the marriage knot that such a condition exists. "I guess I'm a little dull, Mrs. Carter," Dot answered, "but perhaps I will learn later on what weight tightening the marriage vows carries." "IT had to learn," laughed Mts. Carter, "when I fist came. "But Mrs. West, the bride just before myself who came to live in the valley, advised me to visit with the neighbors and draw them out on the subject, and—well—" she finished softly, "doing just that opened my eyes considerably." "But I'm a_ timid soul," Dot argued. "Just the same," answered the woman, "visiting the folks living here and observing them closely will make you think seriously of the nice congenial neighborhood in which you have come to live." IT is true Dot was timid, but she was also a keen observer, and through observation she soon discovered Esther Cooper, a very placid type of woman, living on perfectly congenial terms with her husband. She attributed the fact of her happy existence to keeping herself calm when her husband came home in a dark mood. When Dick arrived home like that, she explained, he wasn't the man she married, but only a tired, harassed business man who would recover his amiable disposition ever so much quicker by her leaving him alone. "Oh, yes," she admitted, when Dot questioned her about it, "it Page 209 210 took a little time to learn that. But once I did, I found that it tightened the knot considerably. You see, by one of the two of us remaining placid when the other is glum or nervous, no arguments can arise. And, after all, many a home begins its undoing by arguments. And by refraining from that one feminine attribute," laughed the soft-voiced woman, "I have a very happy home today, and my husband rarely comes to it now in a dark mood." The tightening of the knot took on an entirely different aspect in the next case.
Quite an elderly couple were Mr. And Mrs. Burk, whose comfortable home Dot and big Dean frequently enjoyed. Here Dot discussed the matter with the man. "Oh," chuckled the husband good naturedly, "I couldn't have accomplished even the half I have, if it hadn't been for my good wife. She's what one might call a seer—you know, good foresight, always looking ahead and planning, and because I discovered early in the game that her judgment was better than mine, we've worked wonderfully together."
Another man in the community attributed his success in married life to the rose-colored glasses his wife wore. No matter how dark and threatening the clouds might be above their heads, this good woman could always catch a glimpse of the silver lining. "That," said the old man, as he went about serenely planting a row of bulbs along the old-fashioned walk leading from the house to the big front gate, "tightened our marriage knot." LITTLE Mrs. Tremble, the very busiest housewife in the whole neighborhood, and mother of seven children, gave credit for her happy life to the fact that she lived on what her husband provided, without complaining, and taught her children that mentality made them the equal of anybody, and that they had never been taught that money was considered wealth. But it was from little Mrs. Joiner, who shared her home with both her mother and her sister-in-law, that Dot learned the greatest lesson.
Such congeniality among three women Dot had never seen before. In her heart she pondered much on how it had come about, since her own relationship with her mother and her husband's sister was strained and unnatural. Finally, the opportunity came and Dot sought an explanation. I really give myself credit for this priceless possession," confided Mrs.
Joiner when Dot questioned her about it. You see," she added very softly, "I came from another state which, I am sorry to say, carries no such reputation as this, and when I arrived I was quick to sense I was unwanted in a family that, without me, was harmonious. My husband, realizing I wanted to be friendly with my in-laws, shared the truth with me. His mother and sister, he told me truthfully, resented the love he had to share among us, therefore they were jealous of me and my place." ''Well," said Dot, "you seem to have found a way around it, all right." "Oh, yes," agreed the woman, "but it took both time and patience. My first move was to send John home frequently for a visit with his mother and sister alone.
This hurt to the heart's core, but it gave them 212 a chance to discuss intimate things in which they felt at that time I had no share. Then I began inviting them to our home, and making them so thoroughly comfortable that they had no excuse for thinking I wanted to monopolize my husband's affections or to break him from his home ties. I made it a point to call his mother every morning, sometimes asking her to tell me John's favorite dish, and frequently requesting her, when she had told me, to come over and prepare it for the evening dinner. 'Then I began asking his mother to let me drive her when she wanted to run into town, or the sister to use my. Car, which was a wedding gift from my father. At first I was keenly aware they were puzzled over my attitude, but when they realized I was sincere in the matter, well—" she added softly, "I simply became one of them, and we've lived in perfect harmony ever since."
After that bit of information, Dot went home to do a little thinking on her own behalf.
Three miles up the valley lived Dean's people. She had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948 been to see them twice, and his family had returned her visit both times, but there had been a chilly atmosphere between them. Dean's mother was not her mother, nor was his sister her sister. 'They lived in their house—and she and Dean lived in theirs—yet there were times when Dean had a faraway look in his eyes, and his firm lips drooped a bit at the corners. In a flash, Dot understood why, and resolved, as little Mrs.
Joiner had done, she, too, would wipe out any sign of petty jealousy and become part of her husband's family.
This took time, persistence, and patience, but today there is not a happier home in the valley than that of Dot and Dean Arnold, simply because Dot learned from her neighbors what it meant to tighten the marriage knot, and of her own accord she tightened the one binding her to the man of her choice. - What about your own marriage knot? Is it slipping?
Look well into the matter, and if it is, make an effort to tighten the knot before the cord breaks. —_< BEAUTY Mabel Jones Gabbott There were tall pines in the forest, Weighted with needles, of green, Great, massive oaks stood between them, Dwarfing the cedars between. And there was a slight, slender maple, Gracefully tipped toward the sun, Calmly aloof in a clearing, Wearing her scarlet and dun.
Pine needles carpet the forest, Oaks make a windbreak for all; Why am I cheered most, remembering The slight, slender maple last fall?
Stamped quilt tops, floral designs. 7.98 and 8.98
Baby Quilts, 3.98
Stamped pillow, case tubing. Cutwork and easy embroidery. 2.69
American Lady tufted rugs. Stamped rug, 4.50, $6, $10
Yarn, ready cut. § 25¢ package Skein, 35c NEEDLEPOINT Large chairs - - 6.9810 8.98
Footstools for covering 6.50 to 15.98 NEEDLEPOINT YARN Large skein, 65c — Small skein, 29c ART-NEEDLEWORK — FOURTH FLOOR Dining room chair 1.98 to 5.98