[Vol35 | March 1948 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty Years Ago]

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, March 1, and March 15, 1888 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women or All Nations" FREEDOM OF. SPEECH: How fiercely we pounce upon our best friends when their opinions are the opposites of our own! How little we tolerate liberty of thought in others, though claiming it so passionately for ourselves —T. Tilton REQUIREMENTS FOR NURSES: The six qualifications for a good nurse are: Presence of mind, gentleness, accuracy, memory, observation, and forethought—The Children's Hospital, London THE SABBATH DAY: The sabbath is to the rest of the week in spirituals, what summer is to the rest of the year in temporals; it is the chief time for gathering knowledge to last you through the following week, just as summer is the chief season for gathering food to last you through the following twelve months.—A. W. Hare PASSING AWAY Is it well to look back to the days that are gone, Is it well to remember the sunshine and song? Do they help us the better life's labors to bear, Will they help us to win to that home over there? I know not, but oft in the twilight's still hours, There steals on my sense, like perfume of flowers, Sweet dreams of the past, and they soothe me to rest Like a message of love from the land of the blest. —Hope MISS ALCOTT'S ADVICE: Girls, don't be in haste to wed.
Build up healthy bodies by good food, plenty of exercise, and sleep.
Learn all the useful household arts before you attempt to make a home.
Cultivate your minds with the best books that you may be able to teach your children much that school training alone will never give them.
Choose your amusements wisely, for youth must have pleasure, but need not waste itself in harmful frivolity.
Above all, select your friends with care.
Avoid girls who live only for fashion, flirtation, and enjoyment, and use the privilege all women may claim of declining the acquaintance of young men whose lives will not bear inspection by the innocent eyes of women. Let no delusion of wealth, rank, comeliness, or love tempt you to trust your happiness to such a one.
Watch and wait till the true lover comes.—Selected. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN BEAVER STAKE (UTAH): Sister Ruth Tyler said the sisters in her ward were trying to take care of the poor and perform all their duties. 'The labor of caring for our families is great, but we must try to devote a portion of our time to the work of the Lord, and he will bless us with his Holy Spirit." Sister Hattie Fotheringham said: "We should try to overlook one another's faults and cherish a spirit of forgiveness toward all. We should try to improve our minds and bless those around us. Sister Mary Ashworth spoke of the responsibilities of mothers in raising their children and said it was our privilege to enjoy the spirit of the Lord in performing our duties. Sister Delia Cox said: "It is not the actions of others, but our own actions that will condemn, or save and exalt us.'"-—Louisa Jones, Stake Sec. Page 180