[Vol35 | March 1948 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Mormonism in the Eyes of Clark]

MORMONISM IN THE EYES OF THE PRESS James R. Clark, Brigham Young University Copyright 1948 IV Mormon Reaction to Criticism in the Press (Fourth and last installment of a series of articles dealing with early Latter-day Saint history) 
ALTHOUGH the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was formally organized on April 6, 1830, the inaugural of the establishment of the Church was the first vision of Joseph Smith in the spring of the year 1820. In the story of that vision, published and republished in Mormon and non-Mormon literature since that time, the Prophet Joseph Smith says that he saw two personages:
. . . . . whose brightness and glory defy all description, standing above me in the air. One of them spake to me, calling me by name, and said—pointing to the other—This is my Beloved Son, hear him.
Joseph Smith relates that after having had this vision he informed his neighbors, associates, and the ministers of various churches in his vicinity of his experience, and that he immediately encountered opposition and persecution.
The very first reaction of the Smith family to the press that has come to my attention is a paid advertisement which Joseph Smith Sr., father of the Prophet, inserted in the local "home-town" newspaper in Palmyra, New York. The advertisement ran for three consecutive issues, beginning September 25, 1824.
This was not the usual run-of-the mill type of advertisement of land or livestock for sale. The advertisement was inserted by the senior Smith in an attempt to allay some of the opposition and persecution which had been engendered by his son's bold claims, and which had taken the form of malicious rumor to the effect that the body of Alvin Smith, brother of the Prophet, had been disturbed from its resting place and dissected. Father Smith says of his purpose in printing a denial of the rumors in the Wayne Sentinel:
This method is taken for the purpose of satisfying the minds of those who have heard the report, and of informing those who have put it in circulation, that it is earnestly requested they would desist therefrom; and that it is believed by some that they have been stimulated more by a desire to injure the reputation of certain persons than a philanthropy for the peace and welfare of myself and friends. (Signed) Joseph Smith.
Unless some new sources later come to light to prove otherwise, we may consider it highly probable that Joseph Smith Sr. was the first of the future Latter-day Saints to grasp what the newspaper could mean in the redress of their wrongs. It is perhaps also significant that this initial use of the newspaper came not in the form of a letter or article to a friendly editor, but in the form of a paid advertisement. The above attempt to allay prejudice and persecution may also be considered to be the inauguration of a policy that the Latter-day Saints followed throughout the period from 1824 to 1850, namely, that of the use of the public press, whenever accessible, as an agency for public hearing and redress.
Throughout his history of the Church which the Prophet Joseph Smith dictated to his clerks, he repeatedly refers to the influence of the press in relations between the Latter-day Saints and the American public. In the spring of 1831, only one year after the organization of the Church, he says:
At this age of the Church many false reports, lies, and foolish stories, were published in the newspapers and circulated in every direction, to prevent people from investigating the work, or embracing the faith. A great earthquake in China, which destroyed from one to two thousand inhabitants was burlesqued in some papers as "Mormonism in China."
LESS than two years after the Church was organized, a Mormon periodical was established at Independence, Missouri, with W. W. Phelps as editor. The first issue of The Evening and the Morning Star reached Joseph Smith in Kirtland, Ohio, in July 1832. In commenting on this first issue of the first Latter-day Saint periodical, Joseph Smith said:
Delightful indeed, was it to contemplate that the little band of brethren had become so large, and grown so strong, in so short a time as to be able to issue a paper of their own, which contained not only some of the revelations, but other information also, which would gratify and enlighten the humble inquirer after truth.
So embittered was the public mind against the truth that the press universally had been arrayed against us; and although many newspapers published the prospectus of our paper, yet appeared to have done so more to calumniate the editor, than give publicity to the forthcoming periodical. Editor thought to do us harm, while the Saints rejoiced that they could do nothing against the truth but for it.
In January 1833, Joseph Smith wrote to W. W. Phelps expressing dissatisfaction with the manner in which The Evening and the Morning Star was being conducted. He said:
We wish you to render the Star as interesting as possible, by setting forth the progress, and faith of the Church, as well as the doctrine, for if you do not render it more interesting than at present it will fall, and the Church suffer a great loss thereby.
As controversies arose in Missouri between the Saints and their neighbors, reports of the difficulties began to appear in the newspapers and both groups used the Missouri papers to present their case to the public.
In a letter written from Kirtland, Ohio, to Edward Partridge in Liberty, Clay County, Missouri, Joseph Smith referred to a communication of Orson Hyde on the Missouri difficulties as published in the Missouri Republican. He said it was at variance with the reports he had received through private letters. (D.H.C. 1:448). The interesting thing about this communication to Edward Partridge is the fact that Joseph Smith seems to have given at least some credence to the reports in the Missouri Republican even though he was generally skeptical of most newspaper reports. He instructed Edward Partridge to gather the correct information and send it immediately to Kirtland, Ohio, so that he could in turn, "give the public correct information on the subject." That as early as 1833
Joseph Smith did not overlook the possibility of using a political as well as a religious newspaper, to present the Church point of view, is evidenced by another statement from this same letter to Edward Partridge. He said: We expect shortly to publish a political Paper, weekly, in favor of the present administration; the influential men of that party have offered a liberal patronage to us, and we hope to succeed, for thereby we can show the public the purity of our intention in Supporting the government under which we live. The party referred to was the Democratic party under the leadership of Andrew Jackson.
Enough has been given from the writings of Joseph Smith to indicate his attitude towards newspapers as an instrument in presenting the Church viewpoint and to indicate that he was conscious of the fact that the press exerted influence in shaping public opinion. The Latter-day Saint Church issue was only one of many controversial issues occupying the press during the thirties and forties of the past century, and the saints were not the only group that was being criticized. But editors seemed to exercise unusual editorial prerogative in their handling of the news of the Church, especially in not printing articles which Joseph Smith and other leaders sought to have published.
Although it is quite certain that the Latter-day Saints were not the only group thus unjustly dealt with by the newspapers, it was undoubtedly this adverse treatment in the public press which called forth from Parley P.
Pratt an answer, in book form, which 175 has been one of the most widely printed and circulated pieces of Church literature. In his preface to the first edition of A Voice of Warning and Instruction to all People, published in New York in 1837, Parley P.
Pratt said: During the last seven years the public mind has been constantly agitated, more or less, through all parts of the country, with the cry of Mormonism, Mormonism, Delusion, Imposture, Fanaticism, etc.; chiefly through the instrumentality of the press.
Many of the newspapers of the day have been constantly teeming with misrepresentations, and lying slanders, of the foulest kind, in order to destroy the influence and character of an innocent Society, in its very infancy; a Society of whose real principles many of them know nothing at all.
Every species of wickedness has been resorted to, and all manner of evil has been spoken against them, without the possibility of being heard for a moment, saying we do not wish to hear you, we know enough of your principles already; the newspapers, or our good preachers, have told us about you....
Under these circumstances, what could be done? How were we to correct the public mind? We were few in number, and our means of giving information very limited; the columns of most of the Papers were closed against us, their prosperity being at stake the moment our principles were admitted; it is true we published a monthly paper, in which our principles were clearly set forth; but its circulation was limited to a few thousands....
Having said so much to impress upon the human mind the necessity of hearing, and then judging, I would only add, that the object of this publication is to give the public correct information concerning a religious system which has penetrated every state from Maine to Missouri, as well as the Canadas, in the short space of seven years; organizing churches and conferences in every region, and gathering in its progress from fifty to an hundred thousand disciples; having, at the same time, to sustain the shock of an overwhelming religious influence, opposed to it by the combined powers of every sect in America. What 176 but the arm of Omnipotence could have moved it forward amid the rage of mobs?
Having to contend with the prejudice of the ignorant and the pen of the learned; at war with every creed and craft in Christendom; while the combined powers of earth and hell were hurling a storm of persecution, unparalleled in the history of our country.... HIS quotation states the general attitude of the majority of Church leaders toward the press of the period. The following reaction of a Latter-day Saint, as recorded in his diary, is typical of a number of comments from diaries of Church members who were not General Authorities. Jesse Wentworth Crosby, born November 25, 1820, in Yarmouth, Nova Scotia of British parentage, emigrated to Chautauqua County, New York with his parents in 1822. In 1838 he was baptized into the Church in Chautauqua County. In an entry in his diary for April, 1839 he said: The time passed... It was now April, and all things being ready we set about for Missouri—one thousand miles distant (1000) traveling by land with horse teams and lodging in our wagons; but before leaving our neighbors called often and _remonstrated with us for taking, as they thought, such a random journey. One said, "Have you read the news: Why the Missourians and the Mormons are at war, they are killing and destroying, and will you persist in going, and running into danger and death?" We replied, "We have warned you by words, now we warm you by light. If danger or death gets in our way, we intend by the help of God to face the same like men of God, and show all men by example that we have embraced no fiction but an eternal reality, and when the secrets of all hearts are revealed, then, if not till then, you shall know that we are not deceived."
This excerpt shows that Crosby, learning through the press that the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1948
Church he had joined one year previously was having serious difficulties in Missouri, still manifests a determination to "gather to Zion" and, if "necessary, give up his life in the cause. The statement also indicates that Crosby's neighbors accepted the newspaper accounts and sought to dissuade him from going into an area where he was certain to meet opposition and persecution. It is also evident from Crosby's reply that he or his family had attempted to proselyte their neighbors and had failed, but that they were still speaking to each other despite the rumors afloat in the press. Certainly, a neighbor who comes on the eve of departure to attempt to dissuade one from a course of action which he feels is 'a random journey," and one fraught with "danger and death," is acting the part of a friend. Why did Crosby and his neighbors seemingly remain on friendly terms despite the unfavorable newspaper comments? Why did they fail to follow the usual reaction to bitter criticism and rumor? An explanation of the continued friendliness of Crosby's neighbors, despite the adverse criticism of the Church in the press, may lie in Crosby's seventeen years residence in the community. I have found numerous other examples which seem _ to indicate that the saints withstood criticism in the press better in those areas where they had been resident for a considerable length of time, and when the uprightness of their characters had been manifest over the years. Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? (Matt. 7:6).