[Vol35 | March 1948 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Our Childrens Children Dean]
Then the voices sang, "High on the Mountain Top," and then "True to the Faith." As their words came out so clear on the air, Carol followed the words carefully.
When they began the refrain she joined with them, and sang the words, "True to the faith, which our parents have cherished; true to the truth for which martyrs have perished; to God's command, soul, heart, and 'hand, faithful and true we will ever stand." She was one of the youth of Zion, and she must not falter.
OUR CHILDREN'S CHILDREN
As her sweet voice floated out on the air, the voices of her mother and grandmother on the porch became hushed. A flood of tears filled her mother's eyes.
Carol went out to them, holding the old journal in her hand. She opened it to the lines her grandfather had written, and, taking her mother by the hand, she read, "We came here not for ourselves alone, but for our children and our children's children, that they may grow and increase in the faith and be a light to all the world."
With thankfulness in her face, Mary Bailey said softly, "Oh, you 161 do believe, Carol Darling. I am so happy." "Yes, Mother," Carol said, "I am one of those children." Then, with a bright smile, she continued, "Did you say Phil would be home in a few weeks from his mission? I hope he will be glad to see me.
Maybe he will be able to go to school here in Salt Lake this winter, and then I think I would even go out to his little town to live." Her face clouded a trifle for a moment as she said, "Good night. I have a letter I must write to Greg. I hope he will understand." little granddaughter.
Time for writing." Myrtle M. Dean, Provo, Utah, has had a story and a poem previously published in The Relief Society Magazine. A busy housewife and mother, Mrs.
Dean submits the following brief sketch of her activities: "I have always been interested in writing and have written stories and poems since I was a young girl. I have notebooks full of them, mostly in the rough. Children, four daughters and one son, and now have seven grandsons and one My husband, Charles E. Dean, has been a bishop's counselor for six years in Provo, and I have held offices in most of the Church organizations.
