[Vol35 | March 1948 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The Beauty of a Morris]
The  Mission  of  the  Rehef  Society 
Mark  E.  Petersen 
Member  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve 
THE  Relief  Society  is  one  of  their  efforts.  Without  them,  we  nev- 
the    agencies    in    the    hands  er    could    have    achieved    so    well, 
of  the  Lord  for  the  salvation  Ihrough  all  their  trials,  they  v^ere 
of   souls,  and  the  women    of   the  saints  and  mothers  combined— like 
Church  may  become  saviors  upon  angels   of  God  ministering  among 
Mt.  Zion  as  effectively  through  it  men.      They     helped     the     poor, 
as  they  can  in  any  other  way.  nursed  the  sick,  prepared  the  dead 
The  need  to  save  souls  was  never  for    burial,    taught    culture,    built 
greater  than  at   the  present  time,  character,    and     established    faith. 
Probably  in  no  other  day  have  the  Great  is  their  glory, 
forces  of  evil  been  so  persistent  as         In  doing  these  things   they  car- 
they  are   now  in    their    efforts    to  ried  out  the  spirit  and  the  letter  of 
weaken    character,    undermine    the  the  charge  given  them  by  the  proph- 
home,  violate  the  sanctity  of  mar-  ets  of  this  dispensation  through  the 
riage,  and  destroy  the  very  founda-  medium  of  the  great  Relief  Society 
tions  of  all  happiness.  organization  which  was  established 
The  women  of  the  Church  have  by  divine  guidance, 
always  been  champions  of  the  right.  The  women  of  the  Church  have 
In  the  days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  a  great  mission.  It  can  be  fulfilled 
Smith  they  rallied  to  protect  his  life  most  effectively  if  it  is  accomplished 
and  the  lives  of  his  family;  they  sac-  in  co-operation  with  the  organized 
rificed  to  build  the  early  temples  of  Relief  Society  of  the  Church.  The 
the  Church,  and  when  the  time  Relief  Society  is  not  a  charity  organ- 
came  to  choose  between  the  com-  ization  alone;  it  is  a  means  through 
forts  of  their  Midwestern  homes  which  homes  are  strengthened,  com- 
and  the  rigors  of  pioneer  life  as  the  munities  improved,  and  souls  saved, 
price  of  religious  freedom,  they  left  One  day,  while  addressing  the 
those  homes,  crossed  the  plains,  and  women  of  the  Society,  the  Prophet 
with  their  husbands  settled  the  val-  Joseph  Smith  said:  'The  best  meas- 
leys  of  the  Rockies.  They  faced  the  ure  or  principle  to  bring  the  poor  to 
dangers  of  childbearing  without  hos-  repentance  is  to  administer  to  their 
pitals  and  often  with  no  medical  wants.  The  Society  is  not  only  to 
aid.  They  endured  hunger  and  relieve  the  poor,  but  to  save  souls.'' 
cold,  attacks  from  Indians,  and  the  He  said  that  the  sisters  are  to  search 
affronts  of  the  world.  But,  filled  with  after  objects  of  charity  and  admin- 
faith  and  determination,  and  an  ister  to  their  wants;  assist  in  correct- 
understanding  of  their  great  objec-  ing  the  morals  and  strengthening 
tive,  they  applied  themselves  to  the  the  virtues  of  the  community;  avoid 
task.  What  we  now  have  in  the  all  evil,  even  its  very  appearance; 
West  came  in  large  measure  through  they  were  to  pray  for  one  another, 
Page  147

148  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MARCH  1948  ^ 
leam  to  treat  their  husbands  with  ization  through  which  can  be  chan- 
mildness   and  affection,   and  have  neled  best  the  co-operative  endeav- 
mercy  on  one  another.    He  also  told  ors  of  those  women, 
them  that  they  were  to  practice  the        One  of  the  great  tasks  before  us 
principles  of  holiness.  is  the  preservation  of  the  integrity 
of  the  home.  Broken  homes  are  be- 
TN  the  same  spirit  President  Joseph  coming  like  a  plague  in  America.  Re- 
F.  Smith  said  that  the  Relief  So-  cent  figures  reveal  that  there  is  one 
ciety  "has  not  only  to  deal  with  the  divorce  to  every  three  marriages  in 
necessities  of  the  poor,  the  sick  and  the  United  States  and  in  some  areas 
the  needy,  but  a  part  of  its  duty—  divorces  equal  marriages  in  number, 
and  the  larger  part,  too— is  to  look  This  calamity  is  moving  into  our 
after  the  spiritual  welfare  and  salva-  own  ranks.  We  need  to  be  forti- 
tion  of  the  mothers  and  daughters  fied  against  it. 
of  Zion;  to  see  that  none  is  neglect-  The  Relief  Society  provides  a 
ed,  but  that  all  are  guarded  against  great  bulwark.  Its  program  helps 
misfortune,  calamity,  the  powers  of  make  homes  more  secure  by  train- 
darkness,  and  the  evils  that  threaten  ing  women  in  every  phase  of  home- 
them  in  the  world.  It  is  the  duty  making.  Better  homemaking  makes 
of  the  Relief  Societies  to  look  after  better  homes,  and  in  better  homes 
the  spiritual  welfare  of  themselves  will  be  improved  character  develop- 
and  of  all  the  female  members  of  the  ment.  This  activity  enters  into  the 
Church."  field  of  child  care,  also,  giving  assist- 
On  another  occasion  this  great  ance  in  this  regard  from  the  time  of 
leader  taught:  "The  objects  of  this  birth  on.  It  is  a  great  avenue  of  serv- 
organization  are  manifold.  It  is  not  ice. 
designed  to  look  only  after  the  poor 
and  the  needy  as  to  their  bodily  jyi OTHERS  are  prepared  in  Relief 
necessities,  but  it  is  also  intended  Society  more  effectively  to 
to  look  after  the  spiritual,  mental  meet  the  growth  of  worldliness  with 
and  moral  welfare  of  the  mothers  stronger  faith  and  a  wider  knowledge 
and  daughters  in  Zion,  and  all  who  of  the  gospel.  Testimony  bearing 
are  engaged  or  interested  in  female  and  lessons  in  theology  are  impor- 
work.  I  commend  the  Relief  So-  tant  phases  of  its  weekly  program, 
cieties  to  the  Bishops,  and  say,  be  Other  cultural  work  further  helps 
friendly  to  these  organizations,  be-  mothers  to  make  better  homes, 
cause  they  are  auxiliary  organizations  The  arts  are  taught.  Touches  of 
and  a  great  help  to  the  Bishops."  beauty  are  added  to  the  sunound- 
These  inspired  objectives  shine  ings.  Homes  become  more  pleas- 
like  a  beacon  of  safety  now  in  our  ant.  Leisure  time  is  filled  with  ac- 
day.  The  homes  and  families  of  our  tivities  which  promote  happiness 
communities  are  confronted  with  and  satisfaction  on  the  part  of  the 
serious  problems  which  require  the  woman  herself,  and  joy  and  com- 
individual  and  collective  attention  mendation  in  the  minds  of  husband 
of  the  women  of  the  Church.  United  and  children.  Education  in  htera- 
effort  can  solve  these  problems,  and  ture  is  an  important  part  of  Relief 
the  Relief  Society  is  the  one  organ-  Society  work.     New  horizons  ap-

THE  MISSION  OF  THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY  149 
pear,  bringing  fresh  hopes  and  high-  hshed  the  first  L.D.S.  Hospital  in 
er  aspirations.  the  West  at  First  East  and  South 
And  then  there  is  the  opportun-  Temple  Streets  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
ity  to  help  others.  Calls  upon  the  They  saved  grain,  helped  the  Red 
Church  Welfare  Program  are  tre-  Cross,  provided  maternity  care,  con- 
mendous.  These  postwar  years  have  ducted  exhibits  in  fairs  from  coast 
revealed  the  great  need  for  the  relief  to  coast,  erected  Relief  Society  halls 
work  carried  on  by  the  Church,  for  the  prosecution  of  their  work, 
Many  of  our  own  members  suffered  and  made  connections  with  other 
much  from  the  late  war.  Some  are  women's  organizations  on  a  world- 
still  in  distress.  But  need  arises  at  wide  scale.  These  women  have 
home,  also,  and  in  the  future,  with  never  feared  work.  They  have  faced 
national  and  international  affairs  so  every  situation  as  it  has  arisen.  They 
disturbed,  who  can  tell  when  it  will  will  face  those  that  will  come  in  the 
be  even  greater?  future  with  the  same  willingness  and 
Budgets  worked  out  by  the  Gen-  determination.  Their  program  is 
eral  Authorities  to  meet  present  ever  widening,  in  stakes  and  in  mis- 
emergencies,  require  a  great  deal  of  sions.  Where  Latter-day  Saints  are, 
organized  assistance  from  the  worn-  there  is  the  Relief  Society, 
en  of  the  Church.  Sewing,  canning.  Not  only  does  it  encourage  women 
nursing,  directly  assisting  the  poor  to  participate  in  this  great  program, 
with  shelter,  food,  and  raiment,  it  urges  their  husbands  on,  also,  in 
make  heavy  demands  upon  the  wom-  Welfare  activity,  in  Priesthood  work, 
en  of  the  Church.  Organized  ac-  and  in  all  other  righteous  efforts, 
tivity  is  essential.  The  Relief  So-  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  is  often 
ciety  provides  it.  quoted  as  having  said  that  the  sisters 
are  to  "provoke  the  brethren  to  good 
'^ORK    meetings    are    arranged  works."     Usually  the  quotation  is 
periodically,  and  the  women  in  not  given  completely  as  the  Prophet 
groups  in  their  Relief  Society  rooms,  originally  gave  it.     This  quotation 
canning  centers,  and  gardens,  or  in-  actually  reads:  "provoke  the  brethren 
dividually  at  home,  accept  the  work  to  good  works  in  looking  to  the  wants 
assignments.    Work    meetings   are  ot  the  poor.*' 
not  new  to  Relief  Society  women.  Relief  Society   sisters  should  be 
They  have  been  characteristic  of  the  ever  diligent  in  searching  out  those 
program  from  the  beginning.  Sew-  in  need.    Bishops  should  be  on  the 
ing   and   quilting   gatherings   were  alert  to  have  the  Welfare  program  in 
held  both  before  and  after  crossing  their  wards  efficient  enough  to  meet 
the  plains.    When  Johnston's  army  the  needs  revealed  by  the  work  of 
threatened  Utah,  the  women  again  the  sisters.    It  is  all  in  the  plan, 
went  to  work  to  do  their  part  in  Inasmuch  as  organized  effort  on  a 
defense  of  home  and  loved  ones.  Church-v^de  scale  is  needed  to  meet 
While  frontier  conditions  still  exist-  the  requirements  of  the  day,  it  is 
ed  in  the  West,  these  women  studied  most  fitting  that  the  Relief  Society 
hygiene    and    nursing,    and    were  now  plans   for   the  erection   of  a 
among   the   principal   boosters    of  women's  building  to  properly  house 
home  industry.    In  1882  they  estab-  headquarters  for  these  activities,  to

150  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MARCH   1948 
perpetuate  the  ideals  of  the  Society,  Any  woman— from  bride  to  grand- 
and  to  serve  as  a  great  memorial  to  mother— may  well  be  proud  of  mem- 
those  of  the  past  who  have  built  and  bership  in  the  great  Relief  Society 
served  so  well.  This  beautiful  struc-  organization.  Such  membership  is 
ture  will  become  a  source  of  pride  a  privilege  and  an  opportunity, 
and  usefulness  to  the  women  of  the  The  organization  is  rich  in  inspira- 
Church  and  will  be  an  emblem  to  tion,  abundant  in  the  service  it  rend- 
all  mankind  of  the  purity,  faith,  and  ers  to  its  members  themselves,  and 
industry  of  Latter-day  Saint  woman-  devoted  to  the  welfare  of  others.  Its 
hood.  program  is  productive  of  those  things 
The  structure  will  be  reared  in  which  homes  and  communities  of 
part  by  the  contributions  of  the  today  so  sorely  need.  It  is  God's 
women  themselves,  who  are  gather-  organization  for  his  faithful  hand- 
ing funds  from  far  and  near  for  this  maidens  of  the  last  great  dispensa- 
great  undertaking.  tion. 
FIRST  VIOLETS 
Gene  RomoJo 
Beneath  brown  leaves  from  yesteryear, 
I  gently  rake  and  thrust  aside. 
They  lift  their  purple-hooded  heads. 
Like  modest  folk  untouched  by  pride. 
They  come  each  spring  to  offer  me 
Their  largess  of  humility. 
SPRING  WILL  COME 
Susa  Gould  WaJker 
New  life  and  beauty  everywhere; 
Rebirth  to  grass  and  trees  and  flowers; 
They  were  not  dead— they  were  asleep, 
Awaiting  summer  sun  and  showers. 
The  thought  plants  truth  in  every  heart: 
The  houses  which  enshroud  our  souls 
Will  die,  but  not  the  souls  of  men; 
A  spring  will  come  for  everyone, 
And  they  that  sleep  shall  live  again.

[Keltef  Society    Ujutiding    iiews 
RELIEF  Society  women  all  over  the  Church  are  interested  in  the  dif- 
ferent ways  that  the  wards  are  collecting  the  $5  quotas  from  mem- 
bers for  the  Relief  Society  building  fund,  and  the  various  means 
wards  are  using  to  chart  the  progress  of  their  fund  quotas.  As  a  general 
rule,  the  visiting  teachers  throughout  the  Church  are  being  used  to  publi- 
cize the  fund-raising  campaign  and  in  many  instances  to  make  the  collec- 
tion, once  more  demonstrating  the  oft-repeated  phrase  that  ''the  visiting 
teachers  are  the  backbone  of  Relief  Society."  Some  wards  have  visiting 
teachers  leave  envelopes  in  the  homes  into  which  Relief  Society  members 
may  place  their  dimes  until  they  have  saved  the  $5;  others  are  leaving  small 
containers  of  different  types  and  styles  into  which  the  money  may  be  put. 
In  some  localities  it  is  recommended  that  jars  be  kept  in  conspicuous  places 
and  family  members  be  asked  to  place  pennies  or  nickels  in  as  they  can. 
This  is  a  good  plan  as  it  allows  the  entire  family  to  participate  and  recall 
the  faithful  work  of  a  grandmother  or  some  other  woman  member  of  the 
family  who  is  remembered  for  her  outstanding  Relief  Society  service. 
In  addition  to  collecting  individual  member  donations,  some  Relief 
Societies  are  taking  steps  to  raise  money  as  a  group  in  order  to  help  sisters 
who  may  find  it  difficult  to  make  a  $5  contribution.  One  ward  is  turning 
over  to  the  fund,  for  a  limited  time,  all  money  made  by  quilting;  another 
has  a  ''sale  table"  at  each  Relief  Society  meeting  where  handmade  articles 
are  on  sale  following  the  meeting.  Still  another  ward  has  a  food  table 
where  busy  housewives  can  purchase  homemade  delicacies  for  supper.  Some 
Relief  Societies  are  giving  concerts  or  parties  to  which  members  may  bring 
their  quotas.  These  are  just  a  few  of  the  many  ingenious  methods  being 
devised  by  Relief  Society  officers  in  raising  the  assigned  ward  quotas. 
The  most  successful  results  are  found  in  stakes  where  the  Priesthood 
is  actively  supporting  the  program.  In  many  wards  the  bishops  are  writing 
letters  endorsing  the  collection  which  are  left  in  the  homes  by  visiting 
teachers. 
Page  151