[Vol35 | March 1948 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Editorial | Title: A Challenge to Sharp]

EDITORIAL 

VOL 35 MARCH 1948 A Challenge to Our Generation "If the time ever comes that women are organized for the sole purpose of human uplift, it will be a force for good such as this world has never known." —Matthew Amold N March 17, 1842, the women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints were organized, by a prophet of God, for the sole purpose of human uplift, and for the past 105 years they have been a mighty force for good.
During the year just past, the Centennial year of the Church in the West, we have had frequent occasion to look back over the accomplishments of our people during that one hundred years, and we have found their accomplishments great, and the women of the Church, no less than the men, have made great contributions of service for human uplift. The achievements of Relief Society women, both in public life and in the home, stand today as a monument to the power of their faith and service and as a challenge to our generation.
Today we stand with our faces both ways. We look backward with pride on the accomplishments of the past. We have walked the first mile. We also look forward with anticipation to the opportunity for accomplishment that is before us in the year 1948—the first step in the second mile. We are the generation Page 182 that will travel the second mile and its accomplishments will be what we, as individuals, make them.
What can we Relief Society women do today to wield that great force for good? We need not go out and look for new fields of conquest; we need to concern ourselves in giving of our talents to the problems of our everyday life.
Never in the history of our world has there been a greater need for women to strive for the maintenance of the true Latter-day Saint home. Let us get a comprehensive understanding of the gospel and make sure it is being taught and practiced in our homes, Let us rediscover the loyalty of Our pioneer mothers, loyalty to the gospel, to authority, and to our families. Let us establish the practice of family prayer. Let us keep the Sabbath day holy. Let us develop faith, Tove, cheerfulness, and peace in our homes and within ourselves.