[Vol29 | October 1942 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: The Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop]
"bishops  of  wards  will  so  supervise 
the  personnel  of  their  auxiliary  or- 
ganizations as  to  bring  into  immedi- 
ate and  active  service  the  members 
of  the  stake  auxiliary  organizations 
who  are  also  members  of  their 
wards''  and  that  this  be  accomplished 
''in  consultation  with  the  stake  aux- 
iliary officers  concerned." 
If  the  position  accepted  in  the 
ward  is  in  the  same  department  as 
that  held  in  the  stake,  very  little 
additional  preparation  will  be  re- 
quired. The  ward  will  actually  be- 
come a  proving  ground  for  the  stake 
leader,  and  thus  both  the  stake  and 
the  ward  units  will  be  benefited.  Re- 
lieved of  the  union  meeting  and  in 
some  stakes  of  frequent  visiting  be- 
cause of  distances,  stake  leaders  may 
attend  their  own  wards  more  regu- 
larly and  thus  become  a  great  asset 
to  the  ward  organization  as  members. 
Wliile  the  disadvantages  of  tlie  pres- 
ent situation  loom  large,  a  careful 
analysis  of  the  situation  reveals  that 
the  responsibilities  of  stake  leaders 
in  helping  wards  to  maintain  high 
standards  of  work  remain  the  same 
as  heretofore.  It  is  merely  that  new 
ways  of  helping,  in  substitution  for 
union  meeting  and  ward  visits,  must 
be  devised. 
Where  ward  organizations  are  be- 
ing effected  by  efficient  officers  and 
class  leaders  leaving  to  accept  em- 
ployment in  defense  work,  we  may 
well  turn  to  our  new  members. 
Among  the  more  than  40,000  women 
who  have  come  into  the  Society  dur- 
ing the  past  four  years  will  be  found 
many  with  well-developed  talent  and 
many  more  with  potential  ability 
who,  when  given  the  opportunity, 
will  serve  effectively  and  well.  Relief 
Society  has  always  regarded  the  de- 
velopment of  leadership  strength  as 
one  of  its  important  functions. 
Rather  than  being  discouraged  be- 
cause capable  women,  who  in  the 
past  have  served  well,  are  not  now 
free  to  hold  positions  in  the  organi- 
zation, leaders  should  be  alert  to  the 
interests  and  abilities  of  those  who 
are  available,  and  should  recognize 
in  the  present  situation  an  opportun- 
ity to  develop  and  utilize  new  and 
heretofore  unused  strength. 
One  hundred  years  ago,  as  Relief 
Society  embarked  on  its  first  cen- 
tury, there  were,  no  doubt,  many 
problems  to  be  solved  and  many 
difficulties  to  be  overcome— prob- 
lems and  difficulties  different  from 
those  which  mark  the  beginning  of 
the  second  century,  but  no  less 
grave  perhaps  in  the  minds  of  the 
women  responsible  for  the  work  of 
{Continued  on  page  641 )

OajoIcA.  to  the  field 
uiessage  of  CJirst  ^Presidency  to  he  (Read 
JT  is  urged  that  every  officer  and  ferences.   So  cleariy  does  it  set  out 
member  of  Relief  Society  carefully  our  duties,  responsibilities,  and  place 
and  studiously  read  the  message  of  in  the  Church  and  its  activities,  that 
the  First  Presidency  to  the  Society  there  can  hereafter  be  no  ground  for 
published  on  the  back  of  the  frontis-  any  misapprehension  by  anyone  on 
piece  (page  593)  of  this  issue  of  the  ^^^^^  ^^^^^^^   ^^  ^^^  ^^^^     ^^^^^^1 
Magazine.   It  is  also  requested  that  ,.     .        .  i       ,       i     .     • 
this  message  be  read  at  the  opening  ^^'  '^^  ^'^^  "^^""^^^  ^"^  authoritative 
meeting  of  the  Society  in  October  declarations  and  instructions  regard- 
and  also  at  ward  Relief  Society  con-  ing  the  Society,  its  place,  and  service. 
(general  Ujoara  to  itssue   {Booklet  for  C^Iass  JLeaaers 
ATTENTION  of  the  v^ard  officers  time  this  fall,  and  as  soon  as  the 
and  class  leaders  is  called  to  page  booklet  comes  from  the  press  a  sup- 
655  of  the  Magazine  in  which  a  new  ply  will  be  sent  to  stake  Relief  So- 
publication  to  be  issued  by  the  Gen-  ciety  presidents  for  distribution  to 
eral  Board  of  Relief  Cociety  is  an-  the  wards  in  the  stake.  Upon  re- 
nounced. Leads  for  Class  Leaders  ceipt  of  these  booklets,  stake  presi- 
is  a  booklet  designed  and  written  to  dents  are  requested  to  notify  ward 
aid  the  Relief  Society  class  leaders  officers  and  class  leaders  as  to  their 
in  their  preparation  and  presentation  availability.  A  nominal  charge  will 
of  the  lessons  of  the  Society.  This  be  made  for  the  book  to  cover  costs 
booklet  will  be  ready  for  use  some  of  printing  and  mailing. 
flo  oLesson    uiaterial  to  oe  [fiuvlishea  for  Sfourtk 
cJuesaay  in   'Jjecemoer 
MO  lesson  material  is  published  in  this  issue  of  the  Magazine  for  the 
fourth  Tuesday  in  December.    As  this  Tuesday  falls  on  December  22, 
it  is  contemplated  by  the  General  Board  that  wards  may  prefer  to  dispense 
with  the  ward  meeting  or  to  plan  their  own  activity  for  that  day. 
Visiting  cJeacning  [Requiring  c/ransportation  (facilities 
TN  a  bulletin  issued  February  19,  teachers  depend  on  transportation 
1942,  to  all  stake,  ward,  and  mis-  by  automobile,  to  be  effective  during 
o-^    r>  T  £  c     -  i.  -J     ..         1  the  period  while  there  is  limitation 
sion  Relief  Society  presidents,  a  plan  ^^  automobile  travel.     In  some  in- 
was  presented  with  respect  to  visit-     stances  this  plan  has  been  construed 
ing    teaching    in    areas    where   the     to  mean  that  the  General  Board  dis- 
Page  640

NOTES  TO  THE  FIELD  641 
approves  of  the  visiting  teachers  us-  mobiles  for  visiting  teaching  or  other 
ing  automobile  transportation,  where  Relief  Society  purposes,  and  there 
available.    The  General  Board  has  fore  released  the  alternate  plan  which 
no  jurisdiction  over  the  automobiles  ^.^^  in  the  bulletin  of  February 
owned  by  mdividuals,  and  the  owners  ^^^  ^^  ^^^  ^^^^^             ^^^^.^^  ^^ 
have  the  nght  to  use  them  for  what-  7        ....       ,     ,        i     •          1. 
.1        J    •       •    1    J-  cietv  visitme  teachers  havme;  auto- 
ever  purpose  they  desire,  mcludmg  ^iciy  vimuh^  l^                   .^  ,,    . 
visiting    teaching.      The    General  mobiles  available  to  them  for  their 
Board  wishes  it  clearly  understood  use  are  not  prohibited  by  the  Relief 
that  the  Relief  Society  does  not  re-  Society  from  using  them  for  visiting 
quire  individuals  to  use  their  auto-  teaching  if  they  desire  to  do  so. 
information   LUesirea  [Regarding  [Persons  100    LJears 
of  J\ge  or  (cyver 
npHE  Old  Folks'  Central  Commit-  If  a  photograph  is  available,  the 
tee  is  building  up  a  register  of  all  committee  would  appreciate  having 
persons.  Latter-day  Saint  and  non-  it  included. 
Latter-day  Saint,  in  Utah  or  else- 
where who  are  100  years  of  age  or  Information  should  be  mailed  to: 
over.     Information  regarding  such 
persons  will  be  greatly  appreciated.  LeGrand  Richards,  Chairman, 
It  is  desired  that  the  information  in-  Old  Folks'  Central  Committee, 
elude  the  following:  Presiding  Bishop's  Office, 
r\  .         ■!    1         £  w  -u  40  North  Main, 
Date  and  place  or  birth  ^ 
Present  place  of  residence  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 
          ^A^    . 
EDITORIAL 
(Continued  from  page  639)  day  Saint  women — both  practical 
this  great  Society.  Just  as  Relief  So-  and  spiritual.  Through  resourceful- 
ciety  women  of  that  day  proved  ness,  conscientious  effort,  wise  plan- 
equal  to  their  tasks,  so  too  will  the  ning,  through  counseling  with  bish- 
women  of  today.  The  Society  has  ops  and  fellow  officers,  and  through 
never  retrogressed  nor  stood  still,  reliance  upon  the  Lord,  high  stand- 
but  has  gone  steadily  forward,  solv-  ards  may  still  be  maintained  in  spite 
ing  problems,  surmounting  obstacles,  of  obstacles.  With  the  spirit  of  the 
and  serving  humanity.  The  history  Gospel  permeating  all  that  is  done, 
of  the  coming  year,  like  the  history  Relief  Society  will  continue  to  be  a 
of  the  past  century,  will  be  one  of  sustaining  influence  in  the  lives  of 
struggle,  but  it  will  also  be  one  of  its  members,  and  the  new  season  will 
mastery.  offer  rewards  commensurate  to  the 
effort  put  forth. 
The  Relief  Society  program  of  to-  The  coming  season  should  be  one 
day  has  been  planned  with  a  view  to  of  real  service  and  genuine  satisfac- 
nieeting  the  present  needs  of  Latter-  tion.— B.  S.  S.

Wartime  Price  Control 
Note:  The  following  information  with  respect  to  price  control,  obtained  from  H. 
Grant  Ivins,  Stake  Director,  Office  of  Price  Administration,  will  be  found  of  interest  to 
Relief  Society  women. 
WITH  the  express  aim  of  halt- 
ing the  mounting  cost  of  liv- 
ing and  preventing  inflation, 
the  Office  of  Price  Administration, 
on  April  28,  announced  the  general 
maximum  price  regulation  which, 
with  few  exceptions,  established 
maximum  prices  at  the  highest  lev- 
els charged  for  the  articles  in 
March  1942. 
The  regulation  is  comparatively 
simple  in  operation  and  has  only 
three  basic  provisions:  first,  the 
merchant  cannot  charge  more  for 
an  article  or  service  than  the  highest 
price  charged  by  that  particular 
store  in  March  of  this  year;  second, 
he  must  post  in  a  conspicuous  place 
where  the  goods  are  displayed,  his 
ceiling  prices  on  a  list  of  commonly 
used  ''cost-of-living"  items;  third,  he 
must  prepare  a  price  book  listing  the 
ceiling  price  on  every  item  in  his 
store,  which  must  be  kept  available 
for  any  official  or  customer  who 
wishes  to  see  it. 
These  basic  provisions  make  it 
easy  for  the  customer  to  determine 
the  maximum  price  on  any  item,  and 
yet  do  not  place  any  extraordinary 
burden  on  the  seller. 
A  number  of  important  goods  and 
services  are  not  covered  by  the  price- 
freezing  order.  Chief  among  these 
are  raw  and  unprocessed  farm  com- 
modities which  are  exempt  by  law 
from  any  price  control  until  they 
reach  no  percent  of  parity,  the  aver- 
age price  from  1919  to  1929,  or  the 
price  on  October  1  or  December  1 5, 
1941,  whichever  of  the  four  alterna- 
tives is  highest.  Pork,  beef,  veal, 
lamb,  and  mutton  are  all  under 
price  ceilings,  however,  as  are  most 
processed  agricultural  commodities. 
Important  among  agricultural  items 
not  included  are  eggs,  poultry,  but- 
ter, cheese,  canned  milk  (fresh  milk, 
cream,  and  ice  cream  are  price  con- 
trolled), ordinary  flour,  fresh  fruits 
and  vegetables,  fresh  fish  and  game, 
nuts,  dried  prunes,  and  beans.  The 
cost-of-living  items  which  are  not 
only  price-controlled,  but  on  which 
ceiling  prices  must  be  posted,  in- 
clude commonly  used  clothing, 
foods,  drugs,  and  household  furn- 
ishings. 
The  question  is  often  asked, 
"What  can  I  do  as  an  ordinary  citi- 
zen—as a  consumer— to  help  in  this 
vital  price  control  program?"  First, 
it  is  necessary  to  become  thoroughly 
familiar  with  the  provisions  of  the 
price  control  program  and  make  sure 
you  are  not  an  unknowing  partici- 
pant in  a  violation  by  buying  above 
the  ceiling  price.  As  in  all  measures 
affecting  a  great  share  of  the  public, 
knowledge  and  cooperation  of  the 
public  are  necessary  for  their  suc- 
cess. 
If  you  have  reason  to  believe  your 
retailer  is  violating  the  price  ceiling, 
ask  him  about  it.  If  you  still  feel 
that  the  merchant  is  selling  above 
his  legal  maximum  after  talking  it 
{Concluded  on  page  647) 
Page  642