[Vol29 | October 1942 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Social ScienceThe]

social science lessons. ) Lesson 3
Zina D. Huntington Young Third Relief Society President (Tuesday, January 26, 1943) O Mormon woman has been more beloved than Zina D. Huntington Young, familiarly known throughout the Church as "Aunt Zina," a gentle, soft-spoken person, gifted with great faith and spiritual power. She was born of distinguished ancestry, January 21, 1821, in Watertown, New York. At fourteen she was baptized into the Church, and the same year received the gift of tongues. -In Kirtland the gift of interpretation of tongues came to her. She never studied a foreign language, yet she rendered hymns and prayers given in tongues in the most musical and beautiful of poetic English. She also spoke with ease and eloquence, LESSON DEPARTMENT and was noted for the beautiful and moving prayers she uttered. In the ' sickroom, where she exercised her faith as well as her unusual ability to nurse, her presence was a benediction, After joining the Church, the Huntington family moved to Kirtland, Ohio, thence to Far West, Missouri, from there to Quincy, Illinois, and then in 1839 to Nauvoo, Illinois. In each place they suffered the usual persecutions of the Saints. In Nauvoo, father, mother, Zina, and her brother Oliver, were all prostrate with chills and fever.
There was only twelve-year-old John to take care of them.
Hundreds of others were lying ill in tents and wagons. Emma Smith and the Prophet Joseph himself came to render assistance to the Huntingtons, and later sent their foster daughter to help them. Zina's mother died, and only two of the family were able to attend the burial. Of the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum Smith, Zina wrote: "My pen _ cannot utter my grief.... But after a while a change came, as though the released spirits of the departed (the Prophet and the Patriarch) sought to comfort us in that hour of dreadful bereavement." In her journal she described another important historical event: "When the Twelve teturned, the mantle of Joseph fell upon Brigham. When I approached the stand, President Young was speaking. It was the voice of Joseph Smith, not that of Brigham Young. His very person was changed.... All witnessed the transfiguration...." In Nauvoo, Zina became a member of the Relief Society.
With her tenderness and gentle touch, she 739 soothed the sick.
With her gift of understanding and ability to enter into the feelings of others with sympathy and delicacy, she comforted the distressed.
Even before the organization of Relief Society, Zina was familiar with the ways of charity, for she had often driven around Kirtland with her mother, who, self-appointed, looked up the needy and suffering and asked the more prosperous for what the poor, required, then distributed what she received.
While quite young, Zina Huntington married Henry Jacobs and bore him two sons, Zebulon and Chariton. In February 1846, she left Nauvoo and went to Mount Pisgah where so many people were dying that it was almost impossible to bury them. For lack of coffins, many were laid away in their burial clothes, with only split logs at the bottom of the graves and brush at the sides. Own father died here, and she was left alone with her small sons. Mr.
Jacobs had gone East rather than West, and did not plan to return.
Zina went on to Winter Quarters. Brigham Young and his company left for the West. The women remaining behind felt deep anxiety because of wolves and Indians and other threats, and they held frequent prayer meetings and exerted all their faith for the pioneer band. Here Zina, with her rare spiritual gifts and her ability to inspire or revive faith in the hearts of others, was a great help. "Aunt Zina" married Brigham Young, and in Utah lived first in the primitive "log row" on his estate, then, later, in the Lion House. She bore him one child, Zina, but she took into her pleasant apartment her husband's four children by Mrs. Zina's - 740
Clarissa Chase Young and reared them as her own with tender affection. She kept the home atmosphere pleasant and serene.
Like other pioneer women, "Aunt Zina" made her own candles, soap, molasses; dried her fruits; spun, knitted, dyed and wove cloth, and made clothing. She was an early riser and a quiet, efficient worker who --accomplished much. She took the course in nursing and midwifery taught by Dr. Willard Richards in the very early days of Deseret, and went often to the sick, taking not only her practical knowledge, but likewise her gifts of faith and healing. She seemed to understand the natures and dispositions of her patients, as well as their symptoms, so thoroughly that it is said doctors frequently consulted her regarding those who were ill.
Because of her wisdom and sympathy and kindly spirit, she was often referred to as "Zina the Comforter." Sister Young was also an.
Able teacher. She taught pioneer children in school, and for more than forty years was a teacher in Sunday School, and after its organization she worked in Primary. She was a friend to the poor in all ways; no one could give alms more graciously, "Charity never faileth,"" was her watch-word, and this meant charity of the spirit as well as of the purse. ROM the first, "Aunt Zina" assisted Sister Eliza R.
Snow in Relief Society work in Utah, and became her first counselor when Sister Snow was made president. 'Together they traveled by stagecoach, buckboard, or carriage, over frozen wastes or desert sands, to organize new branches of Relief Society or Prima  ty. In Southern Utah they traveled over a thousand miles by carriage and wagon, going to remote hamlets and villages through disagreeable country where, as sister Snow said, "the curse had not begun to be taken off."
Sometimes they had to camp overnight in lonely and dangerous places. Once Sister Snow herself drove twenty-six miles over a fearful toad.
Sometimes they held three meetings a day.
However fatigued they might be, these two inspired women carried with them a faith and an uplifting influence.
That transcended all bodily ills. The Saints, struggling against discouragements and bitter hardships in those faraway places, never forget their visits. In those meetings "Aunt Zina" frequently testified of the wonderful appearance and influence of the Prophet Joseph when he had spoken to the Relief Society members in Nauvoo of the destiny and power of women.