[Vol29 | October 1942 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Editorial | Title: The Development Leaders]
"The  stake  board  class  leaders 
mail  their  lesson  outlines  each 
month  with  an  enclosed  self-ad- 
dressed postcard  for  a  return  report 
of  ward  class  work;  these  cards  are 
discussed  in  our  monthly  board 
meetings."

Attention — Class  Leaders 
ANNOUNCING: 
LEADS  FOR  CLASS  LEADERS,  a  book  which  is  now  in 
preparation  will  be  issued  by  the  General  Board  of  Relief  Society 
for  stake  and  ward  Relief  Society  class  leaders,  to  assist  them  in 
studying  and  teaching  more  effectively.  The  book  will  be  ready  for 
use  sometime  during  this  fall,  1942. 
As  soon  as  the  book,  LEADS  FOR  CLASS  LEADERS, 
comes  from  the  press  a  limited  supply  will  be  sent  to  Relief  Society 
stake  presidents  to  be  distributed  by  them.  A  nominal  charge  will 
be  made  to  cover  the  cost  of  printing  and  mailing.  Stake  and  ward 
class  leaders  should  inquire  about  the  book  and  place  orders  with 
their  respective  Relief  Society  stake  presidents. 
For  Social  Science  Class  Leaders 
Enrichment  Material  for  1942-43  Lessons  on  "What  'America'  Means" 
Two  excellent  pamphlets  which 
may  be  obtained  free  of  charge: 
1.  "Americans  All" 
2.  ''Walk   Proudly  Here,  Americans" 
Obtainable  by  writing  Raymond 
Pitcairn,  1616  Walnut  St.,  Phila- 
delphia, Pennsylvania. 
Two  enlightening  articles: 
1.  "How  to  Learn  the  Words  of  the 
Star  Spangled  Banner,"  by  Everett 
Cummings 
Published  in  Good  Housekeeping 
Magazine,  April  1942,  p.  17. 
2.  "Meet  a  Great  American — the  Bell," 
by  Donald  C.  Peattie 
Published  in  Reader's  Digest,  Au- 
gust 1942,  p.  29. 
Two  interesting  stones: 
1.  "The  Moment  of  Mary  McCoy,"  by 
Stuart  Kinzie 
Published  in  Good  Housekeeping 
Magazine,  August  1942,  p.  15. 
2.  "Sleep  Not,  My  Country,"  by  Mar- 
tha Cheavens 
Published  in  Good  Housekeeping 
Magazine,  June  1942,  p.  39. 
Firm  handling  out-of-date  publi- 
cations: 
Franklin  Square  Agency,  49  East  33rd 
St.,  New  York  City,  New  York. 
Class  leaders  can  obtain  back  numbers 
of  national  magazines  from  this  firm. 
Page  655

LESSON 
DEPARTMENT 
cJheolog^  and  cJestimony 
Articles  of  Faith,  By  James  E.  Talmage 
Lesson  ii 
The  Church  and  Its  Plan  of  Organization 
(Tuesday,  December  i,  1942) 
Condensation  of  Chapter  XI  of  Articles  of  Faith,  by  Talmage 
(This  condensation  is  placed  in  the  Magazine  in  the  hope  that  it  will  result  in 
more  class  members  familiarizing  themselves  with  the  lesson.) 
The  Primitive  Church 
When  Christ  established  His 
church  upon  the  earth,  he  appointed 
all  the  officers  necessary  for  the  car- 
rying out  of  his  Father's  purposes. 
Each  appointee  was  divinely  com- 
missioned with  authority  to  officiate 
in  the  ordinances  of  his  calling. 
Thus  were  given  unto  the  Church, 
apostles,  prophets,  evangelists,  pas- 
tors (Eph.  4:11),  high  priests 
(Heb.  5:1-5),  seventies  (Luke  10:1- 
11),  elders  (Acts  14:23;  15:6;  I  Pe- 
ter 5:1),  bishops  (I  Tim.  3:1;  Titus 
1:7),  priests  (Rev.  1:6),  teachers 
(Acts  13:1),  and  deacons  (I  Tim. 
3:8-12). 
Apostasy  from  the  Primitive  Church 
Scarcely  had  Christ  organized  His 
church  before  the  powers  of  dark- 
ness descended  upon  it.    This  tide 
of  opposition  soon  enveloped  every 
known  follower  of  the  Savior.  Chris- 
tians were  tortured  and  killed  by  the 
unbelievers  until  the  time  of  Con- 
stantine  in  the  fourth  century.  Under 
his  patronage,  Christianity  became 
the  religion  of  State,  but  the  finer 
attributes  of  the  original  Church 
were  missing.  Pagan  forms  and  be- 
liefs had  crept  in,  and  offices  were 
sought  by  those  who  wished  to  bene- 
fit themselves  financially  and  politi- 
cally. Ordinances  were  changed  and 
perverted.  In  very  deed,  darkness 
covered  the  earth. 
This  Great  Apostasy  Foretold 
The    prophets    of    old    uttered 
solemn    warnings,    of    approaching 
Page  656

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
657 
dangers.  In  Isaiah  24:5  we  read: 
'The  earth  also  is  defiled  under  the 
inhabitants  thereof;  because  they 
have  transgressed  the  laws,  changed 
the  ordinance,  broken  the  everlasting 
covenant." 
Restoration  oi  the  Church 
The  Lord  in  His  mercy  provided 
for  the  reestablishment  of  His 
Church  in  the  last  days,  and  for  the 
last  time.  This  restoration  was  ef- 
fected by  the  Lord  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Thus,  the 
Church  has  been  again  organized 
with  all  its  former  completeness. 
PLAN  OF  GOVERNMENT  IN  THE 
RESTORED  CHURCH 
Oideis  and  Officers  in 
the  Piiestliood 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  recognizes  two 
separate  orders  of  the  Priesthood. 
The  lesser  is  called  the  "Aaronic" 
and  the  greater  is  the  "Melchizedek" 
order. 
Deacons,  teachers,  and  priests  are 
the  offices  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood. 
In  the  Melchizedek  order  are  elders, 
seventies  and  high  priests.  Apostles, 
patriarchs,  and  bishops  also  come 
under  this  heading.  Each  of  the 
above  offices  have  definite  functions 
and  requirements,  all  of  which  are 
explained  in  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants. 
LESSON  PLAN 
Article  6— "We  believe  in  the  same  organization  that  existed  in  the  Primi- 
tive Church,  viz.,  apostles,  prophets,  pastors,  teachers,  evangelists,  etc." 
Lesson  Aim:  To  show  that  the  restored  Church  is  an  organization  com- 
posed of  offices  and  officers  comparable  to  the  Primitive  Church,  and  that 
such  an  organization  provides  its  members  with  opportunities  for  mental 
and  spiritual  growth. 
Suggested  Material  Outline 
I.  The  Church 
A.  Definition  and  characteristics  of  the  true  Church. 
B.  The  Primitive  Church. 
C.  Apostasy  from  Primitive  Church. 
D.  Restoration  of  the  Church  to  earth  in  latter  days. 
II.  Plan  of  Government  in  the  Church. 
A.  Aaronic  Priesthood. 
B.  Melchizedek  Priesthood. 
C.  Authority  of  presiding  quorums  in  Priesthood. 
III.  How  the  Church  De^•elops  its  Members 
A.  The  Priesthood. 
B.  Sacrament  and  Testimony  Meetings. 
C.  Church  Auxiliaries.

^58 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  \^4l 
(In  the  foregoing  section,  the  various  activities  which  are  provided  for  Church  mem- 
bers should  be  enumerated  and  commented  upon:  speaking,  teaching,  singing,  planning, 
organizing,  financing,  equipping,  writing,  record  keeping,  counseling,  missionary  service, 
proselyting,  traveling. ) 
Suggested  Method  Outline 
Round-Table  Discussion 
The  class  leader  may  select  a  num- 
ber of  women  to  take  part  in  this 
discussion  group.  It  is  preferable  to 
have  women  who  have  had  a  wide 
diversity  of  background,  whose  ages 
vary,  and  who  possess  fluency  of  ex- 
pression. Also,  it  might  be  well  to 
choose,  as  some  of  the  group,  women 
who  have  worked  in  the  various 
Church  auxiliaries. 
Both  the  leader  and  the  group 
should  maintain  the  inquirer's  atti- 
tude throughout.  The  leader  or 
chairman  should  not  be  seated  on  a 
platform  or  in  any  position  that  in- 
dicates a  teacher-pupil  relationship. 
The  best  arrangement  is  for  the 
group  to  sit  around  a  table  where 
each  may  see  the  other. 
To  start  the  discussion  the  leader 
might  try  the  experiment  of  suggest- 
ing that  each  person  introduce  her- 
self and  give  something  of  her  back- 
ground. The  leader  then  assumes 
the  responsibility  of  starting  the  dis- 
cussion and  keeping  it  going.  The 
leader  should  have  thought  through 
the  subject  and  should  have  at  least 
a  tentative  plan  for  proceeding.  The 
above  Suggested  Material  Outline 
could  well  be  followed,  and  the 
leader  would  formulate  her  own  sal- 
ient questions  based  on  the  outline. 
The  group  should  be  at  least  ac- 
quainted with  Chapter  2  of  the  Ar- 
ticles oi  Faith,  by  Talmage.     The 
leader  should  not  superimpose  her 
ideas  upon  the  group,  but  she  should 
give  them  a  sense  of  direction  with 
her  comments  and  questions.  If  the 
leader  is  questioned  and  the  discus- 
sion is  on  the  verge  of  assuming  the 
teacher-pupil  relationship,  it  is  ex- 
cellent technique  to  turn  a  question 
back  to  the  questioner  or  to  another 
person  in  the  group.  It  is  well  to  re- 
member that  a  discussion  is  never  a 
complete  success  unless  most  of  the 
people  in  the  group  eventually  inject 
their  thoughts. 
The  leader  has  a  significant  task 
in  reviewing  once  or  twice  during  the 
discussion  **the  points  made,  the 
questions  overlooked,  the  informa- 
tion needed,  and  the  existing  differ- 
ences of  opinion."  She  should  also 
stop  the  discussion  while  the  group 
is  still  interested  and  should  sum- 
marize just  what  has  been  accom- 
plished and  what  still  remains  un- 
answered. 
Class  leaders  are  urged  to  try  this 
method  even  though  it  is  new  to 
them.  It  will  lend  variety  and  in- 
terest to  the  educational  work  of  this 
department,  and  it  is  one  of  the 
newer  techniques  in  teaching  adults. 
Class  leaders  may  feel  incapable  of 
assuming  the  leadership  of  the 
round-table  discussion  group,  but  af- 
ter a  few  attempts  they  will  be  quick 
to  see  the  advantages  of  such  a 
method.