[Vol29 | October 1942 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: In RetrospectChapter X Lyman]

Annie Wells ——_— _ President Amy Brown Lyman honor to pay tribute to Annie Wells Cannon, for I regard her as one of the most outstanding women of our Church and our state. She was also my life-long friend.
With such parents as Daniel H. Wells, one of the founders of this state and a counselor to Brigham Young, and Emmeline B. Wells, fifth general president of Relief Society, pioneer leader, humanitarian, and author, Sister Cannon had a rich background and a noble heritage; but she herself was specially endowed.
Hers were rare gifts of the spirit, rare gifts of the mind, and rare gifts of the heart. Sister Cannon was essentially a a Church woman, genuinely religious, profoundly devout.
Always she was true to her faith and true to her convictions.
Life was her testimony of the: Restored Gospel of the Master and of the mission of Joseph Smith. This, her abiding testimony, was the foundation and basis of her religious philosophy. It was largely this unfaltering faith and this knowledge which helped her to meet, and to meet calmly, the various vicissitudes of life. She was a student of the scriptures and she was well versed in both Church history and Church procedure. 'This unusual woman had a brilliant and active mind and great mental capacity. All her life she was a | DEEM it a privilege and a great student and a learner. She was quick to learn, and she seemed to be able Page 676
The guiding light of her to retain most of what she read and heard. Her memory was remarkable. She was a veritable bureau of information, and she will be greatly missed by the many who went constantly to her for information. Sister Cannon was tender of heart and sympathetic. To those who were discouraged and low in spirit, she was a real comforter. As the Relief Society president of her stake, she took a personal interest in the welfare work, and she personally spent much time doing active service among the sick and needy. In connection with this work, she established a large maternity cabinet thoroughly fitted out with medical supplies and other useful articles.
This was the first cabinet of the kind used in the Relief Society, and furnished a pattern which was adopted in other stakes.
This is still housed in the Pioneer Stake hall. She also established in this building the first Relief Society stake library in the Church. How appropriate that her funeral services should be held in this stakehouse, the headquarters of her official work—here where she was such a familiar figure in the pulpit. Sister Cannon was a strong and dependable character and had the courage of her convictions. She was never afraid to speak her mind, and we used to feel that she was usually right. Annie Wells Cannon was a dutiful daughter, a faithful wife, and a devoted mother of twelve children, eleven of whom survive her. The love and admiration of Sister Cannon ANNIE WELLS CANNON for her mother was remarkable. It amounted almost to worship.
Often in discussing her mother's work, I have remarked to her that she herself was as able in many respects as was her mother, and that in some respects she excelled her mother, that the chief difference was a difference in opportunity. She was always disturbed by such comments, and would almost resent them. Sister Cannon was a gifted writer of both prose and poetry. For fifteen years she was assistant editor of the Woman's Exponent, which was edited for forty years by her mother, Emmeline B. Wells. Sister Cannon contributed articles often to our local magazines and newspapers, and her page, "Happenings," as it appeared in the Relief Society Magazine has been one of the most popular departments in the periodical. Her last installment appears in the September issue of the Magazine.
When the last copy came into the office, we knew that she was tired since "only part of it was in her own handwrit-. Ing. The rest she had dictated to a daughter. To her husband in his.
Literary work as editor of the Deseret News and - other Church publications, she was "a real asset. ANNIE CANNON began _ her public service sixty-eight years ago when she was but fourteen years of age, by acting as a visiting teacher in the Relief Society. We can see her in our minds' eye as she went about with a senior worker from house to house carrying a_ basket which held the contributions that in those days were made mostly "in kind."
677 ANNIE WELLS CANNON Former Member of Relief Society General Board She later held various positions in both ward and stake. For sixteen years she was president of the Relief Society of Pioneer Stake, and for twenty-eight years she served on the General Board, where she was an invaluable member.
Here she worked on important committees, attended stake and national conventions, and traveled extensively in the stakes and wards of the Church. In our Board, she was not excelled as a committee chairman or a committee member. Sister Cannon was especially interested in the Prize Poem Contest which was established by the General Board in 1923. It was at her suggestion that the Board, in this its centennial year (1942), published a volume containing these prize poems and other selected poems written by Mormon women.
This volume contains 328 poems and is titled Our 678
Legacy—Relief Society Centennial Anthology of Verse. 'To Sister Cannon was given the responsibility of choosing, compiling, and helping to arrange these poems, in which task she was assisted by a committee of the Board.
This work was necessarily trying and taxing, but it gave her supreme joy and satisfaction because of her intense interest in the project. And all this she accomplished in her eighty-second year.
This excellent volume contains a number of her own poems and also a lovely portrait of her own dear self. It will ever be a monument to her - industry, her talent, and her outstanding ability.
Next to her family, Sister Cannon loved Relief Society, and Relief Society loved her and was greatly entiched by her service. In addition to her Church work, Mrs.
Cannon was active in many phases of civic and community welfare. She was a member of the House of Representatives in the 1913 session of the Utah State Legislature, when she gave hearty support to the Dependent Mothers' Pension Bill, and the bill providing for equal guardianship of children, both of which were passed at this session. She was a devotee of women, and a consistent champion of their rights —among them the right to vote, and the right to hold office. She took an active part in the national woman suffrage movement. She was a patriot of the highest order, a student of political science,  and took an active part in politics. She was a strong believer in party politics. She greatly valued her citizenship and never failed to vote. She was a charter member of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers and a past president; a charter member of the Utah Woman's Press Club; a.
Member of the Utah Order of Women Legislators; the first president of the Utah War Mothers, and the president of the Service Star Legion for a period of two years.
Many years ago she helped to organize, under the direction of Clara Barton, the first Red Cross Chapter in Utah, and during World War I, she was chairman of the canteen service for Utah. Mrs.
Cannon was appointed by President Hoover (then Secretary of Commerce) chairman for Utah of the European Relief Council, and under her able direction a.
Substantial sum of money was raised for relief work in the Balkan States. She was for many years a director of the Salt Lake City Library Board, and chairman of the Children's Department. ° She was chosen as one of the seven outstanding women of the state by the Utah Federation of Women's Clubs in 1934, the first year the organization made such a selection. In all her public work Mrs.
Cannon has given volunteer service. The public is certainly indebted to her, as it is to any individual who contributes so much time and talent to the public welfare without financial remuneration. Editor's note: Annie Wells Cannon died at her home in Salt Lake City, Wednesday, September 2, 1942. The above address was given by President Amy Brown ag at the funeral services of Sister Cannon held in is Pioneer Stake hall, Salt Lake City, Saturday, September 5, 1942. The First Line of Defense— The Home Helen Spencer Williams First Counselor, General Presidency of Y. W. M. I. A. Of December 7, as beds were being made and dinners prepared, as Sunday "bests" were being donned for church, over the radio came the never-to-be-forgotten news of war. The first impact of that terrifying message produced hysterical concern for the present, yet dulled for the moment the realization of what families would be facing in the months and years to come.
Little did mothers and fathers sense how changed their households would become, what new personalities their children would assume, or what they or their carefree sons and daughters would be called upon to meet. The news was announced, and in those first hours of shock only the fact that our country had been attacked seemed important.
Those first horrible hours and days have passed, and as the weeks have gone into months, we have learned what war means— good-byes have been said and are being said to our sons, to our husbands, and to our sweethearts.
Civilians have been transplanted into a military way of life.
Anxious hours have been spent watching for the mailman.
Hearts have stood still as wires have been received containing sad or perhaps hopeful news. » The war is in every home, town, and state.
During these last ten months we have learned somehow to live in a war-torn era.
Parents know now that expressed bitterness and resentment ()* that quiet Sunday morning against what is, cannot and will not keep families together, and that families must somehow, in spite of present conditions, live in a state of normalcy.
With the changes which have been brought about in family life, mothers have been called upon to assume a more important role than ever before.
With serenity of spirit, control of emotions, stoical bearing, and a spiritual outlook, a new appreciation of family and home life will grow. Girls, boys, young women, and young men, and even mature married sons and daughters are needing guidance and understanding as they have never needed it before in the history of this generation, and parents must be constantly present and ready to provide these. The war of a quarter of a century ago brought its problems and its heartbreaks, its aftermath of reconstruction that cannot be forgotten.
From it we have learned one blessed lesson—that life does go on, that war does end and peace come.
Those who met that other conflict with firmness of spirit, with faith in God, with firm adherence to ideals, were able to take up the threads of life and to weave again a pattern of life and happiness. E are now in the very midst of the turmoil of this present conflict.
Only if mothers can and will wisely meet these new situations, and if they will help their sons and daughters to meet the new situaPage 679 680 tions in which they find themselves, can there ever be any hope of solution to our present vital problems. Is it not imperative that mothers make homemaking their paramount business? In so many ways mother is needed in the home, especially now, to guard against too many war radio programs being turned on; to see that little ones play with toys other than guns, airplanes, tanks and bayonets; to safeguard children against phone calls from strangers; to give words of comfort and advice at just the right moment; in short, to keep home life in normal balance. No greater accomplishment could be credited to a mother and father than to keep a family reacting normally under the stress of these difficult times. 'To do this takes intelligence, time, patience, and unbounded faith. It means sticking to and on the job» constantly. It is doing one's duty to.
Church and community, for no country, church, or community is any better or more sound than are its homes and families. } The girl of thirteen, fourteen, and up through those early adolescent years, finds that present-day situations involve her in a complexity of emotions quite unheard of before. She feels grownup and important. A well-traveled man visiting in a midwestern city made the statement that he was aghast at the number of very young girls he saw on the streets all hours of the day and night unaccompanied by an adult. "Why do their mothers permit it?" he asked. It was in this same city that thousands of Uncle Sam's boys were stationed for training and recruiting, making it particularly important that the girls not roam the streets, for their. Own - streets. ~  sake, and also for the sake of the boys.
Surely a situation of this kind can be remedied if mothers will be companions to their daughters, if they will know where their girls are and what they are doing every moment of the twenty-four hours. In towns and cities, in view of the war situation, civic-minded persons should take it upon themselves to see that the curfew law is rigidly enforced for the protection of both boys and girls.
Newspapers might well print editorials to influence parents to keep their children home, urging them to make home the kind of place where children want to be.
Influential speakers might profitably talk on the subject in churches, cantonments, and schools. It is very important for mothers to be at home when their adolescent girls arrive from school, to make home life so inviting, and themselves so companionable and pleasant that girls will not want to roam the True there is an excitement in the air which stimulates these children who are just budding into womanhood. It makes them want to dress _ up and feel they are a part of this great world drama that is being played. But girls should not be allowed to roam the streets alone no matter how large or small the community in which they live. If only time could swing backward and retrieve some of the old customs prevalent in grandmother's day—that children should not be seen without their elders nor be allowed to go to social functions without chaperons— 'a bit old-fashioned perhaps, but certainly a safeguard. _ There is the unpopular girl of late THE FIRST LINE OF DEFENSE adolescent period who looks upon this present situation as her chance for attention from the opposite sex. She may have always been a square peg in a round hole, but now boys by the hundreds are thronging the community in which she lives—lonely boys away from home and their loved ones, boys who welcome the companionship and company of a girl, and yet who are not always too particular as to how they meet her.
This is pethaps the reason why we see so many older girls going about unattended, with the light of invitation in their eyes and a welcoming smile for companionship on their lips. Do these girls need counsel and mothering more than they have ever needed it before?
Someone must take the time and be sufficiently interested in them to inform them that these soldier boys away from home, family, and friends do not as-a rule look upon a "pick-up" date with any degree of seriousness.
Many have left sweethearts back in their own home towns of whom they are truly fond. But in the loneliness of hours with nothing to do and no place to go they seek these girls who have let the influence of seeing so many boys around intoxicate them to the point of lack of judgment.
Could these girls be made to understand that it is far better for them to be in their own homes, to occupy themselves with wholesome activities, even though less exciting, they would be more secure and would be able to look toward years to come without any feeling of regret. Mothers, now more than ever, need to give companionship to this type of girl and with the real genius of mothering wrap a cloak of protection about her. 681
There are the girls left in small towns, particularly in rural districts, where every fellow of companionable age has been called away, where truly there is a dearth of young manhood.
These girls too often feel the call of the city, of work away from home.
Unless parents know where a young girl is going and the situation she will meet there, they should keep her home at all costs. A young woman from a small city told of her second year in nurses' training at a hospital where for the past six months there had not been one available male escort for any one of the nurses. "It is all right," she said, "to talk about our having recreation, swimming parties, sewing bees, reading groups, but at our age we want and long for the companionship of young men who like to do the same things we like to do." It is very easy for parents who have lived their lives, who have had their fun to say with very superior intelligence, "Well, they can just get along all right until this is all over." But this is a serious situation which requires consideration and good judgment if one would meet it well.
This particular nurse planned to go to a larger city for her vacation. In her own words, she said, "I'm going to dances, and I'm going to have dates. I'm old enough to watch my step, but also I'm old enough for the companionship of someone besides my nurse associates." It is unfair to place all the blame on the strange young men who have been placed in stranger towns if girls make themselves available to them without introductions.
Stand on the corner some Saturday night in any busy city where soldiers throng the 682 streets. 'There is often more invitation on the part of the girls than there is on the part of the boys.
Something fine should be instilled into every girl's heart and mind that will prevent her from speaking to or taking up with a boy of whom she knows nothing. IN more than one home during this wartime, mothers are being confronted with the question from college-age girls, "Why should I go back to school? Why should I complete my education? I have a chance to— take a job and earn more money than father is earning. Why shouldn't I doit?
What good does education do any way?
There is no chance for a future, for marriage, or a home. Why shouldn't I take life as I find it?"
What reasoning and what good judgment parents must extend to their girls who make these queries! An education is something that can never be taken from a person, Jet war and depressions happen, or come what may, it is priceless.
Several months of big salary may mean new clothes and an addition of material things which overnight may be lost, but education and the influence of school environment will endure forever.
Parents should urge their daughters to go on with their schooling if possible, and to continue a normal pattern of life insofar as they are able in spite of the lack of normalcy which is everywhere surrounding them. In the very study of and concentration upon subjects, which will always be vital, will come a sense of security and an anchoring to fundamental truths.
Also into this present-day picture comes the character of the hurried  up wedding, the bride who in all the ecstasy of a few rushed days of furlough, marries and says good-by to her sweetheart husband.
Perhaps they had been planning for a long time to be married at some future date, but when the time for parting came, they decided it was foolish not to take their marriage vows.
Goodbyes were said, and the gir] who has not had time enough to become oriented to married life, finds herself at the home of her parents feeling much as she did before the marriage ceremony.
Still loving gaiety, excitement, fun, she now realizes that all of the restrictions of marriage are placed upon her—she must not be seen escorted by any other young man, she must turn her thoughts away from dates and parties which require male partners, and she must adjust herself to a different type of entertainment.
Again the mother of the family must give her a sense of security, must awaken in her the sense of the responsibility of married life, must encourage her to write the kind of letters which will help her husband to withstand temptation, and which will encourage him to keep trust in his Heavenly Father. The hours must be filled with necessary things. So many of these little war brides find that they are to become mothers.
None of the joy or anticipation of that event to come should be minimized. A new baby in a home always brings a sweet spirit of unity and love if it is welcomed. One of the most serious problems which confronts this modern generation comes to the young married couple who have two or three children. The sudden allure of remunerative jobs presents itself, and THE FIRST LINE OF DEFENSE together the couple begin to talk of the possibilities of bringing someone into the home to tend the children so that both young father and mother may go to work.
They plan to save to buy the home they have wanted ever since they were married. 'They reason that with the golden wages being paid in defense plants, in munition factories, they will have more money than they could possibily use, more than they ever dreamed of having. 'They could easily save a large percentage of it for the rosy future that will some day come.
These young married folk are perhaps in their middle thirties.
They do not need anyone to balk their plans, or to sternly tell them they are wrong, for perhaps they are not, there being some situations in which it would be wise for both mother and father to avail themselves of what they call the golden opportunity. But they do need to have pointed out to them that the most important job they have to do is to see their little ones properly cared for, to keep home and family together.
Much of this money which they are intending to earn will be taken up in taxes.
Proper help is expensive and difficult to secure, and seldom is hired help as frugal as the mother of the family.
When all the answers are given, will there be so very much saved for that future, dreamed-of home?
Even if a nest egg is laid aside, is it worth the price paid? The cost might be the possible neglect of babies and their training in their preschool and earlyschool years when they so sorely need their own parents to direct them.
Every young wife should ask herself: "By working, will I be un- 683 dermining my husband's faith in himself and in his ability to take care of his family?" - We may even go into the older age bracket and look at the daughter who has been married twenty or twenty-five years, whose husband on that December 7, as he listened to the news, felt a sudden and urgent patriotic wave come over him. How many hundreds of families have seen father, husband, enlist. The wife who for a quarter of a century has leaned on and counted on her husband to help her rear her family, finds she is suddenly left to meet the problem of rearing adolescent boys and girls alone, of perhaps supplementing the financial income. She becomes bewildered, depressed and ofttimes even neurotic with her new responsibilities.
Family life suffers because mother is not equal to the new order of things.: These are times when every ounce of spirituality and intelligence must be brought into the picture.
These are times when a mother's role becomes more important than it has ever been before, whether mother be young, middle-aged, or in the grandmother class. A new spirit of understanding, of recognition of problems as they are, and of working out a solution to every one of them, is needed. If the need of the hour could be summed up in one sentence, it would be this: "As never before, stay close to your children; do not neglect them; give them understanding and love. Ifa mother is capable of doing only one job and doing it well, then it should be the job of mothering." Give Thanks For What?