[Vol29 | October 1942 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: General Presidents of Young]

In 1888, Sister Zina Young became general president of the Relief Society, and rapid advancement continued for the Society. In her life-: time she saw the organization grow from one branch to six hundred. In 1891, the Society affiliated with the National Council of Women, and in 1892 the Relief Society became an incorporated organization. Sister Eliza Snow once wrote in the Woman's Exponent that nothing was so important for Relief Society women as the building up of the kingdom of God. But practical es of pioneer life were a necespart of the building up of the tin iorns The people had to make themselves self-sustaining, and home industries were largely the means to that end. It was amazing what those LESSON DEPARTMENT already busy pioneer women did to start and encourage and make prosperous those same home industries.
Regarding grain saving, in which activity "Aunt Zina" was an ardent worker, President John 'Taylor said, "If you women can...
Succeed in saving wheat for an emergency, it will be one of the greatest acts of statesmanship that can occur." Like-.
Wise the women showed wonderful organizing, executive, and business.
Ability in their various other undertakings, such as straw manufacture, 'knitting of woolen goods, and many other enterprises. President Young was especially interested in the silk industry in Utah, for which great hopes were held, and in 1876 he set apart his wife Zina to supervise this work. She had charge of President Young's own large cocoonery and mulberry orchard, from which thousands of trees were transplanted throughout the state. As usual the Exponent was the means of communication. Sister Young asked everybody who had had experience in raising silkworms, to write the results of their experiments to the Woman's Exponent, so that all might reap the results of their experience. She also wrote instruci 741 tions and gave information and encouragement through the magazine. Zina Young attended National Suffrage Conventions in Omaha and Chicago, and in 1892 the World's Congress of Women, where she presided over a meeting conducted by the Relief Society, which was attended by many leading women of the Council. In the World Congress of Women Ministers, convened at the same time, she was invited to sit on the platform, and had the opportunity of explaining the Gospel to many influential and intelligent women.
When the Salt Lake Temple was dedicated, "Aunt Zina" was appointed to preside over the women. She died on August 28, 1901. References Handbook of Relief Society, p. 115 et passim Centenary of Relief Society, p. 11 et passim Relief Society Magazine, August 1915, P- 347; March 1921, pp. 130-136
Pictures Handbook of Relief Society, p. 108
Centenary of Relief Society, p. 11 et passim Relief Society Magazine, August 1915, p. 344; March 1921, p.