[Vol29 | October 1942 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Work-and-BusinessEliminate]

Interest in Missionary Work as an Expression of Faith (Tuesday, January 5, 1943) HE responsibility of spreading a knowledge of the Restored Gospel throughout the world was placed very early upon the members of the Church, "Lift up your voices and spare not," the Lord said in a revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith given in February 1831, when the Church was not yet one year old. "Call up- 728 on the nations to repent, both old and young, both bond and free, saying: Prepare yourselves for the great day of the Lord;" (Doctrine and Covenants 43:20) Thus we are told not only to preach the Gospel, but we are informed why we should do so, that everyone may have the opportunities of revealed truth. Anciently the disciples of Christ were required to "preach the Gospel to every creature." Early in this dispensation, the machinery was set up by means of which the Restored Gospel might be made known to mankind. It is the missionary system of the Church. When missionaries are called, they have the privilege of refusing if they choose. Rarely, though, does one refuse to heed a call to preach the Gospel. The missionary system has grown very gradually as the Church has increased in membership. During recent years more than two thousand men and women have been kept in the field at one time. Then there is the home mission. Within the stakes and wards of the Church, men and women are called to visit nonmembers of the Church with a view to interesting them in the message of the Gospel. This system is growing yearly, and brings thousands every year into the Church. There 'is also a vast auxiliary missionary work going on in our Church. It is the missionary work done on  
Temple Square, in Salt Lake City, Utah, which includes the Tabernacle Choir, the Tabernacle Organ, and the group of guides who show tourists around the grounds and who explain the Gospel to them. The various phases of missionary work carried on at Hill Cumorah are also interesting people in our religion and are opening the way for the regular missionaries. We can express our faith in the Gospel by aiding this missionary work whenever and wherever there is opportunity to do so. We can respond to any call that may be made of us to spread the Gospel at home or abroad. We can individually help to support those who may be called, by gifts of money or by encouraging them in some other manner. But the most effective way of expressing our faith in the Gospel is to live it, so that, as Jesus put it, "others, seeing our good works, may glorify our Father which is in heayen." If the Gospel makes us better and happier, others who observe this will be led to investigate it, with a view to making their lives better and happier. Discussion 1. In what very effective way are we all missionaries in our daily lives?. 2. Give some instances of the results of missionary work, either from your own experience or from the experience of others. 3. How did our missionary system affect the development of Western America? —-=— ll LESSON DEPARTMENT 729
Work-and-Business New-fashioned Thrift Lesson 3
Eliminate Household Wastes (Tuesday, December 8, 1942) "f ASTE not, want not."
This axiom taught and, of necessity, practiced by our grandmothers, can well be revived and used to advantage today.
There is no place for waste in wartime America. It is not only patriotic to save, but smart and thrifty as well. One need only to look around and see bulging garbage cans and boxes to realize the vast amount of waste there is.
Other visible evidence may be found in closets, attics, basements, garages, farmyards, barns, sheds, etc.
Hidden waste lurks in the refrigerator, in the kitchen sink, on the rack behind the door, under the rug, or in the grain bin.
Spoilage of food, due to bacteria, yeasts, and molds, and destruction of clothing and fabrics, due to moths and embedded dirt, alone cost the nation's families many hundreds of dollars each year.
Added to these are the work of ants, termites, mice, _ rats, rust, acids, water, fire, etc. To clear the deck and discard all the unused things does not mean to waste them.
What is outmoded in one household may be used advantageously in another. 'There are agencies in every community that can utilize almost every commodity. However, to save to the point of wasting is not good economy.
Unusable articles should be destroyed, otherwise they waste space as well as time and effort in handling. Old papers and rags, especially those used with oils or cleaning materials, may cause spontaneous combustion which in turn may cause great waste by fire.
They are best cared for in covered tin containers.
Speaking of tin, the small-sized, rustproof cans from which soup, vegetables, etc., have been used, can be reused for jelly, marmalade, or molds for various kinds of food.
Care should be taken when the can is opened the first time that no rough edges remain to injure the hands. In some places the Government has asked that all tin cans be saved for reconditioning. Out of control, water, so vitally needed in many places, may go to.
Waste or may be the means of causing extensive waste. The dripping of the water in leaky plumbing tends to wear away the seat and other parts of faucets and pipes to the extent that replacement becomes necessary.
Overflowing toilets and clogging of wash bowls cause damage and waste to floors, linoleum, wallpaper, etc., all of which could be avoided by minor precaution.
Since at the present time labor is at a premium, the housewife, once shown, can easily learn to replace old washers on faucets and mend leaks in hose or pipes. A piece of adhesive tape and a ten cent clamp can be used satisfactorily in an emergency.
Drain pipes and traps can be kept clean if at regular intervals they are flushed out with a hose attached to the hot water tap turned on full force.
Care should be taken in the use of acids, chemicals, or commercial preparations in cleaning plumbing fixtures; some of them mix readily with the grease and form soap which hardens and causes more trouble. The enamel finish on sinks, wash bowls, stoves, and refrigerators will be much marred if such things as lemon or grapefruit juice, Sani-Flush, fingernail polish, or paint remover are spilled on them.
Kerosene may remove dirt and waste without harm to plumbing fixtures, clothing, and other household articles. Oil stoves or kerosene lamps should never be refilled while lighted as serious waste of life and property have resulted from such careless action. A GOVERNMENT report shows that as high as 28 percent of the food bought by American families is wasted.
This large amount, lost - through ignorance or carelessness, could well feed many families. In order to prevent food spoilage, it is important to have the proper kind of storage or protection.
Most foods can be protected by these three general kinds of storage—dry, moistcool, and refrigerated. 'To economically and skillfully handle, prepare, and use foods is a challenge to any housewife. 'Too large, unpalatable, 'unattractive servings contribute to a high percent of waste. 'Two smaller servings are more appetizing as well as more economical. It is best not to plan to have too many leftovers, especially vegetables. But there are many ways of utilizing leftovers where necessary.
Small portions of vegetables or meats may be made into good salad or creamed dishes. Molded, cooked cereals, fried and served with syrup or fruit sauce make a nourishing and tasty breakfast or luncheon dish.
Sour milk or cream makes delicious waffles, gingerbread, salad dressing, or spice cake.
Dried crusts and slices of bread or stale rolls can be steamed or sprinkled with water and heated in the oven, or they may be ground and used in various kinds of puddings, escaloped or casserole dishes.
Stale cake may be crumbed or steamed and served with fruit or vanilla sauce.
Grated or chopped bits of hard cheese can be used in sandwich fillings, cream sauce, salads, or escaloped dishes.
According to some experts, American housewives have offended greatly in the waste of cooking fat. The Government has now asked them to save it for use in making glycerine from which explosives and other war materials are made.
Glycerine is used in making many other household things, such as lotions, soap, cosmetics, antiseptics, and food flavoring.
Fats and oils can be clarified, so they may be used for cooking, in various ways.
Water or raw potatoes added to the cold fat and heated slowly to a moderate temperature for fifteen to twenty minutes, then strained through fine cloth will remove objectionable odors, flavors, or: color. Too high temperature (the smoking point) decomposes some fats, especially butter and margarine, and causes them to become rancid more quickly. If all kinds of fats are used for cooking, each kind should be kept in individual containers and used according to the 
 —OCTOBER 1942 LESSON DEPARTMENT flavor desired. If fat is salvaged for Government use, all kinds may be put together. The ones of higher melting point mixed with those of lower melting point make the whole more compact and easier to handle. Soap, another vital article, should be conserved. Small bits can be made into a jelly by dissolving in boiling water, or they may be put into a soap shaker and used for dish washing or hand laundering. "I will waste nothing." 'This part of the Consumer's Pledge, if seriously followed by every household, would save many hundreds of dollars, much 731 time and energy, and make happier people. Questions for Discussion 1. Have class members come prepared to discuss methods they have used to save and conserve in the home. 2. Name all the ways you can in which food may be wasted. 3. What agencies in your community assist in the salvage of commodities no longer of use in the home? 4. How could members of the Relief Society work together to salvage materials for which they have no further personal use? See "Salvage For Victory Program," Relief Society Magazine, August 1942, p. 553.