[Vol29 | October 1942 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY]

poetry and many excellent articles to the Magazine. Her knowledge of Relief Society work due to her many years of active service in the Society, her familiarity with Relief Society history, her acquaintance with Relief Society leaders, and her rare literary gift have made her articles interesting and of inestimable value. From June 1905 until February 1914, Mrs.
Cannon was associate editor of the Woman's Exponent, forerunner of The Relief Society Magazine. Her literary works, both prose and poetry will be sincerely missed by The Relief Society Magazine readers, Woteds. To
THE FIELD ORGANIZATIONS
Since the last report, presented at general conference of Relief Society, October 1941
Stake or Mission Stakes Farr West Humboldt Lake View Mt. Jordan South Ogden Missions Northern Calif. Stake or Mission Stakes Bear Lake Benson Box Elder Cottonwood Moroni New York North Weber Oakland Roosevelt South Sanpete St. Joseph Summit Zion Park Missions Argentine Brazilian Hawaiian Mexican New England Northwestern Sts. Formerly Part of North Weber Reno, Nevada, and Mt. Ogden Weber East Jordan Mt. Ogden California Mission Appointed President Nellie W. Neal Sarah C. Martin Fern B. Fowers Minnie Ballard Olive M. Christiansen Mary S. Ellsworth REORGANIZATIONS Since the last report, presented at general conference of Relief Society, October 1941
Released Veda Shepherd Lulu E. Johnson Grace V. Price Lyle M. Berry Elillian Ivory Eva F. Driggs Nellie W. Neal Anna L. Ellsworth Elsie M. 'Taylor Clarice B. Tuttle Milla T. Wee Katherine M. Judd Josephine Sandberg Corraine S. Williams Amelia W. Bowers Armada B. Cox Vera P. Anderson Valeria D. Young Florence G. Smith Appointed President ~ Amy M. Athay Leona McCarrey Josie J. Jeppson Florence H. Bennion Leona Irons Eva Haglund Melva O. Stratford Ruth Savage Hilton Margaret Wiscombe Anna S. Rasmuson Wilda Merrill Mary E. Wright Inez Burgener Kate Barker Ada P. Seegmiller Eldred L. Waldron Mary B. Done Pierce Bertha S. Reeder Edna H. Bennion % Date January 18, 1942
July 26, 1942
March 22, 1942
June 14, 1942
December 7, 1941
January 2, 1942
Date May 17, 1942
July 12, 1942
July 12, 1942
July 13, 1942
August 2, 1942
May 17, 1942
March 29, 1942
May 31, 1942
April 26, 1942
August 16, 1942
June 21, 1942
November 16, 1941
June 6, 1942
August 1, 1942
February 25, 1942
July 1, 1942
August 13, 1942
December 12, 1941. January 14, 1942 NEW RADIO SERIES—"DRAMATIZATIONS FROM THE LIVING BIBLE" 4h  each Friday evening from 7 to 7:30 p. M. Mountain Wartime, an hour when, it is hoped, most members of the family can listen together. This series will continue for fifty-two weeks—one full year. Incorporated in these half-hour dramatizations is some of the world's finest music, majestic choral renditions of anthems centuries old when Christ was born. Recordings | of these programs will be available for the use of stakes and wards, details of which will be published later, Page 708
Rationing Note: The following information with respect to rationing, obtained from Justin C. Stewart, State Consumer Relations Officer, Office of Price Adminstration, will be found of interest to Relief Society women: HE basic idea of rationing is not new to Mormons, and indeed in one form or another was carried on by American pioneers generally. Essentially, rationing means simply that where a limited supply of a given commodity exists, all shall share equally.
Thus all people share on a democratic and equitable basis in the sacrifices imposed on the civilians of a country engaged in total war.
Most citizens deem it a privilege to make this small contribution, this small sacrifice, to help their country at war, especially when they remember that some of their countrymen are making the supreme sacrifice to protect the security of their homes and the freedom they hold so dear.
While the idea of sharing with our neighbors is not new to America, official rationing programs developed and conducted by the Government for the 132 million people in this country are new.
Literally thousands of people must be recruited and trained to handle the job.
Fortunately for all of us, this is done almost entirely by volunteers. For example, when the registration for the basic sugar ration was undertaken, some 9,000 school __ superintendents throughout the United States with their boards of education contributed their time and money.
They recruited many thousands of teachers to assist in the job. The members of the thousands of local war price and rationing boards likewise are volunteers, except for paid secretaries to assist the larger boards. The whole problem of rationing is complicated 'by the fact that several different methods must be used for the rationing of different commodities.
This is illustrated by two commodities we are now rationing, sugar and automobiles.
Sugar is used almost universally. The problem of determining how much should be allowed to any one person is merely a problem in arithmetic. The anticipated supply is simply divided by the number of individual and industrial consumers, and the quotient is the amount allowed. Automobiles, on the other hand, never were used by everyone. This, coupled with the fact that the shortage of cars is so severe, makes it a problem not of simple division, but rather of classifying all users of automobiles and allotting cars only to those most essential to public health, welfare, and the war effort. The English system of rationing clothing illustrates still a third method. In this instance, a group of related items must be considered at once. For while it is true that all people use clothing, there is no single article that is used by everyone. For example, office workers would have little or no use for overalls. Accordingly, the English ration clothing by issuing a book of coupons.
Then each item of clothing is given a ration point value. For example, a pair of man's socks might have a value of two ration points, while a man's suit might have a value of forty _ (Continued on page 741)