[Vol5 | June 1918 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Current Topics | Title: Current Topics James H. Anderson]

en E ICO CO gUl O a O & U bo W B a a Q W Z O rt (LI ClJ E c Ul o 0 U U Ph H u OJ Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. The 3/ormon Church, at its April Conference, voted another $250,000 to the Governement Liberty Bond subscriptions. The Temple built by the Latter-day Saints in the Hawaiian Islands has been completed. The Draft Age has been changed by Congress to include all young men reaching the age of twenty-one years in June, 1918. Kerosene oil and Coal are likely to be two items added to the"scarcity" list in the L^nited States by the close of 1918. An earthquake in Southern California on April 21 destroyed two small towns and did a considerable amount of property damaere in others. The new submarine chasers now being made in the United States can travel forty-five miles per hour on the surface of the water. That surelv is a great achievement. The German high seas fleet is being counted on as reaching the Pacific Ocean when the ice in the north is melted sufficiently by the approach of summer. Twenty-six women conductors in London streetcars were poisoned none fatally — in one week in April, by strangers treating them to chocolate candy. In Mexico, food is so scarce that hundreds, especially childpoorer classes die each successive month, of starvation. among the ren, Col. Richard W. Young, of Utah, grandson of President Brigham Young, has been promoted to the position of brigadiergeneral — a promotion earned by merit. In Palestine, in April, the Turks and Germans attached the British at a pvoint a few miles southwest of Nazareth, but were driven back. 
 Turkey and Bulgaria will soon separate from Germany, is President Wilson's expressed view. Only forcible separation will be efifective. " ? Mexicans to the number of.several hundred have been brought to labor in the Utah and Idaho beet-fields. They are mostly of pure Indian blood. Child welfare is a lovely and timely topic for real and would-be mothers; but many won't-bes seem to be pushing to the front in talking in the present national movement. The United States began rushing troops to France in the latter part of March, so that by this time hundreds of thousanab of American soldiers are facing the German invaders there. American aeroplanes to the number of tens of thousands are now in actual service in training camps, and soon will make their force felt in the European theatre of war. In Russia, the women have been granted the privilege of voting on questions afifecting parish affairs in the Russian church, and even to hold the office of elder and act as psalm-reader. An aeroplane having crossed the Atlantic, was the announcement from Great Britian in April. Official denial was made that it came from the United States, but the latter has aeroplanes that can make the trip. ? Wool is to be taken by the Government at tne price prevailing on July 30. 1917. Thus all the great commodities except those raised in the South have had a maximum price put upon them by the Government. Congress has been criticizing sharply the incompetency of high officials in various national administration departments, with the result that much improvement has been made and more is in prospect. The American Publishers' Association, at its convention in New York in April, condemned the Government censorship at Washington as deceptive and as suppressing news readily obtainable in other countries. Zeebrugge, a German U-base in Belgium, was the object of a desperate and highly courageous attack by the English on April CURRENT TOPICS. 345 22. Much damage was inflicted and concrete sliips were sunk in the hope of closing" that port to the U-boats. Be-rtrand Russell, editor of the London (Eng.) Tribunal, and Miss Joan Beauchamp. owner, have been sentenced on conviction of "abusing" (maligning) American troops, Russel to six months imprisonment and Miss Beauchamp to pay a fine of $300. . .Easter Sunday, 1918, in commemoration of the resurrection of Jesus of Nazareth, was celebrated peacefully and earnestly at a meeting of about four thousand Christians of various denominations assembled upon the Mount of Dlives, Palestine— the first occasion of the kind in history. Holland is in an awkward predicament as to its neutrality. Germany insists on pushing war materials through that country to the fighting front, while America will not supply the Netherlands food if such aid to Germany continues. It seems to be either fight or starve. Three long-range cannon, made by Germans, surprised the military and mechanical world in April, by being used to bombard Paris from St. Gobain wood, a distance of seventy-five miles. The highest point reached in the flight of the missile thrown is estimated at twenty miles above the earth. Russia has lost one-third of its population and scores of square miles of territory by annexations to Germany in the peace treaty arranged with the Bolsheviki. This accounts for many Russian army units being reofficered by Germans and incorporated into the kaiser's armies. Germany's great drive began March 25, and forced the allies in France backward about forty miles at one point. At the end of April Germany, the battle the still since was on, wi'thof the defection Russia the determinedly. resisting allies from allied cause, has about two men to one against the allies in France. Certain labor unions in the West called a.strike for May 1, as a protest against T. J. Mooney, convicted of murder during the preparedness parade in San Francisco, being executed. If Moonev is guilty of the crime charged, his sympathizers by strikes cannot lay claim to loyalty to the United States in the present crisis. Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams, Red Cross. The development and expansion of the American Red Cross has been one of the most remarkable achievements of the war. Spurred on by orders from General Necessity the Red Cross workers of the Mountain division, comprising Utah, New Mexico, Wyoming, and Colorado, continued their record-breaking activities during March. Figures compiled at division headquarters in Denver show that the valiant troops of various chapters, branches and auxiliaries are maintaining a "barrage" of our necessities that will be of great assistance in keeping old General Von Suffering from advancing his forces into alHed territory. During the month, 992,169 articles, including knitted goods, hospital garments and supplies, surgical dressing and refugee garments, were received at the division warehouse. The February receipts were 888,834 articles, and the January receipts 567,- 684 articles. Thus, it will be seen, the division production has practically doubled since the first of the year. Plenty of Yarn Now Available. — The Mountain Division Supply Department advises that it now has an abundant supply of varn. It can supply all chapters. The present price, as established byWashington headquarters, is $2.30 a pound. Director Standart, of the Bureau of Supplies, wishes to impress upon chapters the necessity of following a uniform practice in ordering supplies. Be sure to specify what yarn is for, also color desired. He urges the use of Form 250. Do not put anything on this but the order. If it is desired to ask any questions, write on a separate sheet. The matter then will be referred to the proper department, and more prompt attention is assured. Food Production. Preachers Asked to Help in Food-Production Campaign. — Ministers of All Religions Requested to Tell their People How America Needs Food. — Washington, 'D. C. Every [minister, priest and rabbi in the United States is to be asked to join in the campaign that aims to insure this year record-breaking crops of every farm product.