[Vol5 | June 1918 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Home | Title: Home Science Department]

Home Science department, under the direction of Mrs. Janette A. Hyde. After the opening exercises, Miss Alice Ravenhill, professor of home economics at the U. A. C, herself one of the best known authors in the United States on ChildWelfare, took up this subject and delivered a most excellent address. The facts and truths which she treated are very familiar to the women of the Relief Society, 
 but a new angle was given through the presentation of modern statistics; and especially attractive was the cultured form and substance of the address. The speaker referred to the decision of the United States to make this coming year a child-welfare period, and manifested the need of more intelligent apprehension concerning the age-old problems of child-protection from diseases and death. Compared ignorance concerning the causes and prevention of infant mortality to a poison in the human system which necessitates an antidote, and recited the startling figures of infant mortality which was like a public poison withering the roots of national life. "Some races have more resistance to certain diseases than others," said the speaker. "The Caucasians are more susceptible to tuberculosis, whooping cough, measles, scarlet fever and other ailments. The yellow race has a peculiar resistance to certain organic diseases which enables it to live under conditions which would be fatal to the white race Each one of us inherits certain tendencies. It is our duty to find out the direction in which each child is least resistant, to strengthen the weak and consolidate its strong points. Liberty does not carry with it the right to disregard the rights of others. The greater the democracy the stricter the discipline of its members that the rights of others be regarded— the more responsible their duty to maintain a high standard of health, strict sanitary conditions, not alone for their own welfare, but that of their neighbors." She stated that 300,000 children died annually in this country before birth and declared that these conditions could be improved by a complete birth registration insuring the lightening of considerable ignorance and the aiding of the poverty stricken. Three thousand more children, she said, died before twelve months of age. The United States spends $350,000,000 on its insane population in one year, despite the two preventable causes of insanity — unfit parentage and the poisoning of the mother's system before the birth of the child. She told of the death rate in the various countries of the world of infants under twelve months old, for every 1.000 of child population, as follows: Belgium, 167; Italy, 153; Germany, before the war, 147; France, 127; England, including the city of London, 90; Russia, 248; Canada, 248; New Zealand, 50; and the United States, based on a very incomplete estimate, 120. Twenty-five per cent of the babies of this nation were found to have died of conditional debility; 9 per cent of bronchitis or pneum.onia; one-ninth of digestive disorders; 50,000 annually of tuberculosis; 12 out of every 100 of whooping cough; from 10,000 to 20,000 annually of measles. For every death there was also counted six cases of illness which survived, resulting in blindness, deafness, dullness, GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 319 delicate lungs, crooked spines, diseased joints, ruined digestions, etc. The speaker urged the mothers to study the conditions which will prevent disease and to enlist themselves in the war against child sacrifice. In closing she added some startling statistics as follows: Some 106,392 men, or 70 per cent of the applicants for the navy, had been found physically unfit; 500,000 of the military enlistments, or one-third, had been found through preventable diseases, unfit for service, all between the ages of 21 and 31. Eight million more men above 31 had been found physically disqualified, meaning that 13,000,000 men who should be in the very prime of life were physically useless to their country in its hour of need. The demonstration in food values and war-time substitutes given by Miss Jean Cox, of the U. A. C, was extremely interesting and attractive. The speaker had upon the stand sample portions of various foods, and thus illustrated all of her valuable and excellent points. She showed the contrasting caloric values and certainly provided many new suggestions for those present to work upon in the present food crisis. Afternoon Session. The conference in the afternoon was addressed by President Emmeline B. Wells. Counselors Clarissa Smith Williams, and Julina L. Smith, and Mrs. Mary Smith Ellsworth, president of the Relief Societies of the Northern States mission. Counselor Williams was the first speaker, and she delivered an earnest exhortation to the sisters, saying, in part: "We conserve in food and we conserve our clothing, and we endeavor to do all those things which are necessary for us to do in order that the great work which is being carried on today may be carried on to a successful finish. I want to say to you, dear mothers, conserve yourselves. If there is any danger today, it will be in the over-anxiety of the mothers and women past middle age who are past the child-bearing age, but who are the mothers of growing children. If there would be a danger to them, it would be that they should endeavor to overdo the conservation theory. I would feel to impress on you to eat plenty of food, 'plenty of calories,' as Miss Cox said this morning — not overeat, but find, if possible, food that agrees with you, and then 'eat it slowly and chew well.' That is an old saw, but it is verily true. I know by experience that it does not take as much food for the nourishment of an adult person if it is thoroughly masticated. So take time to eat, take time to rest a little, and to reflect; and above all things, take time to pray that you may have the spirit of our heavenly Father and his beloved Son, to uphold you and give 
 you strength to carry the burdens which are yours during these trying times. "I am of the opinion that the women of the Latter-day Saints, with their usual responsibihty in taking up new measures, are doing all in their power to help to carry on this great struggle in which we find ourselves. But sisters, have you ever paused to think that this war will not be won with bullets — it will be by the united efifort of the whole people of the world who are working for peace and the right kind of peace, that the people may enjoy all the rights which the Lord designated that they should enjoy here in the world, and that it will take faith and prayer and work more than bullets to win this great struggle. "I presume that many of you are surprised and delighted with the opinion of many noted men that the love of the Lord and the belief in the divinity of the Lord, and the thought that religion adds to the happiness of the human family is being widely disseminated, not only among men who have been of a non-religious nature, but many young men who thought they had no religion. I do not mean only our own young men, but many of the young men of the world are being led to believe that there is a God, that there is a future life beyond this life, and it is being borne in on them that it is proper that they should live in such a way that they should be ready to enter the presence of the Lord. Some beautiful testimonies come to us from our own young men. You know, you mothers, how our boys are often quite indifferent. They know that they are Latter-day Saints, they have always been Latter-day Saints, they have been taught to do this and that and the other, but they have not taken it very seriously. Many of them now feel that they are on as sacred a mission as they would be had they been set apart to go to preach the gospel; and by their conduct, and their manners and the words quietly spoken, they are able to be true missionaries to those with whom they are associated. I think one of the best things that has come to me has been the testimony of my own young son. He had the measles in the training camp, and during the time that he was in quarantine he had a great deal of time to reflect and read. While he was in a ward, he was yet in a quiet corner, and he wrote to tell me that he had had a beautiful testimony of the gospel. He had always thought the gospel was true, and it meant the most to him of anything, but he had never had a testimony of the gospel until those quiet hours that he spent in reflection and in prayer while he was on his sick-bed. Now that, sisters, means more to me and more to you who have sons who can bear this same testimony, than millions of dollars of riches. The very thought that our children are impressed with the divinity of the gospel, that they have the inspiration to tell them that the gospel is true, that GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 321 they can say, 'O, I never realized what an uphft prayer could their to give me untilFather heavenly now!' withNow, whenbelief a firm our that dear heones will can approach answer their prayers, that he is there, ready, just as their earthly parent would be, with accentuated love for them, oh, what a spirit of blessing it brings! "I pray, my dear sisters, that we may have the Spirit to uphold us, to give us faith, that we may bless those about us with faith and w^ith love and with courage, that we may be upheld by the knowledge that our Father in heaven is able to assist us, and that at all times we may be found doing his will and keeping his commandments." Counselor Julina L. Smith continued in the same theme, adding her own choice and sound advice as follows: "While Prof. Ravenhill about the boys and the men in was speaking the world, I felttoto usthank this our morning heavenly Father that our boys, the Latter-day Saints boys that have been called away, have not been found diseased and in a condition that they would have to be sent home because they are not fit for soldiers or for anything else. Once in a while w^e find a boy or two amongst us who have heart trouble, or some physical disability, but we can cheer up and feel thankful that our boys who have been reared Latter-day Saints are examples to the world; and when we hear of such things as we heard this morning of men in the outside world, we are grateful that our boys are not in that condition. "Now, most of the army boys smoke, and I said to a doctor down in San Diego, 'Why do they smoke?' In reply he stated that the boys had to walk so far every morning and drill so many hours, and that those who smoked and used tobacco could not walk so far as those that did not; and Lasked him, 'Why do they allovv them to smoke?' He said, 'That is up to them; they are permitted, of course, to use their own judgment in that.' He admitted that those who were perfectly pure and clean and kept the 'Word of Wisdom,' could walk farther and do better than the others. Now, you mothers who have reared your boys to be Latter-day Saints, and have taught them not to use tobacco and liquor, you have some comfort, even if your sons have been called to war. "We have been looking forward to just such times as we have now. You, like myself, knew that when the Lord said that just such things would come as we are having now, that they would come sometime. I did not think it would be in my dav. I thought before the end came we w^ould have wars and pestilence and earthquakes and cyclones and all those things which the Lord said would come unless we were faithful and true and repented and lived right — and we have not lived right, there are manv of our Z
 own young folks who are beingled away and have not been living as well as they used to live; but I think those who have had good teachings will do well. "I have heard of many of our boys who are away, exercising their good influence with other young men, that have not had the same training that the Latter-day Saints have had, and these others are listening to our Latter-day Saints boys and watching and imitating them. "In regard to our saving — we can do a great deal of saving. in taking care of food. I have seen people who would waste perhaps nearly half that they cooked, put on the table what little they wanted, and scrape the rest out. We can save by cooking only what we need, and if there is a little left over, warm it up and fix it over for another meal. But we do not have to eat food that is not palatable. We can cook it properly and have it palatable and good and have some left, and we can save in that way. "In regard to gardening — I have done lots of gardening myself, and since I have been where I am now, without a little garden spot, I have looked out on the lawn many a day and thought if I had a little corner of that lawn where I could plant a little lettuce and a few onions and radishes, and go out and pick them in the morning, like I used to do, how glad I would be. It would not hurt anybody to take care of a little piece of garden like that. I do not believe in saying to our old ladies and to the sisters who have worked all their lives: 'It is your duty to go out and plow and hoe and water and raise grain and vegetables' — there are many young people who can put in some of their time that way; and it will not hurt them, it will do them good — just as much good will come to them from raising vegetables as raising flowers. And the older ladies can put in their time sewing and taking care of chickens. Those who were at our meeting last night heard the lecture on raising chickens. I was very much interested in that. An old lady can tend to the chickens and enjoy it, when she could not go out and hoe in the garden. There are things that we can all do that will help, and it is all war work. The old ladies that can sit and knit stockings and scarfs and wash rags and quilt pieces — they are doing their part and helping the soldiers. And I want to tell you that we are on the Lord's side. Our boys are working for the Lord, and we are going to win, for the Lord always wins. We may have a hard struggle, but we are going to win, we know that. As long as we are on the Lord's side we are all right. "Our Relief Society women have always been ready for whatever call the president of the Relief Society makes upon them, no matter what it is for. They respond directly, they are right up GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 323 and in arms. When the President of the Church says we want this, that or the other, they are ready. It is like touching an electric button and turning on the light. It takes only a little while to get out a word to all of our sisters, then they are on hand to do what they are asked to do. It is not because they are afraid and have to take counsel: it is because they are loyal and love to work in unison. When our government calls on us and says we want you to save and take care of the food, we are on hand to do it. When the government says, we want your boys, the best and healthiest that you have, to go to war. to go and help to save their country — that is the biggest and the hardest thing that we could be called upon for; but how do our sisters and our brothers respond? They say, 'Go, my son, you go and do your part. If you lose your life, you will lose it in a good cause, and if your life is spared to you, return home, knowing that you have done your duty, and you will be prepared to go on and help the Lord in his work.' ""I pray that the Lord will bless each and every one of us and help us to do his will and help us that we may not forget to pray, to pray for all who have gone to war, that all the honest in heart and all who trust in the Lord may be blessed, which is my prayer in theMrs. nameEllsworth of Jesus.said,Amen." in part: 'T feel this afternoon as I listened to that beautiful trio, and heard those sisters sing, how blessed are they who trust in the Lord! and I looked over this splendid audience, and those words filled my heart: 'How blessed are they who trust in the Lord!' The Lord has been good to the Latter-day Saints; he has kept his promise to us that to us should be revealed his mind and will, and that we should be magnified in the eyes of the world, and that the eyes and the hearts of the nations of the earth should be turned to Zion. Since the first of last December I have had the privilege of visiting 25 groups of women located throughout the six states of the Northern States mission, and in making my trips to and fro to those 25 groups of women, I have come in contact with many, many people, and have had the privilege given to me to talk to them about the prophecies concerning the war, and I come to tell you that the spirit of unrest, a feeling of fear, is in the hearts of the people of the world. Our missionaries testify that as they go from door to door, tracting. many are glad to listen to their word; they are turning their hearts to the things of the Lord. "Our missionaries number about 168, yet are a band of children compared to the educated and experienced men and women among whom they labor, but the Lord is good to us— our baptisms this year have been greater in number than in any other year 
 of our mission. We baptized in the month of July more than were baptized in the whole of the first year that President Ellsworth presided in the Northern States. "And I was glad to hear yesterday in our meeting and today the cry from the stand, 'Sisters, conserve your strength.' I think sometimes we get too anxious, too over-zealous, and do more than is required of us, and still I do not want to feel to criticize, but do my utmost in everything that I am called to do. "Do you not know that we are blessed above all people in all time? To us has been made known the prophecies of the Bible, the prophecies of the Book of Mormon, which bring us to a fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We have been told that dire calamities will come: war, earthquake, pestilence, famine — we have been taught it always, not only from the prophets in the Bible and the Book of Mormon, but our Father in heaven has blessed us with our latter-day prophet, to whom he has revealed himself so that the smallest child can understand the things that are to come, the test that is to be made of his children. He has said to us, T will have a tried people; you must love me, you must keep my commandments; you must know the gospel and you must know that you know it.' I believe the time is right at our doors when the world is going to.be shaken up, when the people everywhere are going to turn to the Lord — for as we go about in our mission, we find hundreds and thousands of beautiful, honesthearted people. But they have not been given the light that we have received. " 'Blessed are those who trust in the Lord.' While I know some of our boys will have to fall, while I believe sincerely that many of them will give their lives in this great struggle for liberty, Ibelieve firmly that to them on the other side will be given the great privilege of teaching the gospel to the hundreds and thousands who will be slain. "The day has come when the spirit of Elijah is poured out upon all nations. It is our duty to look after our dead, and if we will, the spirit of the Lord will come to us, peace and comfort shall be given to us, and even though we lose our sons, the sting of death shall be taken away if we keep the commandments that the Lord has given us. "In our mission, with a little group of less than 400 women, we have sent in to the temple during the last year 3,300 names, and when I tell you that those sisters, many of them, work by the day in stores, in shops, some of them scrubbing, ironing, taking care of the sick, or what they can, to pay for that temple work, you will know that they believe and are fully converted to the principle of salvation for the dead. And so I say the Lord has blessed us as he said. He has kept his promise to us." GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 325 President Emmeline B. Wells then addressed the meeting: "My beloved brethren and sisters, I am sorry I am hoarse, but feel that I must speak, because I have the same feeling at this conference that I have had previously, that perhaps I might not be spared until another conference, you know, all of you, that I am not young, and probably most of you know that I have been a very long time in the Church — seventy-six years, the first day of March, since I was baptized into the Church — nearly four score years in the Church, and in that long experience I have seen and heard wonderful things. I have never doubted, not once, the truth of the gospel as revealed through the Prophet Joseph. "We should guard our children and protect them from everything that is wrong; and when they do marry, they should marry, in the House of the Lord, the Temples that we have built here wherein ceremonies of this kind should take place; so that their children may be born in the new and everlasting covenant and be entitled to every blessing pertaining to that calling. "We speak of our young men as our boys. I remember that in Nauvoo they u.sed to speak about the Nauvoo Legion as the boys of the Nauvoo Legion. A great many of them were boys, and the Prophet Joseph himself was young. When we look back and think of his age, think of what he had passed through, and the terrible persecutions he endured, and then of his terrible death, and his brother Hyrum, and what they suffered, it startles us! However, we believe what the scriptures say, that the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church; and since that time, how wonderfully the Church has grown. "I recall the very, very dark hours in Nauvoo, when the Prophet was taken to prisoi., and how the people mourned, mourned as if he were their very own — it is sad even to think of it, the mourning of the people at the time when the Prophet and his brother Hyrum (the father of our present prophet, seer and revelator today) were taken to prison; and how the people turned out in the streets to watch them go! And I recall that President Daniel H. Wells said many times when he spoke of it, that they passed his house, which was just on the outskirts of the city, and that the Prophet stopped and spoke to him and said to him, "Squire Wells, I hope you won't think I am the worst man in the world because I am going to prison" There was a crowd of people all the way they went. I saw them when they went, and the crowd that followed them. But this was really on the outskirts of the city when he spoke to Squire Wells and shook hands with him, I believe if I remember right. Squire Wells had not then become a member of the Church, although I think he was convinced that "A^ormonism" was true, and tried to wait for his wife to believe as he did. You know t!ie story, all of you — I 
 do not need to repeat that, but I do want to bear my testimony, even if it should be the last that I would have the opportunity to bear to you, of the Prophet Joseph and his wonderful personality. "I think there is no person — there could not be any one, so devoid, I think, of the knowledge of people, that could think that there was anythingbut loyalty and truth and love and mercy in his character. He certainly had a divine appearance. It seems to me tiiat he must have been very much like the Savior himself. When I think of him I can see him just as plain as anything' can be in my mind's eye, as if he stood here in the midst of us, speakingto the people as he did on every occasion that I heard him talking to the people. "We have had persecution here, but not to com])are with that. We have had the army in Echo canyon, and kept them there for a while, until we could move to Provo and other places in the south. And then we returned in great triumph. I recall the time when Heber C. Kimball came into the house where three of the Wells family were gathered at that time in Provo, and he sat down to talk to us. He saw that we were gloomy — especially I was gloomy, because T had seen the time when we were driven from Nauvoo, an.d when my own mother died from persecution. She was not fifty years old when she died of the hardships. Of course hundreds of others died as well. When we went to Provo it brought it all back again — and Heber C. Kimball sat in our house in Provo, before we went into the shanties, and said, "Emmeline, let me tell you that we shall go back to Salt Lake City, and we shall go back in triumph." It was pretty hard to believe, and I do not know that I did exactly believe it, but it came to pass. "The Lord has preserved us in these valleys of the mountains. He has keyit us, and we are preserved, and we have grown and we have multiplied, and in nearly all of the nations of the earth and on the islands of the sea we have people faithful and true, just as we try to be who live here under the droppings of the sanctuary, and hear our prophets speak and talk and hear our President. All of us, probably, who are here in this house have heard President Joseph V. Smith speak from the stand in the Tabernacle. Undoubtedly w^e have, and I hope we shall again <luring this conference. And we have this grand Society, this Society of women, that was organized by the Prophet Joseph himself in the City of Nauvoo, in the Masonic Hall. There were then only a few, 18 in number, and three of the brethren of the Priesthood with them. And w^e have still kept on. Now we have hundreds an.d thousands in the Relief Society, and I believe we have all been well taught, even those who have been in foreign countries, When I heard Brother Hyrum MSmith'.s wife speak GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 327 as she did at one of our conferences recently, I felt that the Lord had certainly been with her in proclaiming the truth there, almost as much, I may say, as he had with the elders. And our sisters who have traveled and gone in foreignthecountries with their husbands and some without them, and missionaries who have been called to stay there, their wives have gone with them; and then the young girls, young women, who have been called into the mission field, they have all done a great work. "I remember, in Nauvoo, when some of the missionaries would be starting away, I thought, 'I only wish I were a boy, and if I could go on a mission, howsee glad I would be!' And I never expected then that I would the day when the women would be called to go abroad and teach and preach the gospel. But I am very glad that I have lived to see that day. Soon after going to Nauvoo, having been associated always with the people in Nauvoo, I heard a very great deal about missions and going on missions, and I had the greatest -desire in the world even then to go on a mission, though we were sick, and distressed, and poor, and had scarcely enough to eat. But I have never been really sent on a mission. I think I have been eleven times in Washington— on special missions, and I have been abroad, and I have talked the gospel to hundreds of people and strangers everywhere I went, if there was any opportunity at all. I have never been called upon a mission; but I was set apart to this mission that I have now in the Relief Society, which is as great a mission as I can possibly have. I love the sisters of the Relief Society as I love myself and my own kindred — they are just as near to me as many of my own kindred are that are dear to me; and my kindred are very dear to me. I feel that I made some sacrifice when my mother died a martyr to the faith, but I do not feel that I have made any great sacrifice at all myself, because my ways have been ways of pleasantness, and everything has been pleasing to me. "The Prophet said that the people would come to Zion with their packs on their backs to be fed; and I know a story in connection with this which I could not tell you today. It is a very good one and proof that it was taken to heart by some people. I do not think that they have as yet come in that way, but probably they will, because of the terrible wars that take place in the world today, that are taking place today, and that may yet take place in the future, if the prophecies of the Bible and of the Book of Mormon, and the Prophet Joseph Smith and of President Young are fulfilled, they certainly will; and it looks now as if it was not so very far off when they would come to be fed. *'I am very glad that I have had the experiences that I have had; I am very glad that I am able to tell them to the people wherever I go, the wonderful things that we passed through in 
 the early days, the wonderful man President Brigham Youngwas, as well as the Prophet, for certainly he was one of the greatest minds ever given to man. Except the Prophet, we consider him until now the greatest. Perhaps there have been other great men. At the present time we have the same blood in the man that presides over us today that the Prophet had in his veins. "I recall with great pleasure the mother of the Prophet, how we used to come and kneel down at her feet and think it was the greatest pleasure possible, that she must be the greatest woman in the world, because she was the mother of the Prophet Joseph Smith, whom we all revered above any man that we have ever seen. And yet we have the same blood today, the blood of the martyrs, presiding over us today! I hope that you, all of you, and all of you who preside and have an opportunity to speak in meetings, will remember the man who stands at the head of the Church today, and who presides over us, that he is the greatest man living on the earth today. No kin^ or potentate, or anything else, no matter what position he may occupy, is so great as the man who presides over the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, of which we are members; and I hope that you will all pray that he and those associated with him may live, that he will have his