1.30 $37.06 Highlights in Kitchen Planning Lalene H. Hart DURING the past century, industry has taken over one after another of the productive and creative tasks which used to be performed in the home. Although many of these traditional tasks have gone forever, so long as three meals per day (not including the extras) must be prepared in the kitchen for three hundred and sixty-five days each year, the kitchen still remains, in many ways, the most important room in the house. As such, it should reflect the logical thinking and planning of the homemaker and her family. There is evidence on every hand. That kitchens are being planned to meet family needs, and to allow a maximum of work to be done with a minimum expenditure of energy, time, and money. Even so, there are still many drab and uninviting so-called workshops, where women become sordid and discouraged and young people learn to dislike the many interesting and beautiful things in family life. To plan for the efficient workshop, at least two things are necessary: first, there must be a clear idea of all the routine jobs to be done in the kitchen in the order in which they are most likely to come; second, there must be wise choosing and placing of needed equipment. The kitchen has many things in it that are used everyday. To avoid unnecessary handling, all these require orderly and convenient arrangement. Kitchens cannot be so standardized as to make one size suitable for all families. The small one is generally more convenient than a large one. The exact size should be determined by the number of activities to be carried on, the size of larger pieces of equipment and, to some extent, the kind of fuel used. The chief work in most kitchens is that of food preparation, serving, and clearing up. This usually requires from one hundred to one hundred and twenty square feet. Sometimes, however, the kitchen must be used as a dining room or a laundry; then, more space is required. Even so, efficient arrangement is possible in a large, general-purpose kitchen if work centers are planned for various activities. The other extreme is the kitchenette in which every inch of space must be utilized several times. The large-size kitchen, which requires six to ten times more steps than is necessary in the preparation of a meal, could well be remodeled or rearranged, and the same area made useful for other household conveniences. Full-depth or partial partitions may be utilized to separate such activities as eating or laundry work from food-preparation centers. Ideally, the kitchen should be built around the necessary equipment. Floor space, windows, doors and other stationary features can then be planned to the best advantage, and centers for various kinds of work can be so placed that the space needed for one will not be cluttered by the equipment of another. The rectangular or "U" shape, eight to ten feet in width, is practical and lends itself to the best arrangement for the work to be done. THE modern kitchen must allow for at least five major functions; CONVENIENT KITCHEN ARRANGEMENT (Larger pieces of kitchen equipment, such as refrigerator, sink and stove, with connecting counterboards or tables and cabinets, are arranged within easy reach of one another and so that activities may proceed in regular order from right to left.) storage of food and utensils, preparation of food, cooking, serving, and clearing up after meals. This necessitates development of at least three areas of activity: first, the receiving, storing, and preparation area; second, the cooking and serving area; third, the area for clearing away, cleaning up, and disposing of garbage. In recent years, another area, which makes for efficiency, has been created to care for planning and business activities. The tendency now is to locate the kitchen away from the living quarters in order to remove the odors and noise of food preparation and to avoid any interference in this utility room. However, there should be easy access to the front and back doors (without passing through other rooms), to the dining room, to the telephone, to the stairs, and to the basement. Two doors are all any convenient kitchen needs, and these should be placed to eliminate traffic lanes. | Adequate ventilation in all weather and good lighting at all work centers, at night as well as day, may influence its location. The choice of finishes for floors, walls, and woodwork, should be durable, suitable in color, and easily cleaned. Furnishings should be selected to fit needs, suit the walls and floor space, and should pay for themselves in usefulness. The method of giving a particular worker the job best fitted to him is not easily applied to the homemaker, for she must do all kinds of work; 678 but planning and grouping of equipment to save steps and unnecessary motions will speed up her work and save much wasted energy. The placing of the larger pieces of equipment, such as stove, sink and refrigerator, with connecting counterboards or tables and cabinets, can be done in such a way that the activities may proceed in regular order and within easy reach of one another. The refrigerator and receiving table are best placed near the service door and at the right end of the room if the "U" shaped plan is used. Next, the sink and the stove are placed at the left end, nearest the dining room. Studies prove that fewest steps and motions are made in food preparation when work proceeds from right to left. Perishable food is taken from the refrigerator to the preparation counter which is located near a sink with running water and surrounded by cabinets, where all frequently used staples and utensils are conveniently kept. At this point, the food is prepared, taken to the stove, cooked, and then served. Retracing of steps is practically eliminated if this routine is followed. No kitchen, however poor, is so outdated that it will not lend itself, more or less, to a similar arrangement. In some homes, the work may have to proceed in the opposite direction, from left to right. Even so, the step retracing may be greatly reduced by good arrangement. In the cleaning-up or dishwashing center, the right to left method conserves both time and energy. Dishes are scraped, and all of one kind are neatly stacked together at the right of the sink. They are washed, drained or dried at the left of the sink and placed in convenient cupboards in close proximity to the drain counter, stove, and serving table. To either right or left of the sink, and accessible without stooping, should be found a drawer containing plenty of clean towels and cloths. Dishwashing is one of the many thrills of housekeeping when there is plenty of hot water, good soap, and absorbent, but not linty, towels. The result is clean, sparkling, sanitary dishes that are a joy to use. A storage shelf or a door rack at the sink holds soap, cleaning preparations, polishes, a roll of soft paper, dish scraper, and brushes. In the ventilated cupboard space beneath the sink may be placed pullrods for drying towels, and hooks for dish pan and drain rack. The sink of today is compact and efficient, with doors for ventilation set back six or eight inches to provide knee space where the worker sits. The back is lower and the basin deeper to eliminate splashing. The swivel type faucet is placed higher to prevent dish breaking and to make vessel filling easier. A spray is valuable for dish rinsing and vegetable cleaning. THE pros and cons of built-in or movable equipment should be weighed carefully and prices compared. There are many devices on the market which bring cabinets to their maximum efficiency. The sizes of cabinets will vary according to the needs, but the fundamental principles of construction are the same. Whether it be stove, sink, or storage cabinet, at least four to six inches toe space should be provided at its base. Besides giving comfort to the worker, this prevents marring and denting of the surface finishes. Plain, sturdy, well-built types, which exclude molding, decorative panels, HIGHLIGHTS IN KITCHEN PLANNING and other dust catchers, are most desirable and economical. How well the homemaker feels at the close of an ordinary busy day may be attributed to the height of the working centers. She will find that different activities are more easily performed at variable heights. To avoid aches and pains that come from stretching, stooping, and reaching, the working surfaces should be of the right height. No surface should be so high that stretching of arms or shoulders is necessary, or so low as to cause stooping. The old idea that the sink and table should be a standard height, no matter how short or tall the person using them, has long been discarded. If for any reason the proper height cannot be had, various devices may be employed to adjust these surfaces for comfortable usage. A sturdy step-up for surfaces that are too high, or a slatted rack for a sink that is too low will be handy. Sometimes too much space is wasted between upper and lower cabinets. From twelve to sixteen inches is ample for even tall equipment. Where cupboards are over the sink, the space needs to be increased; and open shelves may be more convenient than doors, especially if they are more than fourteen or sixteen inches in width. Lengthwise or crosswise partitions between widely separated shelves or deep drawers will give more storage space and keep utensils of the same kind grouped together. An extra shelf on four legs, or a graduated, stair-like shelf will serve the same purpose. Adjustable trays, shelves, or racks of wood, metal, or rubber may be used, and are easily removed when cabinets are cleaned. Convenient grouping of 679 needed utensils at the work centers, with everything visible and reached without moving other articles, not only saves time and effort but preserves and lengthens the life of the equipment. The finish of the counter or table tops is important. From the standpoint of cost and protection to dishes, hard, well-seasoned wood is recommended. Linoleum is medium in cost and is durable if firmly set with water-proof cement and edged with metal molding that fits tightly. Hot kettles and fruit stains may damage the surface unless care is taken. Various types of composition and glazed tiling, some of which are non-resistant to acids and stains, are also used. Stainless steel and monel metal are more expensive and may not be wholly resistant to stains. No matter what the finish may be, care and common sense in usage will determine its feasibility. In the workshop, the time element should also be considered. In comparatively few households will regular time tables be found, but it is important that a definite time be set aside for a particular operation, and that this operation be carried out at the allotted time and within definite time limits. It is the simplest and commonest habit to be extremely busy in doing one thing after another without an organized plan and, consequently, to accomplish very little. However, one should not be so bound to a system that it cannot be laid aside if more important things arise. Wise planning takes hard work out of daily tasks, utilizes the income to greater advantage, and gives hopeful and optimistic attitudes to the homemaker. It also makes possible better family health and higher standards of living. A place to do this planning may be most convenient in the kitchen. A small table or writing surface, with drawers or pigeonholes for storing things vital to household business operations, and a comfortable chair will meet requirements. Last, but not least, is the kitchen clock, and surely it is of enough importance to be given a prominent place where it can be seen and heard easily. A small portable radio may not be necessary, but it will give the worker an opportunity to hear the news of the day while doing her regular work.