Sugar and Spice— and Everything Nice Anna Prince Redd ALL my married life the particular shelf where I kept my spices had defied my most careful efforts to keep it trim. Glaring at the offending shelf—more chaotic than usual since Bud's candy-making spree of the night before— I ran my finger through a zigzag trail of chocolate that had spilled from the can, either found or replaced too hastily. Not a single jar or bottle was in place. The spice cake I'd started to make grew porous while I hunted ineffectually for the cinnamon can. My temper, equally effervescent, rose with the cake. An obese mustard jar bowed apologetically and toppled from its precarious position on top of a slender can. The spice cans, lost in a maze of bottles and jars, reproached me. Something just had to be done. Forgetful of the unfinished cake, I began to plan. In the first place, the shelf space was too wide, high, and deep—almost room enough to add another shelf. Mentally, I placed one in, but could see that both shelves would then be too low for the taller bottles and cans. What the spice cans needed was a little shelf of their own—a narrow, little shelf hung midway up and across the back. Bud came in just then, and I invited him to take a look at the disorderly cupboard. He had a shop in the basement, and he made everything from airplanes to rose trellises; maybe he could help me out. CIRCULAR SPICE SHELF 682 "Does look like 'rats and snails and puppy dog tails,' all right. Maybe some day we'll learn to put things back where we find 'em—WHEN we find 'em," he added mischievously. "How would you like to make a new kind of shelf for me," I invited. "A new kind?" he questioned. "Where'd you get on to it?" I began to explain what I had in mind about a special little shelf for the spices. "Hey, wait—you've got something there!" he yelled, tearing down to his shop like mad. He was back in a minute with his drawing board and pencil and began to sketch. What he drew was something like the accompanying illustration. By the next afternoon the shelf was cut, fitted, painted and installed. The alum, curry, turmeric, cinnamon sticks, whole cloves, etc—things used less frequently—were stowed into the spacious, square corners of the semi-circular shelf; the spice cans in a rainbow of colorful parade, stood along the front. The spaciousness of the main shelf was not only not impaired, but was enhanced by the elimination of all the small articles that clutter and shift so maddeningly. My cupboard is now the personification of "sugar and spice and everything nice." To make: Measure the space into which the new shelf is to be fitted. Choose a board the exact width of the permanent shelf (if an amateur is to make the new one). So simplified, the process of making can be accomplished easily and quickly, since no gluing of boards is necessary to get the proper width. Cut this 

 

 board the length of the measured space, and cut two cleats the exact width of the shelf you already have. These cleats (1 inch by ¾ inch), planed well, are nailed to the cupboard ends the desired distance from the shelf below (preferably two-thirds of the way up). Now take the board that has been measured, planed and cut to fit your new shelf. Draw a semi-circle from front to back of the board, beginning 2½ inches from the front corner and continuing the curve to center back the same distance from rear edge as at the beginning on the front corner. From center back continue exactly as the first half was drawn, to the opposite corner. Cut with a jig saw along curved line. Paint shelf and cleats to match the interior of your cupboard, place shelf on cleats. If the lumber used is well seasoned, no nailing is necessary. Fill up the corners behind the curved brigade of your spice cans and—presto! You have order out of chaos! If you have a tall, narrow space in your cupboard, or just room enough to build short shelves in your new home, the spice cupboard may be arranged like a miniature stairway, the widest shelf at the bottom, each shelf diminishing in width to the top. From these shallow shelves the cans are orderly and accessible if care is taken not to make the shelf reach too high. With this arrangement the cupboard can be used for spices only; while with the circular shelf in a larger cupboard space, the entire shelf below may be utilized for containers low enough not to hide the spices.