Rebellion for Alicia Beatrice Rordame Parsons ALICIA MOWBREY, as she came in from the sunshine of the wide, front porch of the house on Shelly Avenue, was so small, so delicately lovely with her slim hands and her snowy-white hair, that she looked a little like a Dresden figure. She had a letter in her hands, and there was a tender smile on her well-formed lips. The letter was from Emma. She could tell by the slanting letters on the envelope: Emma's handwriting was like Emma—big, forceful, yet nice to look at. It had always amazed Alicia that her sister had grown so tall. Almost as tall as Bart. Bart was Alicia's only son—Doctor Bart, now at a hospital in Kansas, where he was resident physician. "Dear Bart," whispered Alicia, and her eyes were soft. "I miss you so." But he couldn't be with her, and she mustn't cry. She opened the screen and went inside. As she came into the living room the clatter of a hammer made her eyes turn toward the dining room. An overalled carpenter, busy with hammer and saw, was building a window seat. Alicia smiled complacently. She had wanted a window seat in that particular window for years. She had known it would be beautiful. Through this window, Mount Olympus loomed against an azure sky like a picture painted by Maxfield Parrish. "It's purty," said the man with a grin, nodding toward the view. He was rewarded by a quick smile. "Beautiful!" Alicia moved into the dining room. Another man, in white coat and overalls, all splashed and dashed with multi-colored paint, looked up, the brush in his hands. "D'yuh think this'll be what you want, Mrs. Mowbrey?" he questioned, pleasantly. She nodded, admiring the flat white coat that was covering the dark, almost black, old-fashioned woodwork. She had disliked that walnut woodwork for years, and had always wanted to paint it. But Emma disapproved. She and Alicia had been born in the old house. When Emma married, she moved to California, leaving Alicia with their father. When he died, he had left the house to Alicia and Will. But to Emma, it was always her mother's home. "It would be sacrilege!" she had cried, astounded. "What would Mother think?" Alicia had not argued. There had never been any use arguing with Emma. It was like kicking at a brick wall. Emma never seemed to notice, but went serenely on dictating, having her own way. Standing there, Emma's letter in her hand, Alicia found herself wishing that Will could see the white paint. But Will was gone—two years, now, rest his soul! She brushed away sudden tears. In the kitchen, perched on the only chair that wasn't covered with tools, paste, and bits of wall-paper, Alicia tore the flap of Emma's letter. As it ripped under her fingers, she flushed a little guiltily. Emma didn't 684 like her fine, gray stationery torn. She always cut envelopes with a paper-knife. More than once, watching Alicia slip her finger under the flap, she had spoken words which were annoying. "I can't see why you insist on tearing envelopes. It always leaves such a ragged, ugly edge." Remembering Emma's disapproval, Alicia put the envelope hastily into her apron pocket. Then she unfolded the letter and began to read. In spite of herself, a tiny grin tugged at her mouth. How like Emma to begin her letter with, "Poor Alicia!..." Emma had called her "Poor Alicia," when Will died. She had arrived from California and taken everything into her competent hands. Alicia was thankful. Emma was so efficient. And when everything was over, Emma sat down in the living room and faced her sister. "Poor Alicia! Whatever will you do now? You can't live in this big, rambling house all by yourself, and I've got to go home. George needs me." She looked swiftly about at the big rooms, the high ceilings, papered in dark, unlovely paper. "I can't leave you here alone. You wouldn't know how to manage. Will always looked after the furnace, the watering, and the ashes." A quick resolve lifted Emma's iron-gray head: "You're coming with me." Even in her grief, Alicia had protested. "I'll be all right. Bart...." Emma's lips were tight with disapproval. "Bart can't stay much longer. He's got to go back to his hospital." She got up as though the matter were already decided. "You'll have to come to George and me. 

 

 There's no other way. Will was so competent." Her eyes, as they looked upon her tiny sister, were tinged with love and something a little like scorn. "Why, Alicia, you've always been such a child! You'd not have the slightest idea where to turn if something should go wrong with the plumbing." Alicia trembled. As always, Emma was arranging everything. She had done so when they were children. She had done so every time she arrived from California. Alicia looked about at the old, familiar things, and cried: "But I could learn!" Emma shrugged. "Poor Alicia, I'll help close the house. George can spare me that long." She was already rolling up her sleeves, girding herself for the battle with boxes and barrels. "Will's partner, Mr. Hacket, will take care of the rest. If you want to rent it, later on, he can take care of that, also." Alicia protested weakly. "I don't want to rent it, Emma." Then seeing by the stern set of her sister's lips that it was useless to say more, she added: "I'll come for a visit. Until... " her lips trembled, "... until I get used to Will's being gone." Then she lifted her small chin, and said stubbornly, "But I'll come back, very soon." Like a mother soothing a distraught child, Emma promised, "Of course, darling, someday." Then she went to work. She packed furiously. She covered chairs and furniture with clean, white muslin. She supervised Alicia's new wardrobe. She insisted on black. Alicia would have preferred gray, or very dark blue. "I loved Will," she told her sister, with a sigh, "and I mourn him ter- REBELLION FOR ALICIA ribly, but he liked me in colors...." She dropped the subject, seeing Emma's quick frown. "I've written all my friends. They know you're a widow." Her eyes were bleakly disapproving. "I'm sure I don't know what they'd think if you arrived looking like a peacock," She smoothed the soft folds of a black dress and put it into a suitcase. Alicia was silent. After all, she was going only for a little while. TWO years crept by — pleasant years, but lonely, in spite of Emma and George; different years than those she had known at home. At home there had been so many things to do: her garden to tend, her birds to feed, her plants to water. Here, in Emma's home, there was so little. Emma saved her all she could. On wash days, Alicia sat in the living room, while Emma and a hired maid operated the big, white washing machine in the basement. Alicia begged, wistfully, to hang the things on the line where the soft, summer wind could tug at them and make them sweet. But Emma laughed protestingly. "If I didn't look after you, Alicia, you'd wear yourself out. You're just a bundle of nerves." When Alicia offered to run the vacuum, Emma smiled. "You're scarcely a mite bigger than the machine, darling. I'll do it. I'm big and strong." Alicia remembered that since childhood Emma had clung to the myth that one so tiny must be ill. "I'm well and strong, too," she remonstrated, and saw Emma's doubtful smile as she tucked a cushion behind Alicia's slim shoulders 685 and patted her hand. She fluttered about her like a mother hen with a sickly chick. "Are you sure you're comfortable, Alicia?" George coddled her too. She must wear her rubbers or take her coat every time she stepped out of the door. He must drive her where she wanted to go and wait for her for hours, whether the weather was hot or cold. She found herself hating to disturb him; and after a while, she stayed at home. Sometimes she scolded herself as ungrateful. But she couldn't help wondering, wistfully, as spring came on with its burst of pussy-willows and tulips edging the walks, if the chickadees were nesting again in the old birdhouse which Bart had built so long ago, or if the lily-of-the-valley was blooming in the south garden. Whenever she got a letter from Bart, she was actually homesick, remembering him as a small, grubby little lad, building a hut by the apple tree, playing skin-the-cat over the old shed. He wrote chatty letters, all about his work at the hospital. "It's lots of fun, darling. Work I'm crazy about. Kids, mostly. These little beggars don't know what mountains are. When I tell them that I used to live in a house where I could look out of the windows and see the Rocky Mountains every day, they just open their eyes and their mouths until they look a little like a Disney cartoon. Just think, Mom, how swell it would be if every one of these kids could live in a house like ours." Alicia felt sad, thinking about all the room, and the house being shut up and nobody living in it. It was a shame. If only those children.... "If only," she sighed, looking at 686 the letter with tender eyes, "I could fix up the house.... " But the thought was too daring. What would Emma say? But it kept coming, again and again, and as each day passed it got stronger and stronger. "I could go back and fix the place up. There are plenty of bedrooms. The children could come. When they went back, they'd be strong and healthy." Her heart ached for those sick little children, but she dared not tell Emma. Emma wouldn't hear of her going back to the old home. DAYS passed and summer came. George came home one afternoon, and nothing could conceal the excitement in his tired eyes. "They're giving me a vacation, Emma. It is sort of a business trip, too. I'm to go to Denver and look over a new project there." Denver! Alicia's heart beat swiftly. That would mean that they would be driving through Salt Lake City. She held her hands tightly together lest she clap them like a child. Oh, if only she could go, too. Emma saw the excitement in her eyes. She smiled. "I'll arrange everything, George," she promised, and could not hide her own excitement. "Alicia can come, too. She's looked a little peaked these last few days. The trip will do her good." Alicia scarcely dared put her hopes into words. She did not look at Emma as she said, "I'd like to go." And then, more daringly, "Perhaps I could stop off in Salt Lake City and visit some friends while you go on to Denver...." She stopped, seeing the look 

 

 in Emma's eyes. For a moment she thought perhaps her sister was going to object. But she kissed her on the top of her snowy crown and smiled kindly. "I think that's just what you need, darling. Perhaps the trip to Denver would be too much for you. You can go as far as Salt Lake, and there you can rest. George's business won't take much more than a week. We'll pick you up on our way back. You'll be so rested, you won't mind the trip home." She beamed and patted Alicia's arm. "You'll be all right." All right! For the first time in her life Alicia almost hated the word. Why should she be all right when there were so many other people in the world who were not? Why should she be taken care of, coddled, treated like a child. She was fifty years old, and never in her life had she done anything that was worth while—except, perhaps, bear her son. She was tired to death of sitting around, letting Emma and George take care of her. Her small chin was suddenly stubborn, as stubborn as Emma's. She was going home to stay! She was going home to her dark, ugly, closed-up house. She was going to write Bart and tell him to send his children there! Ten at a time, if he liked! There was lots of room! She scarcely believed she was herself as she went on making plans. She'd paint, and paper, build windows overlooking the mountains. Those children should look upon the Wasatch and Oquirrh mountains until their eyes and souls were content! She was so excited as she packed REBELLION FOR ALICIA that she didn't mind Emma telling her just what to take. "You'll need your warm coat, darling, and that little hat. It's so much more comfortable wearing a small hat in a car. And don't forget your scarf. It might be drafty." She did everything Emma said, and did it like one in a dream. Once, not meaning to, but exploding with her silent plans, she said, "I suppose Mr. Hacket has the keys to the old house." Emma gasped and looked at George. Almost as though she were talking to someone who had suddenly gone mad, her voice slightly more than a whisper, she said: "Poor Alicia! You mustn't go there! It would be too much for you! Now, darling, promise you won't go near the house." She looked at her anxiously, and Alicia smiled. "Please don't worry about me," she begged. "I'll be all right." Emma tucked her carefully into the back seat of the car and put the scarf about her throat, because George had the front window open. She looked worried. "If I thought this trip would be too much for you, I'd stay at home." Alicia was cold with fear. "Oh, no," she cried, "I'm as comfortable as can be. I've written all my friends, and I'll have a wonderful time." She smiled as Emma shut the door. They were off—off through orange groves, and walnut orchards, through cactus-filled desert, and over the mountains. Then, her friends were clamoring about her, and Emma and George were saying goodby—Emma with sundry pats and instructions. "Be sure and lie down for a little while every afternoon. Mind you don't catch cold...." Her voice 687 flew away as the car started. Alicia waved her hand. That had been two weeks ago. The letter in her hand was to tell her that Emma and George were coming back. It had been delivered at a friend's house, and a small boy had brought it to her door. Alicia finished reading: "I've been so worried about you. I thought George would be through with his business long before this or I'd have insisted that you come with us. However, tomorrow we start back home. We'll call for you at Mrs. Jackson's. I do hope you've had a good time." Good time! Alicia had a very wicked desire to giggle. She'd had the time of her life! There was bright, new paper in the kitchen and a shining, new stove. There'd be lots of cakes to bake, and cookies. The bedrooms were done. Pretty, flowered paper adorned the walls, and tiny ruffled dressing tables were ready for the girls, Animals and clowns frolicked over the paper in the boys' rooms. There were bunks against the walls, and she'd seen to it that the pillows were made of firm, strong ticking. She'd selected the slips with an eye to wear. They could have all the pillow fights they wanted. She found the hammering in the dining room had ceased. When she went in, she saw the carpenter putting away his tools. "All finished, Mrs. Mowbrey," he told her with a proud smile. She went for the broom. "I'll sweep up the shavings," she said, and got quickly to work. She was humming a little as she swept, but she 688 could not have said just what the tune was. Bart had written: "I put five little rascals on the train this morning. They ought to get there day-after-tomorrow..." She straightened suddenly, remembering that on the day after tomorrow Emma would arrive. Her heart beat fearfully. What would Emma say? There'd be a scene. She was sure of that! She stared out of the window, and 

 

 her eyes filled with tears. All of a sudden, she thought she saw the mountain smile. It was ridiculous, of course, but it dried her tears. She attacked the shavings with renewed vigor, and her humming began again. She smiled as she realized her song: "For the strength of the hills, we thank Thee...." Through the window, Bart's beloved mountain seemed to reach out hands to make her strong.