A GALLANT DAY Fear walks in shrouded nakedness At that bleak hour before the dawn. Doom-like his heavy fingers press With skillful accuracy upon Some festering thought. A wound of mind He scalpels to a throbbing ache. Reason seeks helplessly to find Peace in that hour before daybreak. Fear halts—his depredations stopped By burnished arrows tipped with hope. Swiftly his veils of gloom are dropped; Shadows and dread could never cope With clean sunlight. Gallantly the Day Has speared the ghosts of night away. —Reba S. Wetzel. Some Literary Friends Florence Ivins Hyde. "The Right Thing" FROM the beginning of time, the question of what is the right thing has been discussed, but perhaps there has never been a time when the subject could be considered to greater advantage than today. The whole world seems to be in confusion about what is right and what is wrong. We in America hold tenaciously to the philosophy of Thomas Jefferson—"Equal rights to all men and special privileges to none." We see some other nations following the teachings of the German philosopher Nietzsche, that "might is right"—that the world holds two classes of people, masters and slaves, the code of the master being right as long as he can enforce it. We see very little practice of the ancient Golden Rule—do unto others as you would have others do unto you. The Ten Commandments, once accepted as having been written by the hand of God, are looked upon as ideas which were of value thousands of years ago. Many, many people today refuse to accept moral laws. But it is a very significant thing that if anyone encroaches upon the moral rights of these same people, they are the first to object. In a small volume, The Right Thing or How to be Decent Though Modern, Mr. William Oliver Stevens has written a very valuable and interesting discussion of this subject. In his own words, his purpose is to "stir up some real thinking on the subject of right and wrong." The book is particularly valuable for adolescents. It is valuable because national problems of right and wrong can never be solved until we have developed in young people a workable philosophy concerning the smaller things. Young people must learn that the question of what is right does not revolve around the thing they want to do, but rather around the thing that is best for the majority of the group. Mr. Stevens' style is easy. He talks to boys
and girls in their own language, and discusses the vital problems of lying, cheating, smoking, drinking, as well as the important problems of their obligations to society; such as, loyalty and fair play. Throughout the volume there is not a "preachy" sentence, The author places before his readers the simple facts and leaves it to them to make their own decisions as to what their conduct should be. Young people, wherever you go, discuss the problem of right and wrong. Their ideas are not always ours, but their interest indicates that there is a fertile field for the teaching of this most important subject. Our "ideal as Latter-day Saints has always been to teach our children to be militant in defense of the nght. We would feel well repaid if we found them battling for the right and striking 692 down the wrong just as Great Heart battled for it in the story, Pilgrim's Progress. But this cannot be done without developing in our youth a conviction that certain ethical laws are important and necessary in a well-organized society. Mr. Stevens suggests that the moral code is a "set of rules of the game of getting along with others." Laws are built up because all along our selfish desires conflict with our obligations to others. We are "honor bound" to live up to moral laws. The author says the word loyalty is one of the grandest in the language. There is loyalty to our obligation or promise, loyalty to one's country, to one's friends, but the highest type of loyalty and the kind we find least often in our sophisticated society, is loyalty to a principle. "It would be interesting," he says, "to know how many there are in the world today who would actually lay down their lives rather than sacrifice a principle," as has been so often done in past history. "Loyalty is the touchstone of the gentleman. The man who welches on his loyalties will get none from anyone else, and life without loyalties is pretty tough going." 'This quotation is typical of the easy, modern style of the author. LYING and cheating are so common that they are now looked upon with indifference. "Lying is popular because it is 'the easy way out for the sneak and the coward, and the world is full of them. Truth— telling takes what. Is known as intestinal fortitude. It is not for the weakling and the yellow. But in the end it is the easiest way out, for no 

 

 one who tells the truth has to worry as the liar does to keep from being found out." Among many students the only humiliation to cheating is in being found out. For some unaccountable reason there is still a strong sentiment among men (and women, too) against cheating at cards. One wonders why? Every Latter-day Saint should read Mr. Stevens' chapter on stealing. Stealing has become a serious problem. Yet it would be difficult to find a person who thinks it is right for someone to steal from him. That stealing is a common habit is evidenced by the fact that one large steamship company has printed on its linen and silver, "Stolen from the Oceanic Steamship Line." Lying is another form of dishonesty which is all too common. Mothers, apparently honest in other trespects, will lie about their children's ages to save a few cents in car fare, From one subway line in New York, 620,000 slugs were dumped into the sea, which represented $31,000 in fares of which the line had been defrauded. A much more serious form of dishonesty is what we call "graft." "Wherever it exists it is a far greater menace to democracy than a whole army of Reds. All grafters are thieves, because they are taking what does not belong to them, and in addition they are cheating on the trust placed in them to administer their duties in the interest of the public. "No one will admit in principle that lying, cheating and stealing are right. Certainly no one would stand for being lied to, swindled or robbed.