Even gangsters insist on honesty to each other, and yet there is an enormous amount of dishonesty SOME LITERARY FRIENDS going on in every walk of life. The guilty people are not merely the gangsters or embezzlers or burglars. They are boys and girls, men and women in the schools, colleges, clubs, churches, and places of public trust. The more one thinks of it, the more out of date the phrase common honesty' appears. What quality is more uncommon? A boy 'swipes' a quarter from his mother's bureau; a dress designer steals a fashion model in a rival's window; the banker plays the market with other people's money; and nations repudiate their debts. Again 'every-_ thing is all right if you get away with it." 'Honesty,' says the proverb, 'is the best policy. It might be well to give it a try." In many walks of life we see the lack of fair dealing. Theodore Roosevelt used to call it the Square Deal. Franklin Roosevelt calls it the New Deal. Whatever we may choose to call it, we must recognize that the other fellow has rights as important as'our own. "The curse of the whole matter in sport or business is the intense urge to win at any cost. The test of fair play is the ability to be fair to one whom you know to be a better man than you, particularly when you are losing. If you can take it then and be a good loser you are a man." SMOKING, drinking, swearing and gambling are looked upon as conventional vices. They ate not taken as serious vices today. All too often smoking is learned at Mother's knee. Yet if it was ever harmful it is still harmful, in spite of the fact that it is almost universal. Mr. Stevens tells of the physical effects of nicotine and ends by saying, "The 693 non-smoker is just now out of fashion, but he has the satisfaction of knowing he is a free man." The principal objection to swearing is that it is the profaning of something fine. The thing that has made gambling "rank low on the black list of vices is that the passion to win something for nothing becomes a vice no less gripping than that of morphine. The only man who wins consistently at gambling is the man who deals the deck and spins the wheel. The casino and the palaces at Monte Carlo were built by the money of fools." In the face of all the claims made by advertisers in favor of wines and Jiquors, the fact remains that perhaps "not one single thing has done so much to ruin lives as this same old Demon Rum. The notion that it stimulates the brain to wit and gaiety is all bunk," says Mr. Stevens. Under its influence a person's natural restraints of decent behavior are broken down and "he thinks he is being funny when he is only being a fool." To sum it up, alcohol deadens the senses and breaks down the inhibitions set up by good breeding. It tends to create a habit which, at worst, wrecks a man or woman intellectually, physically, and morally. The simplest answer is to leave it alone. As to the difficult subject of sex, Mr. Stevens discusses the consequences of immorality very plainly and intelligently, and concludes by saying, "Don't get morbid; remember that while some have. Made a mess of their lives on account of sex problems, others have licked them as they have licked every other test of their strength. Anyone can follow the crowd, but it takes a real man 694 to be different." The matter of being honest with one's self is one of the most important but difficult problems of life. Intellectual dishonesty is not uncommon. One of the hardest tests of man's self-discipline is the ability to look at something he wishes to do and see it for exactly what it is. But the man who can do this is not likely to per- "form an act that he knows is wrong. This book, The Right Thing, starts out with the accepted fact that most young people think they are not interested in religion. The author says: "It all depends on what that poor abused word means. If a man conscientiously holds to certain standards above his own selfinterest, for which he would sacrifice the things that other men desire, that man is a religious man.... The supreme test of civilization in any people, or any individual, is the point 

 

 they have reached in being able to tell right from wrong, and in their strength to embody that distinction in their own lives. Abraham thought God would be pleased to have him offer his choicest possession, his son. But the psalmist later said that the only sactifice acceptable to God is a 'broken and a contrite heart.' But we have not caught up with that yet." Then the author concludes: "The answer to the question—right or wrong?—is the most important thing in the life of a nation or an individual. These pages will lead to debate, and you will learn something about your own principles of conduct. The best result this book can achieve will be to start each reader into doing some thinking for himself." Quotations are used by permission of the publishers, Dodd, Mead and Company.