Therefore, the mother who is a housekeeper may Carry on a career outside of the home without undue interference with the management of the house, LESSON DEPARTMENT provided she is willing to pay for trained help. Without her the house may still be a delight to the eyes of all who enter it; its dustlessness, the precision with which everything, important as well as unimportant, is in its prescribed place fairly startles everyone. However, it makes one feel decidedly uncomfortable and out of place, especially if he is not immaculately dressed. The housekeeper cannot accompany her husband on a necessary business trip into the country on Monday morning because it is washday, and the clothes must be on the line by ten o'clock. Therefore, the husband may go alone on such trips, always wishing his wife were with him; later, for the sheer sake of company, he may invite some one else to accompany him. The housekeeper cannot go with son Charles to participate in Parents' Day at school on Friday because it is the regular cleaning day, and the cleaning must be done. If it were just that Charles were disappointed that one day the results would not be so serious, but the real harm is the attitude which Charles develops as a result of feeling that he is not as important to his mother as his friends are to their mothers and that his mother does not love him in the same manner as other mothers love their sons. Now, if perchance some ten years later Charles gets into trouble, his mother will undoubtedly reproach him for not confiding in her; and most likely, it will be almost impossible to make her understand that this lack of confidence began when Charles was a tiny tot who needed her companionship and guidance. But she had been too busy housekeeping to 79 devote time to Charles, other than to teach him habits of cleanliness and orderliness of body and house. Mr. A said that during the ten years he and Mrs. A were saving to build the new house, he constantly pictured himself, filled with pride, walking up to the snowy-white entrance of their colonial-type home, throwing open the door and. Finding his wife ready to. Greet him?both of them thrilled with the thought that this was their own home. Instead, never once during the three years they had been living in the new home has he ever entered the front door unless guests were with him. Mrs. A insists that he always tracks in dust on his shoes, and it ruins the appearance of the elegant carpet. So Mr. A always saunters around to the back door and is always greeted by his wife with the same words, "I am so tired I can hardly stand up. The care of this big house is simply killing me. I do nothing but clean from morning till night, except when I am getting your meals ready." Mr. B said, "Before we moved into our new house we always spent the evening in the living room. I could move the easy chair wherever I wanted it, and sometimes I even went to bed without putting the newspaper in its place. But now we spend all our evenings in the little back room that was intended for my den. Somehow, I felt more at home and at ease in the old house." Mrs. B has the reputation of being the most particular housekeeper in the community; and she does not intend to Jose it, even though it is the source of ninety per cent of the nagging which causes misery to every member of the family.