[Vol25 | October 1938 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature for Missions]

Literature for Missions TYPICAL WOMEN OF THE CHURCH Lesson 4
Lijpa Maianna KUIPER DE JONG (HOLLAND) Nobility ls FOUND IN Every LAND THE subject of this short biographical sketch is unlike the other persons described in this series of articles in that she did not become a convert to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in her native land. On the other hand, it seems clear to those who know her and her family that the affairs of the de Jong family were definitely directed by the power of the Lord in order to bring her and hers to the headquarters of the Church. Lijda Marianna Kuiper was born on April 28, 1870, in the place called *tLoo, near Apeldoorn, Holland, where her parents lived on a small farm. Her father, Teunis Kuiper, was also employed as a gardener on the estate of the King, later of the Queen of Holland.
Lijda was the second child in a family that ultimately counted thirteen children. Her schooling came to an end with her twelfth year, when she moved to the capital to work for her own support. Teunis Kuiper and' his wife were members of the Dutch Orthodox Church and were always extremely devout. The effects of spending her early years in this deeply religious atmosphere are noticeable even today. In Amsterdam Lijda became acquainted with and later married Gerrit de Jong, who was employed in a wholesale dry goods firm that did an international business. His mother belonged to the Mennonite Church, while his father, though inactive, was listed on the books of the Roman Catholic Church.
Gerrit followed his mother's religious persuasion and became a member of her church.
After their marriage both Lijda and her husband attended this church regularly. To this union two children were born: a boy, also named Gerrit, and a daughter, Trijntje.
Desirous of giving their children an education the pair soon ventured into business for themselves, in which they were unusually successful, due largely to the untiring work and business ability which Lijda added to that of her husband. It should be noted that up to this LESSON DEPARTMENT point in her life she had not come in contact with the Church in any direct way.
Because of the fact that the dry goods establishment which she helped her husband conduct was located just around the corner of a street on which the Latter-day Saints had rented a hall, Lijda and her husband visited a Mormon service once or twice, and were impressed with the practicality of the teachings given by the missionaries stationed there.
Among these was Nicholas G. Smith, now a member of the Salt Lake Temple presidency. He used to come to the de Jong store occasionally as a customer and there became better acquainted with the family. Lijda's younger sister Marie had previously joined the Mormon Church and because of this was thereafter considered an outcast by the large Kuiper family.
Lijda and her husband, however, showed more tolerance and always remained friendly to her, and corresponded regularly with her after she had gone to the Mission Home in London, England, to be employed there.
When later Marie moved to Salt Lake City the correspondence continued.
Apart from these indirect contacts the Church played no part in the life of the de Jong family. In spite of their material prosperity and the comparative contentment that a well respected place in their community and society brought them, the de Jongs were not satisfied with their lot and seemed to be reaching out for something not yet clearly defined.
Lijda often prayed that for the sake of the family life the way might be opened for her to be relieved of the necessity of working incessantly with her husband in his business. As if in direct answer to her prayer, something did happen that radically changed the course of their existence. One night a devastating fire completely wiped out their business enterprise.
This left them face to face with the choice of either beginning all over again or emigrating to a new country. The latter was decided upon. Now, at that time a new country almost invariably meant America. Since Lijda's sister Marie, the only person in America they knew well, happened to be living in Salt Lake City, it was decided to move to that city.
Thus it was that with her husband and two children Lijda sailed from Rotterdam on the steamer Potsdam in July, 1906, with the headquarters of the Mormon people as her destination. As if it were a good omen indicative of their future, the first person met after arriving in Salt Lake City was Nicholas G. Smith, the same Mormon missionary who had shopped in their store in Amsterdam. In his great surprise he could not refrain from exclaiming that he had certainly never expected this family to meet him in Zion. The family settled in the Seventeenth Ward, where Elder Smith lived.
Soon they made many friends among their Mormon neighbors and were receiving the frequent visits of faithful block teachers and others desirous of bringing them the Gospel message.
They were invited to attend the sacrament and auxiliary organization meetings of the ward. All became diligent investigators of the doctrines preached and lived by their new friends. In 1907
Lijda, her husband, and her daughter, were baptized into the Church, and the son joined the following year. All have been staunch members of the Church since that time. For her naturally religious inclinations Lijda found a better opportunity for complete expression than ever before, and in the Mormon philosophy of life she recognized that at-one-time undefined something for which she had been longing before coming to America. It must not be supposed that Lijda was spared the many hardships that those who are found by the Gospel in foreign countries have to endure. There were varied difficulties: those incident to the learning of a new language; the task of establishing a new home in a nation where living conditions differed from those she had been accustomed to; the necessity of finding a different occupation for the husband who could not carry on his own work because of the language handicap. Throughout all these vicissitudes Lijda showed herself at all times helpful, resourceful, and above all, willing to do a great deal of hard work to maintain her newly established home. This was especially true during the two years (1909-11) her husband was in his native land as a missionary for the Church. Sister de Jong bears a strong testimony of the divinity of the restored Gospel and shows her devotion to the cause of truth by living an exemplary Latter-day Saint life. By nature she has always been very active, and membership in the Church of Christ has given her welcome opportunities for using her activity to a good purpose. She takes pride not only in serving, but in serving well even in little things. Among those in need she is known for her unbounded generosity, and an eagerness to work for the welfare and happiness of others. The home she maintained both in Europe and America has always been the rendezvous of numerous friends. Her greatest satisfaction, however, comes from the thought that, through the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE instrumentality of the Church, her wish for the success of her children has been quite fulfilled. Her son is a recognized scholar, holds a responsible position in the educational work carried on by the Church, is a high councilor in his stake, a member of the Deseret Sunday School Union general board, and a member of the General Music Committee of the Church. Her daughter is an ardent Church worker, having served as Relief Society president in her ward, and in other capacities. Now the third generation, Sister de Jong's ten grandchildren, are carrying on the work of service in which she has such an enviable record. Her sterling qualities have inspired a host of others besides her own children to be just, fair and to achieve spiritually as well as materially.
Topics for Consideration
1. The foregoing sketch of Lijda de Jong is brief but what evidence in her life do you find that "God moves in a mysterious way His wonders to perform."?
2. Why do you think that to "judge a tree by its fruit" is to use a good method of judging?
3. Learning from the text the quality of her children what kind of woman do you believe her to be?
4. State Lijda de Jong's chief qualities.
5. How do you explain the fact that she did not join the Church in Holland?
6. State the circumstances of her joining the Church in Salt Lake City.
7. What evidence have you for believing she is an excellent Latter-day Saint?
Social Service
Lesson 4
Should I Be Afraid?
I. The Lesson in Brief. "Fear arises when we know enough to recognize the potential danger in a situation but have not advanced to the point of complete comprehension and control of the changing situation." (Jones, Mary C. "Emotional Development." Chap. 6. P. 276, Handbook of Child Psychology, Ed.
By Carl Murchison.) The danger we seem to see in a situation need not be real danger. Fears based on imagined danger are most difficult to eradicate. The avoidance of the fear producing situations promotes ignorance of the true facts, and the ignorance in turn permits fear to run rampant. As we learn the facts, we gain control of the situation and fear is overcome. Some fears of childhood persist in adult life, some from severe emotional shock and some from teachings of parents, playmates, and others. Most adult fears, however, are based on a sense of insecurity as to financial and vocational status, health and welfare of loved ones, and one's spiritual standing with God. Vague fears and anxiety, when given no task upon which to work, dissipate more energy than hard work. "Constructive worrying" is suggested as a method of removing the cause underlying the fear, a means of putting fear to work. Some applications of Latter-day Saint philosophy to the problem of fear are suggested, and a guide to the management of fear is given in summary.
II. Why Are We Afraid? We are perhaps safe in assuming that every normal adult experiences certain kinds of fears.
When we recognize in a situation factors which we think are not likely to be for our good, we usually withdraw from the situation.
Fear is a type of withdrawal. In confronting circumstance which has in it elements which are clearly dangerous to our welfare, or which we vividly imagine are dangerous, we experience an emotion of fear and withdraw promptly. In withdrawing, we afford ourselves an opportunity to survey conditions from a distance and to recruit our resources for the struggle, if that is what is required. We may then become angry as we recognize what it is that is threatening us. In children, fears are based on a lack of knowledge and how to control potentially harmful conditions.
Darkness is fearful because children do not know what might be there, and can therefore make no better adjustment to the situation than to take the benefit of the doubt and withdraw.
They probably have an inborn fear of loud sounds such as thunder; and when this is coupled with darkness and lack of understanding of what thunder is, the child develops intense fear. In the lesson on emotion, we saw that fear is the emotion which usually appears when conditions get out of control and the possibility of harm appears quite clear to us. The uncertainty of outcome is characteristic of fear producing situations. If fears were always based upon fact, they would be quite amenable to control; many of our most besetting fears are not based upon actual danger, but upon imagined danger.
When the conditions promoting fear are imagined there is nothing concrete to attack in the effort to remove them. Thus, the person who fears the last days and approaching destruction of the world, fears an idea that can neither be proved nor disproved; he is quite likely to persist in his fear.
People who fear that they are being pursued by evil spirits, fear something that reason and proof seem incapable of removing. An investigation (Jersild and others, 1933) of the fears of four hundred children from five to twelve years of age showed that 21.1 per cent of all the fears named first were fears of the supernatural, of mystery, skeletons, corpses and death; 17.8 per cent were fears of animals; 14.1 per cent were fears of strange happenings and places, of being in the dark; 8.8 per cent of nightmares and apparitions; fears of bad people, kidnappers, robbers, etc., constituted 7.3 per cent of their fears.
Most of these fears are irrational and the treatment suggested was as follows: "The most effective techniques in overcoming fears are those that help the child to become more competent and skillful and that encourage him to undertake active dealings with the thing that he fears." (Jersild, A. T., and Holmes, F. B., "Methods of Overcoming Fears." Jl. Of Psychology, 1936, Vol. 1, p. 102, see also pp. 75-104.) In the foregoing survey, not a single child mentioned a single experience with the object it feared. The conclusion first to come to mind is that most of these fears were acquired from parents and playmates, or other persons, whom the child has heard air their feelings about these objects. For a truth, most of the fears children have are those he learns from his associates, since there seem to be no complete inherited fears.
Adults may have persistent fears which to them seem ridiculous because they are so childish.
These persistent fears are sometimes extremely annoying because they resist treatment.
Generally they can be traced to vivid experiences in childhood, if a thorough enough search is made.
They may be fear of water, fear of a certain kind of animal, or even fear of a certain kind of people with a specific peculiarity. An exhaustive search into one's remote past often reveals that some severe shock was experienced in connection with objects of a given kind.
Because the origin of the fear is so remote, we often have completely forgotten the circumstance. A tendency of our memories to obliterate unpleasant events aids in this process of forgetting the cause of fear. In some cases, simply to uncover the origin will forthwith remove the fear, but more commonly the fear remains even after we know how it developed. It is then necessary to recondition ourselves to the fear-arousing objects, by approaching them simultaneously with some pleasant object, or sometimes by simply acquainting ourselves with them so thoroughly and so often that they lose their fear-exciting force. It is possible to retain irrational fears that are not of this origin, but those we simply absorb from the people with whom we grow up.
Even as adults we are often needlessly afraid of snakes of a harmless nature, afraid of thunder, afraid of being left alone at nights, and afraid of ghosts.
Much help may be gained by simply thinking these fears through in a rational way and attempting to gather all the information we can to show how needless they are.
There is a distinct difference between intelligent caution where actual danger is present, and fears that are not based on real danger and which therefore serve no purpose in protecting ourselves.
LESSON DEPARTMENT III. We Do Not Stop to Investigate What We Fear. The very nature of fear leads us away from the object we fear. We, therefore, do not linger to learn much about that object, as we would about one that arouses pleasant emotions. To practice one of the best cures for fear, however, we must work exactly contrary to this natural withdrawal impulse, i. e. we must approach the object and find out as much as we can about it. We must inquire either to determine that our fear is unfounded in fact, or to learn more about what is required to make the proper adjustment to the situation. When we run away, we rarely accomplish either purpose. If we hear strange sounds at the window and hurriedly hide in the closet, we do not learn that perhaps boys are playing a prank and that there is no need to fear; nor on the other hand do we learn that someone is molesting our property and that we should call for the police. Our primitive ancestors feared thunder and lightning as the acts of wrathful gods; they knew none of the laws of nature as we do today. Superstitions are attempts to explain away fears that do not have a more logical explanation. Among uncultured peoples even today we find innumerable superstitions of this kind. When we know all about a thing, we are in a better position to control it if it is dangerous, and not to fear it if we understand that it is harmless. Civilized people are therefore less afflicted with fears of natural phenomena. Civilized peoples have their own variety of fears, however, which are none the less energy consuming. Most of our major adult fears are of social consequences, such as the fear of financial or vocational failure and disgrace, fear of creating enemies, and fear of broken health and consequent inability to meet one's responsibilities. These fears are not exactly an outcome of lack of information, although in some cases they are more imaginary than real, and one does well to determine always exactly how much real fact there is behind any fear in order to make a more intelligent adjustment if the fear is well founded or to dispel it if there is no basis for it. We often are "afraid to find whether it is true" that we may need an operation, for example.
IV. Adult Fears are Usually Based on a Sense of Insecurity. What, then, shall we say is the basis of most adult fears? If we have disposed of certain irrational fears which carry over from either childhood crises or social influences from those with whom we have grown up, what shall we say of the fears that do not seem to fit into this interpretation and treatment? The constantly apprehensive and fearful person will be found on careful study to be usually a person with feelings of insecurity, and this feeling often arises from having failed to reach one's ambitions in life, from a habit of constant failure, or perhaps from a deep sense of sin arising from an over-strict conscience. Personalities of this kind often can be traced to parent-child relationships which were either over-solicitous or overprotected and over-restrictive. A normal sense of responsibility and courage to face the world as it is can hardly develop in the child when the parents shelter him from every possible danger and do all of his thinking. Fears in adults often reflect a lack of normal broad experience, a lack of control over the world they meet, which comes only through continued success in dealing with difficult problems. Among conscientious, religious people, one of the most common sources of fear is the sense of guilt for not having complied with every letter of the religious or moral code. This source of fear is most common among the people who have lived so uprightly that their little "sins" are hardly serious enough to worry about. The fact that they have a guilty conscience at all is fair sign that they have lived uprightly, for those who live wicked lives have no conscience to prick them when they side-step. Religious teachings are sometimes misconstrued by people with a sense of guilt to mean that they have lost their place in the esteem of God. We somehow easily come to feel that sins are such permanent stains on our record. Why not think of repentance as a process of education? As we learn, we repent of our ignorance and grow spiritually. So long as we see the error of our ways, whether they be called sins or mistakes, and promptly mend them, we re-enter into the grace of God through the door of repentance, the second principle of the Gospel. This door is always open. God could not be pleased to see progress hampered by a lingering sense of guilt, no matter what our folly may have been. A good conscience and sincere faith in God know no fear. The Gospel as taught by Jesus was a Gospel of love, not one of fear.
V. Vague Fears and Anxiety Expend More Energy Than Heavy Work. A brilliant medical student was approaching the final examinations on a year's heavy course. Suddenly he went completely to pieces. He said he had worked himself to death over his examinations. The report was carried to some of his professors and a request made for an extension of time for preparing for the examinations. One professor seemed indignant at the suggestion that a student had worked himself into such a condition. He said, "Tell me about his financial and romantic worries and I shall tell you better why he broke down." Investigation revealed that he had secretly married while at school and that his widowed mother had learned of his action and had threatened to cut off his financial support. These worries in turn had kept him from applying himself to reviewing the year's work. It soon became apparent to him that he probably would fail his examinations on this account. All of these worries soon combined into a vicious circle which finally dissipated his mental energy to the breaking point. After the examinations had been postponed and the domestic and financial worries intelligently met by both the young man and his mother, he recuperated and finished his schooling with a good record. While it is true that worry and fear thrive better when a person is fatigued and ill, they may equally well cause fatigue and illness. A definite task, however difficult and unpleasant it may be, is a challenge to which one may apply his fullest energies. Effort that leads to goals is not so fatiguing as effort spent in worry and fear with no concrete accomplishment. Worrying may become an effective use of energy only in so far as it leads to a direct attack on the situation which produces the worry. Fear is unlike anger in that it runs away from the situation, while anger leads to attack. Fear that does not lead to an objective effort to remove the cause may easily spread to other circumstances and leave the person in a general state of anxiety.
VI. All Normal People Have Handicapping Fears. Life abounds with opportunities for growth for everyone. They are often overlooked because they present themselves to us as challenges for us to do something we probably have not done before. We are afraid to do the things at which we have not already succeeded. But they are the very challenges that make us grow. "Courage comes in having been there before." Any of us are likely to fear entering into those undertakings in which we have not previously tested our strength. Most of us would not think of accepting an invitation to sing in public, because we could not enhance our value in the eyes of others. No one would advise plunging into those challenges in which failure is evident before beginning, but everyone could profit by the habit of accepting gradually greater challenges as his strength grows. There is infinite human waste as a result of the almost universal fear of trying to do tasks a little more difficult than people are used to doing. It is possible to acquire the habit of laughing at fearful situations; it somehow gives a playful spirit which adds great zest to the adventure of finding a more enriched world for ourselves.
VII. Factors in Latter-day Saint Teachings Which Allay Fears. There is much in Latter-day Saint philosophy to give one a sense of security. Most everyone, whether religiously inclined or not, at some time or another becomes anxious about the final destiny of his spirit. Much satisfaction may be gained by the assurance that the spirit survives the body and that our ultimate destiny is more secure than the clay of which we are formed. The Atonement grants us the assurance that we shall all be made alive again: "For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive again." (1. Cor. 15:22.) There is no better safeguard against the fear of death than an implicit faith in the Atonement. Faith, the first principle of the Gospel, is psychologically the opposite of fear. "Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen." (Heb. 11:1.) Where we cannot see, faith hopes for the best, fear runs away with an anticipation of the worst. That it was not the spirit of Christ to leave people who had sinned with a condemned spirit to handicap their progress was illustrated in the incident of the woman who was brought to Christ to be condemned for a grievous sin. "But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground, as though he heard them not. So when they continued asking him, he lifted himself up, and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her. And again he stooped down, and wrote on the ground. And they which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience, went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, even unto the last: and Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst. When Jesus had lifted up himself, and saw none but the woman, he said unto her, Woman, where are thine accusers, hath no man condemned thee? She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more." (John 8: 1-11.) The teachings of Christ are replete with reassuring thoughts: "Peace on earth good will toward men"; "Fear not, and be not afraid"; "If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth." There is strength to ward off fear and insecurity in the answers our philosophy gives to the questions of the great verities: the existence of God, the origin and destiny of man, and the free agency of man to work out his own salvation. A well thought out and sincerely believed philosophy of life assists materially in the great struggle against insecurity and anxiety. It gives direction to our living, and no one is more insecure than he who does not know where he is going.
VIII. A Guide for Preventing and Overcoming Fears.
1. Acquire the habit of prompt investigation of the circumstance underlying fear. Don't let a fear become a habit.
2. Look for the cause of persistent and unexplained fears. Search out your childhood experiences, if necessary. Find out what kind of teaching you were given as a child with regard to the object of your fear.
3. Don't be apprehensive over slight lapses in conduct. If your conscience bothers you over small "sins" it proves you have lived so well that your conscience is still alive.
4. Cultivate the general life habit of undertaking tasks you are reasonably sure of accomplishing. Gain self-assurance by the habit of success.
5. Avoid extreme fatigue, and maintain good physical condition.
6. Cultivate the habit of "constructive worrying" to replace destructive anxiety. Do something!
7. Uncondition fears by associating fearful circumstances with pleasant surroundings. Gradually accustom yourself to being in the presence of the fearful object without being afraid.
8. Learn to see the humor in fearful situations.
9. Don't fight fear directly, but fight the situations which produce fear.
Problems for Discussion
1. Enumerate some fears that are valuable in making a good adjustment. Name a few that serve no worth while purpose.

 . Discuss two general classes of fears that may carry over from childhood into maturity. Why do you suppose these fears are so persistent? 3. Discuss the relationship between ignorance and fear. Show how ignorance and fear are combined into a vicious circle. 4. What is the chief characteristic of most normal adult fears which have not been carried over from childhood? 5. Recommend a rule for "worrying effectively." 6. Give your ideas on the role of a sense of guilt in producing fears and anxiety. Refer to Church teachings which would tend to discourage a sense of sin. 7. Show how the habit of success and adult courage are related. 8. How does childhood training for a normal sense of independence contribute to courage in meeting adult problems? 9. Show how Latter-day Saint philosophy contributes to a sense of security in meeting the great verities.
References for Further Study
1. Burnham, H. W. The Normal Mind, pp. 417-450. New York; Appleton, 1924.
2. Louttit, C. M. Clinical Psychology, pp. 465-472. New York: Harpers, 1936.
3. Morgan, J. J. B. The Psychology of Abnormal People, pp. 243-249. New York: Longmans, Green, 1928.
4. Morgan, M. J. B. Keeping a Sound Mind, pp. 63-98. New York: Macmillan, 1934.
5. Overstreet, H. A. About Ourselves, pp. 123-136. New York, Norton, 1927.
6. Sadler, W. S. Theory and Practice of Psychiatry, pp. 974-978. St. Louis, Mo.: Mosby, 1936.