[Vol25 | October 1938 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Time]
times happens that great men in their own right are eclipsed or overshadowed by some more famous individual in the same family.
Such was the case with Andrew. When Peter became the leading light among the Twelve, Andrew seems to have become known as "Peter's brother." (See Matt. 4:18; 10:2; John 1:40.) Andrew was a fisherman of Bethsaida in partnership with his brother. His name was of Greek origin as was Philip's and shows the influence of Greek culture upon the Hebrew society in which both moved. The Gospel of John reveals the interesting fact that Andrew was a follower of John the Baptist when he first met the Christ. (1:35-40.) His spiritual insight seems to have been deep for when John said, "Behold the Lamb of God" he immediately followed the Christ and "abode with him that day."
That our Lord made a profound impression upon Andrew is clearly discerned in John's record which says, "He finds first his brother Simon, and says to him, We have found the Messiah, which is being interpreted, Christ. He brought him to Jesus." (1:41, 42.) Andrew was one of those men?all too rare?who eagerly desire to share their good fortune with others. In this particular instance he was literally a "home missionary" and played an important part in starting his brother on his remarkable career.
John relates another interesting incident about Andrew. In the story of the feeding of the Five Thousand the account runs as follows: "One of his disciples, Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter, says to him, There is a lad here who has five barley loaves and two small fishes; but what are these among so many?" (John 6:8, 9.) There does seem to be incredulity here, but possibly there is hope as well that the Master would use his supernatural powers and provide what was needed to feed the multitude. In our sketch of Philip we mentioned the incident in which certain Greeks came to him desiring to see the Savior. But Philip first consulted Andrew. (John 12:20-22.) The latter must have had qualities of mind and heart that made him a good man to confide in or counsel with. The record points out that Andrew and Philip came to the Christ. Apparently Andrew's association with Greeks had made him more liberal in his views toward foreigners than most Jews, but he felt it wise to consult the Master in relation to his desires.
Andrew was with Peter, James, and John on a certain occasion when they privately asked the Savior about certain great events that were to take place in the future according to our Lord's predictions. "Tell us," they said, "when will these things be. And what is the sign when all these things are about to be completed?" The Christ then related to them great and remarkable events that were to involve the Jewish nation and in general those which were to transpire before his Second Advent.
Aside from the incidents we have related little or nothing more is known of Andrew's life.
Many fanciful legends grew up about his person and work in the centuries following his death. St.
Andrews in Scotland is named after him and was for a long time the ecclesiastical capital of the Scots.
Questions and Problems (Deal only with as many as time permits.)
1. Think of all the reasons you can why the Savior should give privileges to Peter, James, and John that he did not give to other members of the Twelve.
2. Some people find it hard to understand why the Christ should choose the Sons of Thunder (James and John) to be his close disciples when they had such fiery and resentful spirits. (Luke 9:52-55.) How would you explain? Note: The term Boanerges is thought by the best modern authorities to mean "sons of rage" and not "sons of thunder." (See Mark 3:17.)
3. Compare our conception of the organization of the Presidency of the Church with that of our Catholic friends.
4. What traits of character did James seem to have in common with his mother?
5. Briefly outline the substance of the teaching the Christ imparted to Peter, James, John, and Andrew respecting the future. (See Mark 13; Matt. 24, 25; Luke 21:5-36; "An Extract from a Translation of the Bible," Pearl of Great Price.)
Visiting Teacher Department
Messages to the Home
No. IV?Sensitivity to the Needs of Others
"Be ye therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful."?Luke 6:36.
