NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 641
I need to but state that at our conference held last January the report showed that they had traveled about 4,500 miles through country districts without purse or scrip. Since conference they have traveled a total of 1,500 miles in the same manner. We feel that the Lord is constantly blessing us and we are desirous of doing our full part. Although there is much bitterness on every hand, we are and have been very successful in making a great many friends and some of them influential ones."
Australian Mission.
Mrs. Mary J. Miller, wife of President Arnold D. Miller, writes that the Relief Society Magazine brings joy and encouragement to the women in this mission. We regret very much that there are no branches of the Relief Society in this mission at present, and hope that as soon as war conditions improve the Relief Society work will be organized. However, the women are doing a great deal of Red Cross work, and are giving neighborly assistance and encouragement to each other.
Tonga Mission  Friendly Islands.
President Willard L. Smith, of the Tonga Mission, reports that there are in this mission two fully organized Relief Societies and that in three other branches the sisters are organized with the branch elders in charge. In a short time the members in these latter branches will be able to take direct charge of the work. Gatherings are held weekly and are greatly enjoyed by the members. The members are at the present time gathering means for the temple in Hawaii, each making a weekly contribution. The Relief Society work is presided over by Mrs. Willard L. Smith.
OUR OCTOBER CONFERENCE.
Our October conference, both Relief Society and General, were among the best and most profitable events ever held in this city. Our honored leader, President Joseph F. Smith, attended the various sessions of the General Conference. President Emmeline B. Wells attended each session of both conferences. Their presence was both a power and an inspiration. The faith of the people has again triumphed, and our gratitude was unbounded. The Church assembled there through its representatives voted to buy another $250,000 worth of Liberty Bonds, making in all $750,000 which this Church has invested in this patriotic enterprise. Certainly we are proud and grateful to be members of this inspired Church.