[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | October | Issue: 5 | Title: THE NATION IN MOURNING. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

THE NATION IN MOURNING.

	The telegram received in this city of the
shocking tragedy that had just occurred
plunged the whole community into deep
sorrow and mourning. In fact the news
seemed to be overwhelming.
	“Buffalo, September 6.—President Mc-
Kinley was shot twice in the stomach here
this afternoon at the Temple of Music.
His condition is serious. Two shots took
effect in the stomach. He is now at the
hospital in the Pan-American grounds. He
was shot by a stranger.
	“The President is fatally wounded. He
was shot in front of the Ethnology building
while on his way to the Temple of Music.
	“The President is fatally hurt. One shot
passed through his left breast and another
entered the abdomen.
	“The President was shot by a well dressed
man with whom he was shaking hands.
As the man approached the President it is
said he had the revolver covered with a
handkerchief and as he reached out his
hand to shake the President’s hand he fired.
Later the bullet, which had lodged against
the breast bone was extracted. The Presi-
dent was resting easy afterwards..”
	The first bulletins issued by the physi-
cians were not of a hopeful nature, yet the
people gradually hoped and prayed and
waited for further particulars, many be-
lieving that from the news received the
wounds would not prove fatal and the
fatality of the dreadful castastrophe might
be averted. That a man so strong and
vigorous as the President might pull
through; day after day the people anx-
ously looked forward to more assuring in-
telligence, and at length it came. Tele-
grams containing assurances from attend-
ing physicians announced that the Presi-
dent was out of danger, and the people
were rejoicing that his precious life had
been saved to serve his country longer,
when the astounding information spread
[-]ike wild fire that there was no hope.
	Mrs. McKinley had borne up bravely
from the first, and was buoyed up later by
the encouraging reports of the physicians.
It was feared that when she learned the
certainty that the end was not far off, she
would break down altogether, but as our
Father tempers the wind to the shorn
lamb, so He in His infinite mercy gave to
the sorrowing wife grace equal to the try-
ing hour.
	There are no words to express the feel-
ing and sympathy of the people during the
terrible struggle for life through which
President McKinley passed after the fatal
occurrence, and the hero of battles showed
in this fiery ordeal the greatest magnimin-
ty of soul; and when at last he bade his
loved ones farewell his words were char-
acteristic of the divinity that made him
great among men. “Good bye all, good
bye, it is God’s way, His will be done.”
	The heart of the nation is bowed in

[Column 2]
grief and in mourning, and prayers from
the many thousands are being offered con-
tinuously to heaven for the immediate
friends, that they may have strength and
courage to pass through the crucial ordeal.
	Just one week from the time of the
tragedy this great, good and wise man fell
asleep, to wake no more until the resur-
rection morn. In the full strength of his
mature manhood, in all the vigor of life,
he was stricken down by a cowardly as-
sassin, an enemy, not to the President
himself, but to the institutions and govern-
ment that he represented. Three times
now has the nation been thus stricken,
God grant this to be the last such foul
murder. The strong and forceful address
made by the President at the Exposition
the day previous to the terrible tragedy,
his farewell words to the American people
were strikingly in keeping with his broad
and liberal views, and should be handed
down to the schools and colleges as repre-
sentive of the noble President who died a
martyr to his country, the land he loved,
the cause of freedom, that lay near his
great and noble heart, that beat loyally for
the people who had elected him to the high-
est post of honor in the gift of a free people.
	Much as the nation deplores the calamity
that has overtaken it, there is no time to
sit and mourn, but be up and doing, to
stamp out iniquity, to put down anarchy
and discountenance all that tends to dis-
loyalty and disunion, and if possible pre-
vent any overt act that strikes at the
government of the nation, or its authorized
representatives elected by the people. The
Constitution should be considered sacred
and all laws made in conformity thereto.
	A good man has gone, a great man has
fallen, the people mourn but they must
also strive to carry out the measures and
policy that will preserve the country, so
famed for true liberty from all invaders
from foes without and foes within.
THE NATION MOURNS.
	The Presidents remains lay in state at
Milburn House until Monday morning,
September 16, when his silent form was
borne away to the national capital in
solemn and impressive state.
	Mrs. McKinley and the other members
of the family had entered their car half an
hour before the body arrived. The jour-
ney down in the carriage from the windows
of which she could see the emblems of
mourning, affected Mrs. McKinley serious-
ly, and when she stepped from the carriage
assisted by Dr. Rixey and Abner McKin-
ley, her limbs failed her and she would
have fallen, but for the support accorded
her. She entered the station and was as-
sisted into the car in which she and the
dead President had made the trip into the
city of his death. On the car her relatives
took charge of her and Dr. Rixey gave her
a tonic. Dr. Rixey thinks she will be able
to go through with the state ceremonial at
Washington, but the change of arrange-
ments so that the body shall leave Wash-
ington Tuesday night, was made so as to
avoid too great a strain. “She will be
better in Canton, than any place else,”
said Dr. Rixey.
	The train that bore the President from
Buffalo was a solid Pullman of seven cars,
drawn by two locomotives. Fifteen minu-
tes before the train was scheduled to leave
an engine sped out through the yards with
orders to precede the train by fifteen minu-

[Column 3]
tes and keep the track clear. The train
was under the general charge of George W.
Boyd, assistant general passenger agent
of the Pennsylvania. Assistant Train-
master D. M. Kinney was in direct charge.
Conductor Johnson, who came here in
President McKinley’s train from Canton,
was the Pullman Conductor. Engineer
Edwards was in charge of one engine and
Frank Bishop of the other. The train
crews was made up of picked men in the
Pennsylvania and Pullman companies.
	Behind the engines were the drawing
room cars Raleigh and Belgrade, both de-
voted to members of the press.
	Next came the dining car Waldorf, the
car Naples, intended for Senators, and the
Hungary, for President Roosevelt and the
cabinet. Next to the rear car was the
Olympia, occupied by Mrs. McKinley, and
last of all was the observation car Pacific,
in which the body rested.
	The casket was placed between the win-
dows on the observation car, where it could
be seen by the people as the train went by.
Crepe was draped from the two locomotives
and from the rear of the observation car
and the railings of the car were shrouded
in crepe. The only relief was in two tiny
pilot flags of white on the leading locomo-
tive. The station was absolutely clear.
	The funeral train bearing the body of the
martyred President started on its journey
to the national capitol at 8:34 September
16. Only the engines and observation car
were shrouded in black. The other cars
were unadorned.
	Behind the drawn blinds were Mrs. Mc-
Kinley, President Roosevelt, the cabinet
and other high dignitaries of the govern-
ment. The casket of the President, com-
pletely covered with a beautiful silk flag,
lay on a raised bier in the observation car.
Two sheaves of wheat were crossed above
the breast. A white dove with out-stretched
wings seemed to be raising from the head
of the casket. It was part of an exquisite
floral piece, in which red and white buds
pictured the American flag and the French
colors, a tribute from a Franco-American
society.
	Standing at the foot of the casket was a
soldier of the United States arms, uniformed
and accoutred with a gun at “order arms.”
At the head a sailor of the navy stood at
“attention,” cutlass at shoulder. The lid
of the casket was closed. Just off from the
apartment in a curtained niche, Lieut.
Ebroule, of the army, and Lieut Hamlin,
of the navy, remained on duty, while Col.
Bingham was in general charge of the car.
The other apartment of the car was for the
moment a barrack, guns stacked in the
sections, cutlasses on the seat, and the re-
serve of soldiers and sailors awaiting their
detail at the bar of the dead chief.
	Two narrow, overhanging viaducts under
which the train passed as it drew slowly
out of the station, bent beneath the
weight of crowded humanity. The win-
dows and roofs of the houses and the roofs
of the cars in the yards, were black with
people all uncovered.
	When the train had cleared the city, the
people were still standing at the cross-
roads and in the fields. It ran literally be-
tweet two lines of people. Farmers from
the surrounding country had driven through
the dark hours of the night to be at the
side of the track, where they could pay
their last tribute of respect. At East
Aurora, the first town through which the


[column 1]
train passed, the inhabitants had been
augmented by thousands from the sur-
rounding country. The country schools
along the way, let out, and the children the
President loved so well in life were there to
see his dead body pass. The train slowed
down at every station to allow the people
lined up on either side to get a better
view of the flag-covered casket. The popu-
lation of the little towns along the way,
like Holland, Arcade, Machiaus Junction,
Franklinville and Hinsdale had tripled and
quadrupled. The towns seemed suddenly
to grow into cities. As the train slowed
up, the mourners behind the curtained
windows of the train could hear the tolling
of the bells.
	Olean was reached at 10:29 o’clock.
There were three thousand people at the
Pennsylvania station as the train came to a
stop.

	The body of President McKinley lay in
state at the White House in the famous
East room, the Guard of Honor who
watched by the dead, members of the Loyal
Legion and the G. A. R., silently chang-
ing every two hours. At the head of the
casket an artillery man and sailor; at the
foot a cavalryman and a marine.
	The following day funeral services were
held at the Capitol Building. The casket
was borne into the Rotunda to the strains of
“Lead Kindly Light,” while every one
stood in reverence. The Invocation was
given by Dr. Henry R. Naylor, of the
Washington M. E. Church, then the choir
sang “Sometime We’ll Understand.”
When the echoes of the hymn died away,
Bishop Edward Andrews, of the M. E.
Church, who had come from Ohio to say 
the last words over his life-long friend and
parishioner, made a most eloquent and
feeling address in a sympathetic voice,
thrilling with emotion. It was a magni-
ficent tribute to the great statesman and
chief magistrate of the nation. The address
occupied fifteen minutes, when everyone in
the vast Rotunda rose and hundreds of
voices joined with the choir in singing,
“Nearer My God to Thee.” In the midst
of the singing Admiral Robley D. Evans
silently advanced and placed a blue floral
cross at the foot of the casket. Dr. W. H.
Chapman, of the Metropolitan Church, pro-
nounced the benediction. The lid of the
casket was removed from the face and the
people were allowed to view the President;
coming in at the east door and going out at
the west. No one was allowed more than
a hurried glance, they passed on both sides
of the casket.
	The President’s remains were afterwards
taken by train to his old home in Canton,
Ohio. The funeral cortege was honored
in every city and town upon the way, it is
estimated that from the time the funeral
train entered Pittsburg until it crossed the
Alleghany line, the crowd was not less
than 250,000 people. Salutes were fired
from Mount Washington and the church
bells tolled. But the climax of the great
demonstration was when the train reached
Canton. The half-masted flags were
bordered heavily with black and a big
white streamer, ten feet wide, lettered in
black, “We Mourn Our Nation’s Dead,”
hung across the main street. The church
bells were tolling. Although the clouds
had been lowering all day, the bright sun-
shine greeted the entry into Canton, the
people literally overflowed the streets. The

[column 2]
President’s body was first taken to the
court house and viewed by the masses of
the people—but afterwards brought to his
own home and deposited in his library.
	It is stated there were tons and tons of
flowers; and the collection was probably
the most beautiful ever seen in the United
States, from the four quarters of the earth
came the directions to adorn the bier of
President McKinley with flowers whose
fragrance might be symbolical of the
sweetness and purity of his life. These
tributes were from the monarchs of Europe,
rulers of South America, Governors of
British Colonies in Australia and Canada,
and the Emperor of Japan, and large num-
bers of flowers in elaborate designs from
organizations, fraternal, commercial and
political. It is said the tributes from for-
eign lands were buried beneath the floral
offerings of his owu countrymen.
	The services in the Church at Canton
vere very simple. Opened with an organ
prelude, Beethoven’s Funeral March, then
a quartette of ladies sang, “The Beautiful
sle of Somewhere.” The Hon. O. B.
Milligan delivered the invocation, the 90th
Psalm was read, and from the 15th chapter
of Corinthians, between the 46th and 58th
verses. The President’s favorite hymn,
“Lead Kindly Light,” was sung by two
male and two female voices, and Dr. C. E.
Manchester, of the M. E. Church, made
the address, which was exceedingly elo-
quent, abounding with poetic senti-
ment, expressive of the loss the peo-
ple of the country had sustained in
the death of one so noble. The speaker
alluded to his last visit to Canton, and his
last words as he left them. A short prayer
was offered by Bishop I. W. Joyce and the
hymn, “Nearer, My God, to Thee,” was
sung by the entire congregation, standing.
Monsiegneur T. P. Thorne pronounced
the benediction and the casket was borne
from the Church to the funeral car, and
the procession marched to the cemetery.

	“The church-yard where his children rest,
	The quiet spot that suits him best,
	There shall his grave be made,
	And there his bones be laid.
	And there his countrymen shall come
	With memory proud, with pity dumb,
	And strangers far and near
	For many and many a year,
	For many a year and many an age,
	While history on her ample page
	The virtues shall enroll
	Of that paternal soul.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


