SKELETON OR PHANTOM LEAVES:—The
collection of the various kinds of leaves
having been made, place them in an open
tub or pan, covering them several inches
above the leaves with rain water, then put
them in the open air in full sunlight. Put
a pane or two of glass or a light china plate
over them with a weight sufficient to keep
them well down in the water, the loss of
which by evaporation must be made up by
adding more when needed, to keep up the
quantity. After two weeks examine them
and if some are pulpy, take those out, let
those which have kept well remain, exam-
ine them once or twice a week, do not dis-
turb the water too much; after the leaf has
become slimy and pulpy remove them by
slipping a card under them, and allowing
them to float off into a basin of clear water.
The cleaning process is the next, for which
you will need a stiff camel's hair brush, a
stiff bristle brush and a tooth-brush. Slip
the leaf off upon a piece of smooth glass,
gently pass the brush over the surface, aid-
ing the brush with a stream of water poured
over it carefully. Then slip the leaf again
into the water, and let it float off on to the
glass on the opposite side cleaning that in
the same manner; the green surface must
be entirely removed until nothing but the
skeleton or fibrous veins remain; if the soft
brush will not do it, the stiffer one or the
tooth-brush must be applied; and for some
strong leaves gentle scrubbing is necessary;
it must not be a sweeping motion but a
downward tapping. As fast as the leaves
are cleaned they must be put in clean water
and left until the bleaching process, which
should be done as soon as possible. The
best method for bleaching is with a solution
of chloride of lime, and immersing them a
day or two in a covered dish, in a dark clos-
et, and covered with a folded towel.
To make the solution, take one table-spoon-
ful of chloride of lime in a quart of water,
adding a few grains of citric-acid, shaking
well until dissolved, then bottling the clear
liquid for use. Some experienced operators
prefer using chloride of soda. After bleach-
ing the leaves, put them in clear water for
twenty-four hours, float off on a card and
turn over on a soft napkin, and gently press
until all the moisture is absorbed, and then
curled gracefully or pressed between the
leaves of an old book, under pressure. They
will now bear handling and can be arrang-
ed to suit the taste, under a glass shade or
in a deep recess frame. Frames lined with
dark-colored velvet are very beautiful. A
black cross covered with them is very
pretty. Such leaves as contain tannin should
never be placed with others, such as Oak
and Hazel. A method sometimes used for
these leaves is to put with them a number
of the caddis worms which eat away all of
the soft green part of the leaf, leaving the
skeleton entire. The making up of these
phantom leaves requires tact and nicety,
but the effect is very ornamental.


A little Miss writing to her father on the first
day of her entrance at boarding school said: "The
first evening we had prayers and then singing, and
a passing round of bread which I did not take,
because not being confirmed, I thought I had no
right to take communion. Afterward I learned I
had lost my supper.


The cultivation of such manners as shall ex-
press the best feelings, the noblest thoughts, the
refinement and grace of the mind and the heart,
is a thing which cannot be too highly thought of,
or s[-]t about too soon.


