MISCELLANEOUS.

	WHAT species of love is that which is
never reciprocated?—A neuralgic affection.
	An undoubted truth.—The people
want the gas companies not only to make
their dwellings light, but their bills light-
er.
	England has waged forty-nine wars since
1300; France, thirty-eight; Russia, twenty-
two; Austria, twelve, and Prussia, eight.
	The stone bridge across the river Taff, in
England, was built in 1746. It has a span
of one hundred and seventy feet, and is as
firm to-day as when built.
	CONSIDERATE.—"Now Spriggins my
dear," said Mrs. Spriggins at the theatre
after the first act, "you needn't go out to
get any coffee for I've got a pound in my
pocket."


AT the request of the king of Sweden,
Mme. Nilsson consented to appear as Mar-
guerite in the Royal Theatre at Stockholm.
She has been enthusiastically received in
her native land, and feted and honored as
few but queens ever are.


A curious calculation has been made in
the printing office of a Paris newspaper.
Assuming that a good compositor handles
24,000 letters a day, and that his hand moves
one foot with each letter in taking and set-
ting the type, it will be seen that his hand
travels 43,000 feet, or nearly ten miles, a
day, and in the course of a year, excluding
Sundays, travels fully the distance from
Paris to New York.
	MAKING A FOOL OF ONESELF.—Making a
fool of oneself is with many people a part
of the educational experience of life. Once
brought to the experimental realization of
this fact, one is apt to be wiser ever after.
A man generally makes a fool of himself by
wasting his money; or going into some mad
speculation; or believing in mines and com-
panies that are but traps for the unwary; or
by losing his temper at a critical moment.
A woman manages to do the same thing
through the means of her tongue or her
heart. She talks herself into tribulation:
or she gives her love to some worthless
creature who becomes the bane of her life.
It is over his empty purse that a man gen-
erally stands and clenches his hands, and
mutters, "I've made a fool of myself." It
is over her empty heart that a woman usual-
ly wails forth the same words.
	Let those who would attain real greatness keep
themselves true to their conscience and to their
Creator; let them order their lives with wise sim-
plicity; be frugal in all the substances of life; and
set the example so greatly needed in modern times,
of wholesome moderation. Show by what you
do and by what you are, that you esteem character
above all else.


[Column 1]
	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
