WOMAN'S VOICE.

		OGDEN CITY, Aug. 29th, 1876.
	I wish to say a few words through
your valuable paper; thoughts suggested by
reading an article in the "Sacramento
Daily Union;" it is headed "THE TWO PRO-
PHETS."
	I know that this Gospel is true, and so do
thousands of my sisters, and we wish the
world to understand that we know it is the
church and kingdom of God. In the above
named article the question is asked, "What
will be the situation in Utah on the death
of Brigham Young? The answer, by Joseph
Smith Jr., is this: "I THINK there will be
nothing to hold the people together on
Young's demise." I can answer this ques-
tion according to knowledge and not on a
mere think so. I know that this is the
kingdom of God, and that it will never be
thrown down or given to another people,
but will stand forever; it came not of man
or the will of man, but from God our Eter-
nal Father, and it is His cause and His
work. Mr. Smith's statement in regard to
our leaders and their principles, as well as
their actual lives, are altogether false; and
it is hard work to read, and not attempt to
refute such imputations.
	There are many thousands in comforta-
ble homes through the wise management of
Brigham Young, and the blessing of God
our Heavenly Father, and I am one of
those. It also says we are compelled to
pay the tithing. I answer I have always
paid tithing, but never been compelled to
do so, I have done it from my own free will
and choice, because I knew it to be a com-
mandment of God, and binding upon His
people. It also says that what we term
Celestial Marriage is a heresy. I say it is
a commandment of God to His people, and
the Bible will sanction me in this declara-
tion. Father Abraham practiced this doc-
trine, also Jacob, and God talked with them
face to face," and to Moses and many others.
To the pure all things are pure. Joseph
Smith Jr., calls it immoral and unclean and
says he has fought against it. I am sorry
to hear of any one fighting against it, for
those who will do so will become as dark as
midnight, and will lose the Spirit of God,
if they ever had it.
	We are witnesses for our Father's cause
and kingdom, whether the world believe
us or not, and our witness will stand against
them at the great day of accounts; it will
be a saviour of life unto life, and death un-
to death. Then O let us be valiant my dear
sisters in testimony and witness for God and
His kingdom; I am proud of the EXPONENT
for this purpose.
	I am your sister in the Gospel,
