		BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

							"I your glass,
		Will modestly discover to yourself,
		That of yourself, which you know not of."
	The term young lady as expressed in
"common parlance," means one that dress-
es stylishly; if she has an indulgent father,
one that can be coaxed and wheedled out of
money for a caress, a few kisses, or win-
ning smiles, or, perchance, if the occasion
is urgent, a few sobs and a shower of tears.
Her hair must be frizzed and crimped, and
arranged "a la mode," regardless of facial
or cranial suitability. She is harmonized
and toned down to the level of modern
small talk, and has no disagreeable hob-
bies or opinions to make her offensive
in the eyes of the opposite sex; she is so in-
nocent and unsophisticated that whatever
she does is beautiful, in their eyes at least,
and in whatever she says or does she mani-
fests that she knows the power of sweet
looks and simplicity.
	She never seeks to lighten one's burdens
not even those of her own father or mother;
she is too delicate for any occupation, save
the fancy work she toys with, and she has
no power to strengthen or make happy the
lives of others. Even her little brothers
and sisters are an annoyance to her, she
dislikes children and if she marries never
intends to have any. She expects every
one to accommodate her, or yield her supre-
macy, the best seats, and the first privileges
are hers by right, one would suppose from her
behavior. Her accomplishments are varied
but she excels in none; she sings a little
when it pleases her, or plays a little on the
piano, or guitar, she knows a few French
phrases and has read scores of novels. She
is well versed in small talk and knows how
to flirt to perfection. She can dance all
night, but cannot possibly assist her mother
in sweeping, dusting or any household em-
ployment because it is too fatiguing.
	She ridicules the idea of women taking
any prominent part in any public enter-
prise, or meeting, is disgusted with wo-
men who want to vote, she expects she will
be all right, let the condition of politics or
the national affairs be prosperous or other-
wise, the world is indebted to her, one
would imagine so sure is she of her rights.
	She feels sadly ashamed of the mother
who ventures to suggest the propriety of
being self-sustaining, and her mother would
not by any means, like her to know that
she really had addressed a public congre-
gation.
	She knows nothing of the real worth of
money only as a power to be used for her
comfort, and to procure her kid gloves, em-
broidery, laces and jewelry. She never
thinks of denying herself any pleasure that
it may administer solace to another. SELF,
is her prevailing impulse. Her whole
every-day life is one grand mistake from
beginning to end, and will culminate in a 
grand failure.
	The fashionable young lady estimates
men by their faultless attire, the whiteness
of their hands and teeth, the fashionable
cut of their hair, the peculiar curl of their
mustache, and their polished manners. This
is her "beau ideal" no matter if his mind
is as bare and as unfruitful as the desert of
Sahara, if he possess these qualifications and
added to them has money to board at a ho-
tel or travel about he's a "good catch."
	Is this a fitting example for the daughters
of Zion? and are some of them not trying
to ape these very things, living continually
for the indulgence of SELF, without any

[Column 2]
higher aim than to create and foster admir-
ation?
	When one contemplates the great work
which woman has assigned her upon this
earth, and the necessity of commencing it
early, fostering and inculcating those gen-
uine principles of virtue, chastity, self-de-
nial and true nobility and generosity that
will develop into the most sublime attri-
butes in the character of woman as a wife
and mother, how earnest one should be to
impress upon the minds and hearts of the
daughters of Zion the great importance of
improving time and opportunities.

	"I would not waste my spring of youth,
	In idle dalliance; I would plant rich seeds,
	To blossom in my womanhood, and bear fruit
						When I am old."

	S. L. City, Sept. 23rd, 1876.


