				WOMAN.

	I do not know how I shall throw my ideas
into language, but my theme is Woman! I
fear I shall fail in doing justice to the sub-
ject, yet I will try; I am a woman's friend
in the fullest sense, for I will show how
much we owe to woman! Who gave me
life, naturally speaking? My mother! who
watched over me in my baby-hood, and
boyhood, in sickness and in health? Who
taught me to speak? Who taught me to
pray? My mother! who has watched over
me through the critical moments of youth-
ful life up to manhood? My Mother! Who
told me when I was wild, oh! so wild! to
obey the Priesthood? My Mother! Who
gave me strength to subdue my wild nature
by her kind teachings and wise suggestions?
My Mother! Who on earth are my two
best friends to-day? My wife, and my
Mother; I class them together now, because
I know no difference! Being so blest, should
not woman be my theme? And where can
I get a better subject to write upon? Ladies!
I ask you from 19 to 95—do you ever think
of your position on this earth? The influ-

[Column 2]
ence you throw around, either for good or
for evil? Think of it! Think of the power
you have for good, or its opposite! Do you
realize the life-giving faculty you possess,
like your Mother Earth? Do you try to un-
derstand your present, and your final des-
tiny? Oh! Women! Oh! Girls! if you would
only think, if you would only "take coun-
sel together," and say "come let us reason
together," if this be true, let us take heed and
obey it, what is wrong, let us refuse and
endeavor to appreciate and practice that
which is wise and good. Let me (although
a comparative stranger to many of you)
persuade you to think, think, think of your
position in life! You will say, perhaps, where
is my position? Well, I will try and give
you some of my ideas, but hold! I shall get
myself into a "fix," for I was going to pre-
sent my wife as a specimen! But perhaps
you would say, "oh! he's infatuated." Well
then to suit you I won't take her, but of
course you will let me take my Mother!
My own Mother! My Teacher in early
years, and up to the present time; No, I
hardly dare trust you yet! So I wont take
my Mother! If you all knew her, I would
not fear you censuring me for partiality—
but don't we all love our mothers? Are they
not literally our guardian angels upon the
earth? Yes—and we may add, "We knew it
not!" Now I must finish these desultory
thoughts and ideas, with a few more that
are in my mind. Burns, in speaking of the
works of Nature, says:

	"Her 'prentice Han', she tried on Man,
	And then she made the Lasses, O!"

I believe that God ordained man to be the
Leader and Woman to be his "Help-meet,"
that is, that she should walk foot to foot,
and shoulder to shoulder with her Brother
Man! Why, oh! why cannot you as Sisters,
as Wives, as Mothers, as Women as Girls,
follow in the footsteps of your Brother Man,
if worthy, in whatever capacity, or position
he may stand to you. Give me the woman
who is one with me through the journey of
life, my God, her God, my hope, her hope;
my people, her people. Do I ask too much?
Verily No! There have been many such
women upon the earth, though they are
among the few! but quite enough to re-
deem the sex. Then my sisters, awake
from your lethargy, your apathy, shake off
the listlessness that now enfolds so many
and say we will realize the Mission God has
given us, whether man helps us or not,
whether he owns it or not we WILL be a
Helpmeet for Man.
							IOTA,
	S. L. City, Sep., 1876.


