	HYDE PARK, CACHE Co., Sep. 14, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society met July 18th, for the
purpose of organizing a Retrenchment As-
sociation. Our Bishop was present and gave
us some excellent advice; after which a few
of the sisters made suitable remarks and
the young ladies were organized with the
following officers:
	Sarah James President,
	Ellen Woolf,		}
	Celia Woolf,		}
	Permelia Drury,	}	Counselors.
	Lizzie Thurston,	}
	Rose Hyde,		}
	Orrilla Woolf,	}
	Mary Burnham, Sec'y.,
	Kate Perks, Assistant Sec'y.,
	Rosanna Hurren, Treas.
	We have about forty members, have
made resolutions similar to many that have
been published. The girls all feel pleased
with the arrangement and are energetic in
the work. We hold our meetings once a
week, and should be so glad to have some of

[Column 2]
our sisters from Salt Lake come and talk to
us. We intend to try and live up to our
resolutions and improve day by day. Your
paper is read in our meetings, and we could
not well do without it. Praying God to
bless every effort made for its circulation,
we are
		Yours Truly,
			MARY S. BURNHAM Sec.
				KATE PERKS Ass't. sec.

		ST. CHARLES, Sept. 15th,, 1876.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Report of the Annual Celebration of the
Young Ladies Retrenchment Association,
held in St. Charles, Sep. 6th, '76, just one
year from their organization. Proceedings
commenced at 10 a. m. with singing "Oh ye
mountains high," by the Retrenchment
choir, Opening prayer by Bishop Budge,
singing, "Hard Times come again no
more"—
	The Annual Report was read by the Sec-
retary; items as follows:
	Retrenchment Association of St. Charles,
organized Sept. 6th, 1875, with President,
eight Counselors, a Business Manager or
Superintendent, Secretary, and twenty-sev-
en members. Have held twenty-four meet-
ings and had one party, the proceeds of
which was forwarded to Miss E. R. Snow to
help defray the expenses of the Ladies Fair
at Salt Lake City.
	Then followed select reading and recita-
tions, also singing and music. Speeches
were then made by Pres't. Rich, Bishops
Budge and Hunt; they thought the young
ladies had made great improvement during
one year, said they would be pleased to
meet with them a year from that time, and
see if there would be such a marked im-
provement at the close of another year, as
there had been at this. Meeting was then
adjourned until 2 o'clock p. m. Closing
hymn, "We thank Thee O God for a Pro-
phet"—Benediction by Bishop Hunt.
	We met again at 2. p. m., and commenced
dancing, had songs and recitations at inter-
vals. At five the hall was cleared and ta-
bles arranged for supper. A committee of
six young ladies appointed waited on the
tables, dressed in costumes to represent a
hundred years ago; there were two tables
the length of the hall and about 50 persons
seated at each. Thanks were offered by
Pres't. C. C. Rich; the supper was a com-
plete success and all passed off pleasantly.
When the tables were removed, dancing re-
commenced. The committee danced in
their costumes the rest of the evening,
which created a great deal of mirth; about
8 o'clock in the evening Pres't. Rich made
a few remarks, expressing that it had been
altogether an enjoyable affair; then he with
Bishop Budge, bade the company good
night and started for their home in Paris.
The dance was closed at 11 o'clock in the
evening, all retired feeling-that the spirit
of God had been with them.
	We hold our meetings every two weeks,
and have in each select reading from the
EXPONENT.
