HOME AFFAIRS.
	Thursday Evening, Sept. 21, a Bishop's
meeting was held in the Council House build-
ing, at which time the house was dedicated
for the use of the Priesthood. Elder John
Taylor offered the dedicatory prayer.

	Mr. James Dwyer has gone East to pur-
chase a new and liberal stock of books and
holiday goods; and to attend the great Book
Fair at New York on the 25th of Oct.
	THE SALT Lake Theatre will open on the 5th
inst., and remain open during conference.
The first play presented upon the boards will
be "Through by Daylight" and Mr. Jim Ward
and Miss Winnetta Montague will play the
prinicipal parts.
	THE AMATEUR Dramatic Company who
have been playing for the benefit of Mrs. Ro-
mania Pratt, have succeeded well in Utah
County, having given good satisfaction, and
been renumerated financially, quite equal to
their expectations.
	UTAH MUSICAL TIMES.—We have received
the seventh number of this new magazine.
The editorial "Vocal Music in Schools," we
would recommend specially to the notice of all
interested in the cultivation and education of
the young. It also contains two very sweet
pieces of original music, one, composed by
Prof. Careless and the other, entitled "Prayer,"
by his wife.
	As a home paper, which contains items of
general interest, we take pleasure in recom-
mending the Ogden Junction, which has now
entered upon its fifth volume: as a local paper,
the citizens of Ogden and vicinity, have every
reason to be proud of it. It contains a vast
amount of real humor, and in this feature it is
particularly characteristic of the editor.
	THE MEETINGS, conventions etc, which are
being held in the interest of the coming elec-
tion, have been so far well attended, and good
order and quiet have been the rule. The elec-
tion of a Delegate to Congress to represent the
interests of the people in Utah, is an import-
ant subject, and the people, MEN and WOMEN,
who hold the right of franchise should be
prompt in exercising it to secure such a candi-
date as shall be qualified in all respects to pro
mote the best interests of the community.
	PORTLAND, SALT Lake, and South Pass rail-
road company, reorganized from the Portland,
Dallas and Salt Lake railroad company, in-
tend commencing to grade the road as soon as
the location is completed in Malad city. There
is a large corps of engineers in the field survey-
ing and locating the line. They intend to
complete the portion of the road to Malad city
and have it in running order by the 1st of
January. Colonel H. I. Chapman has charge
of the company's business and is forwarding
the work with great dispatch.
	The Deseret Silk Association will not hold
any meeting until sometime during the com-
ing conference, and then due public notice will
be given. It is expected that there will be a
great many of the brethren and sisters from
the country in the city then, and that all
those who are interested in seri-culture will at-
tend this meeting and such arrangements be
made, and instructions given, as shall awaken
increased interest, and promote the develop-
ment of this branch of home-industry. 

THE FORTY-SIXTH Semi-Annual Conference
is now very near: this people have been blest
in a most wonderful manner in establishing
themselves here in these vallies. This present
year there has been a bountiful harvest in
many parts of the Territory, and assuredly
should the people with one accord give praise
and thanksgiving to God whose hand has
been stretched out continually in their behalf.
There will be in all probability one of the larg-
est conferences ever assembled together in
Utah; It adds very much to the enjoyment of
any meeting and more especially is it neces-
sary where there is a multitudinous assem-
blage, to observe the laws of order and decor-
um. People can scarcely be too particular in
this respect.
 INTEMPERANCE AND in what way best to
check the growth of it, is a subject that is be-
ing considerably agitated in this community
at the present time. It is certainly one of the
most important matters which can be treated
upon, and requires the utmost thought, cau-
tion and wisdom in passing ordinances or reg-
ulations. It is one of the greatest evils with
which the world is contaminated and leads to
more crime than anything else in the whole
catalogue of vices. Every person who has
eyes to see may be aware of the great change
in this city in a very few years, in the growth
of this terrible sin; and it is decidedly time
that some efficient measures were taken to
prevent further increase of and profit from the
degrading traffic in this community. It is
sincerely to be hoped for the best interests of
all, and especially the young and innocent,
whose future it is the duty of the people to
carefully consider, that such measures may be
adopted as shall successfully hinder the sale of
ardent spirits, except for medicinal purposes.
God speed the time when every saloon here,
or elsewhere shall be closed forever. This sub-
ject should be kept before the people until some
permanent movement can be unitedly deter-
mined upon.
 THE  SUNDAY School: Jubilee of Cache
County, held in the bowery at Logan, Sep. 24,
1876, was in its complete success most encour-
aging, not only to those who had been instru-
mental in bringing about the gratifying result,
but to all persons interested in the future wel-
fare and progress of the youth of the Territory.
The Sunday School is one of the most efficient
educators of children. The congregation, it is
believed, consisted of over 2,000 children, and
about two thirds, or three-fourths as many
adults. Elder George Goddard, Assistant Gen-
eral Superintendent of the Sunday School
Union, addressed the children on the power of
the Sunday School to inculcate and promote
the best and truest principles in the minds of
the young, at a time when they were suscepti-
ble of receiving lasting impressions. Bishop
Wm. B. Preston in his remarks alluded to the
pleasure he felt in being able to say that there
were no "grog shops" there to allure and pol-
lute the habits and morals of the children, and
felt that he would like to take that vast assem-


blage in his arms and care for, and carry them
through, pure and unspotted from the evils of
the world, and see the children grow up in vir-
tue and purity."
	On reading this we could but think what an
appropriate speech for a Bishop, the father of
a people. Would that there were many such
fathers who would carry out in their lives the
feeling portrayed so eloquently in this brief
sentence. President Brigham Young. Jr., in
his address, contrasted the multitude there as
sembled, to the few who were only a few years
since gathered in Salt Lake City. He alluded
in a pathetic manner to the history of Joseph
Smith, said when the children were answer
ing the questions, he could fancy he saw "the
boy Joseph Smith wending his way to the
hill Cumorah." Spoke of the joy he must
have felt in receiving the plates from the stone
box. He alluded briefly to the joys and sor-
rows that afterward followed, and said the rec-
ollection of these things brought to him both
pain and pleasure in meditating upon them.
	Sup't. Moses Thatcher read some selected
lines which were very appropriate to the occas-
ion.
	Towards the close of the Jubliee a standing
musical committee was formed. The Jubliee
was most thoroughly enjoyed by all present,
and the most perfect harmony and good order
prevailed.


