NOTES AND NEWS.

	GENERAL NEWTON'S little girl, Mary,
not quite three years old, fired the mine
that blew Hallett's Point Reef to pieces. A
most remarkable incident certainly in the
life of a little child.
	THE AMERICAN Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation will hold their Eighth, Annual
Meeting in Philadelphia, on Monday and
Tuesday, Oct. 2, and 3, morning, afternoon
and evening sessions. The public are in-
vited, a[-]d auxiliary State and local socie-
ties are considered entitled to send dele-
gates according to the respective delega-
tions of their States. President, Mary A.
Livermore, Secretary, Alice C. Fletcher.
	THE FOURTH Woman's Congress will be
held at Philadelphia Oct. 4, 5, and 6, in St.
George's Hall, daily sessions twice, also
evening sessions. In this Congress will be
assembled many of the most superior wo-
men of the present age, working with un-
tiring zeal and earnestness for reformation
in public and private. Maria Mitchell will
preside.
	IT HAS been proposed to flood the desert
of Sahara. Mr. McKenzie, the projector,
with an engineering party, is about to make
the necessary surveys for turning the wa-
ters of the Atlantic into the great desert.
He is confident that a canal eight or nine
miles long will accomplish the object, flood-
ing the low lands and bringing Timbuctoo
within navigable distance of the sea, open-
ing up a vast trade with the interior of Af-
rica which is the great inducement.
	THE MINISTER of Public Instruction, Mr.
Waddington, proposes an entire reorganiza-
tion of State Education in France. His
scheme embraces primary, secondary, and
university education, making the first com-
pulsory, and for that purpose he asks an ex-
tra grant of five million francs; and looks to
the departments, and communes for fifteen
million francs more. This is in direct op-
position to the scheme adopted by the
French Assembly last year, and of which
the Roman Catholic Church has so vigor-
ously availed itself. The plan is strongly
opposed by the Roman Catholic universities
and their party.


