			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment meeting held
in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday Sept. 16, 1876, was presided over
by Mrs. W. East, but during the meeting
President Mrs. M. I. Horne, and Counselors
Miss E. R. Snow and Mrs. E. Howard ar-
rived from Tooele where they had been vis-
iting in the interests of the Societies. Af-
ter the minutes of the last meeting and
from the several wards represented had
been read, Mrs. W. East spoke upon obedi-
ence, fashion and the principles of Celestial
Marriage; referred to Bro. George Q. Can-
non's remarks in the Sunday School Union,
exhorting the teachers upon teaching that
subject.
	Counselor Miss E. R. Snow referred to
her absence from the meetings on account
of her duties at the Ladies Fair; said she
had enjoyed the spirit of God while en-
gaged there, spoke of home-industries and
the necessity of becoming self-sustaining as
a people. She spoke of her absence from
these meetings having been similar to a
long fast, but that the last week she had
been feasting. On Tuesday, of that week,
she met with the Society at Mill Creek,
Wednesday in the 20th Ward, Thursday
morning with Sisters Horne and Howard,
started for Tooele, where they held a gen-
eral meeting in the afternoon; Friday they
had another general meeting of brethren
and sisters. She had enjoyed the time
very much; exhorted the sisters to punctu-
ality and improvement; remarked the great
blessings that would attend the faithful.
Mrs. M. E. Watmough then spoke upon
the subject of elections, and the neglect of
the sisters on this point, also in regard to
teaching the children as they grew up
every pure principle and duty. Mrs. M. I.
Horne expressed her pleasure in being able
to meet with the sisters again, spoke upon
the principles of marriage, and the superi-
or blessings conferred by the higher law of
marriage which has been revealed in this
last day, also upon seri-culture, and elections,
and their visit to Tooele.
	Counselor Mrs. E. Howard impressed up-
on the sisters the necessity of using decor-
um, and teaching it to their children, and
advised them to remember this subject in
the coming Conference, it would add to the
good order and quiet of the meetings, in
large assemblies particularly.

