THE POWER OF MAMMON.

	That money is the ruling power of the age,
has become proverbial. No matter how supe-
rior one may be in morals, or attainments, in
innate generosity of mind, or chivalry of char-
acter, custom will not exempt him from bow-
ing on the altar of Mammon.
	In this age of professed culture and refine-
ment, when all the accumulated erudition of
the ages of the past has concentrated itself in-
to one grand avalanche of knowledge and
showered itself in rich profusion to grace the
crowning era of worldly wisdoms, strange that
men and women should not inherit and pos-
sess more strength of principle and of charac-
ter, than to yield to this fascinating, all-absorb-
ing influence of the power of gold. It is a 
baneful deterioration to society, leading to all
sorts of stratagems and expediences to keep up
appearances that are false and shallow.
	The majority of people have not the cour-
age to live within their actual resources, be-
cause if they do, those whose companionship
they are desirous of retaining will "cut" them.
And for such flimsy reasons they ignore all
true pride of character, and become virtually
slaves in bondage to custom, or to the tyrant
money. They must maintain their position
and keep up a certain style—and at whose ex-
pense? In many instances not their own.
	Where is the change to begin, the great re-
formation, how will it commence? Sim-
plicity in dress, in the style of living—that is,
of eating, drinking, visiting, giving entertain-
ments—in order to come down to some solid
basis is highly necessary, or sooner, or later
the final crash which all are trying to avoid by
shifting the burden from one's shoulder to an-
others will be inevitable. Otherwise it would
seem necessary for every person to come into
possession of a gold mine in order to live up to
the style of this fast age.
	To listen only for a few minutes to the con-
versation of what is termed business men, one
cannot but draw the conclusion that money
has actually become the motive power that de-
termines the genuine value of every thing on 
earth.


What capital can a man possess to ensure
him permanant standing in modern society
without money? Honesty is apparently at a 
discount; will brains or mind avail him?
Not unless he can make practical use of 
them which will yeild a heavy percentage in 
hard coin. One would almost doubt whether a 
colossal mind would even call forth admira-
tion unless backed by a colossal fortune.
						[handwritten] E. B. Wel


