				NATURE.

	Ever since I was a wee little girl with
rosy cheeks and clusters of bright, brown,
wavy hair (that never would lie smooth,) I
have had a passionate love for the great
out-spread book of nature. I have wander-
ed dreamily for hours "in childhood's days"
through the grand old forests in the vicin-
ity of my New England home, never lonely,
sitting down here and there on the beds of
moss fashioned like cushioned seats upon
some fantastically shaped rock, or the gnarl-
ed trunk of fallen trees, listening to the
songs of birds, and the incessant monotony
of the woodpecker, gazing now and then
up through the leafy branches, catching a
glimpse of the azure above, watching the
rays of light as they shimmered and flashed
through the leaves, adding new brilliancy
to the variegated coloring, as they trem-
bled and swayed with the soft breezes, and
the boughs waving gracefully towards each
other as though embracing tenderly, and
whispering inarticulately in an under-tone,
seemingly a language of reciprocal affection.
	There were always volumes of unwritten
poetry for me in the woodlands and mead-
ows, and in the sparkling brooks with their
shining pebbly depths; and in haunts of
forest shades and falling waters, enthusias-
tically I have drank in, in rich, exhilarat-
ing, inspiring draughts nature's beauty and

[Column 2]
glory, and intuitively I seemed to under-
stand that God was in and over all.
	O how the pealing voices of memory
ring down into my heart, the recollection
of the weird land of the past, whenever I
wander forth among wild, romantic scenery,
or fresh, green pastures, babbling brooks,
deep, winding rivers, or any of the diversi-
ties of nature's grandeur and magnificence,
which insensibly strike the silent chord of
response in my bosom. There is something
inexplicably attractive in the association
with mountains, glens, canyons and forests,
and it calls forth the purest and happiest
emotions, elevating and stimulating the fac-
ulties of thought and reflection and irresist-
ibly leads the soul to the Fountain of all
beauty, of all intelligence. If would one
bring from the deepest recesses of the soul
the richest gems of thought, the most bril-
liant ideas, and clothe them in the choicest
language, let that person go out among the
wildest haunts of nature undisturbed; these
beauties have an inspiration and speak to
the soul in their own simple, unmistakable
language, breathing audibly the music of a
Creator's voice. The grandest parlors with
all the appliances of modern luxury may
lull the senses to rest and wrap the soul in
soft, dreamy raptures, but can never call
forth the intense emotion, the soul-thrilling
ecstasies of thought, that will shape them-
selves into language to touch the hearts of
thousands, opening up great avenues of
sympathetic feeling, like the association
with the wild haunts where the splashing
waterfall foams and dashes, and the snow-
crested mountains tower above, like the
giant kings of some palatial domain.
	It is good for us all at times to leave the
dust and din of city life behind us, and for-
getting the daily cares of every-day life,
which so tax the physical strength, and
harass the mind, go for a little season into
some quiet country nook, nestled among
the hills, where we can think, where we
can rest, where we will be free to act our-
selves, unnoticed by Madame Grundy. We
recruit, we add vigor to our life and
zest to our enjoyments by this means, and
if only for a day, we breathe another at-
mosphere, and it helps us to gather fresh-
ness and activity, quickens our pulses and
strengthens our nerves.
	My intense admiration for the beautiful
helps me perhaps to appreciate a ride, or a
walk where there is always something new
and attractive, and I beg pardon if I over-
estimate the advantages to be derived from
such resources. To me, they are ever an
inexhaustible fund of enjoyment, and I
never look upon them without contrasting
them with similar scenes of the "long ago."
Then I was wont to build castles in the air,
to indulge in all sorts of dreamy fancies,
and embody all sorts of childish ideas in
silly rhyme and rustic prose, and I am
afraid that in this one speciality I am a
child yet, although grown up people will
persist in calling me,
						AUNT EM.
	S. L. City, Sep. 19, 1876.


MISS Anna Dickinson has accumulated
quite a fortune by lecturing, and yet she
has been extremely generous in dispensing
to others.


