HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Icing for Plum Cake.—Take the white of an
egg, a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar, and a tea-
spoonful of gum dragon, melted. Mix them into
a paste, and lay it on the cake.
	Carpet Moths.—We find that ground pepper,
plentifully sprinkled about the edges of carpets,
will prevent them, in a great measure at least,
from the ravages of this destructive creature.
	Night Light.—Put a bit of phosphorus into a
small phial, then fill it one-third with boiling olive
oil, and cork it close; whenever the stopper is ta-
ken out in the night, light will be evolved suffi-
cient to show the hour upon a watch.
	Making Vinegar.—To eight gallons of clear
rain water, add three quarts of molasses, put into
a good cask, shake well a few times, then add two
or three spoonfuls of good yeast cakes. If in sum-
mer, place the cask in the sun; if in winter, near
the stove, where it may be warm. In ten or fif-
teen days, add to the liquid a sheet of brown pa-
per, torn in strips, dipped in molasses; and good
vinegar will be produced. The paper will, in this
way, form what is called the "mother" or life of
vinegar.


Catarrh Snuff:—Powdered elecompane root,
half an ounce; powdered myrrh, a quarter of an
ounce; gum arabic a quarter of an ounce; blood-
root, half a drachm. Mix altogether and use
twice a day. It must be continued to effect a per-
manent cure.
	For Dyspepsia:—One ounce of double tanzy,
dry, one ounce of boneset, one ounce of flour of
hops, two ounces of spearmint, one ounce of car-
away seed, half a pint of Holland gin, half a
pint of cold, soft water, a teacup half full of
loaf-sugar, a quarter of a pound of glauber salt.
Add all together, then strain, and take a desert
spoonful before each meal; and on going to bed.
	Benefit of Laughter:—A hearty laugh is a vi-
talizer to the whole body. The blood moves quickly
and as its chemical electricity conveys a different
impression to all the organs of the body it car-
ries on its mystic journey new life, and electric
force. There is no doubt a good laugh promotes
happiness, and brings joy and gladness to the
heart. It is better than all the pills and electric
shocks in Christendom:—C. A. Von Cort, M. D.


