MISTAKES CORRECTED.

	Mrs. Duniway, in an account of her recent
visit to this city, speaks of going through the
"great 'co-op' on Sunday." We are willing to
believe that the mistake thus published in her
paper, the "New North West," was merely a
typographical error. Still, it demands atten-
tion; as the erroneous idea might be created
thereby, that the "Mormons" have no more
respect for the Sabbath than to have their
stores open, and business transacted upon that
day. Mrs. Duniway's visit to the building re-
ferred to, occurred on Saturday instead of on
Sunday.
	She mentions "a Mormon lady who acted as
chaperon, and was both obliging and intelli-
gent." We bow acknowledgement to this deli-
cate compliment; and consequently we are
prepared to speak knowingly concerning the
circumstances of which Mrs. Duniway writes
during her visit to the store known as "The
Co-op." She speaks of a gentleman being ac-
costed by her chaperon, and relates the follow-
ing short conversation which took place be-
tween them.
	"'Have you been to see—lately?' evidently
meaning one of the wives of the man address-
ed.
	'No,' said he, 'not for some time. How are
they getting along?'
	"Nicely,' replied our guide; 'but you ought
to go and see her. She has a nice new baby.'
	'I know I ought to go, but I'm too busy,'
said the saint."
	Mrs. D. then comments as follows:
	"When the mothers of men are thus neglect-
ed, through viciousness and drunkeness, when
undergoing the fiery ordeal of unwelcome and
enforced maternity, men denounce the cruelty,
though failing to prevent it by law; but what
can we say of such inhumanity when prac-
ticed under the name of religion, and adhered
to as an ordinance of God, the law; meanwhile,
remaining powerless?"
	Was Mrs. Duniway watching for iniquity,
that she imagined she discovered a huge black
fact, where in truth, not the shadow of a dark
reality was visible?
	We take pleasure in correcting this mistake


also, which we consider of too much import
ance to pass unnoticed. The gentleman with
whom the above conversation was held, is the
father-in-law, not the husband of the lady
spoken of; which, we think, alters the appear-
ance of the case materially. We do not, and
would not knowingly hold conversation with
such an inhuman husband and father as Mrs.
Duniway must have considered our gentle-
manly and much esteemed friend. It is not
among the Mormons, we are happy to say,
that "the mothers of men," and their offspring
are "thus neglected." The present glory and
the anticipated exaltation of the Latter-day
Saint, reclines in his little kingdom begun on
earth.
	We hope the "New North West" will pub-
lish this explanation, which as an advocate of
truth and true intelligence, it should do in jus-
tice to its subscribers as well as to a people who
are often ignorantly maligned.


For the EXPONENT.
