GREETING.

Spread, spread the tables wide—a feast prepare,
Of bounteous blessings, wholesome, sweet and rare.
Bring fruits and flowers, bring every beauteous thing,
And bread the staff of life, in plenty bring:
Bring ye of costlier tokens to impart,
The purest, richest treasures of the heart.
Bring joyous greetings, smiles and cheerful faces:
Bring tender words and kisses and embraces:
Bring friendship and its holy offspring love;
Bring all fair graces that are born above,
Bring truth to speak from every lip and eye—
Bring sounding praises to the Great Most High!
Sing to His name a grateful, happy lay,
Who hath to us returned this welcome day;
Our Parents still both living in the flesh,
Their spirits quickened, hearts and memories fresh.
Now forty years they've journeyed on together.
'Mid storms and sunshine and uncertain weather;
But what to them the sunshine or the shade,
They still press on, undaunted, undismayed.
They do not live for Mammon nor its cause,
The world's opinion, flatt'ry or applause,
Their aim is higher, their reward more sure,
Hence they afford life's crosses to endure.
And while they thus, the way of life are threading,
Custom would call this day their "Ruby Wedding!"
Rubies and gems we have not to bestow,
Nor aught of glittering brilliancy or show,
But bring we each a holier offering.
Father and mother see ! our souls we bring,
Laden with gratitude to God and you.
Who hath ordained and taught them to be true!
True to the work which will at length prepare
The faithful in Celestial wealth to share.
We'll all be there, your daughters and your sons,
Lovely and brave, with Mates and little ones.
Friends will your mansions crowd, this day at least,
They'l come in myriads to your glorious feast;
And who shall say but there, with all the rest,
Our Father God may be your honored guest?
Granting you blessings, while we sing His Praise,
And gladly celebrate this day of days.
	Ulala.
Aug. 29th, 1875.


[Column 1]
					For the EXPONENT.
	LOVE OF THE BEAUTIFUL IN
