PIPSEY PAPERS.

	I want a little talk with our girls, and I do
not know of a better opportunity than
through the columns of the EXPONENT. I
love them all, bless their dear hearts, and
the boys too. I love to see them inno-
cent, intelligent and beautiful. They can
all be so, yes every one of them. No mat-
ter if nature has not endowed them with
faces that are most attractive to the casual
observer, they may cultivate sweet tempers
and pleasant dispositions, until they will ob-
tain the admiration and respect of all who
are associated with them, and to those who
know their true value, their faces will beam
with grace and beauty. Sons and daugh-
ters of Zion, you are destined, if you so
will it, to fill high places in the world's
honor and esteem. A life of usefulness is
before you. The foundation is laid where-
on you can rear the walls of a goodly edi-
fice, and your names may shine forth in the
annals of history, brilliant as the sun at
noonday. You may be classed with the no-
blest genius of the age, and your names
handed down to posterity emblazoned in
letters, brilliant as of gold; or, they may be
held up to your fellow countrymen as ex-
amples of degradation and shame. It lies
with yourselves to choose your path, and to
walk therein. Let truth, modesty and vir-
tue be your standard, let your lives be open
to investigation, that all your actions may
bear the strictest scrutiny without calling a
blush to your cheek. Then no stain or
blemish will rest upon your characters and
the good you strive for will not be thrown
back as a mockery. Every woman should
guard her virtue as she would her life, that
no tarnish may rest on her fair fame. It is
a duty she owes, not only to herself, but to
her friends and to unborn generations. How
often are parents hearts bowed down and
their lives shortened by the reckless and
unwise course of their children. I often
think, when I see some broken-hearted
mother, mourning over the disgraceful con-
duct of her children, how heartless and
hardened they must be to cause so much
sorrow. If they have no regard for their
own honor or welfare, they might, at least,
respect the parents who reared them, who
would suffer and lay down their lives for

