[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | June | Issue: 23 | Title: THE PILGRIMS | Author: WOMANS EXPONENT]

THE PILGRIMS

				[Concluded.] 
	The company now commenced exploring
the coast, no Indians were seen and they
afterwards learned that a plague had swept
off great numbers of them and the country
had been abandoned, thus leaving it free
for them to choose a dwelling place.  
	While still on the Mayflower a child was
born, Perigrine White, the first English
child born in New England.
	His mother afterwards became a widow,
and was married again, being the first bride
of the new colony. 
	Finally on the 22nd of December, 1620,
the landing was made on Plymouth Rock,
an event that is celebrated in every part of
our land, and who among us that can trace
back our lineage to this brave, devoted God-
fearing band, but is proud to say, "OUR
Pilgrim Fathers.” 
	Of the manners and customs of the
Pilgrims, their many perilous adventures,
hardships and romantic incidents, with
which every American is more or less fami-
liar, we must treat lightly in this limited
space.
	During the first dreary winter full half
their number died. One of the first being
Rose, the wife of Captain Standish.
	Seven times more graves for the dead
were made than habitations for the living.
They were buried by the bank, not far 
from the landing—a spot still venerated—
and lest the Indians should take courage to
attack the survivors from their weakened
state, the soil that covered the graves of
their beloved relatives was carefully beaten
down and planted with corn. During the
pleasant New England summer which
followed the colonists took heart and all
seemed well. But in November The For-
tune arrived bringing many mouths to fill
but no provisions. Having to divide with
these newcomers, caused a scarcity among
the people and great suffering ensued.
Men often staggered on the street for want
of food, and they were not without appre-
hensions of an attack from the Indians. At
this time Canonicus a powerful sachem sent
to the village a bundle of arrows tied up
with the skin of a rattle snake, but Gover-


nor Braddock promptly filled the skin with
powder and ball and returned it, and this
hint was not without a salutary effect.
	At this time a party of some sixty men
came over from England and settled near.
They were nothing like the Pilgrims, but
were a lawless, reckless set. They com-
menced plundering the Indians and thus
secured their enmity.
	The Indians commenced depredations,
and Captain Standish being somewhat
hasty though brave, took speedy revenge,
surprising and putting to death the chief
with several of his Indians.
	When Robinson, their good pastor, heard
of this he wrote to the colonists, “Oh how
happy a thing had it been had you con-
verted some before you killed any.”
	Afterwards many were converted, and
some sent as missionaries among their own
people.
	The laws of the Pilgrims are a good in-
dication of their character.
	It is an interesting fact that the first law
on record secures trial by jury, consisting
of twelve honest men under oath.
	Another law was that if any were
elected to the office of governor and would
not serve he should be fined twenty pounds
sterling; this is quite different from our
time.
	Another, if any man offered proposals of
marriage to any young lady without first
obtaining the consent of her parents should
submit to a fine or corporal punishment.
	Denial of the Scriptures as a rule of life
was punishable by whipping.
	The Pilgrims were unwilling that any
one should charge an exorbitant profit on
what he sold. These are some cases in
court. J. B. for buying rye at four shill-
ings per bushel and selling for five. A
Miss Boulton was guilty of slander and the
court condemned her to the humiliating
punishment of sitting in the stocks.
	John Phillips for smoking on the high-
way was fined twelve shillings.
	S. H. for carrying a grist of corn from
the mill on Sunday, fined twenty shillings
or to be whipped, and W. F. for permitting
him to take it from the mill fined ten
shillings.
	J. W. was ordered to be sharply reproved
for writing a note on common business on
Lord's day.
	Women for abusing their husbands were
sentenced to be fined or whipped at the
post, but this surpasses all the others. No
garment shall be made with short sleeves,
and such as have garments with short
sleeves, shall not wear the same unless they
cover the arm to the wrist; and hereafter no
person shall make any garment whatever
for women with sleves more than half an
ell (22 inches) wide.
	During the first season land was not
owned by individuals, every man worked
and put his earnings into the common store,
but this was not a success.
	When a certain amount was given to 
each individual they worked with much
more courage and enthusiasm.
	The first time that the landing of the
pilgrims was publicy celebrated in Plymouth
was December 22nd, 1869, almost one hun-
dred and fifty years after the event. This 
is the menu:
	“First, one large baked Indian whortle-
berry pudding; two, a dish of succotash;
three, a dish of clams; four, a dish of
oysters; five, haunch of venison roasted
in the first Jack brought to the colony;

[column 2]
sixth, a dish of seafowl. Seventh, a dish
of fresh fish and eels. Eighth, an apple-
pie. Ninth, a course of cranberry tarts and
cheese made in the old colony.”
	In imitation of their ancestors all luxury
and extravagance were avoided, everything
being served in the simplest manner.
	Another celebration that must be men-
tioned was the 200th anniversary. After a
speech by Daniel Webster of two hours
duration and other ceremonials, a pro-
cession was formed,and taking their way to
the banquet hall sat down to a table spread
with all the luxuries the country afforded,
but on each plate was placed five grains of 
corn; this excited feelings of amusement,
interest and emotion in different individuals,
but when it was understood that this was in
commemoration of that time in the history
of the pilgrims when there was only a pint
of corn for the whole colony and when it
was divided gave just five grains to each;
the five grains at the banquet were eaten
with a greater relish than any of the
dainties, or were carefully treasured as
mementoes. 
	The celebrated rock must be mentioned,
though briefly. In revolutionary times to
inspire still more patriotism it was raised
from its place and drawn by forty oxen,
followed to the Liberty Pole Square.
	In raising it, the rock was broken and
this was looked upon as a signification of
the division of the British Empire.
	In 1834, July 4th, it was moved again
and placed in front of Pilgrim Hall where
in now remains protected by a noble
structure, which serves the double purpose
of security to the rock and a monument to
the pilgrims and bears the names of the
forty-one who signed the compact on board
the Mayflower.
	In looking back at the character of the
pilgrims from this distance, their religion
and lives appear somewhat sombre, some
have called them vindictive, but this is
rather unjust. They certainly did many
things that seem unjust and harsh, such as
their persecution of the Quakers, selling
Indians into slavery, beheading and
quartering others, etc. but we must judge
them from their standpoint and from the
public opinion of their day, and not from 
ours of greater freedom and liberality of
thought. 
	Their lives have furnished themes for
romance and song.
	Where can we find a sweeter story of
simplicity and truth than that of Priscilli,
the Puritan maiden, whom Longfellow has
immortalized. Another sweet sad story of
Puritan sternness is that of Hester Prynne
in Hawthorne’s “Scarlet Letter.”
	This illustrates their severe, strict justice,
seemingly robbed of that sweet virtue
charity, wherein the young girl Hester for
her one error, bitterly repented as it was
and atoned for by a whole lifetime of suf-
fering and devotion, was yet condemned to
wear on her breast the badge of her shame
the scarlet letter, all her life and with her
child live apart from the self-righteous
community.
	We cannot better close this subject than
by quoting the fine words of Sprague:

	“O never may they rest unsung,
	While Liberty can find a tongue,
	Divine gratitude a wreath for them,
	More deathless than the diadem,
	Who to life's noblest end,
	Gave up life's noblest powers,
	And bade the legacy descend
	Down, down to us and ours.”


WOMANS EXPONENT.


