[WomansExponent | Vol10 | 1881 | February | Issue: 18 | Title: INSTRUCTIONS | Author: E. R. SNOW SMITH]

INSTRUCTIONS
TO THE, SECRETARIES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY;
	IN REPLY TO FREQUENT INQUIRIES.
	It is very desirable that a uniformity should
exist throughout all the branches of the Relief
Society in regard to the Secretaries’ Books.
	In some business departments of the Relief
Society, we are under the necessity of varying,
in order to meet the varied local circumstances
of the different branches; but this does not, in
any instance, apply to the Secretaries.
	In each department we want to learn to do
business in the best possible manner, and to
adopt the manner in which it can be done with
the greatest facility and the least labor.
	The Secretaries of the various Branches of the
Belief Society are, or should be, historians of
their respective Branches. One Book (or when
one Book is full another succeeds it) should con-
tain the whole history—all records of the Branch;
and those records should comprise everything
worthy of preservation, and in as concise a man-
ner as practicable. In this, skill and Judgment
are requisite, and “practice makes perfect.”
	In the first place - at the meeting the Secre-
tary should take minutes of all business transac-
tions and whatever is said or done that should
be read at the next meeting; all that has been
donated to the society since the date of the last
meeting, with the name in full of each doner;
the amount of each cash donation, and the price
of each article donated. These figures properly
placed in the margin, are readily footed in mak-
ing up reports: and all proceedings are readily
referred to under their respective dates.
	Should the Branch have an organized Board
of Teachers (which is unnecessary in small
Branches), and that Board a Secretary, a copy
of the minutes of each teachers' meeting must


be forwarded to the general Secretary in time
for her to compile under date whatever is worthy
of record, in its proper order in Book.
	In making up Quarterly or Annual Reports,
the Treasurer will furnish the Secretary with a
list of all Disbursements from date of last report,
which, after having been read and accepted by
the Branch, also read at the Conference for
which it was prepared, the Secretary will copy
it under date, and thus have in one Book the
minutes of each meeting, all the receipts and
disbursements, comprising all business matters
of the Branch.
	The foregoing is in accordance with the origi-
nal sample Book, which was fully approved by
the Prophet Joseph Smith, through whom the
revelation was given for the organization of the
Relief Society.
					E. R. SNOW SMITH.
	S. L. City,  January, 1882.


[Column 1]
