[WomansExponent | Vol10 | 1881 | February | Issue: 18 | Title: MEMORIALS TO CONGRESS. | Author: Unknown]

MEMORIALS TO CONGRESS.

	We publish below a copy of the Memorial
to Congress from the women of Utah, and also
one from the young ladies, that are being circul-
ated throughout all the Stakes of Zion for signa-
tures. They are an embodiment of the senti-
ments held by the women of Utah in re-
lation to the excitement aroused against this
people, and the action of Congress in the prem-
ises:

To the Honorable the Senate and Hsuse of Repre-
sentatives in Congress Assembled:

	We, the women of Utah, view with deepest regret
the bills that have been presented in Congress dur-
ing the present session, asking for special legisla-
tion for our Territory; which, if carried into effect,
will destroy the peace, tranquility and prosperity
which have heretofore characterized our dearly
loved homes. We were driven to these mountain
vales by the cruel hand of persecution, while on
our journey as outcasts and exiles, our sons, hus-
bands and fathers were called upon by the nation
to battle for American rule in this country, then a
portion of Mexico, and after struggling through
privation and hardship such as men, women and
children have seldom endured, your petitioners,
many of them descendants of the Pilgrims of New
England, with their fathers, husbands, brothers
and sons, found a barren desert, inhabited only by
savage Indians and wild beasts; here we have la-
bored with the courage and endurance born only
of religious faith, in helping to establish homes for
ourselves and our children, and have made it easy
for those coming at a later period, who found these
valleys blooming with beauty, and teeming with
plenty to enjoy all the blessings which pertain to
life and happiness.
	And we most respectfully represent to your hon-
orable body, that the bills aforesaid, now pending
in the Congress of the United States, are further
calculated to destroy our birthright of liberty, the
glorious heritage bequeathed by our noble ancestors.
	And furthermore, we are well aware, that the
present excitement in the nation is the result of ig-
norance and misrepresentation; and that the aim of
our enemies is to rob us of our hard-earned homes
and to plunder the public treasury. These schemes
have been concocted by sectarian priests and politi-
cal [---], and by women who are the tools
of wicked and designing men, both men and women
unscrupulous in their enmity and mendactons in
their statements, although they have homes and
houses of worship in Utah Territory, comprising
nearly all religious denominations, and are pro-
tected in all their rights as citizens, and as reli-
gious worshipers, without the least intrusion or
molestation; and who, instead of reforming the
morals of the community as they perfidiously pre-

[Column 2]
tend, have assisted in introducing and sustaining
in our midst, the most demoralizing institutions
known in the world.
	And moreover, we, your petitioners, hereby tes-
tify that we are happy in our homes, and satisfied
with our marriage relations, and desire no change.
We are not the "oppressed and down-trodden wo-
men" we are represented to be, but enjoy more
rights and freedom than women elsewhere in the
nation, and we do know that our institutions are of
such a nature as tend to purity of morals and ele-
vation of character. And we most solemnly aver
before God and man, that our marital relations are
most sacred, that they are divine, enjoining obliga-
tions and ties that pertain to time and reach into
eternity. Were it not for the sacred and religious
character of the institution of plural marriage, we
should never have entered upon the practice of a
principle which is contrary to our early teachings,
and in consequence of which our names are cast
out as evil, by the Christian world.
	Therefore, we most respectfully appeal to your
honorable body to forbear hasty and reckless action
in regard to so important a matter as the politica
disorganization of the most prosperous and flour-
ishing Territory of which the nation can boast; and
before proceeding to radical changes, to do your-
sleves the justice to investigate, by a commission
of honest and intelligent men and women, the true
condition of the "Mormon" people of Utah Territory,
	And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever
pray.

To the Honorable the Senate and House of Repre-
sentatives in Congress Assembled.

	Whereas, Certain bills are now pending before
your honorable body, which, if passed, will break
up happy homes and families and produce untold
misery, sorrow and suffering; will deprive us of
the kind, fostering care of honorable, upright, God-
fearing fathers, and drive forth our precious, loving
mothers as outcasts; as those who have no right to
the honored name of wife, and also cast opprobrium
upon many of us as illegitimate; and,
	Whereas, The passage of such bills would de-
prive our fathers, mothers and brothers (and our-
selves, when properly qualified) of the right of
franchise, and, in fact, of all the rights of Ameri-
can citizens, debarring us of the free exercise of
our holy religion, which is dearer to us than life
itself, and would be contrary to the spirit of the
glorious Constitution of our country, which we
have ever been taught to revere as an inspiration
from Almighty God; for we have been taught, and
conscientiously believe that plural marriage is as
much a part of our religion as are faith, repentance
and baptism; and,
	Whereas, In our opinion, the cause of the intro-
duction of such bills has been the false representa-
tion of evil disposed persons, who assert we are
low, ignorant, degraded and disloyal: and, feeling
assured that, had your honorable body been truth-
fully advised in regard to the people of this Terri-
tory, such bills would never have obtained a hear-
ing in the Congress of this mighty nation;
	Now, therefore, we, the young ladies of Utah
Territory, do most solemnly and truthfully declare
that neither we nor our mothers are held in bond-
age, but that we enjoy the greatest possible free-
dom socially and religiously; that our homes are
happy ones, and we are neither low nor degraded:
for the principles of purity, virtue, integrity and
loyalty to the government of the United States
have been instilled into our minds and hearts since
our earliest childhood.
	According to what we read, and can learn from
other sources, in no place in the world is female
chastity and virtue guarded with more jealous care
than by our people; for we have been taught and
do understand that this is our greatest boon; far
above jewels or wealth, and more precious than
life itself, and we therefore most respectfully me-
morialize your honorable body to suspend further
action on all bills relating to Utah, and send a com-
mission of honorable, intelligent and unprejudiced
men and women to inquire into, and learn the true
state of affairs in this Territory:
	And as in duty bound, your memorialists will
ever pray.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	PROTEST OF A "MORMON" WOMAN
				-----
  DAUGHTER OF HEBER C. KIMBALL.
				-----
	The Latter-day Saints should not be sur-
prised at anything, for the Lord has told us
through His ancient prophets as well as through
Joseph the seer of the awful calamities and
judgments which are surely coming upon the
nations, and he said that they should commence
at the house of the Lord.  The following is from
one of Joseph's revelations, "Behold it shall
come to pass that my servants shall be sent forth
to the east and to the west, to the north and to
the south, and even now let him that goeth to
the east teach them that shall be converted to
flee to the west, in consequence of that which is
coming on the earth and of secret combinations.
Behold, thou shalt observe all these things and
great shall be thy reward, for unto you it is
given to know the mysteries of the kingdom,
but unto the world it is not given to know
them."
	At the present time things look rather dark,
but I think there will be no trembling nor
shaking of the knees among the ones who are
in the enjoyment of the Gospel of Christ for
they know that God is at the Helm and that
He will not suffer His own work to be over-
thrown nor will the principle of a plurality of
wives, which He commanded should be estab-
lished ever be uprooted by the weak and pusil-
lanimous arm of flesh.
	We as a people have suffered little or noth-
ing from the outside world since this principle
was established when compared with our former
experience in Oho, Missouri and Illinois.
The pure in heart have accepted it as a Holy
principle and practiced it in the fear of God,
who because of our sacrifice, has made us the
happiest people upon this earth and we are
willing to suffer and even to die for it if neces-
sary, but we will never deny it, no never! and
no one need flatter themselves that the Lord
will give any new revelation to that effect.
The Almighty hat nothing to do with bogus
revelations which the peeners and rappers have
been decieving the world with for so many
years.
	Truth is mighty and like the point of a dia-
mond it cuts as it goes, and I say let her be
honored and let my right hand wither or for-
get its cunning rather than deny one of God's
sacred truths, to please or to avoid displeasing
a set of apostate Christians.  They only make
Polygamy an excuse to draw the attention of
the world to cover their own dishonest and hell-
ish schemes: to rob us and drive us again and
to accomplish this they would stoop to do any-
thing, even to wipe us from the face of the earth;
but we are protected by a power which is un-
known and unacknowledged by the world and
we think it very improbable that we shall feel
obliged to move from here until the set time
of the Lord shall come.  The Latter-day Saints
have an inheritance in Jackson County, Miss-
ouri where the New Jerusalem is to be built,
and from present appearances one might easily
be led to believe, that this glorious event was
to be realized sooner than we had anticipated.
The Lord is able to soften or to harden the
hearts of men just as He sees fit, as He did in
the case of Pharaoh; to bring to pass His own
purposes, and if He suffers our foes to triumph
for a little season - it will be only in fulfillment
of the words of the prophets and we shall see
then who the Saints are, and who are the hyp-
ocites and every thing that is done to injure
us will serve to knit the hearts of the Saints
more closely together, and God grant that, that
time is not far distant; for our greatest troubles
have been traced to the treachery of men
and women who have been nourished and cher-
ished here in our midst, and our most bitter
opposers have been proven invariably to be
among the most wicked, licentious and corrupt

[Column 2]
portion of society and we have abundant
proofs, that such is the character of the most
polite, sleek and kid-gloved representatives of
our nation, who have perverted its laws and
are legislating and planning how to make slaves
of free-born American Citizens.
	Years ago the low lived plotters and schemers
threatened to place our fathers, brothers, hus-
bands and sons in chains and dungeons, but
found this a more intricate job than they had
anticipated, and it seems to me they have tried
almost every imaginable plan to bring us under
their feet, but every move they have made has
had the very opposite effect from what they
designed, and in spite of them prosperity has
attended this people.  They have ridiculed,
misrepresented and sworn falsely year after
year, and are still blindly pursuing the same
courses until their own feet are becoming en-
tangled in the very net which they have lain to
ensnare the "Mormons".
	Surely the wisdom of their wise men has
perished, and the understanding of their prud-
ent men are hid.
	How laudable is the course of these sectarian
demigogues who are uniting and gathering to-
gether their forces to rend asunder family ties,
to gore, and drive to desperation a virtuous in-
dustrious intelligent and common-sense, mind-
their-own business people who with sweat and
honest toil have made their homes and cities,
desirable. A little unarmed and defenceless col-
ony who came here years ago because we could
not be allowed the enjoyment of the rights
guaranteed us by the constitution of our coun-
try to worship God according to the dictates
of our own consciences; where we hoped to
dwell in peace and harmony unmolested by
wars, strife and contentions, and these blessings
we would be enjoying to day had not the rulers
of this nation departed from and trampled un-
der foot this same sacred constitution.  Many
Saints are still living who heard the Prophet
prediet this calamity, and he also said that this
people would rise up and save the Constitution
and bear it off triumphantly.
	I remember a time when the sympathies of
some of our far-off sisters were suddenly awak-
ened to the awfully degraded and suffering
condition of the poor, down-trodden women of
Utah, and some no doubt were honest, but
their liege lords thought themselves exceedingly
cunning when they proposed to grant us female
suffrage. which we received with thanksgiving
to the God of Israel, who we knew had moved
upon them to do this act; but they found too
late that their sympathies were entirely mis-
placed; for, to their awful chagrin and discom-
fiture, instead of releasing ourselves from the
supposed bondage of "Mormon" rule, we still
remained faithful to our our religion, which we
held the most sacred and clung to our own
husbands for protection from the vile and inhu-
man clutches of those pretended friends and
sympathizers.  They decided the grapes to be
sour. and the cry went forth "Disfranchise
the Mormon women!"
	Oh, ye speculators and pious (?) hypocrites -
professed champions of virtue! we could read
your thoughts and motives then as plainly as
we do to-day. Polygamy, and all your pity
for the poor, down-trodden Mormon women was
only an excuse, and a most feeble one, too.  I
would like to know how many there were who
pitied us when forced to leave our homes and
property in the beautiful city of Nauvoo, to
cross the Mississippi on the ice in the cold,
bleak month of February, 1846, enduring un-
told suffering for months, being destitute of
sufficient bedding, clothing, wagons or teams to
take us to Council Bluffs.  Being the intention
of Brigham Young to cross the Rocky Moun-
tains that year, we were placed upon rationed
meals, consisting some of the time of the fol-
lowing luxuries: parched corn meal cake and sea
biscuit or crackers broken into thin porridge o

[Column 3]
gruel, for which I had no relish, and forced to
travel a portion of every day on foot, to favor
the poor teams, which would sink deep into the
soft and muddy prairies; exposed to cold. most
of us being minus umbrellas to shield our
heads from the pitiless storms of snow, sleet,
wind or rain, and then under the scorching
beams of the summer's sun.  No matter how
weary, sick or wayworn we were, we still plod-
ded along day after day. often making but
three miles a day, the next camping place
being in sight of where we had pitched our
tents the night before.  Having no bridges to
cross the ravines, we had to make our own
roads as we went along; and these perils by
the way lasted until we stopped at Garden
Grove, when some of our men went down to
Missouri to work and to trade for cows, teams
and provisions which afforded some temporary
relief.  My faith during those days was hardly
equal to the trials, and time, with all its
changes, has not had power to efface them from
my memory.  If we ever stood in need of
sympathy, it was then.  But who cared for
"Mormons," or how the poor women and chil-
dren were faring when the strength of our
companies was taken to fight for the nation in
its war against Mexico - the nation that had
refused us their protection and driven us out
to die! Then our only alternative was to seek
for winter quarters, where the lone graveyard
lays a silent but sure witness against them.
	None of their ministers of the Gospel or gen-
tle sisters of charity sought us out during those
dark days of trial, nor did they care for our
welfare either temporal or spiritual - whether
our souls or our bodies were saved or lost, un-
til after "Mormon" boys had discovered a
gold mine in California; and while the gold
fever raged, the Gentiles were very glad to fol-
low in the trail of "Mormon" pioneers, who
had made the roads, built the bridges and pre-
pared a half-way place, where the impatient
and reckless gold diggers were glad enough to
find friends, where they could exchange their
exhausted teams for a fresh supply of cattle,
horses and mules to take them on to the gold
diggings.
	We could forgive them if they would ever
leave us alone, but can never forgot the trials
and sufferings passed through during that long
and terrible journey.  In that fearful time my
own health was wrecked and my life made one
of martyrdom, brought upon me by exposures,
hardships and privations, which I with the rest
of the Saints was subjected to during our exo-
dus from Nauvoo, and in the settling of this
far of and once barren country.  And for all
of this needless suffering we are indebted to
this nation, which it seems is now to be con-
trolled by priestcraft and sectarian bigots, and
they will ere long find that there is a big ac-
count laid up against them, which must be
settled sooner or later.
	The world may call us fools, or dupes to our
leaders, if they wish; we have become accus-
tomed to that, as we have to a thousand other
like falsehoods, and we can bear more than
any other people living.  But we protest
against this intolerant and inhuman course
which is now being taken towards an innocent
and law-abiding people; and as the natural in-
stinct of our nature is self-preservation, and if
a pack of interlopers should intrude themselves
upon us and try to take away our rights, and
trample us down, as they wish to it would be
very natural for us to say, "hands off!" and
we might possibly lose our tempers; for, if
forced to it, rather than let an enemy inhabit
my home, which is very dear to me, or become
their slave, I would apply the torch to it with
as much equanimity as we should have done
when we left this city in 1858, which threat
would have been carried into effect, had not
the Lord overruled it by causing fear to come
upon our invaders, which humbled them, and


brought an everlasting stigma upon our once
free and happy government. No free-born
American can become a slave, for that spirit
of independence and love of liberty which we
have inherited, not only from our New Eng-
land sires, but have nursed it from our moth-
er's breasts, revolts at the thought of submit-
ting to slavery; and I wish all to understand
that I am proud of this legacy, and glory in
the knowledge that it has been handed down
to my children. And should this be anything
strange, born as they have been in the midst of
persecution, with the memory of robbings,
drivings and bloodshed rankling in our bosoms,
wrongs for which we have sought in vain for
redress? These questions we leave for some of
the wiseacres to answer.
				HELEN MAR WHITNEY.


