[Vol54 | October 1967 | Page 744 | Special Feature | Within the Stillness | Sylvia Probst Young]
Within the Stillness Sylvia Probst Young ¢ During the moon-bright hours of a summer night, we climbed the well-trodden trails of Timpanogos, and just as the sun blazed over the eastern hills below us, we reached the summit of the mountain and felt the great exhilaration that attaining the heights always brings. Resting on the ridge, we feasted our eyes upon a wide panorama of beauty—green, fertile valleys, shimmering lakes, winding rivers, and wooded mountains—a breathtaking sight in the fresh morning stillness. The sight brought to me a sense of wonder and humility, and to my mind came the words of a well-known scripture: "Be still and know that I am God" (Psalm 46:10). In the hurry, hurry, hurry of our daily living, with its frustrations and worries, many of us are often low-spirited and discouraged. Yet all around us is food for the soul, a kind of medication that has often proved better than prescribed pills, in the healing peace that can be found in God's great creations. From my kitchen window, I look out at Mt. Olympus; at twilight the snow on its crown is bathed in a violet pink beauty. And in that opalescent stillness, my heart is lifted, and I repeat with the psalmist: 'I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help. My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth" (Psalm 121:1-2). In stillness, there is a calming, strengthening power, and the wise Creator knew this, for he placed a stillness on so many lovely things —dawn, and the coming of night;. A play of clouds across the sky; the miraculous growth in a garden; creeping of frost along the ground, are but a few of them. In stillness comes peace. Walk along a forest trail where the silence is profound, and a sense of wonder and devotion fills the soul as in a holy place. Along a lonely coast, where only the rhythm of the ageless tide can be heard, care may be shed like a cloak, and a sense of well-being can warm the heart like a mantle. In the poem "Cares," attributed to Elizabeth Barrett Browning, "The foolish fears of what may happen," are cast away "Out in the fields with God." There is a need for quiet, solitary meditation in every life. A friend of mine has a meadow brook behind her house, and when the pressures of the day become too great, she steals off alone to stand beside the crystal stream for a few minutes, while her mind and heart catch the wonder of the ever-moving water. And when she returns, it is as if her cares had been washed away. Surely, there is a peace-giving, revitalizing power in stillness. Take a few moments of the day to find it. Make for yourself a quiet sanctum, whether a secluded garden nook, a hidden beach, a backyard bench, or a kitchen window, from where you can clear your vision, lift up your eyes to the stars, be still and know God. 744 Ye Mrs. Jeanette McKay Morrell, Ogden, Utah, sister of President David O. McKay, and wife of Dr. Joseph Morrell, is author of "Highlights in the Life of President David O. McKay'' (Deseret News Press). The book is an inspirational treasury of events in the life of the President, with a rich offering of his teachings and his fervent testimony of the gospel. Mrs. Morrell is a devoted and gifted worker in civic and Church organizations, and has long been a leader in art and literature groups. A series of articles "'Life of President David O. McKay" by Mrs. Morrell appeared in The Relief Society Magazine in 1953. Deanne Siemer, twenty-six, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, has been elected president of the Harvard Law School's Legal Aid Bureau, the first woman ever to head one of Harvard's three legal honor societies. She is a licensed pilot, an expert skier, and a brilliant lawyer. Ann Mallalieu, twenty-one, daughter of a British Board of Trade minister, has been elected president of the 151-yearold Cambridge Union Debating Society. Evelyn Mazuran, woman's editor of the Deseret News, Salt Lake City, Utah, was one of four United States editors to address the Nationa! Federation of Pen Women at their summer meeting in Sun Valley, Idaho. Her subject was "The World of Women in a Daily Newspaper.'' She is the daughter of former Governor of Utah, Henry H. Blood and wife of a Salt Lake City businessman.