[Vol54 | October 1967 | Page 750 | Fiction | Then Comes Tomorrow | Marian Gardner Nielson]
Then Comes Tomorrow ety. She wanted Jamie to know how she loved him, how she appreciated his thoughtfulness and kindness. Yes, and his teasing, too! Bout the news got around that Granny McBride had another of her fancy quilts on, and the neighbors began to drop in to see it. Jenny Benton was first, openly envying the minute stitches; Grandma Paige came and {fingered the delicate sego lilies, rejoicing in the ivory and lavender of her favorite flower; Billie Sue, the new convert from Kentucky hills, came with her slow-speaking husband and wanted to sit right down and go to work. Mary Jane brought the baby when she came, and almost wept at the sheer beauty of the quilt. "Granny, you know I'm a good quilter. You taught me. Why don't you...?" "Now, Mary Jane, don't ask me. If I wanted anyone to help, you'd be the first one I'd ask. But can't you see? I want to do this one alone."' "Oh, Granny," Mary Jane wailed, and the baby started to cry, "you can't get it done on time. Our quilting club could come. We're all extra good quilters. Don't you remember you told me you were afraid the art of quilting was dying out and you got us to come once a week that summer?" Esther gazed fondly at her serious, brown-eyed granddaughter. She could still see the eight earnest little girls sitting around the pieced baby quilt, trying to take small stitches. Tongues were still as the girls tried and tried again to please the perky little 

751 October 1967

 woman who had inveigled them with hot scones, red currant jelly, and rich cold milk to come and 'learn to quilt!"? And they'd all learned, too. Well, except for Martha, who couldn't keep her mind on anything but Tom Smith, even then. So when Martha and Tom were married, the quality quilters had pieced and quilted a Swedish wedding ring quilt that was as well done as if Esther had done it herself. She patted Mary Jane's baby, kissed the top of Mary's head. "I know you can quilt. You're nearly as good as I am—but let me do it alone." So it was with all the offers. Nobody insisted. Everybody in the small town knew Granny McBride and her love for young Jamie. When the phone rang, Esther was just ready to roll both sides. She hated to go and answer it, but her conscience got the better of her. It was probably just about the bake sale for the scouts, Saturday, anyway. But it wasn't about the bake sale. As Esther listened, she clutched the phone harder, and her face grew still and white. Cg ~~ "How badly is she injured?" she inquired. Although she relaxed a bit at the reply, when she hung up the receiver five minutes later she was still pale and shaken. She sat, unmoving, at the 752 phone, making plans and discarding them, making others. Finally, she arose. If she hurried, she could get the six o'clock bus and be at her daughter Liza's before morning. It was no job to pack her small suitcase. She took the perishables from the refrigerator next door to Connie, who needed the extra food anyway. She called Mary Jane. "Tiza's been in a car accident and is in the hospital. They don't know the full extent of her injuries yet. What?... I don't know the details, but I am going to the children. I don't know how long I'll be gone, Mary Jane.... The quilt? I'd almost forgotten it. Well, I'll cover it and lock up. It will be all right until I get back. I might even let you help me if I can't get it finished!.... No, I'm all ready. Just look in once in a while. Will you take me to the bus?.... Thank you, dear. Goodbye." Esther hadn't forgotten the quilt at all. She stood over it savoring every stitch, every vibrant blossom, every nuance of radiant color. She just had to have it finished for Jamie's wedding. It was a dream—a dream of love and joy and tears. She had promised herself when Jamie was in Viet Nam, that when he got married, she would have it ready —now maybe she wouldn't. She thrust the thought aside. Of course, she'd get back and finish it. She'd even wrap it in pink net and tie it with a big bow of satin ribbon. It would look very bridey. Liza would be fine in a few days. Hadn't Harry assured her of that? She was just putting a sheet over the quilt, when she heard Mattie at the kitchen door. "Well, Mattie," she said, almost crossly, to, cover up the tears in her voice, "now you're here we might as well roll." As the two close friends carefully and tenderly rolled the two sides, Esther explained about Liza and the necessary trip. "Oh, Esther! Can I do anything to help you? What about the quilt?" The quilt again. Esther forced herself to speak gently. "I'll be back in a few days, and I know I'll have time to finish it then. With the two sides rolled once and the ends done, it won't take me long." The two women tightened the last clamp and straightened up. Maitie looked it over proudly. "That design sure does stand out. Can't say as I've ever seen a prettier quilt."" She paused a minute, "Nor one with more style, either." From Mattie that was the ultimate compliment. "Tl take care of your flower garden. I'll water it at the same time you do," she said dryly, "at five o'clock am. Now, that's friendship for you, watering a flower garden at dawn!" Esther knew everything would be taken care of. Mattie would see to that. The night bus trip seemed long. Air-conditioning helped, but a fretful Navajo baby in the seat back of her was restless and kept her awake with his whimpering. She slept fitfully, and Liza's accident loomed large in her mind. Even the problem of getting the quilt finished for Jamie's wedding hovered over her, way out of proportion. She was glad when she could see the Ute Mountain silhouetted against the brightening Then Comes Tomorrow sky. When the bus finally arrived at her destination, she was her old serene self, emanating sympathy and. Love to Liza's worried family. Liza wasn't so well, she was told. It might be she would have to stay in the hospital longer. Nothing that couldn't be taken care of, though. Was Granny sure she could stay? "You need help, don't you? All right, ''m going to help. What are grandmothers for? I can still make cookies. Didn't I teach your mother how? I might even try a batch of salt-rising bread. Now, how would you like that?" Harry put his strong arms around her and hugged her gratefully. The three little girls clung to her hands and chattered happily. The two teenagers, Bob and Joan, pretending they weren't listening, sauntered along in front. "Oh, Mother!" was all Liza said when Esther bent over her bed at the hospital, but there was a world of love and thankfulness in her voice. Tears slipped out of her eyes. Tenderness painted Esther's words with the comfort which only she could give. "Dear Liza, you must just get well. I'll take care of the family. You know I will love that. We all love you very much. I'm so glad I can be here when you need me." Liza looked as if she wanted to say something, but her mother stopped her. "No, Liza, no talking. Rest now. Rest now." As Liza closed her eyes, Esther turned and followed Harry out of the room, her heartbreak mirrored in her face. By the time she rejoined the children, her smile was 

753 October 1967

 back and her voice had its usual lilt. The days that followed were full of rich experiences and of discouragement. It seemed that the meals were at all hours, that there was no system to their living. The mending basket was piled higher each day; the ironing was never finished. There was no time for salt-rising bread; in fact, there was no time to get her regular bread mixed. One day she had to send Bob to the corner grocery for bread. That did it! She set up a routine for living. Using charts on the kitchen blackboard and written reminders in the bedrooms, she got the children organized to get their tasks done quickly. By the end of the second week, things were looking up. The house looked spic-andspan; the pile of mending was almost gone; a fresh batch of saltrising bread was cooling on the rack. The children were happy with the results. Too, Liza might come home any day. Bout the days scurried by, and the doctor did not release his patient. Esther relayed to Liza only the pleasant things that happened at home: the three little girls had learned how to crochet; Bob had cut his long hair and looked almost human again; Harry was supervising the building of a barbecue in the back yard; and Joan had a regular baby-sitting job. She kept herself busy—mending, cooking, cleaning, and keeping up the lagging spirits of the family. She never mentioned the quilt to anyone, for, at last, she had given up getting it done in time for Jamie's wedding. She 754 had wept when she had first made her decision, and a little of the sprightliness left her. Even with a great deal of help, it would be impossible, now, to get it done. She tried not to think of Jamie's pride in her accomplishments and his '"What have you been up to now, Granny?' She knew he would understand; she had had a short note from him full of love and concern. She would send his wedding quilt after she had completed it. ' Liza had been home three days when Mary Jane called Esther about the final reception plans. "Granny, we'll meet the bus day after tomorrow. You'll get home just in time to change and get to the reception." "But, Mary Jane...." "Jamie and Nancy will meet you at the hall. Don't worry, Granny." _ Then Mary Jane talked to Harry at some length. When he finally hung up, he looked up quizzically and stated, ""We'll get you on that bus, Granny!"' And he did. When Esther got off that evening, Mary Jane's husband whisked her away. ""You're to come to our place to change. Your pink dress is ready for you there, and you can go right with us to the hall." Excited, tired, upset about the unfinished quilt, Esther did not insist on going to her own home. Efficient little Mary Jane had her showered, dressed, hair combed and almost relaxed, before she knew what had happened. "Do you think Jamie will understand about the quilt, Mary Jane? It seems I can hardly face him without a wedding present." Her lips trembled. Mary Jane kissed the _ soft cheek, held her close for a moment. "Jamie will understand. Your being there will be better than any wedding present anyone could give him. You'll see." "Yes, but I wanted to have it ready, and—I haven't." "Oh, Granny," and her granddaughter steered her gently out of the house into the car. The cultural hall was ablaze with lights and tall baskets of pink and white gladioli when Esther came in. Jamie's young arms enfolded her as he said against her softly waved white hair, "Oh, Granny, now everything is perfect! Come along with us." With Jamie's arm _ tightly around her, and Nancy's hand, cool and comforting, in hers, Esther was led to the front of the hall. The chattering stopped, the fiddler broke into "That Old Sweetheart of Mine," as they came to a halt. "Look up, Granny—there, over on the wall." Hanging in the place of honor against the pale blue background was her quilt. Each fragile wild flower and each green frond stood out in relief against the azure back
