[Vol54 | October 1967 | Page 786 | Lesson | Visiting Teacher Message A Loving Person Alice | Colton Smith]
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE—Truths To Live By Message 4—A Loving Person Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Objective: To become a! Oving person requires desire, study, and practice. One mellow summer evening in the Café Mozart around the corner from Vienna's Opera House, an Austrian woman sociologist explained why the terrors of two world wars had caused many Viennese to grow fearful. '""No one has been admitted to my intimate friendship circle since childhood. I have many acquaintances, but few friends. I don't want more friends. I'd be afraid of them." Did she reflect the uneasiness many people feel, due, perhaps, not to war but to unhappy expe riences with others? Do we want friends? Do we want to love others? She who becomes a friend must_want-—to-_love. The expression of love requires skill. It can be learned. Jesus and all the prophets to the present day have taught_this skill. To excel in love, as in all great attainments, requires training. Historians, modern scientists, men of learning in other areas have insights for us. We should be selective _as we study, so that our growing knowledge will be in harmony with the gospel. We have many opportunities to practice and to help others grow into a loving relationship with us. 786 ve A woman discovered a neighbor's child pulling up her flowers. She asked him why he did this. He said, "Mommie loves pretty flowers. I am taking her these." The woman talked with the child about a flower's needs. She told him that flowers needed to be picked, not pulled, showing him how this was done. She asked him to come to her next time and together they would decide which ones. Were ready to be picked. She told him that she was glad he loved flowers. Gradually they developed a common interest in flowers and became good friends. He became as protective of her garden as she. A loquacious and complaining woman alienated most. Of-her family: and _ friends. One woman, understanding her loneliness and insecurity, listened to her and found they had many common interests. Focusing on these, she helped the woman, at least temporarily, to forget her problems. It took only a few hours a month to help this troubled sister. Love makes.. Demands. It calls for continual growth and development. To become a loving person a woman learns to admit_freely when she is wrong. She learns to discuss s misunderstandings without anger. She acquires skill in correcting others so that they are not wounded. She encourages excellence in others and is patient as she waits for them to develop. Lesson Department A friend in trouble is sustained without being judged. When something does not work in her relationship with others, she tries repeatedly until she finds a good solution. It takes a dedicated.

EfHOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 4—The Kitchen—The Heart of the Home Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, January 1968 Southern Hemisphere: June 1968 Objective: To show that the kitchen can be the heart of the home, where human needs are satisfied. Great riches other rooms adorn But in a kitchen, home is born. INTRODUCTION One of the clearest indications of a happy family relationship is the warmth and happiness which emanates from the home itself. It is not a new concept that the kitchen is "the heart of the home." Since fire was first brought inside as a means of providing warmth and of cooking food, the kitchen has been a warm, welcoming place. It is even more than that. It has become the center of most of the homemaking activities, and women probably spend more time there than in any other room. In the humblest of homes, as well as the most modern, the kitchen can and should be a delightful place to linger. A woman who cares about the welfare of her family will make her kitchen a place where everything works together to bring the warmth and inviting quality so necessary to this important center of the home where her family dwells. WHAT MAKES A GOOD KITCHEN? There are certain fundamental requirements for any kitchen regardless of its size or its cost, and regardless of where it may be if it is successfully to fulfill its func-" tion as the heart of the home. 1. It should be clean. Cleanliness is of the utmost importance in the kitchen, not only because it is requisite to the health of the family, but also because it is basic to all the laws and virtues of good living. Without cleanliness, there can be neither order nor efficiency, both of which are essential to all patterns of life both within the home and outside of it. In this enlightened modern age, no woman needs to be without a knowledge of the means and methods of applying proper sanitation in her home—especially in her kitchen. After the basic rules of sanitation have been complied with, it is surprising how easily her other cleaning problems can be solved and her work load lightened with a few simple preliminary preparations.