[Vol54 | October 1967 | Page 787 | Lesson | Homemaking The Kitchen The Heart of the Home Celestia | J. Taylor]
[Homemaking The Kitchen The Heart of the Home Celestia J. Taylor]

787 October 1967

 For Discussion Discuss methods and examples of how cleaning problems may be solved. 2. It should be well-lighted. Since the kitchen is essentially a woman's workshop, adequate lighting is as necessary to her there as it is to any technician in his laboratory. No homemaker can function at her best in gloom and shadow.. It should be well-ventilated. Most kitchens, especially modern ones, are open to adjoining areas; therefore, care should be taken to keep odors of cooking where they belong. Vents, fans, open windows and doors and other air-conditioning devices should be a part of every kitchen. (Penetrating cooking odors can be reduced by adding a few celery tops or outside leaves of lettuce to the pan. The chlorophyll in the green leaves accomplishes this.). It should be convenient. Whether the kitchen area is large or small, it should be well-organized through the relationship of appliances, work areas, and storage space. Frequently used items should be stored so that they are easily seen and easily reached, and those seldom used stored elsewhere or discarded. Cabinets and drawers cluttered with unnecessary utensils are a waste of time and effort to keep in order.. It should be well-equipped. A homemaker, like any other artist or craftsman, should have the best tools she can afford. Markets all over the world carry equipment for those whose budget is limited or for those to whom money is no object. Some of the humblest kitchens have the most interesting and practical equipment and accessories. It should be attractive and inviting. The kitchen has an obligation to be a visual, as well as a practical asset, to the home. The combination of color, texture, and pattern are fun to work out and a joy to the beholder. Who among us does not enjoy the warm shine of copper and brass or the cool gleam of pewter? The idea of beauty in the kitchen is not new. That our grandmothers and our great-grandmothers before 788 them were aware of the need for beauty was evident in their flowering plants, their hanging flower boxes, and their flowering window sills. To neighbors on all sides we are indebted for the contributions which they have made to the beauty and culture which we have adapted to our own situations: To England for its leaded panes, its solid rough-hewn beams, its inviting open hearths; to the sunny countries of the Mediterranean for their white-plastered walls and ceilings and their varicolored tiles; to Mexico for her embossed tin and tooled leather and her decorative garlands of dried gourds, fruits, and vegetables; to France and Switzerland for colorful and picturesque toiles and other decorative accessories; to the Netherlands for their quaint Dutch doors and their exquisite lace window curtains; to Germany, Scandinavia, the Islands of the seas, and the countries of the Far East for their untold treasures of beauty—to all of these, and others, we are indebted for much of the beauty in the heart of our own homes. CONCLUSION A kitchen which is clean, orderly, and efficient helps to establish the atmosphere for happy home living. If, along with these indispensable qualities, it is enhanced in beauty with the things which the family loves to live with, the kitchen can truly be called the heart of the home. To Discuss (If desired, these suggestions could precede the conclusion.) 1. A 3. How can we apply these desired qualities to our own kitchens? Can we achieve these ends and still live within our budget? Discuss how an efficient kitchen can lessen rather than add to the work load of the homemaker. Give examples showing how cleanliness and beauty in the kitchen are conducive to the well-being of the family.