[Vol54 | October 1967 | Page 772 | General Feature | Notes From the Field Relief | Society Activities]
[Notes From the Field Relief Society Activities]

In June 1966, the group was organized into a district by President Garner. This is typical of the growth throughout the mission." East Rigby Stake (Idaho) Visiting Teacher Convention April 1, 1967 Front row, left to right: LaVella Brown, Secretary; Fern Rhodes, Homemaking Counselor; Beth Brown, President; Renee Graham, Education Counselor. Second row, left to right: Florence Monson, stake visiting teacher message leader; Vera Sperry, ward president; Mary Ferguson, ward secretary; Isabelle Goff, ward visiting teacher message leader; Reva Finn, ward secretary; Mame Smith and Rachel Gallup, visiting teachers, each having served fifty-three years. Sister Brown reports: "The theme for our convention was 'You Are Emissaries of Relief Society.' Several speakers and the Ririe First Ward Singing Mothers highlighted the program. An original skit presenting the true life experiences and problems of our stake was performed; and the lovely film 'Unto the Least of These' was shown. "The Shelton Ward was presented the book, History of Relief Society for I having the highest percentage in attendance at the convention. Special honors and a book were presented to two sisters for having served as visiting teachers for fifty-three years. A ward president, two secretaries, and a ward visiting teacher message leader were also cited for long years of service in their respective callings." 772 ee BF POSES « October 1967 North Box Elder Stake (Utah) Visiting Teacher Social April 29, 1967 Sister Nina H. Beecher, President, North Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports that a highly successful visiting teacher social was held to honor the ladies who had served so faithfully. "There were over 200 in attendance," she writes. '""Lunch was served by the stake board and was followed by a fashion show. Each ward had models showing what mothers can do to stretch their clothing budget. The cost of the articles displayed' was compared with their counterparts in stores. Sisters were encouraged to avail themselves of a sewing program to be carried on during the summer. "Honors were given for various attainments, among which Sister Nellie Hansen, eighty-one, was honored as being the eldest teacher, teaching for over fifty years. "The Bear River Ward received a lovely picture of the Relief Society General Presidency for being the ward with the highest percentage of visiting teachers at Relief Society meetings during the past season." > Alameda Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Program For Anniversary Day, March 15, 1967 Hazel Farnes, President, Alameda Stake Relief Society, reports: "To celebrate our Relief Society's 125th birthday, we presented a lovely musical program 'The Mothers Sing,' and the dramatization "The Gift' by Luacine C. Fox. The program was arranged under the leadership of President Farnes and her Counselors Dorothy Bosquet and Lena Henderson, and music directors La Dawn Jackman and Carol Furniss. Wilma Anderson was narrator of "The Gift, and wrote the script for the concert. The Singing Mothers chorus, composed of singers from each of the seven wards, consisted of 110 members. Each ward presented a solo number, then the combined chorus sang hymns and Relief Society songs. It was truly a spiritual experience for those taking part and also for the audience. Each sister in the chorus was presented with a beautiful red carnation corsage." Palomar Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Concert For Relief Society Anniversary Observance, March 17, 1967 Front row: Mary E. Stewart, director (in white dress); second row, at the right: Mary Stucki, pianist; Mary Jo Lund, organist. Phyllis F. Fox, President, Palomar Stake Relief Society, reports: ""The Palomar Stake Relief Society presented the first Singing Mothers concert ever to be presented in the stake in commemoration of the 125th Anniversary. Seven out of the nine wards were represented, making a total of thirty-nine Singing Mothers. Fourteen selections, both sacred and secular, were presented, along with a narration written and read by Eleanor Diener, stake cultural refinement leader. Guest artists presented a flute and string ensemble. Approximately 600 people, including many nonmembers, attended. The comments received were very gratifying, and a standing ovation was given the sisters at the conclusion of the program. Many hours of practice went into preparation for the concert, and the sisters are to be commended. Refreshments in the form of a beautiful three-tiered cake, baked and decorated by the stake homemaking leader, Carol Christensen, and punch were served. Displays depicting the full Relief Society program were set up around the hall for viewing." 

774 October 1967

 Las Vegas (Nevada) Stake Encourages Magazine Sales ' Left to right: Mary Ann Sorenson; Dee Snickle; Donna Brinkerhoff; Sharon Rather; Fannie Bloxham, stake Magazine representative; Adaline McDonald; Afton Allsop; Ann Smith; Kay Rogers; Norma Bowman. Sister Ileann W. Peterson, President, Las Vegas Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Through their dedicated effort, this group of ward and branch Relief Society Magazine representatives has earned the Las Vegas Stake seventh place among the stakes of the Church in Magazine sales. We are very proud of this fine record. To encourage the Magazine representatives to increase their sales, the beautiful picture 'The Gleaners' was presented to the ward with the largest number of Magazines sold. The Ninth Ward received this painting to hang in their Relief Society room. Sister Adaline McDonald, Magazine representative of the Ninth Ward, sold 170 Magazines, which was seventy-four over her quota. She achieved 177 per cent." Boise Stake (Idaho) Presents "'Listen, My Fair Lady'' March 13, 1966 Shown welcoming the "'postlady'' Genevieve Cresswell, who is delivering The Relief Society Magazines, are, left to right, front row: Clara Anderson; Arvilla Sorenson; back row, left to right: Rachel Rich; Violet Hadley; Ethel Simpson; Lola (Realizin I. DoLittle) Harris; and Lucille Parker. President Lucille Johnson, Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: "The original skit 'Listen, My Fair Lady' was presented in our leadership meeting by our magazine department. It was written by Wyleen Fotheringham and presented in Relief Society General Conference in 1966. "Our audience was captivated by the neighbors of Realizin I. DoLittle, who represents all Magazine representatives. They gathered on 'The Street Where You Live' and demonstrated how life is changed through the magic of The Relief Society Magazine. An enchanting setting, a worthwhile message, and an excellent performance made the 'Magazine Musical' a highlight of our leadership year." Mount Logan Stake (Utah) Commemorates the Birth of Relief Society March 17, 1967 Pictured is a handmade gold leaf plaque of the Relief Society seal. It was made by Zeruah Thomson, stake Homemaking Counselor, who is standing at left. Center is President Relda Jorgensen; right, Counselor Lucille Campbell. Sister Jorgensen reports: ""The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo, now known as the Relief Society, was organized on March 17, 1842 in Nauvoo, Illinois. "On March 17, 1967, we celebrated the 125th birthday of the organization. Typical of the crafts in the homemaking department is this handmade plaque mounted on blue velvet. It was made in memory of Sister Thomson's grandmother who served as Relief Society President for twenty-five years, and to her mother, who was a stake board member, as well as to those first eighteen women who organized the Relief Society. To commemorate the birthday of the Relief Society, Sister Thompson presented this plaque to the Mt. Logan Stake Relief Society." 

776 October 1967

 Farr West Stake (Utah) Presents ''Leadership Through the Years' March 18, 1967 Seated, left to right: former Farr West Stake Relief Society presidents: Nellie W. Neal; Geneva J. Garfield; Geneva Law; standing: Ada J. Taylor and current President Saidie H. Parker. Sister Parker reports: "In our stake Relief Society leadership meetings for the past two years, each ward, in turn, has featured the life of one of our past stake Relief Society presidents. "A life-sized book entitled 'Leadership Through the Years' was opened by two attendants to reveal the 'president' in retrospect. A sketch of her personality and activities was given; as well as lovely music befitting the program. The sister representing the president bore her testimony and told of the many cherished and inspiring experiences which highlighted her term in office." East Idaho Falis Stake Cultural Fair April 7, 1967 Rita Haws, chairman of the flower arrangements, pictured with the display tables. Glen Sargent, President, East Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: "We held our cultural fair as a means of raising money for the stake to operate on. Although the fair was held during April Conference which prevented the attendance of some of the bishops and the stake presidency, we had a large turnout during the day and in the evening. We awarded prize ribbons for many of the entries. "The program, we felt, was outstanding. We had the winning poetry and stories from our literature contest read, and original music was performed, of which two were sacred numbers. We printed a booklet of all entries in the literature contest. "The evening program was based on the theme 'Time For Culture,' and featured various fields of culture. There was a great deal of enthusiasm created, and we have had requests for a similar affair next year." Smithfield Stake (Utah) Holds Closing Social April 24, 1967 Left to right, ward Relief Society presidents: Evelyn H. Hansen, Amalga; Laura C. Hensen, Second; Deanna H. Godfrey, Clarkston; Kathryn T. Rasmussen, Newton; Joy J. Pitcher, First; Reta C. Cantell, Fifth; Evelyn D. Follett, Fourth; Rae J. Meyer, Third. Sister Selena Gregory Low, President, Smithfield Stake Relief Society, reports: "The closing social was held in conjunction with the regular leadership meeting. The theme, 'Everyone Remembered' was used to emphasize the efforts made to involve every sister in some phase of Relief Society. Working women and young mothers took part. In a lovely, inspiring presentation. A beautiful homemaking display from the Amalga and Second Wards was presented. Recipes from The Relief Society Magazine were used for the delicious luncheon, with reference to each recipe on the printed programs. An exquisite table decoration was arranged by Sister Edna Berg, Smithfield Third Ward."