[Vol54 | October 1967 | Page 742 | Special Feature | The Finite View | Helen Hinckley Jones]
[The Finite View Helen Hinckley Jones]

These little boys have learned two things: that their father loves them, and that his word is their law. They know exactly what to expect of him at other hours, too. He often prepares their breakfast, since he goes to work early, and they are usually up and hungry before six. He is a master at preparing eggs and pancakes, but his specialty is cooked cereal, which he makes fascinating with cake 742 coloring—pink or yellow, green or blue. The first little boy who awakens arouses the other, and they go into their parents' room. "Blue mush, Daddy," Sean demands, and they stay close until their father shows signs of responding. If they sleep a little later, and he has already left, they say sadly to each other, "He's gone," and they go to Craig's room to play with their toys. It would be breaking a law to bother Momie so early. They know the hours their father can spend with them, the hours he must study or work in his basement shop or train the dog. They know when the family takes the dune-buggy to the desert on a sunny Saturday that each will have a chance to hold the steering wheel while sitting between his father's knees. He is their ideal, the center of their lives. (Not that they don't love Momie. She ranks first when Daddy isn't at home or when someone is sick or hurt.) His actions are completely predictable—that is, his actions in relation to them. But of the hours that he is away from them they know little. "Where is Daddy, Sean?" I ask. "Daddy works," he replies promptly. "What does Daddy do?" "Daddy drives a truck." At times he has stopped by home during his lunch break and he has been driving the telephone company truck. Besides, they know about trucks. They have a whole fleet of tiny ones that are go-everywhere toys. They know all about driving, too, since each has a pedal car which he can HAPPINESS IS BEING WITH DADDY Gary Gene Ballard-with his sons Craig Eugene and Sean Drew drive forward and backward and maneuver into the tiniest parking spaces. It is perfectly comprehensible that Daddy drives a truck. From the wisdom of two added years and a chance encounter with a telephone crew on the way from nursery school, Craig adds, "But sometimes he sits on a pole." Neither of the boys has any idea about what the man they know so well really does. Maintenance of telephone lines and cables is something that they couldn't understand, even if it were explained to them. They know their father as love and care and law, and they can't realize that his life and activities go far beyond their finite view. It isn't going to be too hard for hy, Sean and Craig to learn about their Heavenly Father. Because their earthly father is the person he is, they will understand about God's constant love, the security they can feel because he is close, the laws they must obey, because they are God's laws. The boys will grow in wisdom. Even before they are men, they will realize that their father was never limited to the facet of life they shared as his children. As they grow still more mature in faith and knowledge, they will realize, too, that man knows only the face of God that is turned toward him. Beyond that facet of God's life lie the infinite mysteries that we can understand only when we, ourselves, have become godlike.