[Vol54 | October 1967 | Page 759 | General Feature | I Remember Mama Dorothy | M. Owen]
[I Remember Mama Dorothy M. Owen]

It was not until I was a grown woman 

759 October 1967

 that Mama gave me the privilege of reading the treasured letters. To all of us children, the letters in the little white box were a symbol of the love and devotion Mama and Papa had for each other. Never at any time in all our lives did we doubt for a moment but that Mama was the top lady in Papa's life and that Papa was the top man in her life. Avcross the meadow from our home lived my Uncle Sanders, whom we loved to visit. One day, when I was about five years of age, while playing in the sand in his yard, I found a beautiful sparkling button. Feeling that it was of no value to him, and since it was so lovely, I took it home with me. Laying it upon the table, as I removed my _ sweater, Mama kindly asked, "Where did you get the button?" "T found it in Uncle Sander's yard," I replied. "Then it doesn't belong to you. Put on your sweater and take it to your Uncle Sanders and tell him where you found it." Falteringly I retraced my steps to Uncle Sanders. Oh, how I dreaded those last few steps before reaching his home. I knocked lightly, hoping he wouldn't be there. As the door opened, I was greeted by a smiling Uncle Sanders. "Well, has my little girl come back to see me?" He took me up in his arms. I opened my hand, showing him the button, and said, "I found this pretty button in your yard, and I thought that you had thrown it away so I took it home. 760 Mama said that it was not mine and that I must bring it back to you, so here it is." "You may have the button and welcome, little one, it is of no value to me." His gracious gift was beautiful to me, but Mama's word overpowered his kindness so I could not accept it. I sadly put the button in his hand. Mama had taught me an enduring principle of honesty. An organized schedule was arranged by Mama, and each child was assigned specific duties, which varied each week. Each one soon learned his schedule, and knew he was responsible for doing the job. One washed breakfast dishes, another dinner dishes, another made beds, another swept the floor. If one had to be away and could not attend to the job, he arranged for another of the children to exchange assignments for the day. Very seldom did anyone have to be reminded of his job. Mama taught each to be responsible. Mama's unselfishness was an outstanding quality of her character. There was truly always room for one more at our house. The walls seemed to bulge at times, from an overflow of company. As long as there was floor space, she piled quilts until there was a bed of fair comfort. The eating was no problem, for the children waited until the first group had been served their dinner. Then the table was reset for the children. I will admit, at times, the company seemed to eat for a long time, or so it seemed to us hungry youngsters. 4 We lived near the highway, and often people came to the door, asking for food or shelter. They were never turned away. Mama cooked a good meal for them and a place was prepared for them to _ sleep, if they so desired. However, the children were never asked to give up their beds for these strangers. We had a nice warm barn. Hay was spread out, and Mama let Papa use her less beautiful quilts on the hay for the wayfarers. The quilts were not used again until they had been washed and hung in the sun to dry.