A TRIBUTE OF AFFECTION.

	Early on the morning of Monday, December
5th, 1887, in the Lion House, Salt Lake City, at
five minutes past one o’clock, the spirit of our be-
loved “Sister Eliza” passed away from earth, as
she herself had so beautifully expressed,
“To unite with the choirs in celestial love.'
Among the sisters over whom she presided she
was spoken of as “The Elect Lady,” and was
reverenced as the title indicated wherever the
organizations of the Latter-day Saint women ex-
isted. Her name is engraved imperishably in the
hearts of this people. Her life and character were
in perfect keeping with the holy religion she had
embraced. Her example is before all Israel, and
accords harmoniously with the teachings she has
given, and the precepts she has taught.
	Her days were lengthened out far beyond the
three score and ten, but they were filled up with 
usefulness, good works and noble deeds.
	Her condition, for some considerable time past,
has been that of failing health and waning strength,
yet her friends, especially those who were fondly 
attached to her, could scarcely believe she was so
soon to leave them. There was no disease prey-
ing upon her system, but slowly from day to day
she grew weaker, until it became evident to those
around her, she was about to join the ranks of
those who have fought the good fight and over-
come. And there is no doubt but “commissioned
escorts were waiting by” to accompany her to “a
glorious mansion” on high, where Joseph, the
Prophet, her husband, whom she loved and hon-
ored, was awaiting her coming with joyous antici-
pation, and where she would meet her father and
mother, and sister Leonora, to whom she was most
strongly attached, and many others near and dear,
with whom she had labored here, and blessed and
comforted. It is our loss, but her great gain. We
shall miss her in the labors devolving upon the
sisters more than words can tell; she was a leader,
an organizer, and her counsel was of the wisest
and best. Her judgment was par excellence, and
her words always choice and well-spoken. Her
self-poise and dignity of bearing were as notice-
able in everyday life as on great occasions. She
possessed many rare gifts and accomplishments,
and had cultivated them to the highest degree pos-
sible under the circumstances with which she had
been surrounded from time to time. The gift of
poesy may be considered the highest of her intel-
lectual qualities, but the influence for good that
she exerted for the benefit of others, more es-
pecially her own sex, both by instruction and ex-
ample, was what constituted her more truly great
than any poem she has written. Her exemplary
life and purity of character was not only, as Elder
Nicholson expressed it, “from beginning to close
a beautiful poem,” but was the poem of poems of
all, in itself the most complete and perfect. “A
Pen Sketch” of her life and labors was published
during her life-time in the EXPONENT a few years

[Column 2]
ago, but since that time she has traveled in the
several Stakes of Zion, and assisted greatly in de-
veloping the latent talent existing among the asso-
ciations, and encouraging that perseverance which
ever ensures success, Her words of kindness to
the young, and her tender solicitation for their
spiritual and eternal welfare should never be for-
gotten by any who have had the pleasure and
honor of sitting under the sound of her voice.
Notwithstanding the sketch of Sister Eliza, pub-
lished heretofore in these columns, it is but a
fitting tribute to her memory to review briefly her
public work, and to give a short memorial of her-
self.
	Eliza R. Snow was born at Becket, Berkshire
Co., Mass., January 21st, 1804. Her parents were
Oliver Snow of Mass., and Rosetta Leonora Petti-
bone of Conn. She was the second child of her
parents; Leonora A. Snow was the eldest. Leonora
was afterwards the wife of the Patriarch Isaac
Morley, who became identified with the Church at
a very early period of its history. Sister L. A.
Morley died at her brother Lorenzo’s home, in
Brigham City, Feb. 11th, 1872. The two sisters
were affectionately devoted to each other, and the
death of Sister Leonora was a sad blow to Sister
Eliza, leaving her more lonely, and causing her,
no doubt, to cling more fondly still to her favorite
brother, the Apostle, Lorenzo Snow. The rela-
tion of this brother and sister to each other has
been that of the most sublime and perfect devo-
tion.
	In 1806 Oliver Snow, with his wife and two
children, Leonora and Eliza, removed to Ohio and
settled in Mantua, Portage Co. It seems scarcely
necessary to say here, that the girls, Leonora and
Eliza, received the most careful and complete edu-
cation in the best schools of the day, and also ex-
cellent home-training under the management of a 
wise and judicious mother; these together laid the
foundation of a useful and honorable life.
	Early in her girlhood Miss Eliza R. Snow be-
came known and somewhat celebrated for her
poetical effusions, and even though young, she
chose lofty and exalted themes. She created quite
a sensation by writing at the time of the struggle
between Greece and Turkey, a poem, entitled,
"The Fall of Missilonghi." It is well known, to
all familiar with the history of this people, that
since Sister Eliza became a member of this 
Church she has devoted her best thoughts and her
pen to poems and writings upon the subjects and
themes of the Latter-day Saints; and in the midst
of trials, hardships, persecutions and difficulties
of various kinds, her mission has been to comfort, 
encourage, strengthen and bless, in the rare gift of 
poesy, all who labor for Zion and promote its in-
terests at home or abroad. She was baptized on
the 5th of April, 1835, and in December of the 
same year went to Kirtland, and boarded in the
family of the Prophet. While residing in the 
Prophet's house she taught his children in the ca-
pacity of governess, and was an intimate compan-
ion of Emma, the Prophet's wife. During her
sojourn in the home of the Prophet Joseph, the
friendship began which many years after-
wards ripened into the purest love, crowning
their union as husband and wife in the holy bonds
of matrimony. Sister Eliza enjoyed the blessings
and privileges vouchsafed to the Saints in the
Kirtland Temple at the time of its dedication, and 
on many other occasions, when gifts and
manifestations of the Spirit were so richly poured
out upon the assembled gatherings in that sacred
place.
	When the Saints moved up to Missouri. Sister
Eliza went thither with her father's family, arriving
in Far West, Caldwell, Co., Mo., on the 16th of 
July, 1837. In that State the Saints suffered
severe and cruel persecutions, and Sister Eliza
participated in the sorrows and afflictions. On
the 10th of December, 1838, in the cold bleak
winter weather, Sister Eliza, with her father's

[Column 3]

family, left her home in Davies Co., Mo., where
her father had purchased lands and settled,
having been ordered by the Governor of the State
to leave within ten days. The benevolent attri-
butes and sympathies of Sister Eliza, and in fact
the whole Snow family, were fully aroused at this
time in witnessing the pathetic scenes of sorrow
and of suffering that the Saints were called upon
to endure in that time of excessive trial. The 
family of Bro. Snow left Far West, whither they
had gone during the times of persecution, on the 
5th of March, 1839; the weather was then very
cold, but they were exiles driven from their homes
and possessions. Sister Eliza and her sister
Leonora stopped in Quincy, Ill, and Bro. Snow
and family went to the northern part of that State.
In Quincy Sister Eliza wrote some very character-
istic articles for the press, and received very press-
ing solicitations to contribute other poetical 
articles. It was thought a novelty to find such
rare genius in a "Mormon" girl. From Quincy
the Misses Snow went to Lima, and there, for a 
time, supported themselves with needlework, in
which art Sister Eliza excelled, and of which pur-
suit she was very fond. In July Sidney Rigdon
sent for Miss E. R. Snow to come up to Commerce,
afterwards called Nauvoo, to teach his family 
school. In Nauvoo many important events oc-
curred, which have had a bearing upon her life
ever after. It was in Nauvoo that she wrote the
most sublime and lofty poetry, and an inspiration 
from on high seemed resting upon her constantly.
The revelations of God were poured out in rich
abundance at that time upon the Prophet Joseph, 
and Sister Eliza, in her poetie sentiments, seemed 
to share in the inspiration from above.
	At this period a new era dawned upon woman;
marriage and motherhood were supremely glorified
and eternal principles were revealed, and blessings
and eternal principles were revealed, and blessings
and privileges bestowed upon the faithful, great
in their future promise, not only for time but
reaching into the eternities to come.
	It was about this time that Sister Eliza com-	
posed "The Invocation," which so beautifully
portrays the home of our Father and Mother in
heaven, and so forcibly impresses the idea of
celestial union upon the Latter-day Saints, and
many strangers even, when they hear it sung for
the first time. These sublime sentiments, so
beautifully given, have been like a sweet and 
grateful incense to the hearts of many who yearned
for some expression of the intense emotion they
had not language to define. The hymn is full of
tenderness, and yet the strength of language carries
conviction with the words, The gift of prophecy 
is noticeable in the writings of this eminent
woman, and always seemed to fall gracefully from
either her lips or her pen.
	Miss Eliza R. Snow was Secretary of the Relief
Society organized in Nauvoo (of which Emma
Smith was President),  and she preserved the re-
cords, which have been quite important for refer-
ence many times since. The Prophet and other
leading men were in the habit of meeting with
the sisters there and giving valuable advice and
instruction. In July 1842, Miss Snow, the Secre
tary, had the honor of writing a petition to Gov.
Carlin, asking his protection for Joseph Smith. 
This petition was met with enthusiasm, and 
received the unanimous vote of the Relief Society,
and was signed by several hundred ladies. The
President, Mrs Emma Smith, Mrs. Amanda Smith
and Miss E. R. Snow were a committee to call up-
on the Governor at his residence in Quincy, Ill.
He received them cordially, and with great courtesy
listened to the purport of their visit, which was
presented by Mrs. E. Smith, and her Secretary 
presented the petition. The Governor responded
kindly, and gave assurances of his protection, say-
ing emphatically, "I believe Mr. Smith is inno-
cent." The ladies afterwards learned that at the
very time he was giving these assurances to them,


[Column 1]
he was plotting with Missouri officials for the de-
struction of the Prophet.
	Joseph Smith taught the principle of celestial
marriage to Miss Snow, and she believed his in-
spired words and became his wife in that holy
order of matrimony, and felt that no sacrifice was 
too great to establish again on earth the new and
and everlasting covenant of marriage, through the
holy order of the Melchisedec Priesthood. In the
Temple at Nauvoo Sister Eliza received a fulness
of the ordinances and blessings that were given
in that sacred house of the Lord. At the time of
the exodus she came with the first company that
left Nauvoo in February, and crossed the Missis-
sippi in the company of Col. Stephen Markham 
and family, and camped with thousands of others
who were living in tents and wagons preparatory
to starting on the journey to the Rocky Mountains.
On the 19th of February, 1846, she wrote a poem,
expressing the condition of the exiles; and after-
wards, again and again, poetry possessing origin-
ality and graphically describing the scenes and 
incidents in the lives and journeyings of the
Saints. Col. Markham stopped by the way, as 
did many others, to put in grain and make settle-
ments of those who were to follow. On the 19th 
of August they left Mt. Pisgah minus a teamster,
and Sister Markham falling sick, Sister Eliza was
left to drive. She said she soon learned to "haw
and gee," and acquitted herself creditably. On
the 27th they crossed the Missouri River at Council
Bluffs, and the next day arrived at Winter Quar-
ters. With the continued hardship and constant 
exposure Sister Eliza's health broke down, a slow 
fever set in and chills and fever followed, and she
lay in the wagon very ill; the heavy autumnal rains 
came on, and she was often dripping wet from 
head to foot; she herself realized her condition,
and that she was near the gates of death. She
summoned all her energies, and supreme faith came  
to her aid, though many died in consequence of
the priyation and hardships. When Sister Eliza 
was still ill and very feeble, she received the sad 
news of her mother's death. She bore it with the
patience and resignation characteristic of her
whole life, though she grieved that she could
never again behold her again in the flesh.
	In June, 1847, after the Pioneers had started
enroute to the Rocky Mountains to seek out a 
resting place for the Saints, Sister Eliza continued 
her pilgrimage with the family of Bro. Robert
Pearce, in the company under charge of Captain
Jedediah M. Grant. When this company would
find the track of the pioneers, and here and there
"all well" on a bleached buffalo skull, there was a 
general time of rejoicing. This company arrived 
in the valley early in October, and President
Young had made arrangements for Sister Eliza to 
live, with Sister Clara D. Young, who had accom-
panied him in the pioneers, and from that time un-
til her death Sister Eliza resided with the family of
Brigham Young, and after the Lion House was
built she lived there permanently until her death.
	Sister Eliza was designated by Joseph Smith
the Prophet, "Zion's Poetess," a title she has al-
ways retaiaed, and from time to time she has con-
tinued to write, to within a few months of her de-
mise. When the Relief Society was reorganized
in the valleys here, President Young gave Sister
Eliza a mission to assist the bishops in organizing,
and to take with her as a help and counselor Sis-
ter Zina D. Young. From that time to this she
has labored earnestly and faithfully in the interests 
of the women of Zion, traveling from place to 
place in all kinds of weather, wherever there was
an opportunity of doing good among the people.
	In 1869 Prest. Young called upon Sister Eliza to 
aid him in effecting an organization of Young 
Ladies, commencing with his own daughters, in
which she assisted; it was called a Retrenchment 
Association. Resolutions were prepared by her,
which Prest. Young approved, setting forth the

[Column 2]

object of the members in meeting together. These 
organizations were afterwards called Young Ladies'
Mutual Improvement Associations, and have since
been organized in every ward in the several Stakes
of Zion.
	The next most important event in the life of 
Sister Eliza was her journey to the Holy Land.
Apostle Lorenzo Snow met her in Ogden, and
Prest. Geo. A. Smith joined the party in New
York. Sister E. R. S. S. left Salt Lake City on
the 26th of October, 1872. The company sailed
on the steamer Minnesota for Liverpool on the 6th 
of November.
	Sister Eliza's visits while in the Holy Land to 
the places of note are all graphically described in
the book entitled, "Correspondence of the Pales-
tine Toursits." We shall only mention her visit
to the Mount of Olives. On Sunday, March 2nd,  
1873, with Prest. George A. Smith and party, all
mounted on horseback, she ascended to the sum-
mit of that far-famed mountain. They had sent
before them tent, table, seats and carpet. The 
tent was pitched and service conducted there under 
the direction of the holy priesthood. It would be 
impossible to give in detail at this time the places 
she visited, or the poetic thoughts she poured
forth in verse, but she fully enjoyed visiting these
places noted in sacred history, and was always 
pleased to relate incidents concerning her travels
abroad, and particularly interested in conversing 
with those who had traveled over the same lands. 
Sister Eliza reached home on the evening of the
6th of July. In the EXPONENT of August 1st she 
published a "Salutation to the Ladies in Utah," ex-
pressing her joy, her good feeling and her sisterly
love, and on the 17th of August she addressed a 
very large assembly of ladies in the Ogden Taber-
nacle, and afterwards in Provo, and from that time 
onward, as long as she was physically able, she 
traveled among the people, organizing the sisters
encouraging and interesting them in the duties
pertaining to their missions here upon earth; and
the rich seed planted by her is bearing precious
fruit in the hearts and lives of the women and
children throughout the valleys of the mountains.
There are so many important events connected
with the life of Sister Eliza, when one reflects upon
the past, that they would fill volumes, and we need
only say that her whole life and energies were de-
voted and consecrated to the work of God upon the earth.
	At the Sisters' Quarterly Conference, held in the 
Assembly Hall in this city, June 19th, 1880, Prest. 
John Taylor nominated Sister E. R. S. Smith to
preside over the Relief Society of the Church of
Jesus Christ in all the world, and she was sus-
tained by the unanimous vote of the conference.
She chose as her Counselors at that time Sisters
Zina D. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney, who
were also nominated by Prest. Taylor and sus-
tained in like manner; Sister Sarah M. Kimball 
as Secretary, and Sister M. Isabella Horne,
Treasurer, and at the General Conference in 
April, afterwards these sisters were sustained by 
unanimous vote. Sister Eliza has had many ova-
tions and tributes of honor, and she has proved 
worthy of all. She leaves behind her excellent
example and teachings, and her books, which will
preserve her memory ever fresh in the archives of
of the Church. Sister Eliza has ever been brave,
strong and unflinching in the positions she has 
held, and such a life needs no comment, for her
words and her works speak for her, but the
daughters of Zion should emulate her wise ex-
ample and follow in her footsteps.
		FUNERAL SERVICES.
	Sister Eliza's remains lay in the Lion House
parlor after her death until Wednesday morning,
Dec. 7th. The families of Lorenzo Snow and
Brigham Young assembled at the Lion House on 
that morning; also many of her intimate friends
and co-laborers, and these followed in procession 
to the Assembly Hall. The coffin, which was of

[Column 3]

native wood, highly polished, was carried by the
members of the High Council of this Stake, un-
der the direction of Prest. Angus M. Cannon.
The congregation assembled there was very large, 
and no woman could have more respect paid her
than was given to this distinguished woman--
Zion's Poetess and The Elect Lady.
	The organ and the speakers' stands were draped
in white, in accordance with the wishes of the de-
ceased, and long sprays of green vines were hung
in such a way as to give a graceful and pretty ef-
fect to the drapery. Vases of flowers were
placed here and there upon the stands. On and
around the coffin, which rested in front of the 
Bishops' stand, were choice flowers in the most
beautiful designs, wreaths, crosses, anchors,
crowns, etc., the gifts of loving friends, and a 
sheaf of ripe wheat, tied with white ribbon, em-
blematic of her ripe age, and that her work was 
finished. Prest. Angus M. Cannon conducted 
the services. The choir sang the hymn beginning,
		"I know that my Redeemer lives."
	Prayer was offered by Bishop Alexander Mc-
Rae.
	The choir sang the beautiful hymn composed 
by Sister Eliza herself. 
		"O, my Father, Thou that dwellest,"
		PRESIDENT ANGUS M. CANNON.
	The sentiments we have just heard sung are 
sublime sentiments of devotion to our God. Our 
sister, whose casket lies before us, was well quali-
fied to come to earth at the time of her advent.
From the time she heard the inspired utterances
of the Prophet, her efforts were solely directed to
sustaining the servants of God. Her poetic muse
took the most exquisite flights. When her voice 
has been heard it has been heard stimulating her
sisters to glorify the Creator. The speaker had 
been intimately acquainted with the deceased of
late years, more so than formerly, although in 
boyhood he had looked upon her as among the
noblest of her sex. She was fitted to be the wife 
of the great Prophet of the Nineteenth century. 
Her husband had given his life's blood for the 
cause of redemption. She had followed his
teachings faithfully. Of late her heart had been
moved by a prospect of her brethren and sisters
having to pass through great tribulation, before
the deliverance of the Saints should be accom-
plished. The speaker paid a glowing tribute to 
the worth of the departed, who was exemplary 
and noble in every particular during her earthly
probation.
		ELDER JOSEPH C. KINGSBURY
endorsed every word already spoken concerning
our deceased sister, who was one of the earliest
to embrace the truth and the new and everlasting
covenant. She had made a sacrifice that had 
been accepted of the Lord. So also should we be
ready to make any sacrifice that may be required 
of us, that we may be justly entitled to a similar
reward.
		ELDER J. B. NOBLE.
	He was grateful for the opportunity to bear his
testimony to the worth of Sister Eliza. From the
commencement of her labors in this work he was
favored with her society. He crossed the desert 
from Nauvoo to this valley in her company. Her 
life has been one of the very highest grade. She 
has accomplished a mighty work in the fullest 
sense. It behooves us to look into our own 
hearts, that we may ascertain whether we also are
obeying the golden rule. He asked the blessing 
of the Lord upon the relatives and the sisters of
the deceased, that they may emulate her virtues,
and be worthy to associate with her in eternity.
		ELDER JACOB GATES
was glad of the opportunity of bearing testimony
to the goodness of the respected dead. It was
pleasing to see so large an assembly on this occa-


sion. Had known Sister Eliza for many years.
She was second to none of the prominent women
of this last dispensation. She nobly filled the
mission to which she was appointed in the early
rise of the Church. She never wavered nor fal-
tered, but her faith was onward and upward to
the very climax of human excellence. But a
short time hence and but few will remain who
were familiar with the Prophet Joseph Smith, but
the triumph of this work is approaching. What
we are now passing through is the work of purifi-
cation and preparation for the consummation of
the designs of God in relation to His people and
Church.
		APOSTLE JOHN W. TAYLOR
was thankful to hear the eulogies that had been
passed upon the deceased, whom he had known
from his infancy, although not closely acquainted
with her. She had finished her work, and would
reap her reward accordingly. The works of Sis-
ter Smith are before us all. We can pattern after
them with profit. She embraced the everlasting
Gospel and is entitled to the promise given by the
Redeemer in relation to those who forsake earthly
relatives and interests for His sake. As George
Washington is called the father of his country, so
is our sister entitled,in a certain sense,to be desig-
nated the mother of this people. Her career
makes the endearing title appropriate as applied
to her. She would continue to live in the hearts
and memories of the Saints.
		ELDER MILO ANDRUS
said hehad been acquainted with Sister Eliza for 45
years. He had never seen a speck that would in-
dicate a misstep in her life. He bore testimony to
the goodness and virtues she had exhibited during
her sojourn on earth. This occasion was not a
subject of mourning. Thousands will call her
mother in Israel and enjoy her society forever.
When she meets the acts she performed on the
earth, she will be able to confront the record with-
out hesitation; therefore all is well. In all the
tribulations and hardships suffered by the Saints
on the deserts and elsewhere, the speaker had
never observed a symptom of a murmur from the
deceased. Such a statement could be made in re
lation to but few.
			ELDER A. O. SMOOT.
	Words of eulogy would fail to add anything to
the characteristics of Sister Smith. She has been
known in the Church almost from the beginning,
and is well known to the present generation
What I might say in relation to my acquaintance
with her would not affect her condition. She has
testified in various ways to the excellence and
power of truth. She has done this not only by
precept, but also by example, which speaks in
louder tones. It is but little use to repeat the
story of her good works. Let us endeavor to so
live that we will meet her with Joseph, Hyrum
and David Patten—the martyrs who have sacri-
ficed their lives for the truth’s sake.
		ELDER JOHN NICHOLSON
said, in substance, that the whole being of the
departed had been devoted to the legitimate pur-
pose of the Creator. Her works were the pro-
duct of a proper and active use of a bright intellect,
a keen moral susceptibility, and a sympathetic
nature. Many of her mental productions are left
to us clothed in all the beauty that chaste language
and poetic imagery could give them. Her whole
life, being of an elevated character, was from be-
ginning to close, a beautiful poem.
		BISHOP O. F. WHITNEY
said he would not attempt to say a hundredth part
of what he felt. It fell to his lot, on two oc-
casions, during the last illnes of our sister, to lay
hands upon her head and bless her in the name
of the Lord. He could not but mark the flow of the

[Column 2]
Spirit, there being apparently no end to the prom- 
ises he felt to make her. She not only has the confidence of her earthly associates, but the ap-
proval of the Spirit of God, which cannot err.
She was one of the noble and great ones of the
earth. It was the lot of the deceased to be hon-
ored both of God and man This is not always
the case with the good and pure. She not only
held public position and trust, but she wisely, just-
ly and kindly used the powers with which she was
thus entrusted. She is not dead, but lives. May
God help us to emulate the example of our sister
who has left us for a holier shere.
		APOSTLE HEBER J. GRANT,
Said nothing that could be expressed would add
to the record of Sister Eliza. He knew of no in-
dividual who was more worthy of eternal blessings.
Instead of mourning we may rejoice that one so
good and pure has gone home to reap a glorious
reward. It is a day of rejoicing to her. He had
been intimately acquainted with the departed from
his early youth, and had been the recipient of
many marks of kindness at her hands. Language
was inadequate to enable the speaker to express
himself as he wished. He set great store upon
the good examples of the faithful, which were
more potent than precepts. There was no exam-
ple ever set by Sister Eliza except that which was
of such a character that it could be profitably fol-
lowed. The speaker contemplated her career with
pleasure and was glad that she had gone to join
the ranks of the faithful and true, her work in this
life having been fully accomplished.
		PRESIDENT CANNON
explained some of the last wishes of the deceased.
She had desired that no one should be around her
in her last moments who was unable to control his
or her emotions. She wished that no mourning 
should be expressed. The emblems with which the stand were decorated were in accordance with 
her choice. She maintained to the last that woman-
ly serenity and dignity that had characterized her 
entire career. She still lives in the organizations 
she was instrumental in establishing among her
sisters, and in the good which she had produced.
One of her beautiful traits was her humility, ex-
hibited in her submission to the instructions of her
brethren whose prerogative it was to direct her
labors.
	The choir sang the beautiful song composed by
the deceased:
	“Bury me quietly when I die,”
	Benediction by Patriarch John Smith.
	The congregation passed in line around the cas-
ket and viewed the face of the dead.
	The cortege which followed the remains to the
private cemetery of the late President Brigham
Young was formed under the direction of Bishop
John R. Winder. Members of the High Council
of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion acted as pallbear-
ers. Immediately following the casket were Apos-
tle Lorenzo Snow and other relatives of the de-
ceased. then the widows of the late President
Young and other intimate associates of the de-
ceased; following these were members of the Re-
lief Society, over which Sister Smith
had presided, the general assemblage bringing up
the rear.
	At the grave Apostle Heber J. Grant offered
the dedicatory prayer, and President Angus M.
Cannon thanked the people for showing their re-
spect for the deceased by turning out in such
large numbers, The mortal remains of one of
the noblest and purest women were laid in their
last resting-place, to await the trump of the res-
urrection.


