EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking the following from Josephus might 
aid to inspire mothers to bring up their child-
ren as heroes for God and righteousness, I ask 
that you insert it in the EXPONENT:
	In the days of ancient Israel cruelties the 
most atrocious are recorded concerning the acts

[column 2]
of their enemies, some of which rival, if not 
excel, the cruel persecutions of the Latter-day
Saints. Among the many cruelties recorded in 
history, we notice that of King Antiochus,
whose persecution of the Maccabees has stamped
his name with eternal disgrace and imfamy.
This tyrant, seated upon a tribunal, surrounded
by his counselors and a strong body of armed
men, commanded many of the Hebrews to be
summoned into his presence on account of their
refusal to eat swine's flesh and meats offered to 
idols. Numbers suffered the death penalty
rather than to eat thus, among whom was 
Eleazer, a noted person, of the family of the
priests, by profession, who was also a lawyer, 
far advanced in years, and known to several of 
the summoned multitude. Antiochus, observ-
ing the venerable sage, thus addressed him:
"Before I proceed to use severity, let me advise
thee, reverend old man, to save thine own life
by submitting to eat of swine flesh, for I pay 
great respect to thy age and grey hairs, and am 
surprised that the experience of so many years
should not have made thee wiser than still to
persist in the Jewish superstition. It seems to
me a most unreasonable thing for men to
abridge themselves of any innocent pleasure, 
thus doing great injustice to themselves.' But
Eleazar, having time to speak for himself to the
King, replied that he would not eat the king's 
meats, for it was unclean, as God who created
our nature had due regard to it."
	"Eleazar, having made this noble and spiritual
reply to the tyrant, was then dragged by the
guards that stood round, to suffer the most 
cruel torment. The guards pulled off the old
man’s garments, the venerable garb of his re-
ligion, and, having bound his hands behind
him. scourged him most unmercifully, an officer
calling out at every stroke, "Obey the King's 
command." The brave Eleazar, however, sus-
tained this barbarity as if he had been in a 
dream, without deviating a tittle from his pro-
fession. The good old man stood with his eyes 
uplifted to heaven, while the blood streamed
down his body to the ground. No longer able 
to sustain the torments he felt, he fell upon the 
pavement. One of the guards stamped upon 
him in order to raise him; still he bore their 
barbarous insolence with surprising constancy,
suffering their stripes till his very tormentors
stood in admiration, and wondered to find so
noble a soul in a body so aged. Not being able 
to change him, they brought him to the fire.
There they applied new instruments of torture; 
threw him upon the fuel, and as he burned,
poured scalding nauseous liquid up his nostrils.
Burned to the very bone, and ready to expire,
he lifted up his eyes to heaven: "Thou seest,
my God, the miseries I endure, and that I
choose to die by fire and torment for the sake of 
Thy law. Be Thou gracious, Lord, to Thy own
people, and let the vengeance on me suffice for
what they have deserved. Make Thou my
blood purification for them, and accept my life
instead of lives." With these words this pious
man gave up the ghost.
	“Pursuant to the order of the aforsaid, there
were brought before the tyrant seven sons with
their ancient mother. The symmetry of their
forms and elegance of their deportment at-
tracted his notice, and, therefore, after behold-
ing them with a kind of approbation, he com-
manded them to approach, and thus accosted
them: The officers told the aged mother and 
seven sons to obey the king's law, but they 
would not do it. The tyrant said, "You have
nothing to expect but racks, fire and death."
The tyrant had no sooner thus spoken than he
commanded the instruments of torture to be
produced, in order to work more strongly upon
their fears; their words and menaces, he im-
agined would accomplish the design. When 
the guards had set before them the wheels,
racks and combustible materials, and other 
instruments of horror and execution, Antiochus,


taking advantage of the impression he sup-
posed this spectacle, would make, once more
appealed to them in turns to this effect, but they
were so far from being terrified that they de-
nied obedience to the king. One of the officers
said, “You are about to suffer torture, and you
cannot endure it.” One of the sons said, “Try
us, and see if it be in thy power to destroy our
souls when we suffer in the cause of God and
religion.” The officer asked them to eat of the
king’s meat, but in vain. The one answered,
“Think not, base man, that your wheels can
destroy my reason. Break my limbs in pieces,
burn my flesh; it is the peculiar glory of a
Hebrew to be firm in suffering for the cause of
virtue.” They then put fire under him, and
exposed his body to the flames, insomuch that
he exhibited, a spectacle horrible to behold,
thus continuing till nothing was left of him
but a skeleton of broken bones. He was not
heard to utter a groan. He was a descendant
of faithful Abraham, and exclaimed, “My
brethren, follow my example; desert me not in
this noble conflict, nor disclaim the relation and
generous constancy by which we are allied in
soul more nearly than in blood."
	The guards advanced with the second brother,
and fixed his hands in manacles of iron. They
talked to him before they put him to the rack;
they tore off the flesh with pinchers, and flayed
off the skin of his face and head; they skinned
him from head to foot. Not content with
mangling his body in this merciless manner,
they dragged him to the wheel, where, being
yet more distended, he saw his own flesh torn
from him, and streams of blood gushing from
his body. When at the point of death, he ex-
claimed, “Merciless tyrant!” The fifth ex-
claimed, “Do we not worship the universal
parent of nature?” They fastened his knees
with iron tongs, stretched him round the engine,
and then broke his joints, he bearing testimony
to the truth of his religion.
	The sixth youth was brought before An-
tiochus. The officers talked to him in the
same way; he resolutely answered, “My mind is
the same as my brothers,” and suffered death.
The officers then offered to make the youngest
brother governor of the state if he would re-
cant, but he also refused, and suffered death in
the same manner. The mother, refusing, suf-
fered death in like manner."
		Your sister in the Gospel,
					SARAH ROBERTS.
	Goshen, Utah Co.


