INTERESTING PARTY.

	On the evening of Friday, October 21st,
1887, a most delightful surprise party was ten-
dered to Mrs. Jane S. Richards, President of
the Relief Society of Weber Stake of Zion, in the
Fourth Ward School House, Ogden City. The
movers in the matter were Sister Emily Shurt-
liff, Counselor to the President of the Stake,
and Sisters Marianna Stratford, Maria Cham-
bers and Elizabeth Parkinson, Presidency of
the Fourth Ward Relief Society.
	It was successfull in every respect. Sister
Richards and her family had no inkling of it
until they reached the school house, where a 
large company of invited guests awaited them.
Sister Richards, though very much opposed to
praise or undue attention for herself, was
obliged to yield to the very sincere manner and
charming nature of the compliment paid to
her. 
	An elegant banquet was spread, and music,
songs, recitations and speeches occupied the
time, except while the guests were conversing
and feasting at the table. 
	Apostle Richards gave an entertaining and
instructive speech, full of helpful counsel to
the sisters. 
	The following address, accompanied by a 
tasteful little memento, was presented to Sister
Richards:
	“The object of our meeting togother this even-
ing is, as has been announced, a social gather-
ing of brethren and sisters, a reunion of friends,
while our main object is to show our apprecia-
tion of, and our sincere love for our worthy
and highly esteemed President, Sister Jane S.
Richards.
	Dear Sister, we shall not attempt this even-
ing to enumerate all your many virtues, nor to
elaborate upon your noble example; your life
and labors are well known to us  all, and are
recorded in heaven, where each will be re-
warded according to the deeds done in the body.
While not working for earthly honors, or the
praise of man, still it is comforting sometimes
to know that one’s labors are appreciated by
those with whom we are associated, and it is
our desire on this occasion to tell in a few
words that we do appreciate your labors as a 
helping friend and a leader in our midst.
	Women of wealth and culture all through
the civilized world are devoting their best
energies to the solution of the problem of social
improvement; but does it have for its basis the
Gospel of Jesus Christ, the development of the 
inner life of feeling and of soul from which 
springs all that is highest and holiest in man-
kind? No; religion is of no import with them.
In this the women of Zion stand as leaders
among women.
	All honor, then, to the noble women of Zion!
among whom stands prominently our worthy 
President. As an organizer you have achieved
much; as a leader your example has ever been
to inspire nobler and loftier sentiments in the
hearts of your sisters. Your counsels have
ever been fraught with that wisdom that
emanates from on high. You have sowed the
seeds of love and union, truth and justice
wherever you have labored. A higher, better
type of womanhood has been your aim; onward
and upward has been your motto. Your whole 
life has been responsive to the melody the
angels sang-—"Peace on earth and good will to


men.” And your labors have not been in
public alone; they have reached into the homes
of the Latter-day Saints; the sick have been
comforted and blessed; the poor aided and made
glad; the despondent cheered and lifted up and
the careless reclaimed, and, as our Savior once
said, “Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of
the least of these, ye have done it unto me.”
	But we will not multiply words, only ask
you to accept this small gift, as a token of the
love and esteem in which you are held by the
sisters of the Fourth Ward Relief Society.
	Praying that heaven’s choicest blessings may
rest upon you during your remaining days upon
the earth, after which a happy reunion with
friends in the celestial kingdom of our God, we
subscribe ourselves.
		Yours sisters in the Gospel of peace,
	THE OFFICERS AND MEMBERS OF THE 
		FOURTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OF 
		OGDEN CITY.
	Oct. 21st, 1887.

	Mrs. Richards responded with a few words
well chosen, and expressive of loving regard
for her co-workers in the noble cause of hu-
manity.
	The ladies who managed the affair are to be
congratulated upon its success, and the good
taste with which it was conducted.  
								COM.


