AUNT JERUSHA ON COOK BOOKS.

	Wall, I declar, if it aint the funniest sight
I've saw for a long time to see them smart
young misses now-a-days, with their hair all
fizzle fuz, and great aprons that cover the whole
body, going inter the kitchen with a big book,
and some scales and a goodness knows what, to
mus up all the kitchen tables and pans and
spoons for some one else ter wash, and showin'
off their interlectual cooking. When I wuz in
town visitin a spell, Maria Ann, John's cousin,
tho’ thar they don't call her such, but only
Mareah, though it’s her own christin name, and
I can't see but what's good enuf when we're
young, ought ter be good enuf when we're on
the other side of fifty to go by. Wall, as I
wus sayin, when I was thar visitin her girls 
said, "Mama, whare's the cook book? I guess
I'll make Aunt Jerusha some cookies to take
home with her fur lunch.” For the land sakes,
says I, ef you’r goin ter the kitchen, Sarah
(for thet wuz the oldest girl's name, though
they call her Sadie in town), do leave your
larnin in the library, for, to tell the truth, I'm
thet narvous with your everlastin readin since
I cum, thet I don't know what to do. "But,
Aunt, this cook book, you see, tells us how to
make things, and we do as it says, and our
cakes and pies are always just right." You
don't say so; wall, I declar, if things aint come
to a purty pass, when you have to have books
for your hired girls, and can't put a pie or
nuthin in the oven without first lookin in a
book to see ef it's right; and who wrote it? I
bet ten cents it wuz a man, thet don't know no
more about cookin than a rooster. Go ter your
mother, girls, and what you don't know about
cookin she can tell yer, for she war a mighty
fine cook afore she cum here ter live, and
used ter put a dinner on the table fit fur a king,
and her mother told her how ter do it without
no books nor larnin of that sort. "But here,
Aunt, we have so many ideas, and new ones,
too; always looking after new ones" Wall, old
things are good enuff fur me so long as they
don't get musty, and I guess they can't say
much more about good bread and dumplins
and apple sars and vegetables and Thanksgivin
turkey and sech, then me and your mother
knew long afore yer wuz born, ken they now?
but let's see the thing, and find out what it does
do.
	I put on my specs and opened the book, al-
most a hatin to tech it; I believe I'd as soon, or
sooner, read a novel as that book that comes
inter houses and tells girls ther mothers don't
know nuthin, and ef they must be wives why
they must have a cookin book. Wall, I opened
it, and the first thing I spied wuz four long
pages about taters, I jest thought I’d bust as I
read about Saratoga taters, as ef every one
didn't know Utah taters wuz the best to be had;
and then it said cut em thin, put em in wate

[Column 2]
over night, changin the water three or four
times (who on arth, after a honest day's work,
wants ter be gettin up three or four times in
the night to change the water on a half dozen
taters), fry in hot greese, and take out with a
spoon; who'd think of stickin their fingers inter
hot greese to pick out a little chain of tater.
Wall, I says, girls, you jest pare your taters
thin, put em in a kittle of boilin water, with
some salt, and cook em till a fork will run in
easy, then pour off the water, and when they're
good and dry mash em right good, and pour in
a little cream and stir it around, or, if you
can't get cream take some milk, and butter and
pepper and salt, and fix em nice in a dish, and
put two or three nice pieces of butter on top,
and ef them taters aint as good as any in a
cookin book then my name aint Aunt
Jerusha.
	Wall I’d liked to kep that book longer, fur
it wuz astonishin what lots of things it did say,
but the girls laughed at me and tuk it off ter
the kitchen to cook sunthin fur me. It's jest
astonishin how good them girls wuz when I
said I wuz goin home; I declar ter goodness
there wuzn't a single thing they didn't do ter
help me off, and 1 wuz waited on so much that
I wuz almost off afore I knew it, and home a
hull week afore I wuz looked fur. 	
	I've sent to town fur a book, jest ter see
what fool things it does say, and maybe you'll
hear how ter make some more good things
someday, fur them cookies they made there
wusn't much to em, though they wusn't bad
after all.


