MRS. E. B. WELLS:

	DEAR SISTER:—Letters are the links that
bind us to our old homes, friends and associa-
tions; the Carrier doves bearing the messages
from heart to heart. Would it not be terrible
if we could not write to our absent ones, and
yet how many fail to improve this great privi-
lege. I have a few spare moments so will send
a few lines of remembrance to my friends afar,
who have not forgotton me:
	We have moved our "camp" again (it seems
to me that all Israel is on the "tented field"
just now), this only makes nine times that I
have changed my abiding place since I came
here. We take some comfort in the thought
that we cannot be numbered among those who
are “at ease in Zion,” and hope we may escape
the judgments pronounced in the Bible upon
that people.
	We are located at present near a very large
ruin, one of those monuments of a departed
race, that are to be found everywhere in this
land. Several skeletons. have been dug up on
it near the top, and but little work has been
done on it as yet. This place is improving
slowly, but I think steadily; it takes hard work,


time, patience and perseverance, with the bless-
ing of God, to redeem the waste places of Zion
and make the desert blossom as the rose.” 
	I have taken much pleasure in the Associa-
tions of the Young Ladies and Primaries; feel
quite proud of the children; as a rule they are
ready and willing to respond to every call
made upon them, and always accomplish what
they undertake. They had a very pleasant en-
tertainment on the 2nd of this month, the pro-
ceeds to be used towards building a house to
meet in; for notwithstanding the mighty en-
deavors of our enemies to the contrary, the cry
of Zion still goes on:
		"Give us room, that we may dwell."
	Short speeches and short letters are generally
most appreciated, so I will close this for the
present, with love and best wishes to all.
                                     Sincerely,
                                                                S. E. R.


