DEAR AUNT EM:
	No doubt all your readers are fond of shells,
coral, moss and seaweed, the love of things 
pretty and beautiful being an inheritance from 
our divine father and mother.
	There are not many varieties of shells here;
one kind, common in some parts of America,
is the periwinkle, being found in plenty on our
beach, it one only knows how to look for them.
There are also a few kinds of graceful oblong 
cream and brown shells, of which I do not
know the names, found over on the “Island”
and at a beach between here and Kokuku,
about four miles from here in fact.
	One shell hunt, down near our bath house,
is framed in rosy tender colors, and hangs in
sad memory’s halls with the few happy scenes
which have brightened my life here.
	My dear friend, J. L., and her sister, M. J.
D., and myself started out one lovely golden
afternoon; accompanied by Lule, Jay, Karl,
Ina and Helen, with babies Joseph & Wesley,
our blessed little tribe of children, and down 
through the green pasture, over the rock fence
near Kekouoha’s, then over the grassy road,
hills and hollows, through the sand, and here 
we came to the boathouse and bathhouse, very
primitive structures both, but good enough for 
the purposes for which they were made. The 
children are undressed, and a calico apron
makes their bathing suit: Off they go, catch-
ing huge sand-spiders or crabs, digging in the
sand, picking up bits of sea playthings, running
after the circling, silver-lipped waves as they
ripple and patter up and down with the sandy beach,
and calling and screaming with wild childish
laughter at their romp and play. 
	Our bathing suits are soon donned, M. J.
refusing to share in the sport, preferring to
sit on the beach and watch the babies. Away
we run, decorously and slowly, till we, too, are
in the enfolding fingers of the pretty wavelets
at our feet. 
	It is not beautiful, ever new, always strange,
this glorious wonder of sea, earth and sky?
The irregular line of shore, now pushing bold-
ly out into the blue domain of the sea, anon
retreating into tiny bays; the green hills and 
pastures come fairly down to meet and greet

[Column 2]
the higher waves that splash and roar over the
verdant mead, leaving in its tangles rare treas-
ures of shell and moss, as it in compliment to
the welcome visitor.
	Behind us stretch away and up the panorama
of cottages, white and brown, in their grassy
setting of green grass, there being one lack,
the lack of the foliage of trees and vines to
beautify the little homes scattered about; owing 
to the salt trade wind, which is still too cool
and refreshing to lose, the distant sombre 
mountains making a background worthy the
picture.
	The sea, brilliant and restless, its waves al-
ways, always coming to you in playful greeting,
or in wild menace, the brown rocks and islands,
out in the depths, washed and caressed by the
same restless waters; and over all, the familiar
wonder of turquoise and pearl, the radiant arch
softened and mellowed by the glorious rays of
the day god.
	We have sighed with the fulness and power
of the beauty around us, and at last come down
to every day life and our shell hunt.
	I just wish you could see us in our red bath-
ing suits, quite unromantic generally, out in 
the breakers, or right where the waves first
break, down on our knees, scrabbling and
scratching, rolling and plunging, sand in our
hair, shells in our mouths, and attempting
wildly to keep our foothold or kneehold, in
the yielding sand.
	You get fascinated with the sport. You see,
the shells are just below the surface of the sand,
and you have to scrape and feel along the sand
with your hands and feet, and as you feel a 
sharp point, pick it up and put it into your
mouth. This sounds very easy to tell it, but
when I add that the frolicsome, mischievous
waves are rolling and shifting the sand every
instant, for you are right where it beats first on
the shore, and, that the blow of the wave,
small though it is, as it breaks (and they do
every second moment in all kinds of weather),
dashes you this way and that, sometimes roll-
ing you over in the sandy water, and filling 
nose, ears and mouth with a clever mixture of
salt, sand and water, after you hear all this,
you will know it isn't so easy as it sounds.
	You can often gather a hundred of the shells
in in afternoon; but you must remember that
so large a number but makes a tiny pile of
shells, they are so small and take up so little
room; indeed I think I could hold fifty or sixty
in my double hands. 
	After we have collected all J. wishes to get 
that day, we go out into deeper waters and take
a swim, for we can really swim, and we conse-
quently float and manoeuver about for another
hour, and then go reluctantly to change our
clothes, and go back to Laui Kuli, our walk
spiced with happy talk and chatter, the child-
ren keeping up a running accompaniment with
both legs and tongues. Oh, happy day, oh,
happy past! to take this picture down, and as I
brush the dust away to explain its beauties to
you, my heart aches with bitter, unavailing
pain, and the tears in my throat are like to
choke me! I am the brown wave dashed rock,
old with sorrow, young in joy, yet trying, oh,
so hard; Aunt Em, to look into the light and
lovliness above me, knowing that somewhere
there, the absent are making ready for me. 
