ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH.

Would that my muse might fitting numbers wake,
Mem’ry sweet echoes for a loved one’s sake;
But, oh! too feeble  and too sad my voice,
Her's spoke but to make music and rejoice—
Supreme o'er sorrow and life's varied wrongs,
Her soul learned lessons that she wrought in songs,
And taught her sisters how, through griefs and pains,
The Father made all their trials end in gains.	
Like one born to the purple and its state,
Pomp, did not thrill, nor praise her soul elate, 
But, calm and watchful, as with sovereign care,
In other’s sorrows her spirit' came to share.
Beside a Prophet, yes, beside a king,
She well might stand and bards her praises sing. 
Yet if her soul a foretaste ever knew
Of future grandeur, glorious to view,
Her lips ne'er spoke the secret in their pride
For love to welcome, or the base deride; 
Nay, all her treasury of hope and faith she kept
Within her woman’s heart, where sorrows gently slept,
Covered them with rev’rent care, and then went forth to
	seek
Less blessed than she with fortitude—the sorrowful and
	weak.
Those have the sweetest voices who’ve most of sorrow
	known,
So her’s bore balm to wounded hearts e'en by its simplest
	tone,		
And thousands live to bless her voice, yet none have ever
	heard
E’en in reproof, a tone unmeet for love’s and sorrow’s
	word.
Go, search the lines by mightier pens, her soul soared high
	as theirs,	
Yet her humility was sweet as childrens' at their prayers.
And well might pride and luxury their arrant faces hide,
She wore the fabrics that she wrought, their rich array
	beside,
Nor costly gifts, nor radiant gems her queenly form might
	deck,
Their passing worth and soulless light her spirit’s joy would
	check;
She waited for those richer gems, celestial beings win,
Who've overcome the tests of earth and tasted not of sin,
I do not miss her loving smile, it lingers in me yet,
And mem’ry of her tender voice this heart can ne’er forget,
So many, many were the years its music breathed to me—
I close my eyes and hear again, as last beside her knee
She gave me kiss and blessing, her parting farewell gift;
A holy spell was in the room, and seemed almost to lift
The veil that wraps this earthly sense from dull and real
	things,
And almost severs link by link the ties by which it clings.
It did not seem like death, although the scene was new and
	strange,
A sacred calm was over all, sweet as the blessed change.
The emblems that she would have praised, bloomed like a
	smile through tears,	 
And loving words from noble hearts, that loved her all her
	years.
And she like one who lay asleep conscious of guardian
	care—
Not as though death, but bliss, had loosed the spirit hover-
	ing there.

Missed?  Yes, we miss her as though none had thought the
	time could come
Those queenly eyes could lose their light, that voice could
	e’er be dumb,
I think we all with reverent faith believed she would be
	here
When Zion’s flag should proudly fly o’er all our vales so
	dear,

[column 2]
When hymns of glad and glorious praise proclaim us blest
	and free,
In peace and union saved at last from error’s tyranny.
Sweet be her sleep and sweet her joy, when waking she
	shall see
The lessons sown in earthly paths bloom in eternity.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
South Bountiful, Dec. 21, 1887.


[Column 1]
