A CHRISTMAS FLOWER.

	It was Christmas Eve, and the city was all
astir.  The busy throng, with arms heavily
laden, were passing to and fro; gay greetings
were heard from every side, mingled, occasion-
ally, with the piteous cry of the beggar, or the
entreaty of the street wender.  From the win-
dows of shops and dwellings the lights shone
until a late hour.  The bright laugh, the merry
voice, the tramp of feet, the jingling bells, the
rolling wheels, the sounds of music, the occa-
sional whistle from the boats flying along the
river, all mingled in a dreamy, muffled sound,
like the approach of a huge army towards the
city.  It was the heralding of Santa Claus
with his hosts of assistants, about to beseige
the homes all over the Christian world, and for
one day, at least, overturn and upset all the
domestic arrangements.
	This eventful night was to be celebrated, at
least at one fashionable house, by a grand ball,
the day being the anniversary, as well as
Christmas, of the birth of the fair daughter of
this home.  And fair she was; almost without
an equal.  Perfect in form and feature, the
embodiment of grace and womanliness, and
with all, a disposition and nature so spirituelle,
humble and irresistible, that she alike charmed
and delighted all who met her; to see her once
but led to the desire to know her, and to know
was to love, almost adore her.
	She stood, to-night, in front of a table strewn
with flowers, delicately and tastily arranged, in
a quandary which to wear, all were so beautiful.
	“I am sure,” said her fond mother, “as your
dress is so simple and plain, that this bouquet
of various colored roses (lifting the flowers sent
by the suitor she most favored) would become
you most.”
	“I think these gerainums lovelier than any-
thing on white; do wear them, Alice,” said her
sister.
	“It would be better not to offend anyone to-
night and as I cannot wear them all, I prefer
only this white camelia, which my little invalid
friend sent me this morning; surely no one
could take offense at that; and let all these
flowers be arranged on the table near my stand-
ing place for to-night, and to-morrow they shall
be sent to brighten the dreary rooms of the
poor.”
	She did not yield, notwithstanding her
mother’s entreaties, but in her pretty white
costume, with the one camelia for ornament,
all the lovelier for her plainness, entered the
brilliantly decorated ball room.  In the sweetest
manner and gentlest way she received the many
friends who had assembled to greet her, and,
favoring no one especially, but all heartily,
passed pleasantly away the hours.  She loved
society dearly, still could not help but grieve
to see so much display of wealth for the mere
pleasure of an hour.  She announced to her
lady friends her intention of sending her flow-
ers to the sick and poor for Christmas cheering,
and they all were charmed with the idea, and
stripped their robes of the beautiful, costly

[Column 2]
ornaments and laid them on the different tables.
Alice felt very joyful with the thought that
her party had really reverted into a charity
ball, and might be the means of gladdening a
few lonely hearts.  The tables were heaped
with garlands and bouquets of most exquisite
flowers, and Alice was told to distribute them
as she chose.
	In every heart, however proud, is a kindly
chord, which yields to a delicate touch at
Christmas time, if only a player can be found
who understands the instrument, and Alice un-
derstood exactly the human heart; she had
made it her study, and could cause it to yield
tears and laughter, joy and sympathy with the
easiest, lightest words.  She had a faculty for
rendering people happy, and felt to-night that
she had caused her wealthy friends as great
joy by taking from them, as on the morrow she
would cause her poorer ones by giving to
them.
	The morning came, bright and cold.  Alice
started early on her rounds from house to house,
bestowing her gifts, her sweet smiles and
pleasant words on her needy friends.  What a
sweet, gracious Santa Claus she was!  No won-
der the people loved her.  At last she had
finished, all but one place, the home of her poor
little boy who had sent the camelia.  As she
reached the door she wondered how he came
by such a beautiful flower, for surely he had
none such among his pretty collection of window
plants.
	She found her little friend (for such she al-
ways called him), bolstered up in a chair, and
looking brighter and better than he ever had
before since she had known him.  Always for
many years he had been compelled to lie on his
bed, or in the large rolling chair, in which,
sometimes on a fair day, his widowed mother
would take him out.  It was on one of these
occasions that Alice first saw them, and was so
moved to pity by the languid appeal of his
large brown eyes, and the tired look of his
mother, that she ventured to address them, and
found out their condition; their name was
Warner, and they lived not far away in a poor,
but tidy row of tenement houses, and had no
means of support but the earnings of the
mother, who went out sewing, and so had to
leave her boy alone the whole day long, while
she toiled for their bread.
	“And how came your boy to be so sick?”
said Alice.
	“He fell over a little stool when only two
years old, and hurt his hip; at first, when his
father was alive, we had a doctor for him, and
believed he might be cured, but his father died,
and I had no means with which to retain the
physician, and he has grown up weak and help-
less, as you see; sometimes better, sometimes
worse, and in such pain that I could almost
pray to have him die; but then my loneliness
comes over me and I feel as though he must
live, and some day, perhaps, the Lord will help
me, so that he may be healed.”
	And this was their story, which so moved
Alice that she then and there pronounced her-
self their friend, and aided them in many ways,
by obtaining work for the mother, and helping
the little invalid to learn to read and write and
cut out pretty papers, for which she found a
sale, and thus he became a help to his mother,
and felt less the weight of his dependence.
     On this Christmas morning a great change
seemed to pervade the house; the boy was so
bright and cheerful, and the mother sang as


she carefully prepared the dinner.  Alice never
remembered seeing her so before, for she was
always repining and recalling the days “when
things went better, and she didn't have to work
so hard.” They seemed more pleased than
ever to see her this morning, not so much for
what she had brought them, but for the won-
derful news they had for her.  After the con-
fused and loud greeting, from which she was
able to comprehend nothing, Alice inquired
from Henry the meaning of it all, and how he
came to be sitting so upright, and what had
really happened; had they had a fortune left
them, or what?
	“No, dear Miss Alice,” replied the boy, “not
a fortune left us, but something brought to us
which we believe to be far greater and better.”
And then he explained how a young man had
knocked at their door yesterday, and asked if
he might come in and warm himself. “We
were much surprised to see a strong, handsome
fellow, quite well dressed, asking for shelter as
though he were poor.”
	“Perhaps,” said Alice, “he was worse than
poor; maybe he is wicked and robs the poor of 
what little savings they possess.”
	“Oh, no!” said Henry. “If only you could
hear him and see what he can do; he says he is
not poor, but has a beautiful home and kind
relatives and friends in a far distant land, but
that he has been sent out in the world, like
many other of his friends, to proclaim glad
tidings, that he brings news that the Gospel of
Christ has been restored, and to entreat the
people to repent, to have faith and believe, to
turn from the world and gather to this beauti-
ful land where he lives—the land of Zion, he
calls it.”
	“He must be an impostor,” said Alice, “oh,
don’t have him here, he will ruin you both, I
am sure.”
	“You would not think like that if you could 
but see how humble and good he is, “besides ”
answered the boy, with a hot blush mounting
his lace, “do you not see that he has almost
made me well? and he tells us that he thinks I
can be healed; that he knows of many instances
where his friends have caused as great afflic-
tions as mine to be instantly cured.  And, then, 
why would he leave a pleasant home and travel
on foot in a strange land, without means, even
as the Savior and His disciples did, if he were
not good and”—but here he stopped speaking,
for, raising his eyes, he saw an offended look on
his fair listener’s face, and thought, perhaps, 
he had spoken too hastily and sharply, and it
grieved him to think he had wounded one who
was always so kind to him; but Alice never
bore resentment, and thought best to turn the
subject, for she had little doubt still in her own 
mind but that her friends had been taken in,
so to speak, and she brightly asked Henry,
“Where did you obtain that beautiful flower
you sent me yesterday?  Do you know it was
the only ornament I wore last night, and that
I have it still in my room looking as fresh as
ever."
	The boy blushed again, for he did not wish
to tell her that the very young man whom she
thought so poorly of had purchased it for him
to send, but his mother, only too eager to tell
anything in his favor, quickly replied:
	“Why, Miss Alice, our new friend, hearing
Henry raving about you, as he always is, and
almost crying because he had no birthday gift
for you, kindly offered to get him something,
and suggested a pure white flower, which he
most beautifully said, if you were the being
Henry declared you to be, would be a fitting
present, and you would, doubtless, have too
many fancy presents to please you anyhow.”
	This was almost too much for Alice, and she
rose and coolly left them, for she was hurt and 
grieved to think she had worn the flower from
a perfect stranger—doubtless some vagabond—
with such perfect ease, despite her mother’s and
sister’s entreaties.  She had not gone far before
her heart relented to the sick child, though
with the mother she had no patience, and she
turned back to say a few kind words and let
her boy see she bore him no ill feeling.  Her
surprise was very great, as she re-entered the
room, to see a tall, handsome young man sitting
holding, quite tenderly, Henry’s poor thin 
hands, and she stood for a moment as though
riveted to the spot.  Surely, thought she, this
is strange; he does not look as though he needed
anything, and that frank, kind look in his face
does not speak deceit.  She apologized for com-
ing back, and was about to leave again, when
the young stranger gently requested that she
remain a moment, and to her own wonder, for
under other circumstances such a request from
a stranger, in her friend’s house, would have
seemed a mark of insolence, she seated herself
and awaited his pleasure.  He soon told her
that her little friend had made him acquainted
with the occurrences of the morning, and he
was greatly pained that he should have been
the means of bringing discord or ill feeling
where such love existed, and she need not be
offended about the flower, as it was Henry’s
gift, and he only performed the part of errand
boy in purchasing it, as Henry was unable to
go out himself; doubtless her other flowers,
pointing to the ones she had left for Henry,
were purchased in a similar way, messengers
taking the orders to the florists.  How gently
and sweetly he spoke, and yet how firmly; no
wonder, thought Alice, that these poor people
are elated; then they speak of restoring Henry’s
health, I forgot to ask about that, perhaps he
is a physician; I will inquire:
	“How is it that my young friend has so far
recovered, are you a doctor?”
	“No,” replied the stranger, “not of medicine,
but I try to carry with me enough faith to effect
some cures, and touch the souls of a few honest
people.” He then explained his mission, as we
have heard Henry tell before, only more ex-
plicitly and described the power of healing by
anointing with oil and prayer. “But I detain
you,” said he at length, “and your Christmas
will be passed from home; my friends here have
kindly offered me a Christmas dinner, after
which I must renew my journey, for I have an
appointment to-morrow many miles from here,
and must get an early start, or shall not be 
able to reach there.”
	“And do you really travel all the time on
foot? and where will you stay to-night”
	“Wherever night overtakes me, and we walk
most of the time, as in that way we can bear a
testimony and give a warning to all we meet,
that is, all who will listen.”
	“And when will you return here again?”
	“Next week. I hope to re-visit my friends
here, and find them prepared to receive further
instructions, perhaps baptism.”
	Alice surprised herself by the way she had
lingered, but now, feeling oh, far happier than
when she left before, again bade them and her
new acquaintance goodbye.
	She did not reveal what had happened to her
parents, for she knew them to be so worldly, and
she dreaded their sneers.  Already they thought
her too philanthropic, and, as they termed it,
sanctimonious; and besides, she remembered her
own incredulity, and how offended she became
with her poor friends for believing in this
stranger, and now she herself was just as firmly
convinced of his sincerity and truth as they
had been; she scarcely dared allow herself to
think of the impression he had made and the
words he had said, but her soul was full of de-
light, and her lovely eyes bespoke the bright
thoughts that possessed her.
	That night she laid, among some other treas-
ures, that beautiful white flower, and smilingly 
repeated to herself, "A pure white flower
would be a most fitting gift for such a one.”
Alice spent most of the time the following week

[Column 3]

with her poor friends, reading the books the
stranger had left them and talking the subject
over with them.  At last the week had ended,
and all three, fully convinced of the teachings
they had read, anxiously awaited the stranger’s
return.  A day, almost another week passed,
and still he did not come, and Alice began first
to wonder, then doubt, and then, as in her
dreams, the kind, gentle face appeared before
her, and she began to fear that some evil had
befallen him.  At length he came, but how
changed; her fears were realized.  The night he
left them he had failed to procure a resting
place, and many doors had been fastened
against him; all that long, cold night he walked,
and the exposure had given him such a cold
that he had not been able to return before.
Perhaps it was just as well, he said, for pity
had opened another door for him, and in another
home had he found honest hearts awaiting the
message he had to bring.
	It is needless here to relate his great joy and
satisfaction when he learned the effect his
teachings and books had had upon them, but
he accepted his good fortune in a grave and 
reverent manner, and the first thing he did
was to offer praise and thanksgiving to the
Lord for his success.  With Alice he was very
grave indeed, and pointed out her great risk
in adopting a faith contrary to her parents’
wishes; she ought, at least, to let them have the
same privilege as she had herself; they could
do no more than refuse to believe, as many
others had done.  Alice knew this was right,
and she liked him all the more for his frank
advice; she had feared to tell her parents, feel-
ing that they would ridicule her new friend
and perhaps deny her the privilege of seeing
him again, but now she would tell them all.
It had caused her considerable pain to think
that she had deceived them in anything.  That
night she waited long for an opportunity to
speak with them alone, but the evening wore
away without an opportunity, and at last, al-
most in tears, Alice retired to her chamber,
followed by her sister, who had noticed her
anxiety, and into her ears Alice poured the
whole story.
	“’Tis not the religion, Alice, that exercises
you so,” her sister replied, “your heart is
touched, you are in love, and are willing to
believe anything that man tells you, even if he
told you black was white. That’s what your 
philanthropy has led you into; I always thought
you were going too far, and told mamma as
much.”
	Poor Alice, what could she say?  She did not
believe she was in love, still she knew her new
friend held a certain influence over her, which
she could not define, and rebel as she might
against her sister’s injustice, she knew she
would have the same to meet from father and
mother.  That night she offered up a piteous
prayer, for she saw that in her happy, comfort-
able home a storm was rising, and she believed
herself to be the fault, yet she also knew that
something more had entered her life, something 
that, even for them, she could not resign.  In
the morning she sent a note, asking Mrs. War-
ner to conduct her new friend to her home and
she would introduce him to her parents.  They
came, and he spoke with them, but, alas! with
what results.  The mother wept and wailed, and
declared the fellow had tried to lead her beauti-
ful child astray, and he and his friends, as he
called them, were breaking up peaceful homes
and scattering distress wherever they went.
The father turned them out, and in a very
fierce manner, threatened to punish him severely
if ever again he heard of him interfering with
his family.
	Alice ceased visiting with her poor friends,
and tried to be reconciled to her home, but in
vain, and when, at the end of a month, her
little boy Henry (he could walk now), brought
her a note, she was overjoyed.  It was very


brief, written only to say that the missionaries
would occasionally visit near, and at certain
periods performed baptisms, and if her con-
science told her to accept the Gospel that she
might confer with them through the Warners,
who were now fully convinced, and had a great
testimony in the healing of Henry, which
would be a testimony unto her as well. Then
Henry told her how he had been anointed and
prayed for, and had improved, but was unable
to walk, and the missionary himself carried
him into the stream of water, where he was
baptized, and that immediately after that or-
dinance he had walked out of the stream and
had had no trouble ever since; “And as soon as
we can we are going to leave this place and
gather to Zion.”
	Her life at home seemed empty now, and she
resolved to explain all to her parents. She
had tried to forget her new faith and be the
same as usual, all to no use, and they must let
her choose for herself. She announced her de-
termination to her father, and strove to explain
how hard the struggle was to give up either
faith or home, and she begged him, as no child
ever plead before, to be lenient, and consider
her position, not to judge harshly, but to let
her love them and have their love the same as
ever, nay, she knew that now she loved them
more. Her pleadings and tears were alike
unavailing, and she had her choice, either to
give up her religion or her home. If she clung
to the first, he would have no more of her, and
she might go to her new found friends, she was
no daughter of his. She bowed to his will,
and left her home, not without great sorrow,
for she recalled her happy childhood and girl-
hood, the fond indulgence of her parents, and
as she placed together the few necessary arti-
cles she was to take with her, her heart ached
and bitter tears poured down her cheeks. Her
sister and mother were most scornful, for they
believed she would relent and return in a few
hours, and could not think her so sincere in
her belief as to leave such a home of luxury
for poverty, perhaps distress, but they little felt
the inducements the Gospel held, and could not
realize that worldly wealth faded into insignifi-
cence compared with the light and life which
had been revealed to her. Her father refused
to see her again, but her mother, tenderly re-
lenting, as she was about to leave, held her in
her arms and told her if ever she desired she
should come back to them; she gave her, also,
what ready money she had, and offered every
inducement if only she would remain and yield
to their wishes. This was a bitter trial to
Alice, but she knew sacrifices had to be made,
and that she could never feel the same again
if she remained at home, for she could not give
up a religion which held so much for her. She
kissed her mother and thanked her, and asked
for her blessing, and “whereever I am, dearest
mother, I shall always think of thee and this
last hour, and may your hearts be softened,
that you will receive me home again.” With
these words they parted, and the poor girl
heard her father’s door close behind her never
to be re-opened. How lonely it seemed, how
dreary in the street; twice she turned, as though
to retrace her steps, and each time something
whispered, “Do not turn back; the way looks
dark, but it will brighten as you proceed.” At
length she reached Mrs. Warner’s humble home
and told them her story. They were only too
glad to be able to do something for one who had
helped and befriended them so long.
	That night, towards midnight, when all was
hushed and still, with only the stars to light
them, and only the angels to guide them, a
small party wended their way to the river banks.
A beautiful prayer was there offered, and then
Alice’s stranger-friend, with head uncovered,
walked into the midst of the stream, a com-
anion of his followed, leading a young man
by the hand; they blessed and immersed him,

[Column 2]
even as it was done in the Savior’s time, and
then Alice herself was led forth and received
the same ordinance. She walked from the
water with hope revived, regrets all banished;
she had entered a new life, and her soul was
filled with most ecstatic joy.
	’Tis many years now since that sweet and
sacred night, and Alice has found her a new
home in a new land. She left old England
shortly after her baptism, and came a stranger
to Zion, but kind hearts were ready to receive
her. She never had many regrets, for, after
informing her friends of her baptism, they re-
fused to see her again; only her sister saw her
the night before she sailed.
	Two years after her arrival she became the
wife of the dear friend who had first brought
her the Gospel, and who declared he loved
her and felt as though she would be his the
first moment his eyes rested upon her.
	“Why, then,” replied she, “did you never tell
me before I came away?”
	“Can you not see, Alice, if I had brought
my own feelings before you, that your parents’
claim would have been verified, and you might
have believed me an impostor, claiming a new
faith to help me to win you? No; it was my
mission to teach the Gospel, and your gentle
yet firm way of receiving it afforded me great
happiness, and proved you to be free from
vanity and worldliness.”
	’Twas Christmas Eve, and all was quiet in
Alice’s home; the members of the household
walked with cautious step and spoke in an un-
dertone, for in one chamber of the house lay
our sweet Alice, with a tiny babe nestling in
her arms. She brightly returned her husband’s
smile. and whispered,
	“We will call our little one Camelia, our
Christmas Flower. It was that flower which
first led me to the Gospel, and to you, and per-
haps this little flower may be the means of
leading my family to us.”
	And she was, not all of them, for; the Christ-
mas which brought the little flower to earth,
took to another world Alice’s mother. After
this bereavement the father's heart softened,
and as the baby fingers first began to write,
and sent for grandpa to come, he obeyed, and,
with his remaining daughter, who always had
believed Alice to be right, but had not the
force to follow her, sought a refuge in the home
of the daughter he had so cruelly driven forth;
but he atoned to the little one for it all, and
“Grandpa’s pet is the purest, fairest little
flower a Christmas ever brought.”
	Annie K. Cannon ANNIE


