[Vol28 | May 1941 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Presidents Report and Lyman]
Officers Meeting President's Report and Official Instructions Amy Brown Lyman, General President N behalf of the General Board, I welcome you here today to this most important meeting—the general officers' meeting. One of the joys of our general conferences is to meet thus intimately with you— the key women of our organization who bear so much responsibility in connection with the work. We feel as Paul did when in his epistle to the Romans he spoke of his desire to be with them that they might all be comforted and lifted up together by their mutual faith. The object of our semi-annual conferences, as you know, is to give inspiration, direction and unity to our work and to renew our devotion to it. May this object be fulfilled. We are indeed grateful to you for your efficient and unselfish service. I am sure the General Authorities appreciate your activity in, and support of, the Church welfare program. We wonder sometimes how you accomplish so much. We know we can depend upon you at all times. You have our confidence and love, our faith and prayers, and we ask you humbly for your faith and your prayers in our behalf. We appreciate the splendid and oftentimes streriuous work of our ward presidents and the work of the other ward officers and special workers, all of whom you are directing so ably. We appreciate the work of our class leaders, both stake and local, who are so diligently building up our educational departments, in many instances the work approaching the professional. We take great pride in the work 292 of our visiting teachers. We feel that they are performing their work with dignity, and that they are confining their discussion in the home to subjects which have been outlined for them, and which are in harmony with the spirit of Relief Society and the spirit of the Gospel. We are pleased to note that the teachers' messages this year are bearing fruit in that they are stimulating attendance at Priesthood meetings. What a fine thing it is that our women are gaining a better understanding of the work and duties of the Priesthood, and that they are showing a willingness to support, encourage, and sustain their husbands and sons in this work.  
Organizations and Reorganizations Since our last conference, twelve stakes and two missions have been reorganized, and five new stakes have been organized (listed below), bringing the total stakes in the Church to 137. We appreciate the splendid work done by these retiring officers, and plead for their continued interest and support in their home wards. We welcome the new officers and wish them every success in their new undertakings. A stake president, recently released, has written us, "I am enjoying a much needed rest and receiving a great deal of joy and comfort attending my ward Relief ORGANIZATIONS Stake *# ormerly Part of R*, Cottonwood Cottonwood Stake Appointed President Lucile B. Madsen Ethelyn D. States Mary M. Christiansen Gladys E. Huish Dorothy Ronnow REORGANIZATIONS Keno California Mission San Diego California Mission Southern Arizona California Mission Uvada Moapa and St. George Stakes Stake or Mission Released Stakes Alpine Maud D. Christensen Ensign Radie O. Hyde Grant Lois D. Cannon Gunnison Ila, D. Childs Inglewood Jennie Cluff Moapa LaPriel S. Bunker Nampa Minnie L. Rose Nevada Anna M. Aljets Pasadena Lena E. Woodbury Phoenix Elnora D. Shupe South Los Angeles Blanche S. Hoglund Teton L. Emma Cordon Missions Australian Della M. Judd California _ Nelle L. Macdonald Appointed President Fern A. Walker Lucena R. Card Martha W. Brown Orlene L. Henrie Josephine Prestwick Mae L. Larsen LaVera Aston Nellie C. Brunson Irene Ethel Boice Mabel D. Mortensen ' Hazel Neville Sadie H. Harris June C. Orme Minnie B. Blood Date December 23, 1940
February 9, 1941
February 9, 1941
March 2, 1941
January 12, 1941
Date January 19, 1941
January 31, 1941
March 16, 1941
January 26, 1941
January 8, 1941
January 5, 1941
February 23, 1941
November 10, 1940
March 28, 1941
November 16, 1940
October 27, 1940
September 29, 1940
February 27, 1941
February 10, 1941 RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Society meetings. I was very happy when my ward president asked me to be a visiting teacher." Summer Period Our educational year, which has been very successful, draws to a close at the end of May.
