[Vol28 | May 1941 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Elder Lee]

Anon love's warmth and sunlight filter through And lo! Life's greatest miracle—a soul in bloom! 'Elder Harold B. Lee Henry A. Smith Member of the Deseret News Editorial Staff ELDER HAROLD BINGHAM LEE, 42-year-old managing director of the Church welfare program, was sustained a member of the seemed mature beyond his years; who has always manifested a remarkably simple, yet deep and abiding faith in the Gospel of Jesus Christ; ELDER HAROLD B, LEE Council of the Twelve Apostles at the general conference, April 6, 1941, to fill the vacancy occasioned by the death of Elder Reed Smoot. Elder Lee is a man who has always who has never sought personal aggrandizement and yet one who in the space of a few short years has arisen to positions of prominence because of marked ability, diligent effort and Page 349 350 a willingness to sacrifice private desires in humble submission to the wishes of those who stand in authority.
Many other things might be said of this man, glowing word tributes paid him by those more skilled in use of the pen, but to the Relief Society members of the Church he is most welcomed into this high Church council because of his humanitarianism and his profound, loving interest in the individuals of the Church. In the space of five short years, he has endeared himself not only to the Priesthood of the Church, but to the women as well, for his wise and efficient direction of the Church welfare program in which the Relief Society plays such a vital role. Elder Lee's contributions to the Church have been many, and as he has served the great welfare organization he has also served the Relief Society.
Perhaps few of the General Authorities, prior to their appointment to present positions, have had such direct contact with this organization as has the new Apostle. As he has visited about among the stakes and wards in the interest of the welfare program, much of his work has been with the Relief Societies, to whom he has often given credit for carrying a great deal of the burden of the fast-growing program. ° On more than one occasion Elder Lee has attributed to the women of the Church the greatest proportion of accomplishments in welfare work.
From the inception of this program, Elder Lee has envisioned the proper place in it of the Relief Society as aides to the Priesthood in doing good works and "looking after the poor."
Typical of his thinking along this line in the early days of  program is an excerpt from the March, 1937, issue of the Magazine: After quoting the words of Joseph Smith, the Prophet, made at the organization meeting of the Relief Society in Nauvoo, on March 17, 1842, Elder Lee said: "In this plain and direct statement of ' the Prophet Joseph Smith, the relationship of the Relief Society organization to the Priesthood quorums is clearly defined. It is the direct responsibility of each Priesthood quorum to look after its own members; and the Relief Society organization is an auxiliary to the Priesthood, or as the Prophet Joseph stated, they are 'to provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor' and to 'search out objects of charity' and relieve distress...." | THs new Church leader enters upon his duties with an understanding of the problems of the Church gained from first-hand knowledge. He has been in the kitchens and welfare centers of the Relief Societies in all parts of the Church; he has stood in the fields and factories of the Priesthood quotums; he has gone into the timber lands and coal mines of the welfare program; he has shared in the problems ds well as gloried in the accomplishments of the thousands of men and women who are engaged in this program. Elder Lee acquired his background for the great welfare program and its many problems when as a 31-yearold stake president he had these same problems to solve for his own people. He became president of the Pioneer Stake in 1929, at the start of the depression years. The members of his stake were in the vast majority dependent upon the mines, mills, smelters, railroads, and industries for their livelihood, and he soon found ELDER HAROLD B. LEE himself face to face with a fast-growing and almost insurmountable problem.
With his associates he set about perfecting a program to provide opportunity for self-help and independence on the part of those in need of assistance. Out of this simple step, which grew from year to year as the needs advanced, Elder Lee gained first hand experience for a greater mission, which became his when he resigned from his stake presidency and gave up a promising political future as a member of the Salt Lake City Commission, to devote full time to launching and directing the Church welfare program. The other Church experiences of this new Apostle consist of service in Pioneer Stake as stake superintendent of Religion Classes and Sunday Schools, and one year as a counselor in the stake presidency. He also filled a mission in the Western States Mission. Flder Lee was born in Clifton, Idaho, March 28, 1899, a son of Samuel M. And Louisa Bingham Lee. His early education was received in Idaho, and after his return from the mission field he attended the University of Utah. He taught 351 school in Idaho prior to his mission and afterward served five years as a principal in two schools of the Granite district in Salt Lake County. Elder Lee is a loving husband and the father of two fine daughters, Maurine, 16, and Helen, 15. The new Apostle has a friendly and likeable personality. He is a pleasant traveling companion and an intelligent conversationalist. He has few if any hobbies besides his family and his work, though he likes the out-of-doors and can often be found in the early hours of the morning at work in the gardens about his modest home. In his early manhood in Idaho, Elder Lee was a member of an orchestra, and now, ofttimes, he will be found at the keys of the piano. In many of the meetings out in the stakes when launching the great welfare program, it was interesting to find Elder Melvin J.
Ballard leading the singing and Elder Lee at the piano.
Those who are privileged to know Elder Lee intimately, have the reward of a loyal friendship and close association with a man whose humbleness and spirituality are a source of inspiration. 7 icadtiedte) to dite. Clavelec Appointed 'l' the morning sessions of the general conference of the Church, April 6, 1941, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., announced the appointment of five assistants to the Twelve Apostles: Marion G. Romney, president of Bonneville Stake; Thomas E. McKay, former president of Ogden Stake and acting president of the European Mission; Clifford E. Young, president of the Alpine Stake; Alma Sonne, president of Cache Stake; and Nicholas G. Smith, president of Northwestern States Mission. In announcing the appointment of these brethren, President Clark stated that the rapid growth of the Church in recent times, the constantly increasing establishment of new wards and stakes, the steadily pressing necessity for increasing the missions in numbers and efficiency, and the continual multi- (Continued on page 358)
plying of Church interests and activities, had built up an apostolic service of the greatest magnitude. Accordingly, the First Presidency and the Twelve felt that in order to adequately meet their responsibilities and carry on efficiently the service of the Lord they should have some help. The five men sustained for this service are all well qualified through years of devotion to the Church. Each has served his Church in the auxiliaries, Priesthood quorums, and missions. Each has held positions of trust and leadership. Their strength added to that of the other General Authorities should indeed be a factor in forwarding the work of the Lord.
OTARION HEARING AID
Not just another hearing aid but something new a