[Vol28 | May 1941 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Work Department]
The Work Department
Sewing Exhibits
Of special interest to sewing leaders, as well as to other Relief Society workers, were the exhibits representative of three types of sewing projects—remodeled used clothing, utilization of knit-goods remnants, and clothing made from new material in Relief Society work meetings. These exhibits were on display Wednesday afternoon and all day Thursday in Whitney Hall, where the sessions on Mormon Handicraft and the Relief Society work department were held. The exhibit of remodeled clothing was arranged by Adelia Busch, manager of women's department, Northern Utah Region of Church welfare program, who talked on conservation of clothing, and who distributed, upon request, hundreds of paper patterns of designs well adapted to the utilization of used clothing. Emma G. Phillips, president of Liberty Stake Relief Society, described not only the special project conducted by the Tenth Ward, where remnants of knit goods were converted into a variety of clothing, but exhibited many useful novelties work meetings in her stake. The representative array of clothing made from new materials was selected and arranged by Emma J. Barton, manager of women's department, Salt Lake Region of the Church welfare program, who told of the value to the Salt Lake Regional storehouse of the sewing service given during the 1940-41 season at the regular monthly ward sewing meetings of Relief Societies of the Salt Lake Region.
Relief Society At Work
(a) Conservation
Adelia Busch, manager of women's department, Northern Utah Region of the Church welfare program, emphasized the opportunity presented by the Relief Society work meeting for teaching and demonstrating the importance of consistent remodeling of clothing as a means of family economy. Many women who come to the welfare sewing center have never used a needle and know nothing about drafting or using patterns or cutting materials. She decried the general lack of information and skill on the part of mothers and homemakers in making the best use of the materials at hand, in using a needle, and in drafting or using patterns and cutting materials. Most women, however, are eager and willing to learn to help themselves if given the opportunity. At the Church welfare sewing center of the Northern Utah Region, one day a week is set aside as "opportunity day," when anyone is welcome to come for advice or to secure patterns to help them with their sewing in the home. Following is an example of the value of this service. One woman reported that she had six boys, but that only two of them could go to Church at the same time, as the family could afford to buy only one large jacket and one smaller one, and that the three larger boys and the three smaller ones were taking turns going to Sunday School. This mother was taught to make the required jackets from used coats which were made available to her, the only cost being 55 or 60 cents per jacket for the necessary elastic and zippers. The next week all six of her boys were in attendance at Sunday School. A little personal attention opens a new world of interest and activity for mothers. Stating that wasted clothing is extravagance, that the remodeling of clothing is not a sign of poverty, but of good judgment and economy, Mrs. Busch appealed to work leaders to make a valuable contribution to the general welfare and social adjustment of the people of the Church by converting them to the good sense and economy of remodeling and properly caring for the clothing they already have.
(b) Ingenuity
Emma G. Phillips, president of Liberty Stake Relief Society, described the experimental project in the use of remnants of knit goods which was conducted at work meetings during the 1940-41 season by the Tenth Ward Relief Society of this stake, at the suggestion of the General Board. Twenty-five women participated in this project, giving a total of 191 hours of sewing service. The total cost of the remnants, findings, and supplementary material was $14.17, from which a variety of 37 articles was made at an average cost per garment of 38 cents.
(c) Welfare
Emma J. Barton, manager of the women's department, Salt Lake Region of the Church welfare program, told of the value of and some of the problems involved in the sewing service given in the interest of the Church welfare program by the Relief Societies of the Region at the monthly sewing meeting during the 1940-41 season. This project was conducted as an experiment, under the direction of the General Board, and in cooperation with the Salt Lake Region. Now nearing successful completion, this project has demonstrated the effectiveness and values of this type of Relief Society cooperation with the Church welfare program, chief among which Mrs. Barton listed the three following factors: 1. The project has stimulated an awareness of the Church welfare program among hundreds of women, who, because of their fortunate financial conditions, are not otherwise brought into close contact with the welfare phase of Church work, and who have now had opportunity to labor with their hands to help provide for those less fortunate than themselves. 2. It has provided a uniform program for the monthly Relief Society work meeting which has been both instructive and productive. 3. By producing about 3,500 articles, such as percale dresses and aprons, and outing, broadcloth and crepe sleeping garments, the Relief Societies relieved the regional sewing center to such extent that it was able to devote more time to the production of overalls, corduroy pants, work shirts, etc., made in connection with a training project in the operation of commercial power machines. Many women and girls, after a six-month training course on these machines, are placed in private industry.
