[Vol28 | May 1941 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: The Primary Association Hinckley]
Our Sister Organizations Speak
The Primary Association Superintendent May Green Hinckley
I AM greatly complimented with the invitation to speak here this morning, and to cooperate in making the membership of the Relief Society one hundred thousand on its hundredth anniversary. My time is limited, so in five minutes I am going to give you five reasons for joining the Relief Society:
First, I want to be and ought to be a better woman than I am. There is not a woman in the Church who, in her finer moments, would not like to be a better woman, a better mother, a better example to her friends and family. This organization will help them; it will help me in many ways to be a better woman. It will direct me in my thinking, guide me in my actions, build up my faith, train my mind, school my feelings, inspire me with a love for others and for my Creator.
Second, the strong women in the organization need helping, reinforcing, and the weak ones in it need encouragement. I want to help the strong women who are struggling to carry forward the mission and purpose of this great organization. They will appreciate the help I can give. They need and deserve the help, and I ought to give it to them. By my example, I can help the weak members. By my words, I can encourage them. By my deeds, I can win their confidence, inspire them to do more and to do better. I can help the strong and encourage the weak. That is my second reason.
Third, I can do good through the organization. The Relief Society is a wonderful organization, with definite aims and objectives that appeal to me. Its work is organized and planned with the greatest care, and it is officered by select women; all working together, we can accomplish wonders. We can direct legislation, bring about reformations, help those who are in need, help in emergencies, provide in times of adversity. How feeble the efforts of a single woman would be! I want to join the Relief Society because of the good I can do through it.
Fourth, inspiration and stimulation come through association with good women who are engaged in a great cause. Where will I find a group of women better in all that those words imply? Who could mingle with the humblest group of Relief Society women without being inspired with their self-forgetfulness in their service to others, their willingness to give and go without? You will find among them the real heroines of service. The cause itself appeals to one, awakens in one's soul the noblest impulses and inspires all who have the love of humanity in their hearts with a desire to help, to do something. I need that stimulation and inspiration. Therefore, I should join the Relief Society.
Fifth, I believe in preserving the sanctity of the home and the integrity of the family. Therefore, I want to support all the influences, efforts, and organizations that build these and protect them. Perhaps the major contribution which this great organization makes is the influence which it fosters at the fireside; the
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
