[Vol28 | May 1941 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: The Young Womens Mutual Cannon]
288 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MAY,   1941 
SCHEDULE  OF  MEETINGS 
Meeting 
Officers'  Meeting 
Departments — 
Social  Welfare 
Relief  Society 
Magazine 
Mormon  Handicraft 
Work  Department 
Membership 
Centennial 
Music 
Secretary-Treasurers 
Reception 
Presidents'  Breakfast 
General  Session 
General  Session 
Time  and  Place 
Wednesday,  April  2,  1941 
Assembly  Hall,  10 :00  a.  m.-i  2:00  noon 
Chairman     Attendance 
President  Lyman       1,000 
Assembly  Hall,  2:00-2:50  p.  m.  Leona  B.  Fetzer 
Barratt  Hall,  2:00-2:50  p.  m. 
18th  Ward  Chapel,  2:00-2:30  p.  m. 
18th  Ward  Chapel,  2:30-3:45  p.  m. 
Assembly  Hall,  3:30-4:00  p.  m. 
Assembly  Hall,   3:00-3:30  p.  m. 
Barratt  Hall,  3:00-4:00  p.  m. 
Young  Building,  3:00-4:00  p.  m. 
Newhouse  Hotel,  7 :  30-9 :  30  p.  m. 
Thursday,  April  3,  1941 
Hotel  Utah,  8:00-9:45  a.  m. 
Tabernacle,  10:00-11:45  a.  m. 
Tabernacle,  2:00-4:00  p.  m. 
Belle  S.  Spafford 
Nellie  O.  Parker 
Leda  T.  Jensen 
Rae  B.  Barker 
Mary  G.  Judd 
Beatrice  F.  Stevens 
Vera  W.  Pohlman 
Pauline  T.  Pingree 
400 
150 
250 
250 
400 
400 
150 
110 
800 
Nellie  O.  Parker  170 
President  Lyman      4,000 
President  Lyman       6,000 
Representation  and  Attendance 
Members  of  the  Riverside  Stake 
Relief  Society  Board  were  in  con- 
stant attendance  at  the  three  main 
entrances  to  the  Assembly  Hall  at 
all  sessions  held  there  on  Wednes- 
day, greeting  the  officers  attending 
the  meetings,  distributing  printed 
programs,  and  assisting  in  the  reg- 
istration of  attendance. 
All  twenty-two  members  of  the 
General  Board  were  present  at  the 
conference.  One  hundred  thirty-six 
of  the  total  of  137  stakes  of  the 
Church  responded  to  the  roll  call 
in  the  officers'  meeting— all  but 
Oahu  in  Hawaii.  Although  most  of 
the  stakes  are  concentrated  in  west- 
ern United  States,  the  three  eastern 
stakes— Chicago,  New  York,  and 
Washington— were  represented,  as 
were  the  three  stakes  in  Western 
Canada— Alberta,  Lethbridge,  and 
Taylor— and  also  Juarez  in  Mexico. 
Eleven  mission  Relief  Society  presi- 
dents were  also  in  attendance,  rep- 
resenting nine  of  the  twelve  mis- 
sions with  headquarters  in  the  Unit- 
ed States— all  but  Eastern  States, 
New  England,  and  Spanish-Ameri- 
can—and including  the  Canadian 
and  Mexican  missions.  A  meeting 
of  these  eleven  mission  Relief  So- 
ciety presidents  with  the  general  of- 
ficers and  editor  of  the  Magazine 
was  held  Monday,  April  7,  at  10:00 
a.  m.,  in  the  offices  of  the  General 
Board,  for  the  consideration  of  the 
special  problems  of  Relief  Society 
in  the  missions. 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  sent  a 
written  message  (reproduced  in  full 
on  back  of  frontispiece)  to  the  con- 
ference, which  was  read  at  the  closing 
session  in  the  Tabernacle  by  Coun- 
selor Marcia  K.  Howells.  President 
David  O.  McKay  addressed  the  final 
session  of  the  conference,  honoring 
the  Tabernacle  audience  with  his 
presence  throughout  the  entire  meet- 
ing. His  address,  "Today's  Need- 
Spiritual    Awakening,"    developing

RELIEF   SOCIETY  CONFERENCE  289 
the  theme  of  the  conference,  will  diction  by  Mary  L.  Barton,  presi- 
be  printed  in  full  in  a  later  issue  dent  of  North  Davis  Stake  Relief 
of  the  Relief  Society  Magazine.  Society.  General,  stake,  and  mission 
Also  to  be  presented  in  full  in  a  officers  were  honored  at  the  evening 
future  issue  of  the  Magazine  are  the  reception  by  the  presence  of  Presi- 
addresses  of  Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirth-  dent  and  Mrs.  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 
lin  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  ,  ^  .  ^  ^7  ^  . 
-Relief  Society-An  Aid  to  the  ^"^^^  ^^  ^^^  Conference 
Bishops,"  and  of  Elder  Stringham  Devotional  organ  music  by  Alex- 
A.  Stevens,  member  of  the  General  ander  Schreiner,  Tabernacle  Organ- 
Church  Welfare  Committee,  on  ist,  appropriately  began  the  first  ses- 
''Church  Welfare,"  both  of  which  sion  of  the  conference  in  the  Assem- 
were  delivered  in  the  department  bly  Hall.  Lily  Priestley  rendered  or- 
meeting  on  social  welfare.  gan  music  at  the  close  of  this  meet- 
Supporting  the  Relief  Society  in  ing,  and  at  the  beginning  and  end  of 
its  objective  of  100,000  members  by  the  department  meetings  held  in  the 
the  end  of  this  year,  Lucy  Grant  Assembly  Hall,  and  also  accompa- 
Cannon,  President  of  the  Young  nied  the  congregational  singing  at 
Women's  Mutual  Improvement  As-  all  meetings  in  the  Assembly  Hall, 
sociation.  May  Green  Hinckley,  which  was  directed  by  Beatrice  F. 
General  Superintendent  of  the  Pri-  Stevens,  chairman  of  the  General 
mary  Association,  and  Oscar  A.  Board's  music  committee.  The  Re- 
Kirkham,  member.  National  Staff,  lief  Society  rally  song,  "A  Hundred 
Boy  Scouts  of  America,  and  Execu-  Thousand  Strong,"  composed  by 
tive  Secretary  of  the  Young  Men's  Mrs.  Stevens,  was  sung  at  the  close 
Mutual  Improvement  Association,  of  the  membership  department  in 
all  addressed  the  first  general  session  the  Assembly  Hall,  under  the  direc- 
in  the  Tabernacle,  which  was  de-  tion  of  Agnes  M.  Bolto,  president 
voted  to  the  anticipation  of  the  Re-  of  Granite  Stake  Relief  Society,  and 
lief  Society  centennial.  Elder  at  the  close  of  the  first  general  ses- 
George  D.  Pyper,  General  Superin-  sion  in  the  Tabernacle,  under  the 
tendent  of  the  Deseret  Sunday  direction  of  Laura  B.  Heslop,  chor- 
School  Union,  offered  the  invoca-  ister  of  North  Weber  Stake  Relief 
tion  at  this  session.  Society. 
General  officers  of  the  Church  Especially  featured  at  both  gen- 
auxiliaries,  and  wives  of  the  General  eral  sessions  of  the  conference  were 
Authorities  of  the  Church  also  at-  the  combined  choruses  of  Singing 
tended  various  sessions  of  the  Relief  Mothers  from  Mount  Ogden,  North 
Society  conference,  including  Vilate  Weber,  Ogden,  and  Weber  stakes, 
R.  Ivins,  Addie  E.  Hardy,  and  Ra-  composed  of  approximately  325 
chel  Grant  Taylor,  wives  of  mem-  singers,  and  directed  in  rotation  by 
bers  of  the  First  Council  of  Sev-  their  respective  stake  directors, 
enty,  who  offered  prayer  at  the  gen-  Math  el  Ridges,  Laura  B.  Heslop,  Eva 
eral  sessions.  The  invocation  at  the  P-  Green  well,  and  Nellie  Purring- 
officers'  meeting  was  given  by  Ella  ton.  Dr.  Frank  W.  Asper,  Taber- 
P.  Bennion,  president  of  Oquirrh  nable  Organist,  was  at  the  console 
Stake  Relief  Society,  and  the  bene-  during  both  general  sessions.