[Vol28 | May 1941 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Contents]

contents may be understood by all and that the special suggestions regarding any one department may reach that department head; for example, all messages regarding the lesson work should reach the class leaders. The information in the bulletin should then be adapted, enlarged, or modified according to the needs of the wards, and passed on to them. "Handbook of Instructions"And "Progress of the Church" A copy of the "Handbook of Instructions" for stake presidencies, bishoprics, and other Church officers, has, through the courtesy of the Presiding Bishop's Office, been sent to all Relief Society stake presidents. It is hoped that stake officers will read the book carefully, and place it on file for reference. The answers to many questions that come up regarding Church policies are found in this volume. The "Progress of the Church," which is likewise sent to Relief Society stake presidents through the courtesy of the Presiding Bishop's Office, should also be carefully read and placed on file. Relief Society Centennial Our centennial is drawing near.
Only one year remains before that event. We have been greatly pleased with the interest you are manifesting, and we are interested in your plans for local observances on March 17, 1942. As has been announced, the general Church-wide celebration will be held in Salt Lake City in connection with our next April conference. The Salt Lake City stakes, because of their close-in location, and because of their desire to avoid repetition and duplication in the City, have consented to hold their commemoration exercises in connection with the Church-wide celebration in April. March 17, however, will not be overlooked by them in their local units. Anthology of Relief Society Poems We are pleased to announce that during the next year the General Board expects to publish a book—an anthology of Relief Society poems. In 1924, one year after the establishment of the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest, it was decided that a selection of poems by Utah women be made with a view of publishing them in a book eventually, and a committee was appointed to take up the work. In 1939, it was proposed that an anthology of poems by Utah women be prepared as a feature of the centennial celebration, and one year later, in 1940, it was definitely decided by the Board that an anthology of poems be published as a feature of the Relief Society centennial, to consist of prize poems designated in the annual Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest, and of other. Poems selected from published writings of women of the Church, Sister 297
Annie Wells Cannon, former member of the General Board, has been authorized to prepare the anthology in cooperation with the General Board's committee on the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest, and the work is well under way. We feel sure that the women of the Church will welcome such a volume. Beautification By way of follow-up work, we mention again the importance of the beautification program of the Church.
Whata fine picture we will have when every family has made an - effort to improve its home and surroundings, and when every community in the Church has done its best to set up and maintain a standard of civic pride and beauty that will be an inspiration to every resident therein. "Secret Pal" Movement Questions have come to the General Board regarding the "secret pal" movement which has been adopted in a few of our local wards and branches. As was indicated in our blue bulletin of January 15, 1941, the General Board does not favor this movement within our organized units, and recommends its discontinuance. We call attention to an editorial in the Relief Society Magazine for November, 1939, page 746, describing the activities of this nature and setting forth the attitude of the General Board relating to them; also, we call to your attention the following excerpt from President Joseph F. Smith's Gospel Doctrine, page 483, on this subject: "IT would like to say that it is expected of the Relief Society...
That they will 298 have a watchcare over all its organizations ' among the women of Zion... And see toit that...
Cabals are not formed, that secret combinations may not get a foothold." We wonder sometimes if our women need a little more attention from one another. Are we sociable enough? Are we hospitable enough?
Does any woman come to Relief Society and go away without anyone speaking or talking to her?
Registration of Graduate Nurses The General Board is pleased to cooperate with the Nursing Council on National Defense by requesting stake and mission Relief Society presidents in the United States to announce, through their local Societies, the plan of the Council to take an inventory of the nursing forces of the country in order that experience and qualifications of: all nurses will be available when selecting personnel in the event of an emergency. 'This inventory is being conducted by means of a schedule to be filled in by all registered nurses, irrespective of age, including those actively employed and those who are married or retired. It is believed that there may be many registered nurses not now employed in nursing work who might be available in a national emergency.
Each state in the nation has its own registration bureau, and every graduate nurse should contact the bureau in her state and obtain a schedule to be filled in and returned to the bureau. In the blue bulletin of March 14, 1941, a list of addresses of registration bureaus was enclosed. Traffic Accidents We are wondering if Relief Society  women cannot be helpful in the country's effort to lessen traffic accidents, in which over 32,000 people were killed in America last year, and thousands of others were injured. A number of our fine young people have been killed or injured in automobile accidents during the last year.
Many accidents are caused through carelessness, through nonobservance of traffic rules, and through reckless driving caused by drinking.
People should refuse to ride with reckless drivers: or with drivers who have been drinking.
Even a single drink makes a driver A campaign for safety in this direction seems most important. We believe Relief Society women can be powerful factors in creating public opinion in the interest of traffic safety, respecting both automobiles and pedestrians.
Protection of Our Young People The Presiding Bishopric, in a recent issue of the "Progress of the Church" has called attention to the fact that many of our young people who leave home to secure employment, attend school, or to settle in other localities throughout the United States, often lose contact with the Church.
They are thus deptived of the protection which the Church provides, and of the opportunity for participation in religious activity. 'The Church, on the other hand, is deprived of their cooperation and help.
Next to the home, the Church feels a responsibility: for its young people, and feels that every effort should be made by its officers everywhere to keep in touch with them and to encourage them in Church activity. It is suggested by RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE the Presiding Bishopric that parents and bishops combine their efforts in this respect to the end that none of our young people lack opportunity for Church affiliation, participation, and protection, no matter where they are located.
Parents can be especially helpful by informing bishops and mission presidents of the presence of young people who have moved into their localities. The Relief Society, which has branches throughout the Church, is ever ready to give its help in this direction, and to seek out Church members, and extend to them the hospitality of the organization. Alcohol Education Pamphlets on the "Injurious Effects Resulting from the Moderate Use of Alcohol" (note the word "'moderate'"'), were recently mailed to the various stakes with the suggestion that they be distributed by the visiting teachers.
When the supply was finally available for distribution, it was found that the number was not sufficient for distribution to every Latter-day Saint home. Accordingly, a reduced supply of pamphlets was mailed. If these pamphlets are later reprinted, you will be notified so that you may order additional copies, if desired. We hope that through these pamphlets, and other means, officers and teachers will be able to stimulate an interest in this subject, and bring about a realization of the bad results of even moderate drinking.
Read and ponder over the article in the Magazine for April, by Dr. T. J. Howells, entitled, "A Doctor Challenges Alcohol." Let us make it our mission to develop sound and 299 proper public opinion relative to this matter. It has been said that public opinion, when united, organized, and aroused, is more powerful than armies. Conditions Adjacent to Military Camps I would like to call attention to the dangerous conditions which are developing around our military camps. 'The Chief of Staff of the United States Army in public appeal recently said: "Human nature being what it is, establishments for the purpose of selling liquor are becoming increasingly active in the communities adjacent to the camps, and in some communities there has been an influx of persons of questionable reputation.
Here we have on the one side a sordid business for the accumulation of money, and on the other the interest of every parent in the United States who has a son in the Army, not to mention the responsibility of the War Department to develop an army of the highest quality. 'This situation must be brought under control before it grows serious. "It is in this field, in the communities in the vicinity of our troop concentrations, that the War Department urgently desires the assistance of every welfare organization in the country.' I am sure we feel that the best safeguards our boys can have against temptation, vice, or sin, are proper religious ideals, good standards, and good habits well established.
These make the safest armor anyone can have in moments of weakness. In addition, however, it is well for them to have proper scientific and practical information regarding those things which are destructive to both body and soul. If our boys will adhere strictly to the standards of the Church and the teachings of the Gospel, and keep themselves intelli- 300 gently informed, they stand a very good chance of being safe from all evil. Relief Society womcn, we arc sure, will discuss these serious matters with their sons, these beloved boys who are being called into training, and will warn them of all dangers. We are sure also that they will cooperate with Church authorities in any suggestions, plans, or aid which might be recommended to help fortify our boys against these evils. The National Woman's Christian Temperance Union has _ recently established as its slogan, "Let us help to defend our defenders." To this end, it has "pledged its  cooperation and aid in the.
Creation of a better environment and the establishment of more recreational facilities in the vicinity of military and naval posts." The following excerpt is quoted from a newspaper release originating at Pensacola, Florida, March 28, 1941: "Fifteen houses, their doors posted with signs announcing the prevalence of venereal diseases, were under quarantine here today as the Federal Government intensified its campaign to suppress prostitution near army and navy centers."
This is a marvelous step forward in the defense and protection of our boys.
Instructions At Presidents' Breakfast President Amy Brown Lyman Attendance Not a Prerequisite for Enrollment The idea seems to be prevalent that a woman cannot be enrolled as a member of Relief Society until she has attended meetings three times. The General Board does not have a ruling to this effect, and wishes it to be clearly understood that attendance at Relief Society meetings is not a prerequisite for enrollment as a member. The Relief Society Handbook, page 182, states that "It is not recommended that new members be enrolled until it is known: that they are really interested and expect to give their allegiance to the organization."
While it is desirable that all members of the Society attend meetings as regularly as possible, it is recognized that there are many women unable to attend meetings because of old age, illness, employment, or other reasons, who, nevertheless, wish to affiliate with the Society and who value membership therein.
Singing Mothers For