The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Illustrations: Matterhorn and Riffels Transparency by Camet Lithographed in Full Colé Calla Lilies Photograph by Don Knight Dick Scopes ' Mary Scopes LET ME BE FREE Let me be free! For there are stars to lean upon And newer worlds with lovelier songs to sing. Long have | companied the world and hungered, Thinking to find them in earth's fostering. Let me be free! For there are ways untrammeled, As there are lilies with their petals still unblown; And always thoughts like heartbeats calling. Write, write, for we are yet unknown. Let me be free! With words like rainswept meadows, Performing truth, unalterable, sublime; Unwritten, save in hearts of heroes; Let me be free to manifest in rhyme! —Linnie F. Robinson Speaking as a nonmember of the Church, I would like to pay tribute to The Relief
Society Magazine. It certainly meets the spiritual and inspirational needs of women
the world over. May I tell you as a wife and mother I have grown in skills and knowledge.
Most important, with a humble heart, I can bear testimony that every issue bears
witness of "By their fruits ye shall know them."
Marian Pappas, Binghamton, New York
I have been a subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine since I can't remember when,
and I read it during my growingup years. My mother, a widow with nine children
to support, still found enough money to subscribe for the Magazine. I read the Magazine
almost through before I put it down. I especially love the poetry. I took nurse
training before my marriage, and the lessons on nursing have helped me to review
my training so that I can better care for my children.
Bertha Rollins, Selma, Alabama
Each year I have become more thrilled with the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. In
the January 1969 issue, the article on the Giant System in genealogical research is
greatly appreciated. I have been privileged to work as an officer and teacher in the
Relief Society at various times, as well as in callings in genealogical work. There is a
great need for Relief Society sisters to be more mindful of their "living" dead. Too
often this work is set aside for a future day which does not arrive.
Lucile M. Struiksma, San Diego, California
May I express my appreciation for the lovely Relief Society Magazine. The stories and
articles, as well as the lessons, are an inspiration to me. I read the entire Magazine
from cover to cover. Lucille Tilton, St. David, Arizona
I am not a member of your Church, and yet I receive The Relief Society Magazine. It
was a gift to me from one of your nicest members— Marilyn Grant. She is a delightful
person, warmhearted, devout, honest, and kind. When, out of her kindness, Marilyn
made me a present of a subscription, I found the Magazine to represent much the
same values and qualities my friend has. As I read the Magazine and put it away, it
refuses to remain away. I find myself reflecting on some of its lessons and modifying
my behavior along some of its tenets. My dear friend is away now as she has been for
two years and will be for two more— for her husband's work has taken the family to
Holland. However, each month when I receive my Magazine, it is almost as if Marilyn
had returned for a visit. Thank you for this publication.
Carolyn Orr, Campbell, California
It is hard to find a Magazine with the good in it that The Relief Society Magazine has.
I belong to the Lutheran Church, but am happy to read material of such high quality,
and I will pass the Magazine along to be read by others.
Miss Alice Tribhan), Galesburg, Illinois
I am one of your long-time readers, as well as a member of Relief Society for more
than fifty years. I enjoy the Magazine in my leisure hours, which are many now. I
think the Magazine does a great service for women, and I send wishes for many more
years of service. Magdalene C. Stephens, Salt Lake City, Utah
I greatly enjoyed the story in the February Magazine "A Day for Diddle Daddling,"
by Alice Morrey Bailey. There is naturalness and reality in this story and effective
representation of characters. Love to you, Alice, and all your "diddle-daddling"
friends. Rosa Lee Lloyd, Salt Lake City, Utah
242

The Relief Society Magazine volume 56 April 1969 Number 4 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 244 Hope and Encouragement for Cancer Cure Spencer W. Kimball 248 Award Winners—Relief Society Poem Contest 249 Award Winners—Relief Society Short Story Contest 250 Pisgah—First Prize Poem Ina J. Hobson 252 Of Ephraim—Second Prize Poem Alice Morrey Bailey 254 Woman Remembered—Third Prize Poem Pearle M. Olsen 256 A Horse and Buggy Romance—First Prize Story Iris W. Schow 263 Mama and the Teddy Bear—Second Prize Story Lael J. Littke 270 ___—siThe Silver Pitcher—Third Prize Story Grace M. Pratt 278 Research, Education, Service The American Cancer Society 292 Magazine Honor Roll for 1968 Marianne C. Sharp Fiction 286 Welcome the Task—Chapter 6 Michele Bartmess General Features 242 From Near and Far 276 ~—sEditorial—Truth Abideth Forever Marianne C. Sharp 279 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 300 _ ~=s— Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 281 Project Housecleaning Edythe K. Watson 283 Recipes From New Zealand Anna Molenaar 284 Black Satin and Love Ada Stonely Yates 285 Hobby Features—Annie N. Morrill and Mary Ann M. Allred Lesson Department 313 Homemaking—Gardening Appearance Celestia J. Taylor Poetry 241 Let Me Be Free Linnie F. Robinson Thankfulness, Grace B. Wilson 247; Easter, Bertha A. Kleinman 269; Trust, Gay N. Blanchard 280; Song of a Happy Housewife, Evelyn M. Sandberg 316. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be rétained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 243 

Hope and Encouragement for CANCER CURE Elder Spencer W. Kimball of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at a meeting of the Utah Division of the American Cancer Society, April 13, 1968] mw Tonight, we meet to unite our forces and our interests in raising funds with which to combat the destructive forces which each year cause such monumental havoc in loss of life, suffering, pain, and misery. Recently in an issue of the Reader's Digest in the advertisement section appeared the following: AGAR MT BABA BABLlEASLGBARA A ar usa yy @ a A a O/\e\8'8 fo yy eva aveVeVe ese > SPEAKING OF THE BROAD SPECTRUM—ANTIBIOTICS... Those universal germ killers made possible the practical control of more than 100 varieties of infections including those responsible for: CHOLERA CERTAIN PNEUMONIAS WHOOPING COUGH ROCKY MOUNTAIN FEVER DEADLY PARROT FEVER SPOTTED FEVER TYPHOID FEVER AS WELL AS TYPHUS* The article said the span of man's life had been extended fifteen years since 1900. As I read this, I was almost overwhelmed with gratitude to the researchers who discovered these precious medicines which made possible the cure of these dread diseases, and to the many people who contributed funds for such rewarding research. There came rushing back through my memory a sixty-one year old picture of anguish, terror, fear, hopelessness. There we were, eight of our mother's "Advertisement, Reader's Digest, February 1968, Reprinted by permission of the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association. 244 eleven, in our parents' bedroom. Our mother was dead. Our father was away. Our older brother Gordon sat in the chair holding our littlest sister while she died, with all of us youngsters around the chair frightened and praying and weeping. The doctor was miles away. His horse and buggy could not possibly have brought him there soon enough, and what could he do if he arrived? It seemed to be a combination of diphtheria and membraneous croup, and little Poche was literally choking to death. In terror, we watched the little body fight valiantly for air and life, then suddenly relax completely. The hard-fought battle was over. She had lost. Our older brother seemed to be reluctant to admit it was over. He held her for awhile, hoping hopelessly. And while we children convulsively held to each other in this traumatic experience, he tenderly carried the little lifeless body to the bed and covered it with a sheet, and there welled up in our hearts an almost uncontrollable anguish and a dark void and deep emptiness. As we tried vainly to comfort each other, we had no idea that some day in our own time, nv more little two-year-olds would die from these afflictions, but that intelligent, determined men of science would find the preventative and cure. And, then, my memory took me back over half a century when I was a teenager. One day all the symptoms of typhoid fever enveloped me, and a deep dizziness sent me to the bed holding to the sides of it with both hands. I knew in those pioneer days in a Hope and Encouragement for Cancer Cure new world nearly every family had its share of typhoid. Contaminated water, littlesanitation, no hospitals, nor nurses, nor preventative medicine, those loving parents just lived on and hoped. Double and triple funerals were common, even in this small country town. The cemetery expanded unmercifully fast. I had never dreamed that I, too, would be its victim. My country doctor was devoted and attentive, but he had few facilities and possibly was limited in knowledge. Well do I remember the long starvation period, and the pain, agonies, and distresses of those many weeks which would seemingly never end. But, I was one of the fortunate ones—I lived. And as I lay helpless and near hopeless in my agonies, little did I dream that some day I would have a direct posterity of more than thirty-one souls, and not one of them would ever have typhoid fever—thanks to the diligent, faithful researchers and those who helped finance the studies. My memory again took me back a half century, when as - young newlyweds, we were to be plagued with the dread disease of smallpox. There was an epidemic in the little town—everybody was exposed—many were to suffer as did I, and some were to lose their lives to this merciless monster killer. I had the kindest, sweetest nurse in the world and through her tender care, the fever finally subsided, the distress phased out, and even the pox marks cleared up. As we sat waiting and suffering and watching day after day, little did we know then that we 245 April 1969 would some day travel the world around into far corners of numerous countries where this disease still ravages communities, and that we would never be inconvenienced nor suffer again from this killer—smallpox. The vaccination operation is simple and takes but a minute, and there is real protection, thanks again to the noble, relentless medical searchers for cures. And then memory took me back again to the time when our youngest became paralyzed with the dreaded infantile paralysis which was so rampant in the thirties. The family doctor did not recognize the symptoms, and our little three-year-old lay for days as we suffered with him. Finally, impatiently, we took little Eddie to another doctor who, on the second visit, got out his big book and compared the symptoms with the little fellow's aches and pains and fevers, and said: "You know, I am afraid this is poliomyelitis." This had always been a torture word to us. Eddie's granduncle had been on_ crutches nearly his whole life. Never had he been able to use one of his legs. And I had _ frequently walked to school in my childhood days with William, a boy a little older than myself. I assume his crippled body was the result of this torturing malady. With a cane, he struggled his way the two blocks to school. How I ached for him when I had such strong straight legs, and he, with bent and crippled ones, gave such great exertion to cover the distance. He spent his later years in a wheel chair. With all this in mind, the prospect of our 246 little son being a polio victim was devastating. In only hours, we were traveling through the night across the deserts of Arizona and California to take him to recognized specialists. Our little one was taken from our arms, placed on a hospital truck, and whisked away to a fourth-story quarantine area. The suffering of our little fellow, his loneliness, his mother's telling him stories by the hour through the crack in the door, our huddling down under his window and agonizing as he cried in his fear and loneliness, is another story, as is also the many years of commuting to Los Angeles, the numerous operations, the therapy by his devoted mother, the metal braces from neck to toe, the casts, and the crutches, the canes—all this cannot be told when time is now so crowded. There were the dime marches, the crusades for funds, the amassing of scientists and the accelerating of research. Among the numerous other victims of polio at that time was Franklin D. Roosevelt who later became the President of the United States. As we agonized through those years and hoped and _ prayed, little did we dream that vaccines would be discovered which would largely eradicate this menace of polio from the torture chambers, and again, though it was late for us, we thanked the Lord and the scientists and the contributors for their untiring zeal and contributions to rid the world of this dread enemy _ which maimed and crippled so many. And then, cancer came into the family. At this time, there was no certain prevention nor cure. We saw my mother-in-law fade away to her death. We saw our stepmother in her mortal agonies, finally to pass away while still in middle life. Then, we saw my _ younger sister, mother of seven children, fight for her life through endless months. All assistance was brought to save her, but the dread _ killer literally ate away much of her face. This experience was hardly over and its sweet victim buried, when the killer attacked me. It was to hit me in one of my most vulnerable spots. All my work depended on a voice. What would life be without a voice—especially in my work! I remembered in the scripture Where Joel, the prophet, said ""Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision: for the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision."' To die early or to survive a living death without a voice with which to do my sacred work! [| Hope and Encouragement for Cancer Cure was near lost in my own valley of decision. My faithful local specialist prevailed upon the New York Specialist to remove only the actually diseased tissue, and a part of one vocal cord was spared the knife. And thanks to a great throat specialist and his advisers, and the kind and loving grace of my Lord through the numerous prayers of the multitudes of my friends, I speak. My gratitude has no bounds. I know of many who have not been so fortunate. And, I look forward to the day when the fiend cancer takes its place in the cemetery of diseases, along with the other ones already controlled. To this end, we meet tonight to give hope, encouragement with funds and cheers and confidence to those who will never cease their relentless efforts til] cancer is conquered. And, I pray that this may soon be the great blessing of all people in this, our precious global village, in the cause of his Holy Name. Amen. THANKFULNESS There are so many things I'm thankful for: The brightness of the early morning climb Of sun when day begins, and brighter still The west when sunset heralds evening time. The warmth and comfort of my little house, And all the friends who often stop to cheer What otherwise might be a lonely hour; And then my far-off family most dear. For length of years, and talent lent to serve In bringing bits of Joy to humankind: For health and stren My calm assurance, gth all through the many years, and my peace of mind. —Grace B. Wilson A Relief Society Poem "E Contest '2. Avgrgg7® w The Relief Society General Board is happy to announce the names of the three winners in the 1968 Relief Society Poem Contest. The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Ina Jespersen Hobson, El Cajon, California, for her poem "Pisgah." Second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "Of Ephraim." Twenty dollars is awarded to the third place winner, Pearle M. Olsen, Salt Lake City, for her poem "Woman Remembered." The poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924. It is open to all Latter-day Saint women and Is designed to encourage poetry writing and to increase appreciation for creative writing. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be used for publication by others except by written permission from the General Board. The Board reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication according to the regular Magazine rates. A writer who has received first place for two consecutive years must wait two years before she Is eligible to enter the contest again. Mrs. Hobson is a first-time winner in the contest and a first-time contributor to The Relief Society Magazine. Mrs. Bailey ts well-known to readers of the Magazine, having placed seven times in the poem contest and four times in the short story contest, aS well as being represented in the Magazine many times with serials, short stories, and poems. Mrs. Olsen has placed in the poetry contest three times, and many of her poems have been published in the Magazine. Four hundred sixty-nine poems were entered in the 1968 contest, repre: senting forty-one States, including Hawaii, as well as Canada, Australia, England, Scotland, Northern \reland, Venezuela, New Zealand, the Tongan Islands, and Guam. The largest number of entries Was received from Utah, California, \daho, Arizona, Washington, Colorado, New Mexico, Michigan, New York, and Montana, in that order. Ten entries came from Australia, nine from Canada, and seven from England. The winners are to be congratulated by the General Board and appreciation is expressed to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The services of the judges and members of the General Board who served on the contest committee are also appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and brief sketches of the prize winners, are published in this issue. 248 FIRST PRIZE POEM 250 PISGAH Ina J. Hobson ''Here, take my hand,"' | said but yesterday, and now you stand so tall, The need has Passed, and you walk on alone. The promised land of all your life's tomorrows— Where | may not go—. Is beckoning in the golden distance now, and lies, Bright as a Midas kingdom, in the shimmering air. It seems to your enchanted gaze a land Of milk and honey Flowing from rich reservoir of ages past. And so, in truth, it is. But know this, too: Beyond the river's leafy, sunlit edge The world's dark wisdom waits. The hills and valleys seen so fair will soon Or later make demand of all your powers. Hear, dear child of light: obedience and sacrifice Are still the law As anciently they were. And God will have The broken heart and contrite spirit now as then. Give me your hand once more; | go out Lonely upon the hills to escape your going. Ina Jespersen Hobson, EI Cajon, California, winner of the first prize in the poem contest, appears for the first time in the pages of The Relief Society Magazine. She is "delighted and honored to receive the award. Writing and reading poetry is an intellectual and spiritual experience, and finding listening ears and hearts heightens the experience. ''My husband David and | are transplanted Arizonians, but our children are all natives of California: our son David who lives with his wife Donna in Los Angeles, where he attends dental school; Don, who will be in college next year; and Ann, who is still in high school. '| have written little since my college years when, as a senior at the University of Arizona, | won the Jennie Fowler Memorial Poetry Award. | am represented in an anthology of Arizona women poets. In the intervening years, pleasure in the written word has been richly fed by teaching assignments in Relief Society, principally in the cultural refinement department." 251 SECOND PRIZE POEM OF EPHRAIM Alice Morrey Bailey ~ The patriarchal hands burn on my head. Of Ephraim! That noble Joseph's son, Whose coat of many colors warms my blood— And Ephraim's restless feet have led me here To far-off lands beyond my fathers' home To this blessed place, this promised boon of earth. But how? And why? What workings of the hand Of providence preserved me thus? What chance? When eye meets eye and leaping pulse meets pulse To crimson lines of parents back to him? My fingers trace the ancient books to learn The straight ancestral path, the tortuous trail Of wanderings, the way this lineage folds To heal its wounds from wars and pestilence, The way it shifts to leadership's high place, But drops the wicked at the founts of life, The way it seeks the waterways, or climbs The mountain heights or leaps the ocean's depths, For Ephraim ever fled oppression's heel And sought for freedom's land to worship God. Of Israel's countless sands, | am his part Through thousand-arteried hallways to his heart. 252 Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, Utah, second prize winner in the poem contest, is well-known to readers of The Relief Society Magazine. She is a seven-times winner in the poem contest and has received an award four times in the short story contest, as well as placing many poems, stories, and articles in the Magazine. She grew up in a large family in a small town (Joseph, Utah). Her husband is DeWitt Bailey, and she has three children, fourteen grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren. Mrs. Bailey is multiple gifted and versatile in her achievements. ''| am now retired,"' she tells us, '"'after working twenty years as a graduate Relief Society nurse-aid, six years for the United States Department of Agriculture (as draftsman), and twenty years as secretary-draftsman at the University of Utah. | continue with free-lance writing and sculpture in my home, and am very much involved in genealogy work. | have published one book of family history and am working on another one. | have taught all classes in Relief Society and have served as organist. | am an honorary Golden Gleaner and have served as a stake missionary." She is a member of the League of Utah Writers, the Utah State Poetry Society, the Sonneteers (a workshop group), and has belonged to the American Penwomen. She is a memberof the Associated Utah Artists and is listed in Who's Who in the West and the Royal Blue Book, London, Engiand. Her stories and poems have won numerous prizes and many of them have been published both locally and in national periodicals. 253 THIRD PRIZE POEM WOMAN REMEMBERED Pearle M. Olsen Sleep quietly, woman remembered, written in stone You of the early days... Rest is your own. Child of a foreign yesterday When words of promise told a way Of life, to be fulfilled... Tomorrow. A path to graves, a journey into sorrow, A too swift separation from the known Took all from you, orphaned and alone. Your mother's faith, when her travel began, Was bequeathed to you in an oxen caravan. As miles were measured in a swirl of dust, And into winter's quick and numbing thrust, You climbed a hill of hope to heal your pain, And no one, no one, heard your lips complain. What hand gave help on your walk with the sun Where broken trails were woven into one? Whose hearth gave warmth, and comforted Your loneliness when dimming shadow spread? Mother of many now blessing your name, In a circle of heritage love weaves a frame. Sleep quietly, woman remembered, written in stone You of completed days rest is your own. 254 Pearle M. Olsen, Salt Lake City, Utah, a third-time winner in the poetry contest, was born and grew up in Mt. Pleasant, Utah. Her father was John K. Madsen, a rancher famous in the Rambouillet sheep business. She served as a missionary in California, and has held many executive and teaching positions in the auxiliaries of the Church. She is an honorary Golden Gleaner and served six years as president of North Sanpete Stake Relief Society. She is a former member of the General Board of Relief Society. She is a talented musician and devoted genealogist. Her husband is W. C. Olsen, and there are three children: John K. M. Olsen, Billye O. Jenkins, Carlyle O. Morris, and fifteen grandchildren. Sister Olsen believes that contests are stimulating and challenging. 'Writers do well to avail themselves of the opportunities offered by competition. | am writing and studying writing techniques, after a two-year pause to edit a large family book. | have found help through creative writing classes and organizations. | hold membership in the Utah State Poetry Society, and serve as its corresponding secretary. | am a member of Penwomen, and of Sonneteers. The first writing group with which | affiliated was the League of Utah Writers." 255 @ You wonder why Uncle Eli Mallory's younger children call me Aunt Emma, and yet I speak of his older children as my cousins? And how Uncle Eli can be Daddy's brother-in-law, and mine, even though he's our uncle? Well, it does sound like a complicated situation. It all grew out of a comical adventure, which might be called a horse and buggy romance. The summer I was eighteen Father sold his wheat farm out north of the temple and bought the fruit farm over in the valley below Verona, to return to his boyhood community. I certainly didn't want to move; two young men were showing me a good time that summer. Ben played both guitar and mandolin, and when we had group singing I could make the old parlor organ sound pretty lively. Henry, a brilliant college student, owned a new single buggy in which we could ride, just the two of us. Or another couple could go along, if the girl sat on the fellow's lap. Father didn't approve of either situation, but times like the afternoon of the circus or the Fourth of July, he did let me go. Father disapproved of the occasional drinks Henry took with the fellows, and so did I. But he worried, too, because Ben didn't. Have a steady job. Uncle Eli was there helping Father put up hay, but he was going home to market his own peach crop. His four motherless children were in Grandma Mallory's care, as they often were since Aunt Maria's death five years before. Father was worrying because the new owner wasn't taking over the wheat farm be- 256 FIRST PRIZE STORY A Horse and Bugéy Romance Tris W. Schow fore the harvest, and with Nephi away on a mission, how could we get the peach crop over on the new farm marketed? Then, with that twinkly squint in his blue eyes, Uncle Eli suggested that I ride home with him, stay with Grandma Mallory, and market the crop. Of course, he would round up some fruit pickers and supervise everything. Everyone thought this was a grand plan, except me. When I complained to Mother that I would lose my good times with both Henry and Ben—I didn't know which I liked better —she said, "Now stop thinking only of yourself, Emma. If either Ben or Henry is the right one for you—which I doubt—the way will be opened up, and he will get over there to court you. But I think the right one is over there, where Father found me, and Uncle Eli found his Maria." Protesting was useless. When the afternoon came, I packed everything I owned, for I decided to do my own moving and get it done right. What two suitcases wouldn't hold, I put into a good stout box, tied tightly with the old rope that used to tether my pet lamb. I marked it Emma Mallory in black crayon and left it in the bedroom I had shared with my younger sisters. I dressed in a somewhat faded pink frock trimmed with black ribbons threaded through lace beading. There was no point in fixing up just to ride through the mountains with Uncle Eli. We would reach Grandma's about dark, and I didn't know the young people over there, anyway. But there was my best hat, a -widebrimmed white leghorn with pink satin ribbons and darling little blue forget-me-nots. How to move that? I set it on my head, pinned it to my firmly done-up blonde hair, and smiled into the mirror. The girl with the shining brown eyes and pretty nose smiled back. Perhaps her smile was a little too broad, making the even teeth appear small by comparison. Yet, on the whole, I was A Horse and Buggy Romance quite pretty, even in the faded dress. And I had devised the perfect way to move a hat. "Why the Sunday hat with the old dress?" asked Father, firmly. Cheery even in farewell. Uncle Eh, taller even than his older brother, gave my cheek a little pinch in the annoying way he reserved. For children. "There's no point in fixing up for a ride over the mountains," I said, "but this is the safest way to move a lady's best hat." Everyone laughed, and Uncle Eli, wearing his second best suit, which he had felt sufficed for one Sunday School and sacrament meeting away from home, set his own stiff straw hat firmly on his head. Then off we went in the single buggy he had driven while courting Aunt Maria thirteen years before. Of course, at eighteen, I regarded Uncle Eli as an old fuddyduddy, and I hadn't much to say to him. He was around thirtyseven, and his four children ranged in age from five to eleven. He sometimes remarked that he was trying to be both father and mother to them, although certainly nobody could hope actually to replace Maria. Everyone thought that after five years of this, Uncle Eli certainly should undertake finding some really sweet girl to be their stepmother. But if Grandma or Father even mentioned that to him, he just said that nobody could ever take Maria's place with either him or the children. We were past all the farms and into the hills before we talked much, probably because we both had plenty to think about. And then somehow we 257 April 1969 moved from brief remarks about marketing the peaches to discussing our own personal problems. I mentioned my disappointment over giving up the fun singing while Ben played the mandolin or guitar, and Uncle Eli told me how he and Aunt Maria used to visit all the wards together when he was the stake Sunday School chorister, while she was stake organist. "But I couldn't go on singing in public, when she was gone," he said. "Not merely because it wouldn't be showing a_ proper respect for her, but because I just couldn't stand to have someone else sitting there playing the " organ When Uncle Eli's voice broke, I hastily began telling him how I would miss riding in Henry's shiny new buggy. Then he began telling me how nice his own buggy had been when it was new, and how pretty Maria's curly black hair had been, and how her big brown eyes had sparkled when he took her driving. "Some people said Maria was a trifle too heavy. But I didn't think she was too plump. To me Maria was always right as rain in every respect. Yes, sir, girl, right as rain!" Uncle Eli's eyes filled with tears. He looked straight ahead again. Riding here alone with him, I sensed for the first time something of the depth and meaning of his sincere sorrow. "Speaking of rain," he said presently in his natural tone, "those clouds in the west look black, don't they? I'd hate to be caught in a summer shower up here. Late August is pretty un- 258 dependable. What do you think, girl?" Knowing nothing about it, I told him how I would miss being Sunday School organist, and he said he had been on the high council almost from the hour he had been released as stake chorister, so he visited a ward each month. And he might drop a hint at our new ward that I played the organ. Just then came a flash of lightning and a clap of thunder, and we realized that it looked very much indeed like rain. It was rain. It became dark as twilight. The dirt road grew muddy and slippery. I pulled the lap robe up to my shoulders, and Uncle Eli did have his suit coat. The buggy top protected us pretty well. The storm grew fiercer and fiercer. When it rains like that in the canyon, the lightning dances on the road in front of you. So in a sense we could see the road very well: Dolly, the mare, was very steady. But the road was narrow then. At the second bend above Verona the back wheel slid from the road's edge, something broke on the buggy, and we landed in the gully, suitcases, buggy, mare, and all, in the slippery mud of that terrible storm. Uncle Eli got me out. Then he extricated Dolly, and finally his straw hat and the suitcases. He tried to see if he could get the buggy out, and then when he couldn't, he tried to see what it would take to fix the broken part. We were drenched in no time. Uncle Eli was sure there was not a dry thread on him. By the time he decided to carry the suitcases and have me lead Dolly into Verona, it was getting really dark. He fastened his own small bag of soiled work clothes somewhere on Dolly's harness, and we proceeded, the lightning helping us stay on the road. "You never realize it's so far to the outskirts of Verona, when you re dashing along in the buggy behind a spirited horse,' commented Uncle El. "But we'll stop at the first lighted house. Are you moving the flatirons in these suitcases, Emma?" "No," I said, "but about everything I own is in them." The storm was less wild now, but it certainly had not stopped raining. I felt sorry for us both. When at last a lighted house appeared, Uncle Eli said assuringly, who will open ™ the door when I knock. But we are all brothers in the gospel, and I do know it will be someone I've seen at the Verona meetinghouse, for almost everyone in this little valley belongs to the Church." He never did knock on the door, however, for the moment he A Horse and Buggy Romance touched the yard gate, the dogs barked furiously, charging out, circling back, and charging out again. When the door opened, the dogs reluctantly subsided, and there in the beam of lamplight Uncle Bhi lifted his dripping straw hat. The middle-aged lady, recognizing the high councilman, eXclaimed, "Why, Brother Mallory!" in tones of disbelieving, dismayed sympathy. Then many family members clustered behind her. Uncle Eli hurried toward her, exclaiming, "Sister Renstrom!" and began to explain our situation. Meantime I led Dolly into the yard and toward the light, pausing when I was as neat to the house as one a ought to bring AA One dog kept coming up and sniffing at Dolly, which made both her and me nervous. "Jim! Ted!" called Sister Renstrom. "Go and help Brother Mallory.". A sturdy young man emerged, followed by his younger brother. Both were donning 259 April 1969 denim jumpers over their blue work shirts and overalls. "1 0 (a AWA: ny AM Emma Mallory," said Uncle Eli. "She's moving to our city." The older, taller, more handsome young man gave me an amused glance, and Uncle Eh, noticing my hat, remarked, "Emma is demonstrating that the safest way to move a lady's Sunday hat is just to wear it." I had completely forgotten my hat during our distress, but now I realized that it sagged on the sides like a pair of horse's blinkers. And I had thought that Uncle Eli cut a ridiculous figure before these people! "This is not my best hat!" I said. "In fact, I don't even have a Sunday hat, right now." | 260 (Set "You look very pretty in it, Miss Mallory, I assure you, very pretty," said Jim, still grinning as he led Dolly away. Oh This was what came of everybody's always putting things like the peach crop ahead of everything else, I thought. "Ted, fetch Jim a lantern," directed Sister Renstrom. "Come in, folks. Rena, beat up some more biscuits like we had for supper. Tillie, take Miss Mallory up to Rena's room where she can into some dry _ clothes. Father," she added, addressing Brother Renstrom, "you'd better find something Brother Mallory can wear." Everyone became very busy. The somewhat plump woman addressed as Rena—she must have been approaching thirty— was already demonstrating that when her mother asked for beaten biscuits she meant just that. Rena had arched black eyebrows, black hair scooped back and piled high, soft, delicately pink cheeks, and a chin that, in spite of the roundness of her pretty face, somehow came to a sort of pointed effect. She seemed to concentrate utterly on the work at hand, there in the warm kitchen. Then Brother Renstrom marched upstairs with my suitcases, followed by Uncle Eli with his miserably wet little canvas bag of laundry. Ham was already frying, and Sister Renstrom was setting the table, before the daughter Tillie and I mounted the stairs. My suitcases contained plenty of clothes to choose from, but I knew that Uncle Eli had practically nothing of his own to put on. Glancing in the mirror as I removed the ruined hat, I observed how the black ribbon had streaked the white beading and faded old dress. I'd choose nothing that suggested pink, to remind anyone of this bedraggled dress with its muddy dust ruffle. I selected an Alice blue cotton with no trimming except wide ruffles of the goods, around the shoulders, yoke, and hem. What a supper was waiting when I returned to the warm kitchen! Rena kept urging second helpings on Uncle Eli and me. When Ted had lit a fire in the parlor, he and Jim joined us for the dessert. Well, as the group became better acquainted, we learned that Jim was the Sunday School chorister. Although Rena was Sunday School secretary, she was also organist for the ward choir. And since Jim was not right sure how the new practice song should be sung, and he could remember Uncle Eli as. Stake chorister, naturally he asked for Uncle Eli's opinion. Next thing we knew, we were in the parlor, and Rena was playing the organ, while Jim and Uncle Eli sang, first softly, and then a little louder. Finally Jim had little Tillie and me singing soprano, while Sister Renstrom and Rena took the alto, and Brother Renstrom and Ted supplied the bass. It was interesting to see Uncle Eli maintaining his dignity in a white shirt and some cotton wash trousers of Jim's, with both shirt sleeves and trouser legs a trifle too short. And how sweetly Rena looked up inquiringly at him to be clued as to the way he wanted the music played, and, A Horse and Buggy Romance suddenly, you saw that her eyes weren't brown, but a beautiful cornflower blue. It was her long black eyelashes that made her eyes seem brown. Then I played the organ while we sang other Sunday School songs, and presently some popular songs of the day were suggested. Jim got his guitar, and Rena took to the organ again. Rena not only read notes, she played by ear, too, which meant that any tune she had heard, she could play right off, whereas I had to keep my eyes on the music book. Still, I had held my own pretty well. Uncle Eli had hardly been fair to make it known at home that he was not singing and harmonizing without Aunt Maria. For now here he was gaily singing, not just the hymns of the gospel, but some of the gayhearted songs of recent years, as well. Once his hand unconsciously nearly alighted on Rena's shoulder, and then as quickly dropped to his side. Next morning after a wonderful breakfast, which included the best omelette I had ever tasted, the men went up to get the buggy. Soon Uncle Eli and I reported to our respective duties in town, and the summer proceeded according to plan. It was not exactly love at first sight with Uncle Eli and Rena. But Uncle Eli arranged for a series of second sights. When he visited Verona in his capacity as high councilman, naturally he inspected the Sunday School records to see that Rena kept them properly. In the afternoon he found occasion to discuss the organ music with Rena before 261 April 1969 or after meeting. And the brother who accompanied Uncle Eli on the visits evidently saw how the land lay, and suggested that frequent visits to the Verona Ward by Brother Mallory were desirable. So in the not too long and winding course of time Uncle Eli had won a bride and a mother for his four youngsters. As for Jim and me, after his first amused glance at my drooping hat, I never again wondered which fellow I liked best. And, since Jim was the right one, he managed to find the way to Father's orchard whenever his mother needed some cantaloupes, melons, or her canning peaches. During those calls he told me about the crops he raised on the dry farm he was paying for. When Father arrived, he was perfectly willing for me to ride with Jim in his single buggy, and, later, in the Renstrom's cutter during the winter. By spring Jim and I had our wedding all planned for just a little later than Uncle Eli's and Aunt Rena's. So you see, I learned that Mother was correct about the way being opened up for the rignt one to manage to get through the canyons to see me. If you do what's best for everyone else, it usually turns out to be what's really best for yourself as well. Look at Uncle Eli. Look at Aunt Rena. And look at me and at your father. Two whitetop buggies and a single buggy went through the canyons to take the families to the temple when Uncle Eli and Aunt Rena were married. But it took two whitetops and three single buggies to get the families to our wedding, for Nephi was home from his mission by then, and one of his missionary friends, who had become interested in our younger sister, went with him. Father said perhaps we should have just stayed on the dry farm, to be near the temple. Mother said that maybe there wouldn't have been so many desirable weddings, if we had. But then, I did say at the very beginning that it was a_ horse and buggy romance, now, didn't I? Iris W. Schow, Brigham City, Utah, winner of the first prize in the short story contest, is talented in both prose and poetry writing. Her interpretations of regional writing are especially effective. Her work has been recognized in her home state and nationally. Iris Schow was only ten years old when one of her poems was published in The Juvenile Instructor and was awarded a special prize. This early encouragement and continued recognition by the Church publications have been greatly appreciated. She has placed in the Relief Society Poem Contest, and her stories and poems, showing remarkable versatility and craftsmanship, have appeared in many issues of The Relief Society Magazine. She is the eldest of six children, and her mother, Eleanor Welch Schow, is a poet of note, having placed in the Relief Society Poem Contest, and having her work frequently published in the Church magazines and elsewhere. Lris Schow has served as Utah State President of the American Penwomen and as Pacific South Regional Editor for the National League of American Penwomen. She is a member of the Utah State Poetry Society and the League of Utah Writers. She holds a degree in elementary education, with a minor in English. Her Church work has included stake and ward positions in Sunday School. 262 SECOND PRIZE STORY Mamma and the Teddy Bear Lael J. Littke @ Bishop Carlson always said that if all the members of our ward magnified their callings the way Mama did hers as Relief Society president, we wouldn't even need him. He said Mama was a person who would always walk the second mile with you: Papa said she not only walked the second mile, she went all the way home with you, cooked your dinner, served it to you, and then while you ate she got up and patched your roof. Which was exactly what she was doing the day she broke her leg. Patching a roof, I mean. Linda and I had just arrived home from a swimming lesson that summer day when little Billy Sharp came pounding at our door. His eyes were enormous in his pale face. "Come quick," he _ gasped. "Your Mama fell off Grandma Winkle's roof and she's broke. She wants you to come." It was four blocks to Grandma Winkle's little house, but I think Linda and I were there practically before Billy finished speaking. Mama, surrounded by several of Grandma Winkle's neighbors, was lying on the grass propped up on sofa pillows. She was, as usual, in complete charge of the situation and we wouldn't have known she was "broke" except that the smile she gave us was rather pinched, as if she were pasting it over a cry of pain. Our little sister, Cissie, was sitting by her head clutching her ever-present stuffed bear, Mrs. Teddy, and sobbing. "Mama," Linda and I said together as we knelt by her side. Linda is fourteen and I'm twelve, but we started crying like babies. "Tt's all right," Mama said briskly. "I have just had a little accident. I think my leg is broken, but don't worry about it." "She fell off the ceiling," wept Cissie. "The roof," Mama corrected. "T was fixing a leak. The ladder slipped." A few blocks away we heard the wail of an ambulance siren. 263 April 1969 "There it comes," said old Mr. Dawson, who had only been hobbling around looking for some way to help. "Do you want I should phone your husband, Mrs. Hastings?" "Thank you, Mr. Dawson," Mama said, "but my daughters will do that." "Won't let me do anything," grumbled Mr. Dawson. "Would have called the ambulance hersélf if she could have stood up." Grandma Winkle hovered nearby, wringing her hands and saying she shouldn't have let Mama go upon the roof. "But don't you worry about your family while you're gone," she _ said. "T'll go over and see that they're fed." The ambulance was. Coming down Grandma Winkle's street, and Mama almost had to shout to be heard. "No," she said, "your arthritis is too bad for you to be gallivanting around like that. My girls can take care of everything." Other people were crowding around offering to do_ things, but Mama pulled Linda and me close. "IT want you to run right home and clean up the house," she whispered. "The Relief Society ladies will probably come by a little later and I went off and left the dishes in the sink after lunch. You get things cleaned up and then tell them you can get along just fine. They've all got enough to do without bothering. About what you girls are perfectly capable of doing." Before Linda and I had time to comment, the ambulance had parked and two white-coated men 264 jumped out, examined Mama briefly, and lifted her onto a stretcher which they put inside. While one man asked a few questions, the other got in and started the motor. Cissie pounded on the glass window of the ambulance and held up her bear, but all Mama could do was smile at her. "I wanted Mama to have Mrs. Teddy," Cissie cried as the long white vehicle shrieked away. Sister Feeney, Mama's first counselor, arrived just in time to see it disappear down the street. "T came as soon as I heard," she puffed. 'Come along, we'd better go call your father. Ill go home with you and stay until he comes." "No, you don't need to," Linda said in a voice that sounded almost like Mama's. '"We'll take care of everything. We don't want to bother anyone." "Fiddle-dee-dee," said Sister Feeney. "Sure, it's little enough chance any of us get to do anything for your mother. Come along now. I'm in charge." "Yes, ma'am," Linda said meekly, and I could tell she was glad to let Sister Feeney take over.. By the time Papa came home several hours later and told us Mama was doing fine in spite of her broken leg, Sister Feeney had a whole list of ladies who had offered to cook dinner and clean house for us until Mama got well. When Papa looked at it, he said, 'I can't tell you how much I appreciate this. Anne will probably be able to come home from the hospital tomorrow afternoon since the doctor says the break isn't a bad one." He looked at Sister Feeney and hesitated a little. "She'll have to take things pretty easy for a while, but I just don't know what she will say about this," he said, indicating the list. "You know how she is." "Well," Sister Feeney said firmly, "we just won't let her say anything." But it's practically impossible not to let Mama say anything. Papa brought her home the next afternoon with her leg all encased in plaster, and she had no sooner got inside the house than she started telling us what to do. She had_Papa pull out the sofa bed in the living room even though he said she would be able to rest better in her own bed upstairs. "Why, I wouldn't know what was going on if I was stuck way up there," she said. She looked up at Linda, Cissie, and me clustered around the sofa, our eyes enormous with concern. "Why so serious?" she laughed. "I've always wanted a career on the stage, and now I have a part in a cast." It takes more than a broken leg to get Mama down. It wasn't long until she started thinking about dinner. We told her then about Sister Feeney's list and how the Relief Society ladies were going to come in and do things for us. "Sister Frandsen is bringing our dinner tonight," Linda said, "and Grandma Winkle tomorrow night." "Nonsense," Mama said.. "Sister Frandsen is busy enough with her six children and her husband sick the way he is. And Grandma Winkle can't get around well Mamma and the Teddy Bear enough to be_ trotting over here." She asked Papa to bring her the telephone. "I'm going to call Sister Feeney right now and tell her it isn't necessary, not when I have two big girls to help me." She smiled at Linda and me. Cissie was leaning against the sofa clutching Mrs. Teddy and touching Mama now and then to make sure she really was all right. "Mama," she said, "what can I do for you?" Mama put an arm around her and gave her a little squeeze. "Just be my good little girl, honey," she said, taking the telephone Papa handed her. Cissie pulled away and walked over to the window where she stood sucking one of Mrs. Teddy's ears and staring out of the window, but Mama didn't notice because she was dialing Sister Feeney's number. April 1969 When Mama talked to Sister Feeney, it was like the irresistible force meeting the immovable object that my sixth grade teacher told us about. But not even an immovable object can hold out against Mama. She was very tactful about it, of course. The way she put it, Linda and my chances of becoming good future homemakers would be ruined if we didn't take this opportunity to learn what it was all about. Evidently she convinced Sister Feeney because when she hung up she said, "All right now, girls, get the leftover roast out of the refrigerator and I'll tell you what to do with it." Even though Mama wouldn't let the Relief Society ladies provide our meals, people started coming over the next day and a lot of them brought food. Mama always thanked them, but then she would suggest that they take it to some family in our ward who really needed it. She did it so sweetly that the people went off to deliver their offerings elsewhere, feeling as if that had been their idea in the first place. Some of the people didn't bring food and Sister Frandsen came saying she didn't have anything but herself to bring, but that she wanted to help out by washing dishes or doing some Ironing or something. Mama assured her that the dishes were all washed and that I was the best little ironer she had ever seen, which made me so proud that it was several minutes before I realized I just hated to iron. Sister Frandsen rubbed her hands together as if she wanted to do something with them and 266 said, "But you've done so much for Bud and me and the kids." "Now, that's. All right," Mama said. "I enjoyed every minute of it. You have such a lovely family." Sister Frandsen's tired face lit up, but as she left she looked around to see if there was something she could do. Lots of other people came wanting to do things. When old Mr. Dawson, who isn't even a member of our Church, came over he wanted to cultivate Mama's flower beds, but Mama assured him that Papa needed the exercise. Old Mr. Dawson stood there in his shabby clothes fumbling with his hat. "I sure would like to do something for you," he said softly. '"You're always inviting me to dinner and bringing me cakes and all. You're always giving me _ s0 much." Mama reached out for his hand. "That's all right, Mr. Dawson," she said. "It's more blessed to give than to receive, you know." Mr. Dawson nodded as he shuffled toward the door. "Yeah," he mumbled, "I know." He looked so forlorn that I wanted to do something for him, but I didn't know what. I guess Linda felt the same way because after he left, she said, "Mama, maybe you should have let him do what he wanted." "Oh, no," Mama said. "That poor man has so little strength that I surely don't want him using it all digging my flower beds. And now, girls, I think you'd better run to the market and get the list of things I wrote out." Cissie, who had been playing quietly in a corner with Mrs. Teddy, got up and ran to Mama's side. "I'll take care of you while they're gone," she _ said. "T'd read a story to you if I knew how." "That's sweet of you, darling," Mama said, "but why don't you ask Linda to comb your hair and then they can drop you off to play with Lori when they go to the store." Cissie's bright little — face crumpled as she clutched Mrs. Teddy tighter and turned to go with us, but she didn't say anything. In fact, she hardly said a word the rest of the day. It wasn't until we were all gathered around Mama's sofa bed after family prayer that her face suddenly lost its gloom. "Mama," she said, as if an idea had struck her, "don't you get awful lonesome _ sleeping downstairs alone?" "Yes, Ido,' said Mama. "That's why I'm so glad when morning comes and you all come down to keep me company." Mamma and the Teddy Bear Cissie smiled broadly. "You don't need to be lonesome tonight. I'm going to let you have Mrs. Teddy to sleep with you. She can't do anything; she can't even say anything. Here." But she can be "Why, "how thoughtful of you. Mrs. Teddy would be unhappy away from you. You keep her." Cissie stood looking at Mama for a long moment, her eyes Mama said, But Cissie,"' slowly filling with tears. Surprised, Mama held out her arms, but Cissie turned and ran up the stairs so fast that she stumbled on her long nightgown. Weall watched her go. Nobody spoke until Mama said, "I have a feeling I've done something wrong. I should have let her do something for me." Papa nodded, and we all waited. Mama made a little gesture with her hand. "It's just that I'm so used to doing everything 267 April 1969 for her that I guess I didn't consider she might really want to do something." Papa cleared his throat and said softly, "Perhaps those for whom we do the most have the greatest need to do something in return." Mama thought about that. "You mean like Sister Frandsen and Mr. Dawson and all the rest?" Papa nodded again. Mama looked at her cumbersome cast. "I guess I'm like a surgeon who doesn't know what his patients go through until he has an operation," she said. "T've had such a good life and have been so healthy that I've never realized what it's like to have to be on the receiving end." She smiled at Papa, Linda, and me. "Now, I want all of you to go to bed so that this old dog can lie here and think about learning some new tricks." The first thing Mama did the next morning was ask Cissie if Mrs. Teddy could spend the day on the sofa with her. "And why don't you paint some pictures on my cast?" she said. "Then I can have something pretty to look at." Cissie glowed with satisfaction as she gave up her beloved bear and went for her crayons. Mrs. Frandsen came. Over before we had even finished breakfast, saying that she was going to do the dishes that morning or know the reason why. Mama said she certainly appreciated her doing that, and if she had just a moment maybe she could whip up one of her delicious chocolate cakes. Sister Frandsen said she would 268 be delighted, and furthermore she intended to stay and do our washing since Brother Frandsen was well enough to watch the children for awhile. Old Mr. Dawson was the next to come, bringing with him a small pail of parsnips. "Grew them myself," he said. "Thought you might like to taste them." "Why, Mr. Dawson," Mama said. "I haven't tasted parsnips in years. I'll ask Sister Frandsen if she'll put them in the oven with some spareribs that we have in the freezer, and we'll have them this very day." Mr. Dawson looked pleased. "Grew them myself," he said again. "Can't always find them in the stores nowadays." "You always were the best gardener around," Mama said. "By the way, I wonder if I could get you to trim my rosebushes while you're here. They need doing, and my husband isn't too good at it." "You betcha," Mr. Dawson said happily, "Ill fix them up for you." He whistled as he went out into our yard. We were proud of Mama that day. She just lay there on the sofa bed with her gaily colored cast propped up and Mrs. Teddy by her side, accepting graciously whatever favor anyone wanted to do for her. When Papa came home from work she told him all about it, and then said, "You know, I never thought about it before, but in order for someone to be blessed by giving, someone else has to receive." She laughed a little. "People have been doing so much for us that Linda and Darlene aren't getting any homemaking practice at all." Papa grinned. "Perhaps they're learning a more valuable lesson," he said. "Well, I've certainly learned one," Mama said, "and it's that compassion hasmany facets." She looked at Cissie. "And you know what? It was Mrs. Teddy who taught me." Cissie's little face was proud. Mamma and the Teddy Bear "Mrs. Teddy learned a _ lesson, too,' she piped, "and it's that she isn't nearly as useless as she thought she was." "Youre absolutely right," Mamasaid, picking up Mrs. Teddy and kissing her right on her battered nose. Papa and Linda, Cissie and I laughed, and Mama joined in, but I wondered why there were tears in her eyes. Lael J. Littke, Pasadena, California, winner of the second prize in the short story contest, expresses appreciation for the Relief Society literary contests: ''Thank you again for awarding this honor to me and thank you for sponsoring the annual literary contests which motivate and encourage the women writers of the Church. Although | began writing in my early teens, | didn't sell anything until seven years ago when | sold a story to The Relief Society Magazine, a dear friend indeed. Since then | have sold additional stories to the Magazine and to The Improvement Era, American Girl Magazine, and other publications. Last year | sold my first children's book to Western Publishing Company. Last year, also, my first full-length musical drama ''Blossoms in the Wilderness,'' with music by Gillian Cochrane, was performed by the East Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, on whose board | served as cultural refinement class leader until we moved to Pasadena. My other literary activities include membership in the California Writers Guild, and a writing class at Pasadena City College, taught by our own Helen Hinckley Jones (who appears regularly in The Relief Society Magazine), one of the finest teachers | have ever known. "My family encourages me in my writing. Daughter Lori is now eight years old and my most devoted fan. My husband George, who teaches at California State College, Los Angeles, is my best and most respected critic.'' EASTER Shall my Maker glorify plain and hill, With the lilies of yesteryear, Shall the wind and the wave obey his will, That the harvest shall reappear? Shall the Easter miracle wake the sod In the hush of the holy dawn, And shall | who am imaged after God, Through the ages of time sleep on? Nay, | who have walked and talked with him 'In his gardens at eventide, Shall hearken his voice in the twilight dim, When he calls at the Great Divide. And | shall adore at his throne above, When the portals ajar swing wide, To behold the miracle of his love, When he calls me at Eastertide. —Bertha A. Kleinman 269 m@ This story is not about a woman. It is about a man—me, Ross Anderson—and how I— well, came to "hate the bomb and learn to love people." Speaking as a scientist I must say that it is almost impossible to say at just what point an action begins or ends. So many causes precede, and who knows how many results follow. It may be, therefore, as good a place as any to begin my story at the close of my last day as Assistant Director of Crissin Enterprises, in the Management and Marketing Division. The front door of our home closed behind me, and my wife appeared in the front hall almost simultaneously, as she had done nearly every working. Day for years. "Hello, dear,' Marion's usual bright greeting and kiss went unheeded today. Loose wrappings fell away from the bundle I plunked down on the hall table. "Look at that," I said bitterly, disgustedly. Marion moved the _ tissue paper and picked up the silver pitcher, running her fingers along the beaded edges. She turned the pitcher and, seeing the inscription, spoke the words aloud as she read: "Jo Ross Anderson —1954-1968—With Best Wishes —From his friends in the office." "Isn't it beautiful?" she purred in admiration, completely missing my implication. "It will be just lovely with the tray the children gave us for our anniversary, won't it? Did they have a farewell party for you, too? Oh, Ross, how thoughtful this is." She held the pitcher out in 270 THIRD PRIZE STORY TAI SILVER. PITCHER Grace M. Pratt both her hands, turning it and stroking its shining curves. Then, setting it down, she turned to give me another swift kiss, saying, "They're going to miss you down there, Mr. Anderson." She was apparently oblivious to the fact that I had not added a word to our conversation after my single statement, and that I was stiff and unresponsive in her embrace. I was disappointed in Marion. She is not an unfeeling person; quite the contrary. Usually, she is aware of, and in tune with, my too quick changes of mood. Muttering something about packing my equipment I jerked away and nearly fell over one of the packing crates. I muttered something else then and gave it a kick as I went by. Marion went off to the kitchen. If she didn't remember I had promised to help her take down the things from the high kitchen cupboards, I was not going to mention it now, either. At dinner Marion chatted on about the newspapers and milk, bills paid and yet to pay, and what time the movers were coming. I hardly heard any of it. My whole being was still seething with the let-down of being beaten out of the directorship of Crissin by that glad-hander, Phil Archer. I wondered vaguely how Marion could take it so calmly. She must know it had been my dream, and, yes, my expectation, one day to have a go at running the company my own way. Besides, I knew she and the children loved this town, this house. They had grown up here; this was their home town. I told myself Phil Archer had most likely been underhanded, getting in ahead of me. He always played up to the board members, was on first names basis with some of them. And he'd been farsighted enough, I told myself, viciously, to marry the founder's daughter. True, the old man had sold his interests years before that, but even so—I went on until I began to be ashamed The Silver Pitcher of myself and that only added to my fury and self-pity. Getting back again into a lab turned out to be a joy I had almost forgotten. Under normal circumstances I would have lost myself in the work I was doing, developing new products, improving old ones. But I fed my bitterness, instead. One day, at the end of our first year at the lab, I walked home slowly, turning over in my mind things that had come up in the meetings we had been having with a company team visiting us that week—and with things that had not come up, too. The team's show of confidence in my direction of the lab didn't quite cover an undercurrent of questioning. Turning into our driveway I paused, as I often did, to enjoy and appraise the lawns and front garden. The thought came to me, anyway, here's one area of unqualified improvement and progress. It startled me, that thought. It was a tacit admission that, as Director of Crissin Laboratories, I had not lived up to expectations—my own or the company's. My hand reached out to touch a last, late rose, my eyes wandered over dazzles of chrysanthemums and other autumn flowers, presided over by lilac, willow, olive trees, all in perfect health and order, pruned and clipped precisely. My garden displayed a year's work and devotion— devotion? Or escape? Had the inquiring mind really spent itself on this perfection? "Admit it, Ross," I growled to myself, "you never did enjoy gardening." Was the garden just an excuse, then? The visitors 271 April 1969 at the lab—the ones who knew me—flatly disbelieved I had not used the courtesy golf club membership presented on my arrival in this town. And I had to admit there had been a tone of surprise and criticism on my absence of any work in community service organizations. "I suppose you've taken on a lot of your Church work," someone _ had commented and I had grunted what I hoped was an unintelligible negative. Like the chrysanthemums tumbling out of their bounds onto the lawns, the whole of the past year flooded through my mind in a flash-back of incriminating incidents: my crisp, curt manner with the trainees, outbursts of temper over mistakes, my unapproachableness as the director and neglect of personnel problems. I squirmed inside, recollecting my brusque excuses in response to social invitations, and then the latest rudeness, assigning a junior to conduct the visiting team this past week on the flimsy excuse of having urgent experiments I couldn't leave. The front door of the now familiar home closed behind me and Marion appeared to greet me. I thought she was going to help me take off my coat, but instead her arms slid around me in a tight hug as she said, "Hello, Dear." Then she kissed me twice in succession and said, "How's my handsome husband today?" I got the message and responded with the next step in this private ritual we had, to sort of warn each other of rough sailing ahead. I gave her back her kisses and said, "Madam, your husband is quite well and hopes 272 you are the same." Then, as I slid my coat over the hanger she held, I went on to the next cue: "Have a good day? What's new?" "Oh, nothing much," she replied, too casually. "After Relief Society I stayed in town to shop." "Buy anything for me, Mummy?" I mimicked the children. "Not this time, darling, but I will next time if you're a good boy," she rattled off automatically. Then, slowly, "Actually, I didn't get much shopping done. I had lunch at the Crescent and didn't leave for hours, I guess." My mind reacted sharply to that and I said, hesitantly, "You had lunch at the Crescent Motel dining room and you are telling me you saw Phil Archer there?" "No, Dear, Pat Archer. You'd forgotten to mention she and Phil were in town, but I passed it off all right, I think." "Phil didn't tell me Pat was with him," I said, lamely, not adding that I had avoided any personal talk with Phil. "I guess if some of the wives came I ought to have them, and you, invited to the luncheon tomorrow." I was ashamed and embarrassed at my lack of hospitality to my old friend, now that it came to light. "Well, it's all right, Ross. They're leaving tomorrow night, of course, but, fortunately they are free tonight. They're coming to dinner." "Oh, that's fine," I managed. "What time will they be here?" "Not till a little after seven. They have a distant relative out beyond here a few miles and haven't been able to get a visit until today," Marion replied, trying, I could see, to watch me unobtrusively. "They'll go out there as soon as Phil gets through at the lab and come back here after their visit. You've time to relax with your paper for awhile." "All right," I said, heavily. "Call me if there's anything I can do to help you." "Thanks, all under control." She smiled, and went off to shower and dress. It was a lucky thing the Archers had that relative to visit. If they had come any earlier we never could have made it til] dinnertime. As it was, Pat and Marion carried the conversation, chattering away at woman talk. They always did get on well. After a bit there was a silence and Pat said, "Imagine these two old things being together and not talking shop. We used to never get them to stop." Marion jumped up and said, "I think we can eat now. Ross,! Will you put some records on? Pat, Phil, just down the hall if you want to freshen up." Marion likes a separate dining room. She comes of an old world family that looks on eating as a Special event requiring good food in the right setting. And she loves having guests for meals, a thing she had pretty much had to forego lately. As usual, the dining room was a picture of warmth and homeyness. Soft light glowed from wall sconces and candles, gleaming over the silver, china, and glassware on the perfectly set table centered with a low bowl of our finest mums. The Silver Pitcher You can imagine, then, my surprise and chagrin when Marion Served, as the main course, not one of her exotic specialties, but a plain, everyday thing like pot roast. True, pot roast as only Marion cooks it, richly brown and fragrant with herbs, surrounded by mounds of steaming vegetables in almost natural color; pearly onions, pan browned potatoes, silvery chunks of cabbage, accents of orange and green carrots and peas. But in my present state of mind I could only wonder if she were deliberately, Phil's exclamation cut into my thoughts. "Marion, you doll, you absolute darling," he carolled, "think of her remembering old Phil's weakness. Isn't she marvelous, Pat?" He got up from his chair and Came around the table. Taking the platter from her, he set it ceremoniously in place on the table and gallantly held her chair. "T've often said," Pat laughed, "that it's a good thing Phil met 273 April 1969 me before he met Marion's pot roast. I wouldn't have had a chance." "Ah, but I did meet the pot roast first, my love, only Ross here was ahead of me then, too. Remember that time, Ross? My first day at Crissin, young man on his first real job, scared, lonely, so you took me home to supper. I was so sick of bachelor cooking—and so broke—I didn't care what the guy's wife would think. But I will never forget the aroma as that pot roast was served—ah, heavenly. What a feast I had." He sat back smiling at the memory and then went on, "What is more, I can recall every detail of the four—no, five—times I have enjoyed Marion's pot roast since." The restraint of the evening vanished as Phil accompanied our eating with his hilarious way of telling a story. We heard every detail, all right, and what had led up to, away from, and from side to side of those particular events. This was more like the breezy Phil Archer of old, taking over every occasion in his own jovial way. And yet I had this feeling he was like a 274 boy let out for recess, whooping and hollering as much as he could before he'd have to go inside again. We ate up all the hot rolls and Marion and I pushed back our chairs at the same time to get more. She took the basket, saying to me, "Would you refill the glasses while I get the rolls? There's ice water ready in the frig." I opened the refrigerator and reached in for—there was the silver pitcher, filled with water, ready for use. I wasn't prepared for that. Once again I wondered at Marion's choice. If she hadn't been right there, I could have pretended to make a mistake and use our old glass pitcher. I had to use the silver pitcher, but I practically covered it with a napkin to catch drips. Then I filled Pat's glass under cover of conversation. But when I reached past Phil's shoulder he noticed the pitcher at once. "The silver pitcher," he said, musingly, taking it from my hand, "the farewell gift to Mr. Ross Anderson." An odd, waiting silence fell as he ran his finger along the lettering, reading it aloud as Marion had that first day. The room was stifling with a sudden kind of apprehension I was aware the rest of us felt. We waited for what was to come. There was something in Phil's tone that made you know a dam _ was about to burst. "Green with envy," Phil murmured to himself, then, "did you know that, old friend? That I was green with envy of you that day? Ross Anderson, the successful man the one expected to take over, well-liked, established. I knew I could never reach your heights. And then," he went on as if something forced it out of him, "to have you get the post I wanted. I guess I had some kind of a kid dream of being the mysterious, fascinating scientist, hovering over bubbling retorts, bringing forth earth-shaking discoveries and life-saving inventions. Don't laugh. I realized I wasn't the type after I got into the swing of the marketing end of it. I've loved that. It's where I belong, where I'm pretty darn good or could be.... Somehow, lately I've had the feeling the board is taking a long hard look at my division. I was hoping we would find something in this lab tour... Something new to give us a lift. I have some ideas I've been saving for just the right product, the right time if only." His voice just trailed off. I glanced uneasily at Marion, standing there with the basket of rolls cooling in her hand. On her lips and in her eyes was a small smile that husbands see sometimes, an asking-telling-waiting look. In that glance I saw that she had known all along how I'd The Silver Pitcher felt about the job and that Pat had told her about Phil. I felt as if my skin had shrunk until I was being constricted by the small man I had become. I wanted to get out of that little man. He was making me old and sick. I clasped my hand over Phil's on the handle of the silver pitcher and gently lifted it away to fill his glass. I was glad, in a way, to have them see my hand was a bit shaky. "Can you get down to the lab early tomorrow morning, Phil?" I asked. "I've been working on something that might be what you are looking for. With both of us putting our great brains to work on it, we ought to come up with something pretty good." I saw the look that flashed between Pat and Marion. "And after the luncheon," I went on, "let's you and I knock off work, get out of the lab, and find out what kind of golf course they have in this town." The little man split open and I stepped out, finding the world interesting and full of promise, after all. The look I saw then in Marion's eyes was for myself alone. Grace Madsen Pratt, Merced, California, winner of the third prize in the story contest, is an author new to the pages of The Relief Society Magazine. By way of introduction, she writes: "My literary history is less fact than fancy. My father was known as a great campfire storyteller, and my mother, Abbie R. Madsen, wrote reams of poems, many of them published in The Relief Society Magazine. Mother urged me to write, and | jotted down bits and pieces as our six children grew up. | really learned the anatomy of a story in a class under a Mrs. White, in Perth, Australia, and have written three stories: ''The Silver Pitcher,'' ''The Little White Birds of Olotele,'' for The Children's Friend, and one other children's story, now out looking for a publisher. "One day | was casting about for a story idea, and while polishing a silver pitcher, inscribed to our landlord, my mind began to work on the idea of the inscription and the pitcher. The day before we moved from Melbourne, | worked over and retyped my story." 275 EDITORIAL, Truth Abidetp Fo rever @ As one reads a ontemplates the 4 Prophet Whether € lived in anted luvian times or is Ving today, the Ords of UNSe| exhortation, an nlightenment have a Constant application for People iVing in all dispensations Customs 4Nd livin Nditions hange, but the laws 80vernin 800d and Vil, Sorr JOY, remaj Constant How differe t were th Primitive SUrrounding f the Isra lites When the Ten Com dmen Were s Oken, INcludin the MMandment 'Honour thy f ther Nd thy Mother __;, fro thos Conditions Sur rounding the People jn the days of Pa when Wrote, "But if an Provide not for hi Own, and SP€cially for those of h n house, he ath enied ¢ faith, d Orse th an infide| ] living Custo and CONdition yet stil| the law Ind a Re Ppeasement for a ading the Words of » and Courage. As e, Moreover, She l es to ] trial to her. She searched the scriptures but did not find a comparable situation to give her 4 satisfying answer tO guide oF comfort her. Shortly thereafter she was standing among some Church \eaders waiting to 8° into a meeting. During the conversation, one leader, an apostle, happened to relate an experience and its outcome, which was the answet to this mother's silent, anguished question. This truth came not from the printed page of truth but from the lips of a living prophet. "Search and ye shall find." Her anguish was given 4a beacon of hope. Truth remains constant, as likewise do the basic characteristics of man. The yearning of Hannah for a child Is echoed in the hearts of married women today. The sword which pierced the soul of Mary must have brought a presagement of foreboding to her throughout the life of her Son, which ts mirrored In the hearts of mothers today Joy comes to women who seek sacred words of truth to uplift, comfort, and inspire them, words that encompass experiences of mankind from the beginning—words of truth that never change. "Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and | will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for | am meek and lowly For a woman who searches out truth in inspired writings and spoken words, her way will be lighted and her burdens become lightened. Anna B. Hart Afton W. Hunt Belva B. Ashton Alice C. Smith Edith S. Elliott Elsa T. Peterson Zola J. McGhie Lucile P. Peterson Florence J. Madsen Fanny S. Kienitz Oa J. Cannon Elaine B. Curtis Leone G. Layton Elizabeth B. Winters Lila B. Walch Zelma R. West Blanche B. Stoddard Jennie R. Scott Lenore C. Gundersen Leanor J. Brown Aleine M. Youns Alice L. Wilkinson Marjorie CPingree Reba C. Aldous Alberta H. Christensen irene W. Buehner Darlene C. Dedekind Luella W. Finlinson Mildred B. Eyring irene C. Lloyd Edythe K. Watson Norma B. Ashton Edith P. Backman Hazel S. Love Elien N. Barnes Mayola R. Miltenberger Winniefred S. Manwaring Fawn H. Sharp Kathryn S. Gilbert Maurine M. Haycock Elna P. Haymond Celestia J. Taylor Verda F. Burton Mary R. Young Anne R. Gledhill Myrtle R. Olson ——— 277 The American Cancer Society Inc. Research MH Education MH Service There will be 600,000 new cases of cancer in the United States this year, and half of them can be cured by early diagnosis and proper treatment. According to the American Cancer Society, only about 200,000 of these will be saved. To help more—give more. Help yourself with a check-up and help others with a check. The Society needs the help of all Americans in its continuing war against cancer. It has three great shining swords to fight cancer: RESEARCH * EDUCATION * SERVICE.* New drugs have brought added months and years to leukemia patients. Cancer of the colon and rectum is the most frequent internal cancer among both men and women in the United States. Nearly three out of four patients might be saved from this cancer with early diagnosis and proper treatment. Safeguards against this type of cancer are an annual ''procto'' examination, especially for people over forty, and a knowledge of cancer's warning signals. In America 25,000 people have lost their voices to larynx cancer, and must breathe through a permanent opening in the throat. Early detection could have prevented much of this tragedy. The Pap test can detect uterine cancer when it is practically 100 per cent curable. A Pap test is a lifesaver. Research has helped raise the cancer survival rate from one in five thirty years ago to the present rate of one in three. Have an annual check-up and watch for the seven warning signals: Unusual bleeding or discharge A lump or thickening in the breast or elsewhere A sore that does not heal. Change in bowel or bladder habits Hoarseness or cough Indigestion or difficulty in swallowing Change in size or color of a wart or mole _ HELP THE AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY'S PROGRAMS OF RESEARCH! THE LIFE YOU SAVE MAY BE YOUR OWN. NOAPWNE 278 BN Woman's Ramona W. Cannon Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, also President, National Council of Women of the United States, was honored in Washington, D. C. In January 1969 by — Mrs. Robert Law Bacon, a prominent Washingtonian. Wives of Cabinet members, wives of several members of Congress, women newly appointed to high governmental posts, wives of many foreign ambassadors, women community and social leaders, representatives of the International Council of Women both from foreign countries and the United States, were invited to Mrs. Bacon's home to meet Mrs. Spafford who assumed her post as President of the National Council of Women of the United States in October. Two Latter-day Saint women are wives of members of President Richard M. Nixon's cabinet: Lenora Bingham Kennedy, wife of David M. Kennedy, Secretary of the Treasury, and Lenore La Fount Romney, wife of George Romney, former governor of Michigan and now Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Mrs. Kennedy, born in Ogden, grew up there with her future husband. Mother of four daughters, she moved to Illinois, with her family in 1946, where she became a member of the Women's Board of the University of Chicago. She has been very active in genealogical research, also in both the Relief Society and the Mutual Improvement Association programs. Mrs. Romney, born in Salt Lake City, attended George Washington University while her father was a member of the National Radio Commission (Predecessor of the Federal Communications Commission), then was a student at the American Laboratory School of the Theater in New York City. For a time she was a moving picture actress with Metro-Goldwin-Mayer. Married in 1931, she is the mother of two sons and two daughters. She has been an active campaigner with her husband in his political life, and was highly praised as a speaker by the national press. She has been a very active and capable worker in the Church. Mrs. Patricia Nixon looked very earnest as she held two family Bibles, one atop the other, upon which her husband, Richard M. Nixon, swore the inaugural oath of office as President of the United States on January 20, 1969. Anna Moffo, Metropolitan Opera and La Scala coloratura soprano, was soloist at the Inaugural Concert, held at Constitution Hall, January 19, at which the Tabernacle Choir performed. Miss Moffo sang three numbers from Broadway American musicals. Peggy Fleming, the exquisite figure-skating champion who was the only United States gold medal winner at the Winter Olympics in 1968, was named Female Athlete of the year on January 24 by the annual Associated Press Poll. A very close runner-up was swimming champion, Debbie Meyer. Debbie Meyer, Sixteen-year-old triple gold medal winner for swimming at the Summer Olympics 1968, last January became the fourth female in thirty-nine years to win the Sullivan Award, given annually by the Amateur Athletic Union to the outstanding amateur athlete in the United States. She came out barely ahead of two famous men athletes. Voting were sports writers, broadcasters, amateur athletic union officials, and amateur sportsmen. 279 inside and out TRUST Trust. Is a fr we Word f ¢ vw mortals And passion 3 brilliant stone (0 Crack it on. 2 But lOVe, true love is the velvet ¢ love That irhac it Aacits frist defore. It sone —Gay N Blan: Nara ng. Ce it was a ks to complete. Jy. Home life e of electrical servants one in only 4 father disHousecleaning can ask requiring pulled apalt, Every room ted. Today: in many areas, ts, housecleanin the homemaker e cleaning. Simplifying A. Arrange an ne or outside disturbance n cleaning B. Concentrate fe) disarray: 281 i Photo by Ward Linton each day: April 1969 C. Have all needed equipment available and in good working order. Use proper equipment. Don't endanger your life or limbs by standing on a chair or a table when a stepladder should be used. Long-handled brushes are available which can help avoid excessive stretching, straining, reaching or bending. D. Keep your cleaning material together in a carry-all container, as illustrated. These are available at some dairies and markets for a nominal fee. They may be covered with contact paper, leftover walltex, or painted. If these cartons are not available, a basket with a handle will serve just as well. Provide the carryall with: 1. Window cleaner. Fill a squirt bottle Y, full of sudsy ammonia, fill remainder with water. Excellent for cleaning windows. Badly soiled outside windows should be washed first with detergent, then use the ammonia solution. Dry with soft lintless cloth (a piece of old sheet is excellent), crumpled newspapers work well, or a damp chamois. Squirt bottle containing cleaning solution and water. Brushes of different varieties. Stiff toothbrushes are excellent for small areas and hard to reach crevices (around wash basin, sinks, etc.). 4. Wax and polish. 5. Cleaning agents: For brass, bathroom fixtures, doorknobs, tile, or linoleum. (Children's old white socks, slit up one side to provide a larger cleaning area, are good for applying wax and polish. Plenty of clean, absorbent soft cloths may be accumulated throughout the year for special uses.) E. Carefully follow the instructions on all cleaning agents. Manufacturer research provides the best methods for use. Don't use more than the directions specify or you may damage your woodwork, walls, carpets, or upholstery. Be careful about combining products, as some combinations can be dangerous. F. Change cleaning water frequently, and wash lower part of walls first, so that rivulets of water running down walls will pass through clean areas and not leave streaks. G. Take time to rest occasionally. Housecleaning can be very tiring. You can accomplish more if you do not let fatigue overtake you. Sit down on the floor, don't bend, when cleaning low cupboards or polishing furniture legs, etc. H. Many of the best housekeepers I know find it much easier to include, as part of their weekly cleaning, tasks which would generally be included in general housecleaning; such as cleaning and rearranging cupboards, drawers, etc. A stormy day when one is confined to the home is a perfect time for doing such jobs. This eliminates time-consuming small tasks at housecleaning time. | I. Check your home for any needed repairs that might prove dangerous— frayed rugs, damaged light cords, protruding nails, etc. J. Use rubber gloves whenever possible. Strong cleaning agents can play havoc with hand skin. Keep a good hand lotion or cream in readiness at all times. The following is an excellent home recipe for hand lotion and will help to remove chap and soreness: 2 tbsp. Flax seeds | Boil flax seeds and water down to one pint and strain 1 qt. Water J through a fine sieve. Let cool. Add glycerine, bay rum, and 4 oz. Pure glycerine | pure rose water and beat with an egg beater until thoroughly 3 oz. Bay rum [ combined. Makes one quart. Put in bottles and store in 3 0z. Pure rose water f cool place. What is so inviting as a sparkling clean house where even the air seems fresh, clean, and invigorating! Home can indeed become the best loved place of all, when the project—housecleaning—is completed and all is bright, shiny, and clean, with a place for everything and everything once again in its place. 282 RECIPES from NEW ZEALAND Anna Molenaar Napier, New Zealand LEMON MERINGUE PIE 3 tbsp. Cornflour (corn starch) 1 tbsp. Butter 2 or 3 egg yolks 2%, c. Water lV, c. Sugar grated rind and juice of 2 lemons Bring water, sugar, lemon rind, and butter to a boil. Blend cornflour with cold water and boil together 5 minutes. Remove from heat, cool, and add lemon juice and beaten egg yolks. Bake flaky pastry shell at 350° for 1 hour. Pour in lemon mix and pile meringue on top. Meringue: Beat whites of 2 or 3 eggs until stiff and add 4 tbsp. Sugar and 2 tbsp. Coconut. Place pie back in oven at low heat and leave until golden brown. PAVLOVA CAKE 4 to 5 egg whites vanilla essence 1, c. Caster sugar (fine) 2 tsp. Cornflour (corn starch) 1 tsp. Vinegar 3 tbsp. Cold water pinch of salt Beat whites very stiff and add water. Add sugar, beating gradually but well. Mix or fold in cornflour, salt, vanilla, and vinegar. Pile onto a waxed paper wax side up and bake at 250° for 1¥, hours. Turn onto a Pavlova dish or large round platter, fill with whipped cream, and top with drained peaches, jelly, or any type of fruit. SNOW PUDDING 1 tbsp. Gelatin. 3 egg whites Yc. Boiling water rind and juice of one lemon Yc. Cold water ', tsp. Vanilla 2 tbsp. Sugar Dissolve gelatin in boiling water, add cold water, sugar, and stiffly beaten egg whites, and vanilla. Beat until mixture begins to set. Pour onto wax paper, wax side up. Decorate as for Pavalova. 283 Ada Stonely Yates @ The day was w angry, and fry dusting, cooking, Preparing for the 8randchildren. My ¢;. My elghty-year-old Step, like a little. H band, John, had Tug, tracked dj Wipes his feet," I had ars rang, and the last "She is laring TV and kissed he asked "For a bla Michele Bartmess as told by Annette Giles ~ Synopsis: Jennifer Miles has returned from Houston, where she stayed until her mother underwent successful heart surgery. She returns home to assist in caring for her mother and the three Miles sons, ages seventeen, fifteen, and twelve. She is attracted to Steve Rey, the son of her mother's close friend, but Jim Long, whom she met in Houston, is competing for her attentions. A phone call in the dead of the night summons the family to the hospital where her mother has been put due to complications. M After the first tears at the shock of losing her mother, Jennifer's composure was marvelous, and beneficial to the rest of the family. She set about the tasks before her with serenity and a calmness that, at times, amazed even herself. She had been grateful to have Bea there for those first difficult weeks. The older woman's quiet, unobtrusive assistance and compassionate understanding were 286 UT Chapter 6 most welcome, and aided Jennifer in getting her bearings for the months ahead. By the time Bea returned to Houston, Jennifer was in firm control. It was a bright day in late September. Jennifer stepped outside for a breath of air. It was autumn. That had been _ her mother's favorite time of year. The valley lay clothed in colorful beauty, and harvest time was near. The air was no _ longer heavy with the stifling heat of summer, nor had the nip of winter begun to appear. It was a pleasant time. For more than a month, Jennifer had been manager of the household. She was so grateful that her mother had seen fit to prepare her for this, even though, at the time, she had not known the preparation process was taking place gradually and surely. She was glad that she remembered so many of the talks she had had with her mother during those last months. She could better understand the personalities and needs of her father and the boys, because her mother had given her so much insight and meaningful advice on how to cope with certain situations. She had always said to welcome the task that takes you beyond yourself, and now Jennifer knew that this was such a task. She sighed very deeply. The set of her jaw was solid. There was a job that must be done, and it was her responsibility. The decisions she made now, and the methods she used in handling the situations that were bound to arise, would have a profound effect on her three brothers, even upon their eternal progression. She knew that it was only a matter of time before the deep shock of their mother's death wore off, and that their reverence would be replaced by normalcy, that her authority would be challenged. Common _ sense told her that each of them had a mind of his own, and none of them was perfect. Fortunately, they had been well brought up, but the removal of their mother's influence from their lives would leave a void, and they would try their wings, and there would be problems to solve for life was full of challenges, anyway, she thought. In her new role as homemaker for the family, Jennifer had little time to ponder her own future. She had a responsibility to fulfill, and she knew that she had been guided toward this. Welcome the Task There was little romance in her relationship with Steve at this time, but he had been a tremendous help to her. The thing which disturbed Jennifer most was that her father seemed lost and totally disinterested in what was going on about him. He barely noticed that the meals she prepared were nutritious and attractively presented, or that the house was as spotless and beautiful as it had ever been. But far more serious was the fact that he took no interest in the boys, who needed him now more than ever. This was Dave's important senior year, and as captain of the football team, he was an important man about the school, and as small towns go, he was somewhat of a hero to many people. He was beginning to take a real interest in girls, and needed a man's advice and encouragement. Jennifer was unable to fill the role of both mother and father. It was at this point Steve came to her rescue. Jennifer was sitting on the front porch trying to plan the coming week's menu, but lost in her own thoughts. "Why so solemn, Jenny?" he asked, seating himself on the step beside her. "Oh, Steve," she said, "I just don't know what to do. Dad doesn't seem to take any interest in what's going on around here, and the boys need him. I can't seem to reach him at all." "He's really lost without your mother, isn't he?" "Yes, and I knew he would be, but I can't bear to see the boys suffer this way, too. I can under- 287 April 1969 stand how it is for Dad, but I don't think I can explain it to them, for they've lost their mother, who gave them every ounce of love she had, and it can't be replaced." "Is there a specific problem right now?" Steve asked. "Well, nothing has been said, but I can sense that Dave feels as though he may as well not even try. It was Dad who interested him in football. I know something about the game, but not enough to be anything but enthusiastic. He wants to discuss plays and such, and Pete and Sam just don't know enough about it, and all Dad gives him is vague attention." "There I can be of some help," Steve said rising. "Is he in the house?" Jennifer nodded and watched him disappear. She hated to burden Steve with all her problems, but he was always helpful. With Jim, she could relax and enjoy an evening and forget about the pressures at home, but Steve always took action, and she always felt free to tell him about the latest uproar in the family. She wondered about her feelings for the two young men. She depended heavily upon Steve, and his coming over several times a week, if only briefly, to be of help or keep her company. Occasionally, they would go someplace. If he knew about Jim, he said nothing, although he had been over several times when she was out with Jim. Jim had the uncanny knack for making her laugh. He was brilliant both in his studies and his handling of people. He would make a fine lawyer, she thought. 288 Nothing would stand in the way of his success, and he had his future mapped out nearly to the finest detail. Several times he had hinted that Jennifer could share in that future, but she had not encouraged such conversation, for her father and her brothers were her major concern for the time being. She thought about the night of his fraternity party. It had been a costume affair, and Jim had suggested they go as Raggedy Ann and Raggedy Andy. In the little spare time she could muster between the study load she was carrying, the housework, and her Church obligations, she had made them costumes that had turned out, even she admitted, extremely well. She had been somewhat hesitant when Jim suggested in the middle of the party that they go to the student union center to go bowling. She had told him how embarrassing it would be to have people staring at them. "Nonsense," he insisted. "It's Halloween night, what could be more perfect? We could go trick or treating, if you would rather." Another couple had joined in, and they had indeed gone trick or treating around the other sorority and fraternity houses. Even Jennifer admitted that it had been fun. However, Jim still insisted that they go bowling afterwards, and the other couple joined them. After a while Jennifer forgot everything but the good time she was having. She could momentarily forget that Dave's homecoming game was to be soon, and that his father might not attend. She could forget about the test that she must take Monday, and must pass well above average to qualify for student teaching. There were many things she could forget in that moment of merriment. On the way home they were still in a gay mood. Jim glanced at her and commented, "Jenny, you need to laugh like this more often, you let things bother you too much." "What do you mean, Jim?" "You worry too much about your brothers and your father, you've got to think of yourself, too, you know." "Oh, Jim," she insisted, "I do. And I'm finishing school as I have always wanted to. They are all wonderful about helping me." "T still think you work too hard. I wish I could think of a way to make it easier. You stick with me, honey, and you'll never want for anything. As soon as I get my degree, I'll have it made." Jennifer didn't like talk like this. For several weeks he had been putting on gentle pressure, and dropping little hints she wasn't ready for. Whenever Steve was around the house when Jim came, he started out the evening just a little sullen, yet he had known better than to demand that she not allow Steve to come. For this she was grateful, for she did enjoy Jim's company, but she enjoyed Steve's help and companionship also. "Look Jim, a shooting star." "Make a wish, Jenny." "T wish I didn't have to study for a test tomorrow, and that you would turn up the radio just a little, I love that song." A flash of lightning interrupted her reminiscing. She so hoped Welcome the Task that it wouldn't rain for Dave's game tomorrow. Her father wouldn't be home but Steve was taking his mother, Jennifer, Pete, and Sam over to Provo. It could be the deciding factor in the State championship. ' Jennifer sighed and went back to her menu planning. It was hard to plan around the likes and dislikes of the three boys, especially Sam. She knew that her mother made them eat what was placed before them, and measured dessert portions by the size of vegetable portions, but she had tried to avoid confrontations by cooking what everyone liked. She knew that sooner or later, however, an issue was bound to come up. She had attempted to discuss household budgeting with her father, but he had merely told her to use what she needed, for there was plenty. Jennifer, frugal by nature, had put herself on a budget that would challenge her creativity somewhat. Just as she finished the shopping list, Steve returned. "I think I helped a little, Jenny. But you're right. He has college and a mission facing him very soon, and he needs to share his success and failures with someone." "T guess I am just going to have to try harder," she sighed wearily. "You try too hard already, Jenny," Steve said, gently placing an arm about her shoulder. "I wish I could help you more." "You've helped me more than you'll ever know, Steve, and I appreciate it so much." She was amazed to find tears very near the surface. 289 April 1969 Steve sensed this and pulled her closer, his jaw tightening noticeably. He said nothing as Jennifer shed the tears that had been locked away for so long. Wordlessly he handed her a handkerchief. When, at last, she had regained her self-control, she looked up at him. His eyes were a steely gray and there was a faraway look in them. "I'm sorry, Steve, I guess I'm just tired." "Don't be sorry, Jenny," he said tenderly. "Don't ever be sorry for that." He kissed her gently and bade her farewell, turning to wave as he closed the gate. "See you tomorrow," he called softly. Jennifer found the days becoming increasingly more difficult. She continued with the typing for Dr. Moran, although at times it was a toilsome task to keep up with the housework, schoolwork, and the typing. "T declare," she told Nyta Rey one afternoon over a glass of tart lemonade, "I didn't realize those boys owned so many shirts and trousers." "You really should let me help you, Jenny, I don't keep too busy with just Steve and myself." Jennifer smiled. "You've helped in sO many ways as it is. No, I can handle this ironing. It was never one of my favorite tasks, but I'm learning to like it more and more. I'm just glad they aren't girls." "Well, just this little piece of advice then. You make certain that those boys can at least iron a shirt passably before you send them out to the mission field." "Oh, I will Sister Rey." | Nyta was about to leave. 290 "Don't you think it is time you called me _ something besides Sister Rey?" she asked. "T']l try to remember, it's hard after so long," Jennifer smiled, liking Steve's mother more each day. "Well, call me Nyta, anyway. Although I would like it to be Mom someday." Jennifer picked up the meaning of this pointed remark and blushed. She wondered if any remarks like that were made to Steve, and what his reactions were, probably a loving brush-off, she guessed. She wished she didn't blush so much when someone suggested that she might like to become Mrs. Rey. It never embarrassed her when Pete asked if she was really going to marry that "Long fellow," but when he reminded her that Steve was a pretty terrific fellow, she could feel the redness creep into her cheeks. Then Sam would call everyone's attention to the fact that Jennifer was blushing, and she would turn redder and redder. She wouldn't be surprised if the entire neighborhood knew the goings on of the Miles household, at least when Sam commented upon anything. She was surprised one evening when Dave came in to give a helping hand with the dishes. "Why thank you," she said, genuinely pleased. He had been so quiet lately that she was worried about him. He began somewhat awkwardly. "I know Dad will be out of town again next week, but on Thursday we're having this play at school, and I have this date with Kathy—you don't know her," he added hastily. Jennifer was interested. "And you need some money or my ear?" "Oh, no, it's not that. I still have plenty of the money I saved from my job for spending, and as soon as football season is over I'll be working Saturdays again." Jennifer looked at his handsome face. It was flushed. She was very certain that he was going to ask a favor of her, but what, she had no idea. "Well, uh," he began again. "T_well, I was wondering if you would mind if she came over to dinner that night. I want you to meet her and all," he rushed on. "Why, Dave, I would be delighted to have her come. We all would," she added. "It's nice that you want us to meet her. I'm only sorry Dad can't be here." Dave ducked his head and mumbled, "Don't be, it doesn't matter to him anyway." Jennifer knew that this could not go on. She vowed that she Welcome the Task was going to have a talk with her father. It had been more than three months now, and his sons needed him, and so did she. Her angry thoughts were interrupted by Dave. "Another thing. Do you think you could invite Steve, or that other fellow if you'd rather, then it wouldn't look like she was on display or something?" Jennifer smiled. "Of course. And how about if we invite Nyta that night. It might be nice to have an adult around." Jennifer began mentally to plan what she would serve. Once more Dave interrupted. "Would you talk to Sam and keep him from making comments?" Jennifer promised, resisting the temptation to remind him of the many times he had embarrassed her in front of a young man. She didn't wish to run the risk of having him cut himself off again, now that an opening had been made. Jennifer was pleasantly surprised to find her father willing to listen and most cooperative as she approached him nervously about the family problem of which he was so much a part. When she told him about the dinner, he offered to cut the trip short and be home that evening. He would indeed put forth more effort on behalf of his family, he promised. Jennifer wished that she had approached him earlier, he was so cooperative. It made her heart lighter to think that things were really improving around the house. It was a good feeling. (To be continued) 291 292 pet EEE shear We ys 'NN ae 1968 a ¥ Magazine Honor Roll 3% Ay Counselor Marianne C. Sharp i! "223355, as os "PORT" @ The 13,513 increase in the number of Relief Society Magazine subscriptions in English as of August 31, 1968 over August 31, 1967, testifies to the faithful devoted services of stake and ward Magazine representatives working under the inspired leadership of their respective presidencies. The General Board seeks to include features in the Magazine which will appeal to Latter-day Saint women of different ages living in different countries under differing conditions. It is interesting and helpful for the editorial department to receive comments from women in different countries, even though not all of them can find space in the ''From Near and Far'' department. In planning future issues their suggestions are taken into consideration as the space in the Magazine allows. One sister writes she is not interested in the fiction but enjoys the lessons. Others write in goodly number expressing thanks for the family situations found in the short stories saying that solutions for their own problems were suggested through the fictionalized situations. A young mother wishes to have help given her in rearing her young family. A sister especially appreciates the recipes, and many express thanks for the handicraft instruction articles. Others tell of their delight in the four-color sections (run four times a year) and tell of framing the art reproductions. The mail gives a cross-section of the talents and interests of Latter-day Saint women. Some write expressing disappointment at missing an issue because the subscription renewal was not received in time. It is hoped that Magazines which expire in June and July will be renewed promptly by May 1 and June 1, respectively, so no issues of the lessons will be lost, since back numbers cannot be supplied. The lessons for October in the Northern Hemisphere and the following March for the Southern Hemisphere begin in the July issue with the previews found in the June issue. The General Board is doing all in its power to maintain the subscription price at $2 which has been in effect since November 1957. It seeks to be provident in all phases of publishing the Magazine, and for that reason orders only the number of Magazines for which there are paid subscriptions. Since all costs have gone up in the past eleven years, with no increase in subscription price, and since the advertisments are held to a minimum, it is essential that the increase in subscriptions continue satisfactorily. The calling of a Magazine representative is therefore one of importance, needing a spirit of dedication. The General Board expresses appreciation to the dedicated Magazine representatives, to their presidencies, and to all Latter-day Saint women who are subscribers to The Relief Society Magazine. It is hoped that bound volumes are being preserved in ward and stake libraries for future reference and historical value. For the twenty-third year South Los Angeles Stake leads the Church in having the highest per cent of subscriptions, with 192 per cent. The highest mission award goes to Western States, with 121 per cent. The missions are to be especially commended in that nine had 100 per cent and over. Glendale Stake had the highest number of subscriptions, with 1456, and the East Central States Mission had the highest for the missions_1504 subscriptions. There were 260 stakes over 100 per cent in 1968, an increase of 80 over the previous year. In 88 stakes, moreover, every ward was 100 per cent and over. The total subscriptions, in English, for 1968 were 277,386. Spanish-speaking sisters in the United States, Mexico, and Central and South America rejoice in the opportunity of having the contents of The Relief Society Magazine available to them in Spanish. The circulation of the Spanish edition has reached 6000, making a grand total of 283,386 for The Relief Society Magazine in both languages. April 1969 293 STAKE WARD MISSION MISSION DISTRICT MISSION BRANCH Honors for Highest Rating South Los Angeles (California) 192% Magazine Representative—Dona Osborn Athens Ward, Atlanta Stake (Georgia) 257% Magazine Representative—Margot N. Johnson Western States—121% Magazine Representative—Arline M. Scott Kentucky West District, East Central States Mission 204% Magazine Representative—Lucille Renfro Hopkinsville Branch, Kentucky West District East Central States Mission 409% Magazine Representative—Shirley Bromley TEN HIGHEST PERCENTAGES IN STAKES 192 South Los Angeles -—-. Dona Osborn 181 Huntington Park — _-- Joy B. Snell 141 East Rigby - -.-Norma Rounds 139 Inglewood..--_--~- Edith Pew 139 Long Beach _____--Erma Halls 139 Phoenix West _.___-Rae D. Levie 134 Glendale _-.__.__-~-Dorotha M. Beers 134 Mojave ______---_-~-Doris J. McDaniel 133 Los Angeles _._._--Nola Whipple 132 San Fernando _._---Betty M. Read ELEVEN HIGHEST PERCENTAGES IN MISSIONS 121 Western States __ ---Arline M. Scott 113 North Central States.. Marguerite J. Satterfield 110 Alaskan-Canadian _ _ ~~ Erma T. Hinckley *109 California..-.-__-..-~-Ardella Davey 106 West Central States _.. Nancy L. Jenkins 105 Cumorah __.------Mary S. Bankhead 101 Southern Australian Karlyne C. Russon 100 New England. ------Jeanne Dunn 100 Florida -~_ -.-_~-Marva S. Rudd 98 Central States ___ _--Lola R. West 98 Northern States _ _—_— —Artemisia H. Henderson *Limited Representation (One district only) Magazine Honor Roll for 1968 rbd Tp 6 es ¢, \ i». Cc \ ene U be ¢ ¢ © — =e 294 TEN STAKES WITH HIGHEST NUMBER OF SUBSCRIPTIONS TEN MISSIONS WITH HIGHEST NUMBER OF SUBSCRIPTIONS 1456 Glendale 1174 East Cache 1504 East Central States 631 Central States 1366 Mesa 1143 Rigby 916 Eastern Atlantic States 604 Northwestern States 1307 South Los Angeles 1134 San Fernando 758 Florida 581 Northern States 1249 Huntington Park, 1124 Ensign 749 North Central States 561 New England 1201 Timpanogos 1110 Bonneville 722 Alaskan-Canadian 550 West Central States STAKES IN WHICH ALL WARDS RECEIVED 100% OR OVER Pocatello __-- --Alice Brandt Pomona -----Nora R. Perdue Provo _.._..__.-.---.-LaRue B. Davies Redding -.--.-Amelia Daniels Reseda._______~-Bonnie Parry Rexburg -.-Mary K. Welker Riverdale _-______~-Perneica D. Fiet Mey _._._ _. Dorothy F. Oleson Roy North __.._..-Afton A. Johnson St. Joseph ___..__-Genevieve Woods San Diego East _~~-- Pearl McCaleb San Diego South ~ _ -— Isabell Allphin San Fernando __—_-~-Betty M. Read Santa Rosa_.-_---Jean Porter Seattle..______-Virginia D. Miller Sevier _- _.__-Manetta H Alameda.__ ---Eloise M. Wyrouck Ammon _ ----Ruth T. Milton Ashley. -.---Alice T. Wall Bannock __..__..-Clara C. Christensen Bear River _- -.-Melba J. Capener Boise _._ ---Genevieve Creswell Bonneville __--June W. Kasteler Bountiful South —- ~ _ ~ Colleen Poulsen Box Elder _-__ __ -Cleo N. Dixon Brigham City __.-- -Hilda R. Forrest Burbank _.__._--Virginia W. Starke Burley _.__. Ruth S. Lyons Canoga Park _. _. _ » Dorotha Means Cedar West ______-Hazel B. Davies Covina _~._.__..-- Colleen C. Boman Denver West - - - - - -Phyllis Benfell _ SS ee Inglewood __-.---Edith Pew Kolob __.__.-----Verla B. Roundy Las Vegas ____---Fannie H. Bloxham Las Vegas Central.. - Lily M. Childers Las Vegas North. - - - Vaun S. Klingonsmith Long Beach ___---Erma Halls Malad _-___..----Gloria R. Gleed Marin -_-.-.--~----Mary Jewel Vollentine Mesa _._-_.~-----Ethelyn J. Madsen Mill Creek _~.- ~~~Martha J. H. Matern Minidoka._..----Gladys V. Broadhead Modesto __.-----Gaylene Beier Mojave _._-------Doris J. McDaniel Monument Park _ ~~. Ruth B. Parkinson Mount Logan _ _.. - Elaine D. Passey ——Fern H. Ewer April 1969 296 115 115 115 115 115 115 115 115 115 114 114 114 114 114 114 114 114 114 114 114 113 113 113 113 113 113 113 113 113 113 112 112 112 Edmonton Taylor North Tooele Denver West Napa Virginia Reseda Cumorah Redondo Granite Scottsdale New Jersey Whittier Mount Ogden Oquirrh East Nyssa Fullerton San Luis Obispo East Jordan Taylorsville West Idaho Falls Pocatello North Seattle San Jose St. Johns Holladay Puget Sound Santa Barbara Denver Sharon Boston, Mill Creek St. Louis 112 Duchesne 110 110 109 109 109 109 109 109 109 109 109 109 109 109 109 109 109 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 108 107 107 107 107 107 Philadelphia Twin Falls Box Elder Snowflake Corvallis Maricopa Pasadena North Davis North Idaho Falls Roy West Covina Cedar Rapids Grand Junction Simi New York North Rexburg South Cottonwood Ammon Granger Toronto Olympus Springville Sevier Fort Worth South Box Elder East Mesa Kolob Palm Springs Billings Calgary Albuquerque Lake View East Cache Nampa (Continued) Sugar House Farr West Grand Coulee North Portland San Juan San Leandro Columbia River Millard Detroit San Jose West North Carbon Corpus Christi Chicago South Parowan Teton Alberta South Blackfoot Liberty Uvada Nebo Spanish Fork Tooele San Joaquin. South Summit Fresno Portneuf Raft River Casper Canyon Rim East Ogden Oklahoma Rialto Weber Heights Lansing Yellowstone Tacoma Garden Grove Kearns North University West South Davis Washington Terrace Carbon Bountiful East Mill Creek Valley View Gunnison Palo Alto Taylorsville Orem West Blaine Bear Lake Butte American River Clearfield Lethbridge Missoula Medford Benson Davis Lehi Vancouver Sandy Calgary North Smithfield New Jersey Central Cottonwood Willamette Yakima Wind River Greensboro Orlando Pioneer Richland Tulsa Hillside Kearns New Orleans Grantsville North Weber Fort Wayne Butler Alaska South Carolina Hunter Hartford Lake Mead Brisbane Ben Lomond South Olympia South Sanpete Layton North Sacramento Denver South Houston Summit: Albuquerque East Minnesota Macon Butler West April 1969 297 Santa Monica Florida Palmyra Mount Logan Portland West Raleigh Redwood Riverdale Boise North Juab West Sharon San Mateo Taber Potomac Malad Santa Ana Woodruff Bountiful South American Falls — Bear River Uintah Las Vegas East Wilford Klamath West Boise Seattle East Zion Park East Sharon Hamilton Mesa South Mount Rubidoux San Diego Oneida Timpanogos Washington Big Horn Bonneville Fremont Roosevelt Young Cannon Newport Beach Star Valley North Pocatello Oquirrh Reno Granite Park Deseret Houston East Lost River Emigration St. George Highland Parleys St. George East Wells Blackfoot Weber Franklin North Columbia River Granger North Mount Olympus Murray Monument Park West Mount Jordan Cedar Dallas Panguitch East Provo Holladay South Tucson Logan Santa Maria South Bear River 100 100 100 100 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 98 97 97 97 a7 97 97 Murray South Reno North Santaquin-Tintic San Francisco Riverton Ogden Melbourne North Sanpete Union Alpine Gooding Spokane Mount Graham Rose Park Beaver Manchester Juarez Wichita Idaho San Luis Temple View. Park San Antonio Tempe Humboldt Montpelier Rose Park North South Carolina West East Pocatello Hyrum Perth Salt Lake Monterey Bay Torrance Yuma Fair Oaks Arlington Texas North Craig Pasco Wasatch Bountiful East Weiser Sacramento San Bernardino Cache Flagstaff Salem Orem - Atlanta Gridley Moroni Lorin Farr American Fork Lyman South Sevier Pikes Peak Sydney South Bakersfield 'Fresno East Salmon River West Jordan Columbus Ben Lomond North Jordan Kaysville Garfield Winder Norfolk Nevada North Sevier Shreveport Coeur d'Alene Illinois 82 Auckland 81 81 81 81 81 81 81 80 80 79 79 79 78 78 78 Fi 76 76 74 72 72 72 72 71 70 66 66 65 62 61 56 55 51 40 om Hattiesburg Indianapolis North Carolina Winter Quarters Bountiful North Cascade South Ogden Morgan Midvale Adelaide Emery South Carolina East Honolulu Auckland South Memphis Cleveland Miami Beaumont Sandy East Alabama Cincinnati Leicester Tampa Layton East London East Midvale Leeds Jackson Glasgow Oahu Pearl Harbor Hamilton South Wellington Sunderland Hawkes Bay Magazine Honor Roll for 1968 298 Relief Society Enrollment Subscriptions No. Pct. Stakes on Honor Roll—1968 Magazine Representative Relief Society Enrollment Subscriptions No. Bou Magazine Representative Adelaide Alameda Alaska Alberta Albuquerque Albuquerque East Alpine American Falls American Fork American River Ammon Anaheim Antelope Valley Arlington Ashley Atlanta Auckland Auckland South Bakersfield Bannock Bear Lake Bear River Beaumont Beaver Ben Lomond Ben Lomond South Benson Big Horn LY. 243 536 361 780 362 342 770 415 654 523 606 662 367 406 634 425 385 207 686 356 501 547 305 565 937 626 668 838 rT 192 624 1 797 388 282 759 459 592 493 657 793 448 392 738 386 314 161 617 450 473 605 231 555 838 525 626 921 427 79 116 86 102 107 82 99 111 91 94 108 120 2 97 116 91 82 78 90 126 94 111 76 98 89 84 94 110 108 Ronda L. Serle Eloise M. Wyrouck Cecil Olsen Marion Law Vera K. Hamilton Margaret B. Wollsieffer Eloise C. Ferguson Verna Larson Mayme J. Baker Joan Eagle Ruth T. Milton Esther Pomeroy Lyla Sather Tula Berry Alice T. Wall Claudia D. Fleming Colleen P. Main Pareaute Paniora Verda C. Dallon Clara C. Christensen May Bowman Melba J. Capener Hattie Moss Daisy Gillins S. Elaine Wade Martha S. Dillon Meredith B. Hall LeNore B. Lewis Coeur d'Alene Columbia River Columbus Concord Corpus Christie Corvallis Cottonwood Covina Craig Cumorah Dallas Davis Denver Denver South Denver West Deseret Detroit Duchesne East Cache East Idaho Falls East Jordan East Long Beach East Los Angeles East Mesa East Mill Creek East Ogden East Phoenix East Pocatello 342 670 382 599 144 267 643 638 289 479 499 815 442 491 645 714 664 415 1097 670 619 721 805 697 712 834 584 640 686 301 692 342 760 148 281 596 763 267 549 523 764 498 410 743 759 684 466 1174 788 705 936 1031 751 678 839 699 624 718 88 103 90 127 103 109 93 120 92 115 105 94 113 84 115 106 103 112 107 118 114 118 128 108 95 101 120 98 Dorothy L. Bennett Ava R. Hill Opal V. Six M. Nadine Smith Lorene Ricker Euzell Preston Wilma P. Barr Colleen C. Boman Ida L. Bair Margaret G. Stoner Elsa B. Neil Marie S. Lloyd Ada Bell Norman Virginia L. Potter Phyllis Benfell Erma E. Cropper Mattie R. Tuft Thelda M. Halstead Rachel Blaser Connie Dee Kane Etta M. Whittaker Nadine Ellis Thora B. Rogers Mary L. Adams Lola Condie Katherine W. Eckenbrecht LaVerne Marley April 1969 Boise Boise North Bonneville Boston Bountiful Bountiful East Bountiful North Bountiful South Box Elder Brigham City Brisbane Burbank Burley Butler Butler West Butte Cache Calgary Calgary North Cannon Canoga Park Canyon Rim Carbon Cascade Casper Cassia Cedar Cedar Rapids Cedar West Cheyenne Chicago Chicago South Clearfield Cleveland Sel 575 605 1011 464 857 733 816 902 486 563 279 749 827 423 522 665 686 350 396 639 448 979 730 463 264 417 563 251 562 461 388 487 759 485 821 304 723 675 1110 521 817 672 660 999 582 652 236 898 1053 365 426 627 629 376 369 682 589 984 696 374 266 497 528 273 674 552 504 500 715 372 106 95 126 112 110 112 95 92 81 111 109 116 85 120 127 86 82 94 92 107 93 107 131 101 95 81 101 Lis 105 109 116 120 128 103 94 77 Genevieve Creswell Anna T. Scott June W. Kasteler Shirley J. Blomberg Merle L. Moss Janice G. Stewart Margene D. Peterson Colleen Poulsen Cleo N. Dixon Hilda R. Forrest E. E. Orth Virginia W. Starke Ruth S. Lyons Gladys R. Loveless Vera E. Cowley Jeannette P. Bradfield Norma J. Thompson Pearl Galleys Theodora Stevenson Elsie Dueh|lmeier Dorotha Means Anne L. Halverson Lorraine Stevens Hazel J. Tavis Jean Oakley Emma C. Payne Nettie K. Morris Constance Bennion Hazel B. Davies Deanna J. Hoyt Vilda Page Violet Coffing Thelma M. Haslam Eleanor R. Williams Edmonton El Monte El Paso Emery Emigration Ensign Fair Oaks Farr West Flagstaff Florida Fort Wayne Fort Worth Franklin Fremont Fresno Fresno East Fullerton Garden Grove Garfield Glendale Gooding Grand Coulee Grand Coulee North Grand Junction Granger Granger North Granite Granite Park Grant Grantsville Great Falls Greensboro Gridley Gunnison 665 976 461 450 511 685 610 914 404 770 603 723 358 355 811 419 496 507 544 449 287 1089 695 420 304 547 635 681 608 667 799 606 377 384 958 443 940 1076 532 561 591 542 647 1124 398 799 552 810 309 383 854 448 502 456 620 430 256 1456 685 487 315 595 688 716 696 710 998 526 446 336 869 421 141 110 115 125 116 79 106 123 oF 104 92 liz 86 108 105 107 101 90 114 96 89 134 99 116 104 109 108 105 114 106 125 87 118 88 91 95 Elsie H. Shields Voile E. Mason Maud T. Bentley Ella Maxfield Reva B. Holt Mildred O. Sloan Carla S. Everts Nora K. Poulsen Lula E. Orter Vera M. Williams Alice Green Clara E. Wilson Edna P. Lemmon Ruth Hunt Myrla Stidham Betty J. Wright Juanita Barfuss Beverly Anderson Melba Gates Dorotha M. Beers Hazel Gines Lula Gilbert Mary H. Anthon Arda Luster Viola G. Johnson Ella H. Larson Bertha K. Cundick Lythia J. Street lreta T. Stevens Olive T. Western Wilma |. Miles Ruth M. Brewer Vera Allred Amy L. Thompson Magazine Honor Roll for 1968 301 L Lake View Lansing Las Vegas Las Vegas Central Las Vegas East Las Vegas North Layton Lehi — Lethbridge Lewiston Liberty Logan Long Beach Long Island Lorin Farr Los Angeles Lost River Lyman Macon Maine Malad Manchester Maricopa Marin Medford Melbourne Memphis Mesa Mesa South Miami Midvale Millard Mill Creek Millwaukee 513 619 805 444 538 558 626 744 719 316 698 651 633 310 861 462 302 572 284 383 Se 2 799 312 500 508 298 1095 675 464 637 623 684 380 549 599 1020 544 595 667 524 697 678 371 711 677 881 366 780 616 321 518 233 272 634 211 874 388 469 502 231 1365 744 338 503 643 769 466 107 ey 127 123 111 120 84 94 94 118 102 104 139 118 91 133 106 91 82 82 111 98 109 125 94 99 78 125 110 76 80 103 112 123 lsora Olmstead Maralin P. Bennett Fannie H. Bloxham Lily M. Childers Christine Harvey Vaun S. Klingonsmith Carr! O. Preece Rosa M. Ashton Buelah Manser Effie W. Felsted Luella L. Birrell Luana J. Mortensen Erma Halls Gladys Edic Hazel G. James Nola Whipple Yvonne H. Johnson Barbara H. Slagowski Margaret A. Duff Lois J. Lackey Gloria R. Gleed Edna Hargreaves Olive Wallace Mary J. Vollentine Barbara Shepherd Grace Matthews Daisy Brooks Ethelyn J. Madsen Rae Lemmon Maggie Tolbert Zina Olson Maxine Robins Martha J. H. Matern Luin High North Carbon North Carolina North Columbia River North Davis North Idaho Falls North Jordan North Pocatello North Rexburg North Sacramento North Sanpete North Seattle North Sevier North Tooele North Weber Norwalk Nyssa Oakland-Berkeley Ogden Oklahoma Olympia Olympus Oneida Oquirrh Oquirrh East Orem Orem West Orlando Palm Springs Palmyra Palo Alto Palomar Panguitch Park Parleys 489 605 445 3911 584 880 849 351 729 815 679 617 450 481 678 648 508 768 738 430 400 633 667 480 292 887 811 491 302 731 793 510 463 741 582 628 623 362 412 636 958 758 374 792 682 671 698 397 555 586 781 580 944 731 432 335 686 735 511 333 807 770 429 325 819 753 639 485 724 626 Lue Tweddell Katherine L. Bailey Sarah M. Williams Ardell T. Stoker Maurine N. Grimmett Virginia B. Latimer Sara Anna Fisher Maurine R. Pocock Mary E. Anglesey Connie Ames Dorothy W. Marlowe LaVerde S. Gurney Ann Russell Marvel W. Barrow Lois G. Sundberg Ethel Stoker Helene B. Christensen Jewel V. Avondet Geneva A. McCallister Minnie Grant Alfarette S. Liddle Jessie Swan Gevenevere M. Hickman Evelyn Bridges Virginia S. Lewis Marlene L. Harms Leone R. Johnson Beatrice M. Nielsen Eleanor D. Olsen Elaine H. Tuttle Amaretta H. Graves Theora B. Heap Pearl E. Rohde June T. Allen Magazine Honor Roll for 1968 302 Relief Society Subscriptions No. Pet. Stakes on Honor Roll—1968 (Continued) Magazine Representative Relief Society Enrollment Subscriptions No. Pct. Magazine Representative Parowan Pasadena Pasco Perth Philadelphia Phoenix Phoenix North Phoenix West Pikes Peak Pioneer Pocatello Pomona Portland Portland West Portneuf Potomac Provo Puget Sound Raft River Raleigh Redding Redondo Redwood Reno Reno North Reseda Rexburg 407 983 362 243 582 795 770 780 459 572 646 899 739 780 Se 784 686 5976 203 272 473 760 320 712 521 739 1027 424 475 103 109 92 98 110 118 124 l= 90 87 113 119 104 UipZ 101 111 Lig Lis 101 112 120 116 liz 107 100 115 129 100 87 Barbara B. Burt Rose N. Simper. Joy Hulet Lorna M. Richards Pauline Bishop Helen Means Pearl T. Jacobson Rae D. Levie Myrtle Cahoon Mabel W. Jenks Alice Brandt Nora R. Perdue Evelyn M. Nielson Arelie Reznick Lottie M. Dewey Marjorie Madsen LaRue B. Davies Myra Ennis Ona N. Gunnell Daphne Tew Amelia Daniels Virginia E. Kelson Ruth J. Allen Doris Young Zola R. Lowe Bonnie Parry Mary K. Welker Santa Barbara Santa Maria Santa Monica Santa Rosa Santaquin-Tintic Scottsdale Seattle Seattle East Sevier Sharon Shelley Shreveport Simi Smithfield Snowflake South Bear River South Blackfoot South Box Elder South Carolina South Carolina East South Carolina West South Cottonwood South Davis South Idaho Falls South Los Angeles South Ogden South Salt Lake 669 289 848 490 427 "555 653 578 875 644 894 484 410 852 936 726 850 461 304 300 260 705 915 597 681 724 470 834 455 754 300 951 625 426 635 813 638 946 725 1057 427 446 793 1024 754 868 497 262 236 254 765 874 761 1307 584 551 699 412 113 104 lf 128 100 114 125 110 108 113 118 88 109 93 109 104 102 108 86 7 98 109 96 127 192 81 al 7 84 91 Effie C. Rohifing Edith S. Swonger Helen G. Hansen Jewel Vollentine Ella H. Sandstrom Jeanine McNamara Virginia D. Miller Erma M. Kenyon Manetta Hansen Jean Reeder Vella H. Mecham Beulah Hayes Sharon L. Pittard Ruby J. Thornley Betty Lou Reed Meda Hupp Florence H. Nixon Blanche S. Bird Fannie Branham Lucile B. Black Vivian L. Black Anna V. L. Lindrwan Fern Holt Esther R. Hales Dona Osborn Lillie H. Berrett Hannah M. Dietrich Lucille K. Allen April 1969 303 Riverside Riverton Roosevelt Rose Park Rose Park North Roy Roy North Sacramento St. George St. George East St. Johns St. Joseph St. Louis Salem Salmon River Salt Lake San Antonio San Bernardino San Diego San Diego East San Diego South Sandy San Fernando San Francisco San Joaquin San Jose San Jose South San Jose West San Juan San Leandro San Luis San Luis Obispo San Mateo Santa Ana 110 130 116 132 100 101 113 125 103 104 104 98 114 111 111 lona N. Whiehead LeVon L. Usher Roberta Jones Doris B. Hensler Patsy R. Pearce Dorothy F. Oleson Afton A. Johnson Amanda E. Hurst Blanch G. Wright Ruby Iverson lvamarie S. Crosby Genevieve Woods Vasca Beal Ann Harris Shaunne Wetherington Idonna A. Tonne Carmen S. Martinez Mildred G. Simpson Mariellen D. Greer Pearl McCaleb Isabell Allphin Louise R. Neff Betty M. Read Beth Olsen Ronella M. Brough Joanne Slama Frances L. Blaisdell Vuiican L. Webb Merle J. McDonald lreta Wheeler lrene Mott Nellie C. Johnson Dorothy L. Nelson Abigail S. Millett Spanish Fork Spokane Springville Star Valley Sugar House Summit Sunset Sydney Sydney South Taber Tacoma Taylor Taylorsville Taylorsville West Tempe Temple View Teton Texas North Timpanogos Tooele Toronto Torrance Tucson Tulsa Twin Falls Uintah Union University West Utah Uvada Valley View Vancouver Virginia Walnut Creek 755 645 815 752 901 424 358 231 269 399 716 685 571 412 474 573 560 229 1090 588 648 706 768 395 984 500 647 694 544 330 850 390 350 558 767 635 882 802 935 352 424 284 243 444 692 791 542 468 463 560 574 212 1201 fo) 703 684 804 344 1079 952 638 663 645 336 809 364 402 676 102 99 108 107 104 83 118 123 90 111 97 115 95 114 98 98 103 93 110 102 108 o7 105 87 110 111 a] 96 119 102 95 98 ls 121 Dora L. Otten Beulah Edwards Gwen A. Tippetts Leta W. Coffman Anne W. Dean Ina G. Blonquist Kathryn S. Shelton Elsie Parton Mary Proctor Evelyn G. Johnson Margaret A. Avery Lauretta S. Dahl Marjorie E. Jones Marjorie E. Coats Florence H. Bateman Kathleen V. Perschon Ruby Hogan Oma J. Patterson Velma Gillman Bertha J. Hogan Barbara Fitzgerald Mary Ann Stratford Elizabeth G. Martin Nona Moffat LaVella Pace Stella Richards Mar Jean Westerfield Margaret D. Scott Faye Christensen Ivy L. Edwards Lorna O. Mouser Carolyn Wotherspoon Ethel T. Sweet Mary J. Whitehead Magazine Honor Roll for 1968 304 Relief Society Enrollment Subscriptions No. Pct. Stakes on Honor Roll (Continued) Magazine Representative Relief Society Enrollment Subscriptions No. Pet. Magazine Representative Wasatch Washington Washington Terrace Wayne Weber Weber Heights Weiser Wells West Boise West Covina West Jordan West Pocatello West Sharon West Utah 830 778 451 343 677 801 656 953 548 422 825 625 680 809 766 856 431 419 714 803 601 1007 605 459 741 752 758 935 92 110 96 122 105 100 92 106 110 109 90 120 pil 116 Emily B. Conrad Joyce Hoggan Edna B. Goodliffe Vonda Williams Glonda De Boer Verna K. Taylor Pearl M. Meacham Gertrude S. Fullmer lla Mae F. Dahl Gayle L. Brackner Evelyn Schmidt Zola M. Jacobs Marie W. Smith Beth W. Baker Mission Honor Whittier Wichita Wilford Willamette Wind River Winder Winter Quarters Woodruff Yakima Yellowstone Young Yuma Zion Park Roll—1968 591 262 697 603 227 754 359 776 360 902 722 427 427 676 257 770 529 199 672 292 860 316 873 772 413 471 114 98 lm 88 88 89 81 111 88 97 107 97 110 Beulah D. Mickel Thelma M. Spackman Mary W. Coons Myrtle Powell Artie W. Farthing Clara W. Cameron Dorothy M. Clark Orrie C. Muir LaRene Hall Leola Beddes Faye J. Flack Effie Nowland Arva Jepson Alaskan-Canadian California Canadian Central Atlantic States Central States Cumorah East Central States 659 91 638 594 643 489 1733 Eastern Atlantic States 979 Florida Great Lakes Gulf States 758 216 329 110 109 105 100 Erma T. Hinckley Marie B. Rasmussen Ardella Davey Janice J. Anderson Lola R. West Mary S. Bankhead Erma T. Eldredge Donna J. Bowen Marva S. Rudd Audrey Roberts Oma Wagstaff New England North Central States Northern States Northwestern States South African Southern Australian Texas West Central States Western Canadian Western States Jeanne Dunn Marguerite J. Satterfield Artemisia H. Henderson Virginia P. Backman Eleanor A. Badger Karlyn C. Russon Maralyne H. Howe Nancy L. Jenkins LaNore D. Espenschied Arline M. Scott April 1969 Til ee FROM THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities SOUTHEAST MEXICAN MISSION HOLDS ANNUAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, August 31, 1968 Seated, left to right, officers of the Southeast Mexican Mission Relief Society: Angela Garcia D., Chorister; Orfa Solis Gonzales, visiting teacher message leader; Ernestina Mendoza de Fernandez, social relations class leader; Antonia David de Castillo, First Counselor; Ruth C. Romney, Supervisor; Bertha Morales E., President; ' Alicia G. De Llitheras, Second Counselor; Paula Jacome de Lopez, spiritual living class leader; Adelina Caraveo, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Romney reports: '"'Our annual Relief Society Conference was held in Veracruz, Mexico. We were privileged to have Sister Franklin D. Richards in attendance at the opening session. "In each of the departments, instructions were given for carrying out the programs. Each district brought its most unusual and beautiful articles and gave demonstrations on how they were made, and these were displayed in the cultural hall. "An original play, pointing out the importance of visiting teaching, was presented. Small gold painted keys were given to each sister pointing out the theme of the conference, 'Relief Society is the key that opens the door to knowledge and truth.' " 305 April 1969 WASATCH STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS WARD MAGAZINE REPRESENTATIVES, August 15, 1968 Left to right, front row: Dee Esta Jordan, First Counselor, Wasatch Stake Relief Society; Minnie McKenzie; Atha Montgomery, Second Counselor; Lacy Moulton; Nellie North; Gladys Duke; Ethel Broadbent, President. Back row, left to right: Emily Conrad, stake Magazine representative; Eva Kohler; Reba Davis; Gladys Lawton; Georgia Gardner; Melva Graham; Zenda Edwards. Sister Broadbent reports: ''Members of the stake board prepared and served a luncheon honoring the ward Magazine representatives. There were 250 sisters present to hear an inspiring report by Sister Ruth McClellan, of the eleven years she spent in Mexico while her husband served first on a building mission, then as a mission president. She told of what a great missionary tool the Magazine is." ALPINE STAKE (UTAH), HIGHLAND WARD HONORS PAST RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS, September 24, 1968 Front row, left to right: Maud Greenland; Vera Larson; Miriam Park; Esma Strassburg; Gertrude West. Back row, left to right: Anna Adams, present President; Melba Strassburg; Helga Sweat; Verda Jepperson; Thelma Chidester; Glenna Fae Buhler; Dora Bringhurst; Beth Hyde. Erma Burgess, President, Alpine Stake Relief Society, reports: ''For a fall social, the Highland Ward of our stake held a luncheon honoring the past presidents of the ward Relief Society. The tables were decorated in an autumn motif. Anna Adams narrated the tribute to the past presidents. Each was presented with a corsage, and gave a personal experience recalled from her time of service. 'The ward was organized in 1915 and there have been twenty-four Relief Society presidents."' COLLEGE OF SOUTHERN UTAH STAKE, SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HAS LARGE ATTENDANCE Officers of the Second Ward Relief Society, left to right: Jeanean Tullis, Counselor; Karen Aubrey, President; Marlene Savage, Counselor; Gwen McKane; Lara Halladay; Sandra Barton; Alene Wasden; Katharine Day; Pat Hollinger; Alice Heaton; Roberta Beagley; Ruth Busk. Wilma S. Petty, President, College of Southern Utah Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Second Ward of our stake has a large attendance at each meeting. At the fall social, there were eighty-four present, and the attendance has averaged in the high seventies since then. The ward consists of students and wives of students. There are 100 babies in the ward under one year old. "The officers of the ward work hard to make Relief Society a success and enjoy the Magazine very much."' 306 T April 1969 SYDNEY SOUTH STAKE (AUSTRALIA) RELIEF SOCIETY SISTERS MAKE AFGHANS Pictured with their afghans, left to right: Laura Mapstone, South Harbour Ward; Joyce Barnett, Woolongong Ward; Pauline McMaugh, Hurtsville Ward; Doris Moore, Cabramatta Ward; Edna Waddell, Woolongong Second Ward; Germana Bosman, Sutherland Ward; Marie Lawrence, Fairfield Ward; Diane McGuigan, Bankstown Ward. Mavis E. Draper, President, Sydney South Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Many of the sisters have learned to crochet at Relief Society meetings, and have created some very lovely afghans."' RICHLAND STAKE (WASHINGTON), KENNEWICK WARD HOLDS "BACK TO RELIEF SOCIETY"' FALL SOCIAL September 27, 1968 Left to right: Sarah Bailey, spiritual living class leader, Kennewick Ward Relief - Society; Elaine Mansius, cultural refinement class leader. Evelyn N. Binns, President, Richland Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Kennewick Ward held a very successful fall social, 'Back to Relief Society,' in keeping with the back to school theme of the season. Miniature slates were given to the sisters attend-. Ing, inviting them to join in the Relief Society program, and the decorations were centered around a red brick schoolhouse. 'An original skit, musical numbers, readings, and tributes comprised the program, and lovely refreshments were served. The ward officers report that attendance at Relief Society has doubled since the social.'' rs —. Mm WEST POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO) MAGAZINE REPRESENTATIVES HONORED AT LUNCHEON September 13, 1968 Magazine representatives of West Pocatello Stake Relief Society, left to right: Jacquelyn Harmon, Twenty-ninth Ward; Vilet Zundel, Ninth Ward; Faye Doman, Twenty-second Ward; LaVerne Gardner, Sixteenth Ward; Eliza Bevan, Twenty-sixth Ward; Eleanor Packer, Fifth Ward; Virginia Butterfield, Thirty-first Ward. — Elma Winn, President, West Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A new subscription drive was organized under the direction of Zola Jacobs, stake Magazine representative. The ward selling the most new subscriptions was awarded a beautiful sego lily arrangement. "On September 13, 1968, a luncheon and program were given, honoring the ward Magazine representatives. The theme was 'Open the Door Through The Relief Society Magazine.' The Fifth Ward was presented the sego lily arrangement. 'Each of the Magazine representatives who achieved over 100 per cent subscriptions in her ward was presented with a grape cluster arrangement." 308 SSS as Emma ey BR: hs Bos % S. La we ee April 1969 UVADA STAKE (UTAH), ENTERPRISE SECOND WARD VISITING TEACHERS ACHIEVE OUTSTANDING SUCCESS Officers of the Enterprise Second Ward, Uvada Stake, beginning second row, fifth from left: Rosella Jones, First Counselor; Thelma Staheli, President; Madge Hunt, Second Counselor; Deseret Bauer, Secretary-Treasurer. Bernice Phillips, President, Uvada Stake Relief Society, reports: '"'We are very proud of the visiting teachers in this ward. They have achieved five consecutive years of one hundred per cent visiting teaching, and are an inspiration to us all.'' TEXAS SOUTH MISSION, CRYSTAL CITY BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY ASSEMBLES "TEXAS MOSQUITOES" Front row, left to right: Sofia Nolasco; Miranda Stringham, missionary; Eleanor Castillo, First Counselor, Crystal City Branch Relief Society; Linda Stinebough. Back row, left to right: Aletha Tolman, President; Adelia Campos; Barbra Klopp; Mary Stinebough, Second Counselor; Blanca Campos. | Geneal J. Larsen, Supervisor, Texas South Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The sisters of the Crystal City Branch of the Southwest District of the mission have contributed heavily to their building fund by assembling 'Mr. And Mrs. Texas Mosquito.' The mosquitoes are made from the pod of a seed called 'Devil's Claws.' The project was started in 1963 and has been most successful. "The pods are scraped, painted, and dressed in felt clothing, complete with Texas hats. Requests for the mosquitoes have come from all over the country, and it has been said, 'Yes, the Texas Mosquito has become famous, and its beauty is greater than its bite'.'' STAR VALLEY STAKE (WYOMING), AFTON FIRST WARD PRESENTS ANNUAL STYLE REVIEW August, 1968 Models, left to right: Milinda Parks; Mary Ann Roberts; Jan Sorensen; Sharon Stauffer; Jane Anderson; Katie Thomas; Karen Thomas. Clarissa Merritt, President, Star Valley Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Afton First Ward of our stake presented their annual style review, which culminated a summer of sewing projects. All of the lovely articles worn by the models are homemade and very pretty. "The sisters look forward to this style review each year, and there were fortyeight entries. Sarah Walker is President of the Afton First Ward Relief Society.'' 310 = i -— "i Us KEARNS NORTH STAKE (UTAH), KEARNS SEVENTEENTH WARD PRESENTS SUCCESSFUL BAZAAR September 20, 1968 Helen M. Dall, President, Kearns North Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We held a successful bazaar, with the theme, 'Carnival Time.' There was a great emphasis on the children, who enjoyed the bazaar almost as much as their parents. 'Food was in all forms, but the tacos and root beer were the large sellers. There was a beauty shop where the little girls could get their hair fixed and a ribbon put in it all for ten cents. 'The display pictured is the 'Family Home Evening Booth,' and here helps were sold, ranging from various charts to activity sheets. 'The booths which sold handmade articles were popular and stocked with very lovely articles made by the sisters. There was a dress shop which sold clothing made by the best seamstresses in the ward from material bought and distributed by the Relief Society. "All in all, this is one of the most successful bazaars ever held in the stake, and a family treat.'' 312 HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 10—Gardening Appearance Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, July 1969 Southern Hemisphere: December 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show how the appearance of the immediate outside areas contributes to a desired home environment. INTRODUCTION Traditionally, the Persian found in his garden a paradise on earth, with water to provide irrigation and serenity, grass and trees to give coolness and shelter, flowers to furnish color and fragrance, and the soothing sound of singing birds to delight the ear. A love of gardens is not confined to the Persians. Everyone delights in a garden. Today, the world over, the lawns and gardens are considered to be a part of the home itself. If there is a rich, warm, glowing home life, the surroundings will reflect and partake of the same qualities. If there is friendliness and_ hospitality in the home, there will be an inviting and welcoming atmosphere in the garden also. We have learned that gardens are to be lived in and enjoyed and that they are an integral part of our household. There is no cottage nor humble abode of any kind which cannot be enhanced and made more inviting by the appearance of a well-kept garden and surroundings. WHAT ARE THE CHARACTERISTICS OF A DESIRED HOME ENVIRONMENT? 1. Well-cared-for lawns and curbings. The lawns are kept well watered, weeded, and trimmed. (Many lawns which are green and cut look ragged and even unsightly because of untrimmed edges.) Francis Bacon wrote in his essay on gardening, "Nothing is more pleasing to the eye than green grass finely shorn." 2. A yard free from all unnecessary clutter 313 April 1969 3. Walks and entrances well swept and free from dirt, ice, or excess moisture. 4. Hose and other gardening equipment inconspicuously placed or housed. Trees and shrubs pruned and trimmed. 6. Garden plots and_ shrubbery kept free from weeds and undergrowth. Outdoor living space made pleasant to look at in all seasons, with appropriate planting, arbors, fences, and other such features. (A well-kept patio adds to outside enjoyment.) 8. Fences, gates, and walls kept neat and in good repair. 9. Garden furniture, urns, flower boxes, and other embellishments in good repair and_ properly placed and arranged. (A garden or grounds should never' be crowded with bric-a-brac. Garden furnishings should be adequate and functional and should add to, not detract from, its overall appearance.) on "I HOW CAN WE ACHIEVE BEAUTY IN OUR GARDENS AND GROUNDS? Like any worthwhile project, a successful garden requires time and effort on the part of those who would achieve this goal. Many people, even when they can afford to consult a professional landscape architect or to hire a gardener, want the satisfaction which comes from doing their own gardening and experiencing the excitement which follows. Homes with small plots of ground hold opportunities for development as interesting and as beautiful as the larger places, and certainly the rewards are just as great. It is surprising how many useful and _ attractive features can be worked into the comparatively small home grounds if planned for carefully. 314 ottingham Nattingh Lace Caltlecloths Famous throughout the world. Cotton lace 55x70" $6.50 70''x90" 7.50 108''x90"' 8.50 Terylene 70"x90" 9.50 All Post Charges Paid. Leach and Tooley 65 Mill Road Newthorpe Nottingham, England New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _-_.555 Zone5 __-_..75 Zone3 _~___._.60 Zone6 ____-..85 Zone4 __._._.65 Zone7.__.-.95 Zone8__.- -1.05 a. DESERET FREws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Continental Trailways Escorted Tours HISTORIC EAST 19 Days from Salt Lake City 6 Departures during July Famous places of historic interest to members of the L. D. S. Church as well as the standard scenic attractions of the areas visited. You'll travel via: e CHICAGO ¢ NIAGARA FALLS e PALMYRA PAGEANT e NEW YORK CITY e WASHINGON D. C. E RICHMOND e ST. LOUIS CANADIAN ROCKIES 15 Days from Salt Lake City Departure Date: August 15 e BANFF « LAKE LOUISE e JASPER NAT'L. PARK AND ICEFIELDS ¢ VANCOUVER e VICTORIA © SEATTLE These are just a few of many scenic attractions you'll visit on these escorted tours. All transportation on air-conditioned, rest room equipped Silver Eagle® motorcoaches;: deluxe hotel accommodations; many sightseeing excursions as well as the services of a guide-escort on each tour. For detailed brochures, contact your travel agent, local Continental Trailways agent or: 77 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84101 328-8121 Continental © Trailways GOUPS 0 Lesson Department These include facilities for lounging, cooking, dining, working, playing, and even sleeping— not to mention herb and vegetable plots or compost heaps. The following suggestions might be helpful whatever the situation. Whether we are just beginning our home planting or whether we are simply improving existing home surroundings we should carefully plan and then carry out the development in a gradual, orderly way that will not be too costly at any one time. Existing trees suggest where to establish the flower beds, terrace, lawn, and service features of the property. The city garden, regardless of its type, needs enclosure to insure privacy. In situations where it is impractical to have growing garden plots and lawns, plants may be grown in containers or in soil pockets made in the paving. Hedges, shrubbery borders, fences, and garden walls are used to extend the privacy of the house to the property lines. A kitchen garden of salad vegetables and culinary herbs can be a delightful and practical addition somewhere near the kitchen entrance. (Sometimes these useful plants can be attractively interspersed in the gardens themselves.) Cooperation with neighbors and friends can result in exchange of plants and flowers. (Many a magnificent rose garden has resulted from slips from the stems of gift roses or of those from a friend's garden.) Seeds which will supply a complete flower garden can be obtained at small cost. (Early planting of seeds indoors will supply bedding plants.) Seed-bearing plants will yield seed which can be planted to produce beds. Ground covers which spread rapidly can be obtained for little or no cost Family cooperation can result in garden projects to beautify and improve the grounds. CONCLUSION Our gardens and_ grounds, however, large or small, not only form the setting for our homes; 315 April 1969 Hill Cumorah Pageant 3 TOURS departing Salt Lake City — July 19 for 16 days — $279.00 July 26 for 20 days — $359.00 July 12 for 24 days — $395.00 (July 12 tour includes Canada) EXPERIENCED ESCORTS ON ALL TOURS our best tour to HAWAII Annual "ALOHA WEEK TOUR" escorted by owner, GARY MITCHELL 14 days departing SLC Oct. 20 — returning SLC Nov. 2 TEMPLE SESSIONS INCLUDED TOURS FOUR DIFFERENT ISLANDS Request itineraries and assistance for all travel needs from HOLIDAY AWAY Travel Service Suite 301, 136 South Main St. Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Telephone 328-8981 formerly Margaret Lund Travel Service aS PE "BB SL WET MUSIC COMPANY 'Singing Mothers'' ''Choir Directors"' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 Instruments 316 they are also an essential part of them. In addition to these important functions, they serve in other ways to enhance our daily living. They bring beauty and repose from the burdens of the day; they provide nourishment for the soul as well as for the body; they are a source of hospitality to our families and our friends. If we, like the Persians of old, cherish our gardens and take pride in their care and appearance, we, also, will find in them a paradise on earth. °K SONG OF A HAPPY HOUSEWIFE This is not a house I'm keeping; and this laundry, sweet and clean, does not speak of work with grudging, or of tasks that can demean. This one day of simple service (Was | meant for better things?) by itself can count as nothing; yet, a certitude it brings that this day of willing service, multiplied a hundredfold in the tender care of others, and repeated till I'm old, does not count as one day given in the holy courts above; This is not a house I'm keeping— it's my monument to love. —Evalyn M. Sandberg *K NOTE TO THE FIELD New Prices for Binding The Relief Society Magazine The new prices for binding the year's copies of The Relief Society Magazine at the Deseret News Press are as follows: Cloth Cover $3.50 Leather Cover $5.50 For address and postage rates, see the Deseret News Press advertisement on page 314 EOE eGC~"sTEO April 1969 DEAUIIFUL All Grain 4 Stone & Ground Flour Mill For full information, ' write Dept. R. S. Gam P. O. Box 115. Tremonton, Utah 84337 PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US Annual Tours * California Holiday July Sth-1 6th Hill Conerci Pamworit 16 days and 23 days leaving July 26th ¥% Black Hills Passion Play August 17th-24th * Canadian Rockies and Northwest August 18th-31st * Hawaiian Aloha Week October 12th-25th Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 What would you give for an easy way to teach your child the GOSPEL? In a medium range for children 3 to 9. Ideal for mothers, teachers, and family home evenings to teach the gospel to children. Songs like ''Easter is a Happy Time of Year,'' ''Faitn,'' ''Someday I'll Be a Missionary,'' ''Why Do | Say My Prayers."' Available at your local bookstore or write: Singing with Joy 965 North 8th West Salt Lake City, Utah 84116 318 Here's a Bargain for only Simple, easy to learn songs $9 50 "Add 15¢ postage and 8¢ tax. BERNINA MADE IN SWITZE " RLAND 7 o were Precision engineered to give trouble-free convenience for all your sewing needs. Now you can Blind Hem Stitch, Stretch Stitch, Baste Stitch, Tailor Tack, Buttonhole, Darn, Fancy ZigZag Stitch, Applique without cam changing! Plus Bernina gives you many more convenience features THERE'S A BERNINA JUST RIGHT FOR YOUR SEWING NEEDS... ATA PRICE JUST RIGHT FOR YOUR FAMILY BUDGET! * No tension adjustment required to sew on all types of material, awh? Regardless of weight. A OK — & ae: ° CB Shuttle eliminates thread jamming — a Bernina exclusive for greatest sewing convenience. * Patented snap-on feet makes needle changing quick and easy with a simple twist. * True stretch stitching. ¢ Plus many, many, other Bernina features! FREE Send the coupon below to the address shown for a free copy of the 50 picture. Full color brochure FULL that gives you the full story on the Bernina Sewing COLOR Machine No obligation. Of course! Jr eee eee BROCHURE | BERNINA IMPORTERS RS 4/69! | | 70 South Orchard Drive North Salt Lake, Utah 84054 Pree 8 eee - PUBIBRESS -_ gee..--.----cege--- ne eee eee CITY STATE ZIP. Creative Playthingsoe e ($2.25) 4 ($2.75) This 3 year old (on the left) is fascinated with the problem of lining up holes with the pegs of the NUMBER SORTER which is designed for children 2-5. The MATCH MATE set by her side provides number experience by matching jig-saw pieces. Every ward Relief Society nursery needs toys. NOW Deseret Book is proud to announce that their 'Creative Playthings Department" can supply this need. Creative Playthings are hardwood toys durable enough to withstand heavy duty use. They are age classified and have been selected by educators in over 45,000 schools as toys to stimulate a joyful for Ward (R.5.) Nurseries ($2.50) The baby is learning to grasp and feel the difference in shapes and texture with the two HEDGEHOGS and CLUTCH BALL. The boys, ages 2 and 3% are playing with just two of many instructional transportation toys designed with moving parts for ages 2-8. Interest in learning from infancy to early adolescence in music transportation drama doll play science and building blocks of all sizes and shapes. Send for our free catalog, 'Creative Playthings, Guide to Toy Selection" NOW! Or see them at Deseret Book Store, 44 East South Temple when you attend April conference. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me items circled 123 4 5 6 Total Cost $ 0000000000..| enclose check [] money order [] Charge established account [J Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 312% sales tax residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. Apr. R. S. Mag. 69 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah - 

