Relief Society — A Bulwark for Women Counselor Louise W. Madsen [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 27, 1961] recent issue of a prominent A women's magazine contained a portfolio of paintings with text delineating the suffrage-forwomen movement. The formal beginning of the movement took place in upstate Seneca Falls, New York, on Wednesday and Thursday, July 19 and 20, 1848. Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton were the two chief leaders who arranged this noteworthy convention. The article states that by carriages and farm wagons, the first American suffragettes assembled, and that Mrs. Mott's husband had to preside, because no woman knew enough parliamentary procedure to preside. More than six years before another group of women had met in a momentous meeting and heard the Prophet of the Lord state, "I now declare this society organized with president and counselors, etc., according to parliamentary usage." He taught them a form of parliamentary procedure for conducting meetings, which procedure is still characteristic of Relief Society meetings. "From that very hour on the Thursday afternoon of March 17, 1842, began the advancement in privileges, rights, and material comforts which women now enjoy" (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 14). From that very hour there existed a society to Page 724 which women could look for guidance, for uplift, in which they could give service, upon which they could depend to be well taught in various fields, and from which they could gain assurance and peace of mind. The society has not experienced the ups and downs and final dissolution that have come to most organizations which had their beginnings in those early days. It has not been driven nor wind-tossed, but has had the guidance of prophets of the Lord who have from time to time given instruction which they felt it should have. It could well be imagined that in every generation someone had said words to the effect that "These are the times that try men's souls." Surely, there was never more truth in this statement than now. The people search for security and long for peace. Some think they can be found only in the acquisition of material things. Others think they can be found only in preparedness for great emergencies. Some think security can never be found. But the Lord has given us this comforting assurance, "Therefore, fear not, little flock; do good; let earth and hell combine against you, for if ye are built upon my rock, they cannot prevail" (D & C 6:34). Relief Society is a guidepost to wom- RELIEF SOCIETY — A BULWARK FOR WOMEN 725 en in helping them direct their own lives so that they can cling to his rock. Relief Society is a bulwark to the women in this time when godlessness is rampant in the world, when the disciples of evil are proclaiming their wicked doctrines and endeavoring to entice and convert to their way of life those who are unwary and who have not built upon the rock, nor learned to do good. Disturbing news comes to us of the efforts made by some women in the world to infiltrate into established women's organizations in an attempt to gain leadership and unrighteous power over other women. How fortunate we are in Relief Society. Our officers are chosen by the power of the Priesthood, under the inspiration of our Father in heaven. No one can assume leadership in our organization but those who are called and set apart by those in authority. Relief Society women are safeguarded from false doctrine because those whom God has chosen, members of the Priesthood, approve the lessons. Every sister can rely completely upon Relief Society and can have absolute assurance that activity in this society is activity in righteousness. Nothing in the world gives peace in one's innermost heart and the sincere sense of well-being that living the gospel brings. HE sisters of Relief Society have always been courageous women. The resources of courage spring from a basic philosophy of high ideals. Courageous people, as a rule, have faith, a firm conviction of the tightness of their cause, and a spirit of responsibility. They have purpose in their lives. The world needs courageous women, unafraid to live as the Lord would have them live, unafraid to stand firm against all evil, unafraid to fight for the right. The sisters of Relief Society will always be courageous women. As the colors of a kaleidoscope constantly change with each tiny movement, and endless variations of pattern appear — so does the world appear to many who see only the changes and do not recognize the firm foundation of things that are changeless. 'There is constancy amid change. Constant are the laws of God, constant are his commandments, and ever constant his love for his children. Constant is the need for faith, for righteousness, and for serving God through service to his children. Constant are the goals and purposes of Relief Society, and constant it stands as a bulwark for the women who come under its influence.