[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: A CHRONICLE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. | Author: Unknown]

A CHRONICLE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
I.
	The spirit of fraternity, and of love for
one another began in the Latter-day
Saint Church in the days of Kirtland,
about the time the Prophet Joseph Smith
and his wife Emma came to that historic
town in February, 1831. This fact might
be demonstrated by many little incidents
that transpired in those early days among
the sisters, and possibly will be when a
complete history of the Society which
was afterwards organized is written. How-
ever, for the present, after pointing out
the spirit of sisterly love and charity that
existed prior to the establishment of this
grand and flourishing organization, it is
only the design of the writer to give a few
facts chronologically.
	The Relief Society proper was organized
by the Prophet Joseph Smith at a meet-
ing held in the Lodge Room, in Nauvoo,
Illinois, where the Saints settled after
leaving Missouri. The Temple was con-
templated and the people were preparing
to build. Some few sisters were very
anxious to assist in this great undertak-
ing in some systematic way, and talked
the matter over; finally the subject was
presented to President Joseph Smith,
who told them to meet together and he
would organize a society suitable for be-
nevolent purposes. The spirit of the
work was in the hearts of these good,
God fearing women, and those who knew
of the project came together as des-
ignated. There were only eighteen
sisters present and they nominated their
own officers and elected Emma Smith
President, Sarah M. Cleveland and Eliza-
beth Ann Whitney, Counselors; Eliza R.
Snow, Secretary; Phebe Ann Wheeler,
Assistant Secretary; and Elvira S. Coules,
Treasurer. The President was the wife
of the President Joseph Smith, and she
was designated “The Elect Lady” by
revelation given some years previous, and
was then ordained to expound the Scrip-
tures. Her nomination and election by
the sisters in that remarkable meeting of

[Column 2]
women, in that early time shows they
“builded better than they knew.” Looking
back it is wonderful to contemplate, yet we
who know so much of the Prophet Joseph
cannot but believe that he foresaw what
the future of this important Society would
be. Emma Smith’s was the first ordina-
tion to this calling of any woman, and
took place many years before any of the
churches extant had ordained women
ministers. (Their names are all given in
the minutes of that meeting.) Only one
of all that number is living at the present
time, our honored and beloved President,
Sister Bathsheba W. Smith. How emi-
nently appropriate that she should occu-
py the position of “Elect Lady” in this
ripe hour of the Society when it has at-
tained such permanency, and celebrity
throughout the world. Identified with it
as she has been from the very commence-
ment, and through the entire sixty-four
years and more, promoting in every pos-
sible way its best interests; she stands to-
day a living witness of its growth and de-
velopment through all the various stages
of its onward progress, and has always
been foremost in any great enterprise for
the women of Zion.
	From the little handful of sisters who
met on that ever memorable day, March
17, 1842, in the next two years the increase
in membership reached nearly 2,000, and
the amount of charity work was some-
thing marvelous for those early times
when womens’ organizations were un-
known. Strange indeed that these young
sisters—for they were all under forty
years, except one—should have asked for
organization, and given the Society
a name, the Relief Society, that has re-
mained with it, acceptable to all those
who have come into the ranks since; even
with the newer ideas and modern ad-
vancement among womankind; doubtless
the name will be held in honorable repute
while there are works of charity to be
done for suffering humanity, and while
there is need of kindly ministrations.
	The Relief Society could not operate
as an organized body of workers when the
people were scattered hither and thither,
at the time of the exodus from Nauvoo,
but the secretary, Sister Eliza R. Snow,
brought away the records, which was an
important part of the Society, and served
a legitimate purpose in reopening the
work after the Saints had gathered here
in these mountain vales.
	President Brigham Young following in
the footsteps of his predecessor, called
upon the secretary, Sister Eliza R. Snow,
in the year 1855, to go forth and assist
the Bishops of the various wards, (that
had been organized under his direction)
in organizing a Relief Society in each
ward. He suggested that she take as
her assistant Sister Zina D. Young.
	Previous to this there had been some
temporary organizations and charitable
work had been done necessary to the con-
ditions of the people living where the na-
tive Indians came freely among them, it
was positively necessary to provide some
clothing for them, as well as food. Much
of this was done by the sisters in these
temporary associations. To be sure there
was much to be done for neighbors and
friends, but little to handle in the way of
means until a few years had elapsed;
then came the time when permanent soci-
eties were provided as mentioned, and
Sister Eliza R. and Sister Zina D. went


[Column 1]
from ward to ward helping the Bishops
to organize as indicated. From that time
onward the Society continued to grow
although there was no linking together
into one great whole until some years
later. In these earlier temporary socie-
ties she who stands at the head now was
diligent and faithful.
	It is not the purpose of this article to
tell the story, only to give a few pertinent
facts in relation to a society, that has
taken a very foremost place, not only as
an auxiliary in the Church of Latter-day
Saints, but it is known in the world outside,
among those not of our faith, as one of
the most flourishing organizations of wo-
men banded together for the higher ad-
vancement and permanent growth of all
that tends to the betterment and uplift-
ing of women; and of life itself in its de-
velopment religiously, socially, mentally,
morally, and physically.
	The Relief Society is not alone a charit-
able institution, but stands for all that
will tend to bless and elevate home life,
the community and the great common-
wealth; in short, the universal brother-
hood and sisterhood of the world. The
spirit of the work permeates the soul of
those actively engaged in the performance
of its duties and responsibilities. But it
is not the object of the writer to elabor-
ate, but to chronicle events in their order
as relating to the grand achievements so
far as it has progressed until the present
period of its status.
	As towns and settlements grew under
the direction of President Brigham Young,
and those associated with him in settling
and colonizing Utah, and the surrounding
territory, there was in every ward one of
these societies of sisters, each with its
perfect equipment of officers and teach-
ers, such helps as were necessary to take
care of all those who needed assistance
of whatever name or nature, and the
local society and the Bishop of the ward
and brethren associated with him worked
in unison and harmony in building up the
ward and looking after the public inter-
ests. Meetings were held by the sisters
regularly, weekly or semi-monthly accord-
ing to the conditions of the people and
the surroundings in the respective so-
ciety. Finally there came a time when
President Young thought best to solidify
the wards into stakes consisting of a num-
ber of ecclesiastical wards convenient to
group together, and appointed a president
and two counselors to preside over each
stake.
	This same theory was afterwards put in
practice with the organizations known in
each ward as the Relief Society, President
Brigham Young himself leading out in
this direction.
	On the 19th of July, 1877, Sister Jane
S. Richards, of Ogden City, who had
been for some time presiding over the
wards within the city, and had been suc-
cessful in promoting several kinds of
employment for women and girls, invited
President Brigham Young to come up
and attend a meeting in Ogden City, and
to bring with him those he wished to ac-
company him; meantime Sister Richards
had invited the sisters and brethren of
the county from far and near to attend
the meeting, little anticipating what
would transpire; President Young, his
Counselor, President D. H. Wells, and
some of the Apostles, Sister Eliza R.

[Column 2]
Snow and the writer of this article also
being of the number, went up on the
morning train, and were present when
President Brigham Young called and ap-
pointed Sister Jane S. Richards to pre-
side over all the womens’ organizations in
Weber Stake of Zion. This was the com-
mencement of the consolidating of the
various branches of the Relief Society
into a stake organization.
	After some months President Jane S.
Richards chose her counselors, Mrs. Hat-
tie C. Brown and Mrs. Sarah A. Herrick,
and Mrs. Amelia M. Frodsham, secretary.
This constituted the Presidency of the
Relief Society of the Weber Stake.
	The second organization of a Relief
Society in a stake capacity was Salt Lake,
December 22, 1877. Notice having been
duly given President John Taylor and
some of the Apostles were invited to the
meeting, but were detained by business.
Presiding Bishop Edward Hunter and
Elder A. Milton Musser attended. Miss
Eliza R. Snow was elected chairman of
the meeting, and Mrs. E. B. Wells, secre-
tary, Miss Amy Adams assistant secretary.
The chairman explained the object of the
meeting and stated that President Brig-
ham Young had inaugurated a movement
previous to his death which she consid-
ered it proper to carry out. The meet-
ing was conducted strictly in accordance
with parliamentary usage. Mrs. Mary
Isabella Horne was elected President of
the Relief Society of the Salt Lake Stake
of Zion. Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor and
Mrs. Sarepta M. Heywood, counselors,
and Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, secretary
Mrs. Maria W. Wilcox cor. secy.; at a
subsequent meeting Mrs. Bathsheba W.
Smith was elected treasurer.
	Very soon after, at a meeting purposely
called at Farmington, Thursday, April 3,
1878, the branches of the Relief Society
of Davis County were grouped together
in a stake organization, Mrs. Sarah I.
Holmes was elected pres[-]dent, Mrs. Mary
S. and Mrs. Nancy A. Clark counselors,
and Miss Minerva Richards secretary.
	On April 21, 1878, at the Nephi meet-
ing house (Sunday), President George
Teasdale officiating, Apostle Erastus
Snow and Jacob G. Bigler being present,
the Juab Stake Relief Society was organ-
ized. The officers were Mrs. Amelia
Goldsborough president, Mrs. Elizabeth
Kendall and Mrs. Jane Picton counselors,
Mrs. Mary Pitchforth secretary, and Mrs.
Amy L. Bigler cor. sec’y.
	Box Elder Stake Relief Society was
organized at Brigham City, May 14, 1878
(Sunday). Bishop John Welch of that
place presented the names of the officers
who had been previously selected, they
were unanimously sustained: Mrs. Har-
riet A. Snow president, Mrs. Susannah
P. Booth and Mrs. Mary Stark counsel-
ors, Mrs. Mary E. Snow secretary, and
Mrs. Emilia D. Madsen cor. sec’y.
	The Relief Society of Kanab Stake was
organized June 9, 1878 (Friday), by Pres-
ident L. John Nuttall. Officers—Mrs.
Elizabeth Nuttall president, Mrs. Harriet
D. Bunting and Lucy R. Johnson coun-
selors. Mrs. Mary E. Little secretary, Mrs
L. A. Johnson asst. secy., Mrs. E H. D.
Solomon treasurer.
	The Relief Society of Morgan Stake
was organized July 20, 1878 (Sunday),
President Willard G. Smith officiating.
Officers elected were Lydia Rich presi-
dent, Ann Fry and Martha Tonks coun-

[Column 3]
selors, H. Cordelia Smith secretary and
Sarah A. Rawle cor. sec’y.
	Tooele Stake Relief Society was organ-
ized September 20. 1878 (Friday), by Presi-
dent Francis M. Lyman. Mrs. Mary Ann
Hunter president, Mrs. Elizabeth Clegg
and Mrs. Agnes Rich counselors, Mrs.
Mary A. House secretary and Mrs. Ann
Tate cor. sec’y.
	Utah Stake Relief Society was organ-
ized September 27, 1878 (Friday), by
President A. O. Smoot in Provo at the
meeting house. Sister Eliza R. Snow
was elected president of the meeting and
Albert Jones secretary. President Smoot
stated the object of the meeting and as-
sisted in the selection of the officers.
Mrs. Margaret T. Smoot president, Mrs.
Mary John and Mrs. Margaret A. Cluff
counselors, Mrs. Caroline Daniels secre-
tary, Mrs. Lucy W. Kimball asst. sec’y.
	The Relief Society of St. George Stake
organized at St. George September 13,
1878 (Friday), by Apostle Erastus Snow.
Officers, Mrs. Minerva W. Snow presi-
dent, Mrs. Anna S. Iyins and Mrs. Han-
nah H. Romney counselors, Mrs. Eliza S.
Calkins secretary and Mrs. Elizabeth P.
Bentley asst. sec’y.
	Summit Stake Relief Society organiza-
tion was effected October 25, 1878 (Sat-
urday), Apostle Franklin D. Richards
and President W. W. Cluff officiating
The officers sustained were Mrs. Sarah
S. Richards president, Mrs. Ann Cluff
and Mrs. Mary W. Reynolds counselors,
Mrs. Jane S. Boydon secretary.
	Millard Stake Relief Society was organ-
ized January 28, 1879, by President Ira
N. Hinckley, at a mass meeting held at
Fillmore (Tuesday). The officers sus-
tained were Mrs. Belinda M. Pratt presi-
dent, Delilah K. Olsen and Sarah L. Par-
tridge counselors, D. K. Olson secretary.
	Bear Lake Stake Relief Society was
organized April 17, 1879 (Friday), at
Paris, Idaho, by Apostle Charles C. Rich.
Mrs. Julia P. Lindsay was elected presi-
dent, Mrs. Elizabeth Collings and Mrs,
Maria Rich counselors, Mrs. Alice M.
Rich secretary and Mrs. Elizabeth Pug-
mire Assn’t secretary.
	The Relief Society of Sanpete Stake
was organized at Manti May 19, 1879
(Tuesday), by President Canute Peter-
son, the officers having been previously
appointed at a stake conference. Mrs.
Mary Ann P. Hyde president, Mrs. Eliza-
beth Allred and Mrs. Annie U. Larsen
counselors, Mrs. Fanny Kofford cor.
secy.
	The Relief Society of Sevier Stake was
organized at Richfield June 16, 1879
(Tuesday), by President R. K. Thurber,
Miss Eliza R. Snow and Mrs. Isabella M.
Horne. Mrs. Elizabeth Bean president,
Mrs. Jane Spencer and Mrs. Thirza M.
Thurber counselors, Mrs. Catherine Hunt
secretary.
	Wasatch Stake Relief Society was or-
ganized at Heber City September 3, 1879
(Wednesday), by President Abram Hatch,
Miss Eliza R. Snow and Mrs. Emmeline
B. Wells. The meeting was held in the
Heber City meeting house. Mrs. Emma
Brown was elected president, Mrs. Sarah
Alexander and Mrs. Mary Daybell coun-
selors, Mrs. Mary Bronson secretary.
	Parowan Stake Relief Society was or-
ganized September 28, 1879 (Sunday), at
the stake conference, President Henry
Lunt and Bishop Arthur officiating. Offic-
ers were Ellen W. Lunt president,


Mary Ann Lunt and Huldah D. Mitchell
counselors, Sarah Chatterley secretary
and Jane Mackelprag cor. secy.
    Panguitch Stake Relief Society was or-
ganized February 3, 1880, Apostle Eras-
tus Snow and President James Henrie
officiating. Officers elected were Mrs.
Barbara Myers president, Mrs. Sarah P.
Crosby secretary.
    Beaver Stake Relief Society organized
by President John R. Murdock. Mrs.
Lucinda Hand president, Mrs. Flora S.
Shipp secretary. 
    June 28, 1880, the Eastern Arizona
Stake was organized, with Mrs. Willmirth
East president, Mrs. Emma S. Smith and
Lois R. Hunt counselors, Ida F. Hunt,
secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


