[Vol57 | September 1970 | Page 710 | General Feature | Homemaking— Refined Conduct, Self-Discipline, Self-Control | ]
HOMEMAKING—A Lovelier You Discussion 3—Refined Conduct, Self-Discipline, Self-Control Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, December 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, May 1971 OBJECTIVE: To show that a woman's actions speak loudly in revealing the kind of person she is. INTRODUCTION Becoming a lovelier you involves more than being outwardly attractive. To have beauty from within is as important as having it without. It requires the exercise of selfcontrol and self-discipline. WHAT IS "REFINED CONDUCT'? To be refined is to be courteous at all times, to want to give happiness to others, to speak truthfully, and to be considerate of the feelings of others. A wise mother does not wear one face for company and another face for the family. She does not smile sweetly to a neighbor and then seconds later become rude to her family. What other qualities indicate refined conduct? SELF-CONTROL All of us are guilty of feeling anger on occasion. Blind, unnecessary anger can be a very destructive force in our lives. Many times we become angry unnecessarily because we react to petty annoyances and frustrations: a driver honks his horn at us; someone interrupts us and doesn't pay attention while we're 710 talking; someone doesn't keep a promise to us; the bus we wanted to catch was late; traffic had to get into a snarl when we were hurrying to a plane. If we react to these petty annoyances with anger, resentment, ugly language, self-pity, it is an indication that we are not in complete control of ourselves. Our own peace of mind, the respect of others, and love for each other are destroyed when we fail to control our anger. The Prophet Joseph Smith exemplified self-control. This is evident in the following incident. He was awakened in the middle of the night and dragged outside by about a dozen men who proceeded to tar and feather him. After the horrible ordeal, his wife and friends worked the rest of the night scraping and removing the tar and washing and cleansing his body. The next day was the Sabbath and the people assembled for meeting. In the congregation were some of the mobbers. Still bearing the scars and scratches of the night before, the Prophet preached to the congregation without exhibiting either fear or anger. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co. 1957], 1:261-64.) CONSIDERATION OF OTHERS Are we ever so anxious to be the first in line at a sale that we forget to be courteous? Do we respect others on the highway by observing laws of courtesy as well as_ obeying traffic laws? Do we refrain from unnecessary and lengthy telephone calls and from useless gossip? Do we forget that we can be offensive to others in the little things, such as being late for appointments, talking too long and loudly, and using coarse language? Brigham Young said: If every person who professes to be a Latter-day Saint, was actually a Saint, our home would be a paradise, there would be nothing heard, nothing felt, nothing realized, but praise to the name of our God, doing our duty, and keeping his commandments.... In our daily pursuits in life, of whatever nature and kind, Latter-day Saints, and especially those who hold important positions in the Kingdom of God, should maintain a uniform and even temper, both when at home and when abroad. They should not suffer reverses and unpleasant circumstances to sour their natures and render them fretful and unsocial at home, speaking words full of bitterness and biting acrimony to their wives and children, creating gloom and a Lesson Department sorrow in their habitations, making themselves feared rather than loved by their families. (Discourses of Brigham Young, comp. John A. Widtsoe [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1966], pp. 203-4.) Mothers in Zion must recognize that the mental, moral, and spiritual pattern we establish in our homes will be imitated by our children. We are weaving the character of each child every day through the example we set. If we want our children to be happy, to mature into sound adulthood, and to love us, we must set the proper example before them. They are not just our children; they are individual human beings. They have a right to their opinions. When they speak, they should be listened to as we expect them to listen to us. We should refrain from unnecessary arguments, abusive language, and the tendency to belittle our children as individuals. Quiet, pleasant speech is always in good order. Parents at all times should respect the dignity of their children. CONCLUSION To be refined and courteous, to radiate faith and optimism always, to be warm and accepting, and to control our thoughts and actions will help to bring happiness to those we love and in turn make each one of us a lovelier person. MY PEN Emotion does have many faces, Though they be hid in varied places.