[Vol57 | September 1970 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Home | Title: 682 Autumn Portrait of a Spring and Summer Garden Darlene C. Dedekind]
And  love  these  autumn  hills  into  my  heart. 
— Alice  Money  Bailey 
The  Cover: 
Frontispiece: 
Art  Layout: 
Illustrations: 
Early  Snow 
Transparency  by  Claire  W.  Noall 
Lithographed  in  Full  Color  by  Deseret  News  Press 
Aspens  on  Mount  Timpanogos 
Photograph  by  Hal  Rumel 
Dick  Scopes 
Mary  Scopes

'/VfflA 
I  just  wanted  to  tell  you  how  much  we  enjoy  The  Relief  Society  Magazine.  Our  whole 
family  reads  it.  As  a  home  economics  teacher,  I  find  many  of  the  articles  helpful.  We 
used  the  sourdough  recipes  (February  1970,  by  Edythe  K.  Watson)  in  a  menu  planning 
contest  we  entered.  Our  menus  were  State  winners  in  Wyoming. 
Gilda  Sims  Evanstoh,  Wyoming 
I  was  so  pleased  when  I  opened  the  July  Magazine  and  found  the  story  "Ronna's  Doll," 
by  Norma  Wrathall,  my  niece.  I  have  just  written  to  her  about  it.  This  story  brings 
back  memories  of  the  days  when  the  young  girls  of  our  families  played  house  in  the 
large  bedrooms  upstairs  in  the  old  home.  Those  were  happy  carefree  days.  Every 
issue  of  the  Magazine  is  wonderful.  I  love  the  poems,  especially  the  one  "You  Never 
Knew  I  Kept  All  These,"  by  Alda  Larson  Brown.  I'm  quite  a  "keeper  of  things,"  too.  I 
was  attracted,  also,  by  the  illustrations  for  the  poem.  Mary  Scopes  is  a  delightful 
illustrator.  "Picking  Potawatomies,"  by  Mabel  Luke  Anderson  was  interesting.  How 
we  used  to  enjoy  the  tangy  taste  of  those  plums!  "The  Secret  of  Blueberry  Hill,"  by 
Rosa  Lee  Lloyd  seems  to  be  a  good  one  again,  as  all  of  hers  are. 
Lucy  W.  Jones  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
As  a  child  I  spent  many  happy  hours  in  the  attic  of  my  mother's  home,  searching 
out  the  poems  and  stories  in  her  cherished  and  saved  Relief  Society  Magazines, 
skipping  the  lesson  material  and  preachments,  but  imbibing  a  testimony  of  the  gos- 
pel, nevertheless,  by  the  same  lessons  and  preachments  in  story  and  poetry  form. 
The  Magazine  has  helped  me  to  be  proud  of  being  a  woman,  a  mother,  and  a 
homemaker,  and  prouder  still  of  being  a  Latter-day  Saint  woman. 
Alice  Money  Bailey  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
We  really  appreciate  it  that  the  sisters  in  the  United  States  have  made  it  possible  for 
us  to  receive  the  Relief  Society  Magazine  every  month.  From  this  magazine  we  have 
been  able  to  gain  new  strength  for  our  work  and  new  ideas  for  the  Hamburg  Stake. 
Through  it  we  also  have  gained  connection  to  all  the  sisters  in  the  Church.  To  all 
the  sisters  who  have  donated  the  gift  subscriptions,  we  wish  to  express  our  special 
thanks.  Use  Linds,  Hamburg  Stake  Relief  Society  President 
For  the  first  time  since  I  have  been  in  college  this  semester,  I  have  found  time  to 
read  my  wonderful  Relief  Society  Magazine  from  cover  to  cover.  Of  course,  I  always 
like  to  thumb  through  the  Magazines  and  look  at  the  pictures,  poems,  and  short  stories 
and  the  letters  in  the  From  Near  and  Far  department,  though  I  might  not  have  time 
to  read  any  of  the  articles  at  that  moment.  Because  of  my  schedule  in  college,  I 
cannot  attend  Relief  Society  meetings  as  I  should  like  to  do,  but  the  Magazine  keeps 
my  spirits  intact.  I  wish  to  thank  all  the  people  who  help  to  put  the  Magazine  to- 
gether, and  for  the  dedicated  love  and  work  that  you  do  in  order  to  bring  us  this 
lovely  work  of  art.  Lillie  Hendricks  Big  Spring,  Texas 
I  have  read  with  interest  the  special  feature  "Japan— Lovely  Land  of  Contrasts  (June 
1970,  by  Caroline  Eyring  Miner).  I  am  a  convert  to  the  Church  and  enjoy  The  Relief 
Society  Magazine  very  much.  It  is  a  constant  source  of  strength  and  information.  I 
enjoy  the  lessons  and  articles  on  gardening,  but  hope  sometime  in  the  future  the 
Magazine  will  publish  a  few  articles  on  gardening  in  the  Las  Vegas  area.  Since 
we  have  six  stakes  and  a  growing  membership  in  Relief  Society,  I  am  sure  the  ladies 
would  like  to  know  that  one  can  really  grow  vegetables  in  this  sterile  soil. 
Jean  R.  Jones  Las  Vegas,  Nevada 
642

>1F  S©©0©%? 
Magazine      Volume  57    September  1970     Number  9 
Editor    Marianne  C.  Sharp        Associate  Editor    Vesta  P.  Crawford 
General  Manager    Belle  S.  Spafford 
Special  Features 
644    Temple  Marriage:  The  Lord's  Way    EIRay  L  Christiansen 
667    Seeing  Switzerland     Frances  C.  Yost 
Fiction 
652    And  a  Ray  of  Light  May  Gleam     Lucy  Parr 
660    The  Secret  of  Blueberry  Hill— Chapter  3    Rosa  Lee  Lloyd 
General  Features 
642    From  Near  and  Far 
649  Helen  W.  Jeppson  and  Arlene  S.  Kirton  Appointed  to  the  General  Board  of  Relief  Society 
650  Notice  to  Magazine  Subscribers 
657  Woman's  Sphere    Ramona  W.  Cannon 
658  Editorial— Welcome  the  Call     Marianne  C.  Sharp 
694  Notes  From  the  Field— Relief  Society  Activities 
720  Birthday  Congratulations 
The  Home—Inside  and  Out 
665  Cookies  for  All  Occasions,     Mary  J.  Wilson 
676  Brooches    Edythe  K.  Watson 
677  A  "Different"  Birthday 
678  About  Fish     Linnie  F.  Robinson 
680  An  Heirloom  Quilt    JoAnne  Baker 
681  A  "Bring  and  Brag"  Table     Miriam  M.  Richins 
682  Autumn  Portrait  of  a  Spring  and  Summer  Garden     Darlene  C.  Dedekind