[Vol57 | September 1970 | Page 644 | Special Feature | Temple Marriage: The Lord's Way | EIRay L Christiansen]
643 @ Toa Latter-day Saint, nothing is sO important as to rear his family in such a way as to make possible the associations of its members throughout eternity. God designed marriage in the temples to unite families eternally. It is the institution which makes family life possible. You and I lived in the preexistent world before our mortal lives began. There, we understood that to gain fullness of joy and success it would be necessary for us to be born of earthly parents who would serve as our tutors, advisors, and counselors. Next to the blessings of life is the privilege given of our Father in heaven to direct that life—to accept or reject, to obey or disobey, to choose right or to choose wrong. The right to choose is a choice blessing and at the same time an almost frightening responsibility for in making our choices we 644 Elder ElRay L. Christiansen Assistant to the Council of the Twelve alone determine our destiny in the eternity. The words of a hymn which were written by William C. Gregg set this principle forth in a delightful way. Know this, that every soul is free To choose his life and what he'll be, For this eternal truth is given That God will force no man to heav'n. He'll call, persuade, direct aright, And bless with wisdom, love, and light, In nameless ways be good and kind, But never force the human mind. It is not the purpose or desire of the Lord to have families dissolved: automatically at the end of this life. Rather, it is his purpose and plan to perpetuate family relationships forever! I can think of no concept of truth that is so glorious and so comforting to mortal beings as is this! But he is a God of law and order. Eternal associations of families are realized only upon conformance to the laws, ordinances, and conditions upon which they are promised. For all who will have a _ blessing at my hands shall abide the law which was appointed for that blessing, and the conditions thereof, as were instituted from before the foundation of the world. (D&C 132:5.) BLESSINGS AND DESIRABILITY OF A TEMPLE MARRIAGE The blessings of a temple marriage are numerous. Since such a marriage spans our life on earth as well as eternity, some of these blessings are realized during this life and some in the period of existence yet to come.

Let us enumerate a few of the reasons which make a temple marriage desirable. First: It is the Lord's way and certainly his way is the best way. The first marriage was that of Adam and Eve. It took place while they lived in the Garden of Eden when there was neither mortality nor death. This marriage was performed by the eternal power of God upon which death can place no limitations. Even though Adam and Eve disobeyed the Lord and because of their transgression they became mortal, their marriage survived death. It was an eternal union. Any marriage performed in the temple by an authorized person, and when sealed by the Holy Spirit of promise, which is the Holy Ghost, shall also be "in full force" after death. This is made sure only when the covenants and obligations have been kept through life by the recipients upon whom the blessings and powers were sealed. Temple Marriage:' The Lord's Way This ordinance is the new and everlasting covenant of marriage. This same sealing power was restored in this dispensation by Elijah the Prophet to Joseph Smith (D&C 2:1-3, also D&C 110:13-16), and it has subsequently been given to each successive prophet and president of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints who may personally delegate it to others. Second: Just as baptism is necessary to bring us into the presence of God, so may the sealing of husbands and wives bring them and their faithful children into the family kingdom, which is the celestial realm of glory, and make their exaltation possible. What would heaven be without the association with those we love? Death need not separate husbands and wives, and death will not separate them if they are sealed according to the ordinance of God and if they are faithful thereafter. There is something assuring and exultant in the knowledge and the assurance that though death may part them, yet in the first resurrection they shall come forth and enjoy the blessings and joy of family relationships. Their family will continue forever; there will be no more partings because there will be no more death. Of course, these blessings are realized only when we live in accordance with the laws of the Lord, or as he says: "and if ye abide in my covenant." What disappointment, what regret, what remorse, will be felt by those of us who should, because of neglect or indifference, fail or refuse to enter into the marrlage covenant according to the 

645 September 1970

 way God has designed it! To refuse to enter into such a covenant would end with this life the associations of husbands and wives and parents and their children. But those who receive these powers in worthiness and abide by them shall arise when the Lord shall call them and they will be Christ's at his coming. And in the words of Charles W. Penrose: He will call their sleeping dust to life and they will still be joined together. Not only in spirit and in body be reunited, but as happy parents they will come together again, standing at the head of their posterity as Adam and Eve will stand at the head of the multitude who are quickened and raised from the dead. The eternity of the marriage covenant is a glorious revelation. Third: I have on occasions referred to the temple as "The University of the Lord," because therein we are taught the higher purposes and principles of life. We are there taught the reality of God and our personal relationship to him. In those holy places we are taught that we came to earth by design of our Heavenly Father and that we have a divine destiny, which may be attained by charting our course in life according to the restored gospel and by honoring the laws of the Lord. We are there given a "prescription" for happiness and success. Fourth: After a couple has been sealed in the temple as husband and wife, the children born to them are "born in the covenant," and throughout all eternity are the children of their parents. If the children accept the laws and ordinances of the gospel and live them, they will become legal heirs to the kingdom and to all its blessings and promises. The same assuranceis given tochildren 646 sealed to parents who have joined the Church and are sealed as husband and wife after their children are born. In such cases a binding ordinance sealing the children to their parents is administered. Sealed couples who adopt children by civil processes may lave the same privilege. It is inconsistent to consider rearing children with all the care and attention that is required, and then have no claim on them when death comes. This truth gives solace and comfort to the bereaved. Fifth: In the temple we may draw near to the Lord, for after all, it is his house. His spirit is there and gives to the humble and pure, strength through meditation, prayer, and revealed truth. Sixth: The very fact that those who expect to enter the temple must be qualified as to their worthiness is in itself a blessing. The realization that we go to the temple because we are worthy, not necessarily to get worthy, motivates young people to seek the decent things of life. President David O. McKay once said:... The best and noblest lives are those which are set toward high ideals. Surely no higher ideal regarding marriage can be cherished by young people, than to look upon it as a divine institution. In the minds of the young, such a standard is a protection to them in courtship, an ever-present influence inducing them to refrain from doing anything which may prevent their going to the temple to have their love consummated in an enduring and eternal union. (Gospel Ideals, p. 462.) Latter-day Saints who are married in the temple have found added strength to resist evil. This comes from their participation in the higher ordinances and in actually committing themselves to live more Christ-like lives. Such individuals will find that such affirmation made together provides a bond for their marriage which life's worst vicissitudes will only strengthen. There is no more solemn commitment in time or in eternity than marriage vows made in the temple. No force nor power lifts us so high as the keeping of those commitments. THE ROLE OF PARENTS Preparation for life, proper living, and happiness begin in the home! Preparation and plans for marrying the proper person in the proper place should be part of the home training. It is unwise, to say the least, for parents to leave to chance or to others the obligations and privilege of instructing and training their sons and daughters in matters which have such far-reaching effects upon their future as does marriage. If every girl and boy were taught fully to understand the lofty concept of eternal marriage they would want no other. It is not solemnized with the worldly glamor and pageantry, or for show or social prestige, and is not witnessed by a church filled with spectators. It is performed in the presence of parents, oftentimes grandparents, and a few close friends in a lovely sealing room, where that transcendentally beautiful ordinance, in which is given the blessing of association for time and eternity, along with other marvelous powers, outweighs all other provisions offered elsewhere. Temple Marriage: The Lord's Way A young woman or a young man will never marry out of the temple if she or he is sufficiently taught and is fully determined not to do so. How can parents teach and influence their sons and daughters so they will look forward toward marriage and then live to be worthy of it? 1. Start while they are young. Let your warm influence be felt in their formative years. In your own way explain the desirability of a marriage in the temple. 2. Provide for them reading material including talks and articles on the subject by General Authonities. 3. You should teach your children the advisability of associating with those of their own faith and _ religion. Companions in marriage are usually selected from the group with whom they associate. 4. Set a proper example! Create a home that has as its foundation kindness, courtesy, honesty, truthfulness, forgiveness, and apologies. Let your children see in you the sacredness of marriage. As parents, avoid backbiting, criticizing, and disputations. Someone said, "Live with a wolf long enough and you'll learn to howl." So it is with children. They acquire the traits of their parents. 5. Have the wisdom to use the divinely given program, the family home evenings, to help you reach and teach your sons and daughters. 6. Gradually help your children to realize that they lived before they were born—that they are here to determine where and under what conditions they will live after this life ends. Usually this causes them to think and that is good. 7. Plan and do worthwhile things as a family. 8. At the proper time and in the proper way help them to maintain the highest regard for virtue and chastity. The Lord has not withdrawn that divine commandment, "Thou shalt not commit adultery."" Make sure that they realize that happiness can come only through obedience. 

647 September 1970

 9. Let your children hear you pray for them! Plead with the Lord for their welfare—spiritual and otherwise. President Harold B. Lee once told this heart-warming story: I am thinking of that Mother blessed with a family of girls who kneeled down each night and prayed to God that somewhere there would be a mother rearing some sons worthy to become the husbands of her daughters, and then, the daughters finally married. Intalking with the mothers of the sons, she found that those mothers had been praying ever since their boys were born that somewhere God would be preparing some girls worthy to become the wives of their sons. I say to you, brethren and sisters, such lofty concepts of home, family, and the responsibilities of home and family, are certain guarantees to a happy and successful home. (Conference Report, October 1948, pp. 53-54.) Our sons and daughters may forget much that we tell them, but surely the daily pleading with the Lord of a father or a mother for the protection and guidance of their children will be an everlasting influence upon them. 10. Finally, let them realize the importance of temple ordinances by seeing their parents go frequently to the temple to bring similar blessings to those who have died. Now, the thought may enter the minds of some as to the status of those unmarried women who would have entered into the marriage covenant, but have not had opportunity to do so, under the proper conditions. I take the liberty to quote here a beautiful statement made by President Joseph Fielding Smith in regard to this. Said he: You good sisters who are single and alone, do not fear, do not feel that blessings are going to be withheld from you. You are not under any obligation or necessity of accepting some proposal that comes to you which is distasteful for fear you will come under condemnation. If in your hearts you feel that the gospel is true, and would under proper conditions receive these ordinances and _ sealing blessings in the temple of the Lord, and that is your faith and your hope and your desire, and that does not come to you now, the Lord will make it up, and you _ shall be _ blessed—for no blessing shall be withheld. The Lord will judge you according to the desires of your hearts when blessings are withheld, and he is not going to condemn you for that which you cannot help. (Elijah the Prophet and His Mission, p. 51.) The eternity of the marriage covenant is indeed a _ glorious revelation!