[Vol57 | September 1970 | Page 702 | General Feature | Spiritual Living— The Premortality of Mankind | ]
[Spiritual Living— The Premortality of Mankind]

of every creature? From this reading it would seem that he was the oldest of the whole human family, that is, so far as his birth in the spirit world is concerned. How long ago since that birth took place is not revealed; it might have been unnumbered millions of years for aught we know. But we do know that he was bom and was the oldest of the family of spirits.... Does this refer to the birth of the body of flesh and bones? By no means, for there were hundreds of millions who were born upon our earth before the body of flesh and bones was born whom we call Jesus. How is it, then, that he is our elder brother? We must go back to the previous birth, before the. Foundation of this earth; we have to go back to past ages, to the period when he was begotten of the Father among the great family of spirits. (JD, 18:290.) The following word of caution was expressed by the First Presidency and Council of the Twelve Apostles on June 30, 1916, concerning the status of the Redeemer and our relationship to him as our Brother: There is no impropriety, therefore, in speaking of Jesus Christ as_ the Elder Brother of the rest of human kind.... Let it not be forgotten, however, that He is essentially greater than any and all others by reason (1) of his seniority as the oldest or firstborn; (2) of his unique status in the flesh as the offspring of a mortal mother and of an immortal, or resurrected and glonified, Father; (3) of his selection and foreordination as the one and only Re- 

703 September 1970

 Spirits who have ta bodies Upon this earth, for He is them. He is The Son, as they are Sons or daughters of Elohim. A Articles Of Fait, » PP. 472.73 ) Class Discussion THE SPIRITS OF MEN ARE ETERNAL The Lord revealed to Abraham that Spirits are eternal, for they SNal] exist after, are snolaum, or eternal " (Abr. 3:] 7-18.) It wa the Prophet Joseph Smith Ww revelation, also 3 received Information Concerning the eternity Its: m O the immo al spirit. Where did it come from? All learned Men and doctors of divinity Say that Created it In the beginning: but it js Ot so: the Very idea lessens man in my estimation, I do not believe the doc ne; I know better. Hear It, all ye €nds of the Orld; for God has told me > and if yoy don't believe me, It wil] t mak the truth Without effect, or the intelligence Which Sses is CO-equal [co-eternal] With God himself ~ yet that it b nning? The in telligen no ginning, neither ll it have an end.. There never was a time when there re not Spirits; foy they are CO-equa] [co-eternal] With Our Fa er - in heaven, (Joseph Fielding Smith, Comp., Teachings Of the Prophet Joseph Smith [Salt Lake City: eseret News Press, 1956], PP. 352-53. ) T made, Neither jn. + For man IS spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit element, in €parably Connected fulness of joy; and when Separated, Man that a question of this kind Was asked of the Firs the Church in 1912, and the fo]- lowing reply en: ed in the spiritual personality as the sons or daughters of the Eternal Father. (See Pearl of Great Price, Chap. 3, verses 5-7.) Jesus Christ was the Firstborn. A spirit born of God is an immortal being. When the body dies the spirit does not die. (Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine {Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1968], p. 12.) President Joseph Fielding Smith wrote this observation concerning intelligence and spirit: Some of our writers have endeavored to explain what an intelligence is, but to do so is futile, for we have never been given any insight into this matter beyond what the Lord has fragmentarily revealed. We know, however, that there is something called intelligence which always existed. It is the real eternal part of man, which was not created or made. This intelligence combined with the spirit constitutes a spiritual identity or individual. The spirit of man, then, is a combination of the intelligence and the spirit which is an entity begotten of God. (Joseph Fielding Smith, The Progress of Man [Salt Lake City: Genealogical Society of Utah, 1936], p. 11.) VALUE OF THE DOCTRINE OF MAN'S ETERNITY Some "Christian" churches do not accept the doctrine that man lived a pre-earth life. Because of this fact, anti-Christian writers have reasoned that man had no voice nor choice in his creation; therefore, he cannot, in justice— an attribute of God—be held responsible for what he does in sinning. The conclusion reached by them is that the "Christian" God is unjust. The fact that premortality teaches that man lived for countless ages, in fact, forever before this life as an intelligence and spirit being, holds the answer to Many questions of man's earthlife, including the argument of anti-Christian writers. Lesson Department PREMORTALITY AND EARTH LIFE Unto Abraham the Lord said that Abraham was one of those in the premortal life who was "good," and, therefore, he was selected as a "ruler"—'"chosen before thou wast born." (Abr. 3:22-23.) This fact is an example of what we observe in this life— the differences among people as to intelligence, dispositions, and talents. Are these differences to be considered as having their origin in the earth-life? The answer is found in a number of discussions by Latter-day Saint authorities who have considered that the earth-life is but a continuation of the life before this one, and that there is a carryover from the former existence. Elder James E. Talmage said: Every spirit born in the flesh is an individual character, and brings to the body prepared for its tenancy a nature all its own. The tendencies, likes and dislikes, in short the whole disposition of the spirit may be intensified or changed by the course of mortal life, and the spirit may advance or retrograde while allied with its mortal tabernacle. The spirit lived as an _ organized intelligence before it became the embodied child of human parents; and its preexistent individualism will be of effect in its period of earth life. Even though the manifestations of primeval personality be largely smothered under the tendencies due to bodily and prenatal influence, it is there, and makes its mark. (The Vitality of Mormonism [Boston: Gorham Press, 1948), p. 232.) In a modern revelation, it is said that every spirit was innocent in the beginning. (D&C 93:38.) This truth indicates that each person is given a start on the way to eternal perfection. The fact that there were differences among the sons and daughters of 

705 September 1970

 God in premortality does not suggest that all are not considered precious in his sight. It does mean, however, that he will and does give them opportunities for development in earth-life commensurate with their capacities. He looks upon the apparent superiority of some spirits over others, as given in the following remarks by Elder Parley P. Pratt: Although some eternal intelligences may be superior to others, and although some are more noble, and consequently are elected to fill certain useful and necessary Offices for the good of others, yet the greater and the less may both be innocent, and both be justified, and be useful, each in their own capacity; if each magnify their own calling, and act in their own capacity, it is all right. (JD, 1:258.) These thoughts remind one of what the Lord said to Abraham concerning the differences among his premortal children. (Abr. 3:18-19.) It should be remembered that the reference to "intelligences" is. To an identity we each have composed of our spirit and that part of our eternal nature presently referred to as "intelligence." It is not intended to convey the impression that status in his kingdom or in the Church is based on intellectual capacity, a phrase often equated with intelligence. Many other qualities and virtues, love, faith, humility, patience, kindness, self-effacement, etc. Are as significant in terms of our relationships with God and with others as is intellectual capacity. The term "superior" used in reference to those called to positions of leadership must be construed to mean that they are better qualified to lead, but not necessarily that they are "su- 706 perior" in terms of spirituality or moral qualities. Class Discussion Since all are given opportunities in this life and, since man's conduct in one 'life conditions him for the life that follows, what responsibility does this place upon each of us? FOREORDINATION The premortal sons and daughters of God were foreordained to responsible positions in earth-life because as we have been taught, there was a development of traits and also a testing in the former life. (Orson F. Whitney, Saturday Night Thoughts [Salt Lake City: Deseret News, 1921], pp. 127-29; Joseph Fielding Smith, The Way to Perfection [Salt Lake City: Genealogical Society of Utah, 1935], pp. 50-53.) Elder Orson F. Whitney wrote that the doctrine of rewards and punishments taught in the scriptures applied in the pre-appointment of people to positions of responsibility. (Gal. 6:7.) Examples of this principle of preappointment are (1) Jeremiah and Joseph Smith, as well as Abraham (Jer. 1:5; 2 Ne. 2:22-26); (2) many priesthood bearers (Al. 13:3); (3) the wise men who were raised up to write the Constitution of the United States (D&C 101:80). Elder Talmage expressed the belief that God's knowledge of his sons and daughters in the preearth life was very extensive. He could "see the end of their earthly career even from the first." (Talmage, The Articles of Faith, p. 191.) He also wrote: "Everyone of us was known by name and character to the Father, who is 'the God of the spirits of all flesh' (Numbers 16: 22; 27:16), in our antemortal or primeval childhood; and from among the hosts of His unembodied children God chose for special service on earth such as were best suited to the accomplishment of His _ purposes." (Talmage, The Vitality of Mormonism, p. 229.) Notwithstanding this acquaintanceship and foreknowledge, Elder Talmage wrote: "God's knowledge of spiritual and of human nature enables Him to conclude with certainty as to the actions of any of His children under given conditions; yet that knowledge is not of compelling force upon the creature." (Talmage, The Articles of Faith, p. 191.) f The Prophet Joseph Smith was foreordained to one of the most important missions of this life. That even he could have failed to fulfill this calling is evidenced in a revelation given in 1830 to Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon. (D&C 35:18.) Referring to Joseph Smith we read the following: "... If he abide in me, and if not, another will I plant in _his stead." (Italics added.) Class Discussion 1. Discuss briefly the foregoing scripture (D&C 35:18) as to man's free agency. 2. Discuss the value of your knowledge of the doctrine of foreordination as it should influence the quality of your daily living. SECULAR EVENTS As one considers further the importance of the doctrine of premortality, including foreordination, he is able to see that the Lord is directing the affairs of Lesson Department men not only in religious events but also in other areas of the earth life. The Prophet Joseph Smith once said: Every man who has a calling to minister to the inhabitants of the world was ordained to that very purpose in the Grand Council of heaven before this world was. (DHC, 6:364.) As one thinks of the many prophecies concerning events of a secular nature, one is immediately brought to realize that many happenings concerning America were made known to Book of Mormon prophets centuries before they became history. Some examples of these are found in the vision given to Nephi, such as the coming of Columbus (1 Ne. 13: 12), the Pilgrims (1 Ne. 13:13-16), the Revolutionary War (1 Ne. 13:17-19), the destiny of America as a promised land (1 Ne. 13:17- 19; 2 Ne. 1:1-9; 10:19; Eth. 13:1-10.) SUMMARY We lived for countless ages before we were born on this earth. This important truth, revealed anew, but only partially made known in the Bible, stands as one of the most meaningful doctrines restored in these last days. As spirit beings we lived with our Eternal Father where we were nurtured in principles of truth with the understanding that we would receive an earth-life in which we would prove our loyalty to the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. With this concept we are able to understand the purpose of our existence as well as our potential status as eternal beings. Born of Deity, we may reach the 

707 September 1970

 heights of godhood by obedience to the laws of progression. ~ We may also recognize that from the other side of the veil we have brought gifts and talents to be developed, acted upon, and used for the betterment of ourselves, our associates, and to advance the kingdom of God. The truth is that our life here is purposeful; we are here not by chance but by design; consequently, we have a mission, foreordained, to become eternal mothers and eternal fathers, but only on condition that we accept our responsibilities in this life as God has revealed them. The children born to us here are precious sons and daughters of God, lent to us that they might be strengthened in true principles to receive the opportunity to return home, having fulfilled the purpose. Of their creation. As to the world at large, we may understand, in part, how God governs this world through sending spirits of varying grades of capability to earth in time and in place. We are able to understand wherein God is just because the differences we find among men in this world were, by and large, differences which existed in the premortal life. Man, as a free agent, may choose the path of degradation or exaltation, but God has given him an opportunity to prove himself amid conditions which man anticipated, for he elected to come to this earth-life. (Joseph F.