[Vol57 | September 1970 | Page 667 | Special Feature | Seeing Switzerland Frances | C. Yost]
Seeing Switzerland—Land of Peace larly each morning at four a bird chorus serenades us. This is not a simple "tweet-tweet." One listening can recognize alto, tenor, bass, and soprano. With such melodious overtures from tiny throats, I realize again the multiplicity of sights and sounds in this lovely land. Switzerland attracts song birds, and they are protected and fed. THE MOUNTAINS AND THE VALLEYS It is from this Gerber home we go forth each day, or for a period of three days at a time, to view the whole of beautiful Switzerland. Someone more wise than I once said "When you visit the people, leave your heart, not words." This I find I must do, for, too often, we only understand with our hearts and eyes and smiles. However, I have a few essential words of German and French, and learn a few more as the days pass. Rested and refreshed, Ernst drives us to the top of one of the smaller mountains. Looking over the valley, one wonders if it is not as God created it. Sunbeams play on field and stream, on fern and shrub, evergreens and edelweiss, the Swiss national flower. In this setting is a huge white wishing rock. At a farm home we stop to see friends of Ernst and Grandpa. It is haying time. Swiss hay is more like wild grass than alfalfa. A young Swiss frau, wearing a dress and no gloves, is feeding the hay into a chopping machine. With a fork, her husband is pitching the chopped hay into a wire silage container, where the patriarch of the family is stacking it. Upon our arrival, the father leaves the work for the younger folks, and he shows us around. His herd of fine Brown Swiss cows awaiting milking are in the barn. We go around the chalet and enter the family quarters. He introduces his wife, who is busy preparing herbs for winter. The kitchen is clean. At one end of the room is a table with two benches which seat at least sixteen. At the far end is an electric stove, and a large built-in oven which would accommodate many huge loaves of bread at one baking. One entire wall is lined with cupboards. The Swiss frau serves us large slices of brown bread, while her husband pours apple juice. This farmer has a small tractor. Most farmers still use horses, or do all their own labor. Farms cannot be broken up among the family. Usually the youngest son takes over when his father is too old to work. Farms cannot be sold for building lots. Trees cannot be cut except when marked by an official tree surgeon. Dead trees are never left standing. OVERLOOKING THE RHINE RIVER Picture yourself standing with me on a high building 'to view the river. Here boats and barges move steadily. To our right is Germany, to our left is France, and we stand on the tip of Switzerland in the 

669 September 1970

 Basel area. The Canal Du Rhone has been cut through France from the Rhine River to the Mediterranean Sea. When the Suez Canal was operating, many small ships took this route to the Far East. Afternoon of the same day finds us hiking up a mountain to a medieval castle. Ernst gives a lesson in hiking—a slow steady pace, bending the knees slightly and flexing the muscles. As we walk he tells that when he was a very young man during World War I, he was a guide for mountain climbers. The second castle we visit is one which we can drive right up to in the car. The Swiss government preserves these ancient castles, some more than 600 years old, for everyone to enjoy. Often sharecroppers live in houses on the castle grounds. They raise the crops they desire on a sharecrop basis with the government. Trachselwald Castle in the Langnau area was painstakingly built of stone, in fort fashion, high on a hill. The castle rooms encircle a small courtyard where carriages of yesteryear could be safely kept inside the gate. Leading down from the castle proper is a long winding wooden stairway, with overhead shelter. At a lower level yet high on the hill, are several quaint old homes of ancient red brick. We are given a detailed tour—the room where school was held when the castle was in use; the smoke room above the fireplace where hams were cured. Fine old chests are found in each room. Their designs are ornate, and often they have carved or painted names, initials, and dates of long ago. Many fine old churches dot this inland country. Though we visit many, I will mention but one. The Mariastein Chapel was erected in 1636. The interior is well preserved and is rich with gold and statues. A steep stone stairway winds its way deep into the earth where other areas of worship are to be seen. Art is important to the Swiss. The art center in Basel is outstanding. These people did not wait for a grant from the government to buy fine art. Everyone raised money. Even little children contributed. Here Picasso's finest art is displayed. I buy small prints of original paintings which I especially like: Han Kuber's "La Famille," Rembrandt's "David Before King Saul," Vincent Van Gogh's "Mademoiselle at the Piano,' Pable Picasso's "Harlequin," to name a few. Shopping in the quaint stores is most enjoyable. Clerks are so patient, so helpful. At the cleaners the clothes are folded and wrapped. Eggs are purchased at the bakery. People are busy going places, there seems to be little loitering. They are happy, neat, and clean. Long hair and mini skirts are not seen. Seldom do we see a person smoking on the streets. If someone were accidently to drop a piece of paper, the next person would pick it up. Road signs are clever drawings rather than the printed word. Crosswalks will have a picture of a man walking. A school zone sign pictures children crossing. If road repairs are being made a sign portrays it. One sees a picture easier than he would read a sign. Little folks and foreigners can understand pictures. 670 Seeing Switzerland—Land of Peace GENEVA After spending Sunday with the saints at Basel, we start out for Geneva. The car ride is some 200 miles over hill and dale for we choose the scenic route instead of the autoban. The beautiful earth is dotted with ancient churches, castles, and huge red-roofed chalets. Grandpa explains that in times past a family was rated by the size of the roof. So, for social esteem, they put the animals and home under one large red-tile roof. We stop for lunch at Neichatel, a beautiful city on the shores of a lake by the same name. At length we come to the clear mirror-blue lake of Geneva. We realize that we have left the German-speaking area, and are now in the French. Even the architecture is different. Here at Geneva we are dinner guests of Malue Gerber and her handsome French husband Remy Dufour, and their two little girls. Malue, like her father, can sit at the table and direct the conversation in three or more languages. I have the honored seat next to the host, who speaks perfect French and German, but no English. It is difficult for me not to be able to converse with little children, but I have an abundance of balloons in my purse and they are enjoyed by little folks wherever I go. Our tour of Geneva takes us to the Red Cross Building and the League of Nations, to name but two. The Swiss Temple is located at Zollikofen, a suburb of Berne, the capital. This much appreciated edifice was dedicated September 11, 1955, by President McKay. President Walter Trauffer is a fine sociable man. It is German-speaking day at the temple and I enjoy every moment of it. A CHALET HOME Next morning, after a delicious continental breakfast garnished with a generous serving of Swiss cheese, we start for the high mountains to see Grandpa's birthplace. Like most chalet homes, it houses family and animals under the same roof. We see the room where Grandpa was born. It is a rare occasion in Switzerland when a home goes out of the family, as Grandpa's did seventy-three years ago when his family came to Utah as converts to the gospel. Up the mountain from Grandpa's old home we walk to call on cousins. We also walk down the hill to call on others. Again I see the joy Grandpa's coming brings to them. How swiftly their voices thrill over the Swiss words. What fine refreshments they bring forth to share with us. LUCERNE Lucerne is a large tourist attraction. We travel there by car. An oil-topped winding road takes us high on a peak overlooking Lake Lucerne, which reaches out like fingers on a hand. This is the home 

671 September 1970

 of movie stars and other Americans who have looked the world over for a heavenly place. Here at Lucerne is the famous old bridge across the Vierwaldstadter. The bridge was built originally in the sixteenth-. Century and skirts the prison tower which was built in the same period. Recently the bridge has been rebuilt, with the old rustic flavor still intact. In the gables of the bridge are more than a hundred triangular oil paintings depicting the history and legends of the surrounding country. We find one concerning Joachim Schumacher Yost. It is a swordfighting picture with the castle they defend in the background. The inscription when translated reads: "Call God for assistance who can give the victory." Lucerne is the gateway to the mountain climbing areas which have made this tiny country famous. The Jungfrau, with its great white peak the year around, stands serene. The Matterhorn challenges climbers from all over the world. The Zermatt is sought out by artists for its sheer, lofty beauty. It is on this trip I learn the difference in mountain climbing and mountain hiking: Climbers use the ropes and the chisel and go straight up the sheer walls. THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS IN SWITZERLAND Since the beginning of a mission of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in Switzerland, there have been forty faithful men serve as presidents of the mission. Often the other countries affiliated had mission work disrupted during the two World Wars, but in Switzerland missionary work was maintained, though curtailed, during those critical times. Elder M. Elmer Christensen is presently serving as president of the Swiss Mission, with headquarters in Zurich. Here a beautiful mission headquarters is located. President Christensen states regarding the mission: The Swiss Mission has been designated by that term and has been existing as a separate mission from all other combinations during the following periods: November 24, 1851 to January 1854; January 1898 to 1904; February 1940 to April 1946; August 15, 1960 to the present time. There are now 4,672 members of the Church in the Swiss Mission. Of that number 3.577 are in Switzerland and 1,095 live in other areas under Swiss Mission supervision, which include Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Greece, Israel, Lebanon, Turkey, Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Poland, Hungary, Egypt. There are 450 members of the Relief Society in Switzerland and 600 in the total Swiss Mission. Sister Melba M. Christensen is supervisor of the Relief Society in the Swiss Mission. Sister Margaret Becker is president of the Relief Society in the Swiss Stake, and Sister Suzanne Daetwyler is president of the Bern-Lucern District Relief Society. The Swiss Stake was officially organized on the 27th of October 1961 by Elders Henry D. Moyle and Alvin R. Dyer of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The time has come to say goodbye to a beautiful land and her people—Switzerland, land of peace. 672 Typical hotel and restaurant in Langnau, Switzerland Ernst Gerber home in Arlesheim, Switzerland I ADH De 3 ee > ie AGERE G ~ re Hh I Lake Geneva, the largest lake in Switzerland, surrounded by magnificent mountains. Castle at Arlesheim, typical of the many castles in Switzerland. Note how small the carriages had to be to pass through this gate. The castles are preserved for the enjoyment of the Swiss people and for tourists. Old Tower Bridge at Lucerne. The tower, anciently, was used to house prisoners. Beneath the gables of this famous bridge are more than a hundred paintings depicting the history and legends of the surrounding country. Gabled roof of the Tower Bridge, showing historic painting and inscriptions. My. & <=. Wilk it Une le Owes e. Demdy evi \kcn Vex Brooches— -Lovely to Look atFasy to Mak Edythe K. Watson Member, General Board of Relief Society A love of things beautiful has ever been an inherent quality in women. The feminine desire for adornment appears to have been present throughout all ages of civilization. Today one need only to browse among the shops and market places in most any part of the world to find them full of interesting, colorful jewelry, typical of that country and its culture. Though much of the jewelry displayed may be relatively new in design and finish, many of the most attractive pieces are replicas or adaptations of an older craftsmanship. Though probably relatively new in design and finish, they are all replicas, reproductions, or adaptations of the jewelry of some ancient era.. One of the earliest and most useful articles of jewelry was the brooch or pin (known to the Romans as a fibula). Irrespective of name, evidences have been found substantiating their existence and use by the earliest civilizations. They were a necessary invention, since their orginal function was to fasten parts of clothing together. Museum exhibits show fascinating examples of early Egyptian, Roman, and AngloSaxon creations. Some designs undoubtedly served as a basis for the present day safety pin. Down through the centuries as the mode of dress changed, the brooch cr pin became a most valued article. Historians tell us that at one time in early England these pins became so valuable and scarce that they were offered for sale but once each year and then for just two days. Undoubtedly women planned for this important event by carefully saving their money or, if they were fortunate, their husbands provided the necessary funds. The money used came to be known as "pin money" a term which we hear and frequently use today. Modern women have found the brooch a simple yet lovely accessory to a costume. Most of us remember a special brooch worn by our mothers or grandmothers. I have fond memonies of a small delicately hand-painted oval one and a large impressive cameo brooch worn by the grandmothers in our family.