[Vol57 | September 1970 | Page 709 | Poem | Lament, Oneita | B. Sumsion]
September 1970

Montana-Wyoming Mission, Rapid City Branch (South Dakota) Presents "The Stranger Within Our Gates"
May 16, 1970

Seated in front: Bernard Lamke.
Seated, left to right: Julie Molen, cultural refinement class leader and director; Shirley Lamke; Darlene Hubbard; Bruce Molen, District Councilman.
Standing, left to right: Sheryl Weyland, President, Rapid City Branch Relief Society; Sandra Weiss; Chris Farmer; Dixie Davis, chorister.
Freda J. Leckie, President, Montana-Wyoming Mission Relief Society, reports: "Members of the Rapid City Branch Relief Society presented the dramatization 'The Stranger Within Our Gates' at the Black Hills District Relief Society Annual Visiting Teachers Convention.
"Service to the sisters was stressed by District President Deanne P. Kelly who thanked the sisters for their devotion. A luncheon was served and each sister was presented with a potted plant."

Boise Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present "An Evening With Song"
February 21, 1970

At far right of second row in dark dresses: Delores Lowder, stake organist; Joan Grover, stake chorister.
Standing at right: Genevieve Cresswell, narrator.
Lucile Johnson, President, Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our Singing Mothers numbered sixty-five, representing ten wards and one branch. We were assisted by several musicians in the stake.
"The songs on the program told of the beauties of the earth. There were patriotic selections, a parade of flags, and a climax of spiritual songs. The narration featured several inspiring poems and included a tribute to Relief Society and Singing Mothers.
"It was a delightful evening, thoroughly enjoyed by all in attendance."

Ashley Stake (Utah) Vernal Sixth Ward Holds "A Family Affair" Bazaar, April 23, 1970

Front row, left to right: Louise Baxter; Birda Merkley; Shirley Duncan; Betty Stagg; Marilyn Oscarson; Shirley Millett; Glenna Adams; Venice Rooks; Mazie Christensen.
Back row left to right: Elizabeth Jackson; Elva Allred, homemaking leader, Vernal Sixth Ward Relief Society; Ila Angus; Loretta Reynolds, First Counselor; Carolyn Ellis, President; Birdie Searle, Second Counselor; Joan Robbins, Secretary-Treasurer.
Delores Merkley, President, Ashley Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Vernal Sixth Ward of our stake held a very successful bazaar with the theme 'A Family Affair.' There were booths to entice every member of the family, and a turkey dinner was served."