[Vol57 | September 1970 | Page 694 | General Feature | Notes From the Field— Relief | Society Activities]
Relief Society Activities Since The Relief Society Magazine will discontinue publication with the December 1970 issue, stake Relief Society presidents and mission Relief Society supervisors are advised to make no further submissions of 'Notes From the Field," inasmuch as a sufficient number of Notes are already on hand for the remaining issues of the Magazine. Palm Springs Stake (California), Banning Ward Turns Back Clock To Celebrate Relief Society Birthday March 17, 1970 Banning Ward Relief Society officers, left to right: June Brower, First Counselor; Lorna Cox, President; Colleen Mirci, Second Counselor; Leda Farley, Secretary-Treasurer, representing the original officers. Myrtle Oborn, former President, Palm Springs Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Banning Ward of our stake conducted a meeting in the manner, dress, and style that the first Relief Society meeting was conducted in 1842, using the original minutes as a guideline for a script written by Sandra Stolle. "An old-fashioned dinner was served, and impromptu entertainment as well as planned poems, songs, and pantomimes were enjoyed by all." Pauline Jackson is the new President of Palm Springs Stake Relief Society. Florida Mission, Suwannee District Honors Visiting Teachers May 9, 1970 Front row, left to right: Agnes Dickman, visiting teacher message leader, Florida Mission Relief Society; J. Murray Rawson, Mission President; Anna G. Rawson, Relief Society Supervisor; Ouida Williams, First Counselor; Tottie R. Brown, President, Suwannee District Relief Society; Vela Hawkins, Second Counselor; Ruth Allen, SecretaryTreasurer. Sister Rawson reports: ''The visiting teachers of the Suwannee District of the Florida Mission were honored for their services at a lovely program and luncheon held at Live Oak, Florida. The theme for the convention was 'Our Visiting Teachers —Angels of Mercy.' 'Dolls representing visiting teachers engaged in many compassionate services were used as decorations. Many of the sisters had to travel many miles to attend this convention, just as they travel many miles to carry out their calling.'' 

694 September 1970

 Box Elder Stake (Utah) Relief Society Holds Fashion Show, March 26, 1970 Front row, left to right: Joyce Whitten, homemaking leader, Eleventh Ward Relief Society; Lennidean Christensen, First Ward homemaking jeader. Back row, left to right: Dorothy Jeppsen, Mantua Ward President; Marva Frost, Ninth Ward homemaking leader; Chloe Sheffield, stake homemaking leader, \va Lou Hansen, Second Ward homemaking leader; Mary Lou Call, Sixth Ward. Bernice K. Rasmussen, President, Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A fashion show, 'Around the Clock Fashions for the Latter-day Saint Woman,' featured lovely fashions modeled by children, young mothers, and grandmothers. "Each ward had its own cleverly written script to present the fashions made by the sisters. Organ music was played during the program by LaRaine Petersen. The Ninth "Ward Singing Mothers presented two numbers with Naone Godfrey as chorister and Janet Long, organist. Refreshments were served and an enjoyable afternoon was spent by' all."' Chicago South Stake (Illinois) Relief Society Presents First Singing Mothers Concert April 24, 1970 Beryl A. Nisbet, President, Chicago South Stake Relief Society, reports: "Sixty Singing Mothers directed by Nada Hall, stake chorister, and accompanied by stake organist Margy Randel, performed their first concert. "In addition to nine numbers performed by the chorus, several vocal solos, a children's chorus, a string quartet, and a vocal reading were featured. "We enjoyed learning and performing together this beautiful music, and were rewarded by a large appreciative audience and an invitation to provide music for stake quarterly conference." I Ensign Stake (Utah), East Eighteenth Ward Relief Society Honors Wives Of All Church Presidents, March 23, 1970 Front row, left to right: Gwen E. Shurtleff, Second Counselor, Ensign Stake Relief Society Presidency; Ferne G. Hunter, First Counselor, Ruth E. Cutler, President; Jessie Evans Smith, wife of President Joseph Fielding Smith, Loa MacKay, President, East Eighteenth Ward Relief Society; Beth Miller, First Counselor; Margaret Reynolds, Second Counselor. Back row, left to right: Olena Harris; Tasma Dansie; Wilhelmina Freeman; Georgiana Brandley, ida Heywood; Mary MacKay; Vera Ellis; Beth Allen. Sister Cutler reports: "The East Eighteenth Ward of our stake paid tribute to the wives of the Presidents of the Church. A large picture of each sister was displayed on the wall, and they were portrayed by a sister in the ward (pictured) dressed in an authentic or original costume. "Sister Jessie Evans Smith, a member of the Eighteenth Ward Relief Society, was a special guest and her presence added much to the program, especially as she sang vocal solos. "Fach sister representing the wife of a president had done personal research and presented interesting anecdotes and stories about these loyal wives. The Singing Mothers directed by Tasma Dansie and accompanied by Lula Alldredge sang appropriate numbers and a ljuncheon was served."' 696 Are a agi (A =" » September 1970 Montana-Wyoming Mission, Rapid City Branch (South Dakota) Presents ''The Stranger Within Our Gates" May 16, 1970 Seated in front: Bernard Lamke. Seated, left to right: Julie Molen, cultural refinement class leader and director; Shirley Lamke; Darlene Hubbard; Bruce Molen, District Councilman. Standing, left to right: Sheryl Weyland, President, Rapid City Branch Relief Society; Sandra Weiss; Chris Farmer; Dixie Davis, chorister. Freda J. Leckie, President, Montana-Wyoming Mission Relief Society, reports: 'Members of the Rapid City Branch Relief Society presented the dramatization 'The Stranger Within Our. Gates' at the Black Hills District Relief Society Annual Visiting Teachers Convention. "Service to the sisters was stressed by District President Deanne P. Kelly who thanked the sisters for their devotion. A luncheon was served and each sister was presented with a potted plant.'' Boise Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present "'An Evening With Song" February 21, 1970 At far right of second row in dark dresses: Delores Lowder, stake organist; Joan Grover, stake chorister. Standing at right: Genevieve Cresswell, narrator. Lucile Johnson, President, Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: 'Our Singing Mothers numbered sixty-five, representing ten wards and one branch. We were assisted by several musicians in the stake. "The songs on the program told of the beauties of the earth. There were patriotic selections, a parade of flags, and a climax of spiritual songs. The narration featured several inspiring poems and included a tribute to Relief Society and Singing Mothers. "It was a delightful evening, thoroughly enjoyed by all in attendance."' Ashley Stake (Utah) Vernal Sixth Ward Holds "A Family Affair'' Bazaar, April 23, 1970 Front row, left to right: Louise Baxter; Birda Merkley; Shirley Duncan; Betty Stagg; Marilyn Oscarson; Shirley Millett; Glenna Adams; Venice Rooks; Mazie Christensen. Back row left to right: Elizabeth Jackson; Elva Allred, homemaking leader, Vernal Sixth Ward Relief Society; lla Angus; Loretta Reynolds, First Counselor; Carolyn Ellis, President; Birdie Searle, Second Counselor; Joan Robbins, SecretaryTreasurer. Delores Merkley, President, Ashley Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Vernal Sixth Ward of our stake held a very successful bazaar with the theme 'A Family Affair.' There were booths to entice every member of the family, and a turkey dinner was served."' 698 AFFAIR z « 2 = ns; ' September 1970 Deseret Stake (Utah), Oasis Ward Honors Past Presidents at Relief Society Birthday Party March 24, 1970 Former presidents of the Oasis Ward Relief Society, front row, left to right: Hilda Gillen; Jensine Anderson; Betsy Skeem; Erma T. Styler; Ethel B. Stanworth. Back row, left to right: Celia Christensen; LaVeda H. Bishop; Glenda C. Roundy; Ethel M. Stanworth, who also served as president of the stake Relief Society; Beulah W. Rowley; Claire W. Petersen, current President. Dana W. Bishop, President, Deseret Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Oasis Ward honored the past presidents and elderly sisters at a Relief Society birthday party, an annual event in this ward. "This is a very small ward, but it is always among the leaders of our stake in statistics and work accomplished. The sisters have a record of twenty-one consecutive years of 100 per cent visiting teaching."' Moroni Stake (Utah), Moroni East Ward Presents "'Fashions For Living,"' April 29, 1970 Front row, beginning seventh from left: Ivy Anderson, Counselor, Moroni East Ward Relief Society; Uarda Blackham, President; Joyce Nielsen, Counselor; beginning fourteenth from left; Valene Rasmussen, Counselor, Moroni Stake Relief Society; Bessie Cook, President; Edna Christensen, Counselor; Verdeen Jacobsen, SecretaryTreasurer. Sister Cook reports: ''A delightful program planned around the lines of Eliza R. Snow, 'Relief Society is an Order fitted and designed to meet the wants and needs of body and mind,' was enjoyed by 110 members of the Moroni East Ward Relief Society. Fifty participants modeled lovely clothing. Over 225 articles of arts and crafts made by talented members of the ward were displayed. A play, 'My Sister's Keeper,' was presented. Singing Mothers performed and a luncheon was served. It was a lovely presentation." Santa Barbara Stake (California) Visiting Teachers Honored For Faithful Service, May 4, 1970 Left to right: Anna Dee Packer; Muriel Redd; Lillie Smith; Roberta Boden; Nancy Lesue; Marlene Weatherly. Donna P. Bates, President, Santa Barbara Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We honored forty-six visiting teachers for one hundred percent visiting teaching and attendance at report meetings. "The highlight of the evening was a 'period' fashion show using authentic clothing from as far back as 1851. The theme for the narration written by Donna Pence was 'A Visit in Time.' "Lovely displays of antiques were attractive and popular. The refreshment table decorations featured dolls dressed in blue and gold period dresses made by Bessie Anderson, visiting teacher message leader. It was a most enjoyable evening attended by 275 visiting teachers."

700 —_- Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING Pearl of Great Price Lesson 3 The Premortality of Mankind Reading Assignment: Abraham, Chapter 3 Northern Hemisphere: First meeting, December 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First meeting, May 1971 OBJECTIVE: To gain a knowledge of premortal life and to examine the present-day value of this knowledge to a Latter-day Saint woman. INTRODUCTION A basic tenet of The Church of Jesus Christ is that all living things are created in spirit form before they have existence in this mortal life. This knowledge which is only lightly touched upon in the Bible is revealed anew that the fulness of truth given in earlier dispensations might come together in the dispensation of the fulness of times. (D&C 121:26-32.) The Patriarch Abraham learned by vision that he was one of those in the premortal world who was chosen before he was born on the earth to be a ruler. (Abr. 3:22-23.) Unto Moses the Lord revealed that all men were created in the spirit before they were naturally upon the earth. (Moses 3:5.) These teachings are 702 found in the Bible but only to a limited degree. (Jer. 1:5; Job 38:4, 7; Titus 1:1-2.) SPIRIT ENTITIES A description of the spirit of man is found in a modern revelation received by -tthe Prophet Joseph Smith: 'The spirit of man [is] in the likeness of his person." (D&C 77:2.) Another revealed experience confirming the truth that the body conforms to the premortal spirit is learned from the visit of the premortal Savior to the brother of Jared on the ancient American Continent. (Eth. 3:14-16; Orson Pratt, Journal of Discourses [Los Angeles: Gartner Printing & Litho Co., Inc., 1956], 3:352. Hereafter referred to as JD.) A CHILD OF GOD Man, therefore, is a dual being consisting of a physical body and a spirit entity. The spirit of man is the literal child of God. (Acts 17:27-28; Num. 16:22; 27:16; Heb. 12:9.) The First Presidency composed of Joseph F. Smith, John R. Winder, and Anthon H. Lund, set forth plainly this important truth in these words: The doctrine of the pre-existence,— revealed so plainly, particularly in the latter days, pours a wonderful flood of light upon the otherwise mysterious problem of man's ongin. It shows that man, as a spirit, was begotten and born of heavenly parents, and reared to maturity in the eternal mansions of the Father, prior to coming upon the earth in a temporal body to undergo an experience in mortality. It teaches that all men existed in the spirit before any man existed in the flesh, and that all who have inhabited the earth since Adam have taken bodies and become souls in like manner. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, basing its belief on divine revelation, ancient and modern, proclaims man to be the direct and lineal offspring of Deity. ("The Origin of Man," Improvement Era, vol. 13 [November 1909], pp. 75-81.) Class Discussion One of the doctrines of the Church is that man is literally a child of God. Discuss the importance to you of this fundamental truth. JESUS CHRIST THE FIRSTBORN As we are the literal spirit offspring of Deity, so Jesus Christ is the literal son of God in the spirit and also in the flesh. Jesus, however, is the firstborn of all the spirit sons and daughters of God, declares a modern revelation: "And now, verily I say unto you, I was in the beginning with the Father, and am the FirstLesson Department born." (D&C 93:21; Col. 1:15.) Latter-day Saints refer to the Savior as their elder brother because of his being the firstborn. (James E. Talmage, The Articles of Faith [Boston: University Press, 1968], p. 472.) That fact is indicated in the following words from Elder Orson Pratt: Have you not read, in the New Testament, that Jesus Christ was the first-born