Logan, Cache, North Sevier, Sevier, South Sevier, Franklin, Oneida, North Davis, South Davis and Blackfoot. The institutes have each covered either five or six days, with four hours class work daily, and have been conducted under the direction of the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, who has been assisted by the following social workers from the Welfare Department at Relief Society headquarters: Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, Miss Lydia Alder, Miss Anna Laura Stohl, Mrs. Amy W. Evans and Mrs. Elizabeth Williams. The classes have been made up of stake board members, ward presidents and social service aids, with bishops or counselors and supervising high councilmen. County commissioners have also been in attendance. So keen has been the interest 
 throughout, that at the close of each institute the members have universally expressed their great delight in the course, and have stated that the help and inspiration given them would form the basis and beginning of future study on social problems. Snowflake Stake. Following we give the aims of the stake board for 1926: 1. To plan and execute some special activity for board members each month. 2. To plan and give outlines for definite work to be put over in the wards. 3. To have each member of the board report in pout meeting on her special line of work at definitely appointed times. 4. To make a special effort to secure larger contributions for charity work. 5. To have a definite written program of instructions to take to each ward upon visits. 6. Take up a special study of parliamentary rules, as a board, and put over a simple usage in the wards. 7. To visit, unannounced, each ward twice, at least, during the year; one visit on work and business day, the other as seems best fitted to need of the ward. 8. To continue effort to have more efficient teachers' work (a) by giving more thorough discussion of teachers' topic at work and business meeting; (b) by continuing to hold for 100-per cent visiting, 100 per cent preparation, 100 per cent attendance of teachers at work and business meetings, (c) by occasionally checking and comparing results for monthly visits. 9. To aid in making marked civic improvements in all the communities. 10. To convert officers and members to the need of maternity bundles. Report of Summer's Work for 1926. Eight wards reported having taken up "Home Improvement" projects as outlined by the stake board.. Only a few of them reported hours spent in work. One of the eight did not give anything definite. The total expenditure as reported by seven associations was $13,057.40. Projects reported worked upon in these associations are as follows: kalsomining, painting, new roofs, new doors, lathing, cement work, coverings, flower beds and bulbs, screens repaired, shrubs, new floors, plastering, walks, built-in furniture, grafonolas, swings, books, magazines, musical records, rugs, draperies, washers, windmills and new houses under process of construction. During NOTES FROM THE FIELD 195 Spring, there was conducted a contest or drive in the literary department of the stake. Wards reporting scored near 50 per cent, having read one complete work of Mark Twain's. One ward, namely Woodruff, nee ac) 100 per cent, having read one complete work. Malad Stake. Mrs. Ella J. Richards, president of the Relief Societies of Malad stake, reports a very interesting visit made by herself and a fellow officer to the Washakie (Indian) branch. It was on theology day, and Mrs. Amy Timbimboo, a native sister, translated the lesson on "John the Beloved Apostle." The visitors could not understand the words but could feel the wonderful spirit accompanying the discussion. At the conclusion of the meeting Mrs. Richards was handed an envelope containing 12 beautiful handmade handkerchiefs which the young women of the association had made, as gifts for the stake board members. Mrs. Fredrickson, the state nurse, is now in Malad, where she has done excellent work among the school children. She will spend four months out of the year in Malad, and the other eight months she will give to Franklin and Bear Lake counties. California Mission (Torrance Relief Society) Northwestern States Mission. On December 31, 1926, the Relief Societies of the Northwestern States mission was reorganized. Mrs. Marie Young, who has labored so faithfully and capably during her husband's presidency of the mission, was honorably released, 
 with deep appreciation for her excellent service. Mrs. Pearl C. Sloan, wife of President William R. Sloan, was appointed president to fill the vacancy. Eastern States Mission. Relief Society work in the Eastern States mission is constantly progressing. There is a commendable interest, not only among the members enrolled therein, but among the missionaries and presiding brethren as well. There is a splendid spirit of cooperation throughout. Miss Dicie W. Brimhall writes that since her appointment as president, in October, it has been her project, through a circular letter, and where possible a personal visit, to have each society provide a year-round program with the purpose of preparedness and making use of every occasion to extend Relief Society work. The presidents have responded readily to this idea, and have submitted plans that would do credit to the wards in the west, where the advantage of numbers makes auxiliary work comparatively easy. At present the societies are working to complete their bazaar April Fool's Day
By Ellen L. Jakeman
projects. During November, two auxiliary conferences were held at Washington, D. C., and at Albany, New York, with the Relief Societies, Sunday schools and Mutual Improvement Associations, participating. The work done in these two branches is most gratifying.
Hawaiian Mission. Mrs. Olivia S. Waddoups, president of the Hawaiian mission Relief Societies, writes as follows: "The Relief Society members in this mission are making a great effort to succeed in their work, and we are pleased with the efforts. Their activities among those in need and distress is commendable indeed. Our social welfare work is given good attention, and much interest is shown in the Baby clinic movement here. With the help of our L. D. S. Hospital graduate nurse missionary, Sister Freda Linneback, much is being accomplished here in Honolulu, and this island. We start the new year with two new organizations in Honolulu. We have also reorganized a number of our old associations. We believe that we are now prepared to do better work in 1927 than we did in 1926. That is, at least, our ambition."
Southern States Mission. The Relief Societies of the mission report a gratifying increase of charitable deeds for the poor and the sick, nonmembers, as well as members, having been included in this work of love. More money has been collected and disbursed for the benefit of the poor this year than in previous years. The yearly report shows also that the members have spent more days in caring for the sick than heretofore. The Jacksonville, Florida, Relief Society secured a home for a baby whose parents were killed in the terrible storm which devastated the towns on the east coast of Florida, September 26. The foster mother, who took the baby into her home, is a Relief Society worker. Effort has also been made along the lines of making the meeting houses more attractive. The Columbus, Georgia, chapel is nearing completion, and the Relief Society raised $50 to assist in providing a baptismal font. The largest country chapel in the mission is at Axson, Georgia, and the members of this country branch carpeted the stand and the aisles. During the series of conferences held in November and December, the Relief Societies served substantial meals between the meetings to the visitors and missionaries.
Tongan Mission. The course of study in the Relief Societies of the Tongan mission last year consisted of the regular theology lessons, which were translated by the president, Mrs. Ada B. Cahoon, and a course in the laws of Tonga. There was much interest in the class work, and the members were greatly benefited thereby.
California Mission (Correction). The note in the February Magazine regarding the excellent Magazine subscription record in San Francisco was incomplete. It should have read as follows: "The Mission Branch Relief Society of San Francisco has made a most enviable record in the matter of securing subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine. There are thirty-eight members in the organization, and they have sent in fifty-eight subscriptions. The subscribers consist of 38 members, 12 L. D. S. Women, non-members of the organization, and 8 non-members of the Church."