SEPTEMBER 1968 { £] R; The Cover: Frontispiece: © Art Layout: | Illustrations: AUTUMNAL These wild flamboyant colors The season has put on Have found my heart exulting Over hill and town. The aspens on the pathway Are wrapped in flame and gold, And all the woods are crimson Where maple trees are bold. Here willows drape the ridges In panicles of brown And all the seeded grasses With wealth are bending down. Oh, fall has teased the fancy, Written itself in rhyme— But a leaf drifts down in warning Lest | forget the time. —Linnie F. Robinson Granite Flats, American Fork Canyon, Utah Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press A Season of Falling Leaves, Mount Timpanogos, Utah Photograph by Hal Rumel Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 641 
From Near and Far
I have just received the April 1968 edition of The Relief Society Magazine, and I felt that
I should write you immediately and tell you how the story "Home Revisited" (by Christie
Lund Coles) aroused poignant memories in me of my father when he was very ill in the
hospital, begging to be "taken home." Unable to sleep the night he passed away, the
great truth of God's mercy came to me, and a testimony that helped to prepare me in
no small way to accept the restored gospel when the missionaries came to our door
three years later. I have realized Moroni's promise in answer to prayer regarding the
truthfulness of the gospel. I love The Relief Society Magazine. Housework goes out
the window when the Magazine comes through the door.
Jean C. MacDonald, Glasgow, Scotland
Thank you for publishing my poem "Storytime" in the May Magazine. I do appreciate
having something published. It may interest you to know that the poem was
read aloud by the instructor at a class I have been taking —"Writing for Children"— an
evening class, at Santa Clara University. She had seen the poem in our Magazine
at the home of a friend, and had recognized my name as being on her enrollment
list. This was really a thrill to me. All the members of the class, including the instructor,
were nonmembers. May I express my appreciation for Mabel Harmer's serial
"If Spring Be Late" (to be concluded in November). It is always rewarding to
read Mabel's stories. Norma Wrathall, Sunnyvale, California
I enjoy the many poems published in The Relief Society Magazine. They have inspired
me to try my hand at writing poetry. Shirley Dupuis, Old Town, Maine
I have gained so much from the editorials in the Magazine. For instance, you should
see how I have marked up my Magazine, because of the editorial "A Pattern for the
Daughters of Zion" (July 1966) by Vesta P. Crawford. New and significant thoughts
were given to ponder over. For one thing, "Wisdom and strength are the endowments
of the woman who is able to think before she speaks, and then, sometimes, not to
speak at all." I have used this suggestion frequently. It helps me in self-mastery,
which I always need to apply. It was stated in such a way that I can recall it when
applicable. Thanks for this inspiration. The Magazine becomes more wonderful all
the time. I appreciate it and the fine choosing of material that goes into it.
Clara H. Park, Draper, Utah
I just had to write and tell you how much I appreciate The Relief Society Magazine.
Our daughter was first introduced to the Magazine at home. Now she is a class
leader in Relief Society at Brigham Young University and has her own subscription. I
watch every month for helps and ideas to send our missionary son in Italy. I thoroughly
enjoy the stories and articles written by my cousin Frances C. Yost of Bancroft,
Idaho. The Magazine has been in my home for more than twenty years, and
gets better all the time. Valaine H. Jessop, Clearfield, Utah
Our "Song for The Relief Society Magazine," was written by Sister Mary Grasteit, who
was our former stake Relief Society president. Our stake has enjoyed it so much. We
have also recorded it on tape. It was used to launch our Magazine drive and was most
effective. One of the verses exemplifies the mood and spirit of the song:
When things are going not just right,
And everything is not exactly bright,
Just take a moment with this book
And you will have a new outlook.
Glenna C. Woolf, President, Anaheim Stake Relief Society (California)

The Relief SOCICTY Magazine Volume 55 September 1968 Number 9 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 644 Birthday Congratulations to President David O. McKay 646 Because They Care Zelma R. West 651 The Red Cross and Phoenix and Mesa Stakes (Arizona) Relief Societies Conduct Home Nurse Training Classes Myrtle R. Olson 669 A Dutch Treat Jean Anderson Jensen Fiction 655 Suffer the Little Children Eloise Johnson 663 If Spring Be Late—Chapter 6 Mabel Harmer General Features 642 From Near and Far 659 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 660 Editorial—It Is the Little Things That Count Louise W. Madsen 696 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 720 Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 662 Ribbon-Worthy Work Sarah Emmaline Winsor McBride 676 A Little Walk Along the Upper Provo River (Utah) Claire Noall 678 A Nursery for Loving Care Virginia Tippetts 679 Chore Chart Ann Muir Anderson 680 The Wonder of Bulbs Alice Willardson 682 An Old-Fashioned Fair for Harvest Time 684 Gift Cookies For All Occasions Melba S. Payne Lesson Department 703. Spiritual Living—The Blessings of the Priesthood Roy W. Doxey 709 Visiting Teacher Message—Each Person Needs to Feel Accepted Alice Colton Smith 710 Homemaking—Priceless Treasures Celestia J. Taylor 712 Social Relations—Lighting the Way Alberta H. Christensen 718 Cultural Refinement—no lesson planned for December 689 Two Self Portraits by Rembrant van Ryn Floyd E. Brienholt 690 'Snowstorm' by Joseph Mallord William Turner Floyd E. Brienholt 691 ''Lady Jean'' by George Bellows Floyd E. Brienholt Poetry 641 Autumnal Linnie F. Robinson Visiting Teachers, Annie C. Esplin 650; Autumn Serenade, Margaret Read 654; Today We Live, Renie H. Littlewood 693; Woodland Child, Peggy Tangren 695; Faith, Bonnie S. Gudmundson 708. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign. $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

A Birthday Congratulations to Si: hiident Dar vil | Me lle Suey September 8, 1968 #®QOn his ninety-fifth birthday, the women of the Church extend congratulations to President David O. McKay whose voice has been lifted in many lands to proclaim the everlasting gospel—whose travels and teachings have circled the globe, and whose counsel and guidance have been such a blessing in directing Relief Society activities. We feel to express gratitude and rejoicing for the prophet who dwells among us, and whose days have been lengthened upon the earth to give counsel and blessings to the world-wide Church membership. It is a comfort and an inspiration to Relief Society women to know that they may look to President McKay and to Sister Emma Ray McKay for an example of ideal family life, and for direction in Church and community service. They have guided the sisters and directed them along the pathways that encompass the lives of Latter-day Saint women. Counsel has been given for the sisters as they progress in their callings and increase in their responsibilities from the time that they are daughters in the home, to activities as missionaries or students, to the time of marriage and motherhood— and always in their positions of membership and leadership in Church auxiliaries. Many of the daughters of Zion, in times of perplexity or indecision, have paused to ask themselves: "What counsel has President McKay given us in answer to this questioning? What guidelines has he set before us to indicate direction and the pathway that will lead to eternal progress and an understanding of everlasting purposes?" The spiritual environment of seeking women in the Church has been illuminated and made more beautiful through the life and the teachings of President McKay. He has said: "I want to express appreciation of the environment with which I was blessed... Those grand old mountains... The meadowlark singing in the morning daybreak over the eastern hills.... Swiftly do we become like the thoughts we love... The Spirit of the Lord permeates all nature... One must put oneself in tune by obedience to eternal principles of conduct and by authoritative confirmation." (Home Memories, pp. 215-216.) May the faith and prayers of Relief Society women everywhere be manifest in birthday wishes to President McKay. May our Heavenly Father continue to bless him. We are thankful for a prophet "to guide us in these latter days." 644 Sees) Mir a) See VIIOOIISOA NS LVM OMG os - a say + PGE ~~ Because eox2 Cer « Coee ta. I * a ee<> Chey Care Csew Grew Zelma R. West Ge: 7 o Member, General Board of Relief Society a2 200; Y er) ws ies SS ea OD QRE SEAT ALTARS 56 Ss JI Dele JNOVA » Visiting teaching is an integral part of the Relief Society program, and because presidents and visiting teachers care, the visits made to the homes, and the services rendered, have made it a shining example of unselfish service. Let us view it from the position of a president, a visiting teacher, and a grateful recipient. Thoughts of a President Who Cares: Today the bishop asked me to be the president of our ward Relief Society. Such a calling affords an opportunity to give service to all of the women in our ward, but can I measure up? Can I do it as my Heavenly Father would have it done? There are so many women I want Relief Society to reach and befriend. Sister Jones seems so timid—hardly says a word when she is at church, and as soon as the meeting is over, she is gone. I'll have to get better acquainted with her. I wonder how Sister Brown is adjusting 646 "ee. (eS Ab Wiriiriite YINS GY HO since the death of her husband. That was unexpected, for he had not been ill very long. I'm sure she would welcome a sister's friendly interest. I have never seen Sister White or Sister Smith at Relief Society. I know they have young families, and, of course, they are busy with them, but I'm going to talk with their visiting teachers to see how we might help, so they can come to Relief Society and participate in the discussions, develop friendships, and feel our interest in them as individuals. Time spent in Relief Society could be a refreshing break in their week's activities. These women give and give of themselves to their families, and just an hour and a half a week at Relief Society would provide them with an opportunity to "take" for a change, to replenish their reservoir of spiritual strength, and store up for themselves ideas to think about and act upon during the week. Relief Society would widen their horizons. As a presidency, it would take us months to visit all the sisters in the ward, and then we would not have the close contact, or the efficient follow-up that the visiting teachers have, for they visit each month. Truly, the visiting teachers are the hands, ears, eyes, and heart of Relief Society, and their service is necessary to the accomplishment of Relief Society goals of service. At one time the Prophet Joseph Smith said to the women: This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. (DHC IV, p. 605.) It is almost as if he were talking directly to the visiting teachers, for they have a special opportunity to act according to their sympathies, so that all women may benefit. The Relief Society Handbook says that the president should "personally interview each visiting teacher, pointing out to her the importance of this special field of work and letting her know of the responsibilities and obligations of this calling." It is best that each sister be told personally the importance of visiting teaching; that she knows the call came to her from the Lord through the proper channels; that he is the one she is serving, as she carries out her assignment. I can see that if the president talks with each sister personally, she is better able to assign each one to the district where her talents and abilities will be most helpful. Because They Care Oh, those precious minutes assigned to the president in visiting teacher meeting! I can't let anything interfere with that time. I care about each visiting teacher, and there is much that can be discussed to help each one to prepare to fulfill her assignment well. We can discuss the importance of being alert and concerned for every sister—the necessity of careful, prayerful preparation of each month's message, and the value of being dependable, of making the visits each month. One month we can talk about our personal preparation, by living so that we do not "shut off our access to the Lord." With the channel open between the visiting teachers and the Lord, they will be given the "power of discernment" to know what each sister needs from the message each month as they visit, but I will caution them that they go into the homes with one thought in mind, and that is to be helpful. One month we will go over the qualities of a visiting teacher which make her effective. These are listed in the Visiting Teacher Report Book, so the teachers can refer to them often. Ruskin said, "the path of a good woman is strewn with flowers, but they rise behind and not before her." Perhaps those flowers rising behind the visiting teachers do not catch their eye, but the rest of us know they are there, and I will tell them often during the year how much they are appreciated. Thoughts of a Visiting Teacher Who Cares: I accepted the call to be a visiting teacher because I am not in the habit of refusing Church 647 September 1968 calls, but I really did not have a testimony of visiting teaching for the district to which I was assigned. It covers three blocks. All the people are long-time members of the Church and attend more or less regularly. They seem to be pretty healthy, with enough to eat and wear. However, when the new president talked to me, she said that the call to be a visiting teacher comes from the Lord through the proper channels— that he is the one I am serving as I make my visits. That being the case; I wanted a testimony of the value of visiting teaching for all the sisters in all the districts. I began to talk to people and to read articles about visiting teaching. I found many examples of devoted, dedicated visiting teachers. Some stakes in the Church cover hundreds of miles, and so the wards are scattered over large areas. Some teachers walk miles to make their visits, others ride bicycles, and others spend a long time on the subway. In one mission branch, a pair of visiting teachers had a district which covered eighty miles round trip, and another pair had a district of forty-five miles, and these sisters made their visits! In that branch, the newest members of the Church were made visiting teachers, and they were enthusiastic about their callings and did a fine job. I can see the value of visiting teaching in these places, because the visits would be the means of bringing the ward or the branch members closer together. New converts would benefit, too, for they would know they had friends when they came to church. 648 A branch Relief Society president praised two devoted visiting teachers who were willing to get involved with an indifferent sister. When the sister had moved into the branch she had asked that her name be removed from the roll, but the president felt impressed to ask the. Visiting teachers to call on her. The sister worked away from home, so the visiting teachers left messages, called late in the afternoon, and, finally, made contact. They found the sister casual, but not cool, and the teachers kept in contact with her. Soon the sister brought her children to Sunday School, and they were warmly greeted and introduced to many members. Then the children went to Primary, and the sister. To Relief Society. Last year the "indifferent" sister was so active that she was asked to give some homemaking discussions in Relief Society. The president said, "Though other indifferent sisters have not reacted so favorably—the very fact that they are visited and know that the Relief Society sisters care for them can't help but be a good influence.... Success stories just come under different names. I believe all those devoted visiting teachers have found true joy in the application of Christ's teaching *... It is more blessed to give than to receive.' "' (Acts 20:35.) Are there opportunities to "sive" in our small district, where everything always seems so all right? Yes there are, and today I got a testimony of it. After visiting teacher meeting, the president asked my companion and me to find out how we could best help Sister White, so that she could get to Relief Society. Then we were awake! Now I see the value of going two-by-two to make visits, and having someone to consult who knows the sisters. My companion and I began to analyze our visits and really to think about the sisters in our district. We decided we had been asleep to need. Oh, we had asked Sister White to come to Relief Society, but never once had we offered to pick her up. It seems that she would have to walk, and with three pre-school children, would have to leave home early and would not be back home until after the other children had returned for lunch. We decided that we didn't listen! Last month Sister Jones had told us about her mother's illness and how hard it was to get her to the doctor. If we had been listening, we would have consulted the president and, under her direction, would have suggested that we drive so that Sister Jones could watch over her mother more carefully during the trip to the doctor's office. We decided that we hadn't been very thoughtful, either! One sister had looked so very tired when we had visited her, and we had remarked about it, but we had not made plans to watch especially for her on Sunday at church to see if the tired look was still there, and to be alert to signs that our services might be needed. My companion and I asked ourselves, "Don't we want to help?" Of course we do, for we care! It is just a matter of trainIng ourselves to listen, to see, and then to do! We realize that the sisters want to help themBecause They Care selves as much as they can, as long as they can, and not ask for outside help, but we want them to have the assurance that we stand ready to assist when we are needed. H. Wayne Driggs said: When we think of the work done by the Savior, we are apt to remember his miracles, but it is significant that our works need not of necessity be these epic-making events. By the exercise of great faith, as Relief Society members, and more particularly as visiting teachers, we can actually aid the blind to see; we also can open the eyes of those who are spiritually dim-sighted; we can by faith still an actual tempest, and we also can calm the tempest in some troubled soul. One is no greater miracle than the other. The acts of Jesus were acts of understanding and love. These we can perform. These are as much needed today as they ever were. We can "go about doing good." (The Relief Society Magazine, July 1948, page 479.) Listen to the Thoughts of a Grateful Recipient: My visiting teachers brought me:'a wonderful message. Today. Oh, I had read it in The Relief Society Magazine, but I hadn't thought too much about it since then. But the visiting teachers were so full of enthusiasm about it, and they talked to me eye to eye and. Heart to heart, and I found that I wanted vocally. To express my ideas. The topic was about love, intelligence, and compassionate service. The visiting teachers talked of the need for love and intelligence walking together, as we give compassionate service. I could see that this message applied right here in my home, to me, in my dealings with my family whom I love so much. Never again will emotion, only, dominate my actions as I work with my children. 649 September 1968 I will use the intelligence the Lord has given me, so that my love will be a constructive force. As the teachers gave the message, and I spoke my thoughts, their sweet spirits added something special, and the message was alive and vital, not just words they spoke to me. What I like most about my visiting teachers is the fact that I feel comfortable with them. They are mothers, too, and they understand that my home cannot always be in perfect order, or that my hair can't always be beauty-parlor fresh! They accept me as I am. I remember when they came today, I was quite upset over the annoying things my four-year-old and three-year-old were doing. And the visiting teachers gave me something else to think about, to lift my spirit, to set a different tone to my day. It is such a comfort to know that * %. O%e o8c a8 note aie cha ate ote a8 e, nF, oO o% en a%e a %n aOe aM ne, 2 oe 00,0 O,0 0,000 oe 0,0 O,% 09 00 0,0 0,0 0,0 o° "2 o,° O20, OO. O05 © Ae. Oh OOO. Ox OO, O o,¢ o,° oe o,¢ o,° o,° oe oe o¢ 0,0 °,° 0,0 ¢,0, °, % Ce ae eR 0,0 0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0.0 0,0,¢ i, Cee 2 o° A o,¢ °,¢ oge oe a me > age *50*,° °o 0 o,¢ 2 ) bes 7 ate Oe, 20, ° '* oe o° oe 2 o 650 eo © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © © ©. O.% ©.%.% © ee o,° O12 %,2 ©, rg? O°,° oe 2 O,2 o,¢ 2° o° o,¢ OO oe Oo] OO O08 0,9 0,9 0,4 000.0 oe oe "° oe "° oe O00 O° VISITING TEACHERS Enter this door—Il am sent here by him; To carry his light, let mine be not dim. Yet, all they will see is my form and my face; Light me with spirit and dress me with grace; All they will hear are the words that | know. Help me remember, let my thoughts glow. | know that he lives—it blesses my days; | know that he loves and | give him praise. The humble find courage—I enter the door! Oh, help me prove worthy forevermore. 0 Me ots ote ote ote tea te ate ate ate ate a tna tn nF Fn o%e o®.%. O © ¢@ oe. E ¢ © © © 20 CO Co se ro" %e% %% 9%: o? Me? 8 %,¢ © OO. 00 60 00 00. O 0,0 0,0 0,0 0,0 0.0 0,6 00 00 © oO,. O OOS OO 60 08 O89 CO 40 6o o © 0 ©, 0 09 0,0 0,0 09 0,0 00 0.9 0.4 09% oo 66, they are real friends, and that the things they see and hear in my home will not be talked about in another home. In our casual conversation one of the sisters said that she was expecting members of her family next week to celebrate their mother's eightieth birthday. I must call and see if she has enough room for them all. I have a room some of them could use. It gives me a lift to be thinking of doing something for somebody else, instead of going along in my old routine. The visiting teachers will always be welcome in my home. I wonder what the message is for next month. Ill have to read it so we can have a good discussion. Visiting Teaching. It is an integral part of the Lord's program for his daughters. It blesses those who direct it, those who give, and those who receive. Of. + eo. Oo. © 00 0,0 Oe eo, re? O,° @..%..%.%. ©.%. © ©.% © oe "° o° o" ° *,° oe Od ~¢ "° o eo. 2 © © © © © © © ¢ O50 0,0 0,0 ©,0 00 0.0 000.8 oe,° —Annie C. Esplin oe @ oe? 40 %° eo. © o,¢ o,0°, One, OG o¢ 0.0 Os The Red Cross and Phoenix and Mesa Stakes (Arizona) Relief Societies Conduct Home Nurse Training Classes Myrtle R. Olson Member, General Board of Relief Society Group instruction on how to make a back rest from a cardboard box. EWhat a satisfaction when a project succeeds far beyond what has been anticipated! This was the case of the combined efforts of the Relief Societies and the Red Cross in the Phoenix, Arizona, area in giving the Red Cross Home Nursing course. This was not only a great satisfaction but also a blessing to thousands of sisters. This project, great in deed as well as in its numbers, came through a truly dedicated Relief Society sister, who is also a registered nurse, Sister Shirley Larson. The past summer while she was taking a First Aid Course for Nurses, the director of Nursing Services at the Red Cross gave her a wonderful new Home Nursing Programmed Manual. The book passed through several hands and reached the Scottsdale Stake Relief Society presidency. Sister Rosemary Choules, the 651 a % - + set '@ be wpe 4 as a b 52-9 i@ a, be f = Seated, left to right: Shirley Larson, L. D. S. Home Nursing Chairman; President Stan Turley of Mesa South Stake; Helen Gaborek, Red Cross Nursing Director. Standing: Rosemary Choules, Chairman; President Maurice R. Tanner, Scottsdale Stake. Stake Chairmen not pictured: Mildred B. Jarvis, Maricopa Stake; Verna Naylor, Scottsdale Stake; Dorothy Terry, Phoenix Stake; Ruth Brinton, East Mesa; Marion B. Perry, East Phoenix; Ora Taylor, Phoenix (Co-Chairman); Julia Kerby, Mesa; Rose Tenny, Mesa South; Ida Steele and Carol L. Thornton, Phoenix North; Joan Hanks, Phoenix West. Counselor in charge of homemaking, and Sister Larson "put their heads together" and thought this course would be wonderful for the sisters of their stake. They also recruited the services of another registered nurse and Relief Society sister in their stake to help them, Sister Verna Naylor. It seemed to them to be a vital part of the Family Preparedness program. Through this effort they would be able to increase their abilities to render compassionate service to the sick under the direction of the Relief Society president, and also strengthen the community by being pre- 652 pared. Other stake Relief Societies heard of the Scottsdale Stake's plan and wanted the same thing for their sisters. Before taking any steps to put their idea into effect, they consulted with the General Relief Society Presidency and received their support. They also talked with their priesthood advisors and received their blessings, encouragement, andsupport. Nine stakes in this area became involved: East Mesa, East Phoenix, Maricopa, Mesa, Mesa South, Phoenix, Phoenix North, Phoenix West, and Scottsdale. They set up a very good organi- Learning how to use a thermometer. Seated at the left: Leona Biakeddy; child seated on the table: Rebecca Edmonds, four years old. Standing, left to right: Leona Edmonds; Janet Little; Delores Johnson, instructor. Zational structure. There were hurdles to overcome, but through the cooperation of everyone, their enthusiasm, and _ organization, their efforts were highly successful. The director of nursing for Red Cross in Phoenix, Helen Gaborek, stated that this opportunity to work with the Latterday Saint Relief Society sisters is perhaps the most challenging opportunity she has had and that she was most grateful to be involved with such a vital program. The Relief Society agreed to assume the _ responsibility for the recruitment of instructors, for providing classrooms, and for the organization of classes. The Red Cross agreed to assume the responsibility for the training of the instructors, for supplying films, equipment, etc. For the teaching of the instructors' classes, and for continued supervisory assistance for the instructors. The instructors' classes consisted of five, four-hour classes, a total of twenty hours of training. The instructors then, in turn, taught classes for the women who enrolled in the home nursing course. Fach course consisted of twelve hours of instruction. It was anticipated that, perhaps, fifty instructors would be recruited to take the twentyhour instructor course. The sisters responded, however, with enthusiasm and, consequently, one hundred and _ ninety-four 653 September 1968 women have received the Red Cross Instructor Authorization Cards and are now in the process of teaching this course. Those taking the course from the instructors will receive the Home Nursing Certificate. Four thousand women have now completed the course, and, by the end of the teaching program, approximately ten thousand will have responded. Such a course surely makes better homemakers. What an accomplishment—ten thousand better trained wives and mothers, and, therefore, ten thousand better homes! Many of the sisters testify that the course has helped them greatly already and they have had the opportunity to use the skills they have learned. Two sisters drove one hundred and eight miles each way in order to take the instructor course. This is the kind of dedication these sisters demonstrated. These sisters came from an area where did not supplant the there are many Lamanite sisters, and they will have the opportunity for teaching them. There were seven Lamanite sisters and thirteen Spanish-speaking sisters who became instructors. What a great blessing they can bring their sisters. This course was in no way mandatory, but carried out on an entirely voluntary basis. It Relief Society summer discussions on nursing. On May 2d, 1968, a luncheon in recognition of the instructors was held at the Red Cross building. Tribute was paid to these sisters for their contribution in making this program succeed. A plaque was also presented to Mrs. Helen Gaborek of the Red Cross. She was given a standing ovation from the instructors and all those present. This she richly deserved. Relief Society presidents and several stake presidents were in attendance. ———3*« BK He 41C 4K > K > Ps P.9 AUTUMN SERENADE ¥ Time now, for summer's passing glory to fade ¥ fi And leave behind, for autumn's richer glow, ra Her sense of gentle touch to soothe U Our yearning, whereby we would know Y me Her going was loath. * Even the tree's modest bud Seems eager to bid her haste Y Into the shadow of winter, y 4 So quick is it to taste 4 The sharper air, and succumb In all its splendors, a serenade x Of deeper tones to autumn. —Margaret Read Norwich, Norfolk, England " Y > > 3K IC ote 4K —— 654 Suffer the Little Children Eloise Johnson =» Bertha Long looked younger than she was. Her heavy hair, still more blond than gray, accented her delicate, fair skin, giving it a translucent quality. Impeccable taste, evident in the modish navy blue suit she wore, was emphasized by the matching accessories lying together on the dressing table. Her flawless image dominated the room, warming it, until her husband spoke to her from the bed where he lay propped up on pillows. With the tightening of her face, the look of youth succumbed to the etching of fine lines around her eyes and mouth, making her older, and very much a woman over fifty. She ignored his question, busying herself with his medicine tray while she searched for a definite, final answer. Will seldom became ill enough to be in bed, but this cold seemed different, or perhaps if she were honest, only the treatment was different. Cheerfulness was not being administered along with the antibiotics. Bertha shook the thermometer down with quick, angry snaps of her wrist. She didn't know whether she was upset with Will, herself, or the seemingly impossible situation facing them. For the first time in many years they were in complete disagreement. If she was aware of the dark eyes fastened on her, she gave no sign. The only sound in the room was her rustling to and fro as she picked up and folded the morning newspapers, returned her typewriter to its case and stored it in the closet. Putting one's foot down and keeping it there, was a difficult position to maintain, she had concluded. Finally, she spoke in a voice husky with repressed feelings. "You don't realize what you're asking, Will. I can't do it!" His answer was just as firm as 655 September 1968 hers, but gentle. "I'm hot the one who's asking, Bert. It's in the will. You and I are the legal guardians of Robbie." Color rushed to her face, and her words were tinged with sharpness, despite her attempt at selfcontrol. "Does that mean we have to take him?" "No no, we don't have to take him." Will turned his face into the pillow, his voice trailed off into a deep sigh. Bertha's lips moved to form a strong reply, but she turned, instead, to look out the window. Avtter awhile, she sat down beside him, her strong shapely hands massaged his shoulders. "Oh, Will." It was like a deep breath, taken before plunging into the depths of her feelings. "Robert's and Beth's accident was a tragic experience for all of us, especially for you. I loved them, Will. I'm only trying to be honest with myself and you. I'm not capable of taking care of Robbie." She paused, then went on softly. "You know Robbie doesn't like me." Will shifted himself around to face her. "Because you made him behave. He wouldn't like anyone who disciplined him." "Why didn't Robert and Beth consult us?" "T don't know, Bertha." Will picked up a letter from among papers on the bed. "I've been reading this letter Robert wrote last Christmas. At the end he said he and Beth were looking forward to having a long talk with us. You know how busy they were, maybe the time ran out before they got around to asking us about Robbie." 656 'their advantage. They were quiet then, Bertha gazing out the window, through and beyond the winter sunshine, and Will lost in memories rekindled by his brother's handwriting. Robert and Beth had been a handsome couple. And good. And successful. At the family reunion the summer before, Will had jokingly tagged them Mr. And Mrs. Midas, when they drove up in a new red sports car. It was a fitting title, everything they touched seemed to work to The flaming wreckage of that little red car had deprived the world of two of its most enthusiastic and wholesome young adults. They would have been laughing, Bertha thought. They were always laughing. Beth with her head thrown back, her blond hair shining against the black leather seat, and Robert, wrinkling his eyes, his smile brilliant in his tanned face. Every moment of their lives had been rich and full. No matter what she decided, Bertha knew her husband's devotion to her would not change. He had changed in other ways, though. Next to her and their children, he had loved his brother, and he missed Robert. Already sorrow had deepened the lines in his face. | She took the letter gently from his hand. "Do you think I'm selfish, Will?" He smiled a little. "I know you're not selfish, Bertha. But we're still responsible for Robbie. No amount of side-stepping will allow us to escape that responsibility." Bertha traced the pattern of the bedspread around and around with her finger before meeting his eyes. "I'm not young anymore, Will. Ten years ago, I wouldn't have hesitated, the very thought of trying to control that hyperactive child makes me weak. There's a time in a woman's life when she's young and strong, to have children and to serve them. And... There's a time in her life for serving others." Will covered her hand with his. "You were and still are an excellent mother, Bertha. You'd be good for Robbie." "Have you forgotten, Will, how he screamed and begged us to take him home, when Robert and Beth left him overnight? And after that, when they came to visit, how he clung to his mother and wouldn't let me touch him?" Whi would have laughed, had he dared. "You two just got off to a bad start. He had probably never heard the word 'no' before. I'l] admit it's always a little hectic when he's around." Seeing the twinkle in his eye, Bertha hesitated, it had been a long time since he had laughed in the old way that made him ageless. It all had to be said sometime, so she lifted her head and went on as though she hadn't been interrupted. "Now is my time for serving others. Will... Do you remember when I could have been president of the PTA? You told me to put first things first, you and the children, and the time would come when I would be active in the community. So I cooked and baked and sewed and loved every minute of it, knowSuffer the Little Children ing you were right, that the other part of my life would also be fulfilled. Oh, Will I don't want to go against you." Tears made wiggly little paths down her cheeks. "Here, here! You're spoiling your makeup." Will sponged her face awkwardly with a tissue, and put his arms around her. "I'm not asking you to give up everything... But let's forget about it for now. I don't want you to go to that meeting with red eyes." Bertha was relieved, glad to dismiss the little boy for awhile. She went to the mirror to straighten her hair. Will watched her, his face open and glowing with admiration. "You look lovely, m'lady," he said, trying to lift the gloom that had settled around them. "Is your lecture ready?" "Yes, I've given it so many times now, I hardly have to look at the cards. They're there on the stand if you want to look them over. We're still trying to recruit volunteer workers to assist with the children at the hospital." "You've worked on this for a long time, haven't you?" He didn't expect her to answer, it was more a statement than a question. "Hmm...'Suffer the Little Children'... The title alone should sell the idea. You'll have the ladies standing in line to sign up." "T hope so." Bertha put the cards in her purse. "My heart breaks to see those little ones neglected." Will sat up on the edge of the bed. 'Bertha, if we don't take Robbie, what will become of him?" 657 'Tt will work out for the best." She spoke with a confidence she didn't feel. "Beth's parents want him to stay with them for a few more weeks, he spent so much time with them before, it's like home to him. Don't worry. Rest now and get better while I'm gone." Little Robbie! Bertha thought about him all the way to the high school auditorium where she was going to speak to the organized mothers of pre-school children. He was five years old, willful and spoiled. She shuddered, remembering her first encounter with him. Though upon arrival he was very scrubbed and mannerly, within an hour he had chased a dog through the living room, tracked mud on the carpet, and, by the time she had caught up with him, was busily shampooing the dog (whose dog it was, she never knew) in the bathtub. Sometime during his nap time he had decorated one wall of the bedroom with a life-size mural. Will had roared with laughter when he saw the giant drawing 658 of himself. Bertha smiled. The likeness was grotesque, but there. Oh, she had tried to laugh, but deep in her immaculate housekeeper's heart, she was glad his visits were infrequent. "... To be concerned is not enough, we must do _ something...." Bertha Long spoke easily to the small group of women. Her delivery was simple and straightforward, because she believed in what she was saying. Her crusade—it had been merely a personal interest at the time— for better conditions at the Statesupported hospital for retarded and emotionally disturbed children, had begun with an article for the local weekly news. Newspapers across the State had printed and reprinted the depressing facts she had _ disclosed, launching her into a service for the community she had not anticipated. The overworked, underpaid hospital staff were unable to give the children the constant and special care most of them required. Many of the severely (continued on page 694) Ramona W. Cannon Mary Kraft has won for the fourth time the Dorothy Dawe Award for distinguished journalistic coverage of the home furnishings field. The award is presented annually by the American Furniture Mart. Miss Kraft is director of the Good Housekeeping Home Building and Decorating Department. She travels widely to keep the public informed. Mrs. Margaret Moore received an unusual award for a woman from the Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce. It was for organizing the city's Anti-Crime Crusade. Mrs. Moore, Indiana's Mother of the Year in 1965, directs the Indianapolis News' public relations. Jacqueline Cochran (Mrs. Floyd B. Odlum), famous American aviatrix, author of an autobiography, The Stars at Noon, is also very successful in business, heading her own cosmetics firm. She was the only woman to enter the McRobertson LondonMelbourne race in 1934, the first woman competitor and winner in the American Bendix Transcontinental race in 1938. She was also winner of the General Billy Mitchell award as the American pilot to contribute most to aviation in 1938. In 1953, Miss Cochran was the first woman to pass the sonic barrier and exceed the speed of sound., Mrs. Constance Helmericks, author of best-selling We Live in Alaska, has written another book, Down the Wild River North (Little Brown), telling how she and her two teen-age daughters explored the Canadian Northwest by canoe. Dr. Hilda Bynoe is the first woman governor of Grenada, a British Commonwealth country. Clarissa Start (Mrs. E. Gary Davidson), prominent political and civic figure and columnist for the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, has written When You're a Widow, from her own experience of widowhood after twenty-nine years of happy marriage. She stresses the part faith plays in adjustment and suggests for the eight million widows in the United States ways to become able ''to join the human race again." Marie Cosindas, former teacher of art, has surprised the art world with her colored photographs, often mistaken for old painting masterpieces. She uses a second-hand, thirty-year-old Linhof camera (which cost her $120), a friend's cast-off lens, polaroid colored film—no negative, so she makes only one copy of each picture. Her works, with their muted colors and exquisite suggestions of mystery, have been exhibited in the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, New York's Museum of Modern Art and the Chicago Art Institute. Mrs. Margaret Mackay is author of the recently published The Violent Friend: the Story of Mrs. Robert Louis Stevenson (Doubleday and Company). Stevenson wrote of his wife that she was ''all honor, anger, valor, fire,"' and ''vivid, true,... Steel-true and blade-straight.'' He said that death itself could not quench his love for her. Impeccable scholarship has gone into this absorbing biography, highly praised by critics. 659 Volume 55 September 1968 Number 9 a Belle S. Spafford, President ® Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor & Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor = Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Eina P. Haymond Mary R. Young Afton W. Hunt Elisa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love 660 Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola |. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous It Is the Litt a''Trifles make perfection, but perfection is no trifle,'' Michelangelo once replied to a friend who wondered why he spent so much time perfecting his great statues. The hours he spent retouching and polishing, softening features or adding strength to muscles, giving more expression to lips or more energy to limbs, resulted in masterpieces whose beauty and majesty endure. We cannot really tell what are the little or great events of our lives, or what small word we say or deed we do will alter our course or change the impression others have of us. In aiming for the perfection our Father would have us achieve, the little things, as well as the big, have meaning and give direction. The little things, the sum of which is our creation of our personalities, count. Little imperfections reduce the value of an otherwise beautiful piece of work. A discordant note in a symphony, a conflicting brush stroke in a painting, a harsh voice in a choir, a spot of garish color improperly presented, little things all, yet enough to keep each of them from the fullest beauty. In the same way imperfections in character prevent a person from achieving his fullest potential. Chapter 6 Mabel Harmer Maureen Taggart, a librarian, goes to Britain to study genealogy and look over an estate to which she is a joint heir. Before leaving, she meets Steve Madsen, a widower, and is much attracted to him. In England she meets Robert McPherson, an artist, who rents a cottage on the castle grounds. = By mid-February the legal work had been done to make it possible for Mrs. Murch to draw her money out of the bank. Two friends were located in the old neighborhood who could testify to her identity. A handwriting expert vouched for her signature, and an old employee at the bank said that he had served her on a number of occasions. The Taggarts put in a claim for ten pounds a month for her board, which was considered a modest enough sum by the solicitor who represented the bank. As for Mrs. Murch, she was totally indifferent as to how much If Spring Be Latewas awarded to the Taggarts or how much was left for her own use. All she wanted was an abundance of yarn for her handwork and a place to stay where she might be found by Cynthia, her long-awaited daughter. "Now, all we have to do is decide how we are going to use the money," said a jubilant Kitty. "T still vote for a youth hostel. Of course, we can only charge a shilling or two for a night, but we wouldn't have to furnish anything more than a spot for them on which to put their sleeping bags, and a fire to cook breakfast. Maybe we would have to put in sleeping cots—I'll find out. Anyway, more and more of the youth are traveling every year. They come from America now, and all over, traveling either by cycle or on foot. I'm thinking of trying it myself this summer." "Are you indeed?" her mother 663 . September 1968 questioned. "And by whose permission?" "Yours, of course," Kitty replied. "Think what a valuable fund of information I can get to help with our own project!" "To which project nothing whatever has yet been settled, or even discussed, may I remind you. So far, the idea of running a youth hostel is all in your own head." "True," Kitty nodded. "And if anyone can come up with a better idea I am quite agreeable. All I want is for us to be able to live in the castle and in the style to which I hope to become accustomed." "That is entirely reasonable," Catherine admitted. "I'm sure that none of us asks for anything more." "T am hoping that the Board of Governors will be equally reasonable," said Bruce. "They are pressing me for a decision as to our future plans. You would suppose that the entire British educational system was at stake. Anyway, I have persuaded them to wait until after the Easter vacation before I decide anything definite. That will give us a chance to visit the castle and determine if we can do anything more than just take a look, walk away, and leave it as it Is." "Never!" cried Kitty. "We must do something with it— whatever the cost." "Well, we shall see," said her Father pleasantly. "The lands, at least, are worth something. In the meantime, we will look forward to a pleasant holiday in Scotland, come April." "And it won't be a walking holiday," added Catherine. 664 Next to Kitty, Maureen was probably the one most interested in the forthcoming visit to Scotland and the castle. She refrained from saying very much about it, however, since the time or two she had spoken with some enthusiasm was immediately interpreted as enthusiasm for the cottage and its occupants. She had hung the painting of the cottage in her room and had to admit—to herself, at least—a deep and growing admiration for the lovely scene. Kitty, on the other hand, was so entranced with the painting of the castle that Maureen finally hung it down in the living room. That meant it was no longer necessary for Kitty to come to her room once or twice daily to stand in rapt admiration. One day early in March, Maureen was excited to receive an air mail letter from Steve Madsen stating that he was going to Brussels for a few days on business for his company and would have a four-hour wait between planes at the Shannon airport. He suggested that it might be a pleasant interlude for her to come over and meet him on that day. "I understand that Shannon is a free port," he wrote, "and you might even want to do some shopping. In any event, if you haven't as yet seen Ireland from the air, I'm sure it is high time you did." Maureen agreed most heartily. She had been spending long hours at Somerset House the past few weeks on her family research, and without very much success. She felt that she was ready for a break of any kind. This par- ticular break seemed especially desirable. She wrote back immediately saying that she would plan to be at the airport in time for his arrival at ten A. M. On the appointed date, she arrived at the London airport early in the morning. At the desk she was told, "We may be fogged in for a short time, but we anticipate that you'll be able to go over before noon." She wanted to argue that noon was not early enough, that she wanted most urgently to be there during the whole of the morning. In fact, she wanted to leave immediately in order to be there and see the ten o'clock plane from America touch down on the ground. But there didn't seem to be much point in stressing the inconsistencies of the weather. No one in London, nor anywhere else, for that matter, argued about the weather. They might grumble and wish for better but, in the end, they accepted whatever came and made the best of it. She could do no less. She settled down with what patience she could muster to watch the people milling about the airport waiting rooms. Since no planes were taking off, the crowds became increasingly great. Some appeared to be very much disturbed and _ checked almost. Constantly on the weather reports. Others seemed to be philosophical about the whole thing and whiled away the time reading, walking about, or eating. She remembered a film she had seen once of this same situation where the lives of several people were changed drastically because their plane for New York was delayed overnight. She wondered If Spring Be Late if there were some here today to whom the delay might make a startling difference. How much difference would it make in her own life if she were not able to go over at all? But there was no need to speculate or to worry about that. The report was that the fog would surely lift by noon. That would give her at least an hour to visit with Steve, providing the time schedules had correlated, as they were supposed to do. A young woman with a baby in her arms and a youngster of two or so, sat down next to her. Both children were restless and squirming about. "Tt's hard to wait with children, isn't it?" Maureen mentioned., "It most certainly is," the woman replied. "I came over by boat, but I was so seasick that I decided I would swim back, if necessary, rather than go through that again—especially with children. I have been congratulating myself on how much easier this would be. Now I am not so sure. I haven't traveled by air before, and I was nervous to begin with. This waiting surely isn't going to help." "Oh, but it can't be very long," Maureen said encouragingly. "If it lifts by noon—as they say it will, you ll soon be on your way. Where do you go?" "To New York City first, and then on to Virginia. I have been visiting my parents over here and letting them get acquainted with their grandchildren. Do you go there also?" "Eventually, but not today. I am going just over to Shannon 665 September 1968 to meet a friend who will be there for a few hours between flights. And I'm sure you'll feel all right about your trip once you get on the plane. It will take only a few hours, and you'll be back safe and sound on the other side of the ocean." The little boy, who had been tugging constantly at hismother's hand, broke away and disappeared into the crowd. "Oh, dear!" she cried. "I'll have to go after him!" Maureen held out her arms for the baby and was handed the infant without another word, as the young mother fled and was swallowed up by the crowd. When a quarter of an hour had passed and she had not returned, Maureen began to worry about what she would do in case her plane was called. So far, none had been announced, but she wanted to be ready to jump and run the minute there was a chance to do so. She most certainly didn't want to be left holding a baby. It was one thing to be delayed by a fog, over which no one had any control, and another to be delayed while acting as a volunteer babysitter—no matter how much sympathy was involved. She was not much encouraged when she heard an announcer over the loud speaker ask for the whereabouts of a lost child, a little boy dressed in blue, between two and three years of age. She began looking about to see if there was some kindly appearing woman near by to whom she might shift her burden in case of dire emergency. She was cheered somewhat by the looks of the weather out- 666 side. It seemed that the fog was beginning to lift. Other passengers seemed to be aware of it and began returning from the dining rooms and other spots where they had been. In another fifteen minutes the imminent departure of the first plane was announced. Niow Maureen was really concerned. Would the big planes or the small ones be allowed to take off first? Hers would be one of the latter, but she had no idea what the procedure would be. She turned to a gentleman sitting in the next chair and asked if he could give her any information concerning the flight pattern. "Tt will likely be the big ones first," he said. "But all will be delayed, even after the clearing. They can't all use the runways at the same time, you know, regardless of schedules." Maureen nodded. She glanced at the clock for the hundredth time. It was half after eleven now. She would have to get to Ireland in a hurry if she was to meet Steve even so briefly. One obstacle was soon removed. The young mother came rushing back, clutching her runaway firmly by the hand. "['m dreadfully sorry,' she said, taking back the baby. "I had an awful time trying to find him in this mob. I'll be so thankful to get him inside a plane and strapped down to a seat." Maureen nodded. 'Take it easy,' she said. "You'll have several hours of peace and quiet once you get aboard. And you'll find the stewardesses ever so helpful." The plane for New York was called a few minutes later, and the little family hurried away. Aureen walked over to a window to watch them climb aboard and take off into the sky. It was nearly one before her own flight was called, and she went into the Plane with stil] some small hopes of reaching Shannon in time. After all, Ireland was only a jump away. Being called was one thing, and taking off was something else, Above the clouds she forgot all else. It was wonderful to see the blue Sky again. She had algreen isle looked like a poem come true. They landed smoothly and, as She walked into the waiting room, She looked eagerly at the crowd Welcoming the; Sengers, two. If Steve's plane was leaving it was out there now on the Tunway and he was inside. There were hundreds of people Waiting, li had left. "It's just leaving, Miss," was the disheartening reply. "It's out there on the runway. Did you plan to take it?" 'f Spring Be Late Maureen shook her head. "No," She said, "] was just hoping to see one of the Passengers." How much she was hoping she hadn't realized until that moment. "Ah!" exclaimed the clerk. "Do you happen to be Miss Taggert?" "Yeas!" aureen walked over to a window to read the brief message. Teen minutes and I kept h last. There was no chance to change my next time. She was terribly disappointed and d omen as to her future path. Perhaps, if they had met, she would And again—maybe not. There might Plane was soon out of sight, and now She realized that She was very hungry—hungry enough to eat the lunch all by herself that she had expected to Share with Steve. She made her way to a dining room and sat in a far corner. She could get a plane back to London 667 September 1968 at five o'clock, and there was no need to hurry. She might as well take advantage of the pleasure there might be in studying the people. They obviously came from all parts of the globe, and it was rather exciting to look them over and see if she could determine from where they came. After lunch she decided to walk through the shop and makea few purchases. The girls had all been intrigued about her going to Shannon, a free port, and the wonderful buys she might make. She walked about, merely looking for some time, then purchased a » cashmere sweater for herself and gloves for the two Taggart girls. "Perhaps this is the time to get a wedding gift for Diane," she decided. After browsing about, looking over everything from china to silver, she decided upon a linen tablecloth. After all, Irish linen, purchased right in Ireland, would be something a girl could always cherish. She was tempted to buy one for herself, also, but could not get into the right mood. After her disappointment in not meeting Steve, romanceseemed to have been pushed far into the background. Perhaps she would go on using her old tablecloths for the rest of her days. She thought some of taking a ride out into the country—providing she could find transportation. She would welcome anything rather than turning around and going back home again. But, on second thought, she decided against it. The Taggarts would be expecting her and would be worried if she didn't appear some time during the evening. 668 She indulged in a bit more window shopping, then took her purchases back to the waiting room and settled down until time to board her plane. The ride back was still interesting, even if the glow of anticipation had vanished. The sky was still blue and the grass was still green—as green as Ireland, she couldn't help thinking. The landing at London was uneventful and she rode into town to take the tube out to Bahlen again. The girls were almost breathless with excitement and quesions. She was scarcely inside the door until Kitty demanded, "Oh, do tell us all about it! Did you have a perfectly marvelous time?" "Thad a perfectly horrid time— almost," Maureen replied, "The airport at London was fogged in, and by the time I arrived at Shannon the plane for Brussels was just taking off." "But surely," Kitty insisted, "he must have been watching at the window so that he could wave to you." "He may have been. But, if so, I didn't see him." "Oh, but I am sure that he must have seen you." "T have no way of knowing," said Maureen. "All I know is that the plane was just taking off. So I had a lonely lunch, did a bit of shopping, and came back home again." "Then, the day was a total loss," Kitty sighed. "Not at all,' Maureen replied brightening. "I saw Ireland from the air. It was a beautiful sight. It was one that I shall never forget." (to be continued) Jean Anderson Jensen a The happy privilege of sharing this memorable experience with you has come about because I answered "ves" to the following four "golden" questions: Marthys J. Van Os 1. Do you believe The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the only true church? 2. Will you serve with your husband on a building mission for the Church in West Berlin, Germany? 3. Would you like to go on a week-end trip to Paris for your birthday anniversary? 4. Would you please write an article for The Relief Society Magazine telling about your trip to Holland? The Lord was certainly guiding our footsteps, as he had done throughout our recently completed, glorious mission, because, when my husband, Marc, went to purchase tickets to Paris, they were sold out, and they suggested we fly by way of Amsterdam, Holland, and see the great Tulip Show at Kuekenhof, which was to open the next day. That jet ride through fantastic cloud formations was the most beautiful I have ever experienced, and I captured some of the cloud mountains and canyons in our camera. As we crossed the boundary into Holland, a charming stewardess presented each passenger with a Dutch chocolate ball like a segmented orange, saying "Compliments of Queen Juliana Louise Emma Marie Wilhelmina on the fifty-fifth anniversary of her birth." The date was April 30, 1964, and I impulsively said "Thank you, it is my birthday anniversary, too." She congratulated me, bowed, and gave me another chocolate "orange," a symbol used because Queen Juliana is from the royal "House of Orange." Holland, or "The Kingdom of the Netherlands," was fascinating to see from the air because of its network of canals and rivers which made a pretty pattern on the green, green pastures. I thought of Hans Brinker winning his silver skates as he skated on these frozen canals. It was a breathtaking sight to see Amsterdam, the capital city, in a flash of brilliant sunlight below us. It was like a sea of red tile roofs separated by light blue canals. As we alighted, the band started to play, and Dutch flags were waved as the dignitaries welcomed the couple from America who were representing the American Florists and presented them with a large bouquet of prize tulips. We pretended it was all for us, and gaily took the bus from the airport to the city. We saw trees decorated with artificial oranges along the way, and when we arrived, we ran excitedly and took pictures before it was too dark. A man was turning the crank to make music on an ornate, garishly painted hurdy-gurdy which was only used on holidays; children were dancing and playing accordions on the festive streets; and, in a shop window, there was a lovely picture of Queen Juliana and her Prince Con- 669 learned a ough the windows: ye near it with a s we sa snteresting architecture, an opes at hoist the furniture up thr th Centraal Hotel. There was a squa band d essed in fancy uniforms en were very impressive in sea level. The shallow puilding Pro gram, ears before d yelationsh!; whi prevented er e daughters re Their four children at lly, there husband from seeing it all on television. Beatrix, lren Francisca, an Christina. Liament Houses are also Jocated at The Hague and they -. September, hich time there is 4 The two par at whl convene on the third 670 A Dutch Treat national celebration. We saw the Peace Palace, the scene of the Peace Conferences held beginning May 18, 1899. The Hague International Peace Conference was one of the most important events which marked the close of the 19th century and is known as "The first great Parliament of Man." Many nations have donated furnishings and valuable gifts for the Peace Palace. We stood in awe when we visited the Royal Art Galleries in The Hague as we saw the art works of Rembrandt, Peter Paul Rubens, van Gogh, and others. Rembrandt's "The Anatomical Lesson" ls indelibly painted in my mind. It is a very large painting in blacks and whites of a group of doctors around the body of a dead man, studying the inner structure of the arm. The expressions on their faces and the delicate hands of the doctor explaining are a triumph of art. "Adam and Eve" by Rubens is a marvel of detail and color. A very obliging waiter attended us at a quaint Dutch restaurant and informed us that Holland is famous for its dairy products, chocolate, Dutch beer, fish, and apple pancakes. We can vouch for the delicious apple pancakes. The waiter wds interested in the moral standards of the Church and accepted the address of the mission home. He said the housing shortage is acute, and when young people marry, they must wait five years for an apartment and live with their parents until then. There are approximately twelve million people on 12,978 square miles. A comparison might be made with the state of Utah, which has only a little over a million people in 84,916 square miles. We saw "raw herring stands" where they sell them as we sell hot dogs. They say "a raw herring a day keeps the doctor away." The first herring caught during the season is presented to the Queen. It was intensely interesting to visit the Delft china factory and to watch the craftsmen at the potters' wheels making the famous blue Delft china. It is all hand-painted, and is distinctly a Dutch art. I would have loved to acquire the "Vermeer Girl" plate, but it was $200. "The miniature city of Madurodam, showing the life of Holland, captivated us. It was given to the Dutch people by Mr. And Mrs. J. M. L. Maduro of Wilhelmstad, capital city of Curacao, Dutch West Indies in the Caribbean Sea, in memory of their only son George who was honored in 1940 with the "Militar-Willemsorder, " and who died, in 1946, in the concentration camp at Dachau, Germany. That incredible little city of Madurodam, built to exact scale, took two years to build, from 1950 to 1952. There are electrically run trains, cars, buses, and boats, and, at night 44,000 tiny electric lights shine through the windows of the buildings and on the streets and it looks like a fairyland. It is a delight to children and adults alike. Along the coast we saw the dazzling white dunes of Holland and the famous beach and hotel at Kurhaus, gathering place for theater and movie stars, and all types of artists who are entertained at the surrounding night clubs. We saw one couple in native costume and regretted that our tour did not include Volendam or the province of Zeeland, where the traditional costume—pantaloons, full skirts, starched caps, aprons, and wooden shoes are the usual attire. We would have liked to have seen the great Cheese Market with the small gondola style boats filled with huge balls of Gouda, Ementaler, and other cheeses, where the men selling the cheeses wear different colored hats to denote the kind of cheese they sell. 671 September 1968 But, where was Kuekenhof and the Tulip Show? Imagine our disappointment, upon returning, to find that our tour had not included them. We had given up our room at the hotel, thinking we would leave that night and found there were no other rooms available after waiting in the hot confusion of an extremely crowded terminal for two hours. In desperation, we decided to. Call the mission home to see if they could refer us to any saints who would rent us a room for the night. Two missionaries insisted that we wait right there until they came. We ate a Dutch croquette and sipped scalding hot Dutch chocolate from an automat and wondered if we would recognize the missionaries. It wasn't difficult—they looked like all missionaries—wonderful! We had the privilege of staying in the mission home with the President and Sister Van Slotten, in a wooded suburb. We learned that Holland comes from "Holtland" or wooded land. The German word for wood is "Holz." We knelt with the missionaries around the beautiful big oval table in prayer and next morning, enjoyed the pancakes the elders had prepared. Then we helped the lady missionaries put up sack lunches, because this was the special day when the missionaries gathered from the whole Netherlands Mission, which also included Belgium, for a conference and a visit to the Tulip Show. We realized their challenge language-wise, because of the Hollandish language which has similarities to low German, the Flemish language of Belgium, the areas where French and old Frisian are spoken, and the dialects from all of them. Holland is still a land of religious freedom, as it was in the time of the Pilgrims. The Netherlands Mission of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was established in 1861. Blessing of blessings, there was a place for us in the car, and we went directly to the Tulip Show, rather than trying to see the parade, which was very crowded. There were forty acres devoted to this show, and each view was as if a master artist had painted it. If heaven is more beautiful, my mind cannot fathom it. The tulips of all varieties, along with daffodils, hyacinths, azaleas, and other blooms were beauty spots of pink, red, lavender, yellow, purple, blue, orange, white, and every other conceivable shade of the rainbow in a park of gorgeous trees with moss on their north sides because of the constant dampness of the climate, and lakes, streams, bridges, grottoes and a beautiful windmill. There was a light rain the whole time, but it only heightened the beauty and intensified the colors. We watched the missionaries as they gathered around their beloved leader and felt humble and thrilled to be a small part of this wonderful work of sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ. As we drove to the airport, we saw boatloads of tulip blooms which had been removed to send the strength to the bulb, and saw rosy-cheeked Dutch girls selling leis of the tulip blooms about five feet long and a foot wide to motorists to put on the hoods of their cars. It was difficult properly to express our gratitude to the dear saints who had been so kind to us and as we thanked them and our Father in heaven for this "bonus blessing," we remembered the scripture "Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him." (I Corinthians 2:9.) Brave, beautiful Holland, Fighting back the sea. You and your wonderful people God bless thee. 672 —— —. <a The oldest bridge over the oldest canal in Amsterdam, Holland. Note the graceful arch. Typical Dutch apartment houses in Amsterdam. Note the giant hooks projecting out from the tops of the buildings. The hooks are for holding ropes which are used for hoisting the furniture through the windows. Se _— ot omtace. One of the few windmills left in Holland. Electric water pumps have taken over the battle against the invasion of the sea. 'The Ridderzaal'' part of the General Assembly of The Hague at Madurodam, the miniature city in Holland, presented to the people of Holland by Mr. And Mrs. J. M. L. Maduro in memory of their only son George, who died at Dachau, Germany, in 1946. 'Y = Keukenhof, Holland. ''Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him." (I Corinthians 2:9.) A glimpse of the tulip gardens at Keukenhof, Holland.? 2 The Upper Provo River, bordered by grasses, trees, and flowers Transparencies by the author A Little Walk Along the Upper Provo River (Utah) Claire Noall ws The evening light was already etching the meadow plants when I set out for a short tramp through field and forest. The music of the purling, plunging stream and the smell of resin and earth, moisture and spent summer, quickened the twilight air. A lowly glance in this high country—some 8,000 feet or more—freed in my veins a spiral of joy that mounted to my fingers and climbed with. My step. As a matter of habit, I took along my favorite lens. This, however, would have been nothing without the lens of my heart. There is something about a curve in nature that diminishes the square manmade corners of the city. A rosette of mountain thistle leaves, deep-cleft, lacepointed, springing from a bed of cacti, fitted into the great round of nature, the cosmic round. Inconsequential though it may appear, to me it depicted the earth mother at work, with such a soft, lovely green and magical energy that she compelled my lens to work. Near this silvery cluster the stock of thistle in bloom (both being Cirsium eatonii) described what the rosette could produce. On a pine-perfumed breeze, each small cream and orchid-colored swordthrust of bloom whispered: I am complete, a flower Mountain thistle leaves (Cirsium etonia) Flower of the mountain thistle Foliose Lichen (''Pansies in Stone'') in five parts, quite by myself. But the whole Composite family cannot equal the creator of life and the destroyer of stone to be found among the lichens. A lowly look? This? Lichen is one of the strangest members of the entire plant kingdom. Worldwide in distribution, it is flowerless. Yet, flowerlike, it produces delicate filaments, or hyphae, which can cling to stone at any altitude. They can even penetrate the rock. From the sea to the last earthexposed surface on the highest mountain, in its symbiotic partnership between a fungus and an algae, it works endlessly. There are many different kinds of lichen, but in my meadow I saw these "pansies," this encrustation of foliose lichen as a subject for a painting. Form- (continued on page 692) Deep blue pond, fringed with grass and flowers Willow Herb (Fireweed Onagracaea) " Foxglove (Penstemon cyanthus) ee ee ae aa 4 oe - ss Pa 6 4 ae 2 A Nursery for Loving Care Virginia Tippetts, President, Eleventh Ward Relief Society Annie Merrill Ballantyne, President, University West Stake Relief Society Transparency by Hal Rumel # Four things inspired the Eleventh Ward Relief Society of University West Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah, to redecorate the ward nursery room: 1. A desire to encourage young mothers to come and become better acquainted with Relief Society. 2. A wish to create a place where children would love to come, and have a happy time while there. 3. A way in which to use wisely some of the money a dear, loving sister left to the Relief Society in her eighty-ninth year. 4. <A way to help little children learn to love the gospel. With permission to do this, many hours were spent in planning, measuring, shopping, sanding, drawing, and painting roads on tables, covering chairs, decorating a "Doll House Cupboard," designing and painting giraffes to outline the blackboard. We used our nursery for the first time at the March 17 Relief Society Birthday Party, building our program around children, and asking the sisters to enter into the spirit of children and birthdays by bringing gifts to fill the new cupboard. Their response was wonderful. There was joy of accomplishment for us who actually worked on the (continued on page 693) 678 Chore Chart Ann Muir Anderson es Children of any age love the idea of not being told what to do, and will perform their duties better if the responsibility is placed directly on their shoulders. However, there must be a means of controlling the situation. In our family we have found an ideal solution. It is a combination chore chart-wall hanging. It not only makes a lovely decoration, but also takes the nagging out of getting children to do their chores. There are two sets of pockets on the chore chart, an upper set for placing a record of work accomplished and a lower set, for work assignments. Materials Needed 1/, yard of colorful burlap, 36" wide felt and yarn for decorative purposes 1 20" length of '/," dowel To Make Pull the threads along the two raw edges of the piece of burlap to make Transparencies by Dorothy J. Roberts Model: Wendy Christine Anderson a fringe 1 inch wide to form the side edges. Turn one end with a selvage edge (this will be the bottom of the chart) up 4 inches and baste in place. Then cut a piece 5 inches wide off the other end of the chart, with a selvaged edge, for use in making the top set of pockets. Baste and stitch this strip onto the chart, turning the raw edge under 1 inch. The space between the sets of pockets should be 2 inches Measure and mark with chalk the divisions of the strips for making the pockets. Since the strips, not counting the fringe, will be 16 inches wide, divide the 16 inches equally into pockets, the number of pockets depending upon the number of children in the family. For example, if there are four children in the family, each pocket will be 4 inches wide. After the divisions have been marked, 'begin at the bottom of the chart, and stitch the pocket divisions straight up to the top of the top set of pockets. Now turn a hem one inch deep at the top of the chart and stitch to form a casing for the dowel. (continued on page 693) 679 The Wonder of Bulbs Alice Willardson = Bulbs are reassuring signposts of the returning splendor of blossoms. They produce a sort of instant flower. In fact, if by mischance you happen to split a bulb, you may see that the flower is already formed in the heart of the bulb, and enough food is stored for the first flowering. Bulbs can give color and variety, with ease of planting—surer beauty for less effort. They require no coddling. Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts RULES TO REMEMBER There are two important rules and they are easily mastered. First, keep their feet dry. Bulbs are subject to rot, and must be planted in a dry place with good drainage. Second, when they are through blooming, pick the flower if you have not done so, and allow the foliage to remain until it is dry. This is important if you want blooms of maximum size a second year, because the foliage feeds the depleted bulb and provides the food for next year's flower. These two rules apply universally to all bulbs. Bulbs require a mulch of humus or compost to keep the topsoil soft so they can break through, however, bulbs should be fertilized sparingly. Bonemeal and wood ashes, mixed in the soil, are good for bulbs. Pests and diseases of bulb plants are negligible if the ground is not kept too wet. Little bulbs for a big spring bring color to a gray world and the assurance of spring. The small bulbs should be planted at a depth of two to three inches and the larger bulbs four to eight inches, depending on the heaviness | of the soil, whether it is sandy or clay. Always check carefully directions for depth of planting. You can choose any lovely fall day for planting and, if you want the flowers extra early, plant them in a sunny, sheltered spot facing south. Crocuses, hyacinths, narcissi, daffodils, snowdrops, and many others will greet and cheer you as the first signs of spring. The joy and variety of tulips will gladden your heart. The blooming time in many areas is from early spring, into summer, and the types and colors are endless. The pointed petal, lily flowering type usually blooms earliest. Some Darwin tulips, like the Red Emperor, bloom early. Then there are (continued on page 692) 680 @ ry) oS ® > < 0 2. =| ~ S yv Ss] 9 9 =. Ay re) 3 Qa ~ a = "n >: o = = 3 - ay ae | ber | a) < @ yy be | Q ® = >: ~~ > ® 2 © ~~ > © al ry) 3 Q 7) Oa | ali. Oe * Photograph by Antonia Copier An Old-Fashioned Fair for Harvest Time Dee Berrett Maynard Riverton First Ward Riverton Stake, Utah Violet Page Hamilton, President Riverton Stake Relief Society Adel T. Maynard, President Riverton First Ward Relief Society The wheel of autumn turns to the bounties of nature—color in gold and orange and green and purple. A When we began to plan our bazaar in early summer, we decided on a two-fold purpose. We needed to add to the funds of the organization, but even more, we wanted to provide a memorable evening for the families of our ward to enjoy. The decoration committee, under the direction of Edna Cowdell, Shirley L. Newman, Faye Stradley, and Evelyn Bills, gathered up all the refrigerator packing boxes they could find. The boxes were taken apart and painted brown to make the walls of the booths. To support the walls, we used bales of straw which had been donated by one of the members. 'These were stacked two high along the sides of the display area. Along the back, lengths of lumber were laid between the first and second bales, and across the top to the second bale, making two convenient shelves for displaying articles. The booths were arranged in a "U" shape. Between the booths, and as a special dis- © play in the area reserved for eating, the bounties of the harvest were beautifully arranged—pumpkins, squashes, cabbages, Indian corn, onions, tomatoes, cauliflower, and wheat, along with Oregon grape sprigs and lovely sprays of Pyracantha. One side of the "U" shape ran across the cultural hall, segregating one end for eating. Our "Old-Fashioned Fair" featured many booths: Ye Olde Bake Shop, with all kinds of baked goods, but an especially varied selection of fruit cakes; an apron gallery; Grandma's pantry, complete with homemade soap, canned goods, onions, carrots, cheese, and other household supplies; a Candy Palace, specializing in handdipped chocolates; many handicraft displays, including quilts and handkerchiefs. The younger set could be outfitted from the Jack and Jill shop, and early Christmas shoppers found a great variety of gifts and a special gift-wrapping service. The "Fair" was indeed a memorable experience, richly rewarding to the Relief Society women, their families, and their guests. 682 HER org ty bP Grandma's Old-Fashioned Pantry Standing at the left: Shirley Newman; seated, Marsha Shaw With needle and thread and scraps something beautiful is made. Standing at one of the handicraft displays, Rebecca Dansie Gift Cookies for All Occasions Melba S. Payne ws Not just for Christmas, but for Mother's Day, birthdays, wedding anniversaries, or just as an extra gift for someone special, these dainty hand-rolled and elegantly packed morsels are scrumptious looking and delicious to eat. The simple basic dough is easy to make, and creating the various centers and coverings is interesting fun. Packed in boxes like fine candies or placed in pretty decorated paper bowls, these cookies lend a festive air to any occasion. Color Photograph by the author BASIC DOUGH 8 ounces butter substitute 1 tsp. Grated orange rind / c. Sugar 2%, c. White flour (sifted) 1 egg yolk (unbeaten) Let the shortening soften. Add sugar gradually, creaming until light and fluffy. Add egg yolk and orange rind. Mix until evenly blended. Add the flour in fourths, mixing well after each addition. Final dough should form a smooth, compact ball. Pinch off pieces of dough one inch in diameter. After filling the centers with the various goodies, roll into balls and bake in 325 degree oven for 25 to 30 minutes or until a light brown. Do not overbake. VARIATIONS Stuffed Date Tuck-ins Stuff half dates with a piece of walnut and place in dough. Hand roll into a smooth ball. Place on a lightly greased cookie sheet and bake as directed. While cookies are still warm, shake them in a sack of powdered sugar and again when they are cool. Pecan Logs ( Add chopped pecans to the basic dough and shape into small logs one inch long. Dip in unbeaten egg white and roll in chopped pecans and bake. Chocolate Nuggets Place two or three chocolate chips in the centers. Substitute vanilla flavoring in the dough for these instead of the orange rind. Roll in powdered sugar after baking, or in the egg white, or in chocolate sprinkles, or small colored candies, before baking. Bake as for the pecan logs. Cherry Hide-a-Ways Insert a candied cherry or any of the fruit pieces from fruit cake mix. Chocolate Fancies If you would like a chocolate cookie, just melt some of the chocolate chips and add to the dough (without orange rind). Roll in the egg white, then add chopped walnuts, and bake. Remember a light brown. Do not overbake. 684 iS) £ eal = =] 7 ® ® i a i > QO =~ © c ® pwe fs] Q wn = © i ad | Cc (o) o i °o — a um <x ~~ oO ~ ~ v % ) i c fs) = As] 2 ao = — ""SNOWSTORM"' by Joseph Mallord William Turner (1775-1851) British La — For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 5—Appreciation of Beauty Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, March 1969—Southern Hemisphere: July 1969. Commentary on page 690. "PORTRAIT OF A YOUNG MAN" by Rembrant van Ryn (1606-1669) Dutch Taft Museum, Cincinnati, Ohio For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6—The Reward of Persistence Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1969—Southern Hemisphere: August 1969. Commentary on page 689. 686 "SELF PORTRAIT' by Rembrant van Ryn (1606-1669) Dutch National Gallery of Art, Washington D. C. For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6—The Reward of Persistence Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, April 1969—Southern Hemisphere: August 1969. Commentary on page 6839. q Sse 'LADY JEAN" by George Bellows (1882-1925) American Yale University Art Gallery Bequest of Stephen Carlton Clark, B. A., 1903 For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 4—The Satisfaction of Growth Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1969—Southern Hemisphere: June 1969. Commentary on page 691. 688 "Two Self Portraits' By Rembrant van Ryn (1606-1669) Dutch Portrait of a Young Man—Taft Museum, Cincinnati, Ohio Self Portrait—National Gallery of Art, Washington D. C. Paintings on pages 686, 687. Commentary by Floyd E. Brienholt, Associate Professor of Art, Brigham Young University. For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 6—The Reward of Persistence Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1969—Southern Hemisphere: August 1969. The greatest of the Dutch Masters One of the greatest painters who ever lived The master of light One true to himself Possessed of integrity Persistent Followed his "star" Made the ugly beautiful No pose—no vanity Searcher of truth Dramatic but never theatrical Valued truth and sincerity above harmony and beauty Painter of the human sou] He was a successful portrait painter at the age of twenty-five. He married a woman of wealth, bought a house, collected works of art, and painted industriously. After the death of his wife his popularity as a painter of out his lifetime his fame as an artist stood high and has increased through the years, but as one author states, "Fame alone does not suffice to make a livelihood." One reason we know him so well is because of the amazing record of his life he left in his many self portraits—about sixty in oil alone. His face examples of his virtuosity as a master of the brush, but more important, 689 '*Snowstorm" by Joseph Mallord William Turner (1775-1851) British The National Gallery, London, England Painting on page 685. Commentary by Floyd E. Brienholt, Associate Professor of Art, Brigham Young University. For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 5—Appreciation of Beauty Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, March 1969—Southern Hemisphere: July 1969. Ws What is beauty? "Beauty is truth—truth is beauty." What is truth—that for which all search, that which, when discovered, strikes a harmonious chord within us, and we experience a spiritual or aesthetic thrill? Are the works of Joseph Turner beautiful? Are they true? Joseph M. W. Turner, the London born artist, lover of the sea, world traveler, romanticist and innovator, was and still is a controversial figure. Important critics have differed intensely in their reaction to his works. Some acclaim him as a forerunner of our present expressionistic art and one who inspired the impressionists. John Ruskin, essayist, art,' critic and contemporary of Turner's, was greatly inspired by him. In the essay from Modern Painters printed in the lesson, Ruskin puts into words what he believed Turner was saying in paint. Implied in the essay is the idea that instead of painting the obvious, Turner chose an unusual moment and dramatized it forcefully, using an exaggerated splendor of light and movement to portray a truth. His great experience with the sea and as a sailor gave him a certain authority. It is said that at one time he asked the sailors to lash him to the mast during a terrific storm at sea so that he could experience the power and majesty of the elements. He was tied there for four hours before they could release him. This experience inspired "The Snowstorm." Another writer, Julius Meier—Graefe in his book Modern Art, 1908, was less impressed with Turner's paintings and has this to say: "To pile things up! This became Turner's principle more and more as the years passed by. To bring together as many things as a frame would hold, then to shake them up vigorously, and leave the rest to Ruskin!" There is no doubt that Turner's paintings were different from any at his time and prior to it, that they radiate an emotional quality and an excitement of color and motion bathed in light not known before. They exclude use of realistic detail and one stands in awe at his concept of light. Do his paintings strike a chord of harmony within you? Do you see what you sense to be true? We leave you to decide—what is truth? What is beauty? Is it in the eye of the beholder? 690 oF ""Lady Jean by George Bellows (1882-1925) American Yale University Art Gallery Bequest of Stephen Carlton Clark, B. A., 1903. Painting on page 688. Commentary by Floyd E. Brienholt, Associate Professor of Art, Brigham Young University. For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 4—The Satisfaction of Growth Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1969—Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 = We can be sure of one thing. That is change. Nothing remains static. Whether change means growth is a matter of question. Growth implies a movement toward a better or more ideal state or situation. History is a record of this change and art history reflects this change in some tangible form. The paintings of George Bellows reflect changes in a growing America. It is for you to decide whether or not this change is growth. During the late 19th and early 20th centuries a group of artists who called themselves "The Eight" wished to get away from the repetitious and sentimental in landscape and figure painting. They painted uninhibited scenes of life in the streets or crowded tenements of the big city, _ claiming that this was real life. They were self-termed American realists. Although George Bellows was not one of "The Eight,' he admired them and was a friend of most of them. He chose similar subject matter and worked in the same manner—rebelling against the academic and trite. His subjects covered many facets of the changing American life—city streets, sports, romantic landscapes, and, in his later mature life, character portraits. He never went to Europe to study, as was common practice among artists at that time, but treated his subject matter in an expressive technique with bold draftsmanship, slashing strokes, and heavy paint. His remarkable visual memory made it possible for him to work rapidly to give a strong impression of actuality. In the painting "Lady Jean," we see the artist's younger daughter dressed in her mother's "grown-up" clothes. It has a nostalgic quality for most of us because we remember our own experiences at that age or because we see our own children dressing up and imitating adults. Although much less dramatic and active than his paintings of prize fights and the rugged reality of his time, it is appealing in its youthful beauty—one of the best loved paintings in American art history. The great artist (Bellows in this example) finds beauty and truth in the commonplace and paints it so that we almost feel as if it is our own discovery. As one writer so aptly put it, most discoveries are 'suddenly seen things that were always there." 691 September 1968 A LITTLE WALK ALONG THE UPPER PROVO RIVER (UTAH) (continued from page 677) ing another round of nature, it seems to be nothing at all, except for the picture. But nothing? If a colony of lichen is destroyed, another one immediately begins to take its place. Over an eon of time the guest may completely destroy the host. Neither the fungus nor its symbiotic partner—the algae—can live without the other member. The fungus makes no chlorophyll. The algae produces the green coloring matter from which sugar is derived, and thus protein, as essential to plant life as to animal. The lichen provides water and dissolved minerals, which it has derived from the host (not always rock). This is probably the only case in nature where one name refers to two organisms. From the chlorophyll is produced the exquisite cocoa-brown shade of our "pansies," with their brightly tinted hearts, as beautiful as the dyes made from lichen by primitive peoples. From the minute lichen cups—seen in the picture with a small hand-glass that magnifies only sixteen times—the filaments are working on the stone, gradually prying away microscopic particles and dissolving them. The cast-off portion of the filaments and the rock, together with blown dust, create tiny nests for seeds and roots which lead to multiple forms of flora. Thus the plant is called the "pioneer of vegetation and soil formation." It has eaten away at the great volcanic plateau of Norway until in the infinite variety of plant life that has ensued, the beveled landbase of the mountain walls bursts into bloom in the long sunlit hours of summer. On the Provo River bank flowered a clump of Onagraceae, the willow herb, or fireweed. Long ago, in a flash of illumination, I suddenly sensed the relation of the dry, tan, cottony fruit of the fireweed to the deep rose-colored bloom. That was fun, because in those days botany had not taught me the complete work of the round, the autumn work of the fairies. In the reflected light of the stream, spires of foxglove were lending their elfin bells to butterfly and bee. One root of this Penstemon cyananthus can produce any number of stems. A burst of sunlight brightened the flower, which will hardly photograph at all without sufficient light. The forest opened for a patch of blue in sky and water to make the pond picture. Its companion was the field of all but universal goldenrod Solidago. Walking either in solitude or with friends is clearly enhanced when the lens of evening makes the "impossible" picture. Lowly? A scent-laden path? A plunging mountain stream with its rivulets? Can anything in nature be lowly? THE WONDER OF BULBS (continued from page 680) the May flowering Darwins and the Hybrid Darwins, probably the most popular today. The Parrot tulips provide fluted petals and unexpected combinations of joy to every flower lover. Even more outstanding and new are the Bouget tulips. Joy to every flower lover. Even more outstanding and new are the bouquet tulips. These produce as many as ten blossoms on a branching stem from one bulb. In each group, there are many colors and varieties. Most tulips do best in year-to-year blooming if planted from six to eight inches deep, but read the fine print of your directions and fit your plantings to your own soil and climate. Be sure to cultivate the soil below the bulb so that its roots can take hold. Do not make your tulips march in a line. They love company, so plant them in clusters of at least three. Their place in your garden will be much more effective if you plant them in beds, and they will be easier to care for. Lavish displays of cannas, lilies, dahlias, and gladioli are the pride of summer. In some areas, it is best to plant them in the spring because they are very sensitive to frost. As a rule, set them from five to six inches deep and without artificial fertilizer. In areas where the winter is cold these bulbs must be dug in the fall, dried, and stored in a cool, dark place for next year's planting. 692 A NURSERY FOR LOVING CARE (continued from page 678) project, and pleasure in the eyes of the sisters who viewed the nursery for the first time. The delight of the family of Sister Edna McCullough, in what we had done with their mother's money, and the happiness of the children as they enjoyed their new play room, encouraged us to say, If you would like happiness, joy, and deep satisfaction, then plan a project of redecorating a nursery. Sister Tippett's counselors are Kathryn Welling and Clarice Christensen. CHORE CHART (continued from page 679) Make initials for the children's names from felt, and glue them on the bottom set of pockets, or embroider the names. The lower pockets will be for work assignments, and the pockets immediately above will be for the record of completion of the work. The word ''Chores" may be appliqued above the top set of pockets. The charts may be decorated with crewel embroidery and appliqué. Patterns may be created or taken from commercial designs. Appliqué of birds, animals, flowers, or other motifs, cut from felt, make colorful and attractive adornments. A combination of appliqué and embroidery will be effective and colorful. After the appliqué and crewel embroidery have been completed, insert the dowel in the casing. Make a cord for hanging the chart by chain stitching some of the yarn used for making the tassels or use a commercial cord or piece of trim. This should be about two feet long. Attach to each end of the dowel and stitch a tassel at the upper corners of the chart. Several tassels may also be attached to the bottom of the chart. Such tassels are more pleasing to children if they are in a color different from the burlap used in making the chart. To Use Make a list of chores to be done, and cut the list into strips so that each chore is on a separate piece of paper, and place them in the bottom pockets for the children to take out and read, or, in case of the younger children, pictures showing them what to do. As each chore is completed, the child places the slip of paper in the pocket directly above the one with his name on it. Then the mother can see what has been done merely by checking the slips of paper in the upper pocket. The children feel a spirit of competitiveness, because each one can see who has done his chores and who has not. There is no limit to the colors and design that can be used, and the charts make attractive family gifts at Christmas and they are, also, economical and popular bazaar items. (— y TODAY WE LIVE Today we live, and serve, and love Nor of the future borrow; And yesterday's a worn-out glove We cannot wear tomorrow. —Renie H. Littlewood 693 September 1968 SUFFER THE LITTLE CHILDREN (continued from page 658) helpless children died of malnutrition because there was no time to feed them properly. If State funds were limited, the answer could come through voluntary help. "These little children are innocent, their parents are either unable or unwilling to care for them. Each of us has a moral responsibility to them. Our Savior loved the children. He rebuked his disciples for trying to keep them away from him. He warned that anyone who offended one of his little ones would be punished. Are we, by neglect, offending these helpless little children?" Bertha drove slowly out of the parking lot, pleased with the immediate response from the young women in the audience. Though she was tired, she dreaded going home to the unsettled issue. In the city park at the edge of town, she found a secluded area under the _ trees where she could rest and think undisturbed. Suffer the little children! The words had become almost a slogan, synonymous with the hospital. Soon there would be a good supply of women to relieve the load of the regular nurses, and women more capable than she, were ready to take over to keep the program alive. Again she remembered Robbie. At least six homes within the family loved him and wanted him. He was surrounded by all the good things of life, contrasting completely with his less fortunate counterparts at the hospital. Whom did Betty, or Sally, or 694 Dickie or the rest of them have? Most of them were the forgotten misfortunes of busy families. Wearily, Bertha rested her head on her arms as she leaned forward on the steering wheel. The warmth of the sun shining through the windshield relaxed her tense, aching shoulders. Faintly she heard babies crying. Her own babies fat and pink and perfect. She saw Will's face lighted with pride and love. Then the pitiful noisessshe had become so familiar with enveloped her, the children clung to her hands, her skirt, they wrapped their arms around her legs. Thecrying wasincessant. Apart from the others, seated on the floor and surrounded by expensive toys was a little boy. It was Robbie, crying quietly, unheard and unnoticed in the noise-filled room. His husky little body slumped, so dejected and lifeless that Bertha tried to free herself to go to him. But the children held her fast. Frantically, she looked around. Where was the nurse? Why didn't someone help the child? Bertha stirred restlessly. She was cold. Suddenly, she jerked awake, her dazed mind struggling between the dream and the reality of where she was. Relief replaced fear, her heart stopped pounding as the afternoon shadows spreading across the ground became wonderfully familiar. "Oh, thank goodness, I was dreaming!" She looked at her watch. She had slept an hour. It was late, yet she sat still, the sounds of the dream echoing in her mind. For the first time her atten- tion centered, not on Robbie the noisy, mischievous little intruder, but on Robbie... The child. Robust and spoiled he was, but very young and vulnerable. His world had been snatched away before he had had time to get acquainted with it. Were his needs less because he had no handicap? Could she, with a clear conscience, refuse to help him establish a new world? Bertha started the car. Within a few minutes she was standing in her living room, making mental notes. Will's hoarse cough hurried her into the bedroom. "Hello, dear." She kissed his cheek and stepped back for a critical look at him. "Well, you look better anyway." Will laid his book aside and moved his legs to make room for her to sit on the bed. "I was beginning to worry, did you have trouble?" Suffer the Little Children Anticipating the reason for his concern, Bertha interrupted, "No no, the old car seems to be holding her own. I drove out to the park for awhile. The women were very enthusiastic." She paused and studied her husband thoughtfully. "Will, how much would it cost to remodel the basement?" "Why? Now Bertha, you're not thinking of opening a clinic?" Bertha's laughter filled the room. "Well, not exactly. I was thinking more in terms of a miniature gymnasium. Robbie will need a place to expend some of his energy, and we can't allow him to use the new sofa for a trampoline." "Bertha, you're one in a million!" Enfolded in her husband's embrace, Bertha's soul sang with the contentment of one task well done and another begun. A WOODLAND CHILD Sprite of the woodland, young as spring, Tender as buds at opening, Down in the meadow damp with dawn, Talking to marmots, racing a fawn, Picking wild iris, wading in water; Child born of me, now she is daughter Of sunlight and wind, of hilltop and tree, And sister of. Elves only her eyes see In a blue forest where she plays house With a red tree squirrel and a gray field mouse. A leaf screened bough is a place to hide While | pretend to be mystified That she should go to live with a gnome. Dark moon magic brings her home Where pixie pipes and night owls keep The sound of woodlands in her sleep. =~ —Peggy Tangren 695 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities Sunderland Stake (England) Holds ''Achievement Day"' April 6, 1968 Left to right: Francis Downing, President, Newton Aycliffe Ward Relief Society; May Guthrie; Margaret Cheek (seated in chair); Evelyn Murray; Heather Peacock; Dorothy Currie; Jane Hancock; Lily Collin. Afton Hardy, President, Sunderland Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We held an 'Achievement Day' in our stake, which was most outstanding. Featured were displays of handiwork prepared by each of the fourteen wards and branches of the stake. Pictured is the display representing the Newton Aycliffe Ward. All of the displays were outstanding and depicted the great interest the sisters take in their work." 696 Texas South Mission, Southwest District, Eagle Pass Branch Holds First Relief Society Bazaar, February 23, 1968 Left to right: Ruby Cowan; Eva Pena, Counselor, Eagle Pass Branch Relief Society; Virginia Stephenson, missionary; Francisco Jimenez; Alica Zamarrippa, President; Oralia Maldonado; Fannie S. Hemsley, President, Southwest District Relief Society. Geneal J. Larsen, Supervisor, Texas South Mission Relief Society, reports: ''Much cooperation was evident during the preparation for the first bazaar to be held in the Eagle Pass Branch. This is a small Spanish branch, where the sisters appreciate and enjoy the lessons from the Spanish Magazine. "From the proceeds of the bazaar, they were able to purchase a new zigzag sewing machine which will be useful in preparing for future bazaars, and in teaching the members to do home sewing. "We are very proud of the accomplishments of this small branch."' Nebo Stake Relief Society Visiting Teacher Convention February 9, 1968 Gladys S. Wilson, President, Nebo Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The stake board hosted a visiting teacher convention. A special tribute to visiting teachers was given by Ruth Rothe, in which she mentioned that for 125 years visiting teachers have been spreading their glad message. "There were 252 sisters in attendance. A lovely dinner was served, followed by a fashion show. Under direction of Zella Peay, stake Homemaking Counselor, classes had been offered teaching the techniques of tailoring. Ten coats and two suits resulting from these classes were modeled. Classes will be offered again this fall. "Visiting teachers with over forty years service were honored with carnations." 697 September 1968 North Carbon Stake (Utah) Magazine Display at Singing Mothers Concert April 19, 1968 Front row, left to right: LaPriel Frandsen; Evelyn Winters; Joan Harward. Second row, left to right: Arline Brown; Parenthia Rhead. Myrna C. Broschinsky, President, North Carbon Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our Magazine representative prepared a lovely display featuring The Relief Society Magazine in connection with the Singing Mothers Concert. The centerpiece of interest was a large globe which displayed the countries of the world where Relief Society is established. 'The Singing Mothers chorus, consisting of eighty-two members, presented a concert with the theme, 'Love Makes the World Go 'Round.' ''Music was selected which portrayed the many kinds of love: love between man and wife; of family; for country; our Lord; one another; and of music itself. Light refreshments were served to 400 guests."' Zion Park Stake (Utah), Hurricane North Ward Celebrates Relief Society Birthday March 1968 Left to right, modeling wedding dresses from 150 years old to modern: Monta Ballard; Carolyn Ballard; Winona Gibson; Dorothy Spendlove; Gloria Montgomery; Gai Stratton; Mina Hutchings; Corinne Stout. Marzell L. Covington, President, Zion Park Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The birthday celebration of the Hurricane North Ward Relief Society was well received and memorable to the many sisters who attended. The theme for the event was 'Take Time for Love, for Love Is Eternal.' "The program opened the door of memory to the most special day in a woman's life, as wedding dresses were modeled. There were fifty-five dresses in all, beginning with one just three days old, culminating with one 150 years old. As the dresses were modeled, music representing that era was played. "The hall was beautifully decorated in keeping with the theme, and little wedding bands in jewel boxes were given as favors. Invitations were extended to all sisters in the stake, and attendance was over 200." Utah Stake, Provo Third and Provo Fourth Ward Relief Societies Present Programs for Anniversaries, April 25, 1968 Front row, left to right: Mildred Hall, President, Provo Third Ward Relief Society; former stake officers: Clarice Sumpter, President; Edna Williams, First Counselor; Ethel Lewis, chorister; Thelma Weight, cultural refinement class leader. Back row, left to right: Marion Seamons, Education Counselor, Provo Third Ward Relief Society; La Real Mitchell, Secretary; Geneve Shepherd, Second Counselor; Olga Nicol, Education Counselor, Provo Fourth Ward Relief Society; Eva Terry, President; Ida Bailey, Secretary; Alba Hatch, Homemaking Counselor. Clara P. Denham, President, Utah Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Two of the wards in our stake celebrated their one hundredth anniversaries within a few months of one another. We invited each of them to present part of the programs which were presented in their wards at our stake Relief Society birthday party. "The Third Ward presented a talk, supported by two tableaux formed by sisters of the ward. The thirteen former presidents of this ward were featured in an inspiring review of devoted service. "The Fourth Ward presented a short slide presentation highlighting Relief Society activity from its organization in Nauvoo to the present day in the Provo Fourth Ward, also calling attention to the devotion of twenty-three former presidents. "In addition to these presentations, appreciation was given to five retiring board members, with slides and narration about their achievements." 698 September 1968 East Ogden Stake (Utah), Thirty-Third and Forty-Third Wards Present "Thorns and Roses,'' March 1968 Front row, left to right: Ruth Webber, organist, Forty-Third Ward Relief Society; Helen Harding, President; Blanche Johnston, spiritual living class leader. Back row, left to right: Kaye Ivie, organist, Thirty-Third Ward Relief Society; Helen Hanson; Clarice Williams; Norma Willie; Wanda Blaisdell; Kathleen Newman, President, Thirty-Third Ward Relief Society; Edith Horowitz; Colleen Roberts; Idonna Brunetti, chorister, Forty-Third Ward; Mona Chase. Lillian Christiansen, President, East Ogden Stake Relief Society, reports: -''The Thirty-Third Ward and Forty-Third Ward of the East Ogden Stake Relief Society combined to present a most outstanding program in honor of the anniversary of Relief Society. 'The theme for the program was 'Thorns and Roses,' and it consisted of original prose, poetry, and song lyrics. It honored our predecessors in Relief Society, and ended with a tribute to the workers of today. The picture shows the 'Nightingales,' who presented most of the singing for the program. Research was done in early Relief Society Magazines and other sources by Blanche Johnston and Helen Harding, to gather humorous and poignant highlights to make the program outstanding." Portland West Stake (Oregon) Singing Mothers Sing Frequently Mildred M. Jensen, President, Portland West Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Music for stake quarterly conference in March was furnished by the Singing Mothers. Approximately seventy women participated. The Singing Mothers have been active this year, furnishing music for three of the past four stake conferences, and presenting an outstanding spring concert. "The concert featured not only the Singing Mothers chorus, but small ensembles and individual talent from members of the chorus. Beverly Smurthwaite is the stake chorister, and Carolyn Timothy accompanies the group." Garden Grove Stake (California) Makes Available Red Cross Home Nursing Program Standing, left to right: Beth D. Smith, Second Counselor, Garden Grove Stake Relief Society, instructor trainer; Noreen S. Osborn, spiritual living class leader, instructor trainer; Ruth Vincent, instructor; Marian Johansen, instructor. Patient: Artee Cox. Afton W. Minson, President, Garden Grove Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Garden Grove Stake Relief Society presidency felt that we should make available to the sisters in the stake a course which would qualify them for a Red Cross certificate in Home Nursing, but, more importantly, that they would be able to care for the sick in their homes and be better prepared to nurse the sick on assignment of the president. "Santa Ana Chapter was the nearest organized chapter, but it was found that there were no qualified instructors in all of Orange County. With help from the Los Angeles Chapter, a qualified instructor trainer came to our stake and taught four registered nurses the necessary course of study to meet Red Cross qualifications. The course was completed in June 1967. "The following October, the first class was given, and from then to the last of April, four complete six-weeks courses in Home Nursing were taught. Forty-eight of our sisters received Red Cross certificates. The course will be made available each year to our stake as long as it is needed."' 700 1?, Muh eraeene) September 1968 wa. = — * nei Olympus Stake (Utah) Relief Society Board Sponsors April 27, 1968 Members of the Olympus Stake Relief Society board, front row, left to right: Ann Hemming; Metta Christensen; Maxine Porter, First Counselor; lola J. Peterson, President; Ann Larsen, Second Counselor; Elizabeth Varley, Secretary-Treasurer. Back row, left to right: Carroll Smith; Lucille Salisbury; Alfarette Liddle; Mary Ann Anderson; Elizabeth Woodhead; Maxine Silver. Sister Peterson reports: ''Members of the stake board prepared and served a luncheon to 400 guests. The flower centerpieces in the picture are made from dotted Swiss, and were made by members of the board. The dessert favors were small pots Timpanogos Stake (Utah), Pleasant Grove Fourth Ward Honors Visiting Teachers March 4, 1968 Seated, Minnie Hall, honored for having served forty-seven years as a visiting teacher. Former presidents of the Pleasant Grove Fourth Ward Relief Society, left to right in the order in which they served: Faye S. Belliston; Drucilla L. Smith; (Alice T. Judd, absent); Vida F. Conway; Ruth F. Peterson; Zoe A. James, current President. Marval A. Smith, President, Timpanogos Stake Relief Society, reports: '(Minnie Hall was honored for the service she has rendered for forty-seven years as a visiting teacher. She started as a young woman, just after she was married, and has carried the responsibility continuously. She has been an inspiration to all who know her, always going the extra mile. She is pictured with five of the six presidents under whom she served."' 702 Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Elder Roy W. Doxey Lesson 91—The Blessings of the Priesthood (Reading Assignment: D&C 121:26-46.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1968 Southern Hemisphere: May 1969 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman resolves to use her influence in harmony with the great principles of persuasion, gentleness, and mildness, as set forth for the INTRODUCTION From the trials and difficulties of a dungeon jail, the Prophet Joseph Smith wrote an epistle to the saints that has contributed three sections to the Doctrine and Covenants. (Sections 121, 122, 123.) In that part of the letter which makes up Section 121, emphasis is given to the condemnation of the enemies of the Lord's people, including apostates. Then follows a change from these condemnatory statements to the blessings received by the faithful, devoted Latter-day Saint. REVELATION TO ALL Aside from salvation itself as a gift of God, probably the greatest gift bestowed upon man in this life is the gift of the Holy Ghost. Without this gift there is priesthood to exercise. No salvation. (D&C 33:10-13; 76:50-53.) In addition to providing remission of sins with water baptism by an authorized servant of God, the Holy Ghost, among other blessings, is the means whereby revelation is communicated to man. (/bid., 19:31; 2 Nephi 31:17; Moroni 10:5.) By the gift of the Holy Ghost men learn the truth of the revelations. (Moroni 10:3-4.) Among the other blessings, this power imparts knowledge of the plan of salvation to the member of the Church as well as to the prophet. One learns the meaning of passages of scriptures always subject, however, to the interpretation of those empowered to interpret the gospel. Although the prophets, seers, and revelators (First Presidency, Apostles, and Patriarch to the Church) have 703 September 1968 the power to interpret the scriptures, yet they are under the overall power and authority of the President of the Church. (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Address to Seminary and Institute Faculty, July 7, 1954, at Brigham Young University.) No faithful, devoted Latter-day Saint would contend against these authorities on matters of doctrine. With the foregoing limitation, every member of the Church Should receive revelation. The Prophet Joseph Smith said: No man can receive the Holy Ghost without receiving revelations. The Holy Ghost is a_revelator. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts, 2d ed. Rev.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1950, Vol. 6, p. 58 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC\.) In this same vein, the Prophet wrote that in this dispensation there would be revealed know]- edge that had been kept hidden from before the foundation of the world. Furthermore, this period of time was anxiously desired by the ancients, for all things would be made known. (D&C 121:26-32.) Class Discussion In what ways may a member of the Church profit by the gift of revelation? VAIN EFFORTS Men are incapable of preventing the Lord from giving revelation to his people, since man cannot stop the operations of the Holy Ghost. The individual by his unworthy actions may, however, prevent the Holy Spirit from giving him guidance and blessings. (D&C 1:32-33; 130:20-21.) 704 The numerous attempts to thwart the Lord's work in this dispensation have come to nothing. Although individual apostasies among some in high places have made their impact 'upon others, the Church has continued to roll forward. President John Henry Smith said the following about the work of the Lord: Nothing can stay its progress. You and I may fall by the wayside; we may lack the fortitude and faith to endure and fulfill our part; but the work itself has gone on from the day the announcement was made of the administration of heavenly beings, and it will continue in its onward march until every nation, kindred, tongue, and people throughout the universe shall hear the glad tidings of great joy and have the privilege of accepting or rejecting the same in the exercise of the agency our Father has given them. It can not be expected that its mission will be accomplished without Opposition. It must meet adverse elements, it must overcome obstacles, it must secure the ground step by step, without fear and without favor, honoring our Heavenly Father, and maintaining the dignity of that Priesthood God has given to us (Conference Report, October 1905, pp. 13-14.) CALLED AND CHOSEN The Lord has said that many are called, but few are chosen. (D&C 121:34.) His servants have been calling upon the nations to repent. Many have responded to this call, and those who have accepted the gospel of Jesus Christ are chosen, for they are the salt of the earth. They are the savor of mén; that is, they are distinctive among men. (D&C 101:39-40; 1 Peter 2:9.) But all who become members of the kingdom of God do not fulfill the requirements to become chosen. Worthiness of life is the requisite to be chosen. (D&C 105:35-36.) Jesus came into the world that light might lead men to the Father. He is declared to be the Light which lighteth every man that cometh into the world. (D&C 93:2.) Then it follows that those who elect to remain in darkness rather than to receive the light have not become aware of the spiritual influences which may enlighten their lives. THE THINGS OF THIS WORLD In a further explanation of the reason for members of the Church not being chosen, the Lord said that they set their hearts upon the things of this world. (D&C 121:34-35.) When one's heart and mind are upon temporal things only, his spirituality is weakened until the things of God are no longer a part of his daily life. Sometimes this weakening process is hastened when men seek the approbation and praise of men at the cost of principle. When this happens, the bearer of the priesthood forgets that only upon the principles of righteousness is it possible to call upon the powers of heaven. Former spiritual strength is wasted away, and the individual has lost the power to officiate for the Lord and to bless his family with the divine influence which accompanies righteous conduct. (Ibid., verse 36.) What are some of the things of this world which lead to this condition? In the same revelation, we learn that pride, vain ambition, and compulsion, when used to dominate the souls of men, bring a loss of the Spirit of Lesson Department the Lord. (/bid., verse 37.) Inordinate pride prevents a person from being sufficiently humble to acknowledge his weaknesses and faults. A domineering attitude does not allow a husband-wife-child relationship full growth in a home. Compulsion was the plan advocated by Lucifer in the premortal world. It has brought hardship and sorrow from the evil it has created in the lives of the dominated. The following counsel to Emma Smith is applicable to all: And verily I say unto thee that thou shalt lay -aside the things of this world, and seek the things of a better. (D&C 25:10.) Class Discussion Wherein do pride, vain ambition, and compulsion work toward disharmony in the home? INDIVIDUAL SALVATION Each person is saved upon the same principles. No distinction is made between them, for each is a child of God sent to this earth to receive training in the laws of progress. Men are ordained to the priesthood because this authority is the power to preside in the home and in Church capacities. The woman, on the other hand, has the responsibility to bear and rear children. In this capacity she must give her time and talents that the children receive the best training in principles of righteousness. The husband and wife, together, share the responsibility of rearing the children. The mother is entitled, through her faithfulness, to receive the blessings of the priesthood. For this purpose, she is married in the temple where she receives 705 September 1968 the principles of exaltation and, in a real sense, partakes of the greatest blessings of the priesthood that God bestows upon his children. (D&C 124:27-28; 41-42.) PRIESTHOOD PRINCIPLES One of the important purposes for which men exist is to perform service for others. Since all men agreed premortally to sustain the plan of salvation, each one is under covenant to assist in the salvation of all men who also made the same covenant. When men or women use their influence to affect for good the behavior of others, they are fulfilling this obligation. The Lord has said that when bearers of the priesthood attempt to affect the behavior of others, they should do so only upon righteous principles. These are enumerated in the revelation as: persuasion, long-suffering, gentleness and meekness, love unfeigned, kindness, and pure knowledge. (D&C 121:41-42.) Inasmuch as women in the Church seek the same salvation as the men, and the priesthood saves both on the same principles, priesthood principles of conduct must be adhered to by both. "ONLY BY PERSUASION" The priesthood bearer and those who receive the blessings of the priesthood are counseled to use their authority only by persuasion, not by force. One persuades to his own belief or actions by appeal to reason, and not by force. In terms of the gospel plan, free agency is the basis for governing the souls of men. Force was rejected in the pre- 706 mortal councils as being opposed to the laws of God. One may urge but not compel. The mother in the home has the rare opportunity to persuade the children to act in conformity with good principles. She listens to complaints, entreaties, and requests, knowing that at these times correct counsel and instruction may be given. In this process one repeats counsel and also the consequences of disobedience to law. The Prophet Joseph Smith was upbraided by the Lord, on an occasion, for accepting the persuasions of men rather than the counsel of God in the revelations. As a consequence, he was denied the privilege of continuing in the Lord's work until he repented. (D&C 3:5-8.) So also does man forfeit blessings by failing to follow righteous counsel. "BY LONG SUFFERING" The saints are called upon to bear patiently the ridicule, insults, or even injuries which may come because of adherence to the truth. The Savior suffered insult, ridicule, and extreme pain as no man has suffered. (D&C 19:15-17.) His life in this respect is a challenge to all. To teach a child of God that gospel truths are worth taking the insults or tauntings of others, is a noble task. To learn that truth is truth and will ever remain so, and that the finest quality of soul is to stand up for truth, is a major lesson to be learned in life. "BY GENTLENESS AND MEEKNESS'"' Authoritarian methods of instruction, where the parent or teacher attempts to impose his will upon someone else, are contrary to the principles of gentleness or meekness. Harsh methods of discipline are rarely effective. Fear of reprisal or correction rarely brings desirable results, for fear may generate hatred for the disciplinarian. Quiet conversation without a display of anger, becomes the rewarding method of obtaining results. Is it not also wise to be a good listener to receive the full story rather than only one side? The gentle, meek person seeks to understand, to use gospel principles as guides to correct solutions to problems. His concern is to make the _ best judgment in all cases by weighing all evidence and, through prayer, to reach right decisions. "BY LOVE UNFEIGNED AND BY KINDNESS" Love of God is the highest expression of love that is possible. (Deut. 6:4-9.) Can a man love God and not love his fellow man? The apostle John answers this question with a question: " he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen?" (I John 4:20-21.) Members of the Church are bound together in a bond created by the Spirit of the Lord. Of all people, their administrations should be characterized by love. This love must be unfeigned; that is sincere, genuine, not pretended. "PURE KNOWLEDGE" The dictionary defines "pure" as faultless, perfect, true, and blameless. Pure knowledge, as Lesson Department used in the revelation, includes all of these adjectives. The knowledge that saves is found in the gospel of Jesus Christ— it is true knowledge. The laws of righteousness are perfect, blameless, and faultless. In view of this information, for what kind of knowledge should the Latter-day Saint seek? Without gospel knowledge, it is impossible to be saved, and it is impossible to assist in the salvation of others. What has already been given in this lesson about the virtues which should govern one's actions in his relationship with others, indicates the need to follow the Lord's counsel. If true knowledge is to guide our actions, then what principle is given for our guidance after we have reprimanded a son or daughter, or others? The answer is: Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; That he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death. (D&C 121:43-44.) If one desires to be "moved upon by the Holy Ghost," it is necessary that his life conform to "pure knowledge.' Would the Holy Ghost inspire and direct the father or mother who did not try to use the principles by which the priesthood operates? (Moroni 8:25-26.) If we are faithful in bestowing love toward our own and others, this promise is given: Let thy bowels also be full of charity towards all men, and to the household of faith, and let virtue garnish thy thoughts unceasingly; then shall thy confidence wax strong in the presence 707 September 1968 of God; and the doctrine of the priesthood shall distil upon thy soul as the dews from heaven. The Holy Ghost shall be thy constant companion, and thy scepter an unchanging scepter of righteousness and truth; and thy dominion shall be an everlasting dominion, and without compulsory means it shall flow unto thee forever and ever. (D&C 121:45-46.) CONCLUSION The Lord promises through his ancient and modern prophets that revelation would be abundant in the last days and that the members of his Church would enjoy its benefits. Men who would endeavor to stop his work would come to naught. Although those who would affiliate with his church would be the salt of the earth, all would not be chosen, primarily because their desires would be upon the things of this world. Some significant promises were given to the priesthood, an everlasting dominion with the blessings of the Holy Ghost. The principles necessary to function in the priesthood were qualities of soul, as important for the women of the Church as well as for the priesthood. In training children, instructing youth, and in the numerous relationships which exist among members of the Church and others, counsel was given whereby those relationships would be successful. Among these principles of righteousness were: persuasion, long-suffering, gentleness and meekness, love unfeigned, kindness, and pure knowledge. If these qualities abound when instruction, reprimands, and counsel are given, the Holy Ghost will lead, guide, and direct into meaningful relationships. 708 FAITH You say my path has ended—it has just begun, Winding through many woods, seeing many changes, The spring of my growing has bubbled into memories; Summer of my understanding leafed into knowledge, Autumn of evaluation turned leaf into wisdom. When the winter of truth descended like a cold dusk, You say it vanquished my woodland; It chased the leaf and froze the spring. Would a mustard seed cease to believe and grow? Would a song sparrow forget to nest and sing? My path has no endings, only branching beginnings. —Bonnie S. Gudmundson VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 3—Each Person Needs to Feel Accepted Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1968 Southern Hemisphere: May 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show that acceptance encourages growth. It is easy to thrill with borrowed courage as we identify with the shepherd leaving the comfort of the fold to search the hot, scorching desert for the strayed. We rejoice that Jesus saw good in the sinner and offered the water that quencheth all thirst to the oft married woman then living with a man not her husband. We are gladdened by the acceptance of the _ erstwhile wastrel, the prodigal son by his father. We are delighted that Jesus received little children when his disciples "rebuked those that brought them." (Mark 10:13.) We are grateful that Jesus would dine with publican and sinner. But what would happen if Jesus were our neighbor—dining with sinners, seeking out those who had left the Church, visiting with a woman whose reputation was besmirched, and accepting back, with love, the family "black sheep'? Do such in need of help dwell on our street? Can we, as Jesus, keep our own standards yet receive into our hearts and lives those whose behavior is different and help them gradually to find a better way? How can we become the greatest friend (not necessarily the most intimate) of both non-Latter-day Saint and member? One wintry afternoon, a nonmember woman said to me, "The Mormons at this university have much to say to one another, but they do not include me in their visiting. I've spent three lonely years on this campus. I can't wait until I'm back home and some Mormon missionary calls on me. Will I give it to him. The Mormons don't practice what they preach." Do we send our missionaries at great expense to the far corners of the earth and fail to preach the gospel through | our lives at home? Also, how can we help returned missionaries and their families be gracious to visiting mission members? One boy's mother constantly told him he was the ugliest boy on earth. A younger son had an older brother held up to him as better and more capable. An anxious mother continually criticized her daughter, rarely praised her. A teacher openly favored her pleasant pupils while disapproving of the less capable and unruly. 709 September 1968 "The noblest aim in life is to strive to live to make other lives better and happier," said President David O. McKay. (Pathways to Happiness, Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, Inc., p. 280.) To encourage, to help achieve, praise whenever possible, teach how to learn from failure, to give to each child the certainty that he is a worthwhile, loved, and valued child of his parents and of God, to accept others with their limitations, as people such as are we, who are not yet perfect but desire to be, is to follow this advice of our prophet. Of children and the non-Mormon, especially, we should be thoughtful and considerate. None should be called bad, although sometimes we may and should discuss that which is being done as not praiseworthy. By loving and accepting all our neighbors as worthwhile, we will help them and us grow toward God. Acceptance is the fertile soil in which growth takes place. HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 3—Priceless Treasures Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1968 Southern Hemisphere: April 1969 OBJECTIVE: To point out the joy, satisfaction, and historical value of a continuous INTRODUCTION Instinctive in all of us, whether we are aware of it or not, is the desire to preserve for our posterity the knowledge and assurance of our having lived. Coupled with this natural inclination is the impulse to share with our associates, particularly our loved ones, our moments of happiness, our accomplishments, our _ aspirations, and our hopes. Were this not so, no books would have been written, no songs would have been sung, and no pictures would have been painted. 710 compilation of significant family events. The Latter-day Saints are a record-keeping people, for to keep records is a part of their great heritage from The Book of Mormon, as well as from the Bible. Our interest in genealogy bears ample evidence of this fact. In his infinite wisdom, the Lord has commanded from time to time, as recorded in the Book of Mormon, the keeping of records of all that has transpired. The Relief Society Magazine for January 1967 contains the homemaking discussion, "Keeping Records," which emphasizes the value and importance of keeping various kinds of home-management records. We recommend a review of this particular discussion. However, the purpose of our current discussion is to make us aware of the joy and satisfaction, as well as the historical values, to be gained from the compilation of significant family events and to indicate various methods which can be employed in the making of such records. HOW SHALL WE COMPILE OUR FAMILY RECORDS? Some months ago, in answer to a request for information relative to this subject, one of our lovely Relief Society sisters, who is a mother of nine children, contributed several ideas which should prove helpful. To begin with, she says, "Without counting my husband, my children, the gospel, etc.—of all the lovely wordly things I possess, the ones I cherish far above all others are the family books I have kept since our marriage twenty-three years ago. I have often told baby-sitters that if the house caught on fire, by all means to get the children out first, but if there was any time at all—to get our family records out next." She says further, "I have these books custom-made at a_ bookbinding company so that they are all the same size." Briefly, this is what these books are comprised of: 1. Our Wedding Book 2. Our Life Together Books a. Baby pictures and announce. Ments b. Yearly family pictures c. Homes we have lived in Lesson Department Schools our children attend Wards where we have had our recommends High school graduations Armed services Missions College graduations Family weddings Grandchildren Church activities Vacations and trips Business ventures Other family activities 3. Children's Record Books (One for each child) es OS 3->z7 70> Sister Badger says, "I believe that keeping a book for each child is one way of making a child feel that he is an individual with talents, abilities, and achievements of his own. Each little accomplishment is duly recorded. There is nothing my children enjoy more than getting their books out and looking through them or showing them to a friend." Some of the things recorded in these books are: a. A newspaper the day of the child's birth (This tells so much—the weather, clothing styles, world and local news, hair styles, movies, food prices, etc.) b. Personal firsts (first tooth, haircut, day of school, etc.) c. Significant events (Church activities, parties, hikes, accidents, etc.) Friends Pets Schools and teachers Personal accomplishments Jobs 4. Family Home Evening Book. Each page includes a program of events, chairman, song, prayer, business, scripture, program, refreshments, and any special activities which might be included. 5. Photograph Album. ''Always have your camera loaded."' This album contains treasured pictures, mostly unplanned, on-the-spot snapshots which Tm me 711 September 1968 become an important part of the family record. It also contains family photographs taken from time to time. 6. Scrapbook. This contains cards children have made for Mother's Day, Father's Day, birthdays, valentines, and Christmas. It contains the art work of children mounted on colored construction paper with child's name and age. It contains, also, original compositions—stories, poems, talks, special letters, etc. 7. Family Treasures. Plastic-covered pages are used to keep and preserve family treasures such as precious letters (John Taylor, Brigham Young), an old clipping announcing Lincoln's death and the other important events which may be among the family's possessions. CONCLUSION Every family may not want to carry out such an extensive record program, but each can work out its own method according to the needs and desires of its members. The important thing is that every family realize the joy and satisfaction which can come to them through the preservation of the significant things which have made their own family what it ls. SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 3—Lighting the Way: Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life From the Writings and. Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1968 Southern Hemisphere: May 1969 OBJECTIVE: To emphasize that during his ministry the Savior gave guidance on the INTRODUCTION In the foreword of Behold the Lamb of God written by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Elder Harold B. Lee speaks of President Clark's humble faith and of his scholarly study of the life of the Savior: Among the great scholars of our day was President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. During the earlier mature years of his life, he lived away from the organized units of the Church, in Washington, D. C., and 712 basic aspects of human relationships. Later in Mexico, associated with the State Department of the United States, and then with the diplomatic service. During these years, the Sabbath Day was observed by him just as sacredly as though he were in full attendance at Church meetings and Church activities. He engaged himself on the Sabbath, when there were very often no other activities available, in the study of the life and teachings of Jesus of Nazareth, the Savior of the world. He procured, over these years, an excellent library on the life of the Master and with painstaking care, set about to work out a "harmony" of the Four Gospels and Third Nephi of the Book of Mormon, to which he referred as the "Fifth Gospel." In this volume under the meaningful title, Behold the Lamb of God, the family and intimate friends of President Clark have brought together some of the sermons and writings of this noble son of God who loved "The Lamb of God'' about whom he had studied so deeply. (Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1962.) It is therefore fitting that this lesson on the ministry of the Savior be based on the lessons written by President Clark. Because the lesson will be given in December (Northern Hemisphere) some application to the annual Christmas observance of the birth of Jesus will be considered. MISSION OF THE SAVIOR Although we may not understand fully the atoning sacrifice of Jesus Christ, both the Bible and The Book of Mormon tell us much about his position in the plan of salvation. Truth revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith has added to this knowledge. We can, therefore, understand the general purposes of the mission of Jesus of Nazareth as we study the scriptural record of his life and ministry. Perhaps we may rightly say that the mission of Jesus embraced two significantly major objectives: 1. To redeem mankind from mortal death. Through the voluntary sacrifice of his life, he fulfilled his foreordained mission of being Christ, the Redeemer. This atonement granted immortality to all men. No one but he could make the atoning sacrifice. As far as we know, we had no active role in this part of the redemption. Lesson Department 2. To teach the principles of his gospel that men might know how to live in order to attain eternal life in the presence of the Father. Having been given the opportunity to live and progress beyond mortal life, men needed to know how to make full use of that great blessing. In the teaching of gospel principles, many human relationships are involved, for (a) they concern our relationship to the Savior— whether or not we accept him as the Christ, Creator, and Redeemer; (b) they concern our willingness to accept and obey his commandments; (c) because of our relationship to the Savior, our relationships to one another in our everyday lives are affected. THE TESTIMONY OF HIS WORD AND WORK After Jesus returned from the forty days in the wilderness, and following the, temptation of Satan until the final days before the crucifixion, he taught the principles of his gospel. He taught individuals in small and large groups, even great multitudes, on the Mount, at the seashore, on the plain, and in the precincts of the temple. He taught his disciples continuously, unfolding the divine principles, step by step, as fast as his listeners could understand. One of the truths which Jesus needed to teach the people of his day was that he, born of Mary of Nazareth, is the Only Begotten of the Father and is, in reality, both Creator and Redeemer of the world. To establish his identity as the long-looked for Savior was basic to his ministry among men. 713 September 1968 Throughout his ministry, Jesus repeatedly stated that he was the Son of God; that he did what he had seen his Father do, and. That he taught only that which his divine Father had commanded him to teach. Added to his own statements relative to his divine mission, were the verifying words of the Father as uttered at the time of Jesus' baptism by John in the river Jordan. "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased (Matt. 17:5) are the direct words of the Father at that time. His teaching objective, however, was not an easy one to achieve, for Jesus had _ lived among his countrymen since the manger birth, and had worked in the carpenter shop of his recognized father Joseph. He was known by many as a carpenter and as the carpenter's son. Moreover, the Jews had been steeped in the Mosaic Law, and it was apparently difficult for them to see beyond the ritualistic worship of centuries. It was not easy to accept the gospel of love that replaced the Mosaic "eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth." Jesus said:... Whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also. And if any man will sue thee at the law, and take away thy coat, let him have thy cloke also. (Matt. 5:39-40.) President Clark states that Jesus "had to break down, to fulfil, as he told us, the Law of Moses. If you want to know how far he had to go from the laws which had been given to ancient Israel, read the Sermon on the Mount, read the Sermon on the Plain, read the sermon at 714 the Second Passover, and see how he had to drive and drive and drive for the new law. And so with thousands of other things. Those documents to which I have referred, and a few others, are the greatest revolutionary documents in the whole histery of the world. They mark the turning away from, the fulfilment of, the Mosaic Law and the introduction and operation of the law of the Gospel he restored. (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Behold the Lamb of God, p. 23.) This then, is a simplified and brief overall picture of the difficult task of teaching the gospel in the Savior's time. Well known is the fact that some of those who listened to the words of Jesus, who witnessed and marvelled at his works, believed. Their family and friend relationships were undoubtedly influenced for good by their belief. In the miracles that brought health to the sick, sight to the blind, a return of breath to the dead, and other miraculous works, they recognized an inherent divinity which gave Jesus control over even the elements on land and sea. Others turned deaf ears to the gospel teachings. The unbeheving and rebellious responded with the persecution that finalized in the crucifixion. AS THEN, SO NOW Since the gospel of Christ is for all individuals who are born into this life, surely, then, its teachings are important today as in other periods of the world's history. As we study the life and ministry of the Savior, we observe the skill with which he taught, using the commonplace and familiar to illustrate the eternal truths. We, also, observe his divine insight into human nature—the strengths and the weaknesses of individuals. And we observe that he gave guidance on the major aspects of human relationships. How free from complicating problems life would be if all of those who heard his voice had believed, and all who read his words would accept, would learn, and would apply. We read the teachings of the Savior in both ancient and modern scripture. But this reading is of limited value unless we relate the teachings to ourselves, our problems, and our relationships with others. Class Involvement Discuss why the following words suggest human relationships which are as vitally important today as when used anciently: peacemaker, contrite heart (Book of Mormon), thanks, love, forgiveness. (Suggest others, if desired.) Lesson time and space allow consideration of only a few of these gospel teachings. Gospel Teachings Scripture 1. Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God. (Matt. 5:9.) Scripture 2. And as he entered into a certain village, there met him ten men that were lepers, which stood afar off: And they lifted up their voices, and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go shew yourselves unto the priests. And iit came to pass, that, as they went, they were cleansed. And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified God, And fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks: and he Lesson Department was a Samaritan. And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed? But where are the nine? (Luke 17:12-17.) Question How may this senpture, which is concerned with gratitude and the lack of it, be a guide (a) in home situations? (b) in the matter of gift-giving at Christmas time? Scripture 3. But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you. (Matt. 5:44.) Question (a) What does this difficult commandment mean to me as a wife? As a neighbor? (b) What do I do if a friend despitefully uses me? Discuss. Three simple, commonplace problem-situations follow. Relate them to the foregoing gospel guidance scriptures: Woman A—My neighbor's son accidently, but carelessly, broke a_ cherished piece of my porcelain. He retrieved the fragments, promising me, and, I suppose himself, that he would be more careful in the future. Still, I don't feel right about it. Woman B—My sister always sends me the nicest gifts. Sometimes, I get busy and wait a long time before answering. Sometimes, I just don't get around to thanking her at all. She ought to know that I appreciate them. But, it just makes her furious. Woman C—Why should | love that person? She never does anything for me. In fact, I think she is quite critical of the things I do. She certainly is not very friendly. Other situations may be suggested. Class Discussion Discuss how the _ foregoing 715 September 1968 gospel teachings might better these human relationship problems. NOW AT CHRISTMAS TIME Christmas is a time for giving, for sharing, for loving. Our hearts are warmed and our sympathies increased, at this season of the year. Yet, not all who observe the tradition of Christmas celebration have the same attitude toward this annual event. In the following monologue, a thoughtful woman expresses her particular feeling as to the celebration of Christmas. We listen. Woman speaking: Christmas to me this year means something different from what it has meant before. Perhaps it is because I have been reading the scriptures and have given more thought to the message that should be central to our celebration. Significant as is the manger birth, to me the Christmas message should include more than a new star and singing of the heavenly choir. It should include the years of Christ's ministry lighting the way for us to follow, his patience and his effort in trying to free men's minds from bigotry and tradition, to open their hearts that the gospel truths might enter. Therefore, Christmas to me, must include a remembrance of his love and understanding which are beyond our human comprehension, for they offer, even in the hour of crucifixion, forgiveness to even those who were crucifying him. Remembering certain scriptures, I think of how being a peacemaker applies to me; of how I should forgive others, knowing how much I, too, need to be forgiven. I promise myself to put forth every effort to love those who may be unkind or even critical of me. And I wonder if I am really grateful for my blessings—the greatest of which is the gospel of Jesus Christ. I think of his entire mission and of his sacrifice for all men, erring though they be. I share the wonder of such love with Charles Gabriel who wrote these words: 716 r. New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates Effective June 1, 1968 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _..55 Zone5 _~__ _.75 Zone3 ____-_.60 Zone6 ____-.85 Zone4 ___._-65 Zone7 _~__.-..95 Zone8_~ _ _ _ _1.05 a DESERET [REws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 fotal electric living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. | MESA VERDE & CARLSBAD CAVERNS TOUR September 21-28 HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK TOUR October 13-27 ROSE PARADE TOURS December 26-January 2 Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Beiley MUSIC COMPANY '*Singing Mothers"' '""Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos Instruments And Supplies \ Cheneper. Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. MOVED -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 Lesson Department I stand all amazed at the love Jesus offers me, Confused at the grace that so fully he proffers me; I tremble to know that for me he was crucified, That for me a sinner, he suffered, he bled and died. I marvel that he would descend from his throne divine To rescue a soul so rebellious and proud as mine; That he should extend his great love unto such as I, Sufficient to own, to redeem, and to justify. I think of his hands pierced and bleeding to pay the debt! Such mercy, such love, and devotion can I forget? No, no, I will praise and adore at the mercy seat, Until at the glorified throne I kneel at his feet. Oh, it is wonderful that he should care for me, Enough to die for me! Oh, it is wonderful, wonderful to me! IN CONCLUSION Concluding this December lesson, we quote from a Christmas message of President Clark. Brothers and _ sisters, all, brothers and sisters of our Elder Brother, Jesus, the Christ: Into what a world of meaning and relationship reaching back into the eternities, and reaching forward into the eternities to come, does that statement of fact which has been revealed to us, take us. At the Christmas season of the year, the air, the churches will be filled with expressions of adoration, of reverence, and of worship. It is for us to see that in the days and the months and the years to come these do not become, as I fear sometimes they do in the world, mere hollow memories, hollow reverence, hollow worship, as we go about our daily tasks. We must live with these eternal facts and with the eternal relationship to which I have already referred. From that lowly cottage on the outskirts of Jerusalem under the circum- 717 September 1968 stances which the Holy Writ tells us about, came him who was to be and was the Savior of the world. (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Behold the Lamb of God, Deseret Book Company: Salt Lake City, 1962, p. 97.) For Home-doing Make the ministry of the Savior, as well as the advent of his birth, a living part of Christmas in your home this Christmas time. CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family. No lesson is planned for December in this department, due to the holiday season. All Transportation Good Hotels—Fine Food & Safe Water 12 Meals Famous Railway in the sky Entertainment—Bull Fights, Folklorico Ballet, Travel Agency FIESTA TOURS MEXICO Personally Escorted Only $359 from Provo, Utah—March 7 to 23, 1969 Enjoy Summer Sun in Fabulous Acapulco * Quaint Taxco * Majestic Mexico City * Beautiful Guadalajara Pueblo * Mazatlan and other cities Included: Holiday on Skis, Ocean Cruise, Famous High Divers, Xochimilcho, Dancing, etc., Deep Sea Fishing (optional) 13 Archeological Zones—Pyramids, Temple of Quetzalcoatl, Tula, Zochicalco, etc. ERMA & ARNOLD WHITE — YOUR ''TRAV-A-LEADERS"' Specializing in Mexican Tours Write: 1795 East 3170 South © Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 © Phone: 484-9752 718 Something wonperruL happens when you place a jar of your very own preserves into the hands of a friend or onto the table of those you live for. Nobody knows it better than today's creative young home-maker. And nobody knows this better than Ball: your skill and loving care deserve two things the perfect protection of self-sealing Ball "Dome" Lids (the ones with the nice, clean WHITE enamel lining) and the decorative beauty of Ball's newest design, "Sculptured Glass."' Ask your grocer. You'll love it! HV AAAORARSRSREDH THN AANA 719 Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 100 Mrs. Bella Cowley Gibson Price, Utah 98 Mrs. Matilda Sandburg Andrus Las Vegas, Nevada Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Lindsay Bennion Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Alice Paxman McCune Nephi, Utah Mrs. Emily Chadwick Zaugg Clearfield, Utah 97 96 95 Mrs. Nora Sheffield Cardston, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Josephine Broberg Monson Salt Lake City, Utah Smithfield, Utah Mrs. Laura Christensen Watkins Salt Lake City, Utah 94 93 Cardston, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Ellery Berrett Brown North Ogden, Utah Mrs. Katie Meikle Ewing Smithfield, Utah Mrs. Mary Almond Hansen Logan, Utah 720 Mrs. Anna Barfuss Rindlisbacher Dutson Mrs. Bertha Bell Weaver Harrod Buck 92 91 90 Mrs. Martha Annice Hepworth Hayward American Fork, Utah Mrs. Rosa Belle Warner Lawson Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Bertha Rydel Wagner Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Stalder Binggeli Logan, Utah Mrs. Mary Adelaide Snow Killpack Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Bertha Elizabeth Emanuelsen Bergsjo Logan, Utah Mrs. Etta Langstaff Miller Shelley, Idaho Mrs. Clara Munk Anderson Manti, Utah Mrs. Olene Hansen Carlson Manti, Utah Mrs. Lydia Ethal Brown Ottley Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Esther Delcina Wilson Lewis Mesa, Arizona Mrs. Grace Bridges Lewis Montpelier, Idaho Mrs. Agnes Chipp Myers Yucca Valley, California Mrs. Emma Tillack Ovard Coaldale, Alberta, Canada New! Volume IV by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Here is the newest volume in the Out of the Best Books series! Volume IV is the Relief Society cultural refine ment course for 1968-69 and is geared to the theme: "The World Around Us." Like previous volumes, this book includes literature from the pens of the greatest authors. This volume will make a fine addition to any home library It will be appreciated and enjoyed by all the family. Order now for about August 28th delivery. $2.60 Surface mail paid anywhere in the world! This packet of visual aids and pictures is designed to go with the 1968-69 Relief Society spiritual living lessons $1.25 T Deseret Book | DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 COM PANY i H H 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL x —" Main, Orange, California SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA Please send items circled ] 2 Enclosed is a check/money order for the full amount of purchase, including 342% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake City, or 5% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange. Or, charge my established account Total $ 00.0 ccc ec ence nen ene tees been tenet eee ents eel Address 00 cece, Sn ee | Sa State Zip SEND FOR DETAILS OF A DESERET BOOK CHARGE ACCOUNT [} (check here) Sept. AS. 68 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Beneficial Life can help you build your future Insurance is the stuff that dreams are made of. Beneficial Life mortgages help make home ownership a reality for thousands of eager young families. A Beneficial Life insurance policy makes it possible for a famly to retire its mortBENEFICIAL LIFE gage early, should the need arise. Beneficial Life helps buy and Srsurance protect the ownership of that new home. Virgil H. Smith, Pres. | Magazine 
