OCTOBER 1968 Ay © y @) O Q p Sy HOLD AUTUMN There is a pause in October A sigh as though earth breathes One golden breath of forever Into the gathering sky. The oak turns And there is a magnificent heather Turned sun... And all becomes one Late testimony Of beauty Before death takes what seems like Its one solemn duty... The toll of winter. Above all the harvested grains And the flash of red in the hills That touch heaven, There is that one last sigh That is seven Times seven springs driven. The magnificent all-consuming pulse For life hard-put-out. The flame Before the smoke Has risen. —Marilyn McMeen Miller The Cover: §§ Brown and Gold in Mill Creek Canyon, Utah Transparency by Claire W. Noall Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: # Poplars in the Wasatch Mountains, Utah Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: [ij Dick Scopes Illustrations: Hi Mary Scopes 721 

The Relief SOCICTY Magazine Volume 55 October 1968 Number 10 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 724 For All Eternity If Not for Time Harold B. Lee 728 A Pleasant Journey Pauline J. Jensen 731 Why Archaeology at Nauvoo? Virginia S. Harrington 738 Recipe For Family Home Evening Lillian Y. Bradshaw Fiction 749 The Anniversary Kathleen Peace Gregory 761 If Spring Be Late—Chapter 7 Mabel Harmer General Features 722 From Near and Far 743 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 744 _ ~—s Editorial—The Inspiration That Guides Us Louise W. Madsen 746 \|In Memoriam—Achsa Eggertsen Paxman 747 Announcement of Relief Society Song Contest 769 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 800 _ _— Birthday Congratulations The Home—lInside and Out 754 Anna Conquest—Nimble Fingers Perform With the Needle 756 A recipe for Tomorrow Helen Cazier Norton 758 A Special Breakfast Marva D. Beck 760 ~=— Exchanging Quilt Patterns Elaine Kimball Jones 760 Sewing Carol Hood Blackhurst Lesson Department (Lessons for: Northern Hemisphere: January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June, 1969) 778 = Spiritual Living—Adversity Roy W. Doxey 784 Visiting Teacher Message—We Are to Be Compassionate Toward the Afflicted Alice Colton Smith 785 | Homemaking—Let's Be More Courteous Celestia J. Taylor 787 ~— Social Relations—The Latter-day Saint Woman in Today's World Alberta H. Christensen 792 ~=Cultural Refinement—The Satisfaction of Growth Robert K. Thomas Poetry 721 Hold Autumn Marilyn McMeen Miller Portrait, Alice Morrey Bailey 730; Windsong Speaks, Gladys. Hesser Burnham 746; The Golden Circlet, Betty G. Spencer 753; Good Neighbor, Ruth G. Rothe 755; English Garden, Bernice Ames 757; Nostaligia, Margaret Read 759; To Everything There Is a Season, Alice Brady Myers 760; Recompense, Dorothy J. Roberts 768; A Class Leader's Greeting, Vilatea R. McAllister 777; Suddenly Aware, Iris W. Schow 783. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be sup- ' plied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. _ Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

723 A. Something of a text for the subject heading of this brief writing at the request of the Relief Society General Presidency, I relate two actual life stories which could be repeated many times among members of the Church today. The first: As a recently returned missionary, I was aspeaker at the funeral services for a devoted, faithful former missionary 724 See For All Eterni Elder Harold B. Lee whom I had known as a most unselfish, dedicated, and effective teacher and exponent of right principles one could ever know. She died of an incurable infectious disease. As her death drew near, she had outlined in detail the memorial services which would be held following her passing. Therefore, all of those participating in that sacred service were keenly conscious, as was I, that each had been chosen because he represented a different phase in her all-too-short life by which she would have her family, loved ones, and intimate friends remember her. My humble offering was to remember her years as a missionary for the Church. Just before she left her home, where she had served as a teacher in the secondary schools following her graduation from the Brigham Young University, a patriarch had given her a remarkable patriarchal blessing. All the specific blessings promised had already been realized excepting one, and the absence of the fulfillment of that one troubled me because, according to my measure, no earthly human could have lived a more nearly Christlike life than had she. Why then had this last of The Council of the Twelve promised blessing been denied her? The blessing from the Lord through this' patriarch, had promised her that she would become a mother in Israel. She had never married, therefore she, in her mortal life, had not been privileged to become a mother. I spoke of this in the services and posed my _ unanswered question, "Why?" The second: A _ distraught father and mother had sought an interview to see if some light and understanding could be given them to ease their aching hearts and to bolster their faith. They had just received that ominous and tersely worded telegram from the military informing them of the tragic death of their young son. Just home from a mission for the Church, he had been inducted into military service. Before leaving, he, too, had received a patriarchal blessing in which he was promised that he would have a posterity of sons and daughters. Had the patriarch's words been inspired? Why did this promise fail since, to their certain knowledge, their son had lived worthy of every blessing promised to the faithful who "live unto the Lord''? Following my remarks in the f Not For linc == aes Se Saaeeee first instance, the stake patriarch and former stake president was the concluding speaker. He declared two vital principles well documented in the scriptures. He explained the doctrine that "life" did not begin with mortal birth and does not end with mortal death. When a patriarch pronounces an inspired blessing, such a blessing encompasses the whole of life, not just the phase we call mortality. "If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable" (1 Cor. 15:19), the apostle Paul had written. Failing to understand this great truth, we are "miserable" and sometimes our faith is challenged. With faith that "looks" beyond the grave, and trusting in the Divine Providence to bring all things in their proper perspective in due time, we have hope and our fears are calmed. "Faith is not to have a perfect knowledge of things;" declared the Prophet Alma, "therefore if ye have faith, ye hope for things which are not seen, which are true." (Alma 38:21.) This faithful sister, the patriarch explained, although not privileged to bear children in mortality, may through sacred ordi- October 1968 nances in holy temples on earth, in the Lord's own time, be sealed to a worthy husband which sealing, by divine authority, if acceptable to both, could in the world beyond this permit a holy union in eternal wedlock, with the promise of posterity beyond the grave. It was concerning eternal increase that the Lord, in a revelation, declared to those entering into this covenant of marriage and were faithful to the end, that they would have an "exaltation and glory in all things, as hath been sealed upon their heads, which glory shall be a fulness and a continuation of the seeds forever and ever." (D&C 132:19.) As though to further clarify this revelation, the Prophet Joseph Smith explained: "But those who are married by the power and authority of the priesthood in this life, and continue without committing the sin against the Holy Ghost, will continue to increase and have children in the celestial glory." (DHC, V, p. 391.) As the apostle Peter explained, following the Master's resurrection and as a result of the visitation of the risen Lord to the world of departed spirits, the Master preached to them "that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit." (1 Peter 4:6.) Explained simply: this means that to those worthy beyond this life who accept of the vicarious work performed by authority in the Lord's temples, such ordinances performed for those who have passed on are as efficacious as though they were living. Were this not so, as the Lord explained to Peter, to whom the keys of the kingdom were given in the meridian of times, the "gates of hell" would have prevailed against the Church of Jesus Christ. Without this vicarious work, instituted in behalf of the faithful who "die in the Lord," the full mission of the Master's atoning sacrifice would not have been extended to such as those illustrated in the instances cited above and many similar which could be cited. You loved ones of that faithful missionary sister, look forward to that glorious day for the promise of motherhood, and you parents of the faithful son who was promised a_ posterity, do not despair. In the Lord's own way and in his own time, he will bring all things right in his own way. Thanks be to God! Sometime ago I had occasion to write some things to the many faithful sisters who not as yet or may not in mortal life have women's. Greatest expectations fulfilled. It is appropriate to 726 some modifications, a portion I have said heretofore: "You young women advancing IN years who have not yet ac. Cepted a Proposal of Matlriage, if you make yourselves worthy You May recall the Incident When the Prophet Joseph Smith For Alf Eternity if Not For Time him: "A]] who have died without a knowledge of this Gospel, who would have received had been Permitted to tarry, shal] be heirs of the celestia] kingdom for I, the L It is significant to me that the Statistics of the after year, reveal an almost equal number of males 727 Pleasant UIE Pauline J. Jensen ® I look out of the window at the snow that falls effortlessly, making, as in James Russell Lowell's poem, "All silence and all glisten." Since before Christmas it has come, a bit each day, until the tall drifts are at waist level, with mountains where the wind has whipped it to peaks. The calendar announces that it is nearly spring, but here in our Northland, there is little to indicate that soft breezes and a warm sun are approaching. A restlessness siezes me, and I think of all the beautiful countries that are now sun-drenched and caressed by gentle winds. I long to be there on one of those lovely beaches, watching the ebb and flow of tide and hearing the cries of the gulls. But I really don't have to go outside my four walls to be in some of those places. My generous teacher-daughter, worldtraveled, has brought those countries to me. I walk across the room and lightly tap the cowbells that hang in the archway. I am in Switzerland, from where they 728 came. I see the curving hills, the pastures, and hear the music from the bells of the patient cows grazing on the green. It is springtime, and the meadows bloom with delicate flowers, and the air is scented with pine. I take a deep breath, then turn and lift the doll music box, and marvel at its perfection. I wind it and soon the strains of "Silent Night" take me to a small Swiss village and a church glowing with lights against the winter darkness. Then the music slows and comes to a lingering end. I leave Switzerland, and my mind travels quickly to China, as I gaze upon an exquisite bit of ceramic on the mantel. The detail is meticulous—the face of the old man lined with the cares of the day; his wife beside him, her hand on his shoulder, her anxious eyes upon him. Is she worried that he had toiled so long? The question unanswered, I go to the figurines of the rural area of that vast land, and see the peasants as they labor in the rice paddies. I hear their staccato cries to one another. I see the children nearby, their little figures bundled against the chill of spring. From a drawer I take the jewelry that came from Hong Kong. As I touch the uneven, but oh, so beautiful designs, I see the woman who made it, bent to her tasks, gnarled fingers fashioning a delicate tracery, adorned with colorful stones. It is an easy trip from China to Japan. My eyessearch the painted blossoms on the four seasons screen. The delicate beige and black against the brown brocaded matting accent the skill and give appreciation of the outstanding artistic endowments of the people of that lovely land—Japan. I pick up a lovely bowl of Wedgwood and run my fingers over its raised design. I am now in England. I stand, transfixed, before the Changing of the Guard. My heart thrills to the bongs from Big Ben. My mind exults as I tread the halls of Westminster. All that I have read of it comes crowding in and fills me with awe. I walk reverently through the Poet's Corner, and say a word of thanks that so many of the "syeats" are here memorialized in time. I walk along the Avon. I see A Pleasant Journey Stratford, and villages with flowers in every tiny yard. | find myself humming 4 small tune, "There'll always be an England." Now my eyes fall on the clean lines of the black candelabrum on the table. Its pure white tapers stand tall, and remind me of the cleanliness of Copenhagen, from where the tapers came. I see its gay and carnival-like atmosphere, and drink deeply of the fresh salt-breeze. I glance up at the plaque on the wall—crest of my husband's family. I know its history by heart. I feel a thrill of pride that in his veins runs the blood of such 4 fine and sturdy people. The graceful hand-carved bird beside the low bowl of flowers transports me to India. I feel the noonday heat, and try not 729 October 1968 to think of the hungry little children. Instead, I turn to the pictures of the dancing girls, and study them. The art is strange, and I try to define its meaning. Is there symbolism that I have missed? I move quickly to the Himalayas and revel in the beauty of their lofty, snow-clad peaks. Then I leave India, for who am I to probe the mystery she holds within her? There is much in my snowsurrounded home to remind me of Germany. I gently lift a white porcelain angel from the "Angel Band." How delicate! How fine the detail! This is my favorite gift—this and the music box that so entrances my small grandchild. The Hummel figures on the front, the beautiful Brahms Lullaby that comes when it is wound, eternally fascinate the two of us. It is easy to journey through Germany, to gaze in wonder at the Ludwigian castles, to float leisurely down the Rhine—to drink in all the beauty that is Germany. Reluctantly, I leave the Rhineland and fly back to the Philippines. The satin-smooth carving from there pleases my touch. There is perfection in the fat ox with its carefully detailed horns, the native boy, arm raised with spear in hand. I see the lush land thick with green and fragrant plants. My throat fills at the sight of the blue, almost indigo, Pacific. It is so very real to me, one who has never seen the foam of any ocean. I look outside; the snow still falls. The clock reminds me of other duties. I sigh, for I could well travel on to many countries, through the gifts that fill my house. I feel a surge of gratitude for _the dear young daughter whose thoughtfulness has made this journey possible. I think of how each gift has lured me into study of the place from whence it came. I think of all the information I have gleaned through doing this. I say a soft thank you to you, my child, and add another to all those people whose skill and struggle, whose toil and effort have made my journey one of joy. PORTRAIT Wrong is well defined to her as the thin Line of her mouth. She cannot fathom sin Nor tolerate the sinner. She should have been there when his hand Bent to write the message in the sand. 730 —Alice Morrey Bailey Why Archaeology At NAUVOO? Virginia S. Harrington* Assistant Archaeologist, Nauvoo Restoration, Inc. [Address given at the annual picnic of the Nauvoo Historical Society at the Nauvoo State Park, July 16, 1968] # When I chose the topic that I am to use this evening, I hoped that it would make you wonder, or think a bit. You have been aware, each summer, of the work going on, the dirt being moved, the trowels and whisk brooms being meticulously wielded, but do you really understand why all this time and money and effort are being expended? I know, from talking to some of the tourists who stop to look, that the question rises in their minds. Perhaps you, like them, can see the reason for archaeology in Egypt or Babylonia, where civilizations rose and fell thousands of years ago, or in Mexico or South America, where major cultures developed unknown to the world before Columbus. But you may think, of Nauvoo, built only a little more than a century ago, that surely there is enough known from the history books, the county records, the personal letters and diaries, to make all this rather unnecessary. One reason that might occur to you, as it sometimes does to me when I see the letters my "Virginia S. Harrington (Mrs. J. C.) is a native of Washington, D. C. And received her education in the public schools there, at Swarthmore College (B. A.), and the University of Chicago (M. A. In Anthropology). She was employed by the U. S. National Parks Service at Mesa Verde National Park, Colorado, and Colonial National Historical Park, Virginia, as an archaeologist, and married J. C. Harrington, Archaeologist-inCharge of the excavations at Jamestown, Virginia, in the 1930s. The Harringtons have a daughter and a son, and while they were growing up, Mrs. Harrington abandoned her professional work, but was active in the Girl Scouts, serving as her council president and as a member of the Region II] and National Program Committees—and in P. T. A., being president of the Richmond Federation of PTAs and on the Board of Managers of the Virginia Congress of Parents and Teachers. Since 1965, when her husband began serving as the archaeologist for Nauvoo Restoration, Inc. Following his retirement from the National Parks Service, she has assisted him in the archaeological research at Nauvoo, directing excavations at the Nauvoo Temple, the Edwin Webb Blacksmith Shop, and, now, the Times and Seasons site. 7an October 1968 husband gets from various historical organizations trying to arrange for some archaeological explorations, is that it gives prestige to historical restorations. It is the thing to do. It makes for status in State and National organizations. But, though I am not entirely joking when I mention this justification,' there is more to it than that. Another reason which _ has some merit, though it sounds quite superficial, is that it makes a good show. Visitors are impressed and thrilled, and sometimes watch entranced as the wall is exposed or the bits of glass are removed and so carefully placed in the artifact box. Occasionally, they tell you that they have heard and read about this kind of thing, but never supposed they would have an opportunity to see it going on, right here in this country. But, of course, this also is hardly the real answer to our question. The most obvious reason is that archaeology provides information that is not otherwise available in spite of all the records and books and historical research. Several "for instances" come to mind. In 1966, when pre-restoration work started at the Wilford Woodruff house, there were several pieces of information that, it was hoped, would come from the ground; but no one was concerned about his well, for a good, functioning well is quite obvious there. But, in the course of the excavations, another well turned up near the house, large and carefully built of stone, but filled in. Some of you may have seen it. Why someone dug a new 732 Looking down into the well which Wilford Woodruff personally dug at the rear of his Nauvoo residence, and walled with limestone slabs. It had gone dry, was abandoned, and filled in for many years before excavated by the archaeologists. Well, abandoning the old, cannot be said, but there is little question but that this buried one was Wilford Woodruff's original well. In 1967 a small, brick-paved structure, or its remains, was found southwest of the Brigham Young house. Neither Brigham Young nor any of the later land records seemed to have made any direct reference to it. Last summer we flirted with the possibility of its being a summer kitchen, though there is no evidence that Mormons had summer kitchens, which seem to have come in with the later German inhabi- ¢ *. J s# od Why Archaeology at Nauvoo? Foundation of Brigham Young's original cellar, built above ground with double walls and a dead-air insulating space between, as the land was too swampy to permit the excavation of an underground cellar. Late cistern. Tants. Brigham Young did describe a vegetable cellar he built before building his brick house. At first, no one supposed that this fairly substantial and goodsized structure could be anything as insignificant as a vegetable cellar; but after reviewing the archaeological conditions and looking into the nature of some later storage cellars in Utah, the conclusion seems well-based that this, indeed, is what it was. Again, in 1967, it was decided, toward the end of the summer, to take a little time to excavate the Edwin Webb blacksmith shop. Land records and other documentary material seemed fairly clear, that this was a small, thirty foot wide stone building on Parley street, quite precisely locatable. The first excavation trench struck stone footings immediately, and it seemed that the only thing more to do to define the building was to move thirty feet west and dig another trench. But when this was done, no end wall was found, only the continuing front and back walls. Obviously, there had been some misinterpretation, and it would be necessary to follow out the walls tosee what happened. When the west end wall was finally located, it was sixty-two feet from the east one; and the shop, far from being a small blacksmith shop only, turned out to have two rooms, with appurtenances to suggest that part 733 October 1968 was the blacksmith shop and part a wagon shop. Finally, just last month archaeology confirmed something at the temple that had been guessed at but not really known. This concerned the nature of the floor paving in the basement. Though there were some Mormon references to brick paving there, the most widely known description of the temple, after the Mormons left, Buckingham's, mentioned an earth floor, and this information has been used extensively by later writers. Careful analysis of the archaeological and historical records permitted the hypothesis that there had been a brick floor, laid without mortar in a layer of sand, and that the bricks had been salvaged and disposed of before Buckingham made his visit in the summer of 1847. But now we have just uncovered, at the temple site, a section of the original brick paving, about seven feet square, in a diagonal herringbone pattern, neatly laid in a sand base. Thus the discrepancy is resolved and the hypothesis verified, that the basement did have a brick floor. More examples could be cited, and we are on the verge of having a very interesting one at the Jonathan Browning house. But these items, I think, establish clearly that, in spite of the recency of the time and the extent of the historical records, archaeology is necessary to make the data complete, "to tell it like it is," as they say nowadays. But there is another type of information that archaeology can provide, information that. Comes from the artifacts, as we call the china and glass, the metal 734 and stone, that are almost invariably found in the ground in association with buildings that have been lived in or otherwise occupied. These artifacts not only indicate what was owned and used in times past, but also throw light on the people who possessed them that history may not mention directly. Were they rich or poor, self-made or well-educated, simple or sophisticated? The things they used and left behind often help us to understand this. For example, did they use elegant and lovely chinaware and glass on their tables, or were they content with homemade pottery and utensils? I cannot give you any good examples yet from Nauvoo, for the Mormons lived here only six years, and nodoubt took their best things with them when they left. In Brigham Young's backyard a refuse pit revealed English china in an attractive blue and white pattern. We have now decided that it is fairly unlikely that Brigham Young himself used it, but research has indicated that this is the kind of dishes that he might well have had, because they were made at a time and in the. Area of his missionary trips to England. The iron objects from the Edwin Webb blacksmith shop are still being treated in the laboratory, but they may tell whether tools and hardware that were used here were made on the spot, purchased in St. Louis or Pittsburgh, or even imported from abroad. Artifacts can also throw light on the craftsmanship and concern for their work of the people who left them. In the broken rubble of the fill at the temple site, we find A stage in the reconstruction of an English china transfer plate from fragments unearthed on the Brigham Young lot. Fragments of beautifully carved and sculptured trim, and even the casual visitor, running his fingers over the smooth stone, will comment on the skill of the makers. At the temple, also, I found another interesting sidelight on workmanship, which underlines the fact that much labor on the temple was _ contributed, and no doubt often by men who could give muscle but not. Skill. Several of the massive eight-feet square foundations for the great interior supporting columns have been excavated. There are two, opposite each other, one of which is of fine squared blocks, neatly set; and the other is of various sizes of rough stone randomly arranged and with crevices between them large enough to run a shovel handle in for a couple of feet. Why Archaeology at Nauvoo? Still another sidelight from the temple is related to the brick paving that I described earlier. We know from the archaeological evidence that this was put in quite late in the building of the temple, for the sand bed in which it was laid runs over the stone drain for the font, and contemporary records show that the drain was built after March 1845. Thisis confirmed by another contemporary account, that of William Mendenhall, a_ bricklayer who mentioned in his diary that he was laying brick at the temple as late as April 4th, 1846. This, in a way, is an amazing and poignant bit of information. Brigham Young had long since left Nauvoo for the West. There could have been no certainty in Mendenhall's mind about how long his work would serve its planned purpose in the building it would adorn. And yet the bit of paving that has been found shows careful workmanship, that endured through the vicissitudes of the next nineteen years of fire, tornado, and rock salvaging. Even more, it shows something of the meaning of this building to the men who built it. What I have said so far has, I hope, given some answer to my original question, why archaeology at Nauvoo? But I do not think it is a complete answer, for to justify an activity, it is necessary toshow that it contributes to the over-all goal of the work or the organization. What I have said so far would be equally true, in general, of archaeology at Jamestown, or Independence Hall, or Fort Laramie. What is the goal at Nauvoo, to which, 735 October 1968 hopefully, archaeology is making a meaningful contribution? The goal at Nauvoo, for Nauvoo Restoration and any other group interested in its history, is, I believe, to preserve and interpret the site so that visitors, and people generally, will better understand its importance in American history. Its significance in American history, specifically noted in connection with its recognition as a National Historic Landmark, relates to America's Westward Expansion. To quote: Among the forces which aided in the winning of the great West, the Mormon migration and settlement in the Great Basin stood out as one of the most positive factors in carrying American civilization to the intermountain and Pacific coastal areas... Nauvoo will be commemorated as a point from which this great westward migration commenced. But the problem is to relate this to what is here, and what people already know. At most historic sites the solution is simpler. At Jamestown, Virginia, the average tourist has some vague knowledge of the first settlement, and can see ruins and foundations in the ground; Gettysburg has become known as a great battlefield, and there earthworks and cannon are visible. But Nauvoo is a quiet village, where some travelers are not even aware of the Mississippi River and the background knowledge of visitors is rather special. For many Mormons it is the home of their forefathers and for all Church members the home of their Prophet; for non-Mormons Brigham Young and polygamy make an isolated and perhaps inappropriate point of contact. 736 So, what has this to do with Westward Expansion? How can a visitor be made aware of the significance of this place, led to appreciate the meaning of Nauvoo in American history? Perhaps one way of approaching this would be to use the standard questions of journalism— who, when, where, what, why. If they are answered during a visit to Nauvoo, a better understanding will, hopefully, be created. Who were the people who lived here? This should not be a catalogue of names, for in most cases the names are irrelevant. They were Americans, whose grandparents knew, and may have fought in, the American Revolution; who themselves had lived through the War of 1812; whose family and friends had faced the perils of the frontier. Independence from the restrictions of the Old World, personal liberty to believe and live their own convictions, were meaningful and realizable ideals. They also were people of European birth, fleeing the upheavals of their homelands, drawn by a new religious faith to a land dedicated since the _ Pilgrim Fathers to freedom of worship. They were, on the whole, simple people, farmers, carpenters, blacksmiths, storekeepers, for this was not a community of the wealthy, of great landowners, of adventurers. When was it built? Dates are not enough, for few besides historians can recognize the meaning of chronological landmarks beyond high points such as 1492, 1776, and a few similar dates. This was a time when the faces, the thoughts, the dreams of Americans were turning to the West. The trickle across the Appalachian Mountains _ that had begun before the American Revolution had become a flood, and the Lousiana Purchase had doubled the country's area. Soon Texas and Oregon would be considered as inevitable parts of America, and the Mexican War would essentially complete our boundaries. Many citizens of Nauvoo had been born in a Nation bounded on the west by the river on whose shores they now lived, and which they would cross to spend the rest of their lives in what was not yet the United States. Andrew Jackson, the first western President, had just completed his two terms of office; Abraham Lincoln was living in Springfield and building his law practice; in a very few years gold would be discovered in California at Sutter's Mill. The shadow of slavery lay across the land, but the Civil War was two decades in the future. The where and what questions are more easily answered, because the answers lie on and in the ground, in the houses, the shops, the public buildings of Nauvoo. Here these people, in_ these years, lived their lives, but with a difference, for they were united with each other, and divided from their neighbors by a religious belief that was not just a faith but a way of life. This leads to the last question, the why? Why did they come here, why did they leave Nauvoo? It is not enough to say that they came in 1839 and left in 1846 because they were persecuted and driven. This Why Archaeology at Nauvoo? Had happened before in_ the world, and usually with quite different results. Some religious minorities resisted; some _ conformed; some went underground. But America has provided another alternative, used by the Puritans in Massachusetts, the Catholics in Maryland, the Quakers in Pennsylvania, the alternative of the land itself— and the people of Nauvoo took advantage of this. They had dedication, they had leadership, and they had a place to go. And so they left, for the valley of the Great Salt Lake. As in the original settlement of this country, the search for religious liberty was added to the search for personal independence, for wealth, for adventure, which impelled others to bring about the peopling of the West. To conclude, then, the answer to the question, Why Archaeology at Nauvoo? Is that the things and the facts found in the ground make an important contribution to the knowledge and appreciation of the people, the time, and the events of this place which plays an important part in American history. Archaeology throws light on the who and the when, tells much about the where and what, and dramatizes the why of the men and women of Nauvoo. What the visitor can see with his own eyes, touch with his own fingers, and know with assurance were the actual surroundings and possessions of real people, help him to understand better than written or spoken words how thei owners played their part in the Westward Expansion of the United States. 737 » Remember the last time you had a tempting hot bowl of cooked oatmeal cereal when the salt was left out? Just as nourishing as if the salt had been added —it nevertheless did not encourage you or the children to ask for seconds. In proportion to the whole—such a little salt was needed. Family Home Evening can be the same way. In proportion to the wonderfully nourishing lessons that have been given to us, the ingredients needed to bring out the savor may be so small as to seem insignificant, and yet the difference is the wanting of second helpings from all —even you! I like to think of the four ingredients being: S$—Satisfaction A—Anticipation L—Love T—Time and Tact S Is for Satisfaction To be satisfying, there must be achievement. By allowing every member in the family to participate, you can encourage them to feel that without them the evening wouldn't have been quite so good. It will also increase their talents in all areas, if wisdom is used in the variance of assignment. In participation, the children will commit themselves to that which they teach. But of most importance right now is the savor of contentment it brings to the whole—the contentment of both the children and the parents wanting to take one evening a week to be together. 738 RECIPE FOR FAMILY HOME EVENING Don't Forget the Salt! Lillian Y. Bradshaw May I list some ways in which we can all have fun by being needed? 1. Choose at least one child each week, preferably two, to help plan the menu. Let them also go with you on shopping day to purchase the food. If they participate in the buying, their interest in the preparation of the meal will double and you, in turn, have helped yourself— number one step in making yourself enthusiastic—having help. Sometimes, when children are young, their ideas for dinner will be questionable—like peanut butter sandwiches. Go along with their ideas just as far as you can. Never discourage an idea com- pletely. Sometimes I've had to weigh values. Remember they, too, will learn if a mistake is made, if it doesn't taste quite as good as they thought it would, or if it was more difficult to prepare than it seemed in the recipe. This is perhaps the moment of greatest frustration, and you will have to use tact to smooth the disappointment. Always have a canned substitute ready in case of emergency. Your helping them solve little problems now will help them to seek your help later on for big problems. Why not try putting them on a budget and add to the challenge? This will help solve many an argument. As a bonus, Mom's cooking will be more appreciated as they learn from experience the thought and work necessary to put a meal on the table. You have gained status in the eyes of your family. 2. Read the scriptures. A\lways let the child look up his own scripture from the original source. Even the youngest can be helped, though he might not be able to read and when Family Home Evening comes, he can be led to repeat some verses of scripture. Don't always give him the shortest. Challenge him into feeling important. The children, then, will learn how and where to find any scripture, and their books will become familiar friends that are always there when needed most. For Christmas this year, we gave to each of our children, as our most precious gift, a triple combination with his own name in gold imprinted on the cover. 3. Play music. This gives an outlet for all those hours of practicing. Recipe For Family Home Evening 4. Conduct the song. Let the children learn the use of a baton, even though it may be merely conducting with their hands. 5. Make posters. This will help teach the words of a song or emphasize the purpose of the lesson. This will help develop artistic ability and give each one a chance to display techniques he has learned in school. Be sure you have a drawer with supplies of all kinds—scissors, Scotch tape, colored paper, etc. 6. Tell a story. Encourage the children to read a story and then retell it. They will remember the story better and the moral it conveys. It will also help in keeping Family Home Evening time under control. But, most important, when they are thrown into a similar situation or problem with their friends, their chain of thought will cause them to remember the story and contemplate the solution taught therein. You have fortified them with meeting problems on their own, with wisdom. 7. Conduct the game. We try to include one game during the evening, and are always grateful when one is suggested in the Manual that stresses the objective. By using this method, the children remember a lesson for weeks. The one conducting the game always learns most. For, not only does he recognize the purpose of the game, he also learns how to direct people and how to use ingenuity in obtaining the "props" needed. He learns to plan ahead. Knowing the kind of fun to keep teenagers moving and interested will not be much of a problem to him in the future. 739 October 1968 8. Give the prayer. This might seem very simple, but learning when young to be grateful and to express gratitude is the soothing balm that keeps all of us from becoming brittle. A ls for Anticipation Giving a "theme" to the menu will give that "Oh, I just can't wait" feeling to the entire family. It will develop imagination and give a sense of adventure to the four walls which enclose the family from the outside world. Home will not be a place from which they want to escape. They will seek home for the fun that is there. For example, with card tables or a board placed on bricks or blocks of wood close to the floor, a cowboy dinner (homemade stew served in cans) might be served with the added atmosphere of many used pieces of candle giving the light. This should not be the case with every Family Home Evening dinner, but quite often. Thursday night, our Family Home Evening, provides the best meal of the week, whether it is roast pork made special by stuffiing with prunes, or hamburgers with soy sauce served teriyaki style. Whatever is fixed, it is just a little extra special. Give an air of mystery to the special treat which will be served after the program. Do not serve the dessert with the dinner. Keep it until after the family prayer concludes the lesson. It may be a box of animal crackers for each, or cut-out cookies to be decorated by each as he chooses, homemade ice cream, or a cake Suzie made "just special." 740 L Is for Love Love them more than anything else. Even more than a last minute invitation to dinner on that night—Family Home Evening. Or even more than a long-anticipated invitation. This will be entirely up to you in the beginning. It may seem totally unimportant to give up an entire evening when the children are very young and go to bed early. Why stay home from that fascinating evening with good people just to have one hour with the young ones, when they won't know the difference? By trial and error, we have found that if you are planning something else that night, even though you have Family Home Evening as usual, or a little early in order to get away, still you are aware of time passing, baby-sitter to pick up, children to get off to bed. And have you ever noticed how they know you want them to hurry to bed and be settled, and they just do not want to settle? Frustrating, hectic—somehow, it takes away that peaceful contented feeling of "I'm all yours tonight." Years have passed and we have found much contentment in this one night of being with our family, and, even more wonderful, we have found that it keeps our love as husband and wife fresh and sweet. An evening just to be with one another. Making Family Home Evening a habit early in married life gives a simplicity to living that all would now seem to be seeking. For this one night, I find peace is mine. Especially during this last year as the lessons envelop our everyday living, peace is more abundant all week. I can see and feel the difference. My home is truly my temple of peace and love. Now that we have teenagers, there is a common bond of love and loyalty and empathy as they find themselves faced with the same choices we have had to meet. Often there are silent tears (and some not so silent)—it isn't always with joy that they make their own decisions but strength is built within them as these choices are made. T Is for Time Most stakes have set the time for Family Home Evening. That is the best time to use, because all activities in the stake will be planned for other nights. If you still have conflicts, however, sit down with all the family and ask them when, not if, they would like to meet. Invariably, a volley of "I can't come on this night or that night because"' will follow! Being positive, with love on your part, will let them know how important it is and a time will be set. Once it is set, stick to it! This takes stamina, courage, and often downright faith in yourself, but consistency is the keyword to lasting success. Vary the hour when necessary, never) the day. Here, too, I might mention that for just the one hour when we are all together, the phone is not answered. All who know us know why, and that they canreach us just a little later. If anyone comes to the door, we invite him but rarely (almost | Recipe For Family Home Evening in to participate or to return later. T Is Also for Tact Years ago when we began to have Family Home Evening, J found all the material, J searched all the books for ideas, J planned the activity, and J trained the children with song and music. My husband was busy with business and Church work, and most of the planning was up to me. I thoroughly enjoyed it most of the time, but in my weaker and more tired moments, I felt the need of help. Then came that wonderful, fabulous, blessed day when we heard there would be a manual for Family Home Evening. I, with contentment, and Blair, with anticipation, looked forward to his teaching the lesson each week. With the passing of the first year, we were overwhelmed with gratitude for the love we could feel in our home. Our Family Nights were truly rewarding. Blair and I seemed to be partners in the home more than ever. Then came the second Manual, and, withit, Blair became more involved with scouting and Church and business, and so, little by little, feeling compassion for him being so busy and tired, I slowly began to take over the preparation of the lesson each week, until once again I was organizer and leader. About halfway through the year, I began to notice a difference in our family night and in our home. Somehow, though the lessons were good, that warm sparkle was gone. What was the difference in the two years? Something was surely different. Somehow, over 741 October 1968 and over, I seemed to hear from within, the phrase repeated "Put Father at the head of the home." All at once I realized I had, with the _ kindest intentions, usurped my husband's _leadership in the home. How can Father's guiding Family Home Evening have anything to do with his being head of the home? As he conducts the evening, he, in truth, is giving authority to all that is taught. These lessons are teaching the very fiber of all the character of a child's daily living—honesty, patience, gratitude. Now, for example, during the week, you can say, as clothes are left on the floor, "Son, let's think about our lesson last week. Do you remember Heavenly Father's words as your father taught us about stewardship?" Though the words may not have been from the father directly, his conducting gives the authority as he directs the evening. Now you can see it ls the father's authority that is present in the home at all times even though he is away. Discipline problems will begin to melt. Father now is the ideal of honesty, integrity, courage— because he follows Heavenly Father's teachings. Wanting to be "just like him" will now bind the child closer than ever not only to his earthly father. But also to his Heavenly Father. The circle is brought full round as we all know how a child can compel each of us to be better, simply because he believes we are that way. Although Blair calls on me often to teach a small part of the lesson, all my techniques and 742 teaching know-how can't compare to the spirit of authority brought by my husband to Family Home Evening. In preparation, we both read the lesson and discuss any point necessary. He jots down names beside assignments in the Manual and tells each of the children and myself what should be done. I am prop manager, encouraging the children to be prepared, making sure supplies are on hand for them to make the posters and prepare the games. There might be the question raised, "But what about the homes where the father is away in military service, on Church or business assignments, or because of death?" Children are quick to know the reasons why "Mother takes over." They willrally around her. They know the reasons why she must be at the head of the home now. But I know the Family Home Evening can be a very real help in disciplining the children if the mother will relate the teachings of the father's ideals in the same manner as if he were presiding. Often parents say I wish, I wish. Bringing those wishes true involves the element of desiring that wish more than anything else, and then with faith, doing. Family Home Evening holds all the promise of gold at the end of the rainbow—the treasure of good children—those you want to be with—those who enjoy your company. Remember, it took time to buy the salt, open the box, measure it, pour it in, and then stir. It will take time and thought to add the salt to Family Home Evening. Ramona W. Cannon Miss Gertrude Ramey of Ashland, Kentucky, has mothered more than three thousand abandoned or delinquent children for twenty-four years. In the former county poorhouse, which she converted into a warm, loving home, her guests remain for from a few days to fifteen years. She serves purely from love, with no financial compensation, but with the deepest gratitude of juvenile court judges. Lee Rice, twenty-one, left Ohio State University, where she was a student, joined Vista (Volunteers in Service to America), and with a Vista colleague spent a year in Chalkyitsik, an Athabascan Indian Village of 100 people ten miles inside the Arctic Circle. They taught, trained, and broadened the horizons of the children in many ways and did a great amount of reading to them. Back at the university, she finds her education much more significant than formerly. Dorothy Dunn, a specialist in anthropology and in art also, is author of a valuable book, American Indian Painting of the Southwest and Plains Area (University of New Mexico Press, Albuquerque, $25.00). With 157 illustrations, the text covers from prehistoric times to the present, including petroglyphs, hide paintings and the works of truly great artists. The Pueblo Indian, she says ''has perhaps advanced to a nobility of abstract thought attained by only the great minds given to religious contemplation." Dr. Ruth Clark, a former Utahn, with a Ph. D. From the University of Southern California in speech pathology and clinical psychology, was a speech correctionist in Salt Lake City for eight years, then was director of the speech clinic at Denver University for twenty-three years, and is now on a world-wide speaking tour. With much speech therapy, such as learning to speak with alternate muscles after the voice box has been removed, Dr. Clark finds one must alter one's self image (from one of depression to one of faith, for example) before the cure can be wrought. Her psychology is a most useful tool in these cases. Dee Breger of New York, a twenty-five-year-old scientist, specializing in chemical analysis of water, and geophysicist colleague from Australia, Margaret Kay, are included in the otherwise male crew of the Eltanin in a scientific expedition into Antarctica, for the National Science Foundation. Mayla Ann Mitchell, seventeen, Altamont, Utah, high school senior, was among twelve national officers chosen at the convention at Miami Beach, Florida, of the Future Homemakers of America. She will be national reporter during 1968-69. The national membership numbers more than 601,000. Margaret Mead of Goleta, California, and her copilot Billie Herrin, flew 2500 miles in a Bellanca single-engine airplane to win the prize in the twenty-second annual Powder Puff Derby cross country air race. Their average speed was 176.53 miles per hour. 743 Volume 55 October 1968 Number 10 a Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor = Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor = Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence 3. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp 744 Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma B. Ashton ® Inspiration is the divine influence exerted upon the mind and spirit of man. It is one of the ways the Heavenly Father communicates with his children. Inspiration is the power beyond one's limited human capacities which generates the productive ideas and the new thoughts which motivate one most effectively to use his abilities and achieve the maximum from his efforts. The more responsive an individual is the more directly and plainly will he be moved upon by the spirit. The degree of receptivity to inspiration is determined by the mind and heart of him who receives it. Faith, prayer and clear-mindedness are prerequisites. ''The glow of inspiration warms us; it is holy rapture."' (Ovid.) Acting under inspiration one's mind becomes alive with ideas and creative thoughts. One of the great gifts from the Creator to his children is the inspiration which produces productive ideas. Paul states that God has prepared great things for man and ''hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit'? And, being receptive Ie hat Guides Us to the things of God, men may understand and speak, ''Which things also we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth." (I Cor. 2:10-13.) Those chosen to hold leadership callings and to teach are commanded to 'teach with the Spirit." They will be assisted and guided in the conveyance of the truths they receive through inspiration. The right to receive inspiration for the work is inherent in every calling. The Lord has promised that he will move the spirit within man. ''The inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding.'' | (Job 32:8.) With this understanding, inner resources are quickened and one's ability to receive and act under inspiration is enlarged. The right to give inspiration is an attribute of leadership. Worthy leaders exert an invigorating influence upon those they lead. Inspiring leaders animate their followers and stir them to effective work. They motivate, arouse interest, and bring the light of understanding as they give inspired direction and counsel. There is, also, a treasury of inspiration in the written word. Men inherit rich legacies of inspiration left by preceding generations. Inspiration may come from the example of other's lives. One's own life may become better ordered and more abundant by observing and adhering to examples of goodness, of righteousness, and dedication. Of vital significance are the successful lives of worthy individuals. The poet has expressed in the words 'Lead, Kindly Light'' the Surrender of one's whole mind and soul to the influence of the divine, the good, and the worthy. These words indicate a beautiful dependence upon the Lord to guide and a willingness to accept such guidance. The placing of one's hand in God's, one's heart in his service, one's mind in readiness, prepare one to receive his inspiration. Each one seeking inspiration in his calling or his daily life should be able to say ''Lead, Kindly Light' and | will follow. —L. W. M. IN MEMORIAM Achsa Eggertsen Paxman June 28, 1885—August 8, 1968 » Achsa Eggertsen Paxman, a former member of the General Board of Relief Society, passed away August 8, 1968, in Salt Lake City, Utah. She was the daughter of Henrietta Nielson and Simon Peter Eggertsen, Jr.: Sister Paxman served on the General Board from January of 1940 to June of 1953. She served on numerous committees and traveled extensively throughout the Church filling conference assignments. Sister Paxman was a graduate of Brigham Young University. She served in many important civic and political positions, including two years as a member of the Utah State Legislature. She was also active in the other auxiliaries of the Church. June 17, 1908, in the Salt Lake Temple, Sister Paxman was married to William Monroe Paxman. They are the parents of two sons and three daughters. There are nineteen grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. Mr. Paxman passed away in 1960. The General Board of Relief Society and the Relief Society members throughout the Church who knew and admired Sister Paxman extend heartfelt sympathy to her family at her passing. Rwy WINDSONG SPEAKS The night wind cools the heat of summer's day As mist is gently rising from the lake. The softly lapping waves in restless sway That nudge the cattails, almost seem to make A singing sigh to lull the world to rest. Where mountain lake is ringed by solemn pines No lingering dusk, just sudden dark, is best. A marsh duck flaps in perfect, homing lines And skids across the water with a splash That shatters quiet, then the final hush Settles as the phosphorescent flash Is rippled by the night wind's trembling, lush Rain-scented breath from off the lofty peaks. The answering lake is foil as windsong speaks. —Gladys Hesser Burnham 746 Relief Society S C) |B. General Announcement The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce a contest for Latter-day Saint women in song writing (lyrics and music) to be conducted annually. The purpose of the contest is to encourage creativity in this form of art excellence in the general field of music among the women of the Church. The General Board will be happy to receive entries following this announcement until the closing date of the contest (see below). Name of Contest This contest is to be known as THE RELIEF SOCIETY SONG CONTEST. Dates This year's contest (1968-69) opens with this announcement and closes March 1, 1969. All entries must be postmarked before midnight, March 1, 1969. Prizes Prizes will be awarded as follows: First Prize $100 Second Prize $ 75 If two individuals collaborate on the words and the music, the prize will be awarded as follows: Sixty per cent to the composer and forty per cent to the author. Decision of the judges will be final. Winners will be notified by the General Board and public announcement of the awards will be made in the June 1969, issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The General Board reserves the right to withhold the awarding of prizes if no compositions of sufficient merit are submitted. Rules 1. The contest will be open to all Latter-day Saint women, except members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Each contestant may submit one composition only. 3. The composition is to be submitted in a sealed envelope. No explanatory or pictorial supplementary material should accompany the composition and the sheet(s) upon which the song is written should have no identifying marks or signature upon it (them). Address to: SONG CONTEST Relief Society Building 76 North Main Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84111 747 October 1968 4. It will not be possible for the General Board to correspond with the contestants regarding individual works. 5. No nom de plumes are to be used. 6. A signed statement is to accompany the "work" certifying: qa. The composer is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The composition is the contestant's original work. That it has never been published. That it is not in the hands of an editor or another person with view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 7. Contestants should submit a biography of 150 words, or less, giving essential data regarding themselves and citizenship (for copyright purposes). 8. The music should be unpublished. The Relief Society withholds the right to publish the same and assign the copyright to a publisher on a royalty basis. The royalty will be divided on a fifty-fifty basis between the composer and the Relief Society for two years after publication. Thereafter, the Relief Society will waive its royalty and the fifty per cent royalty shall accrue to the composer. Such royalty shall be ten per cent of the marked selling price. If an author collaborates with a composer a division of the royalties will be made agreeable to both of them. 9, The songs most preferred will express spiritual values. The texts need not be original but must not be subject to copyright. Texts most preferred will sing with natural flow—with a happy placement of vowels for ease of delivery. Tricky effects should be avoided. 10. Manuscripts should be written in ink. Manuscript paper may vary to suit the composer. Generally the size to be preferred is octavo or 9" by 12". 11. Music is to be submitted in clearly written manuscript, SSA (first soprano, second soprano, and alto) setting. Occasional two or four parts may be used for special effects, aS may unison. 'The accompaniment should be suitable tor piano or organ. Each of three parts should be written on separate staves as is generally the case in octavo publication. The writing style and complexity should approximate the type of selections that have been sung by the Singing Mothers at Relief Society General Conferences. Highly contrapuntal and dissonant musical settings are generally too difficult and, except for special effects and contrast, should be avoided. Eloquent phrasing will be considered highly desirable. 12. The recommended performance length is approximately three to five minutes. 13. The winning works will be published and programmed for performance by Singing Mothers choruses. 14. The winning of one Relief Society Song Contest in no way prohibits the contestant from entering and winning another contest in another year, but a contestant who received first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she ls eligible to enter the contest again. Ooo Judges All. Manuscripts will be reviewed by a competent team of judges composed as A representative of the publishing business, 4 member of the Relief Society General Board Music Committee, two competent directors of choruses, and a recognized composer. 748 OE Kathleen Peace Gregory Dewsbury, Yorkshire, England =» "Hey, Mum, when do we eat?" Jean awoke with a start, realizing instantly that she had overslept. Her eldest son stood grinning at her, his ginger hair untidy, his pajama jacket buttoned unevenly. The other two boys came running into her bedroom as Jean sat up, and the baby on the cot stretched like a sleepy kitten. "I must have been tired last night," she said. "Quick, get washed and dressed, and no monkey business," she added, as young Pete started bouncing on her bed. She dressed quickly and went into the bathroom as the three boys came out laughing. They are so happy, she thought, not a care in the world. As she entered the bathroom, a large, black, plastic spider swung gently over the wash basin. She had to laugh. What a bunch of terrors she had. Even young James, only a few months old, was a bundle of mischief, always giggling and chuckling. When she got downstairs, she found John had taken charge of the kitchen, serving cereal and poaching eggs. He is a good lad, she thought. Another year, and he'll be a deacon. Martin, the second son, was busy feeding the goldfish and canary, while Pete set out cutlery and crockery. "Just in time, Mum," John greeted his mother as he brought a jug of milk from the refrigerator and set it in the center of the gaily checked cloth. "Pete, come out from under the table, and put that comic down. You haven't time to read this morning," Jean said, as she sat down. 749 October 1968 "I'm a dog today," replied Pete. "Well, you had better have your cereal on the floor then," Jean answered. With a bound that nearly upset the table, Pete came out and sat next to Jean. "Martin, will you ask the blessing this morning?" John asked. As they ate their breakfast, Jean looked at her family and thought how fortunate Steve and she were to have four lovely boys. John, the eldest, took his position as head of the family when Steve was away, and he seemed so grownup and serious one minute, and the next, he was playing tricks with the others. "Mum, it's swimming club today," he broke into her thoughts. "T have to swim fifteen lengths, and then I can represent our school in the Gala." "Good for you. Do you think you can do it?" Martin asked. "Well, I can try," John replied. "We can ask our Heavenly Father in our morning prayer, to help you," said Jean. "And to bless our Daddy while he's away from us," added Pete. "T do miss him. I like his stories about boats and cowboys and Indians, and Mum only knows girls' stories." "Pete, Mum does her best, after all she is a girl and girls don't understand about boats and battles like men," John said reprovingly, "and she knows some super stories like that one about David and Goliath and that fellow getting eaten by a whale." Jean had to laugh. "Okay, boys, let's have prayers. Then 750 it's time for school. You'll just make it if you hurry." The house was quiet after they had all gone, save for the rattling of the cot upstairs, announcing that young James was ready for his breakfast. She quickly stacked the dishes in the sink and hurried upstairs. James gave her a big toothless grin as she approached his cot. "Come on, my pet." She picked him up and took him downstairs. It certainly was fun having a baby in the house again. Pete, then the youngest, was six when James had been born and now the boys were a real help in the home. After the baby was settled for his morning sleep, she hurried about her chores. The boys liked apple pie, she would make one for tea, and chicken curry, also a family favorite. Today was her fourteenth wedding anniversary. What a shame Steve wouldn't be home to take her out to dinner or a theater, as he usually did. He always had a special anniversary treat for her every year. This would be the first year they had not quietly celebrated. Even when the boys were babies, he had found a baby sitter, usually his sister Pat, for this special evening. Pat, who worked in a hairdressing salon, had called round last night and offered to shampoo and set her hair, so Jean had spent a happy hour being fussed over. She had watched Pat's deft fingers tease her hair into shape, and now it shone like a golden cap. She smiled as she recalled her fifth anniversary, which fell two weeks from the expected date of her second baby. They had gone to dinner and to see a musical in the city and she had felt rather uncomfortable, but thought it was indigestion. By the time they reached home, she realized that their family would be increased that night. Her mother, rather Victorian in her views, had been scandalized when the baby was born at midnight. It just wasn't the thing to do, to be out so near to having a baby. Jean chuckled as she remembered the lecture she had received from her mother. At four-thirty, the boys came tumbling in, laughing and pushing as usual. "Mum, I'm in the Gala. I've swum fifteen lengths without stopping. So I'm the greatest." John was bubbling over with excitement. "Huh, listen to him, he's like that boxer chap on the T. V." Martin laughed. "T can swim, nearly," said Pete, not to be outdone. "Yes, with one foot on the bottom. You couldn't swim aThe Anniversary cross a dish of soup," John teased. "T'd be too big and, anyway, I'd rather drink it," retorted Pete, and they all giggled again. "Come along, boys, chicken curry and apple pie for tea." Jean sorted them out and helped to hang coats up. "Wash your hands before you sit down," she added, as they went into the kitchen. After tea, as the three boys helped Jean clear the table and dry the dishes, she asked them about their day at school. She suddenly realized that they were rather edgy and kept grinning at each other. "Okay, what's cooking? What are you up to this time?" Jean inquired, eyeing them suspiciously. "Salt in the sugar? Plastic beetles in the bath?" John and Martin reddened and started to laugh, while Pete jumped up and down like a ball. "T didn't tell, did I?" he shouted. "T didn't tell about the sup..." John and Martin pounced on Pete together, and the three of them went down in a spluttering October 1968 Jean surveyed the struggling mass of arms and legs and burst out laughing. "Now come clean, just what is going on?" Just at that moment the front door bell rang and, still laughing, she went to answer it. She opened the door to find Pat standing there. "Why, Pat dear, what a surprise, do come in. What are you doing here tonight? You are neglecting your poor husband, leaving him alone two nights together." "Oh, I thought I'd come round for a chat," Pat answered. "Are the boys at home?" "Yes, and they're up to monkey business I'm sure. They've just gagged Pete for nearly telling me something." She led the way into the kitchen, where the two elder boys were still sitting on a protesting, red-faced Pete. "By the way, I have a letter for you." Pat opened her handbag and gave Jean the letter. "Why, this is Steve's writing," Jean said. She opened the envelope and read the letter through, the color coming to her face. My Dearest Jean: Happy Anniversary. If everything works out right, you should receive this letter about 6:30. I shall be on my way home from London, to take you to dinner and a theater. I shall have a spray of white gardenias for you and will call for you around 7:30. You look so pretty in your blue dress, will you wear it for me? Will my dear wife be ready to go out with her husband of fourteen years? My love as always, Steve "Pat, now how did you get this letter?" Jean asked her sister-in-law. Pat smiled. "It was all ar- 752 ranged last week. I was to set your hair last night and come round and baby sit tonight unless Steve phoned to say he couldn't make it. He left money for the boys and instructed them to take your blue dress to the cleaners. They were all in on the secret." Jean looked at her sons with tears in her eyes. The boys were looking pleased with themselves. "So that is why poor Pete was squashed." She smiled through her tears. "He couldn't hold it another second, Mum," John answered. "We had to gag him. You had to have Dad's letter first. Now off you go and get ready. We don't want you to be late. Pete and Martin can finish the dishes, and I'll clean your shoes for you." As she hurried upstairs, she heard Pat helping the boys and thought how fortunate she was to have Pat for a sister-in-law. "Aunt Pat, did Dad phone you?" John asked. "Yes, this afternoon at work. He said it was all right to deliver the letter as he would be able to get home." She smiled at the boys. "Was it very difficult to keep the secret?" "Oh, yes," said Pete, "I kept forgetting and nearly telling. Hey, look at our Mum, doesn't she look nice?" The others turned and saw Jean crossing the hall. Her face was flushed with excitement and her eyes shining. "Jean, you look lovely, come sit here. James is in bed, and I'm just going to tub Pete." Pat turned to the boys. "Come on, let's have these soldiers put away. It's like a battlefield in here," as you can plainly see." Jean sat down at the edge of the chair and watched Pat hustle the boys around. "I feel all excited, like a teenager on her first date,' she said. "And I feel rather guilty seeing you doing my work." "You're very welcome, my dear,' Pat answered. "It's your special day, and you and Steve The Anniversary don't get out very often together. Listen there's the car. Off you go and enjoy yourselves." Jean's eyes were misty again as she kissed her sons and her sister-in-law. "Thank you, boys. Thank you, Pat," she whispered as she hugged her. Then, turning, she crossed the hall, opened the door, and went out, closing it quickly behind her. THE GOLDEN CIRCLET Your Golden Wedding day was filled with joy; Scored to the lute song of love That themes your life as one! Together, you began the song, young hearts ablaze With wonderment and awe. You pledged your troth Each seeing beyond that moment. Past passions''s fire, To the soaring heights where only They who truly love aspire. Then, as the years lay one on one, you found heart room To hold the bounties reaped in love, The heartbreak shared. You thought your love complete, that short Half-century ago, And still it grew. Tested by grief, strengthened by faith and tempered by time, The golden circlet Of seasons past draws tight. But, still you smile, wearing the golden mantie with delight; Sweet love yet shared And eager hearts attuned, forever young! —Betty G. Spencer 753 NIMBLE FINGERS PERFORM WITH THE NEEDLE Anna Conquest, Tacoma Stake, Washington, has had one great wish throughout her life—to be able to use the needle to bring beauty and happiness into the lives of others. Sister Conquest donates at least one pair of pillowcases each month to Relief Society, and her beautiful work is unsurpassed in the stake. The cases are done in a satin stitch with silk thread and are beautiful in color and workmanship. She also crochets and embroiders beautiful tablecloths for friends, family, and Relief Society. She is indeed endowed with a talent for beautiful needlework. Sister Conquest was born in Norway eighty-six years ago. She joined the Church at the age of eleven and migrated to America. Sister Conquest has done much to aid the building up of the Church in the Tacoma area, and her kindness to missionaries stretches back many years. In addition to her other Church activities, she has served as a counselor in Relief Society and has been a diligent visiting teacher for more than eighteen years. She has traced her genealogy on her mother's side back to the sixteenth century and had the temple work done for all these progenitors. She is an inspiration to all who know her. 754 y z - LIE for Tomorrow Helen Cazier Norton @ "He's been such a good boy all afternoon, I'll show my appreciation by preparing his favorite dessert for supper," I told myself as I glanced out the window to where our most beloved possession played contentedly in the dirt pile. The toy tractor his daddy had made from the cab of an otherwise car-crushed fire engine, part of a roller skate, and a piece of two-by-four, was, as usual, the companion for our dark-eyed, three-year-old's lonely only-child playtime on the farm. Most of the time, his expensive toys were cast aside in its favor. Lately, he and his daddy had fashioned a disk out of jar caps, tiny spools sawed into small sections, and heavy wire. With this, he had been able to broaden his "farming" operation into "tilling" the fields of his favorite play area. Checking the clock, I was assured of plenty of time for my meal preparation. A corn-starch pudding I had made a few weeks ago had interested him greatly. Into the bowl, I measured three tablespoons of flour and three tablespoons of cornstarch. A trill of the telephone required attention. After promising the Primary president that I would pick up the Thompson children for meeting the next day, and, of course, exchanging a little casual conversation, I turned back to my simple pudding. Oh, yes, a sprinkle of salt and one-half cup of sugar. Into the top of the steaming hot double-boiler, I put two and one-half cups milk. This time, a knock at the front door sent me scurrying in that direction, first turning the burner under the milk to low. Wouldn't you know it would be only a salesman selling something for which we already had a satisfactory substitute? Nevertheless, I took time to cushion my refusal with courtesy. After all, he was only out to make a living, the same as everyone else. The ringing of the phone conveniently brought that matter to a close. [t was a neighbor down the ditch inquiring as to what time my husband expected to be through with the irrigation water. These interruptions consumed a sizeable chunk out of my timing, so I hurriedly added one-half cup of cold milk to the dry ingredients and gave them a quick stir before mixing with the hot milk. Later, I blended in a beaten egg and, finally, onehalf teaspoon of lemon and vanilla mixed. Every now and then, amid phases of the rest of the meal, I would eye the pudding critically and take a few conscience-stricken, energetic beating turns in an effort to minimize the lumps. Supper was ready on time. Either the other two did not notice the lumps or they appreciated supper on time so much that they chose not to criticize. 756 = Marva D. Beck Today is T MENU Ae esh Sliced eae Eggs morning, but I had to get up in time to allow for the Oven to preheat and twenty-five minutes baking time! 758 A Special Breakfast MAKE-AHEAD BREAKFAST CAKE 1% c. Flour Y% c. Shortening Yc. Sugar 74 c. Milk 1 tbsp. Baking powder 1 egg pinch of salt Sift dry ingredients. Cut in shortening. Add milk and egg. Pour into greased 8" square pan. Sprinkle topping over batter. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight. Bake 25 minutes in 400° oven. TOPPING 4 tbsp. Flour 6 tbsp. Sugar 3 tbsp. Butter 1% tsp. Cinnamon Sleep was scarce that first night, as I wondered how the family would react to the elaborate breakfast. I think my husband was as excited about it as I was. He even volunteered to get up early and turn on the oven. The children shrieked with surprise and delight when they saw the lovely table the next morning, and a very special feeling of togetherness and unity was evident as we knelt by our chairs that morning for our family prayer and blessing on the food. Each member of the family saved his menu, and later I found that the children had taken theirs to school for "show and tell," and my husband took his to the office to show his secretary and co-workers. My intent was to show the family that I truly loved them. The message was clear to them as I found out later that night. As I tucked three-year-old Todd into bed, I told him that I loved him very much. He hugged me tight and said, "Mommy, do you love me enough for breakfast cake again tomorrow?" LG NOSTALGIA What rapture fills my heart When strains of half-forgotten melody Take me back across the years— To where its start Awakened, in my untried youth, The luring hold of beauty, And captured, spelibound my mind to soothe In dreams of ecstasy and charm. Now youth has left the shore Of carefree, reckless phase. The tune is sweeter than before, For memory wraps the notes In softer tones, that reach to penetrate With stronger thrust, and thus remain Immortal, beloved, never ceasing to inflate My soul with quiet peace. —Margaret Read Norwich, Norfolk, England 759 Exchanging Quilt Patterns Elaine Kimball Jones Winder Sixth Ward, Winder Stake | = One of the most practical and serviceable projects our stake homemaking leader, Carma Mineer, did for our wards, was to invite all the homemaking leaders of the | stake together to exchange quilt patterns. The banquet tables were set up in pairs. She provided a roll of heavy butcher paper, and each ward brought its own magic marker. When the day was over, every ward had exchanged every size quilt pattern, from baby to king size. Each pattern was marked for size. This is the first time our ward has had more than just a few patterns to choose from. Sewing Carol Hood Blackhurst w Sewing can be many things. It can be mending, patching, creating; it can be making over, or redesigning. Yes, sewing can be many things. It can be something plain, something fancy, something new, or something remade. But whatever it is, it is something of real accomplishment. What a thrill to see it finished, what joy and happiness! It could be a fancy new dress or just a patch on Tommy's little jeans. It is something of us, a part of body, mind, soul, and spirit. Thank goodness for sewing! TO EVERYTHING THERE! IS A SEASON You can package fresh-from-the-garden flavor The cookbook taught. | was almost afraid it would be so— But it was not! Oh, the results were nice. They'll add spice To winter hibernating— Just enough spice To hint the worth of waiting For the surprise of strawberries on the tongue, The pucker-up taste of grapes too young, The buttery crackle of the bitten cob, The splashing crunch of the apple-bob. Package fresh-from-the-garden flavor? Who would rob summer of her special savor? Or who looks for reindeer in the August sky? Not!! —Alice Brady Myers 760 Chapter 7 Maureen Taggert, a librarian, has gone Mabel Harmer to Great Britain to do genealogical work and investigate some property in Scotland to which she is joint heir. Before leaving she meets Steve Madsen and is very much attracted to him. On the boat she befriends Diane Curran who is going to England to be married. While in England she meets Robert McPherson, an artist, who is residing on the property in Scotland. S Two days after her trip to Shannon, Maureen received a letter from Steve Madsen expressing his deep disappointment that they had not been able to meet. He wrote that he had checked on the weather and planes and found that none was leaving the London. Airport until it was time for him to board his plane for Brussels. Since he had a definite appointment there it had not been possible for him to stay over. He hoped for better luck next time. What next time? Maureen wondered. It was not likely that he would be coming to Europe again in the short time that she would presumably be there. At least, that was what she would suppose. In the meantime, there was the trip to Scotland to plan and anticipate. Easter came early in the month—the first Sunday in April—and, since they were going to travel by motor Car, they were fervently hoping for good weather. "Which we must not count upon in the least," said Kitty. "T am told that it rains most of the time in Scotland." "Surely not more than here in England!" exclaimed Diane. "Oh, yes! Much more. Especially in the Highlands. But that makes it all the more beautiful. There are lakes and water- 761 October 1968 falls by the hundreds, and forests and flowers of all kinds." "All of which you can vouch for," said Julia. "In spite of the fact that you have seen none of it." "Certainly, I have been reading up on the land of my ancestral estate. And so would you, if you had any proper pride." "I can wait," said Julia calmly.."And I only hope that it is all you say." Only Maureen and the Bruce Taggart family were going. Diane had to stay with her work, since she was handling all of the correspondence now for Mrs. Markham, and Mrs. Murch would never leave home for more than a few hours under any circumstances. "What will we do with her in case we decide to make our permanent home at the castle?" asked Julia. "We'll tackle that problem when we come to it," replied her mother. "Just remember that we are a long way as yet from making any decisive move." "They began the trip, which was scheduled to take one week, on the Monday morning after Easter. They crossed the border from Carlisle, and just after driving over the Gretna Green bridge, were delighted to see an over-sized sign which bade them "Welcome to Scotland." "Isn't that charming of them?" remarked Kitty. "I'm sure the Sign was put up expressly for our benefit." "And also this next one," added her father, as he drew into the service station which proclaimed itself, ""The first petrol station in Scotland." 762 As they drove on, they saw little single-story, whitewashed cottages, each with a porch in front. At one they saw the children doffing wraps and muddy boots before entering the house. "That's what I call a great system," remarked Catherine, "an open-air mud room before one ever enters the house." "Tt just goes to show how nice and neat and clean they are," remarked Kitty, always alert to putting in a good word for her adoptive countrymen. As they drove on, they found a world of entrancing beauty. The wooded hills were green with the lush grass nourished by a plentiful rainfall. About an hour's drive from the border, they ran into a little town holding market day. The main street was crowded with booths, shoppers, and _ villagers. Bruce was having a _ difficult enough time to drive through the street and found it complicated still further when he encountered a flock of wandering sheep. To be sure, they were not alone. At the rear was the shepherd, and at his heels a pair of collie dogs. All three appeared to be more or less indifferent to the crowds, the traffic, and all else. The sheep, they seemed to think, would get through eventually, and_ the traffic would manage as _ best it could. Suddenly, however, the shepherd blew his whistle, and the dogs sprang into action, darting here and there and sending the sheep past the moving cars. They spent the night at a charming town hotel. There seemed to be a dearth of the small inns they were used to seeing in the English countryside, but the hotel supplied their needs very well indeed. "Our next stop will be Kirkwood," said Bruce, as they started out again. "And our castle!" added Kitty, ecstatically, clapping her hands. "IT wish that you' weren't expecting so much," said her father. "I'm afraid you're going to be very much disappointed. After all, you know, it is described as a ruin, and no one has lived there for a couple of decades." "Oh, but you forget that I have seen Robert McPherson's paintings. No matter how much he idealized it, the castle can't be too far different. And he did put in the broken-down wall, you know." Bruce nodded. "Yes, I know. Anyway, we shall soon see the worst—or the best." The village of Kirkwood was at the end of a long glen. It was marked with birches, yews, and: an occasional great —} beechtree. The road 7 to the castle was uphill and rough, showing that it was seldom used. "Do you think that your traveling youth will tackle this road?" Bruce asked Kitty in a mockserious voice. "Certainly," she replied. "They climb hills and mountains and everything. This will be mere child's play to them—most of them, anyway." A sharp turn in the road brought them their first view of the castle. It looked rather imposing. "TI like that," said Catherine. "But I am sure that it is putting aE If Spring Be Late its best side forward for the benefit of the traveler." All were excited by the prospect, the more so, the nearer they came and could see more of the details. For Maureen—rather to her own surprise, her greatest interest was in the cottage at the entrance to the grounds. As they came near and stopped, just inside the gate, she said, "Except for the profusion of spring flowers, it looks exactly as it does in the painting." "With the addition of the bairns standing in the doorway," said Julia. The children, a boy and a girl, quite obviously twins, came forward shyly to greet them. "You are Jeanie and Jamie, of course," said Catherine, giving a hand to each. "Is your father about?" "That he is, Ma'am," answered Jamie. While Jeanie added, "He is out digging potatoes and carrots out of the pit for our dinner." At that moment, Robert McPherson came around the corner 763 October 1968 of the cottage with a bucket of vegetables in one hand and a small shovel in the other. Dropping both, he hurried to greet them. "I didn't expect you until later in the day," he said, "when I would have been dressed properly to receive the laird of the castle." "Nonsense," said Bruce. "I am not likely to become accustomed to any such ceremony. But we have made good time traveling—and enjoyed every mile of it." "Do you think that we might walk up and get a closer view of the castle?" asked Kitty eagerly. "Yes—if you have a pair of good stout shoes. You'll find the path rather on the rough side." "Oh, I do!" she answered. "Then you might take Jamie and Jeanie for guides, and any other hardy souls who can't wait until the morrow." Julia and Bruce were the only other volunteers. Maureen and Catherine contented themselves with the view from the cottage. What they saw from that distance was intriguing—to Maureen at least. The building of gray stone was not large—as castles go. Nor were there the conical towers and high gables that she had seen pictured in other ancient buildings. The windows were angular and small when compared to modern buildings. The walls rose at three -different heights. They were partly covered with ivy and the over-all effect was rather pleasant. She had to remind herself that she still hadn't seen the other side, where an outer wall lay in ruins. She and Catherine offered to help Robert prepare the meal, but 764 he insisted that no woman could find her way around in his kitchen. Maureen was interested to see that the inside of the cottage was as charming as the outside. One could hardly believe that it had lacked a woman's touch for three years. The deep recessed windows, with their small panes, were hung with crisp white curtains. There were pots of scarlet geraniums on each window sill. The furniture was chintz-covered, and the cupboards held some interesting pewter pieces. When she commented on these, Robert said, "Much to my regret I have to confess that they are yours. They came, as did all the furnishings, with the cottage." Maureen was thoughtful. If the cottage held such treasures, what might there not be at the castle itself? She would soon know. On the morrow they would 'all go exploring. B38 ruce and the young people returned from the castle with mixed feelings. "It would take a fortune to restore it in any livable shape," he said. 'What we have is a mere pittance." "T still think it's wonderful," said Kitty loyally. "And there is a roof and plenty of sleeping space. With a place for light cooking, there would be everything we need for a youth hostel." "Kitty has this obsession about putting up a youth hostel," her father explained to Robert. "Do you know anything about them in this part of the country? We did pass a number of young people—and some not so young— walking along the highway." "Yes, indeed, there are a number of hostels now, and more are being built right along. The children and I stopped at one last summer just north of the Cairn Edward forest. Water was available, together with lavatories and a shelter. There were some simple cooking facilities. Not all travelers are on foot, you know. Some come in cars. However, the greater number of those who stop at the hostels come on foot, sometimes with half of their food, all of their utensils, and even their shelter on their backs. "Now, you see!" cried Kitty. "We can provide everything they need, and they can have the romance of staying in a castle besides." | "Yes, I see," answered Bruce. "We shall certainly think it over very seriously. We do have funds enough to put in drinking water and the lavatories, at least. The roof is already there. Part of it, anyway." With that Kitty was satisfied. In her imagination she was already living in the castle and bidding a warm welcome to footweary travelers. The little girl, Jeanie, had snuggled up to Maureen, and after dinner she asked, shyly,.""Are you coming to live with us in the cottage?" Everyone smiled and Maureen blushed slightly. A quick glance at Robert McPherson showed that he, also, was somewhat disconcerted by the question. "Not very likely," Maureen replied. "I'm sure that you belong here ever so much more than I do." "Oh, I meant to stay, also," the child continued. If Spring Be Late It was still a question, which Catherine solved by saying, "I think that we should be getting down to the village. I doubt if we should care to travel this road after dark, until we become more used to its vagaries." When they returned the next morning, the McPhersons were all in readiness to escort them to the castle. Robert held up a great ring of keys. "I rather suppose that some of these haven't been used for many a long year. I do hope that the locks work." "Otherwise," observed Julia, "we shall be forced to break into our own property." The path from the cottage to the castle was so overgrown with grass and weeds that they were forced to walk almost in single file. "How I wish that the heather were in bloom," said Maureen, with a slight sigh. "You need only wait until August and September," said Robert, "and you can see it at its best. The purple hills are a sight to behold and well worth waiting for, I can assure you. They are an artist's Elysium." "That I can well believe," Maureen agreed. As they reached the castle, and she now saw, for the first time, the extent of the "ruins," she was somewhat appalled. The entire roof was gone from most of the left wing, as well as the outer wall. It most certainly could not be repaired—not by its present owners, at any rate. The work of clearing away the fallen stones would, in itself, be a herculean task. Robert, who had been walking 765 October 1968 just ahead of her to help choose a path, was somewhat amused at her evident dismay. "Come, come," he said cheerily, "look at the rest of it. You still have a number of walls standing. Walls that may stand for a couple of centuries, in fact." She smiled and said, ""You are quite right. I shall turn my back on the ruins and turn my attention to the good." No attempt was made to open the great outer door, but asmaller one at the side yielded quite readily to one of the keys. They stepped into a long hall which was damp, dark, and cold. Even Kitty's exuberance diminished visibly. "Cheer up,''said Robert. "There is much better ahead." He led them to aside room, still holding its furniture, which was all covered with sheets. These in turn, were covered withdust. Catherine lifted one gingerly and found a tapestry-covered divan beneath: "This isn't at all bad," she said, "considering...." "Considering that it may be a hundred years old," finished Bruce. They walked through half a dozen other rooms, all large, cold, and dusty. "Be it ever so humble," quoted Julia, as they stood in the middle of what had been the master's study. Bruce began looking at one or two of the volumes on the shelves. "You know, these could be very valuable," he said. "At least, a good many of them may well be. I suspect that there are even some first editions here." "You are quite right," Robert agreed. "No doubt they have been collected over a great many years. And here is something else that may interest you," he added, going over to a small cabinet. "There is a collection of glass paper weights that could be of considerable worth." Maureen hurried over to have a closer look. "Oh, I'm sure these are of real value," she said. "I've had books on them in the library and many are very rare. I wonder that they have been left undisturbed here for so long." "Because," answered Robert, "no one could get in here without these keys. Not very easily, anyway. Castles were not built to be entered at will, you know, even with some of the walls fallen down." "That I can well believe," she agreed. "I shouldn't care to try scaling any of these walls, even if I were twenty years younger." Bruce, who had been studying more of the books, turned to Maureen and said, "You know, we might strike something of a bargain. I'll take the books, and you take the paper weights, if you are sure that they are of real value. Agreed?" "With pleasure," she answered. "T am really fascinated by these. And, I assure you, there is no question about their value. I might easily have the best of the bargain." "And I can say the same to you." He paused and held up a huge Bible. "Here is one, however, that I shall turn over to you. It seems to have a list of Taggarts long since passed away. There are hundreds of names and dates here to thrill your searching soul, I am sure." Maureen reached eagerly for the book. A quick survey proved that here was treasure indeed. There were family names and dates reaching back for three hundred years. "Oh, Bruce!" she exclaimed, "this is unbelievable. There are more names here than I have found in all my winter's work in London." "Good. Then we are both happy. I have found here a first edition of Sir Walter Scott's Lady of the Lake. But I shall never bear to part with it—even to put in running water for Kitty's youth hostel." "You shan't need to sell that or any other book," she said. "You know perfectly well that we have enough from Mrs. Murch's board bill to take care of trifling matters like that." "We hope. We have no idea, as yet, just how trifling or how large such a matter could be." "But you did say it would be my youth hostel, didn't you!" cried Kitty, realizing that for the first time her father had practically committed himself to her proposition. "Did I?" he asked nonchaIf Spring Be Late lantly. "Well—perhaps." "And while we're on that subject," Catherine said, "I think that we should have a look at the kitchen. If there is a kitchen?" She turned to Robert. "A kitchen? Oh, yes, indeed. Such a kitchen as you have probably never before set eyes upon in all your sheltered life.' He led them through another long passage. "But first," he said, "IT must show you the dining room, since it is right on the way." They entered a large room where there was a huge fireplace at one end. A long table nearly filled the center of the room. A few derelict chairs and _ stools were scattered about.. The floor was bare. "Wonderful!" cried Kitty, clapping her hands. "There is room enough for all of our travelers to eat at the same time— or at various times." "What I really wanted to show you is something else. Come this way. He led them out of the dining room, through a tiny passage, and into a small room. There was one curtained window, or opening, into the dining room. "You never in the wide world could guess what this is," he said, "so [ll tell you. It was called the lug room. Here the master of the castle could hide himself to listen to the conversation of any doubtful guest who might have gained entrance to the household." "Well, that is one room for which we shall certainly have no use," said Julia. "One never knows," said Kitty. "In time we may conduct tours, and the lug room would certainly be an attraction." 767 October 1968 They went next to the kitchen which, as Robert had warned them, was like nothing they had seen or imagined. Above a huge fireplace hung pots and pans blackened by use and by age. The floor was bare of covering and many of the boards had rotted. Even Kitty was stunned. After allowing her to gaze in dismay for afew moments, Robert said, "However, there is a smaller room—buttery, pantry, or whatever they called it—just beyond. Perhaps a cooking stove out there would serve." Kitty ran out. "It is perfect!" she cried, clapping her hands. "Of course, it isn't really, but it will be when we get through with it." "Well," said Julia, "Maureen 768 has her treasure, Father and Kitty have theirs. Now, what is there for Mummie and me?" "You'll share all that I have," said her father. "That should do for the present." "As for me," said Catherine, "T am more than satisfied. All I can think of at present is getting back to my own warm, clean, comfortable home." _ "Splendid!" cried Bruce. "Since you prefer it to the castle, we'll | go back—for the time being, most certainly." "And most equally certain," said Kitty, "we shall return." She looked about, but there was no denial. There were only indulgent smiles. (To be concluded) RECOMPENSE ''Pay me'' required earth of the proud trees Swaying on the autumn hill, "Gold | require for tomorrow's destiny." And an aspen traced her blessings on the ground With golden coins, Shivering in the rising wind, but remembering summer. '"'My life's blood,'' bowed the maple, Giving of his crimson to mingle With the pale fern at his feet, Recalling September's glory on the hill. ''My cloak,'' and the oak cast His brown cloak on the shivering grass, And his sturdy seeds, cupped in beauty, Remembering green, Recurrent on the oblique Ascendency of spring. —Dorothy J. Roberts All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. ¥ pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities May 3, 1968 Second row, at left: Muriel Price, President, La Mesa Ward Relief Society. Back row, left to right: President Joseph C. Price, Counselor in the stake presidency; Sister Price. Beginning third from right: Dorothy Bourne, Homemaking Counselor, San Diego East Stake Relief Society; Rhea Gale, President; Louise Toolson, Eudcation Counselor. Sister Gale reports: ''A luncheon was served by the stake board to begin the convention. The play, 'A Call to Benevolence,' by Luacine C. Fox, was presented, with participation by the stake Singing Mother's Chorus, directed by Gayle Moreau, stake chorister. ''Special recognition was given to the La Mesa Ward which had seventy per cent of their visiting teachers in attendance. These sisters are pictured. Throughout the year, this ward has led in attendance at visiting teacher meetings. There were 176 sisters In attendance."' 769 October 1968 Grantsville Stake (Utah) Honors Retiring Relief Society Officers April 24, 1968 Retiring members of the Grantsville Stake Relief Society board, seated, left to right: Mary Imlay; Melba Wells; Lovina Lawrence; Hannah Fraser. Standing, left to right: Nell Shirts; Florence Hayes; Lucille Anderson; Fern Wilson; Vera Elfors; Lenore Johnson; Wilma Swenson; Agenes Clark. Elba H. Brown, President, Grantsville Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Hostesses for the banquet honoring the retiring members of the stake Relief Society board who had given many long years of dedicated and loving service, were members. Of the new presidency and board members. Elba H. Brown is president; Evelyn Brown and Vessa Jacobs, counselors; and Lola Sutton, secretary-treasurer. A program was held and gifts presented to the honored guests.' Potomac Stake (District of Columbia) Spring Arts Festival April 3, 1968 Left to right: Potomac Stake Relief Society officers: Mary Maycock, social relations class leader; Marilyn G. Kerr, President; Twylla Flanders, chorister; Leila W. Horne, First Counselor; Harriet Thorne, Secretary; Elaine Haroldsen, homemaking leader. Sister Kerr reports: ''A variety of talents was displayed at our spring arts festival. It was attended by Relief Society sisters and their husbands. On display were paintings in oil, water colors, and glass; sculptured items, handwork of all varieties, numbering - about 500 items. "Earlier in the year, the cultural refinement and music leaders of the stake sponsored a music, poetry, and short story contest. The results of the contest were so gratifying that a booklet containing the poetry and short story entries was prepared and given to all in attendance. The musical entries and thirteen poems were presented as part of the program. The evening was concluded with a fashion show featuring creations by the sisters of the stake."' West Boise Stake (Idaho) Features Magazine Displays at Leadership Meeting April 8, 1968 Magazine representatives of West Boise Stake, left to right: Erma Whittaker, Eighteenth Ward; Elva Labrum, Tenth Ward; Gwen McRae, Fourteenth Ward; Ora Moore, Fifth Ward; Velma H. McClellan, Seventh Ward; lla Mae F. Dahl, stake Magazine representative; Zola Hill, Third Ward. Mary Zurcher, President, West Boise Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Magazine Department of our stake board presented an excellent and complete program at our April leadership meeting. The skit, 'An Open Door to Home Living,' by Wylene Fotheringham, which was part of the program at Relief Society Annual General Conference, was presented. "An outstanding feature of the event was the refreshments which were prepared from recipes in The Relief Society Magazine. ''A display of posters was attractively arranged for all to view after the program. We were most pleased by the presentations and the work that went into this program."' 770 October 1968 Carbon Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert, '"'Charity Never Faileth'' March 7, 1968 From left: Ruth Dart, stake organist; Janis Siggard, chorister, who directed the stake Singing Mothers in their annual concert. Mary H. Worthen, President, Carbon Stake Relief Society, reports: ''About 130 Singing Mothers participated in our annual concert, 'Charity Never Faileth.' Each of the eight wards presented a special number, and the combined stake chorus presented several moving and inspirational numbers. "An original script for the program was written and narrated by Mary Helen Powell, stake cultural refinement class leader. The entire stake board worked toward making this event successful. "At the conclusion of the concert, refreshments were served to about 300 guests. On March 17, the stake chorus provided two selections at quarterly conference." TTT egg Te TT Tt Te am STF 77 cs ah geil ellen S337 _ CUT ine esis eet renee = ot Washington Stake (District of Columbia) Relief Society Singing Mothers Present "Evening in Spring," April 26, 1968 Marion P. Mangum, President, Washington Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We were thrilled with the wonderful response our Singing Mothers received when we presented a concert, with the theme 'Evening in Spring.' ''LaJean Johnson, stake chorister, and Eleanor Price, stake organist, directed and accompanied the eighty-voice chorus, representing thirteen of the fourteen wards and branches in the stake. In addition to the Singing Mothers, the program consisted of a vocal soloist, a string trio, a quartet, and a dramatized excerpt from Thornton Wilder's 'Our Town.' This was under the direction of Marilyn Lindsay, stake cultural refinement leader, and portrayed the life of a woman through childhood, marriage, and motherhood, to gentle maturity."' I ea Cae eae a a as ies sk Canoga Park Stake (California) Visiting Teacher Convention Draws Large Crowd May 3, 1968 Table setting, in blue and gold, prepared for visiting teachers of Canoga Park Stake; entries in The Relief Society Magazine poster contest are displayed in the background. Maida Moody, President, Canoga Park Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A great deal of effort went into making our visiting teacher convention a success. Three hundred sisters were inspired by the program 'A Beacon Light and a Guiding Star,' based upon the article by Vesta P. Crawford in the September 1967 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The program consisted of narration and the stake Singing Mother's chorus. It was adapted by Maida Moody. ''A luncheon, followed by a fashion show and a festival of arts and crafts, concluded a most successful afternoon which was a delightful experience for all."' 772 Wilford Stake (Utah) Holds Annual May Festival May 9, 1968 Standing, front row, left to right: Almina Slaydon; Berenice Morris; Florence Monson; Ruthal Allred; Karma Conn; Joan Nielsen. Standing back of the first row: Elaine Fredrickson; Beverly Moore. Elna H. Palmer, President, Wilford Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A delicious luncheon was served to 550 sisters in the morning, and refreshments were served in the evening to over 450 working mothers, husbands, and young people. "The program consisted of a skit, 'First Aid for Marriage.' It depicted four women with matrimonial problems coming to the clinic to get help. Two matrimony doctors, four nurses, and three candy stripers aided them. Their counsel was: (1) to believe in your husband; (2) put your husband first; (3) have Father as the head of the home; (4) share interests together as husband and wife to keep romance in marriage. "The Singing Mothers presented several special numbers honoring mothers. An art exhibit and poem festival of original works were a highlight of the day. Demonstrations of several handicrafts were carried out." r= ene a Grant Stake (Utah) Closing Social, ''An Open Door to Home Living"' May 17, 1968 Former Grant Stake Relief Society officers, seated left to right: Ireta Stevens, Magazine representative; Sylvia Luck, chorister; Wilma Packer, organist; Claudine Despain, social relations class leader; Donna Cook, visiting teacher message leader; Pricilla Mather, spiritual living class leader; Virginia Bitner, homemaking leader; June Allen, SecretaryTreasurer; Lenore Driggs, First Counselor; Vera B. Kocherhans, President; Ruth C. Owen, Second Counselor. The remaining sisters are officers and teachers of the ten wards in Grant Stake. Sister Kocherhans reports: ''Our closing social was themed 'An Open Door to Home Living.' Specially honored were the stake and ward Magazine representatives. A lovely program was presented, emphasizing the Magazine. "Bazaar items and baked goods were sold, following the program, and a demonstration on flower making was given. 'President Castleton was present and reorganized the stake Relief Society. Margorie Nelson is the new president of Grant Stake Relief Society. 5. VEE SE 2a a ee. Ee — a ai Tulsa Stake (Oklahoma) Relief Society Presents ''Then Came the Women" for Closing Social, May 18, 1968 Members of the cast for ''Then Came the Women,"' front row, children, left to right: Audrey Huntsman; Steven Barnum; Ardith Huntsman. Second row, left to right: Vivien Romney, organist; Penelope Earl, narrator; Eve Deacon; Almeda Barnum; Norman Barnum; Sherry Roper; Rose Huntsman; Lois McLaughlin; Norma Dupree, President, Tulsa Ward Relief Society; Mary A. Robison, director. Virginia L. Jacobson, President, Tulsa Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our closing social was very successful. It included an outstanding presentation of the pageant 'Then Came the Women.' It was a very impressive performance. "We honored Sister Mary A. Robison, who directed the program, for her outstanding service for thirty-five years as an executive in Relief Society on the ward, branch, and stake basis. She was presented with a corsage and bracelet. 'A wonderful display of homemaking articles from the wards and branches was presented."' 774 oe ee On ema, yy sm, STOR nh hse OO, POLL Me SABRI alae San Jose West Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Concerts April 12, and April 26, 1968 Bernice Hutchinson, President, San Jose West Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Singing Mothers of our stake, under direction of Marie O. Gaisford, stake chorister, and accompanied by Ruth Stevens, stake organist, presented two concerts in our stake. "The first concert was in the Santa Cruz College Auditorium to an audience consisting mostly of nonmembers. The second was in the San Jose Fourth and Ninth Ward chapel. In addition to the Singing Mothers, lovely solo numbers were performed by outstanding members of the chorus who are talented musically."' Fist. Andes Mission, Trujillo Branch (Peru) Ho March 18, 1968 Ids Opening Social Left to right: Consuelo Agreda; Eva Desposorio; Maruja Bejarano; Gloria Gutierrez; Juana Castillo; Irma Isla; Juana Rodriguez; Isabel Pefharrieta, President, North District Relief Society; Bertha Di Natale; Bertha Condemarin; Raquel Cisneros; Olinda Malca, President, Trujillo Branch Relief Society; Teresa Alva; Emma Alva; Maria de Correa; Julia Pinillos; Sabina Ramirez; Maria Bejarano. Doris L. Jesperson, Supervisor, Andes Mission Relief Society, reports: ''The Trujillo Branch Relief Society held their opening social commemorating the anniversary of Relief Society. A short program of musical numbers, as well as a dramatization of the first meeting, was presented by the sisters. The Singing Mothers presented selections, and the first president of the Trujillo Branch Relief Society, Isabel Penarrieta was honored. More than 400 members and investigators were in attendance. "Under the direction of the President, Olinda Malca, the Relief Society is now preparing and selling marmalade to raise funds. A series of sewing classes have been initiated under the direction of Maria de Correa, with excellent participation. They are in the process of buying a sewing machine for further help to the sisters of the branch." SS SE a A CLASS LEADER'S GREETING The days have come when, in response To crisp October's weather, Intent on intellectual gain Again we meet together. Back to our classes and our books, Upon whose fragile pages ls found the learning of the past, The wisdom of the ages. Give thanks for books, this boon to man; Give thanks for those who wrote them, And thus preserved their choicest thoughts That we might use and quote them. Give thanks for this rich heritage That we can read, and so, Adding such wisdom to our own, In happier ways may go. —Vilate R. McAllister 777 Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 92—Adversity Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: D&C 121:1-10; 122.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman remembers in adversity the promise of the Lord ''if thou endure it well... Thou shalt triumph over all thy foes..." (D&C 121:8) and she generates renewed strength to endure. INTRODUCTION As indicated in other lessons, Sections 121, 122, and 123 are extracts from a letter written by the Prophet Joseph Smith from March 20 to 25, 1839, while he and other brethren were in Liberty Jail, Missouri. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts [revised: Salt Lake City; Deseret Book Co., 1948], Vol. III, pp. 289-305 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC.] From the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, we find the following about the contents of this letter: In the opening paragraph of the letter, the Prophet refers to the fearful crimes committed against the Saints. He hears the cries of orphans and widows; he sees the innocent blood that stains 778 the soil of the State; he contemplates the inhumanity of the people, that "shocks all nature," and "beggars and defies all description,' and then he pours out his'soul in lamentation before. His God, as Jeremiah of old wept upon the ruins of Jerusalem: "O God! Where art thou?" And he prays, "Remember thy suffering Saints." (Hyrum M. Smith and Janne M. Sjodahl, Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, rev. Ed.; Salt Lake City: Desert Book Co., 1957, p. 753.) SUFFERING SAINTS Why do members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints suffer? Why does an Almighty God permit sin, sorrow, disappointments, pain, and suffering? Some unbelievers in God have argued that because he permits suffering, he does not exist. Many others have lost faith in God because of tribulations. As in all cases, to understand the answer to life's purpose, man's relationship to God, and a multitude of other matters, the answer must come from the source of all truth—revelation. Admitting the presence of suffering and various adversities in life, a fact which is found on every side, it must be allowed that men are better able to endure' tribulation provided they know the reason for the adversity! Recognizing this truth, the Lord has provided enough information to give men strength to withstand tribulations. The Savior said that in this world there would be tribulation, but his disciples could be of good cheer, for he had overcome the world. (John 16:33.) From the treasury of revealed information, what is this message of good cheer? PREMORTAL AGREEMENT The revelations teach that all mankind lived in a spirit world before this birth. In that existence there was contention over the plan of salvation which should redeem men when they were born in an earth-life. Satan sought the honor of God, to ascend to his throne, through a proposal of his own. This plan was rejected in favor of the plan of the Father espoused by Jesus Christ, the Firstborn in the spirit world. (Moses 4: 1-4; D&C 19:36-38.) When the plan of salvation was accepted by the spirit sons and daughters of God, each person covenanted to abide by that plan. Included in the gospel of Jesus Christ is the FaLesson Department ther's plan that his sons and daughters might come to earth to receive bodies that they might live under conditions of mortality. We are here! In what kind of an environment? The kind where we learn good from evil, to struggle against evil, to preserve our lives where we may have disappointments, loss of wealth, death of a loved one, sorrow, pain, and other afflictions. It is a place, also, where we may prove ourselves to see if we will do whatsoever the Lord commands us. (Abraham 3:24-26.) Admitting the doctrine of premortality, we have the basis for understanding the purpose of afflictions and also the fact that we elected to come to the earth where these conditions would exist. In fact, we shouted with joy and sang in the contemplation that we could progress only by earth-life to the eternal life which God promised to the faithful. (Job 38:4, 7; Titus 1:2.) OPPOSITION IN ALL THINGS Among the purposes of this life is to determine whether or not we will be true to the Lord's commandments. (Abraham 3: 24-26.) Also, as The Book of Mormon says, since there is opposition in all things the opportunity to be proved is possible. (2 Nephi 2:11.) We are also here to partake of the bitter as well as the sweet. (D&C 29: 39; Moses 6:55-56.) Without these purposes, which include our free agency, there could be no existence. (D. & C. 93:30.) In the beginning, Adam and Eve received these truths that 77 October 1968 they might understand the purpose for which they became mortal. Thus they were cast out into a world of sorrow, trouble, labor, and eventual death. But they were also informed that this path was necessary to receive a fulness of joy (Moses 5:10; D&C 93:33-34.) Eve expressed her joy in this knowledge, for she could know good and evil and the _ possibility of eternal life. (Moses 5:11.) President Brigham Young gave us this information about adversities:... Lf Adam had not sinned, and if his posterity had continued upon the earth, they could not have known sin, or the bitter from the sweet, neither would they have known righteousness, for the plain and simple reason that every effect can only be fully manifested by its opposite. If the Saints could realize things as they are when they are called to pass through trials, and to suffer what they call sacrifices, they would acknowledge them to be the greatest blessings that could be bestowed upon them. But put them in possession of true principles and true enjoyments, without the opposite, and they could not know enjoyment, they could not realize happiness. They could not tell light from darkness, because they have no knowledge of darkness and consequently are destitute of a realizing sense of light. If they should not taste the bitter, how could they realize the sweet? They could not. (Journal of Discourses, 2:301-302.) ADVERSITIES AND THE FAITHFUL If one is living according to the commandments, may. We believe that he is immune to afflictions? Jacob, The Book of Mormon prophet, was told that his afflictions were consecrated for his gain. (2 Nephi 2:2.) The faithful pass through 780 tests to see if they will remain faithful. (Ether 12:6.) The greatest example of suffering was the Savior. His trials and the taking of the world's sins upon himself and eventual death on the cross, have become the example for all men. (D&C 19:15-19.) President Hugh B. Brown said the following about the Master:... We cannot think of the history of the past and bring to our minds examples of adversity without thinking of the one who stands as the central figure of all time, the Master, the one who was prophetically referred to before He was born as "man of sorrows," (Isa. 53:3), who was acquainted with grief, the one to whom Paul referred as he who learned obedience by the things he suffered. (See Heb. 5:8.) (Hugh B. Brown, Eternal Quest, Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, Inc., 1956, p. 248.) JOSEPH SMITH The Prophet Joseph Smith learned lessons in _affiction throughout his life. (D&C 172: 2.) One of the important lessons he learned is given in Section 122, a portion of the letter written in Liberty Jail. The Lord spoke peace to the Prophet's soul in a_ prophecy concerning his life. Fools would have his name in derision while the righteous would seek wisdom and counsel from his hand. Although the efforts of the wicked. Would never turn the saints against him, their influence would cause him great trouble. (D&C 122:1-4.) The Lord had reminded the Prophet that he was not like Job of old whose friends had forsaken him. (Jbid., 121: 9-10.) God said to the Prophet: If thou art called to pass through tribulation; if thou art in perils among false brethren; if thou art in perils among robbers; if thou art in perils by land or by sea; If thou art accused with all manner with false accusations; if thine enemies fall upon thee; if they tear thee from the society of thy father and mother and brethren and sisters; and if with a drawn sword thine enemies tear thee from the bosom of thy wife, and of thine offspring, and thine elder son, although but six years of age, shall cling to thy garments, and shall say, My father, my father, why can't you stay with us? O, my father, what are the men going to do with you? And if then he shall be thrust from thee by the sword, and thou be dragged to prison, and thine enemies prowl around thee like wolves for the blood of the lamb; And if thou shouldst be cast into the pit, or into the hands of murderers, and the sentence of death passed upon thee; if thou be cast into the deep; if the billowing surge conspire against thee; if fierce winds become thine enemy; if the heavens gather blackness, and all the elements combine to hedge up the way...(D&C 122:5-7.) Following this recital of great afflictions, the Lord gave the purpose of adversity in these words:... Know thou, my son, that all these things shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good. The Son of Man hath descended below them all. Art thou greater than he? (Ibid., 122:7-8.) EXPERIENCES ARE GOOD What do the scriptures reveal concerning the value or blessing of tribulations? One of the major purposes of this life is to prove ourselves that we may be worthy of the greatest measure of salvation. Trials are for our own benefit. President George Q. Cannon pointed out that, in the case of Abraham who was commanded Lesson Department to sacrifice his son Isaac, the Lord wanted to impress upon him a lesson which he could obtain in only this way. It was not for God's benefit that this was done, because he knew what Abraham would do. (D&C 38:2.) So also with others who undergo trials, it is for their own good that they may know for themselves. (Gospel Truth, Discourses and Writings of President George Q. Cannon, compiled by Jerreld L. Newquist; Salt Lake City: Zion's Book Store, 1957; Vol. 1, p. 113.) Calamities mentioned in sacred history have ultimately been blessings. The fall of Adam and Eve brought forth opportunities for God's spirit children to receive bodies and to prove themselves. The great suffering of Christ and his crucifixion were calamities, but man was redeemed from death and _ hell by that atoning sacrifice. The scattering of Israel throughout the world sprinkled the blood that believes—that many nations might partake of the gospel plan. The history of the Nephites is one of trials, calamities, and sufferings, but through it all, the experiences gained brought strength and developent. Elder Orson F. Whitney asks this question and answers it: To whom do we look, in days of grief and disaster, for help and consolation? Who are these friendly neighbors gathered in today? They are men and women who have suffered, and out of their experience in suffering they bring forth the riches of their sympathy and condolences as a_ blessing to those now in need. Could they do this had they not suffered themselves...?... We go to men and women of thought 781 October 1968 and sympathy, men and women who have suffered themselves and can give us the comfort that we need. Is not this God's purpose in causing his children to suffer? He wants them to become more like himself. God has suffered far more than man ever did or ever will, and is therefore the great source of sympathy and consolation. (Improvement Era; Vol. 22, Nov. 1918, p. 7.) Class Discussion By way of summary, what points have been made in this lesson that sugest the reason for adversities? "ART THOU GREATER THAN HE?" Although adversities are present in this world, and they have their spiritual meaning in our lives, it is not contemplated in the gospel plan that because the Savior died for mankind that the saints must give their lives as martyrs. It is true, however, that some of the saints may be required to give their lives in defense of the truth. (D&C 103:27-28.) On the other hand, no man will be required to suffer as the Savior suffered, for no sacrifice would be as great as his. (Ibid.,19:16-19.) AFFLICTIONS AND PUNISHMENT The Prophet Joseph Smith taught that it is a false idea to believe that the saints will escape all the judgments—disease, pestilence, war, etc., of the last days; consequently, it is an unhallowed principle to say that these adversities are due to transgression. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Compiled by Joseph Fielding Smith; Salt Lake City: ninth printing, 1956, p. 162.) 782 President Joseph F. Smith taught that it is a feeble thought to believe that the illness and affliction that come to us are attributable either to the mercy or the displeasure of God... Sometimes we are prone to charge God with causing our afflctions and our troubles; but if we could see as God sees, if we could understand as he understands, if we could trace the effects back to the cause, and that truly, by the spint of correct understanding, we would unquestionably discover that our troubles, or suffering, or affliction are the result of our own indiscretion or lack of knowledge, or of wisdom. (Gospel Doctrine, Sermons and Writings of Joseph F. Smith, ninth ed., Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1952, p. 57.) When commandments are not obeyed, the penalties of the law then follow. (D&C 130: 20-21.) The saints in Missouri were commanded to live the law of consecration and to redeem Zion, but because of disobedience to commandments, the Lord said they were afflicted, persecuted, and driven from the land. The chastening hand of the Lord fell upon them that they might learn obedience. They were not to be cast off completely, but they would be remembered in the day of mercy. (D&C 101: 1-9.) AFFLICTIONS AND REPENTANCE In these last days various tribulations are present. The fact that they are known widely is one of the signs of the approaching end. (D&C 29:14-20: 45: 28:34.) Should a member of the Church seek to understand these calamitous events as God has revealed their purpose, or think of them only in terms of an immediate perspective? God's laws and purposes are eternal. President Joseph F. Smith gave the following reasons for natural calamities: (1) to quicken people's devotion to _ others; and (2) to be schoolmasters to teach people to prepare themselves by righteous living for the second coming of Christ. (Gospel Doctrine, pp. 54-55.) IMPLEMENTATION Premortally, the Lord presenteda plan which provided an opportunity for his spirit children to receive the experience of an earth life. In that life they were to partake of the bitter as well as the sweet. The fact that pain, sorrow, discouragement, and loss of loved ones in death would be a part of that experience, would nevertheless be for their good. With this knowledge of what would be, the children of God willingly accepted the opportunity to come to earth because it would provide the way by which they might eventually, if faithful, become as their Eternal Father. Lesson Department In order that earth's inhabitants might be successful, the plan of salvation included the opportunity for them to learn of their premortality, the purpose of life, and also the reality of the hereafter. With faith in the word of the Lord, the saint who has accepted these truths is strengthened against adversities. The testimony borne by the Holy Ghost to the soul of the saint also gives strength to withstand the trials of life. The important truth about adversity is the effect it has upon the person. President David O. McKay said: Today there are those who have met disaster, which almost seems defeat, who have become somewhat soured in their natures; but if they stop to think, even the adversity which has come to them may prove a means of spiritual uplift. Adversity itself may lead toward and not away from God and spiritual enlightenment; and __privation may prove a source of strength if we can but keep the sweetness of mind and spirit. (David O. McKay, Treasures of Life, Compiled: by Claire Middlemiss; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1962, pp. 107-108.) SUDDENLY AWARE He steadied her arm, and their glances were bent For a long, searching moment, intense and intent Upon one perfect snowflake that lay on her sleeve, While awareness of joy come alive at the touch And the wonderful wonder of having so much To be shared and in which to believe. —Ilris W. Schow 783 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 4—We Are to Be Compassionate Toward the Afflicted Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 OBJECTIVE: To help us remember that compassion blesses the giver and the receiver. She was such a darling baby. Everyone loved her. All rejoiced when she took her first steps. When she grew old enough to run in the sun, with the wind ruffling her golden hair into a halo, she was a thing of beauty. She was nearly old enough for school when one became aware of an occasional stumble or odd break in the rhythm of her walk. Gradually, heartbreakingly, her condition worsened. The doctors grew silent. They knew of no cure for her crippling disease. As she lags farther and farther behind her playmates and they outrun her, she begins to be avoided. They do not choose her until the last, when games are played. When parties are given, she is often not included. Soon will come the dating years. "Lord, bless the sick and afflicted." How often do we pray thus and teach our children to do likewise? What do we and they mean? Who are the afflicted and how is the Lord to bless them? Is he to do it all and we to turn away, or do we, with him, have a part in solving these ills of mankind? How are we to help? 784 Do we contribute money only and smugly feel justified? If we could walk a year in the shoes of the afflicted, how would our lives change? How can we help ourselves and our children do this in imagination, so that all of us will be sensitive and kind? How can we set an effective Christian example to our children? How can we teach them, early, continuously, to accept the afflicted into the circle of their lives, where they will be a part of the normal wholeness of life? How can we help them to look beyond the afflictions to the soul of their friend, to the courage, patience, charm, and abilities that lie deep within? How will they learn that the afflicted, in their needs and inner feelings do not differ from others? Adolescence and the dating years are difficult enough. Will our children be especially kind, thoughtful, considerate, loving of the afflicted, and bring them: into full fellowship with them? The afflicted are the hurt ones, often unhappy, sad, irritable, angry, hopeless, sullen, bitter, despondent, rejected, and demanding. If we have empathy we will find specific ways to help. Are they hurt? Then, we are the comforters. Are they irritable and demanding? We help them find peace. Are they angry? We search with them for understanding. Are they unhappy and sullen? We teach them to be glad. Are they bitter? We bring Lesson Department healing love. Are they despondent, despairing, and _ hopeless? We lead the way to faith. My son, peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment; And then, if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high; thou shalt triumph over all thy foes. Thy friends do stand by thee. (D&C 121:7-9.) (Italics added.) HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 4—Let's Be More Courteous Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show how acting courteously in our homes and in public and being reverent in sacred places are the marks of a cultured person. INTRODUCTION When we hear someone say of another, "She is a person of culture and refinement," we feel that a high compliment has been paid —a compliment we would all like to deserve. It is one which is within our reach if kindness, love, and consideration for others are made a natural, habitual, and consistent part of our lives. These are the inward qualities which are outwardly revealed in acts of courtesy and good manners. Those of us who think of courtesy and good manners as being separate and apart from our everyday behavior—an on-and-off sort of conduct—fail to realize their underlying value and significance. In her book Highlights on the Life of President David O. McKay, Janet M. Morrell says, "There were no company manners in the McKay home. Father and Mother were as courteous to each other and to their children when only the members of the family were present, as when the most respected guests were in the house." In a home where there is a manifestation of kindness, love, and consideration for others, courtesy finds its abode. Courtesy ts kindness. Printed recently in an article by Elizabeth Post in the Deseret News were two lines which many of us remember from our childhood: 785 October 1968 Politeness is to do and say The kindest things in the kindest way. HOW SHALL WE SHOW COURTESY IN OUR HOMES? I. At the table: (Good table manners are intended to make dining a pleasant, happy experience for everyone concerned. ) A. In having Mother and girls seated first. B. In asking for and passing of food. C. In: eating—avoiding large bites or talking with mouth full; using napkin and_ utensils properly. D. In remaining seated until the meal is completed or until excused. E. In' showing appreciation for preparation and serving of food. (One lovely mother says, "Very few meals in our twenty years of married life have finished without my husband's thanking me for the fine food. From his example the children respond in the same manner." II. On the telephone: A. In answering or in calling for a number or person. B. In avoiding over-long conversations. C. In listening only when the call is personal. D. In relaying messages. E. In being gracious in voice and manner. III. To each other: A. In being tactful and considerate of feelings. B. In showing interest by listening when spoken to. C. In respecting each other's privacy and property. (Clothes, personal possessions, rights, etc.) D. In expressing appreciation for favors. E. In showing respect and obedience to family law and order. F. In disciplining oneself in voice and manner—avoiding display of temper and quarreling. G. In controlling one's moods. 786 HOW SHALL WE SHOW COURTESY IN PUBLIC? I. To one's neighbors: A. In avoiding gossip. B. In helping in times of need. C. In expressing appreciation. II. On the street: A. In observing laws and rules when driving. (Some people show more discourtesy when driving than they do at any other time.). Incrossingstreets—ifa pedestrian. B C. In keeping all public laws of cleanliness and decency. III. In stores and markets: In expressing thanks to sales people or clerks for personal help. In handling merchandise or foodstuffs. In avoiding selfish behavior— pushing, crowding, etc. In using elevators and escalators. In observing rights of others in every situation. AO Q BP} IV. > t work: In being prompt. In observing company rules. In giving good and full service to employer or employee, as the case may be. In showing consideration to friend or stranger. OW > 0 REVERENCE IN SACRED PLACES IS A MARK OF COURTESY It would be well for each of us to observe the rules of courtesy and good manners whenever we _enter sacred places whether they be our own chapels and temples or the hallowed spots of others not of our faith. The degree of our love and reverence for our Heavenly Father is evidenced by our behavior when we visit these sacred places. It is asad commentary that the adults are more often the offenders in this regard than are the children. Can we afford not to set the right example? CONCLUSION Since courtesy and good manners are the outward sign of the Lesson Department virtues that reside within us, we owe it to ourselves as well as to those with whom we associate to exemplify these qualities by word and deed. Only then can we deserve to be called persons of "culture and refinement." SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 4—The Latter-day Saint Woman in Today's World Alberta H. Christensen (Reference Immortality and Eternal Life From the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizadek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 OBJECTIVE: To consider issues which present new challenges to the Latter-day Saint woman and to suggest ways of meeting some of them. Lesson Follow-up Have a sister report 3-4 minutes, on how the lesson "Lighting the Way" influenced her Christmas. INTRODUCTION This lesson deals with some aspects of today's world which may present problems and new challenges to the Latter-day Saint woman. The objective indicates that some ways of meeting certain of these problems will be suggested. In this respect this lesson and the following one are closely allied. The following lesson may be rightly considered as a continuation of this one. THE WORLD TODAY. Today's world is a world of paradox. On one hand _ there are complexity, apprehension, confusion, even disillusionment. On the other hand there are marvelousachievements, innumerable opportunities, and the extent to which these situations affect the Latter-day Saint woman depends largely upon her circumstances, environment, and attitude. 787 October 1968 Class Involvement Discussion Questions 1. What in your opinion is the greatest challenge facing the Latter-day Saint mother today? 2. Whatsituations offer greatest challenge to the Latter-day Saint woman of middle years, with no children in the home? 3. What specific situations are a challenge to the Latter-day Saint woman (a) as a neighbor; (b) as a friend? CONSIDER THE WORLD The opinions of other Latterday Saint women relative to the problems and challenges of today may be more meaningful after we have taken an over-all view of today's world, asking ourselves, "What is itlike, this wonderful, yet perplexing world?" We know that in today's world there are probably many more people upon the earth than in any former period in the world's history. One million people are added each week to the earth's total population. (1968 statistic.) There are more people to be fed, more to be clothed, more to travel from one place to another. We read that approximately seventy per cent of the world's population live in urban centers. More people mean more situations involving human relationships; more people living in cities introduces another dimension to these relationships. We know that general advances in the field of the sciences, in manufacturing technology and education have produced a highly industrialized world economy. A closer view of the present may help us recognize the exciting wonders and the _ undesirable situations in today's' world. As we enumerate the following 788 factors which make today's world stimulating and complex, we set the stage for this lesson. We also understand more easily how human relationships are affected by conditions in today's world. AREAS OF EXPANDING ACHIEVEMENT In today's expanding achievements we have: 1. Made great strides in medical knowledge and techniques, even to the transplanting of some human organs. 2. Explored outer space, even to photographing the surface of the moon and utilizing acquired information. 3. Widened horizons of knowledge through education and extensive reading material. 4. Made new archeological discoveries, unearthing information regarding past civilizations. 5. Explored the depths of the oceans. 6. Extended methods and speed of transportation. 7. Established programs to increase literacy, especially in underdeveloped countries. 8. Developed improved agricultural methods for better and greater productivity. (Others may be suggested.) AREA OF HUMAN RELATIONSHIP In the area of human relationship we have (unhappily so): 1. Poverty and famine in many parts of the world. 2. International rivalries and _ political intrigue. 3. Racial unrest in many countries. 4. Conflict between labor and management. 5. Ruioting in cities throughout the world and various manifestations of disregard for law. 6. An increase in juvenile delinquency and adult crimes. 7. War and rumors of war. 8. A decrease of spiritual faith even to a repudiation of religion in some areas of the world. To The Class Leader An oral enumeration or chalkboard listing of the following will call to mind the factors which make today's world stimulating and complex and set the stage for this lesson. It is suggested that the discussion be focused upon the human involvement situations. This is an_ over-simplified panoramic view of today's world. Some areas are fraught with extreme peril, with trouble and complication. It is the world in which the Latter-day Saint woman lives today. She knows that she is living in a world of rapid change, of temptation, conflict, and innumerable problems. To say that these are not troublesome times is not to speak realistically. But the picture is not altogether grim, for there are countless opportunities for rewarding experiences and personal growth, and innumerable opportunities for service to others. There are innumerable intelligent, capable adults of good will, and innumerable children—innocent, gifted and of great promise. Moreover, the gospel of Jesus Christ has been restored to earth, now— in our day. Its teachings, its guidance, and the blessings of the Holy Priesthood are here for our benefit. Speaking of the spiritual darkness' that preceded, and of this_ restoration, President Clark states: But God's love and mercy was again to be manifested. Men were not to be left without the knowledge of the essentials of the plan of salvation, nor without opportunity to enjoy the blessings of a nghteous life under the reign of the God-given Gospel plan. That knowledge and that plan were to be restored to the earth, for it had been again lost, as it had been after Adam, after Enoch, after AbraLesson Department ham, after Moses. And so it has been. (J. Reuben Clark, Jr., On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1950, pp. 107-108; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 21.) This restored gospel is an allimportant part of the Latterday Saint woman's present world. THE MORE IMMEDIATE SCENE Irrespective of world conditions, some of which greatly endanger the stability and happiness of home life, a mother's general responsibilities to her children and adult associates remain constant. It is a major duty of the mother (shared with the father) to help the child become sufficiently independent to meet the world outside the home. Experts in the field of child development and family relationships remind us that the child should, from the earliest weeks, have a feeling of security. He should have the emotional support of knowing that he is loved. With opportunity to make up his mind on small matters in childhood, he will thus develop the ability to make greater decisions in later years. As the Latter-day Saint mother of today sees confusion about her; as she realistically considers that life involves sickness, and sorrow, and death, she searches for ways to help the child develop courage and strength to meet the storms of life. If the line of communication is kept affectionately open, she will find wise ways of helping him to develop that strength. One of the most important of ways 789 October 1968 is to help him know that his Heavenly Father is mindful of the child and his problems and that his earthly parents are ever willing to give counsel and comfort. There are many other mother-to-child responsibilities which remain constant regardless of changing world conditions. WHAT SOME LATTER-DAY SAINT WOMEN SAY With the foregoing enumeration of world conditions in mind, we may consider the comments of some Latter-day Saint women relative to problem situations which some of these conditions create for them. Although each woman needs to resolve her own problem, comments of suggestion often may be helpful. Woman One states: I find it a great challenge, in the light of some present day conditions, such as psychological and social pressures, even opposing views on religion, some quite atheistic, to keep my own "values straight" and my beliefs firm. Question: What advice do you have for this woman? Comment: To be in the world, making use of its opportunities and enjoying its advantages, and yet be "not of the world" requires clear thinking and courage of conviction. The Latter-day Saint woman who feels that this is her particular problem may well remember the assurance obtained through prayer, the guidance and promise of scripture, and the available counsel of the priesthood through appointed leadership of the Church. Activity in organizations of the Church strengthens one's testimony of its divinity. Woman Two: My problem is how to make my life 790 meaningful, now that children move so far away when they marry. I cannot hope to see them or the grandchildren oftener than once or twice a year. How can I build a tangible relationship with my grandchildren? When I was young, my grandmother lived in the same town. She was important to me and I always felt that I was to her. I want to feel useful and needed. Question: If you were this woman how would you meet this problem? Comment: Fortunately for women of middle years with available time, there are many important and needed services within the framework of the Church. Genealogical work for one's own family, and active affiliation with Relief Society are examples. Volunteer work in hospitals, and neighborhood and community service programs also need women who are willing to serve. Woman Three: I am a mother with young children. They were wanted and are loved. However, the numerous opportunities for professional training and gainful employment tei:. Pt me to go out of the home and earn money. I don't need to work, but I do not enjoy the routine of house-, work. Question: If you were this woman what would you do? Comment: Dr. Blaine R. Porter states: It is a privilege to live with children. From a Latter-day Saint point of view, our children are also God's children who are lent to us for a little while, during which time we have the pleasure of their company and responsibility of guiding and training them properly. Stop and think of the confidence and trust which God must have in us to allow us the privilege of being responsible for his children. (Blaine R. Porter, The Latter-day Saint Family, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1966, p. 267.) President Clark often refers to the importance and responsibility of mothers toward their children. The homemaking discussions in Relief Society also may convince the _ doubtful mother that housework need not be a dreary routine. Woman Four: My problem is one of frustration, resulting from today's accelerated tempo of living. I feel pulled and pushed in every direction by my _ overscheduled days. I long for the slower pace of yesteryears. The challenge for me, therefore, is to eliminate this feeling of frustration. Question: If you were this woman, how would you meet her problem? Comment: Henry David Thoreau said, '"Simplify!" The Latter-day Saint woman may need to appraise and decide which values are of most importance to her and her family. Having made such an appraisal, she may more wisely eliminate certain activities, commitments, and even commodities which encumber her life. More poise, more patience, more time with the family may be the rewarding result. Woman Five: I find it difficult to maintain an attitude of optimism since conversation, newspapers, and television present an almost constant fare of problem situations, and violence. My challenge is not to let this feeling of today's frustrations be reflected in the atmosphere of our home. Question: Were you this woman, what would you do to solve this problem? Comment: The Latter-day Saint woman may take courage in the fact that today is of little moment in the long-range view of the eternities, and in the promise that the gospel will never again be taken from the earth. Activity in the Church Lesson Department for all family members and adherence to gospel teachings will help replace apprehension with faith and optimism. OTHER SPECIFIC PROBLEMS Among conditions most disturbing to Latter-day Saint mothers today is the pressure _ of irresponsible adults who would exploit the innocence of youth for money. Manifestations of such pressure are the distribution of undesirable, even pornographic reading material, and the sale of harmful drugs. Although using or possessing drugs is illegal, they are available and vigorously "pushed" in' many high schools and colleges. No mother can afford to abdicate her parental responsibility and remain complacent on this matter. Tomorrow depends upon the energy, talent, and character of today's children. This is an area where an alert mother, and good communication between child and parent may prevent a problem from developing. Information regarding the effects of harmful drugs is readily available. Family Home Evening discussions may pre-influence young children, and teachers also may help teenage children to understand that no hallucinogenic drugs are safe. All of them involve danger. An unemotional discussion between children and their parents relative to the dangerous use of drugs, in which the children are given the sobering facts regarding this modern day evil, may be warning enough. Parents may well be cautioned regarding the personal use of drugs unless prescribed by a physician. 791 October 1968 SUMMARY Latter-day Saint woman, this is your world today: spiritual enlightenment, beauty, opportunity, progress; confusion, temptation, uncertainty, and sin. Yet, it is a wonderful day in which to live, this dispensation of the fulness of times, if you receive and will bestow compassion, and the healing of love, if you will wear the whole armor of faith. For Home-Doing Review your major problems. Make some effort toward solving at least one of them. LPS SSS CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 3—''The Comfort of Faith'' Dr. Bruce B. Clark Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 4 The World Around Us, Section Three By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas ''The saddest thing that can befall a soul is to lose faith in God...." —Alexander Smith Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1969 OBJECTIVE: To emphasize that a life built around faith brings to a woman greater happiness than a life without faith can bring. Commentary on musical selections by Clawson Cannon, Assistant Dean of College of Fine Arts, Brigham Young University: The topic chosen for Lesson 3—The Comfort of Faith—immediately suggests vocal or choral music that sets texts dealing with faith. Since we have attempted to include in Our recordings musical selections that are well known tothe sisters, | thought It well to include in this discussion three familiar hymns as sung by the Mormon Tabernacle Choir. Each of the texts, while dealing with faith, points out different aspects of faith in our daily living. 792 Musical Selections 1. Faith of Our Fathers! Living Still Text by Frederick W. Faber, Music by H. F. Hemy Faith of our fathers! Living still In spite of dungeon, fire and sword: O how our hearts bear high with joy Whene'er we hear that glorious word! Faith of our fathers! Holy faith! We will be true to thee till death! 2. | Know That My Redeemer Lives Text by Samuel Medley, Music by Lewid D. Edwards 3. My Shepherd Will Supply My Need Text is from the 23rd Psalm, Music by Virgil Thompson INTRODUCTION TO LITERATURE LESSON During the past four years in this series, we have extensively sampled the literature of faith. (See Out of the Best Books, Volume 1, Section 2, entitled "Faith in God and Man," pp. 47-107; Volume 1, Section 6, entitled "Facing Death," pp. 441-482; and Volume 3, Section 6, entitled "The Substance of Faith," pp. 239-282.) All of us through reading, thought, experience, and observation know that faith as a principle is very broad. It includes not only faith in God and his eternal plans but also faith in humanity, faith in husbands, wives, and children, faith in friends, faith in ourselves and our abilities, faith in the future, faith that right will ultimately triumph over wrong. Much has been published exploring faith and its lack; and great men of all kinds have commented upon one or another aspect of faith. For example, William Faulkner Lesson Department in his Nobel Prize Acceptance Speech of 1950 expressed his faith in man and the future: I decline to accept the end of man. It is easy enough to say that man is immortal simply because he will endure.... I believe that man will not merely endure; he will prevail. He is immortal, not because he alone among creatures has an inexhaustible voice, but because he has a soul, a_ spirit capable of compassion and sacrifice and endurance. Andmany yearsearlier Thomas Carlyle in Sartor Resartus, using typically vivid language, described the power of faith to endure: For man's well-being, faith is properly the one thing needful; how, with it, martyrs, otherwise weak, can cheerfully endure the shame and the cross; and without it, worldlings puke-up their sick existence, by suicide, in the midst of luxury. Obviously, from among the world's thousands of poems and stories of faith, we can explore here only a sample of them. Perhaps the best place to begin is with the Psalms in the Bible, which almost without exception are lovely poems of faith. Two of the loveliest of the Psalms (songpoems) of David in the Old Testament are Psalms 8 and 23. Read them for the loveliness and faith they contain, acknowledging the power and the love of God. No analysis or commentary seems needful; they speak beautifully to all levels of readers. '""A PSALM OF LIFE"' BY HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW Tell me not, in mournful numbers, Life is but an empty dream!— For the soul is dead that slumbers, And things are not what they seem. 798 October 1968 Life is real! Life is earnest! And the grave is not its goal; Dust thou art, to dust returnest, Was not spoken of the soul. Not enjoyment, and not sorrow, Is our destined end or way; But to act, that each tomorrow Find us farther than today. Art is long, and Time is fleeting, And our hearts, though stout and brave, Still, like muffled drums, are beating Funeral marches to the grave. In the world's broad field of battle, In the bivouac of Life, Be not like dumb, driven cattle! Be a hero in the strife! Trust no Future, howe'er pleasant! Let the dead Past bury its dead! Act,—act in the living Present! Heart within, and God o'erhead! Lives of great men all remind us We can make our lives sublime, And, departing, leave behind us Footprints in the sands of time; Footprints, that perhaps another, Sailing o'er life's solemn main, A forlorn and shipwrecked brother, Seeing, shall take heart again. Let us, then, be up and doing, With a heart for any fate; Still achieving, still pursuing, Learn to labor and to wait. DISCUSSION OF ''A PSALM OF LIFE"' For over a century one of the most popular poems of faith has been "A Psalm of Life" by the American poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow (1807-1882). Although rather out of fashion today, it won masses of new readers for poetry in generations past, and continues to find a responsive appeal in the hearts of many people. Emphasis in the poem, written when Longfellow was only 31, is upon the importance of robust living, with high goals and high energy to achieve them—that is, upon faith in man and his ability to accomplish. | Underlying this emphasis, however, is a strong faith in God and a God-controlled universe. For Discussion What elements in this poem would tend to make it more popular among readers in years past than it may be today? "CROSSING THE BAR" BY ALFRED LORD TENNYSON Sunset and evening star, And one clear call for me! And may there be no moaning of the bar,! When I put out to sea, But such a tide as moving seems asleep, Too full for sound and foam, When that which drew from out the boundless deep Turns again home. Twilight and evening bell, And after that the dark! And may there be no sadness of farewell, When I embark; For though from out our bourne of Time and Place The flood may bear me far, I hope to see my Pilot face to face When I have crossed the bar. DISCUSSION OF "CROSSING THE BAR" Best known of Tennyson's short poems is "Crossing the Bar," written in 1889 when he was 81 years old. The poem lives by its lyrical loveliness, and by the quality of its faith—not a sure knowledge, such as a few people have, but a firm hope, which many people share. A few lThe "bar" here referred to is an underwater sand uprising at the mouth of a harbor or river. There is an old folk superstition that the tide moans in grief as it passes over a sandbar when someone has died or is about to die. 794 ARE YOU STORING WHEAT? Don't let it spoil! Keep it on a regular turnover basis. We suggest an ELECTRIC ALL-GRAIN Available in two sizes Easy terms - Write for information Headquarters for breadmixers and Corona Wheat Mills SMITHFIELD IMPLEMENT CO. 99 North Main Smithfield, Utah 84335 HAWAIIAN ALOHA WEEK TOUR October 13-27 ROSE PARADE TOURS December 26-January 2 Call or Write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 Lesson Department days before Tennyson died, in 1892, he instructed that this poem should end all editions of his poetry—a request that has seldom been violated. "UPHILL" BY CHRISTINA ROSSETTI Does the road wind uphill all the way? Yes, to the very end. Will the day's journey take the whole long day? From morn to night, my friend. But is there for the night a restingplace? A roof for when the slow dark hours begin. May not the darkness hide it from my face? You cannot miss that inn. Shall I meet other wayfarers at night? Those who have gone before. Then must I knock, or call when just in sight? They will not keep you standing at that door. Shall I find comfort, travel-sore and weak? Of labor you shall find the sum. Will there be beds for me and all who seek? Yea, beds for all who come. DISCUSSION OF "UPHILL" Althoughwrittenallegorically, the meaning of this poem will be clear to all readers. Note that it is a conversation poem, with the questions in the first and third lines of each stanza asked by one person and the answers in the second and fourth lines given by another, wiser person— as if the Savior himself were giving reassurance. Class Discussion What is the full meaning of the line "Of labor you shall find the sum." 795 October 1968 TWO POEMS BY CAROL LYNN PEARSON Of the Mysteries I know only as much of God and the world As a creature with two eyes must; But what I do understand I love, And what I don't understand, I trust. Day-Old Child My day-old child lay in my arms. With my lips against his ear I whispered strongly, ""How I wish— I wish that you could hear; "T've a hundred wonderful things to say (A tiny cough and a nod), Hurry, hurry, hurry and grow So I can tell you about God." My day-old baby's mouth was still And my words only tickled his ear. But a kind of a light passed through his eyes, And I saw this thought appear: "How I wish I had a voice and words; I've a hundred things to say. Before I forget I'd tell you of God— I left Him yesterday." DISCUSSION OF TWO POEMS BY CAROL LYNN PEARSON As these two tiny poems delightfully illustrate, Mrs. Pearson has a combination of delicate word-usage with stimulating word-meanings that are both charming in their simplicity and startling in their provocativeness. The poems speak for themselves. "SONNET 29" BY WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE When in disgrace with fortune and men's eyes I all alone beweep my outcast state, And trouble deaf heaven with my bootless cries, And look upon myself, and curse my fate, Wishing me like to one more rich in hope, Featured like him, like him with friends possessed, Desiring this man's art, and that man's scope, With what I most enjoy contented least; 796 New Craft Medium ~ Ra Nae's Plastic Dip Free Instructions Home of complete handicraft supplies Write for new 1968 Catalog—50¢ Utah Craft & "Novelty~ 3220 South State Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84115 486-1017 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates Effective June 1, 1968 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of, service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly tndex Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include #postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah f Zoneland2 __ 55 @Zone5 _.__..75 Zone3 __-_ 60 Zone6 ____.-.85 Zone4 __._..65 Zone7 __.--.95 Zone8_. - - -1.05 j = PESERET [—REws PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 Yet in these thoughts myself almost despising, Haply I think on thee,—and then my state, Like to the lark at break of day arising From sullen earth, sings hymns at heaven's gate; For thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings That then I scorn to change my state with kings. DISCUSSION OF SHAKESPEARE'S SONNET 29 This sonnet, is included here to emphasize that one kind of faith is faith in other people. Just thinking of a beloved person, says Shakespeare, can lft one out of a mood of despondency. Some readers may feel that Shakespeare exaggerates' the power of love and friendship (in Shakespeare's case the person referred to in the sonnet was a cherished friend); other readers, having known the healing power of love and friendship, will see more meaning in Shakespeare's words. INTRODUCTION TO "WORK WITHOUT HOPE" Up to this point in this lesson we have been exploring various kinds and degrees of faith. Not all literature, of course, expresses faith. To illustrate the despair that results from lack of faith, we turn to "Work Without Hope" by Samuel Taylor Coleridge (1772-1834). Coleridge's problem was not that he did not believe in God, for he was a devout Christian, nor that he did not believe in life after death, for he did, but that he did not believe in himself. "The fearful unbelief is unbelief in yourself," said Carlyle. Lesson Department Bw Sw MUSIC COMPANY 'Singing Mothers"' ''Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Instruments Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. MOVED ~NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 Coleridge was a brilliant and gifted man, in many ways the most brilliant and gifted writer of the English romantic movement. But he was also beset with terrible personal insecurity, unhappiness, and lack of self-discipline which resulted in agonizing drug addiction, insomnia, and wrecking of health, both physical and mental. In a moment of despair a few years before his death he wrote "Work Without Hope," one of the most beautiful yet depressive little poems ever written. Here we feel the suffering anguish of a man who has lost faith in himself. Work Without Hope by Samuel Taylor Coleridge All Nature seems at work. Slugs leave their lair— The bees are stirring—birds are on the wing— 797 October 1968 And Winter slumbering in the open air, Wears on his smiling face a dream of Spring! And I the while, the sole unbusy thing, Nor honey make, nor pair, nor build, nor sing. Yet well I ken the banks where amar-. Anths blow, Have traced the fount whence streams of nectar flow. Bloom, O ye amaranths! Bloom for whom ye may, For me ye bloom not! Glide, rich streams, away! With lips unbrightened, wreathless brow, I stroll: And would you learn the spells that drowse my soul? Work without Hope draws nectar in a sieve, And Hope without an object cannot live. CONCLUSION The preceding material in this lesson is excerpted from Section 3 of Volume 4 of Out of the Best Books. In addition to these excerpts, the section contains fuller commentaries, notes, and questions for discussion on the selections here printed plus the following additional selections, which explore more fully some significant aspects of faith and its lack: 1. Quotation from John F. Kennedy 2. A printing of Psalms 8 and 23 from the Old Testament 3. The morning song from Pippa Passes by Robert Browning 4. "Easter Wings" by George Herbert 5. "Sunflower" by William Blake 6. Three additional poems by Carol Lynn Pearson 7. "Ode to the West Wind" by Percy Bysshe Shelley 8. "The Darkling Thrush" by Thomas Hardy 9. "Invictus" by William Ernest Henley 10., The short story "Christ in Flanders" by Honore de Balzac Only the poems by Carol Lynn Pearson are still under copyright restrictions. All other selections may be reprinted to whatever extent a teacher may desire. Travel Agency FIESTA TOURS MEXICO Personally Escorted Only $359 from Provo, Utah—March 7 to 23, 1969 ° Enjoy Summer Sun in Fabulous Acapulco * Quaint Taxco * Majestic Mexico City * Beautiful Guadalajara Puebla © Mazatlan and other cities Included: All Transportation Good Hotels—Fine Food & Safe Water 12 Meals Famous Railway in the sky Entertainment—Bull Fights, Folklorico Ballet, Holiday on Skis, Ocean Cruise, Famous High Divers, Xochimilco, Dancing, etc., Deep Sea Fishing (optional) 13 Archaeological Zones—Pyramids, Temple of, Quetzalcoatl, Tula, Zochicalco, etc. ERMA & ARNOLD WHITE — YOUR ''TRAV-A-LEADERS"' Specializing in Mexican Tours Write: 1795 East 3170 South © Salt Lake City, Utah 84106 © Phone: 484-9752 aa cast J 798 a e. We seek after these things." Joseph Smith THINGS LOVELY eA record for spiritual people Side 1 Side 2 The Holy City Praise Be to Thee The Pilgrims' Song | Walked Today Where Jesus More Holiness Give Me Walked The Lost Chord Abide With Me; 'Tis Eventide If Christ Should Come Tomorrow The Lord's Prayer A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief Sung by: Melva Niles Barborka and Robert Peterson Alfredo Antonini and Orchestra Mono/Stereo $5.00 B. T. RECORDS Burning Tree Rd., Greenwich, Conn. Or _ ZCMI Dept Store, BYU Bookstore, Ricks College Bookstore. 798 Inspirational Reading | THE HOUSE OF THE LORD $1.25 paperbound by James E. Talmage $2.95 clothbound Deseret Book is proud to re-publish in modern format this classic of Church literature by the late scholar and general authority, James E. Talmage. This volume will be an important aid to those who are going to the temple for the first time. It will also bring to all Latter-day Saints a greater appreciation of the significance of temple work in their lives. OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. IV by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas $2.60 Surface postage paid anywhere in the world. Vol. IV is the Relief Society Cultural Refinement text for 1968-69, and is geared to the theme: "The World Around Us." This book contains many items of renowned literature from the pens of noted writers, and makes an ideal volume for the family home library. ——[S— SS ae j DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main Street, Orange, California 92668 Residents of Utah add 32% sales tax, residents of California ordering from Orange add 5% sales tax. Send me [] THE HOUSE OF THE LORD (] OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS, Vol. IV COMPANY 44 EAST SO TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD. OGDEN 717 SO MAIN ST. ORANGE. CALIFORNIA _—_# Total Cost $ _ Enclosed find check (], money order [], checked established account []. Eee ene ene ence eevee cern en enee ee nnne erence enn e enn cnne enc eene nec ercesmenensrcnsereeecectescncrnc ssc escsens es cen n nee cen nee cee nnn nee tenn ec ener cn en ene nee ence ene nca carer esc anceaecneccsescenarees ces EE ee eea ee SennenZip.. Ee ae - ame RS. Oct. 68 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Beneficial Life Insurance can be the foundation of your family's plans for the future. Missions, college, retirement — all depend on financial planning begun now. Your Beneficial Life agent is superbly qualified to advise you on the insurance protection and the insurance income that can make the future take shape just as you planned it. BENEFICIAL LIFE 
