Virgil 11. Mae; Salt Lake City, Utah Pat Relief Society Magazine 1968 THE SWALLOWS Back beyond the far edges Of time, refuting thunder And the violence of sound, Up from the cool meadows The swallows of my childhood come, To perch in silent symphony, Black notes on a wire staff Above the impending storm. They shift, move, Rewrite the score Of black notes on the coral Of a sunset cloud, Still composing in the lingering twilight Their silent melodies. Never a burst of song Though wings are everywhere. Only the lost chord of silence To assuage the dreamer's ear. —Dorothy J. Roberts The Cover: i Design by Dick Scopes Lithograpned in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: | Symphony of Swallows ' Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Art Layout: a Dick Scopes Ilustrations: Mary Scopes 801

From Near and Far While vacationing at beautiful Fremont Lake in Pinedale, Wyoming, I have had a very
enlightening experience of reading some two and three year old issues of the Magazine.
How one forgets in a short time the beautiful, inspirational poems, sermons, stories,
and articles which one may have read hurriedly when the Magazines first arrived. Several
friends who do not subscribe to the Magazine, and others unfamiliar with it, have
enjoyed copies I have lent to them. Beulah Huish Sadleir, Salt Lake City, Utah
Thank you, sisters, for publishing the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. You cannot
imagine how much the Magazine means to us who live at the end of South America
in the long and narrow country called Chile. When the Magazine arrives the distance
seems to disappear and we feel united in our faith, love, and charity. Our mission is
barely seven years old, and we feel hunger and thirst for the things of God, and you
truthfully give us food and drink in large quantities for our spirits. I can tell you that
we take unto ourselves each word, that we study the lessons with devotion, and we try
to live with the same dedication and kindness as you do there.
Irma de Mackenna, Quilpue, Chile
I am so proud of my mother, Annie C. Esplin (Orderville, Utah). Recently the Magazine
has published several of her articles and poems. She has written many beautiful selections
through the years, most of which have been enjoyed only by her family. Being
cultural refinement class leader in our ward, having my mother's writings published
is a special thrill to me. Beauty radiates from her very soul. She lives a life of service
to her family and those around her. She never fails to see the beauty of a sunset, a
field of alfalfa, wild flowers on the hillside, a hummingbird— all the beauty of God's
world. Ardath Esplin Staheli, Enterprise, Utah
"Say Peanut Butter" in the May 1968 issue of the Magazine, by Janice Dixon was
delightful. I always say a little levity leavens the loaf.
Florence Bittner, Salt Lake City, Utah
I thank the ladies of the Twenty-third Ward, Ogden, Utah, for sending me the lovely
Relief Society Magazine. I read every word, from the front to the back. Each article
and lesson is inspiring. My hands are crippled with rheumatoid arthritis, and this is
the only Magazine I can read, so I appreciate it. Betty Ipsen Young, Ogden, Utah
I appreciate the delightful illustration in the July issue (page 508) for my article "The
Lady Who Bakes Cakes." I am sharing the clipping today with my daughter and granddaughters.
This is one of my pieces which has brought much personal happiness, and
I t rust may prove inspirational with those far beyond the reaches of my immediate family
and circle of friends. Ruth C. Ikerman, Redlands, California
I a m writing to tell you how much I e njoy our wonderful Magazine. The features, articles,
stories, and photography are superb. I have always loved the honor given the sisters
who are pictured with their lovely handwork. Genevieve G. Bullard, Roy, Utah
I e njoy the stories, poems, and all the instructions given in The Relief Society Magazine.
The covers are so beautiful that I can really believe I am standing there and actually
see the scenic places. I sent the Magazine as a Christmas gift to a dear friend in
Australia, and she says that it is like Christmas every month to her to receive the Magazine.
She is a convert to the Church, converted by my son when he was on his mission
there, and so we are friends by correspondence throughout the years. I also send the
Magazine as a gift to my daughter in Denver, Colorado.
Gladys Thomas, Pasadena, California 

The Relief Society Magazine Volume 55 November 1968 Number 11 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 
Contents
Special Features 804 Belle S. Spafford Elected President of the National Council of Women of the United States Marianne C. Sharp 806 Our Rights Versus Our Responsibilities Belle S. Spafford 812 'To Walk Uprightly Before the Lord'' Marianne C. Sharp 815 My Sisters and | Louise W. Madsen 818 In Memoriam—Elder William James Critchlow, Jr. 819 Norma B. Ashton Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Helena B. Larson 820 Luella W. Finlinson Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Zola McGhie 821 Report and Official Instructions Belle S. Spafford Fiction 827 Welcome the Task—Chapter 1 Michele Bartmess 837 Twice Blest Helen Romrell 845 If Spring Be Late—(Conclusion) Mabel Harmer General Features 802 From Near and Far 833 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 834 Editorial—Tell It to the Generations Vesta P. Crawford 836 Notes to the Field—Attention English Speaking Southern Hemisphere Stakes and Missions 851 Notes From the Field—Relief Society Activities 880 _— Birthday Congratulations The Home—Inside and Out 841 The Apron Mae R. Winters 842 _Let's Make a Bag for Books Margaret Woods 843 Steamed Bread—An Old-Fashioned Delicacy Ida Isaacson 844 Zerviah S. Greene Smith—An Artist With a Needle Lesson Department (Lessons for: Northern Hemisphere: February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969) 859 = Spiritual Living—The Nauvoo Temple and Its Higher Ordinances Roy W. Doxey 864 Visiting Teacher Message—Effective Communication Alice Colton Smith 866 Homemaking—Let's Be More Courteous (Continued) Celestia J. Taylor 868 Social Relations—Look for the Guide Line Alberta H. Christensen 873 Cultural Refinement—The Satisfaction of Growth Robert K. Thomas Poetry 801 The Swallows Dorothy J. Roberts Light Upon the Earth, Catherine B. Bowles 811; Cumorah, Marilyn McMeen Miller 817; Significance, Barbara Huff 825; In Wholeness, Mabel Jones Gabbott 836; Choice, Vesta N. Fairbairn 839; Contrasts, Helen B. Terry 840; Interval, Elena Hassell Stanley 850; My Companion, Julie Wilson 850; The Master's Gifts, Mary V. Cameron 865; Better, Christie Lund Coles 867; Song for a Loss, Katherine F. Larson 872; Four Words Defined, Leora G. Larson 878; Loved, Carolle Denton 878. 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1968 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subgcription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year, 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Belle S. Spafford Elected President of the National Council of Women of the United States October 1968 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp ws A new honor came to President Belle S. Spafford when she was elected the President of the National Council of Women of the United States in New York on October 17, 1968. Previous to this she has served as second and third vice-president on the board, and, more recently, as chairman of the Constitutional Review Committee. The Council is to be congratulated on its newest president. President Spafford has represented the Relief Society at the annual Council meetings since she became president of the Relief Society in 1945. Her outstanding abilities were soon recognized and responsibilities have come to her in increasing numbers over the years. She has been named as a United States delegate to the triennial meetings of the International Council of Women, in Philadelphia; Helsinki, Finland; Montreal, Canada; Washington DiGa and Teheran, Iran. At the Helsinki conference in 1954, she was the chairman of the United States delegation. President Spafford is recognized for her fearlessness in espousing and defending those causes which she feels are right. Her tact, friendliness, and wisdom are appreciated. She has made friends with women throughout the world. She was the featured speaker at the recent Eightieth Anniversary of the Council last May. This is the first time that a National Council president has not resided in or near New York City, but special plans for holding meetings and carrying on Council affairs have been arranged so that President Spafford may take on this added heavy responsibility in addition to her vital Relief Society work. As she travels to the faraway stakes for Relief Society, she will also be cementing international ties for the National Council with the women of the free world. 804 Our Rights Versus Our Responsibilities President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1968] Va: % 7 ' om, f. Ke < w Early in April of this year, it was my honor and privilege to be the guest speaker at a meeting held in New York City in honor of the 80th anniversary of the founding of the National Council of Women of the United States and also the International Council of Women. These two great councils were established in 1888 primarily in the interest 806 of woman's suffrage with two socalled giants of the early suffrage movement, Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony, as the key figures. Today millions of the world's women are identified with these councils. There were in attendance at this anniversary meeting more than 700 women with sixty-one countries of the world represented. These were capable, serious-minded women leaders who had distinguished themselves in varied fields of human endeavor in their respective countries. They were women of conscience concerned with ways to alleviate the strains under which we are now living and anxious to bring about a more just, orderly, and peaceful way of life. In inviting me to speak, I was advised that it was the aim to have the program recognize the past in the world of woman with particular emphasis upon her work in the field of woman's suffrage, her place today, and what may be expected of her tomorrow. Considerable research was involved in the preparation of my address. Three strong impressions emerged from this research. First, the dedication of women of the past to the cause of suffrage and their conviction of its rightness. So strong were Mrs. Stanton's convictions that according to one of her biographers, Theodore Tilton, " she would willingly have given her body to be burned for the sake of seeing her sex enfranchised." While Susan B. Anthony, according to one of her biographers, Ida H. Harper, "... Stood ready to sink all personal feelings for the sake of promoting this cause which she placed above all else in the world." Second, I was impressed with the long and hard struggle of the women, the patience and persistence with which they overcame almost inconceivable obstacles in order to achieve their goal. WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE Third, I was impressed by the worthy motives which prompted early-day leaders to work for woman's suffrage. I found nothing in my reading which indicated, in any way, that the struggle was in order that women might be competitive with men in. Public life; rather suffrage was seen as an avenue through which women might have voice in public affairs, use their talents and exercise their judgment in the achievement of a better life for all. They saw it as a means to enlighten women for the enhancement of the society in which they were destined to live. Our Rights Versus Our Responsibilities Mormon women were active in the suffrage movement, as we all know. National suffrage was granted the women of the United States with the adoption of the 19th Amendment to the Constitution in 1920. In most countries of the world today, women now enjoy these rights. In a few countries, they are still being pursued. It is of interest that once a nation grants suffrage to its women, there is, as a rule, a general favorable response to the action. For example, so delighted was Iran when suffrage was granted its women, a few short years ago, that the International Council of Women was invited by Empress Farah and the Princess Ashraf (twin sister of the Shah) to hold its triennial meeting in Teheran in honor of the event. When, in comparatively recent years, the women of Chili won suffrage, there appeared in the International Council of Women Bulletin an account of the event from which I quote the following: The formal announcement of this law was attended by brilliant and important personages. After an eloquent speech, the President of the Republic designated this day as a historical date to commemorate this great event for the democracy of the country, when a new and an inspired contingent—the women—would begin to participate in the responsibilities of citizenship. With this, a new day dawns for Chili. The president of the National Council of Women of Chili had this to say: The task which awaits women is as great as the difficulties they have overcome; but it is not only Chili that is confronted with this terrifying dilemma, but the entire Western civilization. And it is today that woman should take on her share of responsibility on a par with 807 November 1968 man in the destiny of a world hungry for faith in eternal, spiritual values, impoverished by crises and economic conflicts, bleeding from the wounds of war, frightened by the possible disintegration of the universe—this is the opportune moment. At this time we must collaborate, men and women unitedly, if we want a ray of hope to dispel the clouds that obscure the future. And, indeed, it does seem that the time has arrived when the focus of woman should no longer be on her rights, but rather upon her responsibilities; when the same dedication that characterized the winning of suffrage should characterize the achievement of the goals envisioned for it by the pioneer leaders of the cause; namely, the use of woman's talents and the exercise of her judgment, the use of the ballot, in making a better world. The times demand on all sides a new degree of public mindedness —an awakened conscience, a penetrating appraisal of those factors which have made nations great, along with re-dedicated allegiance to them. The times call for a greater degree of individual responsibility on the part of men and women alike in preserving the free way of life, together with the self-discipline that marks its wise and orderly use. As I looked out at the 700 women assembled for the Council's anniversary meeting and considered, for just a brief moment, the vast body of organized women which they represented, I was forcibly struck with the power and influence. That are now in the hands of women. This power, properly directed and wisely used, could and would 808 bring about great changes for good. Democracy is a precious heritage. It has been defined as government by the _ people; government in which the supreme power is retained by the people and exercised directly and indirectly through a system of representation. Its base is liberty. Its expression is the voice of the people. The law of free agency is a law of God. Considering democracy a little more intimately, it means the right to go to the Church of our choice' unrestricted, — the right to express our opinions without danger to ourselves, the right to own property, to work and save and make provision for our future; the right to maintain our homes and rear our children according to our own desires and standards; the right to go forward and improve our own conditions and pursue the interests which make us happy without unnecessary restraints or restrictions; the right to realize our full potential as individuals —rights guaranteed us by a government in which we have voice. This democratic way of life did not have its inception with the thirteen American colonies; nor is it peculiar to America. The ancient Greeks were advocates of it. History records that Aristotle taught that a state should be but the joining together of people for the happiness of themselves and families with each one being allowed as much independence as possible, without interfering with the rights of others. He declared that laws would be made and must be sovereign. Modifications in the law would be made by established processes. As early as 1215 Magna Charta was conceived—the foundation and pillar of English constitutional law. It placed limitations on the exercise of arbitrary powers of the King and was a charter of individual liberty for the people. The Bill of Rights set: forth in the Constitution of the United States was patterned after Magna Charta. As Latter-day Saints, we know that God's prophets have taught the importance of freedom which comes through representative government. About 90 B. C. King Mosiah on the American Continent admonished his people: Now it is not common that the voice of the people desireth anything contrary to that which is right; but it is common for the lesser part of the people to desire that which is not right; therefore this shall ye observe and make it your law—to do your business by the voice of the people. (Mosiah 29:26.) It is highly disturbing that today certain influences are making inroads upon our democracy and its happy productive way of life for the people. Women properly should be concerned with these. May I suggest a few such influences: 1. The moral lassitude on the part of people in private and public life. 2. The ascendancy of materialism over spiritual values. 3. The growing disregard of law and order. 4. The various social devices and programs now being offered which tend to stifle individual initiative, deter self-effort, impair character, and which could ultimately enslave the individual. Our Rights Versus Our Responsibilities What can we women do about these? How can we, the average women, the housewives on the farms and in the cities, impede or negate these adverse influences and promote that which has been proved to be good? MORAL LASSITUDE Let us first consider the problem of moral lassitude. Our greatest danger today, according to many thinking people, is from ourselves—from our growing disregard for principle and our reliance upon expediency. The decline in national character is a serious danger to democracy because if we lose our standards, our liberties may also be lost through abuses, corruption, and chaos. Personal integrity, honesty, trustworthiness, honorableness of intent and action, moral conduct in private and public life are the character fibers of democracy. These cannot be "taken on" as an individual, grown to manhood or womanhood, steps out to play his or her part in the affairs of the world. They must be inculcated in the individual in the days of his infancy and youth. These are given root and most effectively nourished in_ the home. Through her training, example, and watchcare, a mother can implant' moral principles in a child so that when his influence is extended into public life, there will be no winking at unscrupulous or dishonorable behavior, but a _ steadfast adherence to right. In molding national character and creating public opinion that looks upon moral lassitude with a high de- 809 November 1968 gree of disfavor (and this, I believe, is the most effective way of dealing with this evil), it is my conviction that there is no group with greater power than women. This may seem a slow way of dealing with an urgent problem, but, in reality, as we consider the quick pace of time between childhood and adult life, it isn't so slow; but, nonetheless, it is sure. There is no way, in my judgment, whereby women can make a better contribution to public life. MATERIALISM Next, let us consider the materialism that is exerting itself as never before. This is threatening our rich, spiritual heritage. Spiritual strength, faith in God, and a reliance on his providences are essential to human wellbeing. Skepticism and unbelief are weapons of despotism. Tyranny and oppression do not thrive in an atmosphere of faith and_ religious devotion. Women have been regarded in the past as architects of spirituality. Today it would seem that the spiritual natures of many of us need an overhauling. Material advantage all too often seems predominantly to motivate our actions at a sacrifice of spiritual values. When the - spiritual natures, deeply embedded: in women, become dormant or choked out, then we have real cause to fear. Women should make every effort to build and strengthen the spiritual qualities of life through faith in God, through participation in Church activities, through developing well-defined religious concepts 810 and beliefs, and through teaching them to their children; through a cultivation of their innate spiritual natures without which there can be no really good life. Not what we have, but what we are should be the watchword of womankind. DISREGARD FOR LAW AND ORDER Relative to disregard for law and order, it is but reasonable that woman as mother, householder, educator, spiritual anchor and the living conscience of her contemporaries, would discountenance any attitude or action that would not uphold the sovereignty of law. True, she would be sensitive to human needs and sympathetic toward correcting or improving conditions which warrant this; she would work toward their betterment, but she would do so in an orderly way. She would not lend herself to action that would in any way agitate militancy or public disturbance. Rather she would concern herself with acquiring an informed understanding of the causes of the condition; she would thoughtfully determine how best to deal with these; she would work toward creating an enlightened public opinion, and accomplish desired changes within the framework of law. All too often, I fear, women who are by _nature inclined to be moved by their emotions, become so exercised over a problem as to lose sight of the proper approaches to its solution. This must be avoided. Mormon women know that _ latter-day revelation requires of us strict allegiance to civil law. It is my belief that organized women upholding the sovereignty of civil law and working toward needed social reform through orderly processes can be a power for good. ENSLAVEMENT OF THE INDIVIDUAL With regard to the fourth adverse influence to which I referred, let us exercise our hard-won franchise. Let us sense our individual responsibility to see that persons elected to public office are competent and _ morally sound; that they are persons who will protect the policies and practices of democracy and not yield to new and enslaving ways of governing; persons who will so govern that national character will remain strong. Generally speaking, I believe that people resent help that does not allow for reciprocal effort. Let us as women take measure of our own attitudes and wants. What do we expect of government? Would those things which we want serve the greatest good of the greatest number of people? What are we willing to contribute toward their attainment? Are we content to limit Our Rights Versus Our Responsibilities our contribution to complaints or do we sense our responsibility to improve conditions through the orderly and intelligent exercise of our franchise? Let us keep informed on the local, national, and international issues before us. This is not hard to do in this day of extensive communication. Let us listen to the viewpoints of those who seek election to public office and who may have to deal with these issues. Let us consider whether their viewpoints square with the principles that have traditionally contributed to worthy government and the wellbeing of the people. Let us as Mormon women weigh them against the principles which have been taught us through precept and example by our leaders from the very beginning days of the Church. Let us listen to the voice of the prophets. I have faith in the women of the Church. I have faith in the countless good women of the world rising to a realization that they do have influence and power in correcting existing ills and in promoting right, and that they will prove themselves effective in the orderly achievement of a better world. LIGHT UPON THE EARTH Winds and weather move upon the earth— Sun and shadow mark the night and day, But light shall pierce the darkness in the gospel's steadfast ray. —Catherine B. Bowles 811 The Lord" Counselor Marianne C. Sharp [ Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conferehce, October 2, 1968] e L. "*<; he - @ We read in Section 68 of the Doctrine and Covenants commands given by the Lord to parents in Zion. Never, I feel, was it more necessary to obey these commandments for the eternal welfare of ourselves and our children than it is at the present time. These are fateful last days in the history of the world. Section 1, 812 the Preface to the Doctrine and Covenants, says in different verses, the voice of warning shall be unto all people, by the mouths of my disciples, whom I have chosen in these last days.... The hour is not yet, but is nigh at hand, when peace shall be taken from the earth, and the devil shall have power over his own dominion. (D&C 1:4,35.) Among the commandments given to parents, we read "And they shall also teach their children to pray and to walk uprightly before the Lord." (D&C 68:28.) It is not an easy thing in these last days for mothers to teach children to walk uprightly before the Lord. It is true that there have always been temptations in the world, but temptations today seem to be more available, with evil sounds and evil examples allowed, through modern media, to invade the sacred precincts of the home. In 1831, when Section 68 was given, the Lord said he was not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion, for there were idlers among them and their children were growing up in wickedness. Do we wonder what the Lord thinks of the condition of our children today? All we have to do is to listen to the words of our prophets who, in the next few days, will deliver the words of the Lord to us. And it will be for us, as mothers, to heed those words spoken to the mothers at the Relief Society conference, and then at the great general Church conference, which follows, and the words of the prophets as they visit throughout the stakes. Virtue of Modesty As we think of virtues which we would make the warp and woof of our children's lives, many come to our minds and crowd for expression. A major one is modesty. I recall my mother telling her children that her proper English mother would not allow her daughters to cross their knees, but would reprimand them with the words "Don't make _ yourself cheap." Today, we hear so much about keeping the knees covered that the true meaning of modesty may not be realized. Modesty is not measured by a yardstick. It is that innate feeling and observance for the decencies of behavior, speech, and_ dress. Clothing which covers a knee and even the upper arms may be so immodest as to verge on vulgarity. Such a subtle quality as modesty, can hardly be defined in words. The observance depends, In great measure, upon the example of the mother to her daughters. Let us look into our hearts, do we give lip service and outward compliance in a way to get by, ''To Walk Uprightly Before The Lord'' or do we and are we strengthening our characters so that the quality of modesty is an integral part of it, helping us to gain eternal life? Can we imagine an immodest woman in the celestial kingdom? Is that thought a weightier one than style or fashion, or following present trends? Obedience to Law; Upholding the Constitution A second area to which I would speak is the observance of law and upholding the Constitution of the United States. A mother's training in observing the law is powerful for a child. In her daily living pattern' she teaches her child not only to observe the laws of God but also the laws of the land. Lessons in law observance are easily taught as she drives a car, as she has her child observe traffic signals in walking, as she observes the word of wisdom in the home and outside, as she observes the Sabbath day to keep it holy. The divinity of the Constitution of the United States is a part of the gospel no matter in what country a Latterday Saint may live, for it was established by the Lord in order that his Church could be established on the earth. Mothers who owe allegiance to the Government of the United States need to train their children to be ready to save the Constitution when that time comes. Brigham Young said on July 4, 1854: Will the Constitution be destroyed? No: it will be held inviolate by this people; and, as Joseph Smith said, "The time will come when the destiny of the nation will hang upon a single thread. At that critical juncture, this people will 813 November 1968 step forth and save it from the threatened destruction." Brigham Young added "It will be so." (Journal of Discourses 7:15.) We do not know how or when this will be, but we need to teach our children to love the Constitution of the United States, and to know that "the signers of the Declaration of Independence and the framers of the Constitution were inspired from on high to do that work." (Journal of Discourses 7-14.) When the destiny of the United States will hang upon a single thread, at that critical juncture, mothers, do you want your children among those who will step forth and save it? They must be law abiding and liberty loving if they will do it. A few months ago a Patriot's Day observance was held in this Tabernacle. A former United States Supreme Court Justice, Tom C. Clark asked "What is the most important thing in the world?" and answered, "I say to you it is the law. Without it we would not be able to live. The world would be governed by force.... The next most important thing in the world is obedience to law and respect for constituted authority." As mothers, let us set an example of obedience to law to which our children will adhere. Love for the Savior Finally, I would speak on the attribute which must govern us as mothers in our daily living pattern and which we must teach our children if they would "walk uprightly before the Lord." It is the knowledge of Jesus as 814 the Christ, the Son of the living God, and our love for him. As we have taught our children faith in Christ the Son of the Living God, so we must teach them love for Christ. As we get a dim, imperfect understanding of the atonement of Christ for all, our love for him increases. The great motivating force to be honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous and in doing good to all men, is love of Christ. The great motivating force to keep us on the straight and narrow path to exaltation, is the love of Christ. As mothers we must draw near to him. It is not what we profess to be, nor even what our actions are, which will give us that greatest gift of eternal life. It is what we are—which the Lord knows. In being judged for what we are, there will enter in the words of the Lord with regard to the teaching of our children and where we do not fulfill his command, "the sin will be upon the heads of the parents." Nothing will excuse a mother from obedience to these commandments of the Lord. When children become independent and sometimes even rebellious, it is the day-by-day, hour-by-hour training of the children by the mother which may keep the child from turning away from righteousness. President McKay has testified to the safeguard of a mother's example and teachings in the hour of temptation. May every Latterday Saint mother obey the commandment of the Lord to teach her children to walk uprightly before the Lord and welcome the blessed opportunities for training them throughout life, I pray. My Sisters and | Counselor Louise W. Madsen { Address Delivered at the General Session of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1968]; w The belief in the brotherhood of man is one of the foremost doctrines of the Church. We believe implicitly in the Fatherhood of God which encompasses the knowledge of the brotherhood of man. Sisterhood is one of the great blessings of Relief Society. Each sister having the concept of the sisterhood of the daughters of our Heavenly Father, knowing that one of the reasons he caused Relief Society to be organized was to foster that sisterhood, will identify herself as a sister in the Society and as a sister to those to whom she can be of service. Each individual member will, with humility, think of "my sisters and I" as she contemplates some of the forces which lead to an abundant life, and as She pledges her service and loyalty. My sisters and I will be benevolent, with all the moral excellence benevolence implies. President McKay has said, "All acts of kindness, of self-denial, of self-devotion, of forgiveness, of charity, of love, spring from this divine attribute." Benevolence is the sum of many virtues and is one of the attributes of the Father and the Son which mortals strive to emulate. The Prophet Joseph Smith was confident that the sisters of Relief Society possessed a knowledge 815 November 1968 of the pure principles of benevolence and practiced them. Each of us has been the recipient of the benevolent deeds of others. From this experience we learn to act toward others in the same manner. My sisters and I will serve the Lord together. With them and through them I will learn compassion. | WILL GO BEYOND MYSELF My sisters and I will serve those in sickness and distress, becoming involved in the misfortunes of others to the extent that our services prove helpful and uplifting. Because I have been one with them in service I may expect their tender ministrations if need comes to me. But further, by their example, I will be led to see the needs of those about me. A heightened awareness of the blessings of service will guide me. I will not be blind to the sight of someone who needs me, nor deaf to the call of the helpless, nor indifferent to distress. I will go beyond myself to a greater loving-kindness. "Be kindly affectioned one to another with brotherly love." (Rom. 12:10), the apostle Paul admonished. This affection appears in the joy of being together, of working together, of laughing or crying together. Brotherliness or sisterliness is but the manifestation of the Spirit of Christ. It increases in us a great appreciation of the Savior's value of the individual soul. This affection extends far beyond the intimate circle of close friends to sisters in great cities, in small hamlets, in distant lands, across 816 wide oceans, over high mountains, in every part of the earth. The affection of sisters binds us together in a closely knit worldwide organization. Sisterhood implies mutual dependence, a purpose in common and the "oneness" the Lord requires of his daughters. Among life's sweetest blessings is the companionship of those with noble ideals. The influence for good one's life has been is one of the: measures of successful living.. My sisters and I will study together, learn together, and teach one another. Deeply spiritual experiences will result from learning the great doctrines of the gospel and the simple truisms of the faith. Testimonies will be strengthened. Enrichment will enter our lives as we partake of the refining influences of culture and beauty. An increased understanding of what constitutes the finest literature, the greatest art, the best music will enable us to acquire the knowledge which will make us better women. Spirituality, culture, refinement—do these not reflect the ideals of womanhood of which we are capable? Together we will achieve them. My sisters and I will be true to the faith. BEAUTY ALL AROUND My sisters and I will endeavor to build happy homes, to bring to our husbands and children all the love and devotion of our hearts and souls. The aura of graciousness, of kindness, of courtesy, of thought- } fulness will permeate our homes. There will be beauty all around, spiritual beauty as well as physical beauty, as we enlarge our homemaking talents and practice the feminine graces that are the natural heritage of women. Relief Society is a joyous sisterhood of women uniting to do the will of the Lord. Together the members accomplish important things, yet each individual is benefited from being a part of the whole. No one has lost her identity. The Society is not one which effaces the individual, but one which enhances her abilities, My Sisters and! Personality, and character. Each member is cherished and in turn cherishes her sisters. "Whither thou goest," whither thou leadest in righteousness, I will follow, she promises' those appointed to lead this great Society. Together, my sisters and I will accept the Prophet's challenge to build up Relief Society to the Most High in the most acceptable manner. The women of the Church will fill their role in its blessed entirety. My sisters and I are grateful to our Heavenly Father for the great blessing of being his daughters. CUMORAH There is poetry in these hills. Even the rain Listens In its breathless hush. The same Wet sacrament Of earth Delivers sound Of all the reverence Here above, below The ground. There is a secret below this green Wet world of leaf and wood That whispers yet. - The earth is calm, Remembering, And man does not forget: The rain, And all the poetry of life From here that came... And all that someday Breathless.. Soon May speak again. —Marilyn McMeen Miller 817 IN MEMORIAM ELDER WILLIAM JAMES CRITCHLOW, JR. Assistant to the Council of the Twelve August 21, 1892—August 29, 1968 @ Elder William James Critchlow, Jr., Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, passed away in Ogden, Utah, August 29, 1968 at the age of seventy-six. Elder Critchlow was appointed an assistant to the Council of the Twelve in October 1958, and has since fulfilled many important assignments for the Church. At the time of his death, he was an aid to Elder Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve in supervising stakes and missions in the Southeastern United States. Prior to this, he had assisted Elder Ezra Taft Benson, also of the Council of the Twelve, in supervising stakes and missions in Europe. He served as an advisor to the Primary organization and on the Church personnel committee, while a General Authority. Prior to his call to be a General Authority, Elder Critchlow served in many important Church positions, including seventeen years as president of the South Ogden Stake. Elder Critchlow was born in Brigham City, Utah, August 21, 1892. He was the son of Anna Gregerson and William James Critchlow. He received his education in the Ogden _ public schools, and was graduated from Weber Academy and studied at the University of Utah. His business career was one of hard-won success. Within 818 ten years he had gone from office clerk to regional manager of the Utah Light and Railway Company, now Utah Power and Light Company. In 1924, Elder Critchlow was married to Anna Marie Taylor of Ogden in the Salt Lake Temple. They are the parents of three children, William James, III, Robert Taylor, and _ Patricia (Mrs. Datus H. Maughan). There are fifteen grandchildren. Elder Critchlow was always dedicated and devoted to the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. As a General Authority, he traveled extensively for the Church, attending stake conferences, touring missions, dedicating chapels, and preaching the gospel. Wherever he went he was a popular and _= inspirational speaker, and his enthusiastic testimony of the work in which he was engaged was infectious. The General Board and members of Relief Society in all stakes and missions of the Church extend sympathy to the family and many friends of Elder Critchlow at his passing. Luella W. Finlinson Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Zola McGhie, Member, General Board of Relief Society w Coming to her new calling on the General Board of Relief Society, Luella Wheeler Finlinson brings a rich background of service and devotion to the Church and the community. She was appointed August 14, 1968. Born in South Cottonwood, Utah, the youngest of seven children of Bishop Jesse H. And Rena M. Doty Wheeler, Sister Finlinson comes from a family of Relief So-! | ciety workers. Her mother was in the Cottonwood Stake Relief Society Presidency when the Cottonwood Maternity Home was founded. Two sisters have been ward and stake presidents. She attended schools in the Granite District and graduated, an honor student, from the University of Utah. She then taught in Granite, Murray, and Jordan Schools before marrying Fred Lyman Finlinson, Salt Lake attorney, in 1939. They are the parents of three children: Fred W., a law student at the University of Utah, married to the former Jeanne Braithwaite; David W., business student; and Judith, a sophomore at the University of Utah. Sister Finlinson's devotion to the Church and her leadership have been demonstrated in her many Church assignments. She was a member of the Tabernacle Choir for twenty-eight years; served as ward MIA secretary and president; as teacher and chorister in Sunday School; as Relief Society visiting teacher; as cultural refinement class leader, Singing Mothers chorister, and ward president. Stake assignments include: Junior Girls leader, counselor of Girls Committee, Relief Society visiting teacher message leader, secretary, chorister, regional welfare president, and seven years as South Cottonwood Stake Relief Society President, a position she held until her appointment to the General Board. Her many civic activities include positions in the Parent-Teacher Association, Utah State Barristers Wives, Salt Lake County Bar Auxiliary, political circles, Delta Gamma Alumni, Daughters of the Utah Pioneers, Salt Lake Council of Women, Lady Lions, Forum Club, and fund raising drives. She is listed in Who's Who of American Women and Who's Who in Western American Women. The women of the Church will truly benefit from the humble spirit, friendly personality, and the great love for Relief Society that Sister Finlinson radiates. 820 [Delivered at the Officers REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Belle S. Spafford Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1968 } w The presentation of a brief report of the status of Relief Society, together with a few current official instructions and recommendations from the General Board, is a regular feature of the Officers Meeting of the Annual General Conference. Heretofore, figures from the most recent annual report have been compared with those of the previous year, giving precise information on growth and accomplishments. In giving this report, we must ing the eight-month period, January through August 1967, which are the only Church-wide figures available to us at this time. This eight-month report does not lend itself to comparison with the previous twelve-month report, so comparative figures will not be used. The growth and expansion of the work have necessitated some changes in procedures, a need to take firmer steps to standardize the work in harmony with the regulations and recommendations of the Church Correlation Committee; a need to provide some new Church approved materials, particularly lesson materials, to meet the special needs of certain Societies; a need for extensive translation of Relief Society materials to serve the many foreign-language organizations. STANDARDIZING THE WORK An effective tool in standardizing the work is the new Relief Society Handbook of Instructions issued in January of this year. The revised Record Books and Visiting Teacher Report Books further standardize the work, as do the present regulations with regard to the use of ChurchCorrelation-approved materials. The four volumes of the Special Lessons prepared for groups needing simplified lessons, as well as the lessons for use by campus Relief Societies during the summer months, bring further uniformity into the teaching program. Relief Societies are directed not to use courses of study or other programs of their own choosing in substitution for approved programs. With regard to the translation of Relief Society lessons and other materials, it will be of interest to 821 November 1968 you to know that presently Relief Society work is being translated, through the Church Translation Department, into sixteen different foreign languages with additional language translations anticipated. ANNUAL REPORT OF MEMBERSHIP OF CAMPUS RELIEF SOCIETIES Membership figures as of August 31, 1967 showed a slight decrease over those of January 1, 1967. This would have caused concern had we not realized that there are approximately 10,000 sisters enrolled in college campus Relief Societies. After these sisters leave the campus in the late spring or early summer, no record is kept of their Relief Society membership until it is again recorded when they return to school in the fall. We estimate that had the May membership figures for campus Relief Societies been used in compiling membership figures, rather than those of August 31, Relief Society would have shown a _ normal twelve-month membership increase in excess of 10,000. The General Board now recommends' that membership figures as of May 31 be used for campus Relief Societies rather than those of August 31. NEW NURSERY MANUAL We are pleased to advise you that a new Relief Society nursery manual has been prepared through the service of the Church Correlation Writing Committee. We think it is delightful. It contains a few general instructions. It has lessons, stories, songs, finger plays and other recom- 822 mended activities that have been carefully chosen to teach our little pre-school children through enjoyable, meaningful activities. The manual, available for stake and ward, mission and branch Societies, may be used for several successive years. It is to be obtained, through the stake or mission district, from the General Board Office. Price $2. Where wards are far removed from the stake or mission district center, the manual will be mailed direct to the ward or branch upon request. The book is not translated into foreign languages, however. STRENGTHEN LAMANITE ORGANIZATIONS We appeal to you sisters who have Lamanite Relief Societies within your stakes and missions to do all in your power to strengthen these organizations so they will meet the needs of the Lamanite sisters. Help these sisters to live comfortably in the Church and the social environment in which they find themselves. Help them to make their homes inviting to their children. Certainly we. Would not have them lose the beauties of their own culture, but we would offer them every advantage offered every other woman through Relief Society. No new special lessons are being prepared for use in 1968-69 by the Lamanite sisters. These sisters 'will repeat, as needed, lessons formerly contained in Special Lessons, Volumes 1 through 4. They will also use the regular Homemaking Discussions, Visiting 'Teacher Messages, and the Social Relations lessons printed in the Magazine for the current year's am. It is anticit of lessons amanite educational pr pated that a will be prepare sisters for US for most held in Se book is now re obtained fro Compan $2.60 per copy, Surface mail P ostpaid. Report and Official Instructions HOMEMAKING We call your attention to the importance of the discussions will be reached as arrangements program. The General Board will appreciate being notified by you when it is felt that a home nursing course may be established in your area. November 1968 COMPASSIONATE SERVICE In the eight-month period, January through August 1967, there were 24,500 eight-hour days bedside nursing care given the sick in their homes. Assuming this same rate of service was continued for the next four months, there was an annual increase in the service of over 5,500 eighthour days. The volume of other types of compassionate service is heartening: as you will note in the report published in the April 1968 Relief Society Magazine, and bears evidence that Relief Society is indeed meeting its responsibilities to those in distress. SPECIALIZED WELFARE SERVICES As many of you know, the First Presidency has assigned to the Relief Society General Presidency responsibility for directing the specialized welfare services of the Church. These are services requiring state license, such as adoption and foster-home care of children. We call to your attention Section XVII in the booklet, Administering Assistance that is being distributed by the Regional Representatives of the Twelve in the Regional Conferences now being held. Relief Society stake presidents will receive a copy of this booklet. We also wish to advise you of a statement on these Specialized Welfare Services that will appear in a forthcoming issue of the Priesthood Bulletin. We urge a careful reading of both these statements for your information in order that you may safeguard yourselves against any wrong 824 procedures in dealing with these matters by following the recommendation. RECORDING WELFARE HOURS Relief Society continues to support the Church Welfare program as directed by the General Priesthood Welfare Committee. A new ruling prevails with regard to recording the hours contributed by females on welfare projects. Hereafter, you will record only the number of hours contributed by Relief Society members. VISITING TEACHING The Visiting Teacher program continues to grow in size and improve in quality of service with approximately five million visits having been made to homes by 132,000 visiting teachers. The importance of this program has long since been proved. We commend the sisters for their service and Relief Society presidents for their conscientious efforts in directing it. MUSIC There comes to Relief Society through its music program esthetic richness, enjoyment, opportunities for the development of talents, as well as for cultural and missionary service. How spiritually impoverished _ this Conference would seem could we not join in singing the hymns of Zion, and did we not have the blessings of the glorious music of our Singing Mothers choruses, our gifted soloists, and our great accompanists, our beautiful and reverent prelude and _ postlude music. We are heartened by the growth in the number of Singing Mothers choruses and the excellent quality of their work. These choruses are being recognized, and invitations to sing for important events are increasing. As examples, I cite the presentation of the chorus from the New York and New Jersey areas, conducted by Sister Ellen N. Barnes on last years 30-minute nation-wide N. B. C. Christmas Eve program entitled "Voices of Christmas," also the recent presentation at Hemisfair of a combined chorus of 375 voices from eight. Stake Relief Societies in the South led by Sister Montez Anderegg. Other choruses have sung on important occasions. The General Board requests that any plans for your Singing Mothers choruses to give concerts outside your own stakes be referred to the General Board for counsel and approval. SONG CONTEST In order further to promote music and through the generosity of Sister Cleone Eccles, a gifted musician and former member of the Board, we are pleased to announce that the General Board will conduct annually a contest for Latter-day Saint women in song writing (lyrics and music), to be known as "The Relief Society Song Contest." The purpose of the contest is to encourage creativity in this form of art-excellence in the general field of music among the women of the Church. This year's contest (1968-69) opens with Report and Official Instructions this announcement and _ closes March 1, 1969. The General Board will be happy to receive entries following this announcement until the closing date of the contest. The rules of the contest are published in the October 1968 issue of the Magazine. MAGAZINE It is with deep appreciation that we acknowledge the service of stake and ward presidencies and the Magazine representatives in the Magazine circulation program. The present combined circulations of the English and Spanish editions is 273,000. The importance of the Magazine in all aspects of our work is recognized by all of us. GARMENT DISTRIBUTION We also most sincerely thank stake Relief Society presidents for the willing spirit and the excellence of efforts in the Garment Distribution program. You have caught the spirit of this great assignment and are conducting your programs so that the purposes desired by the First Presidency in assigning the work to Relief Society are being realized. It is my personal opinion that Relief Society has never been given by the First Presidency a special assignment of greater or more far-reaching importance and that Relief Society presidents perhaps have never accepted an assignment with a more sincere desire to fulfill it as desired by the Brethren. May we all continue to be blessed in our work with this sacred clothing. 825 November 1968 FUND RAISING We commend ward and stake Relief Society presidents for the wise direction being given to fund raising, for the wisdom shown in making expenditures and _ for the accuracy of the financial accounting. We suggest that you review with your officers Section X, "Funds," pages 61-69 in the new Handbook of Instructions, with special attention being given to the paragraph, "Participation in Commercial Selling," page 63. We caution you with regard to a growing trend to enter into arrangements for persons to give demonstrations at the homemaking meeting where the sisters, in making the articles demonstrated, can obtain the materials or equipment only through purchase from the demonstrator or a company she represents. Sisters, to hold office in Relief Society is a distinct honor involving responsibility and _ trust. Relief Society leaders need the blessing of the Lord., We announce at this time the change in the ruling with regard to setting apart of Relief Society leaders, which appears in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints General Handbook of Instructions, Number 20, 1968, page 31, as follows: Bishopric to Call Ward Auxiliary Officers. Auxiliary officers are chosen, interviewed, and called by the bishopric, and, following the sustaining vote of the ward membership, are set apart by the bishopric. Officers and teachers in the auxiliary organizations may be nominated by the auxiliary heads and should be interviewed and approved by the bishopric. They may be sustained in their regular meeting of the respective auxiliary and are to be set apart by or under the direction of the bishopric. Auxilary leaders should not contact new workers until the bishopric has interviewed the prospective candidate and has issued the call. This ruling supercedes the ruling in the new Relief Society Handbook of Instructions on page 41 with regard to the setting apart of officers, class leaders, and visiting teachers. With regard to visiting teachers, they are called by authority of the Priesthood for this special assignment, and they go out as emissaries of Relief Society. It is not regarded as necessary under these circumstances that they be set apart. We understand that this is in harmony with the regulations on home teachers not being set apart. Sisters, the women with whom you work are precious women, eager to do right, to meet life with intelligence, and in harmony with the will of the Lord. It is your task to direct the work of Relief Society so that these choice women may delight in their Relief Society membership and through it, be blessed according to their needs and desires. May choice blessings be yours. A candle in the sunlight SIGNIFICANCE Cannot brighten more the day, But that candle ts a blessing When the sun has gone away. 826 —Barbara Huff Welcome The Task Michele Bartmess. As told by Annette Giles w Jennifer Miles leaned against the big walnut tree gracing the back yard of the large family home in Springville, Utah. It was early spring, and the mountains to the south were still a beautiful blue and white from the winter's snow. The lake to the west and the sky above were an identical blue. The eastern mountains were beginning to turn green. The air was pleasantly warm and flowers were beginning to bloom all across the valley. Jennifer loved the springtime, for it signified new birth and was a change from the final dreary months of winter; but she loved each new season as it came. She sighed audibly. She was failing in a valiant but vain attempt to get an early start in preparing for final examinations at the university where she was a junior student in business eduChapter 1 cation. When she finished she would be qualified to teach in high school. There were three more semesters, one of which involved student teaching, before she would finish her course of study. She realized that she was going to have to go into the library in Provo, for there she could push away the thoughts that were crowding her mind and study diligently. Recently, she had been having some trouble forcing herself to prepare for her classes, and, at times, she felt uncertain as to whether she ought to be in school, although it was a lifelong goal. She was assured that it was both natural and temporary. Many dedicated students had periods of time when it seemed hopeless, it was called "junior jitters." From the kitchen the aroma of baking bread stirred Jennifer to 827 November 1968 action and she hurried in to see if there might be something she could do to help. "T thought you were studying, dear," Mrs. Miles commented as Jennifer came into the cheerful yellow and white kitchen, always perfectly clean, even after a baking session. "T guess Ill have to do my studying in the library, where I can't see all the signs of springtime and feel the sunshine warming my bones. I believe my ailment could be correctly diagnosed as spring fever." "You're sure you haven't been bitten by the love-bug, Jenny?" her mother asked perceptively. 'How was your date last night?" A flicker of uncertainty clouded Jennifer's features for a_ brief moment, then she said brightly, "The play was wonderful. Some of the student actors are great. They really portray with emotion. I guess it's a reflection on the fine training the university offers." Elizabeth Miles did not pry into the brief hesitation she had noted in her daughter's reply. Theirs had been a close family, and Jennifer was the only daughter. She would come to her in time. "Mother, you're going to ruin my figure,' Jennifer protested, as she took the warm cinnamon roll her mother offered. Elizabeth smiled. "No, Jenny, your figure survived two years of British cooking, and most people do put on weight when they go over there." Jennifer knew this to be true, but while she was on her mission she had been consciously careful of what she ate. She had always been slim and _ graceful. She 828 looked like her mother, with long dark auburn hair, and brown expressive eyes. Her mouth was full and generally turned up in a smile. She did have her father's chin, suggesting strength and determination. As Jennifer drove to Provo later, she thought over the previous evening's activities. She wondered if her conversation with Steve was the reason that things seemed all out of proportion today. Their relationship was somewhat strange, she supposed. Although they had tried, or rather Steve had tried to explain it, Jennifer was left somewhat confused and unsure of how she really felt about everything, including Steve. Steve was a quiet person. Everyone was aware of that, but it had never been uncomfortable to be with him, and the silences had been pleasant ones. Jennifer wasn't too much more outgoing than he. She joked and had fun with her friends and family, but was'_ basically serious, and, occasionally, shy. As she had told her mother, the play had been wonderful. It was one she had read, but seeing it portrayed had brought it strangely to life. It was Thornton Wilder's Our Town, done with a minimum of distracting scenery so the characters were the focal point and it had moved the audience deeply. In the climactic final scene where young Emily urges people to live each day fully, for it will be lost when it is done, Jennifer felt tears stinging her own eyelids, and the gentle pressure of Steve's hand told her that he, too, had been deeply moved. After the play, they had walked across campus and sat down on one of the benches beneath a tree in a little grove, where students often came for a bit of quiet aloneness. They discussed the play and its message, and were in agreement about the beauty of such a message. Suddenly Steve had asked, seemingly out of the blue, "Jenny, do you ever feel trapped by life?" She looked at him oddly. "Trapped?" "You know," he went on, earnestly, "by social pressures and all. That if you go against the expected norms, you're some kind of an oddball?" Jennifer could not imagine where this strange beginning was going to lead. This was unlike Steve. "What kind of social pressures, Steve?" "Well," he began hesitantly, "we've been dating for about a year now, and we corresponded for nine months." Jennifer felt momentary panic. What could he be driving at? Was he going to ask her to marry him, or was he trying to end the relationship? Neither seemed likely. "Yes, I guess it has been that long, but it doesn't seem like 1 ul He was silent for a _ while. "Jenny," he finally said gently, "T guess I owe you something after all this time, at least an explanation of my intentions." The thought had crossed Jennifer's mind, but, unlike most girls her age, she was not particularly concerned lest she might not marry. She felt that there was some unfinished business in her life that needed attention before marriage, although what, bd she had no idea. She had fulfilled her dream of serving a mission in England, but still she felt a restlessness to prepare for some task. She would soon be_ through school, but she knew this was not the task. She was nearly twenty-four years old, and marriage could wait. She enjoyed life and male attention, and she did want to marry and have a family, but not yet. Her friends considered this attitude strange, so she rarely expressed it. She knew that she simply was not yet ready for marriage. Steve spoke again. "I've been getting it from the fellows, you know, about us getting married and all." So this was what he meant by social pressures. She "had been getting it," too, but it would bother a man more than a woman. Steve was twenty-seven years old, nearly through school, a mission and military service behind him, naturally, he was ideal as far as a possible husband was concerned. 829 November 1968 "T really don't know what to say, Steve. I haven't been worried about that. We have a good time together, I feel comfortable with you, and of course, | am fond of you, and respect and admire you. I just ignore the social pressure." Most of their discussions had been religious, academic, or in a non-personal category. It was difficult for them to express themselves in such a frank and candid manner about so serious a matter. "That is exactly why I am attracted to you, Jenny. Pretty girls are a dime a dozen on this campus, but they all have one thing on their minds—marriage. It scares a man. You're a beautiful girl, Jennifer, I like that, but you're also mature and intelligent. You never put pressure on me by dropping little hints, or staring longingly when we pass a jewelry shop." "Well, frankly, Steve, I'm just not in any hurry to get married. I do want to finish school, and I feel that there is something else I have to do. Please don't ask me what, for if I knew I would set about doing it." "T've said this much, Jenny," he said, seeming to force himself to continue, "I guess I'll finish. If I were going to marry soon, you would be my choice. We are compatible, I admire your domestic talents, you're calm, understanding, and intelligent, I'm always proud to be with you, and believe it or not, I do care about you. But, well—I haven't given marriage too much thought yet. I want a home and family, eventually, but right now I want my master's degree. And there is Mom. I don't even remember 830 Dad. I was just a little boy when the war broke out, and he was killed in Normandy. Mother has helped me as she could through school, and with my mission. I don't know, I'm probably against falling in love, and I have no right to ask you to wait until it becomes convenient for me to change my mind." "Steve," Jennifer asked quietly, when she decided he was through, "are you trying to end this relationship?" He shook his head sadly, and pulled her closer looking into her eyes, his own gray eyes expressing sincere and frank concern. "Oh, Jenny, have I made such a mess of things? That's the last thing I want, I only wanted you to know where things stand." They had talked a little more, without solving anything. Jennifer had been perfectly willing to accept things as they were before, why not now? Why hadn't the relationship taken its natural course, or was this the natural course? Why had his friends put on the pressure, couldn't two people be friends anymore? "T he arrival at the library and determination to study, forced Jennifer to put Steve out of her mind in favor of the problems she would be facing as a schoolteacher. She arrived home in time to help prepare dinner. "You look so tired tonight, Mother. You haven't overtaxed yourself, have you?" "I am a little tired,' her mother admitted. Jennifer chewed her lip thoughtfully. She worried about her mother. She had had a heart condition which had _ plagued her for many years. 'There were times when she would suffer considerably, but she rarely complained, yet often, despite attempts by the entire family to prevent it, she overtaxed herself. ED innertime was a_ pleasant time in the Miles family. With four busy youngsters, there were few times when the family was all together. Bickering and squabbling were not allowed, nor was monopolization of the conversation; however, anything which might be of general interest to the family was discussed. Charles Miles maintained that good food digested better amid a happy, pleasant atmosphere. After dinner, Jennifer did the dishes while her father and mother talked quietly in the living room. The three boys, Dave, Pete, and Sam, would be off on a variety of activities, depending upon the season of year. All three were avid sports enthusiasts. Pete loved animals, Dave, a little older, preferred girls, and Sam, the youngest, devoted his attentions to the television set. Quite often, the entire family would gather at the piano for singing. Songs from the hymnbooks and other sources were sung with Jennifer at the piano. Every member of the family had a good voice. Elizabeth's was beautiful. The boys would often beg her to sing an old favorite, and she would gladly comply. On many evenings Charles would be found playing catch with the boys, or fly-up, or a variety of other games. Then Elizabeth would help Jennifer Welcome the Task sew, or work on some piece of handwork she wanted finished. Jennifer thought her family life was as perfect as could be. Their parents had never sent them to church, they had taken them. Each week they held a family home evening. Each _ evening they had family prayer. It was not mandatory, but was looked forward to so greatly, that it was seldom missed if it was possible to be home at that time. On this particular evening the boys were gone and Jennifer was alone with her parents. "You have seemed restless, Jenny," her father commented. "Is there anything bothering you?" Jennifer sighed. "Oh, I don't know. I can't put my finger on any one thing being wrong, but I feel as if I should be doing something I'm not." "We don't want to pry, dear," her mother told her, "but are things getting serious between you and Steve?" Jennifer didn't answer right away. Then, suddenly, she was glad she was so close to her parents, so she could talk with them. She knew that if there was need for advice, they would give some, and it would be good. She told them about the conversation with Steve. "I didn't really worry about it before," she commented upon completion of her story. "Oh, I guess I wondered at times how he felt about me, but I accepted his not saying anything, and even his staying away for two or three weeks at a time without explanation. I know how busy he is. But I didn't wonder much. Bringing it out in the open must have 831 November 1968 upset some balance or something, because now I feel unsure of him, and also unsure of how I feel. Maybe the fault is mine. I suppose most girls would be worried if the object of their affections was noncommital and_ stayed away for weeks at a time." "Well," her father commented, "many people react differently to situations. You've never been the type of person who gets too excited, on the outside." "IT sound like a dull person," Jennifer commented wryly. "T didn't mean to imply that," her father answered. 'What he means, Jenny," her mother said, looking fondly at husband and daughter, "is that you can meet problems with a logical, mature attitude. You aren't emotionless, though, we all know that." uJ ennifer sighed. She was really wondering about herself at this point. Summer was coming. She hadn't secured a job. She had no plans. She did feel dull and trapped. This thing with Steve could go on forever, and, perhaps, end in heartbreak, when some younger girl might sweep him off his feet. Jennifer couldn't let her family support her forever. They had Dave in high school, Pete in junior high, and Sam in the fifth grade. She knew that if her mother could possibly have heart surgery, as had been recommended by a specialist in Salt Lake, that would eat into the budget. The more she thought, the more confused she became. They had sat silently, each thinking his own thoughts for nearly half an hour. Elizabeth spoke first. "How would you like 832 to get away this summer, Jenny?" Jennifer looked incredulous. "Where?" "Well, my cousin Bea McPherson telephoned the other night, and mentioned how she would like to have you come for an extended visit, and your father and I thought you might enjoy spending the summer. In Houston." "But don't you need me here? I should get a job." Charles spoke up. "We can have Mrs. Bates come more often," he said, referring to the housekeeper they had hired while Jennifer was in England. "And, as for money, you know we have saved enough for each of you children's educational needs and missions." "You need not decide immediately," her mother said, "but we thought that we would present the idea to you. Goodness knows you have had little vacation in many years." "And," her father added, "Bea has been quite lonely since John's death. She is a young woman yet, and the two of you should be good for one another." John McPherson had been killed in a tragic accident six months earlier. "T will think about it, and I can never thank you enough for being such wonderful parents," Jennifer said sincerely, as she prepared to go up to study for awhile. She was thinking of a summer in Houston, what new things it might bring, as compared to a summer in Springville waiting for something to happen. What would happen if she were in Houston and Steve were here? She wondered briefly before opening a sociology text. (To be continued) Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, and Florence S. Jacobsen, President of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, were special guests for two days at the Hemisfair and were honored at a reception in the Women's Pavilion. Mrs. Vivian Hamlin, President of the Women's Pavilion, presented the two Latter-day Saint leaders with ''Distinguished Visitor's Certificates,'' and lauded them for their leadership among the women of the Church. The Singing Mothers held a reception at the Mormon Pavilion for Mrs. Spafford and Mrs. Jacobsen. Four hundred Singing Mothers of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints presented four concerts at the Hemisfair in San Antonio, Texas, in August 1968. The singers represented Oklahoma, Arkansas, Louisiana, and Texas, and were praised by many visitors and were especially complimented by the Vice-President of the United States, Hubert Humphrey, and John Connally, Governor of Texas. Mrs. Byron (Joan) Fisher, twenty-nine, of Salt Lake City, was crowned Mrs. America of 1969 in Saint Paul, Minnesota, August 23, 1968, being chosen from among fifty-one delegates representing the States of the Union. Mother of three children, she is a Brigham Young University graduate, a substitute schoolteacher and a teacher in the Mutual Improvement Association Laurel class in her ward. She has been a volunteer guide for visitors at the Beehive House, restored home of Brigham Young. Mrs. Don L. (Alice) Buehner, Salt Lake City, was Mrs. America 1965, and in 1967 Mrs. Dean (Jaynann) Payne, Provo, was first runner-up in the Mrs. America contest. Caroline Eyring Miner, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, and member of the General Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, mother, schoolteacher, and civic leader, has compiled—especially for mothers—a book of wit and wisdom expressed in both poetry and prose. Titled There's Always Mother, tt contains some of her own delightful work. (Deseret Book Publishing Company.) Doctors Rebecca Buckley and Susan B. Dees, in research to learn why some children catch every disease that comes along while others are almost immune—an unsolved puzzle to the medical profession—discovered that many susceptible children have deficiencies of gammaz-globulin in their blood serum. This was true of twice as many boys as girls. This may prove to be of significance. Betty W. Madsen was the 1968 prize-winner in the fourth annual contest of the Utah State Poetry Society for a volume of poems, The Amaranth. Mrs. Madsen has contributed many poems of high literary and emotional quality to The Relief Society Magazine. Mrs. Kate B. Carter, national president, Daughters of the Utah Pioneers, was a speaker at the dedication of the Monument to the Pioneer Women of Arizona, in Phoenix, Arizona. A poem ''In Memoriam" by Bertha Kleinman, outstanding contributor for many years to The Relief Society Magazine, was read. The monument, portraying a copper figure of a mother and child on a granite base and background is believed to be the only monument to pioneer women in the United States. Ann Strobel, several years ago, became the lone woman caster among 106 fishermen to enter a tournament in Spa, Belgium. She won. She has since captured spin and fly tournaments in many places and is now considered the world's top caster. E e 833 Volume 55 November 1968 Number 11 # Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor ® Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor w Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp 834 Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa }. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson * Norma B. Ashton TELL IT Walk about Zion, and go round about her: tell the towers thereof. Mark ye well her bulwarks, consider her palaces; that ye may tell it to the generation following. (Psalms 48:12-13.) In the days of harvest when the fruits of the earth are gathered once more and the cycle of the year is completed, there are many who feel to rejoice in their blessings. Whatever the season of harvest, though the time be different in the hemispheres, the contemplation of gratitude and the words of thankfulness have similarities in all the lands of the earth. It is natural for those who have received an inheritance, a_ portion of the earth for their homeland, to praise the Giver and express their gratitude. A feeling of reverence has been recorded throughout the generations, as the Psalmist said: ''The mighty God... Hath spoken, and called the earth from the rising of the sun to the going down thereof."' (Psalms 50:1.) Love of home, reluctance to leave, and joy upon returning are inherent in the lives of people everywhere—those who dwell in the shadow of northern mountains, the people of the plains, inhabitants of islands where summer is continuous, and the people of deserts and wilderness. Marize her thoughts re. OuNdaries. To h Mage. At tj es ay SONg the Saints so dearly love, ret something Whis Cred, 'You're Ss nd |! Felt that | ha wandered from asked to d Mountains that WaS so 8rateful for h ] as the king's daughter | y women, also » Who fee] a deep, relationship of families—dey ] USband Xx On to Parents, | » Gevotion to Children, all a he Heavenly Father has pre en everywhere, €N who have been given Pattern he Counsel] of th ' 4Nd for alj the days rand Consider Well the ] have eterna] life, but SO tO pass: "Christ will reign Pers ] and receive it Onally upon the €arth; an S Paradisj 835 ATTENTION: English-speaking Southern Hemisphere Stakes and Missions @ In the Southern Hemisphere, where eight cultural refinement lessons are needed and only seven are published in The Relief Society Magazine, the General Board suggests that each Englishspeaking stake and mission use the eighth cultural refinement lesson period to review the objectives of the seven preceding lessons, pointing out the values which have come to the class members in their lives as women, in applying the objectives to their own lives. Seven assignments might be made in each ward or branch. Since the. Ward or branch class leader has not presented all the selections from the text Out of the Best Books, Volume 4, she may bring unused selections from the text into her lesson. Fo = "IN WHOLENESS OR IN PART" "According to your faith,'' he said; his word Of healing was as gentle as his touch, And two who once were blind, having much Of faith, could see again. The day | heard The story | was low on faith... Suppose | thought, the one but half-believed, and when Through clouded eyes he saw the Lord—then Was full faith his? It must be that those With scanty measure of belief inherit Scanty blessings. One needs a deeper trust, A greater love, a more committed heart, Unwavering in the sudden storm, to merit Jesus' touch. For as your faith, so must Your blessing be... In wholeness or in part. —Mabel Jones Gabbott 836 A True Story As Told to Helen Romrell w Ann sat at her desk—usually letters were so easy to write, but today was different. Christmas was almost here, but with all the excitement and_ preparations, Ann still felt a little apprehensive—how would Steve, her firstborn, spend Christmas this year? Germany was such a long way from Idaho, and even though he was completely absorbed in his missionary work, she still worried about him. This would be his first Christmas away from home. She knew he would miss his brothers and sister and the happiness they all shared at this special time of year. Well, she must hurry if she was to catch the postman and still make it to Relief Society on time. Smiling now, she quickly added messages from the younger children and encouragement and love from all. She reread the letter, and was sure that it did not betray her feelings. As she stepped out the door to put her letter in the box, she met the postman coming up the walk. He smiled as he saw her scanning the letters in his hand, looking for the familiar blue aerogramme. Cheerfully they exchanged greetings and Ann hurried inside. She sat down in the easy chair and slowly opened the precious letter, for she savored this moment. It was almost like hearing Steve's voice as she read his words, and a smile filled her face. The spell was soon broken as she looked at the clock. She had better hurry or Sister Adams would think she wasn't coming to pick her up. Later, seated in the cozy Relief Society room, decked out in Christmas finery today, her mind went back to the letter, as she listened to the music and waited for the meeting to begin. Wasn't it just too wonderful! Steve wouldn't be spending Christmas alone after all. In his 837 November 1968 letter he had told of a wonderful family who had invited him to share their Christmas with them. Her heart was full of gratitude as she thought of this unknown nonmember family who were giving—giving a gift of love— wasn't that what the lesson brought out today? As the social relations lesson "A City on a Hill," with its beautiful message of Christmas unfolded, Ann again felt grateful to those who had true love in their hearts, and were willing to share. The lesson was finished all too soon—Ann hated to break the magical spell, and was engrossed in her own thoughts as she heard Sister Wright say, "If anyone wishes to give a true gift of love this holiday season, I know a girl at college who is most deserving. She is from the East and cannot go home for Christmas. She will be all alone this season." Ann's heart pounded. She could hardly wait for the meeting to close. Would this be her chance to repay those unknown friends by giving a gift of love to another one in need? Quickly she found Sister Wright. "We would love to share our Christmas with the girl you mentioned—tell me more about her." The Wrights had made it a tradition to extend their Christmas beyond the normal limits of family and close friends, and this year as they were planning their special project, they had asked the help of a professor at college. He surely would know someone who needed help. With his assistance, they had made their plans, but today as Sister 838 Wright had listened to the lesson Linda's name kept coming to mind. Linda was one of the girls Professor Wilson had told them about while discussing possible projects, and now she told to Ann Linda's story. Linda was very shy, and had a difficult time looking people in the eye. She went around with her head down most of the time. Her parents sold stove wood for a living. Her mother wrote to her often and expressed her love for her, but her father never wrote. He seemed to resent her coming West for school, perhaps because he felt he could not help her as he should. She had worked to earn her own money to go to school. She was withdrawn, but courageous. She surely needed a gift of love! The arrangements were made and Ann and her whole family anxiously awaited Linda's arrival. A very small, shy, frightened girl came up the walk in a shapeless coat, carrying a very small suitcase and wearing a well-worn, drab, plain, green dress. It wasn't long until she responded to the warmth and the love of the family. She had no brothers, and Ann's four boys were a new experience to her in family living. She loved the baby! Ann and Linda got along well, and a close relationship soon developed between them. The following Sunday the bishop asked all of the students home for the holidays to bear their testimonies and tell about their schools. As he called on Linda, he explained she was a convert of only two years, and was a guest in the ward. Would she care to respond? It took a great deal of courage for Linda to respond with her sweet, humble testimony, and the hearts of the ward members were touched. On the following Wednesday Linda went to Relief Society with Ann and met many of the sisters in the ward. Again she wore the plain green dress, the only dress she had brought with her for a two-weeks visit! Ann took Linda_ shopping, and together they picked out some lovely woolen material, and Ann made her a beautiful wool dress, the first wool dress she had ever owned. How thrilled she was! Not long afterwards, Sister Wright called. She wanted to do something for Linda, too. Would she like to go shopping for a new coat? Linda was hesitant at first, but soon warmed to the graciousness of Sister Wright. It was a radiant, happy girl who returned home that evening in a most becoming red coat. Linda left Ann's home on Christmas Eve to spend the night and part of Christmas day with her roommate in a nearby town. They had wanted to be together, and these were the only two days Twice Blest they could accommodate her. As she left, her arms were full of gaily wrapped packages, gifts from many members of the ward. No one had organized a plan, no one spread the word of her need, but many families had sensed her need and individually responded with a gift of love for this sweet gir]! On Christmas morning things were not quite the same at Ann's home. The family was excited, opening their gifts, but something was missing! But not for long— suddenly the telephone rang. It was Linda! She was thinking of them, missing them, and wanting to share the excitement of this very special Christmas with them. "Perhaps the best gift of all" Linda's voice broke, "I just received a letter from my father! My very first! And he sent me ten dollars, and more important, for the first time that I can remember, he told me that he loves me." Ann's eyes were full of tears as she put the telephone up. She turned, walked away from the family noise and into Linda's room. "Here I thought I was doing something for someone, helping someone else, and it is I who have been blessed!" Ann whispered. R CHOICE Who walks with lowered eyes Instead of gazing far May find a penny, lost, But miss the evening star. —Vesta N. Fairbairn _ 839 Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts _ CONTRASTS Gs eee | usedsto: think the fabric ~ ~ Of my days should be A web of bright and shining strands, Unshaded, shadow-free. But years have yielded wisdom; | have learned, instead, We weave the tapestry of life With variegated thread. —Helen M. Terry THE APRON Mae R. Winters w One of the fondest memories that I have of my mother is her apron. She always wore one. It was a large straight affair gathered at the waist, with strings that fastened in the back and tied in a bow. The apron was very full. I am sure it had in it several yards of material, gingham or calico for everyday, and fine white lawn or linen, with handmade lace on the bottom, for best. I distinctly remember a very special one, with knitted lace insertion an inch or so wide, with the same matching lace on the bottom. There was always at least one pocket, but usually two large ones. The white apron was for very special occasions: Relief Society homemaking activities, special quiltings, and parties for the sisters. Sunday afternoon it enhanced Mother's best black dress. The everyday one, slow to show dirt, was edged all around with bias tape of contrasting color. I was most impressed with this apron. Its uses were limitless. It made a basket for eggs gathered from the chicken coop, or from a nest found in the tall weeds or grass. Many times Mother would bring in a brood of fluffy yellow chickens in the apron, the bottom edge being brought up to form a temporary nest. The mother hen, squawking and stirring up a fuss, would follow behind. Mother transferred the chickens from a stolen nest to the protection of the stable. The same apron was used, by giving it a swish, to frighten chickens from the flower bed or back porch. To dry a tear from a child's face, wipe away the dirt, and comfort the children, the apron seemed to be made for this purpose. For a game of hide-and-seek there was never a better place to hide than under the apron, for, with our heads under, and our feet sticking out, we were completely hidden. Kindling and firewood, vegetables and fruit found their way into the kitchen by way of the apron route. When company came unexpectedly, the apron was hastily used as a duster on the dining table or buffet. Using it for a pot holder to remove hot pans from the stove, the apron was ideal to lift the steve lid off with the aid of the stove lifter, which saved many burned fingers. A flip of the apron would also scatter the flies, as they hovered about the screen at the kitchen door on a fall afternoon. It also served to wipe a perspiring brow after standing at the hot stove all day canning fruit. Almost everything could be found in the apron pockets: a spool of thread, lost buttons, peppermint candy, cookies, handkerchiefs, bits of paper, a pencil, a piece of string, safety pins, and a coin or two. For me, there is a never-to-be-forgotten memory of the little ones curled up on Mother's lap as she rocked them and pulled a corner of the big apron over their feet and legs, not alone for warmth, but as a sort of drawing them closer into her wonderful ways. She was a pioneer mother, with love to go around and around, and her wonderful apron was just one way of showing it. Tucked away in my chest of memories is one of her ever-useful aprons. In these days of sometimes forgotten aprons, it suggests to me that perhaps my own children and grandchildren have missed some very valuable lessons of life for the lack of a big apron. A very special accessory! 841 let's Make a Bag For Books Margaret Woods, Walsall, England a We prepare the lesson, accumulate the yisual aids, place them all ready—and then cannot think in what to carry them to meeting. But if we make a smart, simple bag that will be weatherproof, too, we shall always be ready. Then, if we make contrasting bags to hold each set of books, We shall be completely organized. The bag is large enough to hold several large magazines, plus three 'or four average size books. Adaptations can be made in the pattern for special sized books. For children's schoolbooks, 4 similar bag would be handy and durable. Material Needed one yard heavy durable material or plastic material for lining, if desired plastic clothesline for handles Procedure; in figure one. After cutting the 6-inch slit with corner Cut out the piece as shown ¥ inch) fold back edges of slot to wrong side and glue slashes (each not longer than in place. For woven fabrics omit the slashes, but bind the edges as for a large bound buttonhole. Hem the 13-inch edge. Fold, as indicated in figure one, wrong side outside, and sew side seams. Turn right side out and hem remaining edges. If a lining is desired, cut an identical pattern and sew it in before putting the bag together. Cut the handles as indicated in diagram 2. There will be two. Fold in half lengthi he length, leaving wise right side out wit a tube large enough to thread a piece front ina position to pass through the slot. Attach the 0 Tuck in the corners at the lower edge to form a wider base an the bottom of the bag. Of clothesline through. Sew one handle to the ther to correspond to the back. D tack them to 842 ay; C/ —— STEAMED BREAD—AN OLD-FASHIONED DELICACY Ida Isaacson @ My grandmother used to take odds and ends of bread and put them in a steamer, and presently the bread would be warm and moist and delectable. In this day, if we have leftover bread, we Should learn how to make it appetizing. Wouldn't our children just love that moist, warmed, steamed bread, with butter? My grandmother used an old-fashioned colander in which she placed dried biscuits and white or whole-wheat bread and corn bread. She placed the colander over a pan of water, then put a napkin over the bread and a lid on the top to keep the steam in. The pieces of bread were delicious. A double boiler with a tight lid can be used. Put the dry bread in the top, and the water in the bottom. Sprinkle a few drops of steam it for at least ten minutes. Homemakers would like to try this method ning when there isn't AN ARTIST WITH A NEEDLE Zerviah S. Greene Smith, Cache Stake, Logan, Utah,. Has led a busy, active life, and has enriched the lives of friends and family through her skill with the needle. She crochets doilies, baby sweaters, and bootees by the score. She has also knitted numerous sweaters, afghans, and slippers. During the First and Second World Wars she knitted scarves, socks and sweaters for soldiers. Her talents also include making beautiful quilts, rugs, and clothing of all kinds. Sister Smith considers her genealogical work as her greatest accomplishment. She has made it possible for temple work to be done for thousands of names, bringing great happiness into hundreds of families. Her own large family book has been microfilmed for use in genealogy libraries. Sister Smith has served as a Relief Society visiting teacher, and in other auxiliaries of the Church, and has been a member of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers for many: years. She has four daughters, sixteen grandchildren, fifty-five great grandchildren, and two great-great-grandchildren. On her ninetieth birthday, four years ago, fifty of her descendants were present to honor her. To all of them she has truly been an inspiration and joy. 844 Af, Spring Be Late- @ Any plans for making use of the castle or its grounds were left in abeyance for the time being. The Taggarts planned to visit for a day in Edinburgh and then return home by way of the coastal highway through the Lowlands. Maureen decided to remain in the village to do further research at the castle library. Before leaving, they all went over to the churchyard to look over the ancient family burial ground. A gardener at work informed them that the great yew tree on the grounds was one of the oldest in that part of the country. Maureen was somewhat surprised to find how many of the headstones bore the name of Taggart. "Do you have any records within the church?" she asked. "Yes, Miss, to be sure," was the answer. "But you'll have to Chapter 8 (Conclusion) Mabel Harmer see the minister about that. My concern is only with the growing things out here." She was very much interested. Right here at the seat of her ancestral home, she might find a wealth of material for her family research. The records might even equal those at the castle. When she_ contacted the minister, however, he said that he feared she would find little that was new to her work. He said that photostatic copies had been made of all of their records and he was sure she had seen most of them, either at the Public Records Office or at Somerset House. The library at the castle was a different matter, however. In addition to the huge Bible, with its lengthy records, there were numerous volumes which gave promise of other data. The prospect of rewards looked enticing 845 November 1968 —providing she could surmount the problems involved. It was so cold in the library that she dreaded the thoughts of spending many hours there at any one time. Transportation to and from her hotel at the village created another problem. She partially solved the first by wearing all the warm clothing she owned and, for the second, she purchased a bicycle. It meant an hour's pedaling morning and evening, sometimes in the rain. The one bright feature was that the uphill ride was in the morning when she was fresh, and the downhill in late afternoon, which turned out to be rather fun. On the third morning of her work she was happily surprised to find a blazing log in the fireplace. "How wonderful!" she exclaimed. "But where did you get the wood? I haven't seen any trees near enough to be cut and carried here." "The wood wasn't the main problem," Robert answered. "I keep rather a good supply on hand. The problem was to get the chimney cleaned out. I had to rustle a good, old-fashioned chimney sweep for that task." "You can't imagine how grateful I am," she said. "Just to see that cheerful fire lifts my spirits no end. I shall move over as close as I can to do my work." "You'll: have to move close to get much good out of it," he agreed. "After all these years it will take more than one day's warming to penetrate much of this cold." A few days later the sun broke through with such warmth that 846 Maureen scarcely needed her sweater for the ride to the castle. Just inside the gates at the cottage, Robert met her, saying, "Guess what? You get a holiday. I've packed a lunch and we are going for a picnic." "How lovely!" she responded. "Where do we go?" "Just a climb up that hill to the east. There is a waterfall— small but beautiful—which you must see. It's a good thing you are wearing those stout walking shoes. The climb isn't far, but it is fairly rough." Maureen was glad for a holiday. With the sunshine so bright and the sweet smells of spring in the air, she had not looked forward to going into the dark rooms of the castle. Robert led the way, carrying a blanket and the picnic basket. There was just the barest suggestion of a path and, at times, he stopped to help her over a rock or a place that was extra steep. By the time they reached the waterfall, she had to pause for breath to exclaim over its beauty. "T was sure you would appreciate it," he said, as he spread the blanket. "Now, sit down and rest while you enjoy the view." Below the glen stretched out to the castle grounds and beyond, where some of the orchards were just now beginning to show their first blossoms. "T had hoped to see more spring flowers," she said. "The daffodils on the mall toward Buckingham Palace were all in full bloom last week.". "Usually we have more here, too, at this time of year. But spring is late. However," he added with a smile, "if spring be late, my love, do not deplore. You'll savor summer's glories all the more." For amoment Maureen was too much taken back to make an answer or comment of any kind. Had he been quoting when he said "my love," or had he spoken the words with any degree of meaning? Finally, she said, "You are a poet as well as an artist, it seems." "Only at times such as this," he replied. "I think that you would find Scotland quite enchanting, if you should decide to remain." "Yes," she agreed, somewhat hesitantly. "I think that I should." "Then we must do all that we can to make you sure," he said, opening the lunch basket. Zo _—_— —— = f They ate more or less in si- —_ ° '~ lence. Then Maureen, anxious to keep to a safe subject, asked, "What flowers do you have here, besides the heather, that is?" If Spring Be Late "Ah, what flowers do we not have!" he exclaimed. "In the summer there are hedgerows fragrant with honeysuckle, and pink and white roses. Or they are golden with ragwort. The meadows are rich with the rosyred spikes of the loosestrife and willow herb—of white and pink drifts of cow-parsnip and angelica, pink heads of field thistles, yellow heads of sow thistles. There is the hog-bean, a close ally of the gentian, and the slender water lobelia, with its nodding, pale lilac flowers. I suppose I need not remind you of the bluebells. Ah, you must see Scotland in the summer!" "Now I know that you are a poet," said Maureen lightly. "And remember, I am a librarian. I know poetry when I hear it." "As you will," he responded with a smile and a shrug. "For you [ shall be a poet." On their return to the cottage, she stopped briefly to greet the two children, who had just returned from school, and then made her way back to the hotel. She was too much involved emotionally to go to work in the dark library of the castle. | Back in her room; she settled down as best she could to think. Unless she was very much mistaken, Robert McPherson's words had been the beginning of a serious courtship. No, actually it had begun at Christmas time when he gave her the painting of the cottage. She had denied it to the suggestions of the family and to herself. She could not deny it any longer. "Tf spring be late, my love. The spring in her life was late. She had passed now into its 93 847 November 1968 summer. But would she "savor summer's glories all the more?" Perhaps. What a lovely place and setting for romance! First, the charming and_ personable Robert McPherson. Then, the delightful children—a _readymade family who could well use a mother. The cottage, which she had loved practically unsight and unseen. She must get away, and quickly, to think this over before she succumbed to the spell of its enchantment. She would go and visit the homes of Bobbie Burns and Sir Walter Scott, for she couldn't dream of leaving Scotland without doing this, in any case. Now was certainly the right time. She would go to Scott's Abbottsford and Burn's Ayrshire. By then she would go back to England and collect her thoughts and emotions in a more mundane atmosphere. She spent one last day at the castle, working in the library, and then announced that she had completed her work there and was leaving for a tour of the homes of the literary giants of Scotland. The three McPhersons were openly regretful to see her leave —Jeannie and Jamie quite vocally SO. "But there are hundreds of books in the library," said Jamie. "Are you quite sure that you have read them all?" "No, but I have read the ones I thought would help me with my work. The others I shall have to leave until another day." "If you will stay I will bake you a cake," said Jeannie. "And I shall write you a poem," said her father. 848 Maureen had a hard time keeping her composure. For a moment she was sorely tempted to say, "Yes, I'll stay.". Instead, she said, "I thank you all very much, but I'm afraid that I shall have to go. Perhaps I can come back some other day and read the books, enjoy the cake, and hear the poem." She kissed the children and gave her hand to Robert who held it for several long moments. "We'll be waiting for you," he said. She hurried away, but when she reached the bend in the road she looked back for a last glance at the castle and the cottage. Early the next morning she took a bus for Abbotsford. This part of Scotland was new to her, and she enjoyed it very much. Over and over again she asked herself the question, "Could I be happy here?" So far there was no definite answer. Ni ot even when she arrived back at Bahlen and to the routines she had left, could she find any answer. "One thing is sure," she told herself, "my work here is done. I can no longer be satisfied to ride into London each day and pore over the same books at the libraries.", She arranged for photostatic copies to be made of the records in the great family Bible. She did not plan to take the book itself away. She thought that it should remain in Britain—perhaps even at the castle. When the work was finished, she gave it back to Bruce to keep or return as he might decide. 'Between the records in London and what I found at Kirk- wood, I've done far better at my research than I had ever hoped to do. I've seen the castle and found my treasure there. I think perhaps I shall plan on returning home soon." "We had hoped that you would stay,' Bruce began. "You in the cottage and we in the castle," interposed Kitty. "Although, of course, if you prefer the castle, there is ample room for all of us." "Of the two,' said Maureen with a smile, "I should much prefer the cottage, believe me. But I wouldn't dream of disturbing the present occupants." "T wasn't thinking of disturbing them either," related Kitty. "And if you don't take Robert, I shall hurry and grow up so that I may have him." "You have my permission. Now all you need is that of your parents and that of the gentleman concerned." Maureen had hoped to see Diane married before she left, but the young couple felt that they should wait until Sydney was out of school, otherwise Diane would have to leave her work and move to Cambridge, which was out of the question for the present. He had agreed that they should be married by the Mormon elders and, for this, both Diane and Maureen were very grateful. "T feel that this is one more choice reward for my coming here," Maureen said. "I am sure that Sydney will come into the Church and you will both find eternal happiness." "T, also, am sure," said Diane. "Meeting you on the boat was the greatest blessing imaginable. I If Spring Be Late only wish that you could find the same happiness." "Perhaps I shall,' Maureen smiled. She had planned on touring some of the principal countries of Europe before her return and had decided to start with Holland, since the tulip season was now in full swing. Two days before she was to leave she received an airmail letter from Steve Madsen. "I can't make it all the way to Shannon this time," he wrote. "But New York City is on the agenda. If you are planning to return home in May—as you once indicated—I can be at the Kennedy airport any day—any hour—in that first week. All I need is the assurance that there will be a passenger who would be willing to be met." She made a quick change in her plans. "Paris will have to wait for some later trip," she said. "Much as I would love to verify the glories of Paris in the spring. So will Rome. It is more important now to get an early plane to New York City." She found that she could get reservations in Amsterdam, which suited her plans perfectly. In fact, everything seemed to be shaping up altogether perfect. © n a day in late April she bade farewell to her cousins and Diane and left for Dover where she would take the ferry to Calais and then a train to Holland. "At least I shall see part of France in the springtime, if I do have to miss Paris," she said. "And I'm sure that even a brief view of France will be worthwhile." Her two days in Holland were 849 November 1968 a delight. To ride through acres and acres of tulip fields, bright with blossoms, was something she had expected to see only in pictures. A day at Keukenhof —the beautiful park planted by the various growers, was another delight. The lovely gardens of tulips, in hundreds of different varieties, the hyacinths and daffodils presented a riot of color. She saw beauty even in the brick-lined streets and the never-ending lines of bicycle riders. The air was almost balmy as she took the limousine for the airport. At the desk the clerk asked, '"'Where to, Miss?" She hesitated. She had intended to say, "New York," but the words didn't come. She tried gan ax4~ INTERVAL Today | saw him sitting in the sun, VAY 4 wd gr IrI™® VINI WI to picture Steve Madsen waiting for her at the airport, but the image was dim. The clerk looked at her expectantly and repeated his question. "To London," she said. "I am returning to London." Then, while awaiting her plane, she wrote two letters. One was addressed to Steve Madsen in Salt Lake City. The other to the McPherson family in Kirkwood, Scotland. The latter read simply, "I am coming back. This is to remind Jeannie of her promise to bake a cake. For Jamie to gather an armful of bluebells, and for Robert McPherson to write a poem. I am looking forward to a very long and very happy summer." Maureen. His well-worn hat pulled down to shade his eyes, His shoulders bowed through years of endless toil To wrest a meager living from the soil. With trembling hands grasping a battered cane, He waits until the summer comes again. —Elena Hassell Stanley 850 MY COMPANION Pillar strength you lend me, Not a pillar plain, But fluted with the force of love, Crowned with the beauty patience lends, Firmly based with understanding, Made of finer stuff than earth. —Julie Wilson — ———— | ots _~ ~* = —— Sr Nae 4 FROM THE FIELD \ er All material as for publication in this department should be sent through the stake lief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be, aS Space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the orial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding ures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities Provo Stake (Utah) Relief Society Creates History of The Relief Society Magazine in Displays, May 3, 1968 Ward Relief Society presidents of Provo Stake, left to right: Immogene Timmons, First Ward; Amy Thomas, Manavu Ward; Bernice Rowe, Fifth Ward: Faye Jones, Seventh Ward; stake officers: Margo Fechser, Homemaking Counselor; Jane Call, President; Leah Lewis, Education Counselor; Marjorie Peterson, Sixteenth Ward; Maxine Elliott, Tenth Ward; Rosella Rieske, Twenty-Third Ward, Sister Call reports: ''For a spring social, the Provo Stake Relief Society, with the help of the ward Relief Societies, arranged a special display depicting the history of The Relief Society Magazine. 'Each ward prepared one or two large tables with handwork and other ideas from the Magazine, with Magazines open to pictures and articles. The stake board prepared a display, with Magazines dating back to the first issue ever printed. Refreshments were taken from recipes in the Magazine, as were decorations. "Each person was given a small Magazine with the cover being a copy of the first Magazine ever printed. Inside were choice excerpts from early Magazines. "Clever posters advertising the Magazine were on display, along with a scroll showing Provo Stake on the Honor Roll every year, except one, since its organization in 1939."' 851 Reena ee reer eee November 1968 East Mill Creek Stake (Utah), East Mill Creek Seventh Ward Presents Mothers Day Social, May 3, 1968 East Mill Creek Seventh Ward Relief Society officers, seated, left to right: Gloria Bowers, First Counselor; Faye Olsen, President; Erma Bentley, Second Counselor. Standing, left to right: Doris Westbrook, quilting chairman; Evah Goodman, Secretary; Virginia McMahon, homemaking leader. Quata L. Howells, President, East Mill Creek Stake Relief Society, reports: "'A Mothers Day social was held for members of the ward and their families. A lovely dinner was served to 350. A program, featuring families depicting how to make home evenings special through song and dance, was presented, with even the youngest children participating. "A special gift booth featuring Mothers Day gifts and a booth with delicious homebaked treats raised the needed funds for the year's activities.'' Taylorsville West Stake (Utah), Taylorsville Ninth Ward Bazaar "It Happens Every Spring'"' May 10, 1968 Karen Van de Graff, homemaking leader, Taylorsville Ninth Ward, at notions booth of bazaar. June Barker, President, Taylorsville West Stake Relief Society, reports: ''A very successful bazaar was held in the Taylorsville Ninth Ward of our stake. The theme for the bazaar was, 'It Happens Every Spring.' "To show love for the bishop, the Relief Society sisters made a quilt which was presented to him during the bazaar. Each family wishing to participate had the name of the family head on the quilt."' Oahu Stake (Hawaii) Singing Mothers Present ''Love Makes the World Go 'Round"' April 20, 1968 Members of the Oahu Stake Relief Society board, seated, at left; Elaine Mayfield, Second Counselor; second from left: Rita Stone, First Counselor; tenth from left: Betty Skinner, President; Barbara Conway, narrator for the program; Carolyn Hannemann, organist; Myrna Fairbanks, chorister. Sister Skinner reports: ''The Church College of Hawaii was the setting for the Singing Mothers concert and art show sponsored by our stake. The theme was 'Love makes. The World Go 'Round.' It was carried out in song, readings, and dances pertaining to the cultural backgrounds of the many islands of the Pacific as well as the oriental countries. "The song, 'Labor of Love,' written by Joanne Doxey, led off a tribute to Howard B. Stone, late president of Oahu Stake. A portrait of President Stone was unveiled and presented to his wife, Rita. 'Many paintings done by sisters in the stake were on display in the foyer."' 852 November 1968 | Glendale Stake (California), Glendale East Ward ''Marriage-Go-Round"' Bazaar May 25, 1968 Left to right: Enid Crownover, Education Counselor, Glendale East Ward Relief Society; Jan Callister, Homemaking Leader; Trudy Hess; Inez Burns, President. Unita W. Welch, President, Glendale Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Glendale East Ward held a unique bazaar. It was a midday affair featuring three wedding events: bridal shower, wedding reception, and at home, shown at three different homes. Luncheon was served at garden tables. "Displays and bazaar items were keyed to each event portrayed. The event was enthusiastically supported by the ward, and many heretofore inactive sisters were in attendance."' ltt Bakersfield Stake (California), Bakersfield Fourth Ward Makes Numerous Kinds of Quilts Seated, left to right: Alene Davis Bowers and Alfrieta Baker Moyes, quilting committee chairmen, Bakersfield Fourth Ward. Barbara S. Gabbitas, President, Bakersfield Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Within three years, the sisters in the Bakersfield Fourth Ward have made numerous quilts of all types and sizes, twenty-five baby quilts and others large, small, and twin-bed sizes. ''Mabel Smith McDougall was honored for her lovely applique work on baby quilts. She has been a member of the Bakersfield Fourth Ward since November 1919, when it was organized. '"'We are very pleased with the efforts of the sisters of this ward." ————- Australian West Mission, Remote Darwin Branch Relief Society Celebrates Anniversary, March 14, 1968 Left to right: Margaret Grimes, Secretary, Darwin Branch Relief Society; Semah Mojid, First Counselor; Dorothy Kerr, President; Vidella Vance, missionary. Julia G. Hess, Supervisor, Australian West Mission Relief Society, reports: "The members of the tiny Darwin Branch held a social function in honor of the anniversary of the organization of Relief Society. ''A meal was prepared and served by the sisters. Invitations had been sent to all members of the branch. A program was held and a bazaar followed. "Darwin is a thriving branch, and we are proud of it. It is the most remote branch in the Church, 1600 miles from any other branch of the Church. Their Relief Society is well attended and active." me ee ales WE fas November 1968 Palomar Stake (California) Presents Bazaar, ''Hawaiian Style," May 26, 1968 Officers of the San Dieguito Ward Relief Society, left to right: Phyllis Schwartlose, First Counselor; Carol Jane Christensen, Second Counselor; Lorraine Brewer, President; Sally Moore, homemaking leader; Lois Wages, Secretary-Treasurer. Phyllis Fox, President, Palomar Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Nine wards participated in our bazaar. Stake relationships with the wards were greatly strengthened. All proceeds from items sold in the booths were kept in the respective wards. "A prize was awarded to the San Dieguito Ward for designing the most authentic and original booth in keeping with our Hawaiian theme." San Diego Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present ''Eternal Spring'' Concert April 26, 1968 San Diego Stake Relief Society officers, left to right: Birdie Best, chorister; Thair Milne, President; Jeanne Robinson, Education Counselor; Karen McGlamory, accompanist; Anne Riggs, organist. Sister Milne reports: ''Our Singing Mothers concert was themed 'Eternal Spring.' It was beautifully presented amid an atmosphere of lovely flowers. Corsages in Relief Society colors weve worn by the 140 singers, giving an appearance of a vast flower garden. 'All who participated and attended were aware. Of the high standard of Relief Society being upheld. Many hours of practice and preparation were responsible for. An outstanding program. Refreshments were served at the close of the concert." Wells Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Singing Mothers Present Concert February 23, 1968 Seated front and center, left to right: Joyce Vuyk, narrator; Lucile K. Salisbury, chorister; Lou H. Winegar, organist. Pearl E. Lund, President, Wells Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Over 600 people attended the Wells Stake Singing Mother's Concert. The theme for the event was 'The Song of the Heart.' A chorus of 110 presented a program of semi-classical, religious, and patriotic songs. A medley of Dutch folk songs was sung by a double quartette from the Netherlands Branch in their native costumes. "The narrative script was adapted from an editorial by Vesta P. Crawford appearing in the February 1967 issue of The Relief Society Magazine."' o & eS << s * ae ow orn & eds —— en - x November 1968 Visiting Teachers ENomptily San Joaquin Stake (California) Visiting Teacher Convention, May 9, 1968 Seated, left to right: Martha Miner, organist, San Joaquin Stake Relief Society; Ramona Larson, First Counselor; Zina Shumway, President; Flora Carson, Second Counselor; Garda Meecham, chorister. 858 4 The Doctrine and Covenants SPIRITUAL LIVING Lesson 93: The Nauvoo Temple and Its Higher Ordinances Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: D&C 124:25-44.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman prepares herself for the higher ordinances of the temple as her circumstances permit. INTRODUCTION One of the distinguishing features of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is temple building. Beautiful buildings, some of which are called temples, have been constructed In many parts of the world, but none of these edifices has the same function and purpose as a temple built by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The earliest reference to a structure like a temple is the Tabernacle carried by the Israelites in the wilderness after coming out of Egyptian bondage. Because of the nature of the sacred ordinances performed, the Lord referred in a modern revelation to the need for the Tabernacle. This tabernacle was to be "with them in the wilderness..." (D&C 124:38) until a house of the Lord could be built in the land of Canaan where the Lord would reveal ordinances to his people. There is little information concerning the actual ordinances performed in the temples of the past. It is evident that a knowledge of temple ordinances was known very early, perhaps, however, not in fulness. (See Facsimile No. 2 in the Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham, Figures 3, 7, and 8.) The apostles Peter and Paul foresaw the day when there would be a restoration of all things spoken of by the prophets in the period known as the dispensation of the fulness of times. (Acts 3:19-21; Ephesians 1:9-10.) Since. Temples 859 November 1968 were a part of earlier dispensations, they would also be found among the Lord's people in the last days. These temples would be places where people from all nations would assemble to worship the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. (Isaiah 2:2-3; Micah 4:1-2.) Class Discussion Why would you expect temples to be found among the Lord's people in the latter days? KIRTLAND TEMPLE ~ The first templé erected in this dispensation was located at Kirtland, Ohio, and dedicated on March 27, 1836. It was in that year on April 3rd, the keys of the priesthood were restored. (D&C Section 110.) The Kirtland Temple was unhike other temples constructed later. Regular and special worship services and the School of the Prophets were conducted in that temple. NAUVOO TEMPLE From Missouri, the saints settled in Illinois at Commerce, later named Nauvoo, on the banks of the Mississippi River. In accordance with the commandment to build a temple at Nauvoo, the cornerstones were laid April 6, 1841. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts; 2d ed. Rev.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1957, Vol. 4, pp. 327-331 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC]; Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church His- 860 tory, 13th ed.; Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1953, pp. 308-309.) The walls of the temple were up to the windows at the time of the Prophet Joseph Smith's death, but the temple was completed to the attic and dedicated November 30, 1845 (DHC 7:534) so that endowments could be administered during the winter of 1845-46. The public dedication of the temple was held on May 1, 1846. (Essentials in Church History, p. 400.) A baptismal font was built in the basement of the Nauvoo Temple, and baptisms for the dead were performed in November 1841. (Essentials in Church History, p. 310.) The temple was burned in the fall of 1848, and the walls were blown down by a hurricane, May 27, 1850. Since the days of the Prophet Joseph Smith, thirteen other temples have been erected in the United States and in foreign countries. HIGHER ORDINANCES OF THE GOSPEL The higher ordinances of the gospel of Jesus Christ consist of those ceremonies and ordinances which are received in the House of the Lord. The fact that there are ordinances which are called "higher," suggests other principles and ordinances which are "lesser." The first principles and ordinances of salvation are faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repentance of sins, baptism in water for the remission of sins, and the laying on of hands for the reception of the Holy Ghost. (3 Nephi 27:13-21; D&C 33:10-11.) These principles are to be taught freely to all who will listen, but the higher ordinances are not to be revealed except in a temple. IMPORTANCE OF FIRST PRINCIPLES The New Testament teaches that without faith in Christ, repentance of sins, baptism by immersion for the, remission of sins, and receiving the Holy Ghost, it is impossible to "enter into the kingdom of God." (John 3:5; Acts 2:29-39; Romans 6:3-5.) THE NEW TESTAMENT AND HIGHER ORDINANCES The Savior taught his disciples many things which they were to know but which were not for the world. Similarly, the higher ordinances of the gospel may be received by the faithful, devoted member of the Church, but nonmembers and even some members of the Church, are not prepared to receive these temple ordinances. Wherein does the New Testament reveal that there is a segment of the gospel which is reserved for only the disciples? Upon one occasion the Savior took only Peter, James, and John with him on the Mount where a wonderful manifestation was received by them. Concerning this vision, the Savior advised his disciples: 'Tell the vision to no man, until the Son of man be risen again from the dead." (Matthew 17:9.) In answer to a question from his disciples as to why he taught the people in parables, the following was given:... Because it is given unto you to Lesson Department know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not given. For whosoever hath, to him shall be given, and he shall have more abundance: but whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken away even that he hath. Therefore speak I to them in parables: because they seeing see not; hearing they hear not, neither do they understand. (Matthew 13:11-13.) The apostle Paul had _ the experience of being caught up to heaven, and hearing words which were not lawful for man to utter. (2 Corinthians 12:2-4.) Thus the gospel in the meridian dispensation contained information which was not to be revealed to the multitudes, but the disciples were to receive these greater things of the kingdom. The Book of Mormon also bears testimony to this same truth, as expressed by the Prophet Alma: It is given unto many to know the mysteries of God; nevertheless they are laid under a strict command that they shall not impart only according to the portion of his word which he doth grant unto the children of men, according to the heed and diligence which they give unto him. (Alma 12:9.) However, what if an individual rejects the greater word? Alma continues: And therefore, he that will harden his heart, the same receiveth the lesser portion of the word; and he that will not harden his heart, to him is given the greater portion of the word, until it is given unto him to know the mysteries of God until he know them in full. And they that will harden their hearts, to them is given the lesser portion of the word until they know nothing concerning his mysteries; and then they are taken captive by the devil, and led by his will down to destruction. Now this is what is meant by the chains of hell. (Jbid., verses 10- 11.) 861 November 1968 A PROMISE FULFILLED In the teachings of the resurrected Christ to the Nephites, it is recorded that only the lesser part of what he taught the Nephites was written that they might be brought forth in the last days. If the people would receive this part, then the greater things would be given them. (3 Nephi 26:6-11.) Within a year after the Church was organized, the Lord revealed that Joseph Smith held "the keys of the mystery of those things which have been sealed" (D&C 30:18) and that these mysteries were to be known to the saints but not to the world. (D&C 42: 65.) The Lord's promise to his saints is, having its fulfillment today, in that those who are keeping the commandments receive the mysteries of the kingdom, which lead to everlasting life. (Ibid., 63:23.) HIGHER ORDINANCES The higher ordinances, or mysteries of the kingdom, administered in the temple consist of washings, anointings, the priesthood endowment, and marriage for eternity. When the Kirtland Temple was no longer in the possession of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the Lord rejected it as his house and promised that the "fulness of the priesthood..." (D&C 124:28) which can be received only in a temple, would be available to the members of the Church with the building of the Nauvoo Temple. (D&C 124:25-28; 40-44.) 862 In connection with the coming of Elijah in the last days, the Prophet Joseph Smith said that there would be a welding of other dispensations with this one, including the revealing of things from the foundation of the world. (D&C 127:8; 128:18.) MELCHIZEDEK PRIESTHOOD AND ORDINANCES In September of 1832, the Lord revealed that the Melchizedek Priesthood, sometimes called the "greater priesthood," holds the "key of the mysteries of the kingdom, even the knowledge of God." (D&C 84:19.) It-is also said that when Moses brought the children of Israel from Egyptian bondage, an effort was made to prepare the people to enter into the Lord's rest, which is the fulness of his glory where they could behold the face of God, but. They would not for they had hardened their hearts. (Ibid., verses 19-24.) Without the knowledge of God there is no salvation in its highest sense. T'o know God ultimately is to become like him, and thus receive all that the Father hath as an exalted being. (Ibid., verses 38-39.) As indicated, the means by which both men and women may receive the knowledge of God is received by ordinances and, thus, the faithful member of the Church by obedience to commandments may be exalted. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Doctrines of Salvation; Compiled by Bruce R. McConkie; 9th printing, 1965; Salt Lake City: Bookcraft; 3:142-143.) No person can receive the fulness of the priesthood except in the temple. (D&C 124:27-28; DHC 5:424.) PRIESTHOOD ENDOWMENT The Prophet Joseph Smith spent the day of May 4, 1842, in his private office instructing some of the brethren,.. Ln the principles and order of the Priesthood, attending to washings, anointings, endowments and the communication of keys pertaining to the Aaronic Priesthood, and so on to the highest order of the Melchisedek Priesthood, setting forth the order pertaining to the Ancient of Days, and all those plans and principles by which any one is enabled to secure the fullness of those blessings which have been prepared for the Church of the First Born, and come up and abide in the presence of the Eloheim in the eternal worlds...(DHC 5:1, 2.) Elder James E. Talmage defined the temple endowment, as follows: The Temple Endowment, as administered in modern temples, comprises instruction relating to the significance and sequence of past dispensations, and the importance of the present as the greatest and grandest era in human history. This course of instruction includes a recital of the most prominent events of the creative period, the condition of our first parents in the Garden of Eden, their disobedience and consequent expulsion from that blissful abode, their condition in the lone and dreary world when doomed to live by labor and sweat, the plan of redemption by which the great transgression may be atoned, the period of the great apostasy, the restoration of the Gospel with all its ancient powers and privileges, the absolute and _ indispensable condition of personal purity and devotion to the right in present life, and a strict compliance with Gospel requirements. (The House of the Lord; 3rd printing, 1963; Salt Lake City: Bookcraft; pp. 99-100.) Embodied in the endowment are opportunities for the participant to receive the necessary knowledge and covenants for eternal advancement. Elder Talmage continues his discussion of the endowment, as follows: Lesson Department The ordinances of the endowment embody certain obligations on the part of the individual, such as covenant and promise to observe the law of. Strict virtue and chastity, to be charitable, benevolent, tolerant and pure; to devote both talent and material means to the spread of truth and the uplifting of the race; to maintain devotion to the cause of truth; and to seek in every way to contribute to the great preparation that the earth may be made ready to receive her King,—the Lord Jesus Christ. With the taking of each covenant and the assuming of each obligation a promised blessing is pronounced, contingent upon the faithful observance of the conditions. (/bid., p. 100.) FAITHFUL WOMEN The Lord does not hold responsible those individuals of his Church who do not have the opportunity to fulfill commandments. If circumstances do not, at the present, allow for them to receive all of the ordinances of the gospel, they will probably be found in the situation in which Oliver Cowdery found himself: Behold, thou art Oliver, and I have spoken unto thee because of thy desires; therefore treasure up these words in thy heart. Be faithful and diligent in keeping the commandments of God, and I will encircle thee in the arms of my love. (D&C 6:20.) Other conditions being equal, desires go to judgment as well as deeds. Elder Harold B. Lee of the Council of the Twelve, in advising young women of the Church who had not the opportunity to marry a worthy member of the Church, said that for these women, by continuing to live worthy lives, the time would come when no blessing would be denied them. (Youth and the Church, p. 132.) 863 November 1968 Class Discussion Wherein is the justice of God shown in the truth that righteous desires go to judgment as well as deeds? IMPLEMENTATION The dispensation of the fulness of times was_ prophesied as a period when the teachings and practices of other dispensations would be restored to the earth. Among these would be the building of temples and the performance of sacred ordinances therein. Without these higher ordinances, known in scripture also as the mysteries of the kingdom, it would be impossible for men and women, eventually, to enter God's presence to receive the knowledge of God, which is exaltation in the celestial kingdom. Both men and women receive the blessings of the fulness of the priesthood in the temple, but they are laid under a strict command that they will not talk about this sacred knowledge outside of the temple. This commandment is because of the sacred nature of the higher ordinances of the gospel. The Lord gave his disciples this same instruction because others were not prepared for these mysteries. The holy endowment received in the House of the Lord qualifies the faithful member of the Church to receive the ordinances, covenants, and knowledge which prepare him for God's presence after the resurrection, and with the eternal marriage covenant, for exaltation. Some members of the Church, particularly women, because of their circumstances (not being married to a worthy member of the Church or being married to a nonmember, or unmarried) will not be denied their righteous desires, if they remain true to the covenants of baptism. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1968-69) Message 5—Effective Communication Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show how effective communication is an avenue to successful relationships. A few years ago a university professor was lying on the floor playing with his young son. The boy, reaching out, touched his father on the cheek, as he said, 864 "You have a nice face, Dad." The father thought to himself, one of the pleasures of parenthood is that your children at least think nice things. A few minutes later his son said, "It's nice to see your face again, Dad." His father replied, "Why do you say that? I haven't been away. I go to the University and I come back every day." "I know," exclaimed his son, "I know you are here, but usually when I look at you, I just see your legs and your tummy." In recounting this, the father said, "Now this is not much different from how we view things differently between the generations, and just an awareness of this fact may help solve some communication difficulties." How much of our failure in communication lies in the different vantage points from which we look at a problem or an occurrence in life? What role does our age, experience, our capabilities, sensitivity, awareness, and our point of view play in our interpretation of an event? What effect do these have on our communication with someone concerning them? When do our emotions 'prevent us from hearing accurately what is being said? When does our desire to be right create barriers against understanding? How does our pride keep us from admitting the truth? Are we often preoccupied when we should be listening? When we claim that Lesson Department someone doesn't understand us, is it possible that we are really saying, "I won't see your point of view," or "Why can't you be like me?" or "I'm not going to change, but you should." or "T understand, but you don't." Does our anxiety, our preoccupation, or our lack of interest convince our children and our husbands that we do not understand them and that they must seek others as confidants? In trying to promote better communication, and, thus, create more successful relationships, we should: 1. Listen, with undivided attention 2. Try looking at things from the other's point of view 3. Be sensitive to hidden and unspoken problems; often, what is being discussed may not be the real problem Think of the needs of others Avoid unkind wit Never belittle the other person Try to help the others, as well as ourselves, learn from failures rather than condemnation 8. Lead—don't argue. ND OS Remember: '"*.. Let us reason together, that ye may understand;"' (D&C 50:10.) "In the lips of him that hath understanding wisdom is found..." (Proverbs 10:13.) "She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness." (Proverbs 31:26.) Ne THE MASTER'S GIFTS » God loved the flowers So he gave to them the dew, And he loved me, | know, For he gave to me—you. —Mary V. Cameron / 865 HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Discussion 5—Let's Be More Courteous (Continued) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show how we can teach our children to be habitually courteous and well mannered. INTRODUCTION It is natural for parents to want their children to behave well, but too many of these parents forget that the conduct of their children is a natural outgrowth of observation, practice, and training. Any conduct which is not the product of one or all of these processes is not natural but is artificial. Good manners are not artificial but, as we learned in our previous discussion, they are the outward indication of the inner virtues of love, kindness, and consideration for others. To act courteously is to fulfill the laws of good conduct, and these laws, like all others, must be taught and practiced. If children are taught at an early age—in fact, the earlier the better—by example and by practice to do "the kindest things in the kindest way," it will become a natural part of their lives. The old proverb "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it" (Proverbs 22:6) is as applicable here as it is in any other phase of his learning process. 866 The manners and courtesies we teach our children are a part of them throughout their lives. This is particularly valuable to missionaries representing their families and the Church throughout the world. They are better and more effective missionaries if they extend courtesy to all with whom they come in contact. Good manners are an important asset in gracious living. HOW SHALL WE TEACH OUR CHILDREN TO BE COURTEOUS AT HOME? One young Relief Society class leader and mother of ten says: My wonderful husband deserves a great tribute because of his kind and thoughtful nature. For instance he will say, 'Son, please open the door for your mother,' or 'Help your mother on with her coat.' He is always appreciative of my work in the house, and he thanks me for sewing on buttons, mending, and doing any other little chores. He also is very considerate in remembering to thank the children when they help out in any way. I. By constantly practicing acts of courtesy one with another. A. Responding to all requests and favors with "Please" and "Thank you." B. Showing respect for each other in conduct and speech. 1. Listening attentively to each other. 2. Avoiding' displays' of temper between parents or children. 3. Respecting each other's privacy. (Even small children desire moments of privacy and seclusion.) By practicing and_ teaching obedience. 1. Honoring the priesthood. 2. Maintaining and teaching a respectful attitude toward parents and Church leaders. 3. - Observing all family rules and requirements. 4. Responding promptly and willingly. 5. Fulfilling personal responsibilities and commitments. By maintaining cleanliness and order. 1. Observing personal habits of cleanliness. 2. Practicing politeness and rules of good conduct at mealtimes. 3. Keeping one's room and personal belongings in order. By frequently expressing love and appreciation to each other and to the children. (Love should be the motivating force for all of our thoughts and actions. ) By realizing that each member is an individual with his own personality, his own abilities, and his own needs and that he should be treated accordingly. By observing regular family prayers, with each _ family member taking his turn and by teaching—from infancy—the great importance of individual prayers. Lesson Department HOW SHALL WE TEACH OUR CHILDREN TO BE COURTEOUS IN PUBLIC? I. By teaching them the principle of the second great commandment, "Love thy neighbour as_ thyself." (Mark 12:31.) II. By teaching them respect for other people's rights and property. III. By teaching them respect for officers of the law, public officials, and teachers. IV. By teaching them to observe civil law. A. 'Traffic rules and signs. B. Property signs—public' and private. C. Any others. VI. By teaching them to help other people whenever possible. A. Crossing streets. B. Opening doors. C. Giving up seats to the elderly. VII. By teaching them the proper use of public services and utilities. A. Telephone rights and courtesies. B. Escalators, elevators, swinging doors, etc. C. Bus and streetcar deportment. CONCLUSION When children have _ been reared in a loving home and have been taught to be obedient to their parents and to their Heavenly Father—when they have been taught to have respect for law and consideration for the rights of others—when, in addition, they have had nurtured within them a prayerful heart— then we can be sure that their conduct will be courteous and well mannered. Better keep a memory BETTER Free and sorrow-blended, Than to bear it guiltily, When a dream has ended. —Christie Lund Coles 867 SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 5—Look for the Guide Line Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life From the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: July 1969 OBJECTIVE: To point out that the Latter-day Saint woman need not be deceived by false values and standards of today, if she will look for and heed the guide lines of gospel teachings. INTRODUCTION The Latter-day Saint woman of today may easily become confused as she contemplates the complex world in which she lives, and as she faces unfavorable situations, some of which are forced upon her. Material possessions may assume unwarranted importance in her thinking and, thus, deceive her into imprudent decisions. She may be deceived by false religious doctrines which are current and with which she or her children may come in contact. She may be deceived by false social values or by an attitude of self-righteousness, if she is not vigilant. Fortunately for her, however, gospel principles, general guidance of the Church, and specific admonition of General Authorities may prevent these deceptions. "THERE WILL YOUR HEART BE ALSO" (Luke 12:34.) Class Discussion 1. Do you believe that striving for material possessions may keep a 868 Latter-day Saint woman from attaining more important and permanent values? 2. In what ways do women influence the spending of money? 3. Do you believe that many wives today press for luxury possessions to the extent of jeopardizing their husband's health? Several aspects of material possessions have been considered in previous social relations lessons. One lesson (see lesson 5, The Relief Society Magazine, November 1967, pp. 869-870) discussed the need to simplify our lives and the value of wanting less of the nonessentials which may encumber our lives. We will now consider materialistic possessions as they may influence human relationships and as they may advance or hinder the Latter-day Saint woman from achieving the important goals of life. In today's world of abundant material comforts and items of luxury, with so many beautiful and useful things to see and to purchase, the question of the relative importance of material things may, with profit, be fre- quently reviewed. Am I spending too much money? Too much time? Too much interest on material possessions? Are questions the thoughtful woman asks herself. ELIZABETH TELLS HER OWN STORY I am a woman to whom material possessions have meant much, very much. I admit that I have given up some very important things in order to have them. I suppose one could say that I had successfully 'kept up with the Joneses" —that is, until something happened. After my husband's death, I planned to meet our son at the termination of his mission, a calling which I had not been too enthusiastic about. We planned to travel in the foreign country for a few weeks before coming home _ together. As the jet plane soared high into the endless blue of sky, I looked down at the earth below. Nothing could be seen but the clouds which separated me from earth, from my city, from my precious possessions housed in a more than comfortable home. I thought of my most recent purchases, which are beautiful. I admit that I really hated to leave them. But, at the moment, they seemed pretty far removed. It was not the possibility of needing to relinquish them permanently that impressed me, but the fact that their beauty and importance somehow seemed too dim in my mind. They were of wood, of porcelain, and of silver, and they seemed remote to my present situation. When I deplaned at the city of my destination, my son was all enthusiasm. I must meet the wonderful people to whom he had taken the gospel message. He loved them, he said. He loved them for their humility, for their willingness to learn of the gospel, and to do all that it required. I was not prepared for the individuals to whom he introduced me nor for the homes in which they lived. Such frugal living, such utter simplicity, and yet such genuine hospitality I had not seen before. One woman said, "To think that you would send your son all the way toa foreign country just to bring the gospel to me and to my family! And to give us Lesson Department that book.'"" She pointed to The Book of Mormon upon the table. "To give us that book," she repeated. "It is almost too wonderful to believe." Her repeated reference to The Book of Mormon impressed me. I later purchased a number of copies, and, as I visited the homes of my deceased husband's relatives, as I had promised him I would do, I left in each home a copy of this new witness for Christ. I learned something about living from those homes, about warmth of family relationships, about sharing, and about caring one for another. "You've changed," I said to my son on the return plane trip, recalling the youth who had gone into the mission field, and seeing now, the more man than boy, who was returning from it. "And I know why." "You've changed, also," he said, "I wasn't sure you'd stay in some of the homes where I took you." "Nor was I, at first. But I wouldn't have missed the experience for the world." Now that the traveling is over, the correspondence with these wonderful families has brought me into an exciting genealogical project for my husband's and also my own ancestral lines. I often ask myself, ""How could I have been so deceived by material possessions? The guide line was there all the time. I suppose I just wasn't aware of it." Class Discussion 1. What does this woman's story mean to you? 2. Do you believe that having a nicer house and prettier or more expensive clothes strengthen your relationship with your neighbor? 3. (a) Do people really love us for what we have? (b) May possessions create a barrier between friends? 4. To what extent do you think luxury possessions are justified? FALSE RELIGIOUS DOCTRINE Discussion Question What may a Latter-day Saint woman do to detect false religious teachings? 869 November 1968 Although Latter-day Saints, generally, may know what the gospel teaches, the Latter-day Saint woman should, of herself, be aware of gospel principles and teachings. This awareness may help her evaluate opposing beliefs which she or her children may encounter. In the 1968-69 Melchizedek Priesthood Manual lesson "Be Not Deceived," President Clark speaks warningly of various religious beliefs held by many socalled Christians. He states that many theological critics object to the eschatology passages of the New Testament. And eschatology is defined as: "The doctrine of the last or final things, death, resurrection, immortality, the end of the world, final judgment, the future state; the doctrine of last things." (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69.) According to President Clark, these critics would disregard anything which lies outside the range of the known laws of nature. They would place everything beyond the moral teachings of Jesus in the realm of myth, legend, symbolism, or allegory. This would destroy the divine origin of Jesus, his miracles, and his resurrection. This would mean that the following would be considered merely as myth, symbolism, or allegory: 1. The resurrection of Jesus and his subsequent appearance to many individuals. 2. The appearance of heavenly beings to the Prophet Joseph Smith. 3. The prophecies concerning the millennium when "angels shall fly through the midst of heaven, crying with a loud voice, sounding 870 the trump of God." (D&C 88:92-111.) (Other illustrations might be suggested.) President Clark states: I would like you to appreciate that without the eschatology of the records of the Savior's life, we should have nothing left but husks, moral teachings, and ethics which, if lived, would make us a great people, a humane people, a peaceful people, but would not carry us back into the presence of our Heavenly Father. (President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Behold the Lamb of God, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Company, 1962, p. 255; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 13.) Under the heading "Warning of False Prophets," President Clark states further: I want to read now just a few verses from the Olivet Discourse, the discourse which the Savior delivered on the Mount of Olives at the near conclusion, or conclusion of the third day of the Passion Week which he had spent in the temple or the temple precincts. I am going to read from all three Synoptists, because each says essentially the same thing, but in somewhat different language. (Behold the Lamb of God, p. 252; Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968- 69, Lesson 13.) The three scriptures which President Clark then quotes are: And as he sat upon the mount of Olives, the disciples came unto him privately, saying, Tell us, when shall these things be? And what shall be the sign of thy coming, and of the end of the world? And Jesus answered and said unto them, Take heed that no man deceive you. For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and shall deceive many. (Matthew 24:3-5.) And Jesus answering them began to say, Take heed lest any man deceive you: For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and shall deceive many. (Mark 13:5-6.) And he said, Take heed that ye be not deceived: for many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and the time draweth near: go ye not therefore after them. (Luke 21:8.) President Clark continues: I think perhaps when we first read these extracts we may think that the Savior is talking primarily of a person, somebody to come to impersonate the Christ and claim to be the Christ. It seems to me, however, from the way in which these records are made and what they say, that the Savior also had in mind anyone who would come and say to you, "This is Christ that I teach; that is Christ that I teach; that is the Christian doctrine." In that sense I think that these scholars about whom I have already read, who would discard everything that they could not account for by the known laws of nature, they are in effect false Christs, for they are telling us that the things that we believe in Christ are myths, tradition, symbolism, allegory; they did not exist. Let us beware of this false Christ, false Christianity, which is taking root among some of our intellectuals. Be not deceived, believe it not, follow not after it. (Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69, Lesson 13.) RECENT REPORT The result of a questionnaire sent to 3,000 Protestant clergymen is reported in an issue (February 1968) of a popular magazine. It reveals how these men feel about prayer, God, sexual freedom, social conformity, and their roles as ministers. Among the younger theologians, most saw Jesus as a human, although with a humanity which was different from our own. Half of them felt that the virgin birth of Jesus was essentially a myth and, therefore, eliminated him from the Holy Trinity. Many rejected the idea of a personal God, preferring to describe God as the "force of life," the "principle of love," "ultimate reality," and so forth. Some went so far Lesson Department as to say that the Bible gives very little guidance for specific problems, saying that it has very little to do with the hereafter, if there is a hereafter. Reference to this report is made in this lesson because these recent findings so clearly illustrate and support President Clark's comments and warning. We should keep in mind that the statements of the theologians are not those of isolated critics, whose viewpoints might influence a small segment of our society only, but represent the attitudes and opinions of ministers in some Protestant churches of today. Class Discussion 1. To what extent might the Latter-day Saint woman or _ her children be influenced by reading such a report or by association with non-Latter-day Saints whose minister teaches such fallacious doctrine? 2. What guide lines will fortify the home against these teachings? (See Lesson 13, "Be Not Deceived," Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, 1968-69.) WHERE MUCH IS GIVEN Where much is given much is expected. This is a common maxim. Related to the Latterday Saint woman it may imply that, since she has been given much spiritual enlightenment and been blessed by available counsel, much is to be expected of her by way of performance. She may recount her many blessings, speak of her standards and of the self-image which influences her actions. She may be heard to say, "I just wouldn't do such a thing." 871 November 1968 Class Discussion 1. In the light of the foregoing paragraph, (a) is there danger that the Latter-day Saint woman may unknowingly project an attitude of self-righteousness? (b) Would her attitude of self righteousness be fair to the Church? 2. May we really be deceiving ourselves as to our worthiness? The Prophet Joseph Smith admonished Relief Society sisters to "... Beware of self-righteousness, and be limited in the estimate of your own virtues, and not think' yourselves more righteous than others " (B. H. Roberts, A Comprehensive History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Salt Lake City: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1949, Vol. 4, p. 606) CONCLUSION President Clark, in lesson 13 of the Melchizedek Priesthood Manual, deals with false religious doctrine. This correlating lesson discusses other areas where the Latter-day Saint woman might be also deceived. A guide line, according to an international dictionary, refers to a rope or cord used to guide one's steps, especially over rocky terrain. It is like the guidepost, placed usually at intersections of two or more roads, in that each is for the guidance of the traveler. The term may be used appropriately in this lesson, for we are travelers over the rocky terrain of life. There are crossroads of thought and action which, often, may require a wise choice or a prompt decision. For the Latterday Saint woman, the most important guide lines are the teachings of the gospel and priesthood counsel. For Home-Doing Ask yourself: 1. Am I deceiving myself? 2. Am I being deceived by others? 3. Am I alert to guide lines which may help me solve particular problems? LS SS SONG FOR A LOSS This know, dear heart—(be comforted) In every love that is, this comes: A time to give it back to God, Who gave it to you Who strains to keep is discomfited, (His love takes on so many forms) —Love can be staff or can be rod— Know this, for it is true, That when one love seems ended, And your joy turned into pain, Remember God attended You formerly, and stands again Ready, though the world seems empty... Love lives, eternally! 872 —Katherine F. Larsen CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 4—The Satisfaction of Growth Dr. Robert K. Thomas Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 4 The World Around Us, Section Four By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas ''We are born to grow and can only develop by keeping ourselves in vital communication with the world without and within us." —J. S. Spalding Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, February 1969 Southern Hemisphere: June 1969 OBJECTIVE: To show that, in true development, increasing complexity is matched ART: by enlarging capacity. 'Lady Jean'' by George Bellows (1882-1925) American Painting reproduced in The Relief Society Magazine, September 1968, page 688. Commentary by Floyd E. Brienholt, page 691. INTRODUCTION As children we usually yearn to grow up; it is only the adult who longs for youth. If, as Wordsworth suggests, "shades of the prison house begin to close upon" the growing child, children are often more realistic about freedom than their parents. The responsibilities of adult life obviously limit complete freedom, and all but relentlessly indulged youngsters willingly accept this. The small girl playing house is trying to the best of her ability to take care of her doll family and pretended household chores. In so doing she is an appealing embodiment of the two elements on which all maturity is based— work and love. If her love still lacks discrimination and her work is childishly random, her instinct is sure. "SILENCE"? BY MARIANNE MOORE (under copyright) The first selection in this section, "Silence" by Marianne Moore, helps us to see at least one standard by which our love can be refined. First of all we must recognize that sensitivity is a distinguishing characteristic of mature love. In her deft, opening lines, Miss Moore touches briefly on various kinds of insensitivity; those who make long visits are insensitive to others; those who must be shown standard tourist attractions are insensitive both to others and to themselves. Truly superior people know that real concern for others 873 November 1968 has little to do with superficial companionship and that those who try to keep us from indulging ourselves are really our friends. What makes this poem effective is the way in which these ideas are presented. The indirection of Miss Moore's lines forces us to think about what she is saying while the specific details she uses help us to participate in the situations she describes. The result is that we come away from a poem about growth having experienced growth. Discussion Question Although the title of this poem is "Silence," we soon discover that Miss Moore has in mind a special kind of silence—that which is the result of deep, restrained feeling. How important is restraint in the achievement of maturity? "THE MOTHER'S DILEMMA" FROM "THEIR MOTHERS' SONS" BY EDWARD STRECKER (under copyright) The second selection this month focuses on a kind of love which is a hindrance to the growth of both mother and child. Dr. Strecker's article is effective because he never descends to sensationalism or technical jargon to present his point. He is content to pose the problem and possible consequences of overly protective love in language that is both simple and disarmingly forthright. He is understanding enough to concede that just being a mother creates a dilemma for which there is no easy solution. His compliment to his readers is that just seeing the general problem clearly may make individual decisions easier. 874 The integration of love and work found in real maturity is only hinted at in "Silence" when its concluding lines suggest that the truly sensitive are anxious to encourage others' on-going effort. In "The Mother's Dilemma," we see this fusion of love and work more explicitly. It is not enough to love our children devotedly. Unless we work at teaching them how to give as well as take, we have stunted their emotional growth. Failure to prepare her child for independence exacts as much from the mother as the child. Both remain in a state of arrested development; both forego the satisfaction of maturity.. Discussion Question Assuming Dr. Strecker's assertion that "the vast majority of men and women are made or broken before the first ten years of their lives" is at least approximately true, what specific things can a mother do to help her children become independent without feeling rejected? "THE RIVER MERCHANT'S WIFE" BY EZRA POUND How one's love for another should develop is the theme of our next selection. Ezra Pound's rather free translation of an ancient Chinese poem helps us to see how old, yet how fresh, are the stages in developing love. Anyone who is happily married can testify that falling in love is exciting, but growing in love is more deeply satisfying. Perhaps the one line in "The River Merchant's Wife" which tells us that married happiness must be worked for occurs at the end of the second stanza. Although her marriage has been arranged, and she is too bashful to laugh or even look up, the young bride looks forward and not back. That this effort cost her something is suggested in the next line when she admits that her first year of married life was characterized by her "scowling." That her effort was worthwhile is testified to in the adolescent intensity of her desire to have her dust mingled with her husband's "for ever and for ever and for ever." Discussion Question The wife in this poem surely does show restraint in expressing her love. To what extent, if any, is the point of "The River Merchant's Wife" in conflict with the theme of "Silence''? "SONNET 7 FROM HOLY SONNETS" BY JOHN DONNE At the round earth's imagined corners, blow Your trumpets, angels, and arise, arise From death, you numberless infinities Of souls, and to your scattered bodies go; All whom the flood did, and fire shall o'erthrow; All whom war, dearth, age, agues, tyrannies, Despair, law, chance, hath slain, and you whose eyes Shall behold God, and never taste death's woe. But let them sleep, Lord, and me mourn a space, For, if above all these, my sins abound, "Tis late to ask abundance of Thy grace, When we are there; here on this lowly ground, Teach me how to repent; for that's as good As if Thou hadst sealed my pardon, with Thy blood. Our opening selections have stressed various manifestations of love. Our concluding ones emLesson Department phasize work. In "Sonnet 7," for instance, John Donne is painfully aware that he is not prepared for judgment day. The suggestion that his sins "abound" above everyone else's may be deliberate exaggeration, but it is indicative of his state of mind. He is not interested in gauging where his sins might be viewed in relation to other persons, for any sin implies estrangement from God. Neither is he willing to depend upon the grace or mercy of God once his earth life is over. Now is the time and here is the place to repent. It is interesting to note that Donne does not contemplate effortless change, but when the Lord helps him understand how to repent, the rest is up to him. Donne simply asks for time to grow into the kind of person whose life does not mock the Savior's sacrifice. Discussion Question "Sonnet 7" helps us see that repentance is at the base of spiritual growth. To what extent is repentance at the base of all growth? "EARLY MARRIAGE" BY CONRAD RICHTER (under copyright) "Early Marriage" involves us in the development of two young people, a brother and _ sister, Rife and Nancy Belle, who must grow up almost over night. Yet this is no story of courage under actual fire. The young boy and girl who must make several days journey through hostile country are not called upon to fight Indians, but they must fight their own fears, develop enough self-control to strengthen each other, and grow up to the 875 November 1968 point that they can face whatever the next day brings. As we might expect, love is the impelling force: the girl's love for her husband-to-he, the boy's devotion to his sister. But the real impact of the story comes in watching them work out of youth into adulthood. We know from the first that Rife's apparent unconcern and Nancy Belle's calmness are carefully and deliberately imposed from within. The effort it ls costing young Rife to keep control of himself is hinted at repeatedly in the stiffness of his actions, and Nancy Belle's mature understanding of her plight is effectively suggested in her controlled emotions. She doesn't even hug her brother when he returns with the lost horses lest this break in the discipline she is imposing upon herself, might weaken them both. Discussion Question What is the danger in growing up too fast? What areas of your life are apt to suffer if you assume responsibilities beyond your years? "MY KINSMAN, MAJOR MOLINEUX"' BY NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE "My Kinsman, Major Molineux" was among the earliest of Hawthorne's tales to appear in print, but its critical reception was mixed. Some thought this to be simply a tale of the necessary replacing of the old by the new. Others felt that it was no more than the account of an ignorant country youth who was frustrated in his search for help from a prominent kinsman and, as a result, finally joined in _ public condemnation of him. 876 ROSE PARADE TOUR December 26 — January 2 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 fotal electric living UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Chencget Sy Busy MUSIC COMPANY '*Singing Mothers"' ''Choir Directors'' We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies instruments Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World. MOVED -NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101 Phone: 364-6518 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates Effective June 1, 1968 A sure way of keeping alive the valuable in struction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is In a handsomely bound cover The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house IS prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume Matl or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service Cloth Cover $3 50; Leather Cover Yearly Index Included $5 50 Advance payment must accompany all orders Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed Postage Rates from Salt Lake City. Utah Zone 1 and 2 55 Zone 5 75 Zone 3 60 Zone6é. 85 Zone 4 65 Zone 7 95 Zone 8 105 a. DESERET ews PRESS 1600 Empire Road. Salt Lake City. Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486 1892 Lesson Department Recent critics have been more impressed. They have usually recognized this as one of the great accounts of developing manhood. Note that even the young hero's name, Robin, is suggestive of spring-like hope and anticipation. Our identification with Robin may be so real that it is painful to relive our own adolescent frustrations and embarrassments in his story. Who has not, at some time in his youth, expected someone else to help make his fortune or provide an unearned opportunity? In his essay "The American Scholar," Ralph Waldo Emerson quotes the Swiss educator Pestalozzi to the effect that his own maturity began to be evident when he learned that "no man in God's wide earth is either willing or able to help any other man." If this verges upon cynical overstatement, it does dramatize the necessity for each person being responsible for his own development. Poor environment may make certain kinds of growth difficult, and seeming lack of opportunity may coerce' our choices, but young men and women do rise above poverty and degradation through unremitting use of their own resources. There is no more encouraging note in this story than the continuing possibility of each person's achieving that success which is appropriate to both his aspiration and determination. Discussion Question We are often told that experience is the best teacher, yet some of Robin's experiences seem to leave him so depressed that they rob him of initiative. Are there some experiences a person cannot afford to have? 877 November 1968 _. Treasure Up ir Your minds swiipaly the words of Life.." For reume of NaC. 84:85 Chard scriptunes, ae at et Wis, en ere ro pir and degantl ara ot) qe a8 pre 'A unique and unusual gift dal for framing. ¢ selections and ee (betwen £15 & ts) send lof-to Putte Enterpr lo06 £0, Box Be Oult Lake City, Ut. S4101 FOUR WORDS DEFINED PEACE is being loved in the deepest dimension. LIVING is loving someone beyond explanation. DEVOTION is serving others with sincere dedication. FAITH is saying 'I will" when the time comes for action. —Leora G. Larsen LOVED A child breathes And with this life Held for a moment In loved curved arms, Come light and shadows. A child grows, Is molded to His environment, And reflects the lives Of those that break the shadows. A child matures, And, if cradled well, The world is to him As a rainbow prismed On an edge of glass. —Carolle Denton CRAFT SUPPLIES NOW TWO STORES TO SERVE YOU BETTER 1. ZIM'S Convenient Uptown Store—240 East 2nd South 2. ZIM'S Freeway Store At 45th South and Interstate 15 (4370 South 2nd West) Send 50¢ for our brand-new, 100-page Crafts Instruction Catalog. You'll be glad you did! Dealer inquiries invited ZIM'S Box 7620 Salt Lake City, Utah 84107 Dept. R. M. 878 3s. We seek after these things." Joseph Smith THINGS LOVELY Wis eA record for spiritual people Side 1 Side 2 The Holy City Praise Be to Thee The Pilgrims' Song | Walked Today Where Jesus More Holiness Give Me Walked The Lost Chord | Abide With Me; 'Tis Eventide If Christ Should Come Tomorrow The Lord's Prayer A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief Sung by: Melva Niles Barborka and Robert Peterson Alfredo Antonini and Orchestra Mono/Stereo $5.00 Bel. RECORDS — Burning Tree Rd., Greenwich, Conn. Or ZCMI Dept Store, BYU Bookstore, Ricks College Bookstore. 879 Names of Latter-day Saint women who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone for inclusion in the Birthday Congratulations column. The full name (maiden and married), age, month of birth, street address, city, state, and zip code, should be submitted at least three months before the birthday. 100 96 95 94 93 880 Mrs. Martha Jane Chappel Head Farmington, New Mexico Mrs. Rebecca Wilson Wilson Richfield, Utah Mrs. Arabella Smart Parkinson Daines Logan, Utah Mrs. Minna Mandelkol Kirchoss Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Matilda Anderson Staples Elsinore, Utah Mrs. Agnes Anderson Thompson Layton, Utah Mrs. Pamela Stoddard Gale Willard, Utah Mrs. Jessie Bowers Smith Inman Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Bertha Ellen Winn Johns Coburg, Oregon Mrs. Evelyn S. Koehler South Lake Tahoe, California Mrs. Stella Wilkins Larson Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Minnie Margetts Ross Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lucy Jacobs B. Winterton Charleston, Utah Mrs. Clara Elizabeth Woodbury Barlow Sylvester Adams Las Vegas, Nevada Mrs. Semantha Cornelia Shurtleff Agren Ogden, Utah Mrs. Laura Finlayson Coombs Santaquin, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann (Mayme) Wilson Edson Ogden, Utah 92 91 90 Mrs. Evelyn Wright Farr Ogden, Utah Mrs. Mae Francell Henri Herring Orem, Utah Mrs. Patrea Christina Peterson Keisel Manti, Utah Mrs. Helen Hunsaker Allen Tremonton, Utah Mrs. Adeline Lorenia Peterson Bone Garland, Utah Mrs. Salley Courtney Dykes Tallahassee, Florida Mrs. Addie Thorne Nelson Roy, Utah Mrs. Rose Hone Pay Spanish Fork, Utah Mrs. Jennett Mitchel Smith Eden, Utah | Mrs. Mary Melindia Thompson Spencer | Provo, Utah Mrs. Minnie Kirk Clawson Ramah, New Mexico Mrs. Mary Ann Fields Ogden, Utah Mrs. Mary Hafen Leavitt St. George, Utah Mrs. Fanny Butenschon Metalman Bedford, Wyoming Mrs. Laura Wilson Ross Portland, Oregon Mrs. Almeda Perry Brown Downey, California Mrs. Mary Ann Faddies Farrell Coalville, Utah Mrs. Emma Jane Robins Herbert Salina, Utah Mrs. Vinnie Eveleen Imlay Marshall Pima, Arizona » € i ode An endless source of captivating and thrifty recipes to delight the whole family! CASSEROLES tasty recipes that will become favorites in your family. Casseroles for brunch, lunch, dinner, Outdoors, and special occasions everything from cheese broccoli casserole to cauliflower souffle chuck wagon skillet to honey-yam casserole. Handy editorial guide to left-overs magic, convenience foods, how to cook ahead and freeze family meals. * E MORMON CGIPES Pavan MEATS never run out of ideas, draw on these delicious recipes tried and tested and shared with you by Relief Society sisters throughout the U. S. Recipes for braising, roasting, panfrying, broiling, stewing, barbecuing and. Baking. Fi x 200 Avot, aecints ren \. X, SALADS NEW, just off the press, mouth-watering salad and appetizer recipes from Mormon homemakers everywhere. Complete details on preparing picture-perfect salads for luncheon, snacks, and family dinners. Categorized by egg salads, frozen fruit salads and molds, vegetable salads, party and dessert Salads, poultry salads, seafood Salads, and pasta salads. Each recipe book contains over 2,000 recipes! Lifetime spiral binding that lies flat DESERET BOOK COMPANY for convenient use. Illustrated. 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, Calif. 92668 Please send me: copies of CASSEROLES Total Cost $ | enclose check [1] money order (1. Copies of MEATS Charge established account [_] Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 34% sales tax, residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. (Please send details of fund raising plan [ ) copies of SALADS 44 EAST SO TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY Nov. R. S. Mag. 68 nae? PUMPKIN PIE 3 egg yolks 1 tablespoon unflavored 12 cup U AND | SUGAR gelatin (or 1 envelope) 1% cups cooked or Y% cup cold water canned pumpkin 3 stiffly beaten egg Y% cup milk whites ¥ tsp. Salt 1% cup U AND | SUGAR % tsp. Ginger 1 baked 9" or 10" Y tsp. Cinnamon pastry shell % tsp. Nutmeg a Beat egg whites and % cup sugar, and set aside. Beat egg yolks and %cup sugar until thick. Add pumpkin, milk, salt, and spices. Cook in double boiler until thick. Soften gelatin in cold water, stir into hot mixture. Fold in egg white mixture. Pour into baked, cooled pastry shell and chill. Top with whipping cream. Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah " Put the magic of Sugarplum Land in your meals suggests this delicious, easy to make Pumpkin Pie for a real family taste treat. Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live where sugarbeets are grown. U and I Sugar sweetens the economy of these areas. U and | SUGAR COMPANY Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington. 

