Greeting From the General Presidency of the Relief Society
To our beloved co-workers, the Relief Society women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, we extend love and heart-felt good wishes. We are grateful to our heavenly Father for his blessings and his guidance which have been with the Society since its organization, and we humbly pray for a continuance of his divine favor in all our future efforts. Having been called through the Holy Priesthood to serve in these responsible positions, we are anxious to magnify the call to the best of our ability. In our effort to go forward in the performance of this duty, we shall need the faith and prayers and support of every individual member of the organization, as well as the help of our Father in heaven, for all of which we humbly pray.
Since the organization of the Relief Society, by the Prophet Joseph Smith, March 17, 1842, the growth of the institution, like the growth of the mighty oak, has been substantial and continuous. With the aid and counsel of the General Authorities of the Church, and under the immediate leadership of the faithful and devoted women who have served as officers, supported by united and efficient workers, the great organization has grown in membership from 18 in the beginning to 48,204 today, with 1,171 branches, located not only in the United States, Canada, and Mexico, but in Europe and on the islands of the sea.
The service of the Relief Society has been even greater than its numerical growth, and it has extended throughout the Church wherever there has been need of a helping hand or a sympathetic heart. The sick, the weary and the sorrowful have been ministered to, and comforted; the needy and distressed have been succored; the aged have been visited and cheered, and the dead have been tenderly laid away. 
In addition to this service, much time has been spent and a great deal of effort put forth along preventive lines, in strengthening the virtues of the community and improving conditions which have helped to cause many of the present day physical and social ills. Relief Society women have worked for better laws, for the enforcement of existing laws, and for all community movements which have had for their object the development of the community and the improvement of mankind.
These special duties, which were given to the organization by the Prophet Joseph Smith in the beginning, and other later commissions to the society, such as the storing of grain, the training of nurses, the establishment of the Woman's Exponent, and later the , the work for the dead, etc., have all been faithfully carried forward. The present great interest in temple work is no doubt due in a large measure to the efforts of the women of the Relief Society.
In addition to its regular activities, the Relief Society, during the recent war, gave substantial assistance to the government. In the work of the State Council of Defense, in the food production and food conservation campaigns, in the Liberty Loan drives, and all phases of Red Cross work, the members of the Society were in the front ranks of the patriotic women of the country. Probably one of the most effective pieces of work done for the government during the war, by the society, was the turning over to the Food Administration of more than one hundred thousand bushels of wheat.
While rendering all this service, the spirit of testimony and the love of truth have ever been uppermost with the women of the Society, and the desire to live in conformity with the gospel in its fulness has been the goal toward which every Relief Society woman has striven.
Nor have Relief Society women worked only for others and for one another in loving service, but they have worked with one another, in a united systematic effort for their own improvement and education, by close application and careful study, with two objects in view: first, to fit and train themselves for better service as leaders, teachers, and mothers in Israel; and, second, to raise their own personal standards physically, mentally, and spiritually. They have studied the gospel of Jesus Christ eagerly with other subjects related thereto, and have taken up various courses along other lines, such as literature, art, home economics, and community welfare work.
Realizing that the most important factors in the success of the Relief Society are the loyalty and devotion of the individual members who make up the organization, our hearts go out in gratitude to them one and all, and we pray that these women who
are absolutely loyal to the Society, and to their leaders, and who lay self aside to work for the great good and the ultimate success of the Society, will be blessed and comforted and have peace of mind forever.
We commend and appreciate the work of all who are connected with the organization: the general officers and board members with their special work, the stake and local officers with the detail work, and every single member of the Society. We respectfully ask you all to help us in the loving work of the Master, in which we are all engaged.
Everybody eligible is needed. The dear aged sisters are needed always, because they are ripe in wisdom and full of faith and testimony. What would the organization be without them? The middle-aged women are needed because of their vigor and power and ability to give service. The young mothers, though they have many cares, are needed because, with their bright and eager minds, they give efficient help and great inspiration, and because they also need training themselves; for in a few years they will be left to carry on the work.
The work of the great Relief Society as guided by our late beloved President, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells and her associates, and by those faithful and energetic women who preceded them, supported by the women of the Church, has no doubt been gratifying to our heavenly Father, as it has been to the authorities of the Church. Let us continue with this labor of love. Let us not be satisfied unless we do our best in all things. Let us be alert and improve our service to others by study and training. Let us not forget the objects for which we were organized, but faithfully magnify our calling in the service of God and humanity, and extend our activities as conditions may demand.
Let us not forget to emphasize our testimony bearing, for our testimonies and our faith are increased and made stronger, by so doing. And above all things let us earnestly seek the Lord for his guidance, realizing that all the gifts and learning of the world cannot compare with the knowledge and testimony of the gospel.
Now, dear sisters, may the Lord give you much joy in your labors, and may he bless you and bless us with his Holy Spirit continually, is our constant prayer.