World Happenings By James H. Anderson Queen Mary of England is the proprietor of a successful antique shop at Windsor, England. Utah's legislature has been increased in membership to 20 senators and 55 representatives. Railway men's wages in most of the states of the Union were reduced 8 to 12 percent in June: At San Diego, Cal., in March, a pig gave birth to 19 piggies, five of which have to be nursed by goats, Women in Germany took up arms and actually fought in May, to repel the Polish invaders of German Silesia. Prince Hiroshito, heir-apparent to the Japanese throne, received a specially cordial welcome in Great Britain and France. The anti-cigarette law of Utah went into effect on June 7, but the bill-board advertising of tobacco was more offensive than ever. In Mexico, ''Mormon" missionaries who are citizens of that country have been able to resume their preaching of the gospel ' there. Turkish atrocities have been resumed in Armenia, a large number of Christians having been massacred in May, along the Black Sea coast. The McCune residence in Salt Lake City, presented to the Church by Mr. And Mrs. McCune, has been set apart as an art gallery and school of music. Chemical warfare by Germany was predicted by French chemists in May, and the destruction of all chemical plants in Germany was advocated. Misses Mary and Ruth Chipman, of American Fork, Utah, won the state championship in high school debating at the University of Utah, on May 14. Mrs. Joseph Fels, widow of a rich Philadelphia orthodox Jew, contributed $600,000 in March, toward the rebuilding of. Jerusalem as a city for the Jews. Pope Benedict issued a letter from Rome in May, urging the factions in Ireland to come together in a peaceful settlement, but up to date the appeal has had little effect. United States marshals in convention in Chicago in March objected to women bailiffs and court officers on the ground that they "ack judgment in times of emergency." Germany accepted the entente allies' reparation terms in May, and agreed to pay $33,750,000,000 indemnity. In addition to this, the war debt of Germany is $40,000,000,000.: Viscountess Rhondda, England's "greatest woman," began a movement. In May for the amelioration of the condition of widows with children and of unmarried mothers in Great Britain. A new liquid poison has been discovered, three drops of which, it is said, would have killed the entire American first army in the battlefield in France, if it could have been used there. Electrical phenomena known as aurora borealis interfered with all electric service in the Northern hemisphere on May 13 and 14, and is regarded by electrical scientists as a forertinner of a hot summer. A score of American Indians were baptized into the "Mormon" Church on April 30, and these with a number previously admitted were organized into a church branch in the 15th ward in Salt Lake City, Utah. Prominent secular newspapers in the United States, showed great unanimity in publishing the editorial 'statement that "the only real hope for peace in the world is conformity to the teachings of Jesus of Nazareth." Sir Alfred Mond, now the virtual head of the Jewish Palestine rehabilitation commission, has announced, in relation to a Jewish temple in Jerusalem, that hereafter he will "devote his energies to building a great edifice on the site of Solomon's temple." WORLD HAPPENINGS. 415: Mary Fulton, well known writer for the London Blight, says the genius of American women is "slave-driving'"' and the "husbands are the slaves." The American comic issues in daily papers seem to have a similar idea. Italian soldiers who had been wounded and maimed in the _ war stormed public offices in Italy in May, and compelled the single women and girls employed there to leave, the soldiers filling their places at work. Mrs. Lloyd George, wife of the British premier, has been making public speeches, and is rated one of the most effective public speakers in Great Britain. Most of her social work is in the interest of public charity. Miss Alice M. Robertson, of Oklahoma, the only woman member of the United States Congress, made her maiden speech in the House on May 17, eulogizing the late Senator Platt of New York for his friendship for the American Indians. The new American cabinet at Washington consists of 3 Presbyterians, 2 Baptists, and 1 each Unitarian, Methodist, Episcopalian, United Presbyterian, and Quaker. The President is a Baptist and the Vice-President a Congregationalist. European nations, with the exception of Great Britain (which is having serious financial trouble), are regarded by leading American financiers as' virtually bankrupt, hence unable to pay the United States the $10,000,000,000 loaned to them. Madame Marie Curie, discoverer of radium as a curative agent, was warmly welcomed in Washington, D. C., on May 20, and was presented with a small phial of radium valued at $100,000. Dr. Samuel H. Allen of this city was, through the courtesy of Senator Smoot, an invited guest at this imposing function, Rosalie Cohen, born blind, and a few years ago pronounced mentally deficient by the school teachers, has graduated at public school No. 127, in Brooklyn, N. Y., the only blind child who ever won a diploma in New York's schools. She ranked 100 percent in all her studies except English, and in that her ranking was 90. She made the graduation dress which she wore. All her school work is typewritten. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto?