Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund—General Secretary East German Mission DA D. Rees, Relief Society President of the East German Mission, writes a very delightful account of the organization over which she presides. The picture below is of a bazaar held by one of the branch organizations in the mission. There are only twenty members of the Church in this branch and fourteen propriate readings and addresses was presented. An enviable attendance record of 193 persons was made. The fourteen enrolled Relief Society members look upon those who were in attendance as potential members of the Church to be cultivated and encouraged until they too see the light. The zeal and well directed enthusiasm of the sisters who made this BRANCH BAZAAR, EAST GERMAN MISSION of these are enrolled in Relief Society. The bazaar was called to the attention of all Saints through effective advertising methods and everyone helped to make it successful. No admission was charged but attractive articles as well as refreshments were sold. A splendid program consisting of vocal and instrumental music, apoccasion a memorable one is an inspiration to all. Czechoslovak Mission HE accompanying picture is of the Prague Branch Relief Society on the occasion of the visit of Sister Amy Brown Lyman, President of the European Mission Relief Societies. Sister Martha S. Toronto, "Relief Society President of the 620 Czechoslovak Mission, writes that from May 2 to 4 the Relief Societies of the mission held some very interesting meetings with Sister Lyman. Sister Lyman reminded the sisters of the important part women play in the world and spoke of the advantages which have come to Latterday Saint women through the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. She called attention to the fine lesson program and other activities of the Relief Society which provide opportunity for self-expression and learning along many practical lines which enable women to be more efficient in the discharge of their duties. President Lyman told the women of the fine organization of Relief Society the world over and the blessing it is to women. Though women face many discouraging situations, with the faith and courage which comes from a knowledge of the Gospel they can more adequately cope with life. A conference was held at Brno at which all the missionaries were in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE attendance. During the afternoon a visit was made to Mendel's garden. In this little garden Mendel, a Catholic Priest, worked for twenty years to develop his theory on the law of heredity. The garden is most interesting and the instruments and books which have been preserved are of great educational value. On the return to Prague the Machocha Caverns were visited. These are enormous caverns of stalagmite formations similar to our Timpanogos PRAGUE BRANCH, CZECHOSLOVAK MISSION Cave. The country in this neighborhood strongly suggests the Rocky Mountains. In Prague a visit was made to the Masaryk Social Homes. The director of the social work in Prague conducted the party through the homes. The homes were especially interesting to President Lyman because of her long connection with social welfare work. The Saints of the mission felt greatly benefited in having had the inspirational presence. And instructions of President Lyman.....