A LESSON DEPARTMENT "Count ten, or better count to 100." 2. Learn to look for the causes of vague feelings of uneasiness, then think of something rational you can do to meet the situation. Guard against a spread of feeling to situations unrelated to the original cause. 3. Since emotions appear when "things get out of control," strive to regain the reins you have dropped as soon and as intelligently as possible. Ask yourself if the emotion really prepares you to make the proper adjustment or whether it simply indicates your inability to make a good adjustment. 4, When you have become the victim of a grudge, hatred, or fear, approach the object of your emotion often and coolly with the intent of seeing if you can handle it better by some intellectual means. 5. To regain control, use your friends to talk out your feelings, and to get an objective and intelligent view of the facts. 6. Fight the tendency to regress or go back to more childish emotional behavior. Make your emotional age correspond to your chronological age. Problems for Discussion 1. What is the relation between reason and emotion? 2. Select your most persistent and unpleasant thought or subject. At- 641 tempt to define exactly how it became so disagreeable. How could you have lessened the displeasure by meeting the situation more thoughtfully, less emotionally? 3. Have you ever "felt"? More afraid after a danger has passed than at the instant it appeared? Why? 4. What general class of situations arouse emotions? _ Illustrate with a situation which produces fear, with one which produces anger. 5. What has been your best formula for controlling your temper? 6. Show how lack of emotional control destroys one's efficiency and his popularity. 7. Discuss the efficacy of a few church practices on the development of sentiments. 8. Show the value of sentiments as moral controls. References for Further Study 1. James, Wm., Psychology, Vol. II, pp. 449, 450. New York: Henry Holt, 1890. 2. Morgan, J. J. B., Keeping a Sound Mind, pp. 169-201. New York: Macmillan, 1934. 3. Starch, D., et al., Controlling Human Behavior, pp. 235-257. New York: Macmillan, 1936. 4. Woodworth, R. S., Psychology, pp. 334-59. New York: Henry Holt, 1934. "The future belongs to the children. The three enemies of childlife are ignorance, poverty, and alcohol, every one of them preventable."?Sir Donald MacLean.  "Most social drinking is a matter of lack of courage to think and act for one's self. People accept drinks that are thrust upon them simply because they have not the backbone to stand their ground and refuse. I think such cowardice is as shameful as the drinking itself. Too many people who would never go out of their way to get a drink allow liquor to be forced on them."?Professor Stagg.  Literature for the Missions TYPICAL WOMEN OF THE CHURCH Lesson 3 CATHERINE MIKKELSEN?A Gem of DANISH ORIGIN TO a lowly dugout in the east central part of what is now the city of Logan, Utah, on the 17th of August, 1860, there was welcomed a tiny baby girl by Brother Niels Mikkelsen and his good wife, Sena Johnson Mikkelsen. The new baby was named Catherine and she, with her elder brother Ephraim, was carefully tended by the fond parents in the humble dugout for about two years until the father himself could make enough adobes to build a tworoom adobe house. At about this time through plural marriage another mother, Laura Ingaman, was brought into the home and for the next twelve years the two families of six children were reared together. The mothers were both wise women and so Catherine with the others learned through experience and kindly direction the valuable lessons of love, loyalty and unselfishness. Until she was fourteen years of age she attended the very primitive schools of the time, and despite the fact that the building was of logs and had a dirt roof, and although there were no desks and only slab benches to sit upon, she had instilled in her receptive mind the value of an education. Through keen observance during her girlhood she also learned many of the ways and characteristics of the American Indians who were numerous throughout the territory. When she was fourteen years of age her father built a new home for her mother in a part of the city called "The Island." After moving into this home Catherine was taught to make tallow candles and soap, how to gather and dry different herbs for winter use, also to spin yarn, and in many ways prepare herself for the duties of a wife and homemaker. Besides the instructions given her in temporal things, and of far greater value to her, werc the teachings by her ardent pioneer parents of faith in a Father above who was ever willing to help and bless those who would work and seek Him. When she was nineteen years of age she was married to Brother John P. Sorensen by Daniel H. Wells in the Endowment House, Salt Lake City, and from then on she was to know through very real experience the value of all she had learned as a child. She and her husband moved to Lago, a frontier farming district in Idaho, to make their new home and their first house was a tworoomed log one. The walls were whitewashed; clean, white cheesecloth provided the curtains for the small windows, and a woven rag carpet with straw under it covered the floors. Their nearest neighbors lived in similar homes dotted here and there miles apart throughout the vast stretches of sage brush relieved occasionally by plots of green grass. The young couple were very happy in their new surroundings and their lives were full of joy and satisfaction. In due time a baby girl came to the humble abode, but unfortunately it was called immediately to the world beyond.