This proved a great disappointment to Sister Sorensen LESSON DEPARTMENT but later five stalwart sons were given to her. There was no whitecoated dector nor prim uniformed nurse to wait upon her during these birth ordeals. Besides her husband, her only attendant was a friendly neighbor or the kindly midwife who willingly did what she could to soothe, not relieve, the pain of this brave mother, as there were no anesthetics to be administered in those days. But after her labor was over and the tiny ones had been safely delivered into her aching but loving arms, her joy was complete and a song of thanks and gratitude would go out to the Giver of all life. Each time as she entered again into the routine of housekeeping and homemaking, instead of the many conveniences enjoyed by many mothers today, she had to keep the house warm, and prepare the plain food over fires fed with sage brush or wood. The clothes had to be washed in water carried from a well outside, rubbed and wrung out by hand, and when dry ironed with heavy irons heated on the kitchen stove. But through all this her heart still sang, for she realized that these precious souls had been given to her to love and care for; also she had been given health and strength and a kind and loving husband to assist and encourage her. As each busy week passed on there came as surcease from toil and labor the Sabbath with sacrament meeting to attend. Arising early Sister Sorensen would quickly do the necessary household tasks before dressing herself and the boys in their Sunday clothes while Brother Sorensen did the outside chores, caught the horses from the open range, and hitched them to the wagon ready for the trip to the meeting place several miles distant. The roads were narrow and rough and streams had to be 643 forded as there had been no bridges built, but the Sorensens always arrived on time. After the simple and humble services, the remainder of the day would be spent visiting at the home of some good neighbor, and through this spiritual communion and social contact, renewed courage was obtained for the work of the new week. Later on a new log school house was built in which socials as well as meetings were held and which were attended by old and young together. By this time things in the little pioneer community had taken on a more thriving and progressive atmosphere; roads had been improved, bridges built and more and roomier houses constructed. Brother and Sister Sorensen had kept apace. They had two homes now ? two more rooms having been added on to the first one?a new two-roomed one on a homestead one-half mile farther east. During the six years of homesteading and the few succeeding years spent back in the four-roomed house, one more son and seven daughters were born to gladden the lives of this righteous couple and the Lord blessed and prospered them. The children never had to go hungry or ragged and although "their fare was simple and plain, love abided among them. They were taught to pray, to have faith in a loving Father above and to do all they could in service to their fellowmen. Brother and Sister Sorensen were both ardent church workers, and Sister Sorensen worked as an officer in each of the auxiliary organizations. During the time that she was a stake officer there would be occasons when she would be gone on her visits throughout the stake for eight or ten days at a time during which the well trained and loving older 644 boys and girls under the loving supervision of the kind father would take over the task of keeping the home and caring for the younger children. The work went on smoothly and well and there seemed never to be any discord or friction among them. Brother Sorensen was_ biessed with an aesthetic temperament and was always teaching and providing for his family the finer things of life. Through his diligence and successful farming and his wife's good planning, before many years there was prepared and built a good fif-- teen-room house for their large family. This house was furnished with beautiful carpets and curtains and mahogany furniture. There was an organ and later a piano, and the book cases were filled with the best books obtainable. There was also running water and electricity with all their conveniences. With each of the thirteen children inviting to their home his or her special friends and acquaintances, the big house took on, more than anything else, the aspect of a great community center. Especially on Sundays and holidays would large groups congregate there. There would be singing and games or more quiet visiting and studying, and always there was a ten-gallon freezer of ice cream with which to treat them. An aspen grove occupied a part of the farm and of this Brother Sorensen made a_ veritable picnic ground. He built swings and teeters and a platform upon which the young people would dance to the music of the organ which was often taken there in a wagon. As the children grew older and ready for a better education than was provided in the farming community, Sister Sorensen would take them all to Logan for the winter RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE months where they could enter better schools. Two or three years after moving into the large house there was one more daughter born, making fourteen children in all. When the baby was six months old and the oldest son was filling a mission in New Zealand, the father was called to the great beyond. This, as you may know, was a terrible shock to Sister Sorensen and her grief seemed more than she could bear, as she wondered how she alone could complete the task of rearing to good and honorable manhood and womanhood their numerous sons and daughters. Fre long, however, that inborn pioneer trait of overcoming all obstacles came breaking its way through the dense fog of her sorrow and she again began to carry on. After a few years she left the farm with all its kindly associations and fond memories and returned with her seven still unmarried children to her childhood home, Logan. After getting settled into a new home she once more became active in home and church affairs. Her mother who was now very old came into her home and for five years was cared for by Sister Sorensen. Later a little five-year-old boy whose mother had died was brought to her and for five years she cared for him as one of her own. She also tuok an active part in the ward organizations and for thirteen years served as a worker in the Logan Temple. Her children each in turn entered the Brigham Young College where they could receive religious as well as secular education. Two daughters and one son graduated from the Utah State Agricultural College,- three of the boys filled missions for the L. D. S. Church and each and every one of them was married to a LESSON DEPARTMENT good and true companion in the temple of the Lord. In August, 1937, on the seventy-seventh anniversary of her birth the eight daughters, assisted by the six daughters-in-law, held a reception to which loving relatives and kind friends came to wish Sister Sorensen many happy returns of the cay and to invoke upon her the continued blessings of the Lord during her remaining years. She is still active as a Relief Society visiting teacher. She nas given comfort and solace to the weary and sad, has mothered the orphans and has never turned from her door the beggar unfed. Her children and grandchildren honor and respect her; they rally round her always trying to make life pleasant. She in turn helps them with her wise and kindly counsel and takes a keen delight in their home life and wholesome entertainment. Each and all express themselves as being blessed beyond measure through having been born and reared by this wonderful woman. Items for Consideration 1. In this lesson we again have sketched pioneer life among the early Latter-day Saints in Western America. What were some of the principal features of this life? 2. In those days people of the world seemed to believe that a Mormon polygamous home must be a place where the inmates lived beastly lives. Instead, what were the children taught, both by precept and example, in the polygamous home in which Catherine Mikkelson was reared? 645 3. What did Catherine learn to do in her girlhood days that qualified her to be a good wife of a pioneer husband? 4. Tell what her parents taught her that was of the utmost value in making her life contented and happy. 5. State in what ways she observed these teachings in her life. 6. Why was she married to her husband in the Endowment House, a hundred miles from Logan? Why did they not stay at home and be married by the bishop of the ward? 7. Under the circumstances prevailing?no nearby neighbors, poverty, privations, hard work, absence of conveniences of a home, both inside and outside the house?explain how it could be that the young couple were very happy in their new surroundings and their lives were full of joy and satisfaction.; 8. How was the Sabbath observed in Catherine's home? What benefits did the inmates receive by keeping the Sabbath? 9. Besides rearing a large family and living saintly in her home, how did Catherine show her interest in the Church and the welfare of her neighbors? 10. What reasons are there for believing the Lord blessed her and her family? 11.: What very important religious principle did she teach her children? What value kas this principle in the lives of both children and adults? 12. What reasons are there for believing Catherine M. Sorensen to be a noble woman? Nominate and Elect PROVE...Vitamin "D" Bread is better by just trying fine quality and rare flavor. COUNTY RECORDER FISHERS Democratic Ticket VITAMIN D BREAD For Efficient, Economic The Big Home-Owned Bakery 1844 South State (Paid Political Adv.) Primary Election CLAUDE. T. BARNES UNITED STATES SENATOR Born in Utah of Pioneers of 1851. Lawyer, farmer, banker, author. A home-man of frugal raising whose heart is in Utah and Constitutional Americanism. A sincere, fearless advocate beholden to no faction. (Paid Political Adv.) Have All of Your FALL CLEANING Done Now! RUGS?CARPETING--DRAPES? UPHOLSTERY  "There is no substitute for QUALITY" Telephone HYLAND 333 | 1597 South 11th Street CLEANERS & DYERS