She is at present President
EDITORIALS
of the Fifth Ward of Provo, Utah. We extend to Sister Merrill and family sincere appreciation for the part this family has had in the advancement of Relief Society work and invoke the blessings of a kind Heavenly Father upon them in their hour of sorrow.
Early Day Minutes
(Santaquin, Utah?June 30, 1878)
THE following minutes taken from the Santaquin Relief Society records under date of June 30, 1878, were read at the President's Banquet recently held in Payson, Utah. The minutes are of interest, bearing evidence of the spirit of our early-day leaders and the clearly defined purposes of the organization in its beginning.
"Minutes of a Special Relief Society Meeting called by Sisters Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. Young, June 30, 1878, in Santaquin, Utah.
"Sister Snow spoke and said she came for the purpose of instructing the Relief Society. She said Relief Society was not organized solely for relief of poor, but to save souls and to help bishops in their work of salvation. She said there could not be a true Church without the Relief Society organization, that she had heard Brother Joseph Smith say so. Husbands cannot save us; our salvation depends upon our own exertions. Therefore we should honor our calling, living the life of a true saint. She said we need not be afraid of doing too much or getting ahead of the brethren and if we did, let them hurry up. A woman who always stays at home is not happy, nor can she make her family happy; she is apt to become a fault finder. Relief Society is to promote home industry and to make the people self-sustaining. The people were advised to save grain and to raise beans.
"Mothers were advised to keep their daughters at home and to watch them, not letting them go away to work. The sisters were advised to be faithful to their duties and to keep God's commandments.
"Sister Zina D. H. Young spoke, bearing her testimony to what Sister Snow had said, stating that everything that was necessary for our salvation was in the Gospel, both temporal and spiritual. 'No one can teach a woman how to rear her children but God,' she stated.
"Mothers must rear the captains of the earth, therefore we should exercise care, study the diets of our families, make our own dainties. We should raise our own silk and be self-sustaining. We can make ourselves the elect if we keep the commandments of God.
"Sister Snow again rose to her feet and spoke regarding the right use of our talents.
"The meeting was dismissed by Brother Stickney. The minds of all present had been impressed with the spirit of God, with a sense of their duties both to God and man."
"The cost of alcohol in human life far exceeds that of war, and the victims of alcoholism do not die out, they drag miserably through a sick life, and transmit their decay to following generations."?Professor T. G. Masaryk. (First President of the Republic of Czechoslovakia.)
Music Department
CHOOSING THE CHORISTER
By Wade N. Stephens
Acting Conductor of the Singing Mothers
IN any musical group, the conductor's ability, not that of the members, determines the excellence of the performance. A fine conductor must have all the abilities of a business executive, an army officer, or the president of an organization. Most important of all she must have a thorough knowledge of music and of the art of singing. Such a combination of talents is of course very rare, and we usually have to be satisfied with somewhat less. But here are a few of the things the Relief Society president should look for when she chooses a chorister.
First of all, the chorister should be a trained musician?not necessarily a professional musician, although these are best?one who has studied music of some sort for a number of years. It is a surprise to the non-musician to hear that the best chorister is not always a singer, but often an instrumentalist. This is due to the fact that an instrumentalist is studying music, while a singer is learning to produce a beautiful tone. Often a singer can turn out a better toned chorus, but has not always the musical education necessary to read and comprehend six lines of music at once, and therefore cannot teach the chorus to sing with musical taste. An instrumentalist more often has musical taste, but might not be as good in tonal problems.
Since the best trained musicians in a small community, such as a ward, are usually teachers, the best potential choristers are, in this order, the piano teacher, the violin or cello teacher, the vocal teacher, and the school music teacher. After these come the advanced students of each. The president should try first to secure one of these for chorister. Often the most necessary qualification?musical study?is overlooked in favor of leadership qualities that are useless without musical knowledge. A timid leader who is a musician is preferable to a confident leader who is not. And, having chosen the chorister, the president should leave the personnel of the chorus entirely in her hands.
The technique of conducting is a special study, which few music teachers will understand, because it is seldom taught except at distant conservatories and universities. This, the most universal lack among our choristers, is easily remedied since the organization of the Church Music Institutes by the General Music Committee. Relief Society choristers can take courses in technique and musicianship that will result in better music both in regular meetings and in the appearances of the Singing Mothers. These courses are available to both chorister and organist. If the musicians of your ward already understand the fundamentals of their art, there is a second year course that any musician can take with profit.
Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony
LESSON 3
THESE TWELVE JESUS SENT FORTH
Helpful References
David O. McKay, Ancient Apostles, pp. 1-5.
James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 139-142, 217-229.
A. B. Bruce, The Training of the Twelve, pp. 29-51, 1, 5, 126, 319, 398. This work is considered the classic in its field. The references given are to the fourth edition, 1889. However, an inexpensive edition of the book has been put out by Harper & Brothers. Consult references to apostles in index.
Robert Freeman, What About the Twelve, pp. 3-11. (Doubleday, Doran & Co., Inc., Garden City, New York, 1929.)
The Savior's Twelve Foreseen by the Prophets?Not only was Christ's advent in the flesh predicted by the ancient prophets, as we know, but the twelve men who were to be apostles and special witnesses of our Lord were also foreseen by them. The Book of Mormon is especially rich in its references to the apostles. The high spirituality of Lehi and Nephi made it possible for them to see in vision the mighty men who were to carry on after the Savior's death.
Nephi records his father's vision in the following words: "And it came to pass that he saw one descending out of the midst of heaven, and he beheld that his luster was above that of the sun at noonday. And he also saw twelve others following him, and their brightness did exceed that of the stars in the firmament. And they came down and went forth upon the face of the earth." (I Nephi 1:9-11.)
Nephi's own vision is recorded as follows: "And I also beheld twelve others following him (Christ)." (I Nephi 11:29.)
Nephi also records the following: "And after he was slain I saw the multitudes of the earth, that they were gathered together to fight against the apostles of the Lamb; for thus were the twelve called by the angel of the Lord... And the angel of the Lord spake unto me again saying: Behold the world and the wisdom thereof; yea, behold the house of Israel hath gathered together to fight against the twelve apostles of the Lamb." (I Nephi 11:34, 35.)
To Nephi was also vouchsafed the remarkable information that Christ's apostles should judge the twelve tribes of Israel; wherefore, the twelve ministers to be raised up among the Nephites should be judged by them. (I Nephi 12:9.)
Some special work of John the Revelator was made known to Nephi as were some other matters pertaining to the apostles. (See I Nephi 14:18-27; 13:24-26.)
WHY did Christ Choose Twelve Witnesses??We may with propriety ask the question, Why did our Lord choose twelve witnesses, or apostles?why not ten, eleven, or fifteen? A complete answer may, of course, be impossible to give. But the Lord often expresses great truths symbolically. Careful observation and meditation on the part of man may often reveal to him the meaning, at least in part, of the Great Architect's symbols.
That the Twelve stand in a close and special relationship to the house of Israel has already been made clear in that they are to be its judges. (See I Nephi 12:9; Luke 22:30.) In his glorified picture of the holy Jerusalem descending from God, John the Revelator describes it as having a "wall great and high, and had twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and names written thereon, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel.... And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb." (Rev. 21:12,14.)
It would seem quite clear that there is a definite symbolic relationship between the twelve tribes of the house of Israel and the chosen Twelve of our Lord. May it not be that each tribe of Israel is represented in the councils of the Father by a member of the Twelve?
THE Character of the Twelve?It is indeed one of the peculiar twists of history that twelve men so famous are yet so little known. When we say little known we mean the details of their lives. Yet the same can be said of their Master. Aside from a few details of his birth and his ministry what do we know of Christ's life? It was the work they wrought rather than cheap publicity that placed the Twelve in the ranks of the immortals. The writers of the New Testament were certainly not afflicted with the biographic mania.
But in the minds of Latter-day Saints there can be no question that all of the Twelve, with the exception of Judas, were mighty men. And who knows but that the arch-traitor of all time had qualities of mind that, rightly directed, would have made him one of the great. We cannot believe
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
that our Lord deliberately singled out one of his Father's children in order to bring to pass his ruin and damnation. It seems likely that Judas had the necessary equipment for a successful ministry, but deliberately failed in his use of it. One is reminded of the Lord's admonition through Amos to ancient Israel: "You only have I known of all the families of the earth: therefore I will visit upon you all your iniquities." (Amos 3:2.) A great Scottish preacher said of this verse, "Special privilege means special responsibility; and if that be evaded or mocked, then destruction is at the doors."
Professor Bruce classifies the Twelve into three groups of four each ranging from the best known to the least known. Judas is placed in the last group though "known only too well." The first group includes the following: Simon Peter, the man of rock; Andrew, Peter's brother; James and John, the sons of Zebedee. The second group includes: Philip, the earnest inquirer; Bartholomew, or Nathanael, the guileless Israelite; Thomas, the melancholy; Matthew, the publican. The third group is comprised of: James (the son) of Alphaeus (James the Less? Mark 15: 40); Lebbaeus, otherwise known as Thaddaeus or Judas of James; Simon the Zealot; Judas, the man of Kerioth, otherwise known as the Traitor.
It will be noted that so far as their outward qualifications were concerned, they were poor and for aught we know, unschooled?Bruce calls them "a band of poor illiterate Galilean provincials." Most of this little band that Christ drew to himself were fishermen. The writer knows from first-hand experience that the fishermen of Galilee are still
LESSON DEPARTMENT
poor and for the most part illiterate. One was a tax-gatherer, the most heartily despised of all professions that a Jew could take up. Certainly none of these men belonged to the so-called intellectual classes, the Scribes or Pharisees. But while this is true we ought not to suppose that they were not mentally keen and intelligent. Their work in later years would seem to indicate that they made up their deficiencies in great part. At any rate our Lord recognized these disciples for what they really were?princes among men.
The Twelve as a group displayed an amazing variety of character. Someone has said, "The whole human race seemed to be represented in that narrow circle. There is Peter the impulsive man of action, and John the quiet man of thought. There is Andrew the eager home missionary, and Thomas the desponding doubter. There is Matthew the Roman tax-gatherer, the representative of foreign tyranny, and Simon the Zealot, the fiery patriot, to whom Rome is anathema. There is Nathanael the Israelite in whom is no guile, and Judas Iscariot who is all guile."
The members of the Twelve had many of the foibles and weaknesses that beset the general run of mankind. Peter thrice denied his Master and later the Apostle Paul could say of the man of rock, "I withstood him to the face, because he stood condemned." (Gal. 2:11.) James and John wanted to call down fire from heaven because the Samaritans did not receive them. (Luke 9:52-55.) It is hard for us to believe that the spiritual John could be party to such a proceeding. Thomas would not believe his fellow members of the Twelve when they testified that they had seen their risen Lord. (John 20:25.) We could probably go on at length in such vein if the records were fuller. On one occasion the Christ found the Twelve disputing over who should be the greatest. (Luke 22:24.) Their hearts at that time were by no means free from the lure cast by the honors and esteem of men, nor, we fear, free from worldly ambitions.
We point out these weaknesses to show what necessity the Savior had to train the Twelve. They had the advantage of the greatest teacher the world has ever known. Let it not be said that God despises trained men. The Twelve had the best training God could afford. The necessities of the Church of that day demanded such trained qualities of heart and mind that the Redeemer "appointed twelve that they might be with him." (Mark 3:14; Matt. 10:1-4; Luke 6:13-16.) To be fit vessels to bear off the Kingdom it was necessary for them to undergo an apprenticeship. The Church needed and demanded men with rigorous training for effective leadership.
THE twelve individually considered. Philip the Inquirer?We have studied some matters pertaining to the Twelve collectively. Now, in this and the next two lessons let us consider those members of it of whom little is known. In later lessons we shall deal with the better known men including Paul who was not a member of the original Twelve.
The Apostle Philip has been characterized by different writers as the Prosaic, The Matter-of-Fact Man, the Inquirer, etc. These appellations seem to indicate that the impression given most individuals by the few references to Philip in the New Testament is that he was what we would commonly call a "practical" man.
Philip, we are told, "was from Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter." (John 1:44.) The record does not tell us that he was a fisherman as were the sons of Zebedee. We know nothing about his family connections or what his profession was. His name is Greek and means "lover of horses." Evidently Philip's parents were not narrowly prejudiced against all foreign influence in Palestine as were so many Jews.
The Gospel says, "Philip finds Nathanael, and says to him, We have found him, of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets wrote, Jesus the son of Joseph, who is from Nazareth." (John 1:45.) Philip, like most Jews in this respect, seems to have been fairly familiar with his Old Testament. Furthermore, he takes it for granted that Moses and the prophetic writers spoke of Christ's coming?a fact of which modern critics might take more notice. When Nathanael gave his famous answer: "Can any good thing come out of Nazareth?" Philip rejoined with a characteristic "Come and see." No argument or fuss here. It was if Philip had said, "Just investigate and find out for yourself. Let the spirit of inquiry be uppermost, Nathanael!"
On another occasion the Christ seeing a great multitude coming to him tested Philip by asking him, "Whence are we to buy bread that these may eat?" Philip simply answered, "Two hundred denaries' worth of bread is not enough for them, that each one may take a little." (John 6:5,7.) It was not the answer our Lord should have loved to hear, but it reflected Philip's practical though worldly wisdom.
Philip was present with Christ on so-called Palm Sunday when the Master's path was strewn with branches from the palm trees as he entered Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover. Certain Greeks who had come to the celebration wished to meet our Lord and for that purpose asked Philip for the privilege. Why they first approached Philip is not clear. It may have been by accident, but the probabilities are that they knew his name which, as we have already seen, was Greek and so took confidence in him as one who would understand them. But the cautious Philip knew that Jews were suspicious of foreigners, however devout. He therefore laid the case before Andrew and to every reader's gratification the two men told the Savior. This led to a deeply spiritual discourse in which the Christ said, "And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men to myself." (See John 12:20-32.) Not Jews only, but Greeks also!
Philip's famous request on the occasion of the Last Supper will always be remembered, "Lord, show us the Father, and it sufficeth us." The Christ's answer is a loving rebuke for his lack of insight. "Am I so long time with you, and dost thou not know me, Philip? He that has seen me has seen the Father; how sayest thou, Show us the Father?" (John 14:8.)
But this man with all his limitations was judged worthy by our Lord to be one of his immortal Twelve.
Questions and Problems
(Deal only with as many as time permits.)
1. What are the powers and duties of an Apostle?
2. Think of all the reasons you can why so little information has been left us concerning the lives of so many of the ancient Twelve.
3. Why did Christ spend so much time training the Twelve? Discuss the particular value of training to a Latter-day Saint.
4.