Her face looked drained and bleak—utterly colorless—but there was burning
AUNT HEARTHA
pain in her eyes. Never before had he seen Christy like this—his clear-eyed, trusty pal—the one girl in all the world who had no skill in evasion or lies.
"Is it something I've done, Christy?"
"No."
In spite of her outward calm, Christy's throat cramped and her voice was near suffocation. "I can't marry you, Hap. That's all."
Hap's face looked haggard. He cleared his throat roughly. It seemed to him in this emotional crisis that Christy wasn't Christy at all. Another girl stood in her place before him. And this girl was unfeeling, hardened, acutely cruel! Worst of all, there was nothing he could do about it. The silent rage that seized him was gruelling to his nerves.
"I'll take the interurban car back to Cedarville," announced Christy.
MECHANICALLY the two of them made their way back to the little blue roadster by the gate. With chill hands, Hap clutched the wheel and they were off. At the depot Christy forced back unshed tears and nodded goodbye. Hap replied with a fixed, unseeing stare and a frigid bow. The train pulled out of Riverbend with its customary stutter of start and stop. Soon it gained its usual rhythm. Hap stood watching until it had disappeared behind "Queen's Bluff"—a cliff of colored stone near the turn of the track.
"Queen's Bluff," he ejaculated ironically as he leaped into his car and banged the door. His reckless driving might have cost him a heavy fine had there been a rush of traffic.
Upon entering the door he stumbled over Christy's valise filled with art material. This gave him pause. He reached down and unlocked it. There was every needful tool and brush in perfect order and readiness for a day of sketching.
"She even denied herself that special treat," said Hap aloud. He was certain that their suffering at parting had been mutual. He sat down and examined the contents of her art folio. There he found sketches on various themes—a face, a bust, a tree, a distant hill, even a placard bearing a printed quotation, "When half-gods go, the gods arrive."
SOMEONE was stirring in the basement tinkering with the stoker. Hap listened to big footsteps, and presently Uncle Alec stalked into the room. Uncle Alec could see trouble on Hap's brow and blurted out, "It couldn't by any chance have been a lover's quarrel between you and Christy?"
"We've never quarreled in our lives and we've been seeing each other more than three years," explained Hap.
"Then how come she's gone?"
"As to the reason, Uncle Alec, I'm safe in saying you know as much about it as I do."
Uncle Alec sniffed in a droll, bewildered way as if he might accidentally scent the hidden clue. "Is it something you might have done, Hap, or is it something you've failed to do?"
"I didn't ask. Is there anything I've left undone, Uncle Alec?"
Uncle Alec pondered, cleared his throat as if to speak, then remained silent.
"Come on! Out with it!" urged Hap.
"Well—there's Heartha. Did you have a good heart-to-heart chat with Christy concernin' Heartha?"
"I never mentioned her name. Not even once."
"I thought maybe you would-a mentioned how nice to have a visit from Heartha once in a while. It would have been handy-like to have said so when you and Christy were lookin' over these rooms together."
At these words there dawned a mysterious awareness in Hap's eyes as he gazed confidently into Uncle Alec's kindly face.
"What do you know about Heartha, Uncle Alec?"
"I only know what I saw with my own eyes and heard with my ears. Wasn't I in the funeral twenty years ago—the double funeral for Christy's parents? Her mother and daddy died within twenty-four hours of one another. I was present at the services.
"Heartha took Christy Clemens, a motherless infant only three weeks old, and did a mother's part by her. You know what my meanin' is when I say she went the second mile. There's a bit of scripture that exhorts one to travel the second mile, do more than's asked. Well, Heartha Wylie went the second mile as a mother. Christy had schoolin', sewin', cookin', music lessons, parties. I bet my bottom dollar she has had more fine clothes in her young life than Heartha's ever owned in all these years."
Hap seemed profoundly touched, meditative, and gravely silent.
"Well, my boy, I guess you've heard enough. It's just another story of Ruth cleavin' to Naomi. Christy can't tear away from Heartha, at least not in one sudden jerk. It's like this, Hap, you're young. You're not a mind-reader. It takes the mellowin' touch of time to be able to discern the inside workin's of a woman's mind. Comes like a gift to some few men."
HAP'S eyes were aglow with a strange illumination. He grabbed up his hat and said, "I'm off, Uncle Alec. I'm going to beat that interurban car into Cedarville."
"It's goin' to be a race, Hap. The train has half an hour the start."
So the glossy, blue roadster went zooming down the lane. It was already eleven o'clock and Hap sped along as if trying to overtake ten-thirty a. m. The train was due in Cedarville at noon. Hap managed to reach the station a minute and a half before it pulled in. His alert eyes soon caught a glimpse of Christy as she falteringly descended the platform steps.
"Christy!"
She looked up and they stood face to face. He grasped her hands and said in low, clear tones, "The sun didn't go into a total eclipse, girlie."
She glanced up into his sparkling blue eyes with a dazed, wondering smile. Gently and quickly he ushered her into the glossy, blue roadster and they soon reached the wee, gray cottage of Heartha Wylie. Here they found the snow-path swept to the door. Aunt Heartha was seemingly unsurprised to see them. She was accustomed to their various quirks and whims. At the same time they were totally unaware that Uncle Alec had interceded for Hap in a telephone conversation with Heartha—the most lengthy indulgence of the kind he had ever allowed himself.
"Aunt Heartha, will you ride over to Riverbend with Christy and me?" importuned Hap. "We want to show you some improvements on Grandma Worth's old home."
Gallantly, almost tenderly, Hap escorted Aunt Heartha into the little blue roadster. She seemed as bright-eyed as a snowbird ensconced between the two. The white fields were a-glitter stretching to right and left on the highway. It didn't seem long until they were back at the little homestead. Uncle Alec was still there. He stretched out warm, welcome hands to Heartha, and kissed Christy's forehead. Christy hurriedly gathered up the sketches Hap had scattered here and there in the room.
"You'll excuse us, Aunt Heartha, while we carry this case of art material upstairs," said Hap.
"Go right ahead, you two," said Uncle Alec. "I'll take care of Heartha."
"I wonder what's on Uncle Alec's mind?" queried Hap of Christy when they reached the landing.
"Oh," said she, "they're old pals and neighbors. Just glad to see one another. That's all!"
"Aunt Heartha's a dear soul," said Hap warmly.
Christy sought his arms and he enfolded her for one long, blissful moment.
"Aunt Heartha will want to see the house," reminded Christy.
They found her and Uncle Alec in the kitchen pouring chocolate and spreading sandwiches.
"Oh, I just tucked a whole-wheat loaf and a pat of butter into my satchel," explained Aunt Heartha. "Folks are sure to get hungry."
"Aunt Heartha's a knowin' soul," spoke up Uncle Alec. "And we may as well tell you youngsters out and out—"
"Come now, what's all the hurry?" asked Heartha, looking up quickly into Uncle Alec's face.
"Can't they stand a bit of a shock?" asked Uncle Alec.
"What do you mean?" asked Christy.
"Just one thing. Your Aunt Heartha and I have agreed to set up our own housekeepin' back in my old home in Cedarville."
"You've made up your minds in a hurry!" gasped Christy.
"I'll say so!" rejoined Hap.
"It's all on natural principles," explained good old compromising Uncle Alec. "You young folk need to climb the stairs step by step while we of the older generation find it a heap handier to take the elevator."
Relief Society Magazine
By Edna J. Gardiner
SINCE its inception the Relief Society Magazine has been an organ of spiritual uplift for all Latter-day Saint women. Its advent into the homes each month elevates and promotes a spirit of cooperation and peace. It links members of the various stakes and missions into one united sisterhood. Containing the subject matter for each week's lessons in Relief Society, it is invaluable as the official guide. Stories, articles, poems, biography and notes of interest constitute the subject matter found here. Editorials are timely and well chosen. May we, as members, appreciate this publication and be loyal to the slogan: "The Relief Society Magazine in the home of every member."
The Children's Reading
By Florence Ivins Hyde
NO. IX—THE GREAT COMPANIONS SPEAK
"Could we give one gift to every child,
We should choose the love of books."
—William Frederick Bigelow.*
I REMEMBER once riding for days over almost endless stretches of prairie, and looking anxiously across the space to the far horizon for the appearance of some human being who would give a sense of security to fill the place of that aloneness which takes possession of one in the great out-of-doors. With the appearance of an occasional car, from whose driver we received the assurance that we were traveling in the right direction, we felt that we had met a friend, and fear vanished in the knowledge that though the distance might be long, we would eventually reach the place we were seeking.
When I became the possessor of a progeny of three growing children, and was learning that no sooner was one problem in some manner solved than another loomed like a mountain before me, I felt the same awe that I had experienced in looking out across that desert space—the fear that we might be on the wrong road. Then it was that I felt with Julia Ward Howe that it is a "delightful but terrible thing to be a mother." I had not yet become adjusted to the fact that with the passing of each stage my children would die and had not yet learned that the "mother of boys and girls must die, too, if the mother of men and women is to be born."
As my family approached adolescence I stood in Chicago before two paintings which depicted the change in the American family in the last one hundred years. "In the first, a young lover is alighting from a carriage to call upon his fiancée. He starts across a velvety sweep of lawn shaded by magnificent elm trees. Beyond rises in dignity a massive brick mansion. With gallant yet humble decorum he advances to speak to those who have come out to greet him—the modest and fluffily dainty young woman, her mother and father of gracious but stately bearing, and the keen-eyed grandmother, zealous guardian of the name and traditions of the family.
"In the modern scene, a very young fellow, incessantly active, starts the honk of his Ford horn echoing insistently down the solidly paved canyon of a street above which rises a massive apartment house. He cranes his neck up toward an open window on the third floor out of which leans a girl smoking a cigarette. Her expression seems to indicate that she 'knows all the answers' already. She gesticulates her answer to him. There need be never a thought of a moment's delay for bidding adieu to her elders, because her parents are already gone to their country club and her stranger-grandmother is keeping a late appointment for a facial and permanent in preparation for tomorrow's
THE CHILDREN'S READING
departure on the next lap of her perpetual and restless gadding about."*
TO fortify my family against such shallow rootage I appealed to my God of philosophy. He answered my plea with a quotation from the immortal Goethe, "He who is plenteously provided for from within needs little from without." And so I retreated to my world of books—"noble-minded books, books that lead to contemplation, books that reveal the charm and joy of life." In them I have met helpful companions, often more potent than those we meet in life—the kind of companions who fill me with new hope and energy, make me face more bravely the perplexities of life. I found enshrined in this world of literature great companions who furnish the solution to numberless problems in a time when the family as a social institution seems to be threatened by the noise and bluster and sophistication of the age.
From one Great Companion, Samuel Butler, I learned that fathers and mothers are to be honored, not because of their accidental parentage, but only because they are honorable. I must, then, make myself honorable. Florence Nightingale reminds me that it is so important for a woman to be a person. I must, then, develop opinions of my own. From the Great Companions of moral education I learn that most of the problems of today are not problems at all but symptoms which must be studied and the remedy applied line upon line, precept upon precept until the troublesome thing is eradicated.
*From The Modern Family and the Church by Margaret Westcott Wieman. Harper Brothers.
When gritty irritation hangs in the family atmosphere I learn that an essay or a story from one of the Great Companions has the same effect as pouring oil on troubled waters. If my young son casts admiring glances at a frivolous, giggling, young damsel, I seek consolation in the philosophy of George Eliot when she said that many a man who in youth would have been satisfied with nothing less than a Venus or a Psyche has settled down in middle life with a woman who waddled. If the boy of my daughter's choice does not please me, I may quote William Penn, "Never marry but for love, but see thou lovest what is lovely." When spending seems to be their greatest fault, I preach with Benjamin Franklin, "A penny saved is a penny earned."
The tragedies of youth are as real as the tragedy of old age. When the Slough of Despond threatens to engulf them as it did Christian of Pilgrim's Progress fame, I quote, "Life is a lovely thing when our hopes are high, but the secret is to know it lovely and loveworthy when we have no hopes at all." And if preaching becomes a bore, I relieve the situation by quoting Mark Twain, "It is noble to be good. It is nobler to tell others how to be good—and is so much easier."
There has always been and will continue to be as long as the world lasts, a group of men and women more distinguished than others. They are those who have made use of nature's gifts to them. Many of them belong to the Great Companions and after an hour with them, I return to my practical world and my family singing, "If I could give one gift to every child, it would be a love of books."
Conclusion of Series
Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd
By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
CHAPTER SIX
I WAS quite elated over the way my various officers were assuming their responsibilities. So far their outlined plans for the season's work had met with instant approval. It has been my experience that any well thought out plan prepared and presented intelligently by the officers will be happily received by the members. They have confidence in their leaders.
The day of her first lesson, Mrs. Horne, the Sociology class leader, came before the class with a map. On it was indicated with pictures the sections where the principal industries of men are carried on. She had drawn it herself and had tacked it to a piece of beaver-board so it could be moved in and out easily. She began her lesson by telling this incident:
"My neighbor raises the most beautiful zinnias and asters. They have taken many prizes and every woman in the neighborhood is envious of her success. I was determined this last spring to get some of her plants so I, too, might have some lovely flowers this fall. I got some and set them out around a circular plot of lawn.
"Imagine my disappointment when they turned out to be sickly, spindly plants with few blossoms, while my neighbor's blossoms again took first prize at the fair. What do you suppose was wrong?"
I could see a smile come over the face of a woman in the audience. She raised her hand. "If I remember rightly you planted your flowers and then forgot them for a month. Beyond watering them every two or three days you left them to shift for themselves. The one who gave you the plants worked with hers at least two hours each day."
Everyone laughed and Mrs. Horne added, "Yes. The way I raise flowers is a joke in the neighborhood. From lack of care my flowers showed very little of the possibilities contained in the parent plant."
Then leaving the subject she asked abruptly, "Now, someone tell me what sociology is."
When someone answered it was the study of human relationships she turned to the map. At approximately the place in the state where we were she drew a large circle and within it wrote some names.
"Here is where the Perkins family live. We shall have them with us all winter so I want you to know them. They are: grandfather; father and mother; John, age 24; Rufus, age 21; Francis, 19; and two little ones, Wesley, 10, and Agnes, 6. Grandfather Perkins came into this country when it was new and took up a homestead. Later he sold his farm and he and the father went into business in town. But now we have Rufus and John coming on. The business is not large enough to absorb them and they cannot take up a homestead. Then there are the two little ones. They haven't a farm to wander over nor chores to do, so what about them? Where are they going to play? What schools will be open to them—what chance to learn a trade or profession?"
She was a skillful questioner and by her questions tied up the lives of the Perkins family with our past lessons on Diminishing Resources,
DEAR TO THE HEART OF THE SHEPHERD
Drift to the Cities, Housing, Communication, etc., until the class had heard a very comprehensive review of the past two years' work and knew how each lesson affected the lives of the Perkins. She took the entire class period for it and left them anxious to know what the future promised for the family. I have never seen greater interest exhibited in any subject. It promised well for the season's work.
But while the discussion was going on my mind lingered over the story of the flowers. Why should human plants be stunted in their growth because of lack of cultivation? When the class period was over I arose and expressed some such thoughts. Then I said:
"In our ward is a family who comes from strong sturdy parent stock, but who need their environment enriched to promote better growth. Their soil isn't conducive to good development. I am wondering if we couldn't add a few things to enrich the soil and make their chance of development much more sure."
I was careful to keep my description impersonal. Within a week I had a complete set of clothes for the family to wear for best. I had three good beds, some reputable bedding and six chairs. Mrs. Holsinger gave an old leather davenport that was sturdy enough to withstand the hard usage it would receive. Some of these things had come from the bishop, some from our cupboard and some from the women. Then, as if providence were helping us, Mrs. Holman became ill and had to go to the hospital for a few days. That gave me a needed excuse. Bishop had found a part-time job for Mr. Holman so I sent the Peters, husband and wife, to the Holman home to clean up. The Peters were settled in a small house nearby. After a few pushes and pulls and half-threats the big farmer had come to life. Now he attacked his neighbor's home with determination. He painted and calcimined and repaired. Mrs. Peters washed and scrubbed. The large back room was made habitable. The good furniture was exchanged for the old. It was a clean habitable home to which Mrs. Holman returned. It gave the Peters groceries but the effect on the family helped was negligible though their gratitude was unbounded. The habits of years were too inflexible. Mrs. Peters helped her for a few days and for a few more she kept up the appearance but not being well she had an excuse for slipping back into her old ways.
ONE evening when Tim was working I decided to go to the store and walk home with him. I had been studying and felt that a walk in the open would do me good. I peeked in at the children. They were all sleeping soundly. They would be all right for fifteen or twenty minutes. I locked the door after me and walked swiftly down the street.
It was a dark night but crisply cool and invited swift walking, and I was happy. My work was going well. People were beginning to forget the fact that I was a young president. My home problems were fading away. Tim had been home with me more than usual and I had so many things for which to be thankful.
I had covered three of the four blocks when I became aware of people ahead of me, a boy and a girl, and they were walking close together. I could hear the excited pitch of the girl's voice but could catch no words. They were quarreling. Not wishing to embarrass them I turned to cross the street and thus avoid passing them. As I turned I was quite near and heard the girl say, "You just try it, Don Grow. If you marry her—," the rest was lost as I crossed the street.
That had been Nedra Williams. There was no doubt as to whom she meant by "her." I found my thoughts leaping here and there, accepting and rejecting possibilities. Was it right to let Salle go ahead and marry him? Was it any business of mine? Should I tell her what I had heard? After all just what had I heard? Nothing that would stand repeating. I could tell her my suspicions but did she not know the situation better than I? Salle was not dumb and she was going into this marriage with her eyes open. I would ask Tim. He had a supply of common sense that was refreshing.
The last few yards I almost ran. I went to the side door that he used. It was locked. That was not unusual. He would not leave it open. Skipping around to the front I looked in. There was a dim light burning but only the one that is always left on at nights. I rattled the door but there was no response. I turned away. Could I have missed him? It was possible but not probable. There was nothing to do but go home.
Suddenly the joy of the night was gone. Problems gathered thick about me in the dark. It was cold and from every side things leered at me. I passed a boy and girl lingering by a tree on the corner and was opposite them before I realized they were the ones I had passed before. Only now he had his arm around her and they were murmuring in low tones.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
I was nearly to the street light on the last corner when quick steps sounded beside me and a dearly familiar voice demanded: "What are you doing out alone this time of night again, Young. Lady?" "Tim. I wanted to walk home with you. I thought you were working at the store." "I have been." "But you weren't there." "I left the store more than half an hour ago." There was an edge of caution to his words that aroused my anger. Wasn't I his wife? Why shouldn't I know where he had been? "Where were you?" Tact and confidence were swept away before the suspicion that entered my heart. Perhaps the couple on the corner had something to do with it. I had to know where he had been, what he had been doing. "T'm not at liberty to tell." "Why? Why should you be doing something you cannot tell me about? I have a right to know." "Don't be demanding, Dona. There are things come up in your work that will not bear: repeating. This is one of those things." "Oh." It was not until later that the unreasonableness of my attitude struck me it its full light. Just then I couldn't sense anything except that our confidence was broken by terribly secret things. Only one fact stood out from the evening's happenings that brought joy. Salle had not yet married Don. Perhaps now she never would. (To be Continued ) ENV Women We Should Know Agnes Lovendahl Stewart—Master of Arts—Business Woman By Ramona W. Cannon AGNES LOVENDAHL STEWART is more interested in talking about modern girls and their opportunities in business than in talking about herself. Yet her own achievements are outstanding. She is regarded as one of the leading figures among women in business in the West. Both her talents and her experience have been unusually diverse, and the advice she gives to others to work at whatever offers, for the sake of development, she has always taken herself. She spent three years teaching in the Church schools, took a Master of Arts degree at Columbia University, and on the side did all the work that institution offered in journalism. She wrote her thesis for graduation on the subject, ""Mormons in Literature." She gave up teaching to take a position in Gillam's Advertising Agency as a stenographer because she wanted to enter the field of business. A year later she began to write advertising copy. She went to Auerbach's department store as assistant in the advertising department, and now as Sales Promotion Manager, she is familiar with the buying, personnel work, fashion shows, window displays, interior displays, and many other lines. She can handle this important position only because she has developed herself highly in the various phases of merchandising. Personality and temperament have been important in her success. Common sense, sympathetic human understanding, a sense of justice, reliability, are outstanding traits of Mrs. Stewart. She has dignity with humor, and efficiency with polish. Her intellect, swift and true, allows of no wasting of precious moments. Through her power of self-discipline, her many qualities are blended into an harmonious, wellpoised personality, prepared to meet any kind of situation intelligently. PERHAPS one reason Mrs. Stewart loves to discuss the opportunities that are open to young girls today is because she has two young daughters who will, before very many years, be branching out into careers of their own. Mrs. Stewart, through her work comes in contact with the many fields of activity in which women have, of recent years, become successful.. "In just the few years since I graduated from college, women have made strides that are simply amazing—and if you go back in history less than one hundred and fifty years to the start of the factory system when women first began going out of the home and into the business world, you will find that the progress has been nothing short of miraculous," is Mrs. Stewart's enthusiastic comment. "Can you believe that just about a hundred years ago—in the decade between 1830 and 1840—women and little girls worked in the textile factories of New England from twelve to fifteen hours a day, six days a week, and for this heavy labor received the magnificent sum of $1.50 a week! Not only have conditions greatly changed, but now women may use their abilities in many more occupations," she adds. 614 "In the retail field, with which I am most familiar, she can achieve success in selling, in buying, in executive management, in personnel work, in advertising, display, or sales promotion work, in merchandising, or in office work—such a variety in this one single field, that it offers opportunity for many types of personalities, and many different kinds of ability." THAT woman should achieve success in retail business seems a very natural development. Since she has always been the one to do the shopping for the family—buying, so experts estimate, more than 80 per cent of the family's purchases—it is natural for her to know what kind of sheets,. Blankets, draperies, bedspreads, pots and pans, dresses and hats, that women want. It is natural, too, that she should help to plan, design, and make these things and many others that women use in their homes and for their families. In colonial times in New England, and in pioneer times in our own western states, every home was a little factory, where the things the family needed were manufactured by the mother, with the help of her daughters. Little by little these activities, which kept a woman's day so full of happy work, were taken over by machinery in the factories outside the home, or were done more quickly and easily by machinery in the home. So, when women go out into business and industry today, they are just continuing the "women's work" that their great-great-great-grandmothers did in their homes before the days of machinery. The only difference is that now women do this work in a different environment and in a more specialized way. "HOW can a girl prepare herself for a career in business?" is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE one of the questions Mrs. Stewart is most frequently asked. "By getting the best education she can possibly secure, by taking part in school and church activities, and by working whenever she gets the chance," is Mrs. Stewart's answer, based on her own experience. From 1914 to 1917, when Agnes Lovendahl was just "one of the girls' at the U. Of U., she was partially earning her own way by working as a telephone operator at the University switchboard, and selling behind the counter in various stores on Saturdays and during vacations. At one time or another, she has sold almost every type of merchandise a department store carries, and she has also had "behind the scenes work" unpacking china from its barrels of straw, and wrapping bundles. She recalls with a chuckle that the hardest problem she ever had to face in the retail business was figuring out how to wrap a broom, a dishpan and a set of glassware during a rush sale, while an impatient customer fidgeted. During her college days she also found time to work on the University Chronicle, the Utonian, and the Pen, because she loved to write and to draw pictures. She also enjoyed working in Sunday School and Mutual, and writing for the Church magazines. "I think I was most fortunate in having to work while I was attending school because I am now sure that the varied experiences I gained in that way have been the most valuable preparation I could possibly have had for my present job. I believe it was just as important to me as the formal education I obtained in school," is Mrs. Stewart's comment. She added that she would advise every girl to take part in school ac- AGNES LOVENDAHL STEWART—MASTER OF ARTS 615 tivities, in church and ward activities, and to work during her school - vacations if her health and energy permit. These experiences are most valuable in developing a well-rounded personality. GIRLS of today have great opportunities open to them, and' each opportunity is a challenge to the best they have to offer," continues Mrs. Stewart. "Not very long ago, there were only a few professions considered proper and fitting for a girl." How different now! If a girl scribbles cartoons all over her school. Textbooks, and goes into raptures over the colors of a sunset, she'll probably never be happy unless she is giving expression in some creative way to her artistic bent. So she can become a fashion artist, and draw the luscious pictures of glamorous ladies wearing gowns and furs so superbly that every woman who reads the newspaper or magazine in which the sketch appears, immediately is consumed with the desire to look like that—or at least to own the clothes that the glamorous lady wears! The things her clever fingers can portray for advertisements are legion: amusing children, teen-age and college fashions, still-life studies of smart accessories. Some women with a talent for art become illustrators for books or magazines. Others with artistic talent combined with a flair for clothes become designers of dresses, underwear, coats, or children's frocks. When they are successful, as a very great many of them are, they command very high salaries indeed. Sonie, with a more exotic trend, become designers for the stage or screen, while others design patterns for fabrics, styles for Turniture. One high-salaried woman employed by a large mail order firm, does nothing but design packages in which their products are to appear, and as a side-line she has stream-lined their refrigerators, ranges and washing machines. "There are so many opportunities for the use of a talent for drawing or painting that it would take hours to name them all!" says Mrs. Stewart. For the girl who has literary talent, there opens up the entire field of advertising. This is a very big field, and a very attractive one from the point of view of the absorbing interest its many and varied subjects have. To work in advertising is a college education in itself, because if you must study the manufacture of aluminum the first hour of your day, in order to write appealingly about the new utensils for waterless cooking, during the second hour you are quite as likely to be digging into the details of the latest Paris fashion openings. No wonder advertising is a fascinating job for the girl who likes to write! For the girl with radiant enthusiasm, who talks well, who likes people, who has boundless energy, there opens up a splendid career in selling merchandise—a career that is full of romance and delight, and that has a real future if one is willing to work. For the girl who is a keen judge of values, who weighs and compares, who is interested in textiles and materials, in how things are made, who has a fine sense of style, and who at the same time works well with other people, can sell with enthusiasm, and has a good mind for statistics—for this girl there is the possibility of a career as a buyer in a department store or specialty shop. It's a big order, to have so many diverse qualifications, but it is a big job, too, with big rewards! Quite aside from the financial rewards—and a buyer's job 616 is one with an excellent salary—there are other rewards that also attract. - Buyers for important fashion departments make frequent trips to the markets in California, Chicago and New York. Buyers for some of the larger stores and syndicates make buying trips to Europe, although of late years these have become more rare. The buying job is a challenging, fascinating one, for the girl who is willing to accept responsibility. For the girl who is interested in people, who is kindly, human and understanding, who is a natural'born teacher, there is a splendid field in personnel work in retail business. A Personnel Director has many duties: teaching fashion facts, and merchandise information to salespeople; welcoming new employees to the organization, giving them training in system so that they can work efficiently; helping the co-workers in any problem or difficulty; planning and carrying out the details of various activities of the organization, such as parties and outings. For the girl with a keen sense of fashion, who instinctively knows what goes with what, and who can accurately judge what the women will want to wear next spring or next fall—for such a girl, if she has also an infinite abundance of tact and good nature, there is an opportunity to work as fashion co-ordinator. Sometimes this involves also the presentation of fashion shows, and the giving of radio talks on the store's merchandise, in which case she should have a pleasing voice, and enthusiasm for her subject so great that it fairly bubbles over and spreads contagiously to her audience. "Retail business offers almost boundless opportunities to girls with many different aptitudes and desires," says Mrs. Stewart. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "CONSIDER for a moment, a few women who have been outstandingly successful: Mrs. Hortense Odlum has done a wonderful job as president of Bonwit Teller's. In New York, and has become nationally recognized for her leadership in that fine store. Her career 'is doubly interesting to us because she is a Utah girl from a pioneer family of southern Utah. Another successful woman in retailing is Mary Lewis, recently resigned as vice-president of Best & Co. Of New York, who earned in that position more than $53,000 a year. Think of Margaret McBride, radio commentator, whose salary is $52,000 a year. Consider also Miss Tobe, fashion prognosticator par excellence, who reports fashion news for smart stores throughout the country, and whose income is in the very high brackets! Shouldn't such records encourage girls starting on their careers today?" But of course the top looks a long, long distance away when one is just beginning. "I know by heart what every girl says,' comments Mrs. Stewart. "She cries with great despair, 'Every employment manager asks what experience I have had, and when I 'say I haven't had any, he says there isn't any opening! How can I get experience if nobody will give me a job?' That is the first big hurdle the beginner has to meet!" Mrs. Stewart has gained in her business experience a few bits of wisdom which she passes on to the beginner in the following Do's and Don't's: "Get the best education you can afford—both general cultural education and also vocational training for the job you want.. "Keep on studying after you get AGNES LOVENDAHL STEWART—MASTER OF ARTS 617 out of school—your education has just begun when you graduate! "Be thoroughly prepared for the work you want to do—not just halfbaked. If you want a job as stenographer, be sure your shorthand and typing are excellent—not just passable. In any job be sure your preparation is sound and thorough as far as you can get it in school. "Don't get discouraged at the first refusal—come back again and again and again! "Be well groomed when you make your application —- remember you must make a good impression in the first ten seconds. "Know exactly what you are going to say when you apply for a job— it doesn't hurt to write down all your good points and memorize them. It's a good idea, too, to practice what you're going to say—you won't be so likely to forget in your nervousness later before the interviewer. "Remember that no matter how much education you have had, you will still have to start at the bottom and work your way up. The education should help you to rise more rapidly, but it isn't an Open Sesame to the big jobs—you still have to go through the apprenticeship period, gaining the knowledge that only experience can give. "Take whatever job is offered, even if it isn't exactly the job you had hoped to get—it will still give you the right to. Use the magic phrase which is so important: J Have Had Experience! "When you get an interview with a prospective employer remember the following points: Don't slump or slouch—sit erect but at ease; don't fidget with your handkerchief or tap your fingers on the arm of your chair—sit quietly no matter how painful it is; look at the employer when he asks questions and when you answer them; walk briskly — many an applicant has lost the chance of a job because her walk was listless or tired. "Most important of all, remember that in getting or keeping a job, one of the most effective words in the English language is SMILE! "And after you get a job," continued Mrs. Stewart, "'it is important to do it every day to the best of your ability, studying all the while, so that when a vacancy occurs above you, you are ready and prepared to move up a step. Employers will give opportunity for advancement to those within their organization who have the ability, knowledge and ambition to progress." MRS. STEWART?'S own career has demonstrated this fact, for the Auerbach Company has given her opportunity to advance from the position of assistant in the advertising department, to the position of Sales Promotion Manager, which involves supervision of newspaper, radio and direct mail advertising, window and interior displays, and other activities connected with selling. Although she is very keenly interested in the many fascinating phases of her job, she finds the greatest delight of her life in her home, and in the two daughters who are adored by Mrs. Stewart and her husband, Robert Stewart. "There has been no loss of affection in our home because of my business activities," says Mrs. Stewart. "I am more alive, because my work keeps me alert and interested in everything." Her greatest ambition is to be a worthy friend and companion to her daughters, and her greatest hope is to be able to give them the educational opportunities that will enable them to live their lives fully and completely, realizing their greatest possibilities for mental development and spiritual service. Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon SEPTEMBER—Take one's work seriously no matter what the field. It is one step toward success. A COMMENDABLE enterprise is the County Woman's Market, situated on the outskirts of Washington in Maryland. The farm women own and run this market as an avenue to dispose of the products of their farms. Each woman has her own stall and dispenses her fresh fruits, vegetables, dairy and poultry products or fresh bread, cakes, pies or whatever her special fancy may he. The market is popular with Washington ladies, who quite informally drive out to replenish their larders with choice viands each Wednesday and Saturday. MARIE of Rumania is dead. Noted for her beauty, her wit, and queenly grace; with the wisdom of the statesman she controlled the destiny of Rumania and other principalities of Southern Europe for generations. MLLE. SUZANNE LENGLEN, daring unconquered queen of the world's tennis courts, died last July in Paris, France. She was champion in the Olympic games at Antwerp and in the tournaments at Wimbledon. DR. ELZADA CLOVER and Lois Jotter, Michigan University botanists, women members of the expedition that rowed the Colorado River from Green River in Utah through the gorges of the Grand Canyon, gathered over 300 rare plant specimens during their thrilling experience. No other women have ever made this trip. MRS: VERA S. KING, wife of Utah's senior Senator, according to an article in the "Washington Star," possesses unusual charm and decided literary taste. She is founder of a club called "The Seven Arts" and has a novel ready for publication. LILY PONS, Metropolitan opera star, scored a triumph almost equal to the great Jenny Lind in her recent tour of South American cities. In Buenos Aires the city took on the aspect of a national holiday. ARGARET ARMSTRONG'S latest contribution to literature is "Fanny Kemble, A _ Passionate Victorian". This biography is more colorful than any work of fiction. It is a brilliant scintilating portrait of a fascinating and great woman. In the book are also passages of other Kembles of who Thackeray's daughter Anne wrote, "The Kembles strike one somehow as a race apart." ELIZABETH BANKS died recently in London. Her book, "The Almighty Dollar," is said to have caused a change in presenting Americans at court. PHYLLIS CRAWFORD with her book, "Hello the Boat," won the Julia Ellsworth $3,000 award for the best children's book of the year.