Rebels
By Alice Lee Eddy
"SO this is Paris!" Jane Martin said to herself bitterly as she gazed at the desolate sunbaked landscape. Little heat waves shimmered in the sun and a fine gray dust sifted over the tops of her trim new oxfords. "No wonder the pay is good; it's worse than I thought it would be!" She followed the stage driver disconsolately into the bus station which was also the Post Office, general store, and hotel.
A plump, rosy-cheeked woman hurried forward to meet her. "You must be the new teacher," she said. "I'm Mrs. Snow." She led Jane upstairs to a large sunny room, chatting happily all the way. "The teacher always stays with me; it's about the only place she can stay, but the girls have all seemed happy here. This is always the teacher's room; it has a desk and book shelves. The girls like it because it has the biggest closet and is always sunny and warm in winter."
Jane noticed that it was immaculately clean, that the bed seemed to be a good one, that the old-fashioned rocking chair looked particularly comfortable, and that the ruffled window curtains and braided rugs were well selected and cheery.
"It's a lovely room," she said sincerely, "but I'm afraid it will be more than I can afford."
Mrs. Snow nodded understandingly as she quoted a price well within Jane's budget. "The girls always want to save as much as they can," she said. "With some it is trousseaus and with others it is school debts." She looked hopefully at Jane and Jane was surprised to hear herself confiding, "School debts, and I must send some to my mother each month." She didn't add that she was a recent and unwilling recruit to the army of school teachers because an injury to her hand had ended a promising musical career.
At her genial landlady's suggestion, Jane remained downstairs that first evening and met the various people who came into the store. She found them pleasant and ready to meet her more than half way. Mrs. Snow whispered hurried explanations and descriptions of the people presented. "President of the School Board," she hissed, as a tall dark man, distinguished looking in spite of rough boots and a straw hat, came up and was presented as John Talbot.
As he turned to leave, John Talbot came face to face with a man who bore him a remarkable resemblance. The second man was heavier and obviously older but he had the same dark handsomeness. The two exchanged no word as they stalked past each other, but John Talbot's face evinced a dark scowl. The newcomer gave no sign that he saw the look or the man. He moved on to his Post Office box as though no one was near.
Later, Mrs. Snow, anxious to inform Jane on all matters of interest, recalled the little drama: "That was Henry Talbot, John's oldest brother. He's at outs with all the Talbots and everybody else. Wealthiest man around here. He sits alone out there in his big house just waiting for chances to outdo the other Talbot boys. If one of them gets a fine registered animal, Henry gets two. If one of them buys a new piece of machinery Henry gets a bigger one. When John got elected to the school board Henry did too. Folks thought it would be quite exciting to get them together on the board that way, but Henry fooled 'em as usual, and never goes to the meetings."
"How foolish," exclaimed Jane. "Whatever makes this Henry Talbot so disagreeable?"
"It's a long story," continued Mrs. Snow, "and the most enduring topic of gossip in the countryside—or was some years ago. Everybody just takes Henry's orneriness for granted now. I remember when I was a good chunk of a girl Henry was a handsome young man, a fine young fellow, but high spirited and fast riding. He decided things were too slow for him around here so started out to see the world. Any evidence of the wanderlust infuriated Henry's father; he was determined Henry should stay right here. Well, they had an awful row about it and finally came to settling it with their fists. My, how the countryside buzzed with gossip of that fight. For all Henry was such a husky lad his Dad gave him a terrible thrashing. That settled all question of any of the Talbots ever going to the city, and I guess it's just as well. They've all prospered here, Henry most of all, for all his meanness."
"I don't think he has a mean face," defended Jane, "it's hard and strong, but not mean."
"Hard and strong, fiddlesticks," snorted Mrs. Snow, "it's stubbornness and temper."
JANE forgot Henry Talbot and the family feud in the busy days which followed, days of activity adjusting herself to her new work, getting acquainted with her pupils, establishing her daily routine. She had expected to hate teaching and the little outpost of civilization, but surprisingly enough, she didn't. The
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
people were friendly; the cheerful mothering of "Ma" Snow was a joy; her school was well equipped and the pupils eager and alert. None of the problems she had anticipated confronted her—but there was Jimmy.
Jimmy, son of John Talbot, was taking the eighth grade for the third time. Refusing to study, he naturally disturbed the morale of the school. He mystified Jane. She felt sure he was not a dolt, neither was he the typical bad boy. There was an occasional flash that promised alertness. Jane tried everything she could think of to interest him. She organized sports and contests, encouraged originality in creative effort, introduced simple woodwork and related manual arts. The rest of the school were delighted—Jimmy remained uninterested.
"There's something there," she insisted to herself, "if I could only find the key."
ONE day most unexpectedly she found it. She had stayed at the school house later than usual and as she walked home in the stillness of the late afternoon sunshine she heard faint music. It was hardly audible, but on impulse she left the road and climbed the dusty bank to the meeting house. Yes, someone was playing the organ—probably the organist practising next Sunday's hymns. The front door was locked so Jane went around to the back one and let herself in. The music had a plaintive beauty. Jane felt strangely moved and thrilled as she rounded the high-backed organ. A gasp of surprise warned the player of her presence.
"Why, Jimmy," she said, "I didn't know you could play!"
The boy made a stuttering sound as if trying to answer. If Jane's position had not penned him in behind the organ he would have darted away. As it was he was at bay, terrified, yet with a half-defiant look in his eyes.
"I'll tell you a secret, Jimmy, if you won't tell anyone," Jane hurried on. "I hoped to be a musician myself," she held out her scarred hand, "but I injured the ligaments and nerves in my fingers and will never be able to finger a violin again."
"Then you won't tell?" Jimmy was eagerly intent upon only one thing.
"Not a word to anybody. It will be our secret."
Jimmy breathed easier. "The kids would laugh at me," he said, but Jane knew that was not the real reason for concealment.
"Play some more," said Jane. She sat down on the organ bench with him, but Jimmy was still shy so she started talking about the keyboard and musical staff. Jimmy listened intently. Before she realized, she was giving a music lesson—she who had sworn in bitterness never to talk of music again. Jimmy played "by ear"; he had had no instruction. Thirstily he drank in Jane's explanations. With a start she realized that it was almost dark.
"We must go, but I'll help you again some time."
"When? Tomorrow, Miss Martin?" He seemed so eager.
"Yes, tomorrow, if you have your lessons," she agreed.
JIMMY'S conduct at school next day was above reproach. His lessons were prepared and some back work as well. Jane was delighted. After school she found him waiting for her at the organ and she gave him his second lesson—much more than a lesson, in fact. "We can't go so fast," she kept telling herself, but Jimmy seemed to assimilate everything instantly. Apparently he could go just as fast as she could teach him. Much he seemed to know. He had a sort of instinctive awareness that needed only suggestion to bring it out into conscious understanding.
At the end of a week Jane sent for her own music books and violin.
It seemed strange that such talent had received no recognition. Her promise of secrecy prevented a definite mention of it, but she attempted to sound out his father. She suggested a little music work as a possible new interest for her pupils. The trustee snorted, "If the pupils have time for frills you aren't working them hard enough—fundamentals, that's what we want."
"I thought perhaps some of them might have talent," she offered weakly, and was amazed at the savageness of the reply.
"If you catch some that think so, send 'em to me and I'll beat it out of them!"
"Why is your father so opposed to music?" she asked Jimmy later.
"It's a taint in our blood," said Jimmy in an awed voice.
"A taint?"
"Yes, you see my great grandfather was a fiddler and a wanderer, and he wasn't much good. We seldom mention him but all our bad traits are blamed on to him, the bad temper and all."
"There's no connection between musical talent and bad temper."
"Uncle Henry was wild when he was young. They think he inherited the wanderlust from Great Grandfather. If they knew I like music—!" Jimmy lacked words to measure the depth of that evil!
"Musical talent is nothing to be ashamed of, Jimmy. It's a wonderful gift."
Jimmy smiled ruefully. "Dad doesn't think so."
IN spite of their knowledge of John Talbot's attitude, the lessons went on and Jane's wonder grew daily. When the violin arrived Jimmy's face shone with eagerness. "Oh, gee!" he breathed with a sort of worshipful ecstasy as he held the instrument tenderly. "There was supposed to be a violin among Great Grandfather's junk. I used to dream of finding it, but of course it's destroyed. They say Uncle Henry smashed all of his stuff to tiny bits once when he was mad at Grandfather. How Uncle Henry would razz Pa if he knew I was studying music!"
"But Jimmy, it isn't right to deceive them."
"Well, what else can I do?"
What else indeed! And the matter stood there. Jimmy spent as much time as possible with the precious violin. Delighted that he was doing well in his studies the family asked no questions regarding his long hours at school. By the end of the winter Jane felt she had little more to offer him. He played her pieces better than she ever had, and improvised melodies that amazed her. Reverently Jane knew that she was feeding not the spark of talent but the glowing flame of genius.
When she learned that a great master was to visit a nearby city where she had to attend a school exhibit she took Jimmy with her. A meeting was arranged with the master. Jane never forgot that interview—the rugged, sharp-faced master; the boy, a rural young princeling facing him without timidity. He played the most difficult piece Jane had taught him and then started on a group of his own compositions. The master listened, then stopped him with the abrupt question, "Do you want to be a farmer?"
"Oh, no, sir," breathed Jimmy, "I want to play!"
"Then come to my studio in the spring," said the master, and Jimmy answered, "Yes, sir." It was settled as simply as that.
Out on the street Jane gasped, "Jimmy, do you realize he's the greatest teacher in America, in the world perhaps!" And later, "Jimmy, his studio is in New York! How will you get there?"
"That's my problem," said Jimmy.
A problem it was! John Talbot was enraged when he learned what Jane had done. He declared the place of the Talbots was right there and never would he tolerate a "cheap fiddling loafer" in his family. As a last desperate resort Jane and Jimmy went to Uncle Henry.
"If we can soft pedal the musician part," said Jane, "maybe some memory of his own revolt will make him sympathetic with your desire to leave home."
Uncle Henry, however, proved very disagreeable, especially when he learned that Jimmy's real desire was to be a musician.
"But he's a genius," pleaded Jane.
"If he's really a genius he won't need my help. He'll succeed in spite of all of us," said Uncle Henry.
Jane and Jimmy did not give up. "There's still the Stepper," said Jimmy, "I'll sell him."
The spring horse auction in Woodruff found Jane and Jimmy among the throng, but nobody bought the Stepper. "Uncle Henry is here," whispered Jimmy. "He's frightened off any buyers." It seemed true, for the long afternoon dragged by and no offers came for the Stepper. Just before sundown, however, some automobile tourists reached town and the Stepper was sold for the fabulous sum of $150.
"But it's not too much for the Stepper," Jimmy assured Jane. "Seems like selling a brother, but I couldn't take him with me to New York."
THE next day Jimmy left home. His father was furious and openly declared it would cost Jane her position. After two weeks of anxious waiting Jane received a letter. Jimmy was managing very well. Remembering the name of the warehouse company to whom the Snowville folk shipped wool, he had applied for and obtained a position as one of their night watchmen. "That means I'll have a little income and a place to stay where I can practice as much as I like," he wrote. Mornings he spent with his teacher. By the second letter his teacher had secured him work with a broadcasting orchestra. "The master is harsh and stern, but that's just his way," Jimmy told them. "Sometimes I please him and sometimes I don't, but always I work hard." Jane could read between the lines an adoration of the master and a growing bond between them.
In a month he had played at one of the master's recitals. "I must have pleased at least one person," Jimmy wrote exultantly, "for I have received a wonderful old Cremona from an anonymous donor, and my teacher thinks if I work hard enough he can get funds from the same source for some study abroad! As for the violin, it's like a part of me, Miss Jane. It seems to know the songs I dream of."
Justification! She had not been mistaken. Jimmy was a genius. He would find help, recognition, from now on. She had had a part in giving him to the world. She thought, "What do I care if the school board is meeting this very day to decide not to reemploy me? That flash of revelation I've helped to give to the world an artist."
To share the good news, and to be less conspicuous while the school trustees were in session, Jane rode out to Talbot's to talk with Jimmy's mother about it. Then still excited and loath to return home, she rode on toward the foothills. When she came to Henry Talbot's prosperous ranch she couldn't resist the impulse to turn in and tell him of Jimmy's great progress—"to gloat a bit," she told herself.
Uncle Henry listened with apparent interest but made no comment. "It proves that he did the right thing by going," Jane concluded. "He's a born musician and never would have made a good farmer."
Explosively, Uncle Henry dropped the repression of years, his voice vibrant with emotion, "Oh, yes he would. He would have made a good farmer eating his heart out trying to make melodies of pastures and symphonies of plow-furrows!" For once his determined chin was overshadowed by the eloquence of sparkling eyes. Jane saw with a shock that the gnarled, clenched hands were long and sensitively delicate. She was almost stunned before she understood it all, Jimmy's position in the warehouse, the intimation of opportunity to study in Europe, the old Cremona which sang so readily.
"Uncle Henry!" she said to herself, "and all these years no one ever knew."
THE store was agog with chatter and excitement when Jane returned. Mrs. Snow was bubbling over with news. "You've got your contract for next year, with a raise in salary."
"What!" gasped Jane weakly. There were too many surprises for one afternoon.
"Yes, indeed," exulted Mrs. Snow. "Of course, all the patrons wanted you back but John Talbot never would have let the board hire you, but bless my soul if Uncle Henry Talbot didn't come to Trustee's meeting, first time in thirteen years. Talk about a wild meeting! They say he out-roared John Talbot, thumped on the table, shook his fist in John's face, and simply brow-beat the rest of the board into out-voting John!
"You're the only person in history who ever got a good turn from Henry Talbot!" she ran on happily, "and I guess the only reason he helped you was because it gave him a chance to plague John."
"Oh, no," Jane started a defense, but she realized that they would never understand—he would not want them to. She didn't even tell them that she had just seen the Stepper contentedly munching alfalfa hay in Uncle Henry's corral.