9 World Parliament of Women By Amy Brown Lyman HE Golden Jubilee Conference. Of the International Council of Women was held in Edinburgh, Scotland, July 11-22, 1938. Scotland was chosen for the meeting place in honor of Lady Aberdeen, that noble Scotswoman who has served the Council as president thirty-six years out of the fifty years of its existence. Fifty years ago, March 1888, the International Council was organized in Washington, D. C., having been initiated by a group of farseeing American women led by Susan B. Anthony and May Wright Sewell. The first president was Frances E. Willard who was succeeded in 1893 by Lady Aberdeen. May Wright Sewell served as president from 1899 to 1904, and Mme. Chaponniere-Chaix from 1920 to 1922. Two years ago, in 1936, Baroness Boel was elected president pees the resignation of Lady Abereen. F. DINBURGH is one of the beauty spots of Europe, and a city of great historic interest. Robert Louis Stevenson, one of her noted sons, did not exaggerate her beauty when he wrote so enthusiastically of her from far away Samoa, where he passed his last days. The gorgeous old castle located on the heights above green rolling hills is a most imposing sight by day and is a dream of loveliness when floodlighted at night. It was from her bedroom window in the castle that the ill-fated Mary, Queen of Scots, lowered her few-days-old infant son, afterward James VI of Scotland and James I of England, in a basket, 200 feet below to her brother to be taken to Sterling Castle to be baptized into the Catholic Church—all unbeknown to the Scotch Protestants. A one mile road —the king's highway—leads from the castle down the valley to Holyrood House, the old royal palace, which is still used as such. The Scottish National War Memorial located near the castle is considered the finest war memorial in the world today. The Scots are genial, friendly and warm hearted. They are most courteous to strangers and did everything within their power for the comfort and convenience of their guests. HERE were in attendance at the conference 900 delegates from thirty-one countries. The United States delegation consisted of ten voting delegates including Sisters Amy Brown Lyman and Zina C. Brown of Salt Lake City, who were residing in London at the time, and ten alternates including Sister Evelyn Wood, also of Salt Lake City, now residing in Frankfurt, who did not find it convenient to attend. Sisters Lyman and Brown also represented 578 two church organizations, Relief Society and Y. W. M. I. A. For the first time since the Austrian women joined the Council many years ago, they were not represented, their Council having been dissolved when Austria was annexed to Germany. The German Council has also been dissolved. The great hall where the meetings were held was decorated with the flags of all the nations represented, and with palms and other potted plants. The meetings consisted of committee meetings, several sessions each for the sixteen committees; business sessions for the council proper, where committee reports were given and resolutions considered and adopted, to be carried back to local communities for action; general sessions for the public including a testimonial for Lady Aberdeen. There were luncheon and dinner meetings, semisocial in character, and purely social functions. At the formal opening session the president, Baroness Pol Boel, began her address with these words: "Women must be ready to defend what they have already achieved, consolidate their gains, and plan for new victories. She called attention to the fact that for fifty years the women of many nations had been united in efforts to promote the welfare of mankind, of the family, and of individuals, under the International Council, and that while in the East in recent years the women's movement has been increasing in strength, women in some of the western countries appear to be losing ground—in some countries they have very definitely lost ground." THE subject which received most attention throughout the convention was peace. With the war clouds hanging over Europe this subject RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE was uppermost in the minds of all delegates. There was probably not a single session where it did not come up in one connection or another. At the opening meeting there was a plea for peace in the various speeches. The president urged that women everywhere rally round all international organizations working in this interest. She felt that the principle of arbitration, for which the Council has always stood, is becoming more and more firmly established although, "the form it should take and the method of its application is not yet clearly defined and is still open to discussion." At the last session there was expressed, in no uncertain terms, whole-hearted opposition to all war, and horror at modern methods of warfare of 'turning the heavens into hell. There seemed to be a firm belief and faith that through proper international collaboration there could be a peaceful solution to the problems and difficulties of the present hour. Realizing that wars are often due to economic causes, the women were urged to promote economic education, and to make an effort to obtain economic justice between nations. They were urged also not to lose their vision and courage but to exert their individual and collective influence in behalf of forces which make for peace, justice, and harmony among nations. A resolution to this -effect was unanimously adopted. Dame Elizabeth Cadbury, a veteran in the Council, and for a quarter of a century chairman of the committee on peace and arbitration, in seconding the resolution said that in the past we have kept religion out of our meetings but today we certainly need God and should not hesitate to speak of Him. There are surely some points on which we can all agree. All good WORLD PARLIAMENT OF WOMEN thoughts and all good aspirations must come from the divinity which we worship in different names and different ways. She desired, she said, to send out a trumpet call to those who have faith that there is a God to whom we can appeal, and to say, "Let us appeal to Him and pray for His help and blessing." She felt that it is only in the spiritual word that we can hope once again to bring peace and good will to the world. Among other subjects of vital importance which were discussed in detail in the committees and considered in condensed form in the main meetings were health and nutrition which took second place only to peace, child welfare, housing, education, equal moral standards, broadcasting, cinema. THE testimonial meeting to Lady Aberdeen which was one of the features of the convention was both touching and thrilling. At her advanced age, clothed in white, she received gracefully and appreciatively the plaudits of her fellow-workers whose footsteps she had guided so satisfactorly for thirty-six years. Tributes were paid to her by her fellow-officers, some of them of many years standing, by representatives of all of the national councils and by fraternal delegates. Because of her long and notable presidency, the speakers paid tribute to the council through her. It was brought out that while honoring Lady Aberdeen they were also honoring the memory of those noble women who originated the council fifty years ago. As they came to the platform they showered her with gifts, until the large table was heaped high with them. There were embroidered table linens from Poland, Czechoslovakia, and Latvia; statuary from Italy; lovely glass pieces, scarfs, 579 books and a red poncho or serape made by the Indians of Argentina. Dame Ogilvie Gordon, First VicePresident of the Council, announced the raising of the Jubilee Fund to be known as the Lady Aberdeen Fund, and to be used for the work of the Council. The fund, amounting to 3,000 Pounds or $15,000, was received by Lady Aberdeen in behalf of the Council. THE social features of the conference included excursions, unique entertainments, receptions, and private parties. The most important were the civic reception by the Lord Provost, the royal garden party and the farewell banquet. The weather was ideal for the official garden party, given on the broad lawns at Holyrood Palace by "gracious permission of His Majesty the King, to meet Her Royal Highness the Duchess of Kent." The guests, 2,000 in number, were received by the Secretary of State of Scotland on behalf of the Government and later they were formed in their various national groups to await the appearance of the beautiful and charming Duchess of Kent, who had come from London for the occasion. The Duchess wore a gown of heavy mauve georgette and a crinoline straw hat of the same color trimmed with three ostrich feathers in varying shades curled over the tilted brim. She was attended by a body guard of the High Constables of the Palace in blue uniforms and tall, black cockaded hats. As she moved across the spacious lawn the leader of each delegation was presented to her. Delicious refreshments were served to the guests from gaily colored, attractive marquees, after which they had the privilege of inspecting the historic rooms of the palace under the direction of official guides. 580 On the green sloping hillside back of the palace were grouped hundreds of people who had a full view of everything within the grounds and who formed an attractive picture which was in full view of the palace guests. The whole scene was most colorful and interesting. One of the outstanding values of an international conference, probably one of the most valuable aspects, lies in the contacts that one makes with women of other lands, women of other and different experiences, but with whom after all is shared a fundamental common purpose. T the election of officers Baroness Boel was again elected president. Dame Maria Ogilvie Gordon who for years has been the first vice president and who has been either a convener or officer in the council for thirty-four years was elected an honorary vice president. Mrs. Betzy Kjelsberg, another veteran, was made an honorary vice president. American women reelected were Lena Madesin Phillips, eighth vice president; Helen Havenor, vice convener of the Cinema committee; Dr. Louise Ball, viceconvener of Press. Members of our Latter-day Saint groups will be pleased to know more of Baroness Boel. She is first of all a devoted mother and grandmother— mother of four children and grandmother of ten. She is a woman of rare native ability and outstanding attainments. She is large in stature, being six feet tall, powerful of intellect and tender and understanding of heart. She speaks all three of the official languages of the Council —English, French and German. She RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is president of the National Council of Women of Belgium, and wife of the vice president of the Belgian Parliament. During the war she performed a very distinct though dangerous service to her country. In 1915 it came to her knowledge that a great wrong was being done the people of her country through the stoppage of all means of communication between those who remained in Belgium and those who were scattered behind the German lines. Naturally this was not her personal affair and she had her children to think of. She risked not only her freedom, but her life when she set out to organize a secret post by which she might send letters of her people out through the enemy lines, and receive others back safely. She made herself responsible for the scheme, directing it entirely alone, and daring alone the consequences. Something like 200,000 letters passed successfully, and then the plot was discovered. She was seized and tried, as trials went in the war. She was committed to a German prison, and to the hard labor of an ordinary criminal, which was the regular treatment of a political prisoner. In the cell next to hers was a murderess, by whose side she did hard labor. She finally pleaded her own case so eloquently that she was released. It is no wonder the Baroness feels as she does about war, which she declares is the most horrible thing on earth to those who pass through it. Not horrible only because men and women and children are torn apart and murdered, but horrible because it destroys, utterly and hopelessly, all that is most sacred to man. "Whose Damsel Is This? By Harrison R. Merrill AND behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem, and said unto the reapers, 'The Lord be with you.' " "And they answered him, ‘The Lord Bless thee.' " "Then said Boaz to the servant who was set over the reapers, 'Whose damsel is this?' " In the land of Mexico one may see many Ruths. They may not be gleaning in the fields, but they are almost sure to be doing something. The women of the Land of Manana are an industrious and ever active lot. They may be carrying water, washing in the streams, harvesting in the fields, or peddling laces or baskets, but they are certain to be busy. Many a time while passing through the rural waysides of Mexico, I thought of Wordsworth and Burns, Whittier and Riley. There were "Solitary Reapers" and "Highland Marys," and "Maud Mullers" in many places. Many of the women of Mexico, indeed all that I saw in the back country, are unaffected by modernity. They are as simple and natural as a flower or a tree. Were self-conscious about their appearance, they conceal it as well as did Maud Muller when the Judge stopped to quaff that historic cup of water that led to all of those sighings about what might have been. I never see the famous painting, "The Song of the Lark," without thinking of Wordsworth's charming little ode to rustic beauty which he named the "Solitary Reaper." "Behold her single in the field, Yon solitary highland lass! Reaping and singing by herself; Stop here, or gently pass! If they ever. Alone she cuts and binds the grain, And sings a melancholy strain; O listen! For the Vale profound Is overflowing with the sound. "A voice so thrilling ne'er was heard In spring-time from the Cuckoo-bird, Breaking the silence of the seas Among the fartherest Hebrides..... "Whate'er the theme, the Maiden sang As if her song would have no ending; I saw her singing at her work, And o'er the sickle bending;— I listened, motionless and still And, as I mounted up the hill The music in my heart I bore, Long after it was heard no more." HAD almost Wordsworth's exact experience upon my recent visit to Cuernavaca, the beautiful rainyweather capital of the republic of Mexico. We were on our way out of the city to see the waterfalls of San Antone when we passed a tiny cemetery near a stream. We stopped and I was out looking for a view to photograph when I heard voices. I looked around and there I saw a scene that has been repeated millions of times in the old, old history of old, old Mexico. A group of women. Were merrily chatting in Spanish or Indian as they bent over their washing. They were not sc distant but that I was able to distinguish their features as they laughed and talked. To me, one of the women had an open, friendly face that was decidedly attractive. By motions I asked if I might take a photograph. 'They nodded their assent and resumed their work in perfect self-possession not even bothering to step out of the stream of water. I was sorry I could not speak their language and they mine, for certainly I felt that we could have visited most pleasantly. 582 While we were talking in a sort of sign language, another girl—a young bride, I presume,—came down to the same stream and proceeded to wash her breakfast dishes. In the meantime our chauffeur, guide, and interpreter came up, having stopped his car, and spoke to the women. I told him to ask them if they would mind if I should take another close-up picture of them. "Not at all,' he answered after speaking to them in Spanish. "Take as many as you like, but they do say they would like to see the pictures when they are finished." WASH day seems to be a most pleasant occasion for Mexican women, despite the hard work. They make of it a social occasion. Having lived long years in a more or less tribal or communal state, often they have a public laundry where all may go to do their clothes as they lean over their stone washboards. On the day we were in Taxco, I was taken by two small boy-guides up a narrow, winding, cobble-paved street to the church of Guadalupe. On our way we passed Taxco's community laundry. There, too, I paused to take a photograph without a protest. The women paid me not the slightest attention, but went about their rubbing and their visiting as if I did not exist. The Taxco public laundry is a perfect dream. There were the green, lacy trees only partially veiling the lovely sky. Below was the pool reflecting trees and sky and the red of the tiled roof as well as the color in the costumes of the women. Taxco is proud of its laundry and sells post-card photographs of it by the thousands. These public laundries are found in all parts of the republic. In the outskirts of Mexico City, on our first day's excursion, we came upon RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a large one at which fifty or a hundred or more women could wash at once. All are much alike—there is the pool of water surrounded by the stone tubs and washboards. These washboards are in pairs enabling the women to face each other as they work. Often no doubt mother and daughter occupy these boards and get through the family washing twice as fast as one could do. Upon our journey out of Mexico, we were able often to look out of the car windows and see washer-women busy laundering clothes in rain-puddles, while Emanual and Esperanza enjoyed themselves wading in them. Mexicans seem to enjoy water and are often found bathing or washing something. They seem to mind the downpours which they call rains not at all. With a wide hat and poncho they can be perfectly comfortable— they never look too happy—in any kind of weather. Running streams are often used as dish-pans. Mexican furniture in the poorer homes is limited, indeed. The stove is often a mere table covered with clay upon which the charcoxl glows. Few utensils of any kind are found in such homes. Except for a bit of pottery and the simplest kinds of tableware, the dining room is bare. Few Mexican houses or Jacals (pronounced Ha-cals) have any chimneys. What little smoke there is is all allowed to escape around the eaves and through the cracks. As I have said before, there is many a Ruth in the fields of Mexico. Since good water is scarce in many of the villages, she is often discovered carrying water on her shoulder as her sister on the hills of Palestine used to do. She carries herself as well as her utensils, gracefully, especially when she is young. Some of the older women are like beasts of burden under their heavy "WHOSE DAMSEL IS THIS" loads on shoulders or heads, but they do not seem to mind. They are a pleasant, friendly pecple and smile under their loads as if they were ncthing. Near the beautiful falls of San Antone we found a Jacal in which there were pots of various kinds for sale. One of the attendants was a young lady with a serious expression, but with friendly though inquisitive eyes. I told her, through the interpreter, that I could not take a pot home with me because the distance was so great, but that I would give her the price of a small one, if she would take one on her shoulder and pose for a photograph. She consented. I wish the colors could be reproduced on this page, for then would be revealed more vividly her simple grace. Her dress was a bright yellow, the piece of pottery a sort of old rose, and the flowers near by were rare. "Whose damsel is this' who washes by the streams and carries her burdens bravely on the hills of Old Mexico? Wouldn't we like to know! Ever since Columbus came and found these girls here and told the 583 world about them, men have been asking the question asked by Boaz. Of course, we Latter-day Saints answer unhesitatingly who she may be, but even we are eagerly looking forward to the day when there will be discovered a key to the ages-old history. Upon my return from Old Mexico in 1935, I often said that I saw few beautiful or interesting women in Mexico; upon my return a few weeks ago, I was compelled to say that I saw many. I, along with scores of artists through the years, have attempted to picture Ruth as she must have looked to that young field-owner, Boaz, upon his return from Bethlehem. She must have been striking in her simple charm to cause him to take such note of her. As beautiful as she may have been, there are damsels as lovely in Old Mexico, but from the point of view of history, they are an orphan people, A ruthless culture swept over their own, uprooting it and blotting it out until today it is more natural to ask about a Mexican-Indian woman, more than of any other in the world,