If you favor a particular kind of gourd for a particular use, and wish to enjoy the pleasure of cultivating the gourd yourself, your hobby begins not in the lull of autumn days, but as soon as the danger of frost has disappeared in the springtime. Gourds grow best in warm, temperate or tropical regions, but they can be cultivated in the cooler zones. They require warm, fertile soil and plenty of sunshine, also plenty of room in which to ramble, for ramble they will to great lengths. They can be started in pots indoors and later placed where desired. This is an especially good plan if you live where seasons are short. They require a long season to reach full maturity, as the first frost kills them.
There are numerous kinds, but the Lagenaria gourds are the most commonly used for containers and ornaments. They grow in the most fantastic shapes and are often quite large. Many of the small gourds, and even the warty ones, make beautiful ornaments for a table centerpiece. Odd dishes for candy, nuts and handy little trays can be carved from them while shells are green. Because the Lagenaria gourds are large and better shaped for utility vessels, they have been given names suggestive of them, such as: dipper, bottle, spoon, powder horn, African pipe, siphon, and so on.
One of the most common uses for them today is for bird houses. They add a quaint picturesqueness hanging in your garden. The little doorways should be cut while the gourd shell is still green as it is easier done then and in no way harms the shell. If anything the drying is hastened when the air is allowed to penetrate the inside. The seeds and fibrous substance are removed. The outside of the shell can be painted, or merely cleaned and polished with wax. But even this does not have to be done, as a gourd birdhouse is decorative enough in itself.
For interior ornaments the gourds are often varnished. Sometimes, little desert scenes are sketched on them. If you have a patio or a sunporch where you enjoy using bright colors in furniture and pottery, gourds are most appropriate. They can be used for water bottles and quaint vases
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
or flower bowls. Strings of the smaller ones in varied shapes, highly polished, lend an atmosphere of Mexico, and give a queer tinkling sound when the wind moves them. New and novel uses for gourds about the home will be discovered as one experiments with them.
The very small ones thoroughly dried make excellent and safe rattles for the baby. The outside need be only thoroughly cleaned before given into his chubby hands. The dry seeds within, falling against the shell, create an amusing rattle. These rattles were at one time part of a medicine man's equipment to frighten off the devils of disease.
The secret of long life for any gourd is to have it thoroughly dried and hard before usage begins. It may be cut and shaped while still green, but not used. Painting, waxing, or varnishing the outside also gives a protective coat against wear.
If you become a gourd hobbyist you will want to cultivate them yourself. Most of the fun of having them about is in the cultivating. No one can predict just what shape a gourd will be until it is fully matured, and there are always delightful surprises hidden among the vines. To plant the seed, to watch the vines grow and bloom, to anticipate the fantastic shapes and uses of the fruit, and then to actually fashion them for use about the home, is to experience the full joy of creation.
Aunt Heartha
By Minnie I. Hodapp
WHITE winter had come overnight to Riverbend, transforming the scattered village into a landscape of sky and snow. All the wayside hedges were arrayed in dainty plumage. Even the brown farmhouse at the curve of the highway seemed taller in its cap of downy softness. The house was surrounded by an orchard in immaculate robing. Fairy arches led from the gate to the front door.
Soon a glossy blue roadster halted by the gate. Through the car window a pair of lovers—an engaged couple—were peering toward the brown house and conjecturing upon it as their possible home.
"Nice place," whispered Christy, her eyes beaming with gladness.
"Yours and mine," answered Hap. "My heritage from Grandmother Worth. Do you see that lilac tree by the corner of the porch? Grandma Worth planted it years and years ago."
Christy was perfectly aware that she couldn't match Hap's worldly possessions, but in accord with Aunt Heartha's guidance, she had gradually acquired a chest of durable household goods including table linen, sheets, pillow cases—even a couple of fluffy satin quilts—the workmanship of her own hands. Long ago she had resolved that Aunt Heartha's many little sacrifices for her chest of pretty things should not go unrewarded. Christy meant to take the dear soul into her future home—not as a housekeeper or caretaker—but as the beloved and loving angel of the hearth. Often had she mused and reflected upon this possibility until it had come to seem natural and plausible. She told herself that if Hap should leave Aunt Heartha out of their mutual plans, Christy herself would soon manage to fade out of the picture, too. Her method would be self-effacing and quiet and void of bitterness or acrimony. This was a foregone conclusion. She recalled it now as she gazed upon Hap's hospitable house this snow-clad winter morning.
"Look, Christy," said Hap, "that rambler along the front porch will be a bower of roses next June. And you know what this coming June means to you and me."
At this the little house seemed to beckon.
"It's a charming place," said Christy. "Shall we look inside?"
"That's just what we've driven out here for, Darling," and his arm went round her in an endearing embrace.
Hap helped Christy out of the car and his gentleness expressed more than words how very precious she was to him. Christy skipped blithely up the long path a few steps ahead of Hap. He walked steadily erect carrying Christy's very heavy case of art equipment, including brushes and color boxes and sheets of paper.
Christy paused by the porch and glanced up into Hap's face. His features were suffused with joy and pride as he stepped up and unlocked the door, flinging it wide. A wave of warm air like a summer breeze enveloped them.
"You've set up a new stoker, Hap! And I dare say you did it for this visit," beamed Christy.
"I want you to feel comfortable while you're looking through the place."
The spacious east window had a wide, long, roomy sill. Christy at once envisioned a window of geraniums with Aunt Heartha coaxing them into bud and bloom. Hap, meanwhile, was thinking only of Christy. His Christy! She glanced up at him with an ingratiating smile.
"I had no idea you had so thoroughly remodeled," said she.
Hap opened an adjoining door. "This room is rather small," said he, "but will be convenient for an occasional guest."
Christy's face was radiant and sunny as she stepped inside the cozy little sanctum. Inaudibly her heart exclaimed, "Heartha's own little room!"
Closing the door, Hap remarked, "This is an old-fashioned stairway with worn steps, Christy, but none of them creak."
Hap grasped her outstretched hand and slowly led her up the narrow passage. With the opening of the loft door came a blue-bending arch of sky.
"A roof garden!" exclaimed Christy. "Whoever would have dreamed of such a luxury!"
Turning to Hap she whispered, "Dearest, you did this all for me!"
He smiled a slow, meditative smile and gave answer: "To tell you the fact, Christy, I've stayed awake nights thinking this out—a place for you to steal away by yourself to sketch the summer landscape. Here you'll be at liberty to apply yourself to your beloved art unmolested."
Christy's eyes were resting on the fields of snow, and beyond the willow-lined creek and little groups of young oak trees. She seemed dumb with happiness and surprise.
"In early spring," continued Hap, "when the green begins to creep back into the trees and the spaces between show the bonny blue sky"—
A LOUD, clamorous knock at the front door called them below at once.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
A hearty old Scotchman stood on the front porch. He was smiting his mittened hands together and stamping the snow from his overshoes. His cheeks were ruddy and his breath came like white vapor.
"It appears to me the homestead's come alive this mornin'—smoke curlin' from the chimney. Are you young folk movin' in?"
"Not today. Won't you take this rocker, Uncle Alec?"
"Don't want to sit down. I'd rather go below and have a good long look at your stoker. I might watch it half an hour, if you don't mind."
"Go right ahead, Uncle Alec," said Hap as he turned good-naturedly back to his conversation with Christy.
"Maybe you'll want a fireplace in this room. Sort of friendly, wouldn't it be, having a fireplace?"
Christy could see dear old Heartha in the glow of a cheery yule log and her heart exulted at the picture. Deftly she hid it from Hap, who suddenly burst out:
"Your presence here seems to brighten the very air, Christy and just think, this home is ours alone—yours and mine. Sometimes it seems as if this whole, big world holds but you and me."
Christy who ordinarily would have responded to these warm, glowing words, seemed actually to shiver. Hap perceived it.
"You aren't cold dear. What's the matter?" he asked with a penetrating look as if trying to probe her inner conscience.
"I've changed my mind, Hap. That's all. This house isn't for me."
Hap drew his lips into a thin, straight line. "What's wrong with you, Christy?"
Her voice lowered to a whisper. "I can't go on."
Hap eyed her closely.