NOTES FROM THE FIELD Central States Mission AN account of an entertainment held in the Kansas City Branch of the Central States Mission is an excellent indication ot the extent of Anniversary Day celebrations. The sisters of the Kansas City Relief Society Branch acted as hostesses to the sisters of the Independence Branch. A one-act play entitled "An Interesting Shut-In" was successfully presented and luncheon followed. There were fifty-two members in attendance at this gathering. Tahitian Mission UPON her return from the Tahitian Mission Sister Maude Woodbury submitted the following tribute: "Would I had the privilege to transport my sisters in Zion for just a short while to the beautiful Isle of Tahiti where I have been favored to labor for eleven short months among the reverent mothers of the dark race. "They love the missionary boys, the earnest sons of the white women, sent to preach the Gospel to them. Willingly do they deprive themselves of the finest foods to give to their visitors who are not accustomed to the native foods. They scrub and bathe the entire family that they may enter the house of the Lord clean in body. The pealing of the bell one-half hour before service often finds them gathered in groups on the steps or in the hall with hats reverently removed waiting to enter the church. There is no disturbance of talking or loud laughter, but great reverence for the house dedicated to our Savior for true worship. As the hymn is announced, rapt attention fellows as it is softly played. At a given signal the song bursts 621 forth in full harmony. The sonorous voices of these Saints fill the chapel, as praises from a worshipful gathering ascend to the Father in sweet cadence. "They have their beloved Bible and their revered Book of Mormon. What finer gems do they need out of which to learn the truths of the Gospel.
"Your sons should return home stabilized, thankful that the Lord called them to labor in a land of dazzling sunshine, of indescribable beauty of nature, among a self-sacrificing, warm-hearted people."
Southern States Mission
SISTER Ann Clayson, President of the Southern States Mission Relief Societies, gives a most interesting report of the activity of Relief Society in the mission. Particular attention has been given to diet and instruction in cooking and in preparation of green vegetables. Excellent food charts have been obtained from the Child Welfare League of America, also helpful information from the Consumers' Problems. Sister Clayson also obtained circulars on correct diet and food preparation from the State Department of Georgia.
The following picture is of the Augusta Branch during a supper. The following is a quotation from a letter and is indicative of what is being accomplished: "We enjoyed our cooking lessons and appreciated the invitation. We met at the home of one of our members and cooked our dinner. We were surprised to learn how delicious vegetables can be when prepared in the manner you have indicated. The vegetable dinner proved to be a real banquet and everyone enjoyed it immensely. There were twenty-five persons present. Everyone approves of the steps we are taking in this direction."
From the Columbia Branch in the South Carolina District another fine report comes. On the evening of March 17 in the Columbia Branch church the sisters gathered in the amusement hall where a fine demonstration of home cooking was given. The county cooking agent was present in response to an invitation from the local officers. After the demonstration was over games were enjoyed by the sisters and their hus-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
bands. This was followed by serving of natural foods prepared solely by the Relief Society sisters. The demonstration was to show that a meal can be prepared with natural foods and very little fat. The demonstrator said that if every woman would plant at least a row or two of leafy vegetables using their waste spaces for planting, there would be very little suffering during a depression. She encouraged the sisters to plant just as many vegetables as they possibly could. On the whole, both the planting of vegetables and their use and proper cooking has been a very worthy project throughout the entire mission.
Northwestern States Mission
FROM Sister Ann Nibley, President of the Northwestern States Mission Relief Society, comes the following: "The Relief Society work in the Northwestern States Mission has made rapid progress. During 1937 the mission was divided into seven districts as follows: Portland, Seat-
AUGUSTA BRANCH, SOUTHERN STATES MISSION
tle, Yakima, Spokane, Great Falls, Missoula, and Butte. In each of these districts a Church organization similar to a stake organization was perfected and in each of the districts a Relief Society Board was organized.
"These boards have labored diligently to build up the branch organizations under their supervision. They have tended to unify the various societies and to standardize the work, and a new impetus has been given Relief Society work in the
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
mission. The enrollment has increased and seventeen new societies have been established, making in all fifty-seven organizations, with a membership of 1,307.
"On Sunday, June 26, the Portland District was organized into a Stake by President David O. McKay and Elder Melvin J. Ballard. Sister Birdie Bean, President of the Relief Society Board in the Portland District was retained with her entire board in the new Stake."
Sunday, July 31, the Seattle District was organized into a Stake by President Heber J. Grant and Elder Melvin J. Ballard. Sister May W. Milligan was chosen to preside over the Relief Society in this Stake. These sisters have been very efficient in their work and we congratulate these new stake presidencies. The work of sister Ann Parkinson Nibley as Relief Society Mission President is deserving of commendation. Working constantly for the advancement of this organization she has proven herself a woman of vision and understanding. We extend our best wishes to her in the work she is doing in the mission and also to these new Stake Boards as they assume their duties, feeling certain that the work will be carried forward with honor and credit.
THEOLOGY REFERENCE BOOKS
THE list of reference books published at the beginning of each Theology lesson recognizes the sources drawn upon in the preparation of the lesson. It is not required that all books be purchased by the stakes or wards. The essential truths for the development of the spiritual messages of the lessons are contained in the Magazine and in our Church books. However, if class leaders have access to the references through libraries or seminaries, they will find them of value. Reading the context throws light upon the meaning of the quotations used. Any of these books would make a valuable addition to Relief Society libraries. If restricted to the purchase of but one book, "THE TRAINING OF THE TWELVE," by A. B. Bruce ($1.00) is recommended. This book is of special value to class leaders and could be read with profit by Relief Society members.
 
KATE M. BARKER - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Second Counselor
JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Jennie B. Knight Ida P. Beal Nettie D. Bradford
Emma A. Empey Annie Wells Cannon Marcia K. Howells
Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Emeline Y. Nebeker
Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C. Irvine Janet M. Thompson
Belle S. Spafford
Donna Durrant Sorensen
Vivian R. McConkie
Leda T. Jengen
Beatrice F. Stevens
Rae B. Barker
Nellie O. Parker
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Manager: Louise Y. Robison
Assistant Manager Belle S. Spafford


VOL. XXV SEPTEMBER, 1938 No. 9
Editorials
Living Standards
EVERY individual has a criteria which he sets up for himself as the satisfactory mode of living?his living standards. Many influences play upon the individual and have voice in the determination of standards. Early life patterns, education, financial status, social contacts, religion, all are of moment in establishing the grade or level of excellence or advancement which the individual finds right or fitting. When standards are high we have a superior and most desirable individual while we find inferiority to the degree that standards become lax.
Often during periods of industrial depression, of war, of epidemic, or other abnormal pressure, standards that have been established laboriously are not only battered down by the stress of the time but remain down long after the occasion has passed. This is owing in part to the tendency to carry over into ordinary times, habits created by the emergent period. Not only should those things which elevate standards be cultivated but constant caution must be exercised lest a slow but general lowering of standards occur.
Individual and community life are so inter-dependent that we find individual standards affecting community life, while on the other hand, community standards have a direct influence upon individuals. When inclined to be lax or when once started downward standards lower with marked rapidity whereas their lifting is a slow and tedious process. Community standards are best lifted through elevating those of the individual. One or two leaders upholding high standards of thrift, industry, sanitation, cultural pursuits, etc., may elevate an entire group.
To grow to the "measure of the
EDITORIALS
stature of the fullness of Christ" is the possibility of mankind. In order that man might attain this measure of perfection the Gospel plan has been restored in its fullness. Our leaders from the beginning have interpreted the Gospel for us in terms of everyday behavior, making clear those standards by which we should order our lives. Acceptance of the Gospel should be reflected in the superior living standards of every Latter-day Saint. The Latter-day Saint should be honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, doing good to all mankind. He should be thrifty, industrious; his home should be clean and attractive; his surroundings inviting; his tastes cultured. To the degree that he fails in these things he fails as a Latter-day Saint.
The Latter-day Saint community should be a model community. Health, sanitation, beautification, educational and recreational activities, all should impress with their superiority. Latter-day Saint standards are recognized and respected throughout the world because they embody those virtues which make for the highest type of individual and community life.
The Lord has said, "Where much is given much is expected." This is true?the world rightly expects much of the Latter-day Saints. We are living in an age when through easy means of transportation and communication men are very close to one another. This is an age when men are more or less open minded, seeking after those things which contribute to satisfying living. Observing the fruits of the Gospel in men and women of high standards, in communities clean, wholesome, attractive and law abiding, they may well pause and say, Let us seek after these things.
New Stakes Organized
LATTER-DAY SAINTS have cause to rejoice in the growth and strength of the Church. Two new stakes have recently been created in sections of the territory formerly presided over by President Preston Nibley of the Northwestern States Mission.
Under the direction of President David O. McKay and Elder Melvin J. Ballard of the Council of the Twelve, the Portland Stake of Portland, Oregon, was organized June 26, 1938, with Elder M. L. Bean as Stake President. The Seattle Stake of Seattle, Washington, was organized Sunday, July 31, by President Heber J. Grant and Elder Melvin J. Ballard, with Alexander Brown as Stake President.
The Relief Society in this territory has been presided over by Sister Ann Parkinson Nibley as Relief Society Mission President. The women whom she has directed are well fitted to assume positions of leadership in the newly created stakes. Sister Birdie L. Bean has been chosen as President of the Portland Stake, and Sister May W. Milligan, President of the Seattle Stake.
The General Board extend to these new stakes their best wishes. Confident that the Relief Society organization will continue to grow in this section we extend our sincere cooperation to  
WORD has been received of the early return of Sister Amy Brown Lyman, First Counselor in the Relief Society General Presidency. Sister Lyman has for the past two years presided over the Relief Society organizations of the European Mission. Her work in the Mission has been characterized by thoroughness and efficiency. The benefits of her many years of experience in Relief Society have been extended to our Latter-day Saint sisters in these far-away countries and have added to the strength of the Relief Society organizations. We are happy to welcome Sister Lyman home.
Harrison R. Merrill
THE untimely death of Professor Harrison R. Merrill came as a shock to a host of friends and admirers. Enjoying a wide range of acquaintance through his many activities and versatile talents his passing is profoundly regretted. His remarkable abilities, his friendly personality, his generosity in sharing without reservation have made him of inestimable value to the many worthy causes with which he has been associated. A devoted Latter-day Saint, Professor Merrill interpreted his religion as a "way of life." Reveling in the goodness and the beauty of the world about him he imbued others with a love of life.
A poem composed by Brother Merrill and published in the August, 1928 Relief Society Magazine expresses his philosophy:
LET THIS BE HEAVEN
Oh, God, let this be heaven?
I do not ask for golden streets,
Or long for jasper walls,
Nor do I sigh for pearly shores
Where twilight never falls;
Just leave me here beside these peaks,
In this rough western land,
I love this dear old world of Thine?
Oh, God, you understand.
Dear God, let this be heaven?
I do not crave white, stainless robes,
I'll keep these marked by toil;
Instead of straight and narrow walks
I love trails soft with soil;
I have been healed by crystal streams,
But these from snow-crowned peaks
Where dawn burns incense to the day
And paints the sky in streaks.
Dear God, let this be heaven?
I do not ask for angel wings,
Just leave that old peak there
And let me climb 'til comes the night?
I want no golden stair.
Then, when I say my last adieu
And all farewells are given
Just leave my spirit here somewhere?
Oh, God, let this be heaven.
Richly endowed with native ability Brother Merrill trained and cultivated his native endowments, then spent them lavishly for the good of mankind. The Relief Society has immeasurably benefited. His contributions to the Relief Society Magazine, to Conference programs, his counsel in planning Literary courses of study, the excellent Literary lessons which he has written as well as the personal association with him have been distinct factors in the success of our work. Writer of the 1938-39 Literary lessons, "The Advance of the Novel," his influence will be continued in Relief Society meetings throughout the Church. Truly the line from the above poem, "Just leave my spirit here somewhere?" will know fulfillment.
Sister Edna Merrill, like her husband, has given generously to Relief Society.