Visiting Teachers are to call attention to Theology, Literary and Social Service lessons, also Work and Business programs planned by your ward.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Literature
THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL
LESSON 3
ROBINSON CRUSOE (Concluded)
NOWHERE does Defoe reveal his mastery of drama better than in the finding of the footprint in the sand by Robinson Crusoe. Crusoe has been upon his island for years and has been left entirely to his own devices. He has built up a "town house" and a "country estate" and is really the master of his entire island, happy in his possessions, safe, and reconciled to his fate. Then suddenly when all is going smoothly and he has property to lose, he discovers that he is not the only inhabitant of the island.
Defoe makes use of this incident to picture Robinson's terror and his dread. The religion which he had constructed for himself in which he had his God, all-knowing, all-powerful, and sympathetic, went upon the rocks with a crash. Crusoe was human, after all. He was like us all who, when our hopes are shattered and real dangers loom, wonder if God does really know and if he does really care enough to save us. After hours of fear, Crusoe, like us, returned to prayer and to his Bible for solace.
"One morning early," says he, "lying in my bed, and filled with thoughts about my danger from the appearance of savages, I found it discomposed me very much; upon which those words of the scripture came into my thoughts, 'Call upon Me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver, and thou shalt glorify Me.' Upon this, rising cheerfully out of bed, my heart was not only comforted but I was guided and encouraged to pray earnestly to God for deliverance. When I had done praying, I took up my Bible, and opening to read, the first words that presented to me were, 'Wait on the Lord, and be of good cheer, and He shall strengthen thy heart; wait, I say, on the Lord.' It is impossible to express the comfort this thought gave me, and in return I thankfully laid down the book, and was no more sad; at least, not on that occasion."
Crusoe so comforted himself that he, like all of us might do, began to wonder if he had seen a footprint at all. He returned to the place and to his dismay found that it was not only a footprint, but that it was much larger than his own. Furthermore, it could not have been his own footprint. "Both these things," said he, "filled my head with new imaginations, and gave me the vapors again to the highest degree, so that I shook with cold like one in an ague." Defoe, however, did not allow Crusoe to find another person on the island at once. He used this experience of the footprint as the motivation of a great deal of activity on the part cf his hero. Crusoe set about strengthening his position on the island by building "barbed wire entanglements" or what amounted to the same thing. Years passed, this single footprint remaining a nightmare in the mind of the man who did not know what to fear or whence his danger might come. Defoe seemed to delight in keeping not only his hero, but his reader in suspense as he wove his tale, his hero caught in the meshes LESSON DEPARTMENT of it and feverishly building against an unseen, and unknown, and unpredictable enemy. Then one day while walking on the shore in a strange part of the island, Crusoe came upon a place where skulls were scattered about on the ground and the signs of a camp could plainly be seen. He knew at once that cannibals had been feasting on the spot. This sight, rather than increasing his terror, abated it, for at least he knew something definite about the visitors to the island. The footprint had been robbed of much of its mystery. He reasoned humanly and rightly that if he had lived eighteen years on his island without being found and eaten, he might easily live another eighteen in safety. However, no human being could know that cannibals were visiting his island without spying on them upon occasion. Robinson did that and began to plan a method of rescuing some of the prisoners of the cannibals who were being brought: over for the feasts. He says that should he write of all the plans he made, his book would go far beyond the length he had in mind for it. He did, however, sharpen his cutlasses and clean and prime his guns. During his twenty-third year on the island, Robinson found a cave. This place recommended itself to him as a hide-out. Surrounded now by his cats, his parrot, his goats and kids, he said he-felt like the ancient giants of the earth. Along about the twenty-fourth year on the island, Crusoe discovered a ship off shore. He visited it and from it secured gold and many other things more valuable to him at that time, including a dog, the only thing alive on board. The crew, except for two men who were found with prisoners once again. 635 drowned, had disappeared as if the ship for some reason or another had been abandoned, as his own had been. It was not long after he had found the ship that Robinson Crusoe had another dream. In it he beheld a company of savages coming to shore This time he thought one of the prisoners asked for help. During all of his years on the island, Crusoe had been planning some way to escape to the mainland which he knew could not be so very far away since the savages came to his island frequently. He decided, as a result of his dream, that he should make a rescue in order that he might have help in launching a boat large enough to withstand the waves. Thereafter he did much scouting and finally one day saw a company come to the shore and found it possible to rescue one of the prisoners whom he named Friday after the day of the week upon which he was procured. Certainly the crisis of the book is reached in the capture of Friday if not, indeed, in the finding of the footprint upon the shore. As soon as Crusoe has human companionship, the story loses some of its charm; however, Defoe still maintains the even tenor of his narrative by having Crusoe spend much time teaching this savage the ways of Christianity. The first days and nights with Friday were fraught with danger for Crusoe. How was he to know how this cannibal would respond to his new situation? Indeed, Crusoe spent many wakeful hours planning a means of making himself safe from this new companion whom he had obtained, However, as time passed, Crusoe discovered that his man Friday was really a splendid 636 man at heart, capable of all of the fine feelings of a Christian gentleman. His difference lay only in his early training and environment. This thought gave Defoe, the author, an opportunity to soliliquize upon the providences of God. Says he: "This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with wonder, that however it had pleased God, in His providence, and in the government of the works of His hands, to take from so great a part of the world of His creatures the best uses to which their faculties and the powers of their souls are adapted, yet that. He has bestowed upon them the same powers, the same reason, the same affections; the same passions and resentments of wrongs, the same sense of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and all the capacities of doing good, and receiving good, that He has given us; and that when He pleases to offer them occasions for exerting these, they are as ready, nay, more ready, to apply them to the right uses for which they were restored than we are. This made me very melancholy sometimes, in reflecting, as the several occasions presented, how mean a use we make of all these, even though we have these powers enlightened by the great lamp of instruction, the Spirit of God, and by the knowledge of His word added to our understanding; and why it has pleased God to hide the like saving knowledge from so many millions of souls, who, if I might judge by this poor savage, would make a much better use of it than we did." Defoe makes the teaching of Christianity to Friday an opportunity for him to make a statement about religion. His discussion of the devil and God and the relationships of the two as he carries it on through his Robinson Crusoe to his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE man Friday is most interesting and might be read in class with profit. The leaving of the island by Robinson Crusoe was assured to the reader as soon as he had procured the assistance of another man. Therefore, the story loses in interest as it proceeds, for although the departure was somewhat different from that expected by the reader, the departure was certain. "And thus I left the island, the 19th of December, as I found it by the ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had been upon it eight-andtwenty years, two months, and nineteen days; being delivered from this second capacity the same day of the month that I first made my escape in the longboat from among the Moors of Sallee. In this vessel after a long voyage, I arrived in England - the 11th of June, in the year 1687, having been thirty-five years absent." That does not end the story, as it probably would. Have done had Robinson Crusoe been a modern 'book. Defoe is not willing to leave his story unfinished and, therefore, takes his hero through other adventures until all matters have been straightened out. The remaining portion of the book, though intended to be adventure, falls rather flat and may easily be omitted except as an illustration of Defoe's method. Here then is one of the greatest and most popular adventure stories ever written. Daniel Defoe will probably live in the hearts of English-speaking people as long as the language shall last. In Robinson Crusoe future novelists had a pattern and its success was motivating enough for other novels. With its publication, the English novel was well upon its glorious way. LESSON DEPARTMENT Questions and Problems 1. In what way did the length of the preceeding narrative contribute to the dramatic intensity of finding the footprint upon the island? 2. Name some unfoldments in Crusoe's character. 3. In what lies the interest of this story? How has Defoe succeeded in making the story of one man so 'two men: 637 intensely interesting that it has been a favorite for two hundred years? 4, What are some of the characteristics of Friday? 5. In modern life what is the significance of the statement when applied to a modern relation between "He is John Doe's Friday.?" 6. Evaluate Defoe as a novelist. A Social Service Lesson 3 Do My Emotions HINpDER or Hetp ME? I. Scope of the Lesson. Feelings and emotions give quality and color to our lives. Much of the value we place on any aspect of life depends upon the feelings and emotions it arouses. An emotion is considered here as a "stirred up state" in which our thoughts ramble and are somewhat out of control and in which our bodies are full of sensations of changes going on in preparation for meeting a conflicting situation. Emotions arise when we lose control of situations. The more completely emotions dominate us, the less of conscious control there is. Control over emotions increases with age, as habits of social living are acquired. The chief step in developing control over emotions is to learn to analyze clearly the causes of the emotion. This knowledge permits us to make conscious or intelligent adjustments in place of emotional ones. A set of rules for acquiring control is offered. II. What are Feelings? Feelings are generally milder experiences than emotions, but they still have much to do in determining the course of our lives. They are described by such words as pleasure, displeasure, mirth, amusement, excitement, contentment, surprise, resentment, and longing. Feelings are often diffuse and do nct refer te a specific object or situation. Thus when one feels tired, he has a mass of sensations within, but they are not like the sensations that lead us to look at a sunset, for example. Frequently a feeling will spread from one object to another, because it is so diffuse and often lacks a definite object. Thus, we feel joyous one day and may not know exactly why, yet, we speak particularly pleasant to everyone we meet. Intelligent activity or thinking tends to push feeling aside, as when we continue to read a detective story 'into the night, not noticing fatigue until the mystery is solved. Hurt feelings are most easily cured by busying ourselves with some constructive or benevolent work. Thought is influenced greatly by feeling too. A person may experience a mild failure and forthwith begin to think destructively about his abilities, thereby predisposing him- 638 self to the next failure. Thus is an inferiority complex developed. III. An Emotion is a More Stirred Up Condition Than a Feeling. Whenever circumstances get out of control, we become stirred up mentally and bodily. For example, when our competitor scores a gain on us, or we find ourselves unable to control a speeding automobile, we get stirred up and hate our competitor in the first case and fear an accident in the second. These experiences are emotions. On the physical side, when we fear something, our glands pour into our blood a substance called adrenalin which tones up our muscles for flight, restricts our small blood vessels in the skin making us turn pale and throwing all of our available blood supply to the large muscles where it will be needed in flight. Our heart beat is quickened and we breathe faster. Should the object of our fear suddenly disappear, as in righting an uncontrollable car, we sigh in relief, but for some time we still feel the bodily change that took place. William James claimed that an emotion is the sensation of bodily changes and that a person does not fear an object until these changes take place. He said "we feel sorry because we cry, angry because we strike, afraid because we tremble." (James, 1890, vol. II, p. 450.) Emotions usually last longer than thoughts and as in the case of feelings, emotions are even more likely to persist after the situation has passed. This residue from an emotion, which is often simply chemical products remaining in the blood, leaves us "set" to act emotionally in the next adjustment we make. It is easy for a newcomer into a group of people to start an argument with RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE someone who has just finished one with someone else. IV. Bodily Changes in Emotions Have Been Demonstrated Eperimentally. Cannon at Harvard did an interesting experiment on a cat. After filling its stomach with a substance which could be X-rayed, he observed that as the cat purred peacefully its stomach churned rhythmically to digest its food. A dog was then brought into the room suddenly. The cat bristled its hair, spit, and became much stirred up outwardly. But the most interesting observation was that the cat's stomach stopped suddenly in its work of digestion, nor was this digestive activity resumet! Until about fifteen minutes after the dog was removed. The moral of this experiment is selfevident?let pleasant subjects predominate at the dinner table, for the sake of digestion, if for no other reason. Other bodily changes during emotion have been shown experimentally, such as the ability of the skin to conduct electricity, rate of breathing, blood pressure, and the presence in the blood of stimulating substances called hormones. A group of students were once given doses of adrenalin (the anger and fear producing substance poured into the blood during emotion) to see if they would immediately become angry. They did not really experience the emotion of anger, but they "felt as if" they might become angry if provoked. Organic conditions such as these probably persist and leave the body "set" for an emotional outburst. We say a person has a "'chip on his shoulder' when he has been made angry and acts ready to "pick a fight'"' wherever he goes.