Old Shawls From India—Cashmere By Lutie H. Fryer Assistant Professor—Home Economics Department—U. Of U. THE custom of wearing shawls is ages old and extends around the globe, from Asia to Europe, from Europe to America. The word "shawl" is derived from the Hindoo and Persian word "shal". Large and small shawls of delicate lace or heavy silk, of fine wool weave or cotton print have been worn about the head, hung from the shoulders, or draped around the body like a garment. Traveling the cycle of fashion, the shawl has intermittently appeared and reappeared in some countries as a favorite article of woman's dress, while elsewhere it has always been regarded as an indispensable part of the costume. Sixty years ago beautiful shawls were worn by all women of fashion in Europe and America.; Out of the Orient came the shawls of India, Persia and Turkey. From India came the finest, and of these the shawl from the Vale of Kashmir was ever the most beautiful. Poets have referred to this place as the home of the rose, the tulip, the lotus and the nightingale. Are famous all over the world for their knowledge of coloring and their mastery of design. There it was centuries ago that Kashmir (Anglicized Cashmere) shawls were made. Today they are almost priceless because shawl weaving as an important industry has all but died out in that land. HE marvelously fine curly wool called pashm or pashmina, from which the best shawls were made, is an undercoat of peIts people > culiar delicacy that grows on the goats of Tibet to protect them from the cold and damp climate. In the spring the long hair was sheared and the pashmina removed by the aid of a rude comb, the shearing being done from the head towards the tail, and the combing in the reverse direction. It required the wool from several goats to produce sufficient yarn for one shawl, because the full grown animal yielded only about half a pound. The pashmina was packed into small bales of about thirty pounds and fastened to the backs of long-legged sheep which picked their dangerous way down over the winding, snowy passes of the Himalayas into the valley of Kashmir. The precious bundles of shawl-wool were cleaned with rice powder or a warm solution of potash, bleached, carded, and then spun into yarn on the common churka or crude spinning-wheel by Indian women who often worked from dawn to midnight, sometimes by moonlight when her poverty denied her the use of even a cheap oil-lamp. Occasionally, groups of women and girls could be seen spinning and singing together far into the night. At one time there were 100,000 of these spinners in Kashmir. The fine wool was generally spun into lengths of seven hundred yards, later was doubled and twisted by a reeler, and cut into lengths of about 3¼ yards, the usual length of a shawl warp. The spinners sold the yarn to a puimangu, or a yarn merchant who, in turn, sold it at a small profit to the weaver. Yarn was
OLD SHAWLS FROM INDIA—CASHMERE
not exported as there was a heavy revenue on finished shawls, which was practically controlled by the Maharaja, who derived an excessive income from the shawl industry. The weaver took the yarn and his pattern to another person, who separated it into piles according to the colors indicated by the pattern. The design had been drawn in black and white and the colors merely indicated as a guide to the weaver and dyer. The weaver then took the yarn to the dyer or dyers, as each family specialized generally in one color. Dyeing in the Orient has been for ages an hereditary occupation, the
secret recipes for the various colors being jealously guarded from one generation to the next. These dyers of shawl-wool used pure vegetable dyes which accounts for the glowing depth and richness of colors found in old shawls from India. Indigo, cochineal, carthamus, logwood and saffron were used to produce reds, purples, blues, greens, yellow, orange and rose. The wool of the Tibet goat, being finer and whiter than that of the sheep, took on more brilliant hues, and the waters of the Jhelum River was an important factor in the pureness of the dyes and the softness of the wool.
A Cashmere Shawl of the Kussabas Type (square shawl) and the Kassee-Roomal (loom woven).
The weaver was not ready even now to begin his task, as the various steps in the process of shawl making were highly specialized. He must now carry the skeins of dyed yarn to the nakatu, who cut it into required lengths and wound it into balls. The number of warp lengths varied from 2000 to 3000 according to the fineness or coarseness of the yarn and the texture of the shawl to be woven. A warp-dresser next prepared the yarn with rice water to give it a slight stiffness which facilitated the weaving. After the warper had prepared the loom, the pattern-maker and the yarn-apportioner were called in and with the aid of the black and white design, worked out and dictated to a third person, who wrote down the distribution of the various colors and the number of yarns required for each motif. The notes which described the design for the complete shawl were given to the weaver, who at last began the important task of weaving.
SEATED before his loom, with the wrong side of the shawl toward him, the weaver worked silently while the reader called off the pattern. Two weavers were required in the making of a wide shawl, one throwing the shuttle halfway across, the other completing the throw. The weave was either plain or twill. Very narrow borders were woven with the body of the shawl; wider ones were generally woven separately on a small loom and afterward joined to the center with remarkable skill. These borders varied in width from a few inches to a foot or more, and the more borders a shawl had, the greater its value. The design motifs were generally worked out with an unusual kind
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
of weave, in which a filling yarn did not run clear across as is the case in most woven fabrics, but ran back and forth across a single motif, interlocking at each turn with the differently colored yarn of the adjacent motif or of the background. This peculiar lock stitch gave a firmness which required no binder and which produced fine seam-like ridges which have led some people to believe that all the motifs were woven separately, and put together with minute seams. These seams are to be found where the borders are joined, where the center or field is pierced, or where certain motifs, left blank during the weaving, have been cut out and replaced by pattern pieces of other colors.
After weeks of labor when the master piece was finally finished, the weaver turned the shawl over to the cleaner, who cut off all loose ends and passed it on to the mender. The custom office now levied a twenty-six percent ad valorem duty and stamped and registered the shawl. Through a broker the manufacturer disposed of his goods to a merchant, a transaction which generally took place towards the end of the day, when the evening glow would best bring out the beauty of coloring. The merchant cleansed the shawls in clear water, put them upon a stretcher for two days, and then packed them. The shawls were folded and laid alternately with sheets of glazed paper, pressed for several days, sewn first into a cloth cover, next into one of birch bark, into a third of waxed cloth, and lastly into one of rawhide. They were well protected against the longest possible journey.
The price of a Kashmir varied according to size and to the intricacy of the design, ranging from 40 rupees
OLD SHAWLS FROM INDIA—CASHMERE
($20.00) to 10,000 rupees ($5,000). Two of the best grade, occupying a dozen persons for about a year, brought approximately 30,000 rupees ($15,000).
IN the time of the Sultan Akbar, who conquered Kashmir in 1586, there were about 1,000 establishments for the weaving of shawls, employing most of the 40,000 looms throughout the valley. The industry held its own until the famine of 1820 drove many of the weavers southward into the Punjab, marking the beginning of a steady decline, contributed to by recurrent famine, adulteration of wool and dyes by the native manufacturers, the rise of shawl making in Europe, the abolition of forced labor, the increase of agriculture, and the introduction of other more remunerative occupations. The industry that once was the crowning glory of Kashmir has gradually degenerated into a rather commonplace needlework, done with floss silk or cotton which the tourist innocently brings home as beautiful examples of Indian embroidery.
THE characteristic design motif of the Kashmir shawls was the well known figure which has been variously called cone, cypress, pine, riverloop, Persian flame, palm leaf, mango and pear. Several explanations of the origin and meaning of this design have been given. It is a conventionalized form of a religious symbol. It originated in Chaldea, from whence it spread into India and Persia, appearing also in the arts of Arabia and Egypt. In Chaldea the date palm was a first necessity of existence, hence used as a symbol of fertility of nature in supplying food. It was known as "Tree of Life" and is connected with ancient worship. Two ornaments were derived from it: (1) The pine or cone, which was the male or pollen-bearing inflorescence of the date palm; when
The well-known Cashmere Motif
CASHMERE SCARF
associated with the flower, it becomes a symbol of the Creator. The pine and the flower are in reality the ornaments used in the Tabernacle in the wilderness (Exodus XXV-31) and in Solomon's Temple (I Kings, VI-8). (2). The foliage of the date palm gave rise to what is called "honeysuckle ornament" so well known in Greek art.
It is easy to understand how the pine as a form of decoration came to be so generally used in Indian art. The Hindoo is a religious man and a mystic. Religion in form colors all his life and hence affects his art. In Indian art, symmetry and alternation play an important part in the arrangement of pattern, with a somewhat conventional or formal treatment of the flora forms, as compared with the more frank interpretation in Persian art.
The Mongul Emperors wore on their turbans a jeweled ornament known as the "Jigha", shaped like a cone, on the top of which was an aigret of feathers. A weaver of Kashmir used the form of the Jigha with a floral enrichment on a scarf for the emperor Baber with such a pleasing effect that the Jigha became a fashionable design in all shawls and scarfs and other articles of personal use. As the delineation of human or animal forms was in general prohibited by religion, the designs were mostly conventional or realistic flowers.
NEXT in value and beauty to the shawls of India are the Persian, Turkish and Bokara. Though similar in general coloring, design and weave, the wool from which they are made was not so fine nor the weave so close.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
According to the size and shape, the Indian shawls are divided into two general classes: the dosballas, or "long shawls", and kussabas, or "square shawls". In addition, there were kamewar, or shawl cloth woven in stripes or small all-over patterns sold by the yard, and ulwan, or plain white shawl cloth. The kussaba is divided into two classes: the kassee roomal, or loom-woven in the manner already described, and the umlee roomal, or needle embroidered shawl. The long shawls were more in favor in the Orient but the square ones in Europe.
Cashmere shawls add untold beauty of interesting design and color to a home when used properly. They make beautiful wall hangings, as works of art. A long shawl is best hung, slightly folded, over a pole, so as to show a little over two-thirds. A square shawl may be hung in a like manner. If the wall space is large enough to permit a small shawl to be used as a wall hanging, brass rings should be sewn across one end and hung on a rod. Shawls are far too valuable to be used as couch covers.
Experience shows that many persons who own genuine Oriental shawls have all too little knowledge and appreciation of their real value as art treasures. Many have suffered from sacrilegious scissors. These great masterpieces of art are genuine antiques. Bring them out into the light and use occasionally to give pleasure to all who see them, but never cut one up to be made into evening wraps, dresses or bags as too often has been the case. No one would be guilty of cutting up an oil painting and yet a beautiful Oriental shawl ranks in value with an oil painting.