V. Prolonged Emotions May Have Bad Effects Upon Physical LESSON DEPARTMENT and Mental Health. It should be apparent that if one keeps. His body stirred up with an emotion of fear or anger, he is likely to impair his physical health. His digestion is impaired for one thing, and the fine balance of all of the internal glands is upset so that the least we should say is that his body cannot function most efficiently. Preparation for flight, as in fear, or for combat, as in anger, is seldom required in modern civilization. The effects on mental health are even worse. A hateful person makes enemies, wastes much of his energy with his grudges, and fails to do his work efficiently. These failures handicap him in his life ambitions and make his adjustments needlessly difficult. Fear likewise distracts a person, makes him unhappy, destroys his sleep and finally tends to make an inefficient machine of him. VI. Domination of Thought Over Emotion Increases with Age and Culture. An infant makes no effort to control his feelings, and a child cares little about concealing his emotions. An adult, however, carefully guards most of his emotional expressions, because so often emotion indicates he is not complete master of the situation. Particularly does an adult guard against appearing afraid. He "whistles in the dark," both to bolster his courage and to impress others that he is not afraid. The child acts emotionally more often than an adult does because he lacks control over his world and because he has not yet learned the checks and controls over his feelings, which come with training the emotions and with greater ability to solve problems thoughtfully. Anger outbursts have been shown to definitely decrease with age. Occasionally we meet an adult 639 who, through lack of early training or emotional maturity, acts childishly?fears objects ordinarily feared only by children, or more commonly demonstrates his anger on slight provocation. A large part of our culture is to learn to curb primitive expressions of emotions. Men formerly settled their difficulties only with fists and swords, but now we whip our enemies by cool-headed bargaining and arbitration and occasionally with battles of words. Our cultural control of emotion has not reached the fine point necessary to prevent wars. War occurs when propaganda stirs up the emotions of large masses of people on both sides to the point that thoughtfulness is crowded aside and diplomatic and cool-headed arbitration is no longer possible. Jesus spoke of a degree of emotional control impossible to most of us when he said, "I say unto you, That ye resist not evil: but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also." An even more severe test for some of us He defined when He said, "Give to him that asketh of thee. And from him that would borrow of thee turn not thou away." ' (Matt. 5:39, 42.) The person who can maintain a head clear enough to "pray for them which despitefully, use you' indeed has good emotional control.