To think clearly when angry, as Jesus did in driving the money changers from the temple, is more than most of us can do. So often in fits of anger, reason is so suppressed that we say things we immediately regret. In controlling ourselves and others who may be angry at us, most of us would do better to learn the wisdom of, "A soft answer turneth away wrath, but grievous words stir up anger," (Prov. 15:1) and, "He that 640 is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city." (Prov. 16:32.) VII. Emotional Abnormalities When an adult shows a childish lack of emotional control, we say he has regressed to an earlier level of response which may have satisfied him as a child but which poorly fits an adult. Throwing tantrums when frustrated, crying freely over little hurts and disappointments, or turning back with too great enthusiasm to the interests of childhood, indicate either a failure to grow up emotionally, or a turning back (or regression) to earlier satisfactions because the present and future are so unsatisfying. When carried to an extreme, affect one's efficiency and therefore his happiness. In a certain condition called schizophrenia, the person loses his power to respond properly emotionally, in love or fear or anger. He just doesn't care much about what happens outside his own thoughts; he is never thoroughly thrilled nor deeply disturbed. What emotion he does show is out of joint with the situation producing it. He has no ambition, no purpose, no enthusiasms. The evil of this condition is evident. All of our emotional functions have their proper uses and should be cultivated and controlled in such a way that they give quality and color to our experiences and zest to the pursuit of our purposes. A complex is another form emotion may take that is sometimes injurious. A complex is a group of ideas with an emotional core. Complexes are emotionally colored and generally resist correction from reason. They are similar to the pet prejudices and grudges we have, or a, violent love attachment, or subjects regression can radically. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE about which we are cranky. When we find ourselves getting so emotional about a certain set of ideas, we would do well to "ventilate" with reason as early as possible, because when once the "emotional wall" around those ideas is constructed, reason no longer gains entrance. Extreme cases of complexes are the delusions of the insane, which are simply false beliefs, emotionally loaded, which resist all argument. VIII. How Emotions Develop Into Sentiments. Similar to complexes in their emotional origin are sentiments, such as respect for parents, idealization of the home, reverence for God, honor for the pioneers, and love of virtue. Our Church songs, dramatizations of great deeds and ideals, give feeling tone to these ideals and create sentiments. Sentiments, of course, are the cultural and proper expression for much of our primitive emotion. They affect our religious faith and govern our conduct where reason often fails us. Sentiments represent the finest type of emotional development. The myth of Santa Claus is a sentiment which is as real in our experience as anything can be. Christmas spirit, fine fellow feeling, attitudes toward our pioneer ancestors, attitudes concerning family reunion in the hereafter are all sentiments and represent the highest expressions of our feelings and add infinitely to the value of life. Cultivation of proper sentiments regarding home life is the strongest safeguard of chastity. Most effective moral controls are sentiments. IX. A Few Hints on How to Develop Emotional Control. 1. Take account of the time factor by allowing enough time to collect one's thoughts before responding to an emotion-arousing situation.