Pioneer Sacrifice
By Ellen R. Bryner
IT was an early fall morning. The air was crisp and cold. The comforts of the improvised two rooms of log with earthen floor and roof were very few. Caroline Butler awakened after a night of restless anxiety. There were eleven hungry mouths to feed. For days their rations had been scanty. A little wild game had come to them occasionally from members of the camp, while the husband and father, with his teams and wagons assisted poorer Saints into Winter Quarters. The food in the larder was not sufficient to satisfy the needs for one meal of the hungry growing family.
As the anxious mother placed the last scanty store of food upon the rough table, and urged her family to make preparations for their morning meal, her heart was full of entreaty to God to send help from some source that day. As they were about to partake, an old Indian woman walked into the room and asked for bread. Caroline was conscious of her family's needs for food and of her own physical weakness from an almost utter lack of it, because she had given most of her portion to satisfy the hunger of her smaller children. "This is all we have," she answered, "but we will share it with you." The Indian woman partook and went her way. Not far away through the woods she had thriftily stored some food after the Indian fashion.
CAROLINE learned that day that bread cast upon the water to satisfy the hungry shall come back an hundred fold. This Indian grandmother (for thus she was known from that day forth) returned with sufficient dried buffalo meat and dried berries to stay the pangs of hunger until other supplies came. Many times during the three years stay she came to that humble refuge sharing her own savings of food with her adopted family.
Poverty was the order of the day with these driven and much persecuted Latter-day Saints. As many were doing, this large family was planning the long journey westward without sufficient foot-wear and clothing, a consequence of the confiscation of their possessions and being driven from their homes. Hearing that the journey to the mountains was soon to be continued, Grandmother Squaw determined to make heavy buckskin moccasins for each member of the family. After tedious weeks of labor all were finished and fitted with the exception of a pair for the mother. She spent extra time decorating this pair as a visible sign of her deep devotion. Early one morning, knowing the time for their departure was near, she approached the little log house only to find her loved ones gone. Almost overcome with disappointment and sorrow, she sat up an Indian wail and started to follow the wagon tracks.
Five miles the family had traveled that first day. After the campfires had burned low, oxen cared for, and all the weary travelers were settled in their beds, an Indian wail was heard in the distance, growing louder as it came nearer. Grandmother Squaw had followed her new found family in order to present her last token of love before a final goodbye. With the moccasins she had brought a generous supply of dried pulverized venison in a pouch made from the stomach of a deer, and a sack of dried berries.
Sacrifice and service bring their own reward. Reaching out to share, however little our own portion, richly compensates the giver.
Nutrition and Health
By Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe, University of Utah
"NUTRITION, The Chemistry of Life" is truly an inspired title to a great book. This book impresses one with the vital necessity of an understanding of nutrition in building positive health. Nutrition is not a new field of knowledge. Investigators have been conscious of its importance and as early as 1585 people understood that body temperature and energy to do work came from the food they ate. Nothing was known of the special values of any one kind of food; all foods were considered as aliments. From this vague beginning up to the present time many wonderful truths have been discovered by our research workers.
Today the science of nutrition occupies a prominent place in the scientific world and its importance is generally recognized. The nutrition problem of concern is how the mothers in thirty million homes of the United States and the millions in other countries, may become informed concerning the principles of correct feeding of their families for health and efficiency, and what means can be used to convince them of its serious importance in family well-being. The next most serious problem is how to distribute the world's wealth so that each family will possess sufficient purchasing power to provide the right kinds of food in sufficient amounts to meet its needs.
The important functions of nutrition are roughly classified as follows:
1. To provide heat and energy.
2. To supply body building material.
3. To control the body functions.
*"Nutrition, The Chemistry of Life" Mendel Lafayette.
To Provide Heat and Energy
IN order to meet all of these requirements one must understand what constitutes a food supply that will meet these needs. First, in order to insure an adequate supply of energy, a diet must contain enough foods so that when they are burned in the body there will be sufficient heat released to keep the body warm and sufficient energy given off to enable the body to perform its internal and external work.
Where do heat and energy come from and how are they made available for the use of the body? Originally all energy comes from the sun. It is stored in growing plants; animals and human beings eat these plants which constitute our original food supply. The plant world furnishes our entire supply of vegetables and fruits; the animals eat the products of the vegetable kingdom and then transform them into animal foods such as meat, milk, eggs, etc. In all these foods, vegetable and animal, the energy is stored. These foods are prepared for consumption, some are eaten in their raw state, others are cooked in order to make them more palatable and more easily digested.
The next step towards the release of this energy is the digestion of the foodstuffs. The sole purpose of digestion is to prepare the food so that it may be taken into the
NUTRITION AND HEALTH
blood stream and thence carried to every living cell in the body. All food that is ready for the blood stream is in a liquid form, that is, the food is in solution so that it can pass through the body membranes. All indigestible material and all waste products are eliminated from the body.
As this food enters into the millions of little cells in all parts of the body, some of it is burned and this is the source of our heat and energy. Just as gasoline is burned to supply energy to run the car, or as we burn fuel in our stoves or furnaces to give us heat, so is food burned in our bodies. Some of this food is also used to build new body tissues, muscles, bones, brain, nerves, etc. Some of the food is used to form the digestive juices, the secretions of the many glands that have so much to do in controlling the functions of the body such as the beating of the heart, the breathing of the lungs, the oxidation of foods and many other vital activities of the body.
Since it requires energy to grow and energy to do the internal work of the body of which we are not conscious, as well as the work that we do externally, one must be sure that he is eating sufficient food to meet these needs.
What foods are the best sources of energy? All foods except the minerals and water will yield heat and energy when they are burned. Some foods will yield more heat and energy per given unit just as some fuels will yield more energy, depending upon their composition and the completeness of their burning. Fatty foods, like hard coal, will yield the greatest amount of heat and energy if completely burned. Butter, fats, and oils of all kinds will give us the most heat for a given amount of the food. All of the starchy foods such as rice, tapioca, bread, cereals, root and tuber vegetables; the sugars, syrups, honey and fruits will give off heat and energy when burned. Meat, fish, eggs, and other protein foods also supply heat and energy.
The following illustration will give an idea of the comparative amounts of heat and energy: One gram of fat will yield nine calories and one gram of starch, sugar, or protein will yield four calories of heat. The words heat and energy are used interchangeably. Heat is a form of energy and while we do not know just what energy is we do know that it is the power by means of which the body performs its internal and external work.
To Supply Body Building Material
THE next important function of food is to supply building material for the growth and development of the body. Protein foods are the chief sources of building material. Such foods are found universally distributed throughout the animal and vegetable kingdoms. Life is dependent upon the presence of proteins. They are absolutely necessary in the nucleus and active or protoplasmic tissue of every cell. No new cell can be built nor any old cell repaired without the presence of protein. All the vital processes of life are dependent upon it. Plants can build protein out of the simple substances in the soil and air, while animals must feed upon the plants or other animals in order to obtain their protein. If one ate no protein, even though an abundance of the starches, sugars, and fats were eaten, one would soon starve. To death. Surplus protein 598 foods cannot be stored for use in the body as can fats and carbohydrates, but must be supplied by the daily diet. Protein foods differ from the other food classes in the fact that they contain the element of nitrogen. Protein foods are made up of what are called amino acids. There are twenty-one definitely known amino acids at the present time. These amino acids are spoken of as building stones. Each amino acid has its own chemical identity and one cannot be substituted for another, but they can supplement each other. In order to show the differences in the protein values, the protein foods are classified as follows: Complete proteins—those that contain all of the amino acids that have to be supplied in the food in sufficient amounts to maintain life and provide for normal growth— such as the protein in milk, meat, eggs, cheese. Proteins partially complete—those which, when used as the sole source of protein in the diet, are able to maintain life but will not support growth—such as the proteins in cereals and vegetables. Other proteins—such as gelatin in meat and others in certain cereals and vegetables—cannot even maintain growth because of the absence of certain important amino acids. The common protein foods all contain mixtures of proteins. Proteins rich in certain amino acids will supplement the proteins that do not contain all the amino acids thus making all of them function in maintaining life and supporting growth. Thus milk, a complete protein, will supplement bread, an incomplete protein; cheese will supplement macaroni; meat will supplement vegetables, etc. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Minerals are also necessary for the building of body tissue. There are thirteen important elements in the composition of the body. Only five of these elements are present in the carbohydrates— sugar, starches; fats—cream, butter, vegetable oils, fat meat; and proteins—meat, eggs, peas and beans. The other eight elements needed by the body must come largely from the minerals which are found combined with our food supply as it is produced by nature. Purified foods such as pure fats, sugar, corn starch and highly milled grains contain almost none of these important minerals. It is difficult to say which of the minerals are most important. They appear in the body in widely varying amounts but iron which is present in minute amounts is as important as calicium which is found in very great amounts. Some of the most important minerals and their chief uses as building materials are as follows: Calcium and phosphorus build bones and teeth. Sulphur is needed by the hair, nails and skin. Potassium, phosphorus, sulphur and chlorine are needed by soft tissues, especially the muscles. All of the mineral salts, especially phosphorus, are needed by the nervous tissue. All the minerals, especially iron, calcium, sodium, phosphorus and chlorine, are needed to build good normal blood. The various glands need special minerals for their secretions: the stomach needs chlorine; the intestinal secretions need sodium; the thyroid needs iodine. "Nutrition and Health" Bogert. NUTRITION AND HEALTH To Control the Body Functions "THE third important function of food is to make it possible for the many wonderful and important functions of the body to work smoothly and_ efficiently. The mineral salts are mainly concerned in meeting this important responsibility. Food will do no good unless the various processes of the body can be regulated. The first necessity in the control of the body functions is to maintain a normal exchange of the body fluids from one part of the body to another. All food must be dissolved before it can be carried to the various parts of the body. The blood stream is largely made up of water and the soft tissues of the body contain a great deal of it. The concentration of minerals in the fluids of the body are responsible for the movement of the dissolved food products from one part of the body to another. These dissolved food particles are carried from the intestinal tract where they have been digested, to all parts of the body to be used for building material, or burned to produce heat and energy. All of the minerals take part in this important work. Mineral salts are also necessary in order that the muscles of the body can expand and contract, as in the beating of the heart and in the breathing of the lungs; all physical work done by the body, such as walking, washing, ironing, etc. Is done through the power of the muscles to contract and expand. This great muscular action is initiated by the nerves which stimulate the muscles to action. All of the minerals help in these two latter functions. The clotting of the blood which 589 ls so necessary in hemorrhage or when blood vessels are broken is made possible by calcium. We said that the heat and energy was made available to the body through the burning of foods. This oxidation is controlled and made possible largely through the action of the minerals, iodine and iron. There are two general classes of minerals, those that are acid in their reaction and those that are basic. The best health of the body is maintained when the blood stream is slightly alkaline. The blood builds up a reserve supply of alkaline materials so that the blood stream can always be kept alkaline. For this reason one must be sure to eat plenty of fruits, vegetables, nuts and milk to insure a supply of the basic minerals. The acid foods are eggs, meat, and cereals of all kinds. A balance between the acid minerals, phosphorus, sulphur and chlorine and the basic minerals sodium, potassium, calcium and magnesium must be maintained in health. The vitamins also play an important part in regulating the body functions. These vital food substances are necessary to growth and the maintenance of health. There are six known vitamins at the present time and there are others that are not definitely known. Vitamins, A, B, C, D, G, E, are known. Each one has definite functions to perform. No one can be substituted for another but all supplement each other. The existence of these vitamins and the fact that they are essential to growth and health has been established beyond question of a doubt. Space in this article will not permit a discussion of the various classes of foods with their special food values but a well-balanced dietary will include daily a pint and one-half to one quart of milk for growing children and at least a pint for adults; whole wheat bread and whole grain cereals should be used liberally; two or more fresh vegetables other than potatoes should be eaten daily; green leafy vegetables, carrots, tomatoes and all red or yellow vegetables should be eaten as often as possible as they are our richest sources of mineral salts and vitamins.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE