[Vol8 | February 1921 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for April]

LESSON III, Literature (Third Week of April ) THE MORNING BREAKS, THE SHADOWS FLEE. The first issue of the Millennial Star edited by Parley P. Pratt, was given to the world in May, 1840, ten years after the organization of the Church, and four years before the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith. It will be eighty-one years this coming May since the Star was first Published, thus Making it the oldest Church Periodical issued Up to date, as no other Church Publication has extended Over a similar Period of time, 
 It was on the outer cover of the first issue of the Millennial Star that the hymn, "The morning breaks, the shadows flee" was first printed. It is safe to say that few periodicals have made their bow to the world with anything comparable to this hymn. There are forty-four of Parley P. Pratt's hymns published in the Latter-day Saint hymn book, a greater number from his pen than the pen of any other author. Admitting the excellence of many of his other hymns, he reached his high water mark in this deservedly popular song. Not all hymns are poems, this hymn is a poem. It gives us a great and exalted message couched in exquisite and effective imagery. To accord with the exaltation of thought and feeling, we have language so heightened in quality, that some critics characterize such lines as poetic flights. At this point we shall devote a little space to describing two figures of speech generally employed by poets, for the embellishment of their verse, namely, the comparison and the metaphor. A comparison recognizes a likeness between two given things and expresses the resemblance. One of the exquisite comparisons of literature is found in Lowell's "Vision of Sir Launfal,"' reading, "His words were shed softer than-leaves from the pine, And they fell on Sir Launfal like snows on the brine." It is difficult to think of anything falling softer than snows on the brine. A metaphor states one thing in terms of another, an allegory is nothing more than an extended metaphor. When Shakespeare had one of his characters say, "Night's candles are burnt out," he used a metaphor, we know that he means the stars are no longer visible, and that the dawn is appearing, but we are greatly pleased to have the stars called candles. It is evident that he is telling us one thing in terms of another, and it gives us a pleasant surprise. The metaphor is frequently employed in poetic composition, and very heightened prose discourse. Elder Pratt makes good use of this figurative speech because of its rare beauty and effectiveness. The hymn is very fittingly given the first place in the hymn book. It is small wonder indeed that it should have attracted both George Careless, and Evan Stephens; both composers having set it to music. The story of the Careless music is interesting. Professor Careless was the leader of the choir of the London branch, while he was in England, a choir of which the London Saints were justly proud. He came to America in 1864, on a ship called the Hudson. On that vessel was a group of people who had sung in his London - choir. The Careless music to '""The morning breaks, the shadows flee" was composed on shipboard and named Hudson, which title it bears in the Latter-day Saints Psalmody. Elder Careless gathered his former choir members together, they learned the hymn to the new music, and sang it to the captain of the ship, at the same time presenting him with a copy. The captain expressed himself as very greatly delighted with the composition. So much by way of history and introduction. Turning to the hymn we find: "The morning breaks, the shadows flee." Light seems to be the most natural word to express the coming forth of truth and knowledge, as opposed to ignorance and error, whose usual symbol is darkness. Indeed, so natural is this process of thought that we have the word "light" in enlightenment. The poet likens the issuing in of the gospel dispensation to a dawn, in all its loveliness?a picture of surpassing beauty? which is dispelling the shade of night. Yet beautiful as is this picture, the emphasis is not upon the physical, but upon the intellectual, and spiritual. The combined power of this picture is only employed to convey the poet's message. The second line, "Lo Zion's standard is unfurled," carries with it a note of supreme exultation. Then follows the announcement that, "The dawning of a brighter day Majestic rises on the world." The figure as conceived in the first line is carried throughout the stanza, and the dawning is that of a brighter day, spiritually and intellectually, which is the burden of the poet's message. The second stanza reads: "The clouds of error disappear, Before the rays of truth divine, The glory bursting from afar, Wide o'er the nations soon will shine." The figure employed in the first stanza is aptly carried through the second. Again the poet draws his imagery from the sky; the cloud which is dark is the symbol of error. The first two lines are of prime importance. The quality of suggestiveness has already been noted in the lessons. Here we have it employed in truly marvelous fashion. Think for an instant how the rays of truth divine have enlightened the world, in relation to the Godhead, the premortal, the mortal, and immortal existences. Is it not at once evident that the suggestive quality of these two lines is poetically inexhaustible?

Then follows that rather extraordinary word, glory, which means resplendent, magnificent, majestic, etc. The three words, "Glory bursting from afar," are a very telling combination of words, hence the very effective lines, "The glory bursting from afar, Wide o'er the nations soon will shine." "The Gentile fulness now comes in, And Israel's blessings are at hand. Lo! Judah's remnant, cleansed from sin, Shall in their promised Canaan stand." The first line suggests scriptural promises concerning the time of the Gentiles, followed by the thought that Israel has been promised many blessings, which in the light of the restored gospel will be realized. Nor is Judah to be forgotten, for, cleansed from sin, by her long night of banishment, and severe persecution, she is to be forgiven and returned to her promised Canaan. This stanza is full on the thought-content side, and from the standpoint of suggestiveness; but it has not the purely literary merit of the first two stanzas.
"Jehovah speaks! Let earth give ear, And Gentile nations turn and live; His mighty arm is making bare, His covenant people to receive." This stanza is a repetition of the supreme message of the hymn, made specific by the expression, "Jehovah speaks." Nothing could possibly have happened as truly startling to the world, as that Jehovah should speak. The world might discover a continent of vast riches, delve into the secrets of science, and change the whole mode of life, but such an experience could not rank in importance with Jehovah speaking. Then comes the missionaries' appeal to the Gentile nations: "Let earth give ear, and Gentile nations turn and live." Elder Pratt was interested in a great mission; he was editing a missionary journal, and it is perfectly natural that the intense appeal of the missionary to the world should appear in this hymn. We should perhaps think it lacking in a very important factor, if we did not discover this appeal to mankind. Then follows the promise to those who "give ear," that his, Jehovah's mighty arm is making bare, his covenant people to receive."
"Angels from heaven and truth from earth Have met, and both have record borne; Thus Zion's light is bursting forth To bring her ransomed children home.