[Vol8 | February 1921 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: From Zion to Jerusalem]
and  end  with  praise. 
Madame  Mountford,  bom,  brought  up  in  Jerusalem,  and 
yet  of  Russian  parentage  longed  with  an  unspeakable  longing  for 
the  redemption  of  her  native  land  and  its  release  from  Turkish 
bondage.  She  died  two  years  ago,  in  March,  just  a  few  months 
before  the  fall  of  Jerusalem  and  the  entrance  of  the  English 
troops.  We  may  be  sure  her  spirit  witnessed  the  triumph  of 
righteousness  in  the  realms  to  which  she  had  flown. 
Unless  the  student  is  somewhat  familiar  with  current  litera- 
ture, the  rush  of  events,  connected  with  rebuilding  Jerusalem 
and  rehabilitating  all  Palestine,  seems  unbelievable  if  not  miracu- 
lous. 
This  office  is  in  constant  receipt  of  Zionist  information 
which  startles  the  imagination  and  fires  prophetic  fancy.  Since 
the  unusual  occupation  of  Palestine,  nearly  two  years  ago,  Jews 
all  over  the  world  have  been  hastening  preparations  for  a  com- 
plete occupation  of  their  long-time  divorced  home-land ;  but  not 
until  this  past  eight  months  has  it  seemed  possible  for  the  golden 
dreams  to  come  actually  true.  The  Magasiiie  has  related  in 
detail  (in  April,  1919")  the  triumphant  entry  of  the  English  into 
Jerusalem  and  the  literal  fulfilment  of  Orson  Hyde's  prophecy 
in  regard  to  the  nation  which  should  fulfil  that  prophetic  mis- 
sion. With  the  installation  of  Sir  Philip  Herbert  Samuel,  the 
new  civil  governor  of  Palestine,  the  dream  of  nearly  two  thou- 
sand years  has  become  a  partial  reality. 
Sir  Herbert  Samuel  is  an  orthodox  Jew,  and,  as  Lord 
Rothschild  says  of  him,  he  is  a  man  "who  combines  within  him- 
self all  the  higher  attributes  of  a  successful  British  statesman, 
with  the.  heart  of  a  conscientious  Jew."

68  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
It  was  feared,  by  cautious  people,  that  the  Jews  would  not 
care  to  turn  away  from  the  peaceful  lands  where  they  have  long 
been  domiciled,  whose  institutions  they  may  love,  and  whose 
traditions  have  become  a  part  of  their  own,  to  return  to  a  deserted 
and  warring-  country,  although  that  country  was  Jerusalem. 
Much  more  was  it  feared  that  the  Arabs,  Syrians,  and  the 
conglomerate  mass  of  people  who  live  in  Palestine,  would  strenu- 
ously object  to  the  Jew  returning  en  masse,  into  Judah.  Neither 
of  these  fears  have  been  realized.  Jews  have  turned  their  faces 
to  Palestine  in  such  vast  numbers  that  immigration  has  had  to 
be  greatly  curtailed.  While  the  English  officials  have  been  so 
discreet  in  their  Palestine  policy  that  peace  has  settled  like  a  dove 
over  Jerusalem,  powerful  Jewish  syndicates  have  been  formed 
in  every  nation,  money  is  pouring  in,  from  rich  and  poor  alike, 
ignorance  and  culture  vie  with  each  other  in  eager  response  to 
calls  for  day  laborers,  or  scientifically  trained  minds,  when  the 
announcements  come  from  Jerusalem  that  means  and  men  are 
needed. 
Perhaps  the  most  significant  expression  of  the  universal 
Jewish  feeling  was  made  in  London  at  a  mammoth  gathering 
in  the  Albert  Hall,  July  12,  1920.  It  is  stated  to  have  been  "the 
most  extraordinary  meeting  in  the  annals  of  the  Anglo-Jewry." 
Thirty  thousand  people  tried  to  get  into  a  hall  which  held  only 
ten  thousand.  Lord  Rothschild  was  chairman  of  the  evening 
and  introduced  the  various  speakers.  Lord  Balfour  was  the 
first  speaker,  then  came  the  Marquis  of  Crewe,  and  Lord  Rob- 
ert Cecil,  with  Major  Ormsby-Gore  who  was  with  Allenby  in 
the  taking  of  Jerusalem,  and  all  referred  to  the  phases  of  this 
vital   movement.      Major   Ormsby-Gore   remarked   that: 
"For  404  years  Palestine  has  been  ruled  by  the  Turk,  and  during 
those  404  years  the  very  soil  of  Palestine  has  been  ruined,  the  very 
foundations  of  the  moral  stability  of  its  population  have  been  undermined ; 
and  it  is  your  task,  and  the  task  of  Britain  as  a  whole,  to  help  you  to 
restore  fruitfulness  to  the  soil  of  that  beautiful  country,  and  to  restore 
the  moral  fibre  and  the  moral  enthusiasm  of  all  sections  of  the  popu- 
lation who  dwell  in  that  beautiful  country." 
Lord  Balfour  referred  eloquently  to  the  three  great  diffi- 
culties which  must  be  surmounted  before  this  land  will  be  re- 
deemed : 
1.  "The  inevitable  difficulty  of  dealing  with  the  Arab  question  in 
Palestine."  2.  "That  the  critics  of  this  movement  may  not  shelter  them- 
selves behind  the  principle  of  self-determination,  and  which,  of  course, 
would  end  the  protectorate  of  Great  Britain  ^in  that  country."  3.  "The 
difficulty  in  the  physical  conditions  of  Palestine." 
"How  can  that  small  country  become  an  adequate  home  for  the 
self  development  of  the  Jewish  people?  That  question  must  be  answered 
by  the  skill,  knowledge,  wealth,  and  determination  of  the  Jews  them- 
selves."   4.  "It  is  the  fact  that  only  idealists,  who  are  capable  of  putting

THE  JERUSALEM  OF  TODAY.  69 
their  dreams  into  actualities,  and  yet  retaining  the  depth  and  glory  of 
that  dream,  can  hope  to  succeed,  for  if  the  people  are  without  vision 
they  shall  perish." 
In  America  Jewish  enthusiasm  is  no  less  eager,  nor  are  their 
actual  efforts  less  fruitful  of  results  than  they  are  in  England  and 
Europe. 
Among  the  recent  news  items  we  find  the  following: 
"Dr.  Weismann,  Palestine  expert,  comes  over  from  London  in  Feb- 
ruary, going  first  to  Canada  on  January  30,  to  attend  the  Convention  of 
Canadian  Zionist  Societies.  New  Jersey  raised  $500,000  within  the  last 
month  and  incorporated  The  Palestine  Development  Company  to  relieve 
the  housing  shortage  in  Palestine.  The  money  is  to  be  lent  to  Palestiniens 
on  the  easy  monthly  payment  plan  with  a  six  percent  interest.  The  com- 
pany will  send  an  agent  in  March  over  to  Jerusalem  to  take  charge  of 
the  work.  The  officers  of  the  company  are  the  wealthy  wholesalers  in 
'  groceries,  beef,  phonographs,  real  estate,  and  in  the  Perth  Amboy  Trust 
Company,  New  Jersey." 
We  are  told,  in  the  Liverpool  Journal  of  Commerce,  that : 
"Palestine  having  now  obtained  that  racial  peace  and  protection, 
under  the  strong,  just  arm  of  England,  which  is  essential  to  the  indus- 
trial development  of  any  country,  all  classes  and  nationalities  are  settling 
down  to  attend  to  business.  The  possibilities  of  fruit  and  vegetable  and, 
to  a  certain  extent,  cereal  growing,  are  limitless  when  the  waters  of  the 
Upper  Jordan  are  utilized  for  irrigation  and  power  production.  The 
population  may  be  roughly  taken  as  consisting  of  Syrians,  Jews,  and 
Bedouin.  The  Jew  has  never  been  parasitical  from  choice,  and,  given 
the  opportunity,  he  excels  in  any  trade  or  profession.  The  various 
nationalities  are  to  a  great  extent  necessarily  interdependent.  The  Jewish 
poor  are  not  keen  on  domestic  service — they  prefer  factory  work.  Thus 
the  assistance  of  the  Syrian  of  that  class  is  necessary.  To  quote  one 
example :  for  hard,  manual  labor,  in  the  fields  or  at  the  ports,  the  Bedouin 
from  the  Eastern  desert,  when  he  wants  money  to  buy  camels,  wives,  and 
such  things,  is  willing  to  provide  unskilled  labor,  and  a  good,  hard 
worker  he  is." 
Suffrage  has  been  granted  to  the  Jews  under  various  re- 
strictions. Most  of  them  having  to  do  with  age,  residence  in  the 
country  and  education.  There  is  some  difficulty  in  Palestine 
between  the  orthodox  and  unorthodox  Jews,  but  this  will  adjust 
itself  in  due  time. 
Educationally  the  Jews  are  advancing  rapidly.  The  school 
report  in  1919  and  1920  shows  as  follows : 
1919  1920 
"Kindergartens    
 32  36 
Public  Schools   
 46  48 
Music  Schools     3  4 
Secondary  Schools    8  8 
"Total    
 89  96 
"Altogether  there  are  128  schools  numbering  12,740  pupils  and  564 
teachers.     Eighty  percent  of  the  Jewish  children  are  now  educated  in  He-

70  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
brew  schools,  and  the  other  twenty  per  cent  attend  either  Jewish  schools 
not  supervised  by  the  Education  Department  of  the  Zionist  Commission, 
and  in  which  Hebrew  is  not  the  language  of  instructions,  or  schools  con- 
ducted by  Missionary  societies." 
An  effort  is  being  made  to  raise  funds  for  the  development 
of  Young  Judea,  or  the  youthful  classes  of  American  Jews. 
There  is  also  a  Woman's  League  of  the  United  Synagogue. 
The  Convention  of  young  Judea  was  held  in  December,  in  Phila- 
delphia, and  they  had  over  one  hundred  delegates  present  from 
New  York,  New  England,  Washington,  Baltimore  and  Chicago. 
We  may  thus  look  forward  with  joy  and  anticipation  to  the 
rapid  habitation  and  rebuilding  of  Palestine. 
Our  scriptures  are  full  of  the  promises  concerning  Zion  and 
Jerusalem.  The  Old  Testament  teems  with  references  to  the 
combined  prophecies.  Isaiah  declares,  among  many  other  sayings, 
"Zion  that  bringest  good  tidings,  get  thee  up  into  the  high  moun- 
tains ;  O  Jerusalem,  that  bringest  good  tidings,  lift  up  thy  voice 
with  strength;  lift  it  up,  be  not  afraid;  say  unto  the  cities  of 
Judah,  Behold  your  God!" 
The  Prophet  Joseph  says  in  the  inspired  prayer  which 
was  written  for  the  dedication  of  the  Kirtland  Temple,  May  27, 
1836: 
"Thou  knowest  thou  hast  a  great  love  for  the  children  of 
Jacob,  who  have  been  scattered  upon  the  mountains,  for  a  long 
time,  in  a  cloudy  and  dark  day ;  we  therefore  ask  thee  to  have 
mercy  upon  the  children  of  Jacob,  that  Jerusalem  from  this 
hour  may  begin  to  be  redeemed,  and  the  yoke  of  bondage  broken 
off  from  the  house  of  David,  and  the  children  of  Judah  may 
begin  to  return  to  the  lands  which  thou  didst  give  to  Abraham, 
their  father."  (Sec.  109,  Doc.  and  Cov.) 
Zion  is  here  where  Isaiah  saw  it  in  vision,  "in  the  tops  of 
the  high  mountains."  And  Jerusalem  has  been  steadily  prepared 
for  the  great  events  which  are  there  taking  place.  The  Jews  be- 
gan their  migrations  shortly  after  this  prayer  was  uttered.  Not 
until  today,  however,  are  the  Jews  ready,  through  the  liberal 
policy  of  America  and  Great  Britain  in  the  recent  past  years,  to 
send  trained  engineers,  educators,  physicians,  and  publicists  to 
make  "her  paths  straight,"  and  to  scientifically  "build  up  the 
waste  places." 
This  Magazine  will  carry  a  department  headed  "From  Zion 
to  Jerusalem,"  to  be  edited  by  a  grand-daughter  of  Orson  Hyde, 
which  will  summarize  from  month  to  month,  the  wonderful  devel- 
opments in  Palestine.  Thus,  in  our  own  way,  we  will  cast  out  our 
lines  from  Zion  to  Jerusalem,  and  watch  and  pray  till  He  comes 
whose  right  it  is  to  rule,  and  reign  from  the  rivers  to  the  ends  of 
the  earth.

THE  JERUSALEM  OF  TODAY. 
71 
'    MADAME    LYDIA   VON    F.    MOUNTFORD 
Madame  Lydia  von  F.  Mountford. 
In  connection  with  the  rebuilding  of  Judea,  our  minds 
naturally  go  out  to  the  great  lecturer  on  Jerusalem,  Mme.  Mount- 
ford  who  died  on  the  22nd  of  March,  1917,  in  Lakeland,  Florida, 
while  engaged  in  giving  her  course  of  oriental  lectures.  Our 
readers  will  be  interested,  in  hearing  something  about  the  woman 
who  brought  so  much  light  and  inspiration  to  us  in  these  lectures, 
delivered  twenty- five  years  ago,  in  this  city. 
Madame  Mountford  came  to  Salt  Lake  City  in  February, 
1897,  and  again  in  1912,  and  gave  a  lecture  in  one  of  the  Chris- 
tian churches,  which  was  heard  by  Dr.  James  E.  Tal- 
mage,  who  was  president  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  Uni- 
versity at  the  time.  He  was  so  impressed  with  the  won- 
der and  beauty  of  her  work  that  arrangements  were  made  for  her
