NOTES AND NEWS.
	An Athens, Georgia, prophet, says we are to
have a wonderful crop this year, but for the
next three years, there will be the most dis-
astrous famine known.
	In South Australia, women are made eli-
gible for election as members of what are call-
ed Boards of Advise, similar to School Boards.
At the recent election both candidates declared
for women suffrage. The successful candidate
is a member of the labor party, which has
avowed for equal suffrage.
	Judge Caldwell, of the Eighth United States
Circuit, has again appointed a woman to the
position of clerk of the United States Circuit
Court. Miss Adelaide Utter has been deputy
at Kansas City for several years and now on
the death of the clerk, Mr. Walton, is appoint-
ed, to the responsible position.
	THERE is a community in the vicinity of
Dublin, Georgia, that lately whipped severely
three bad women that were in their midst.
Some pertinent questions might be asked.
How does anybody know they are bad women?
What and who made them bad? Do they whip
bad men there? Could these women-whippers
stand the test applied by Jesus, "Let him that
is without sin cast the first stone?"--Ex.

   The Woman's World of New Orleans,
Louisiana, is taking an enforced recess because
of the burning of the plant in the great Canal
Street fire in February. The editor, Miss M.
A. E. Farwell, has been a severe sufferer from
illness, but hopes to have her paper out this
month. It is her main object to help the work-
ing women to more equal wages, and it should
be cordially supported. A little help just now
will be doubly valuable as an encouraging
offset to many difficulties.--Ex. 

   The beautiful crayon portrait of Rev. Anna
Shaw, made by Lillian Moore Candlin, form-
erly of Nebraska,but now of Wilmette, Ill.,and
presented by the Nebraska Woman Suffrage
Association to the Wimodaughsis Fair was not
sold on that occasion, but was afterwards pur-
chased by Mrs. Colby, President of the Ne-
braska W. S. A., to be given on behalf of the
Association to the National American W. S. A. 
of which Miss Shaw is the Vice-president. It
will hereafter adorn the walls of the Suffrage
Parlors at 1428. I St.
	While discussing the appointment of Army
Officers as Indian Agents, Senator Hawley
made the following statements:
   "Under this arrangement you would not
have the services of a multitude of good wom-
en from among the best women in the whole
United States. I think I heard the other day
some one remark rather slightingly of them.
The best women of the United States have
associated themselves with this matter. They
are sentimental, if you choose, and religiously
sentimental, but they do know something about
their business, for many of them have lived
among the Indians and dealt with them, and
they show a practical wisdom in the manner
in which they deal with them."

