EDITORIAL NOTES.

	"A DICTIONARY of the Book of Mormon" by
Elder George Reynolds, is one of the most useful
new books brought out for some time. It is a fact
that of late years there has been a greater interest
manifested, by our young people particularly, in
the Book of Mormon, and this Dictionary will be
very helpful in the study of the history or record
of the former inhabitants of this country. It con-
tains the names of persons of importance men-
tioned in the Book of Mormon, together with much
other interesting matter in detail, and cannot fail
in accomplishing great good for those who are
desirous of obtaining a more thorough and com-
prehensive knowledge of the Latter-day work
established in the last dispensation by the Prophet
Joseph Smith. This book makes plain some sub-
jects that in reading one might not comprehend so
clearly. It is also a reference book for students
of theological matters. For sale at Parry's book
store, price $1.25.
	We have received from the author, Col. Juan
Lewis, a handsomely bound copy of his "Poems."
—The full title "The Forging of the Sword and
Other Poems by Juan Lewis, Illustrated by
Charles Bradford Hudson." As a whole it is a
dainty volume, quite original in make up and the
poems are some of them quaint and idealistic;
others are strong and deep, and the love poems
are quite emotional, and tender in the extreme.
There is considerable variety in the book which
always makes poetry more entertaining, than
when there is a sort of sameness, as is often the
case. The book throughout gives one a very
good idea of the author, of his originality and
sentiment, his love of domestic enjoyment and
his enthusiastic devotion to his country. Col.
Lewis has been a newspaper, as well as an army
man and is therefore well acquainted with diver-
sification in life. He has written some interesting
serial stories, and a novel quite highly praised
entitled, "Trust Her Not." In journalism his
style is brief, sharp and crisp, in fact one may say
he has the modern style of dealing with matters
and things, and is wide awake on political ques-
tions. Price of the book, Cloth in all colors (full
gilt) $2.00—Leather (all gilt) $4.00.


