WORLD’S FAIR NOTES.
				———
	Denmark has made a World’s Fair appro-
priation of $67,000.
	More than 180 exhibitors are chronicled
from Philadelphia alone.
	A $6,000 monument of Barre granite will
be one of the exhibits from Vermont.
	New York has made a World’s Fair appro-
priation of $300,000.
	Saginaw, Mich., noted as a salt producing
city, is constructing in miniature a complete
salt plant for exhibition at the World’s Fair.
	The cottage in which George Fox, the
founder of the  Society of Friends or Quakers,
was born, in Leicestershire, England, is being
taken down to be re-erected in Chicago.
	The New York Assembly has voted per-
mission for the raising of one or two old sunk-
en vessels in Lake George for the purpose of 
sending them as relics to the Fair.
	Several of the states are having prepared fine
lithographs of the buildings which they will
erect at the World’s Fair, and through the
sale of them are augmenting their amounts
available for building purposes.
	Pope Leo XIII has written a letter strongly
commending the Exposition, which it is be-
lieved will have a most favorable effect in
stimulating interest in the Fair on the part of 
all Catholic countries and communities.
	A feature of Idaho’s Exhibit at the Fair
will be a practical illustration of the system
and benefits of irrigation. A large section of
sage brush soil will be transported to Chicago.
Through this ditches will be run, and trees,
fruits and flowers will be grown in the soil by
the irrigation system. Prospective Idaho set-
tlers are expected to be especially attracted by
this exhibit.
	The “San Francisco Women's California
Book Exhibit for the World’s Fair,” is the 
name of a society recently organized in San
Francisco. The object of the society is to col-
lect a complete library of books by California
writers, files of papers, scrap-books, scattered
papers and sketches worthy of preservation.
These will be taken to Chicago and exhibited
during the Fair. After the Exposition the col-
lection will be given to the Golden Gate Park
Museum.
	The Board of Lady Managers is making
arrangements for an extensive exhibit showing
woman’s share in the illustration of books, in 
engraving and other forms of picture produc-
tion. During her recent visit to New York Mrs.
Palmer consulted with a number of publishers
and received considerable assistance from
them. A list of distinguished woman illustra-
tors was secured and plans set on foot to obtain
old volumes and manuscripts illustrated by
woman, together with historical data concern-
ing woman’s share in this line of work from
ancient times down to the present.
	A circular has been issued by the committee 
of the Indiana Worlds’ Fair commission on ed-
ucation, art, charities and literature calling at-
tention to its work and asking co-operation in
preparing a creditable representation of the lit-
erary status of Indiana. The committee states
that it desires a tabulated list of authors and 
their works arranged in chronological order,


so as to present the literary devolopment of the
State from the time of its organization; a tab-
ulated list of Indiana journalists and journals,
including religious and secular publications;
a complete collection of books of reputable
character written by natives or citizens of
Indiana; all books written about Indiana, its
resources and people; a complete collection of
photographs of Indiana’s authors and journal-
ists, and photographs representing the homes
of such authors, and a collection of photo-
graphs of club houses and the interiors of club-
rooms.


