[Column 2]

speak disrespectfully of Sir Edward he's given
your wife a good penny, and here's cousin
Judith his own aunt, who needs help, in her
declining years only a paltry thousand,and his
cousins a bare pittance, and all that lot to some
fine fellow nobody knows who,—what's the
name? I can't remember and who is he any-
how?" That was what they all wanted to know,
and that was the mastery. Neither the lawyer
or the Doctor ventured a word on the subject
and the conversation turned upon the weather
and other topics, and finally the ladies rose
and left the room.
	After the ladies left the table Squire Brook-
land made bold to speak, he had been imbib-
ing some of his relative's old wine, and was
particularly loquacious, he addressed himself
to Burke the family solicitor who had only
condescended to reply to any question by yes
and no.
	"Mr. Burke would you mind telling us who
this stranger is to whom the Baronet has left so
much money, and who is hereafter to take the
name Hilliard, and live in England? Is he a
distant relation or the son of some old friend?"
	"Don't know, never inquired into the matter,
didn't think it was a part of my business."
That was all the answer, and soon after the
gentlemen left the dining hall, and Mr.
Burke announced to the Dr. his intention of
going up to London immediately. The two
withdrew into the Baronet's library, or rather
his "den or smoking room," it was not much of
a library, for he seldom read anything except
sporting news, and there they had a long con-
ference together. "Its going to make a terrible
stir this affair of leaving so much money to
that foreign woman's son,and how his daughter
will take it when she comes to know all I am at
a loss to understand" said Burke in his quiet
way, but so it is and so it must be."
	"We are in no way answerable" the Dr. re-
plied, "and it is no doubt right,a reparation to
be made, to one unjustly treated in his life-
time—the woman who should have been his
wife, and mistress here; what surprises me
most is that he never told his niece, she's a
most sensible young woman."
	"Perhaps he has;" suggested Burke, "she
may be in the secret, but she seems unapproach-
able, however it does not matter, Lady Anna
is the only consideration, her claim to the name
is indisputable, and she may object to this in-
terloper bearing the name, it would be strange
if she were to acquiesce quietly."
	"Better that than have the case go into the
Courts, and a public scandal, and you ought
to tell her so Burke." "But if she don't
speak how are we to know, she looked like a
statue today, pale and cold, yet you say her
color mounted high when she heard that name,
she had never heard of his existence then I'm
quite sure. And Miss Conway I did not
venture to look at. Its a queer affair altogether
a man of the world like Sir Edward who never
seemed to have any love for his own child, born
in lawful wedlock, to leave all that money and
heritage to one unheard of, he must have had
some affection for this woman, or a strong sense
of justice, or a tenderer conscience than most
men."
	And so the two men talked on, the Dr. never
betraying in the least his love for Miss Conway
but he wished in his inmost heart she had not
been left so independent in the will, yet he
felt it was right, but as he was guardian of
Miss Hilliard, and her cousin was to have
charge of her until she was of age, his oppor-
tunities would be favorable to his suit. All
this he recognized and it reconciled him in a
way, and still he was anxious now that he had
declared himself to Miss C.— to have a promise
and in fact to make her his wife. It was quite
in keeping with the man, he had plenty, he
pursued his profession more from love of the
work and of his fellow men than from any

