PERSIS S. RICHARDS.
DEAR SISTER:
	On the 15th of March. 1892 by invitation of
Sister H. Y. Brown I went to her house and
met other sisters there in honor of the birthday
of her mother, Sister Persis S. Richards, who
reached the ripe age of eighty-six years.
Though feeble in body she has a strong will,
and is very industrious; a great lover of plants
and flowers and at the present time they afford
her much pleasure in tending and caring for
them.
	She is conversant upon subjects of interest
abroad; and takes pains to read the important
changes taking place among the people she
identified herself with in the early days of the
Church. She often speaks of her early asso-
ciations with Sister E. R. Snow, Presendia
L. Kimball and Zina D. H. Young. The 
letters she has received from them of late years
are most precious to her.
	Not being able to meet with us to celebrate
the 17th of March, she wrote a few sentiments
and testified to the divinity of the mission of
the Prophet Joseph Smith with whom she was 
personally acquainted.
	She has endeared herself to me through that
sisterly love which characterizes the true
Saint. I write these few lines as a tribute of the 
retpect to her. If you deem proper to record 
them in the EXPONENT it will oblige more 
than one of us.
	With kindest regards yours truly,
	HARRIET D. BUNTING.
Kanab, March 26, 1892.	
	RACHEL WHIPPLE.
On the 10th day of March was our beloved


President’s birthday, Sister Rachel Whipple,
she having held the office of 1st. Counselor
nine years and President fifteen years. She
was seventy-five years old, and has been ever
faithful in the discharge of her duties. We
met at two o’clock at the residence of Sister
Elizabeth Nebeker,. Meeting was opened with
singing and prayer, after which each of the
sisters bore testimony to her faithfulness and
the joy and happiness they had in being co-
laborers with each other in the Society.
	Counselors Jeremy and Nebeker met with
us and gave us good advice and encourage-
ment, also spoke of the respect and good feel-
ing they had for Pres. Whipple. Meeting then
closed with singing and prayer. The company
then sat down to a bounteous supper which
had been prepared by the teachers and friends.
We spent the evening in pleasant conversation
and was favored with some fine selections on
the piano by Miss Vilate Nebeker. We all
went home feeling we had spent a very
pleasant and profitable afternoon.
	A. Ridges, Sec. 22nd Ward.


