[Column 2]

face of this earth that will attract the attention of
the God of heaven and the heavenly host, it is the
one before us today—the assembling of this peo-
ple, the shout of "Hosanna," the laying of the top
stone of this temple in honor of God. My
brethren, sisters and friends, we want to finish
this Temple; we want to dedicate it unto God as
soon as we can, so that the vast host who dwell in
this region of country may go into it and attend
to the ordinances for their living and for their
dead. I hope we shall all lay this to heart and try
to furnish means so far as we can, in order that
the building may be speedily completed. We
are able, as a people, to do this. I realize that
there are many calls upon the Latter-day Saints
for the work and purposes of the Church and
kingdom of God upon the earth; but this work
now before us is a most important event—the
most important that we have upon our hands. I
well remember the day and the hour when this
first revelation for the redemption of our dead
was received by the mouth of the Prophet of God.
Who can comprehend this? Where is the man
or woman who can comprehend this principle,
that we have the power to go into these Temples
of our God and redeem our progenitors—our
fathers and our mothers, from whom we have de-
scended? They never heard the Gospel; they
never enjoyed the blessings which you and I have
in our day and time through the mercy of God.
We are their posterity. They are on the other
side of the vail, shut up in prison, and will remain
there until their sons and daughters go into these
holy places and redeem them, as Jesus went to
preach to the spirits in prison three days and three
nights, while His body lay in the tomb. Some
of them had laid there a long time—thousands of
years—up to the time when Christ was crucified
and His Spirit went to them in prison. 
	President Woodruff then proceeded to enlarge
upon the blessings enjoyed by the Latter-day
Saints in regard to their work in the Temples,
and said he rejoiced in the knowledge that the
Prophet Jospesh Smith, President Brigham Young,
Heber C. Kimball and others formerly associated
with them in this great latter-day work on the
earth were rejoicing today at what they saw and
heard. The shout of "Hosanna" would enter into
the presence of God and they would rejoice
thereat. So far as we carried out the purposes
which God had placed upon us, and the responsi-
bilities devolving upon us, when we got through
here we should have the privilege on the morning
of the resurrection of sitting down with Abraham
Isaac and Jacob, and those of our relatives who
had already passed away in the family organiza-
tion of the celestial world for ever and ever.
	The choir sang

		The Temple Anthem.
	Benediction by President George Q. Cannon.
	At the close of the services in the Tabernacle,
the priesthood arranged in procession in their
proper order and under the superintendency of
Bishop John R. Winder, marched to the grounds
adjoining the Temple.
	On a stand at the South West corner of the
Temple, were the First Presidency of the Church
Wilford Woodruff, George Q. Cannon and Joseph
F. Smith, of the Apostles, President Lorenzo
Snow, Franklin D. Richards, Moses Thatcher,
Francis M. Lyman, John H. Smith, Heber J.
Grant, John W. Taylor, Mariner W. Merrill,
Anthon A. Lund and Abraham H. Cannon.
Patriarch to the Church John Smith. There were
also six of the seven Presidents of Seventies and
the Presiding Bishopric, Presidents of Stakes and
their Counselors. There were reporters tables
also where the Deseret News reporters and those
for other papers were seated. The platform was
elevated about eight feet above the ground, and
was decorated with the national colors; to the left
was a platform occupied by the Tabernacle choir

[Column 3]

and another stand also decorated with national
bunting, where stood the Conductor Evan
Stephens and an organ upon which Prof. Jos. J.
Daynes accompanied the music. Held's band
stood immediately East of the choir.
	The ceremonies began with the Capstone march
composed by Prof. C. J. Thomas and played by
Held's band. The Tabernacle choir sung the
hymn, composed for the occasion by C. L.
Walker,

	Glorious God, Eternal Father,
		In the name of Christ we pray
	Thou wilt bless us with Thy presence,
		While this crowning stone we lay;
	Let Thy favor rest upon it,
		Let Thy hand protect these tow'rs
	May Thy peace brood over this Temple,
		It is Thine, O Lord, not ours,
	It is Thine, it is Thine, it is Thine, O Lord, not ours.

	Glory, Glory, Hallelujah,
		Heav'n and earth and angels sing,
		Heav'n and earth and angels sing.
	Choirs celestial join the chorus. 
	Christ our King.
		Praise Him, Praise Him, Christ our King.

	Shout hosannas, shout hosannas,
		Glory be to God our head,
	For His everlasting mercies
		To the living and the dead;
	Joy now reigns where once was sadness
		'Midst the prison's dreadful gloom,
	Millions hail with joy and gladness
		Victory over hell and tomb!
	Victory, victory, victory over hell and tomb.
