RELIEF SOCIETY NOTES.

	[From the Record of the Relief Society kept in
Nauvoo, Ill.] These remarks were made by
Bishop Newel K. Whitney, (deceased) at a meet-
ing of the Relief Society May 27, 1842.
	"In the beginning God created man, male and
female, and bestowed upon man certain blessings
peculiar to a man of God, of which woman par-
took, so that without the woman all things cannot
be restored to the earth. It takes all to fully re-
store the Priesthood. This perfect restoration is
the intent of the society, that by humility and
faithfulness, in connection with their husbands,
they may be found worthy.
	"I rejoice while contemplating the blessings
which will be poured out on the heads of the
Saints. God has many precious things to bestow,
even to our astonishment, if we are faithful. I
say again I rejoice in the prospect before us. By
striving for union one with another, we may be
prepared for the day of choosing. Man will not
choose, but God will say who is and who is not
worthy. We must humble ourselves and live by
he rule given for practice—we must lose sight of


vain things and remember that the eye of God is
upon us. If we are striving to do right, although
we may err in judgement many times, yet we are
justified in the sight of God if we do the best we
can according to our judgement. We cannot go
astray if we will strive with all the energy of our
souls to do right. I rejoice that God has given us
means whereby we may receive intelligence and
instruction. It is our privilege to stand in an at-
titude to get testimony for ourselves. It is as
much our privilege as that of the ancient Saints.
We must "prove all things and hold fast that
which is good." It is our duty to humble our-
selves—it is our most reasonable service to do it.
We must proceed to receive grace for grace,
light and intelligence. If we have intelligence we
have power—intelligence is power. I desire all
evil things may be done away. But as far as
possible throw the vail of charity over failings.
When we see one out of the way, we ought in
humility to go and counsel—and strive to bring
back those who have strayed. We must do as we
would wish to be done by; this is the way to win
souls, and bring them back. Far be it from me
to harbor iniquity, and outbreaking sins. We
may have different views of things. Still there is
some criterion which all may come to and by
bringing our minds and wills into subjection to
the law of the Lord may come to a unity.
	It is impossible while finding fault with one
another to be united. Would to God I had power
to bridle my tongue, I am too apt to make re-
marks; have decided to set a double watch on my
tongue and not offend one of the little ones. I
wish nobody harm; wish it were in my power to
save all within the reach of mercy. Some may
say I have not been so faithful as I might have
been, or my voice would oftener have been heard
in the congregations of the Saints, but I rejoice
in God that all is as well with me as it is. I as-
sure you there are great blessings before you that
would astonish you if you could behold them. I
came here for the purpose of listening to Presi-
dent Smith and being instructed by him.
	"I wish to encourage you to persevere in the
ways of righteousness. There are great blessings
to be conferred as soon as our hearts are pre-
pared to receive them. You have my heart's de-
sire for the prosperity of the Society and I pray
my Heavenly Father that you may go on and
glorify your position."
