[Column 1]
JULIA A. ALLRED.
				—
EDITOR WOMAN’S EXPONENT:
	There appeared in a late issue of the Deseret
News a notice of the death of Sister Julia A.
Allred.  Now feeling that her long standing
in the Church, and the fact that she was a
member in Nauvoo of the first Relief Society
organized in the Church under the supervission
of the Prophet Joseph, and the firm stand she
has always maintained under trying circum-
stances, in defence of the truth, requires that
something more be said of her.  I ask space
to communicate a few incidents of her useful
although somewhat retired life.
	She was born in the town of Henderson,
Jefferson County, New York, on the 7th day
of February 1829. Her father’s family em-
braced the Gospel in the early rise of the
Church, and Elder Orson Pratt married her
eldest sister, the late Sarah M. Pratt.  She
went to Nauvoo in the year 1843 and on the
21st of December of that year she was married
[-]o Reddin A. Allred.
	She, with her husband received their en-
[--]wments and were sealed in the Nauvoo
Temple, and left Nauvoo early in the spring
of 1846, and came up with the advance camp
of Israel at Pisgah.  In the fall of 1851 she
went to Utah and the family located in Kays-
ward, Davis Co.
	In October 1852 her husband started on a
mission to the Sandwich Islands.  He was ab-
sent over three years, and none but those who
have passed through like experiences know
any thing about the hardships through which
she with her little ones passed in those long
years for the Gospel’s sake.
	I will here give a few lines of poetry that
her husband sent home to her while absent on
that mission; which she prized very highly.

		On the shore of the great Pacific sea,
		At times in silence I roam;
		While the sound of the mighty water's roar 
		As they beat upon the rocky shore
		And I think of my far-off home.
		The inmate of my little cot,
		They make it a lovely home;
		And were I free from laboring here,
		I would haste to those I love so dear
		In my Rocky Mountain home.

		One moment alone I dare not reflect
		On scenes so lovely to me,
		Lest darkness enshroud me and despair
		Cause me to neglect the truth I bear
		To nations amid the sea.
		Then first of all is the Kingdom of God,
		And things pertaining thereto:
		There joys eternally will remain,

