[Column 1]

to hear beforehand how each one of those far-
off relatives must be seated, and what defer-
ence must be paid to them, whereas she knew
they had only come in expectation of a share
in the estate which in her opinion rightfully
belonged to Lady Anna alone.
	On a damp, drizzly evening in February the
time set for the assembling of all the relatives
of the late deceased Baronet, the family were
seated in the long, low, old-style drawing-room
and solemn and grave was the expression of
each one, as though some sudden revelatiou
was to be made.
	The will was read—the executors named
therein were present and all was silent except
the sobs of the pale, fair girl whose father had
spoken of her as not yet of age, and left her
under the care and guardianship of a man she
had never known. She was stunned and be-
wildered, could not take in the situation, she
had fancied herself free except as her cousin
might advise and now she was utterly at a loss
to know what her obligations were.
	The whole company seemed under a spell,
everything proved so decidedly different to
what had been surmised beforehand. Mr.
Burke and Dr. Bland were the only ones who
seemed composed and equal to the situation.
	One looked at the other as though anxious to
know what the next movement of the play was
to be and as if it were not possible the act was
over, and yet all was silent—finally there was
a signal for rising and a servant announced
"dinner," and Mr. Burke lead the way with
Lady Anna to the dining hall, the Dr. took
Miss Conway, but waited for the guests who
were visiting there to precede them. Aunt
Judith leaned upon a cousin of her's who was
also distantly related to the Baronet, a man
of few words, whose views were strictly in ac-
cord with those of "Cousin Judith's," a thin,
angular sort of a person with weak eyes and
weaker intellect, Mr. Andrews, he had come
simply as a friend not expecting a penny,so he
had stated to Lady Anna distinctly, then fol-
lowed Mrs. Matilda Brookland and her hus-
band a country 'squire from Devonshire, and
her two daughters, Hannah and Susannah with
three half-grown boys, and one or two odd
cousins rather gentlemanly men from a dis-
tance of whose existence until their arrival
neither the family solicitor or the Dr. had
ever heard. This completed the group, and
Miss Conway not been in so serious a mood she
would have laughed outright as they filed in
and were seated at the table where a sumptuous
repast was waiting. They were all in the
deepest mourning garments, and their doleful
faces corresponded with their sombre wearing
apparel.
	A strange party they made indeed, and a
silent one too, there was little in common to be
shared except the Baronet's money and that
was sadly misappropriated according to their
ideas, better understood than expressed evi-
dently from the silence. Gradually the dinner
made them talkative as it generally does and
one and then another gave an opinion to the
next neighbor at table; they spoke low how-
ever, and seemed waiting for an opinion with
which to coincide.
	Finally Squire Brookland the brother in
law clearing his throat and raising his voice
so as to be heard by all present, addressing
himself to his wife said, "I say Matilda your
brother Edward had more money than appear-
ances indicate, but what a miserly life he's
been living all these years in this old place,
and now what'll come of it all, it'll be
swallowed up in lawsuits, aud precious little
good will come of it, not so shrewd a man by
half as I took him for, though it was very little
I ever knew about him anyway," and as he was
about finishing the remark, the cousin of aunt
Judith, Mr. Andrews, in a thin weak voice put
in "I say Squire I don't see why you should

