but the character of those labors, prompted as
they have been by the purest love, by kindness
and charity, such as only the female heart
under the influence of heavenly inspiration can
feel the importance of, excites the admiration
of every one in the least susceptible of divine
impulses; such as are only prompted by love of
God for fellow man.
	The introduction of the teachings of the
Prophet Joseph relating to that organization,
was a very interesting feature to all who were
favored with them; and it is possible a few of
the most important items might be more easily
remembered by isolating them from the gener-
al instructions such as the following;—
	“Women must assist in correcting the morals,
and strengthening the virtues of the com-
munity.”
	“Must be a select society, separate from the
evils of the world.”
	“The organization of the church more com- 
plete by organizing the women in the order of
the Priesthood.” 
	“Officers, if wanted, to be appointed and set
apart as Teachers, Deacons,&, among us.”
	“The Society is not only to relieve the poor
but to save souls.”
	“Women, if pure and innocent, can come
into the presence of God. Angels cannot be
restrained from being your associates.”
	Each of these quotations are a text a state-
ment of facts, sufficient for a sermon worthy the
eloquence and favor of divine inspiration. By
them, the present accepted field of woman’s
labor in the family is extended to the com-
munity. By them we learn that as woman is
the counterpart of man in all that is essential
to the perpetuity and welfare of the race, so is
the organization of this society in the church,
the counterpart to the Priesthood organization;
and as necessary to the completeness of that
organization, as woman was to man in his
creation. We are also informed that it is
woman’s legitimate sphere to labor for the sal-
vation of the souls of men, as well as to ad-
minister to the temporal wants, the necessities
and comfort of his person.
	As the increasing family demands the con-
stant care, and untiring physical and mental
efforts of the mother, while performing her
many duties to the needy and helpless circle
of her home, so the ever increasing family
of God’s children who coming from afar to
their Zion-home, may by this helpful organ-
zation receive the nurture and kindly admin-
stration so necessary to their growth and de-
velopment, and which these loving hearts and
generous hands are ever ready to impart to
those who are as comparatively helpless and
needy in their new-found-home, as the babe in
the home of its parents.
	The food that satisfies the hungry; the
garments that clothe the naked; the word of
consolation that comforts the afflicted; the
testimony that strengthens the faith of the
weak; the assurance that makes hope the
anchor of the soul, and those innumerable
kindly acts of charity that bespeak the love of
God, are all appropriate to, and come within
the sphere of woman’s love and duty.
	An appreciation of woman’s character and

[Column 3]
position was well expressed by the Poet who
asserts, that:-
	“ Heaven when it had created man,-
	Unfinished found creation’s plan, 
	Though men and angels were akin, 
	A chasm still appeared between, 
	Nor would the links together meet, 
	Till WOMAN made the chain complete."
	Indeed , it is through her, both by teaching
and by the sacred virtues embodied in her love,
that the love of God comes to man.
	Her love, in the kindly administrations con-
templated in this society organization, answers
to the feminine element of the world, as truly
as the stern demands of duty and obligation do
to the Masculine Forces associated with the
authority of priesthood, and is as necessary to
a perfect government, as woman was to man
when it was “not good for man to be alone.”
	These two blended together in the harmony
of their appointments, offer to the race of man
all that humanity can desire, the goal of hu-
man happiness, all that christianity can
impart.
	These lessons so forcibly impressed by the
Prophet, teach us that women should be
organized in their labors. That their organ-
zation makes that of the priesthood more
complete, consequently, is not perfect without 
them. That the society is not only to relieve
the poor, as a leading consideration, but must
assist in correcting morals, strengthening
virtue, and in saving souls. That woman’s
work is one that requires a living faith,
abounding with good works in the midst of the
community. A faith that will not only heal
the sick by prayer, but cleanse from those mor-
al diseases that afflict humanity, and be to man
what angels may be to them, ministers of peace,
light and love.
	This condition reached, it may well be said
that angels cannot be restrained from associat-
ing with women thus pure and innocent, nor
they from coming into the presence of God.


