[Column 2]

other motive, but now—there arose another
obstruction, this young fellow, what complica-
tions might there not be, and he would be
necessarily mixed up in the affair. Burke was
to come down from London again in a week,
before that time there would be more news
from the continent, and meanwhile he would
try his fortune with Miss Jane Conway for
good or ill, if he could induce her to speak on
the subject.
	Miss Conway was as much perplexed over
this new heir that had been mentioned in the
will as the others, but not nearly so much
astonished, for she had discovered in her talks
with her uncle that he was susceptible to the
"tender passion," and she had witnessed the
scene with Lady Walton and it had opened
her eyes considerably. She did not feel equal
to broaching the subject to her cousin Anna
though, and determined to wait for Anna to
speak on her own account; things must take
their course she felt, and now she wanted to be
more alone than it was possible with all these
people who had come to hear the will—and
who seemed quite at their ease in the house of
their deceased relative. Aunt Judith particu-
larly with her maid and all her traps kept
things in an uproar, for the maid was fond of
gossip, and the servants were talkative, and
Aunt Judith listened to the gossip from below
stairs reported with elaborations by her maid
and repeated it to Jane her neice wanting all
the explanations. Jane was discreet and never
enlightened her in the least, though she plied
her with numberless questions, about Anna's
sweetheart, and how cruelly he had been
treated etc. And in fact how it was she had
gained such a foothold with her uncle as to be
left almost equal with his own daughter in the
settlement of the estate, while Matilda who was
also his sister had only a small sum and her
children nothing. But Jane was impervious,
no amount of coaxing or wheedling would in-
duce her to say more than that, "she knew
nothing of her uncle's financial affairs." Lest
her cousin Anna should be persuaded to talk,
Jane cautioned her, telling her it was always
best to keep one's affairs from becoming public
property, and that these relatives cared little
except for what they were likely to get, "And
you know cousin Anna" she added, "uncle
Edward never invited them here, seldom men-
tioned their names, never to me but once, and
then not very respectfully, Aunt Matilda is
very well in her way,dignified and lady like but
not like her sister"—and she stopped short for
a sob in her throat, it was seldom, indeed she
ever spoke of her mother, the memory was too
sacred.
	"I remember Aunt Helen when I was very
young" said Anna, "the prettiest picture in my
mind of all the ladies I have ever seen, it is
almost like a dream, so sweet-mannered and
gentle—and so inexpressibly beautiful, and
papa loved her very much I am sure," by this
time Jane was sobbing outright and Anna's
tears were falling out of pure sympathy for
her cousin; when Jane grew more calm her
cousin said, "although you are an orphan you
have the remembrance of a home, with father
and mother while I have never known a
mother's love, that is something to cherish,"
and she paused, as if unwilling to add more,
but Jane knew well what was in her heart;—
that her father had been almost like a stranger
and her home anything but homelike. "We
shall be all in all to each other from this time
Anna, and though there will be many changes
in our life here, yet we have sufficient to live
upon and to travel, we can go abroad, and see
the world, and that will make up some losses,
we have had." "No cousin Jane" said Anna
now warming  to the subject, "I will not go
abroad or anywhere until I know what my
fate is to be, I mean what Maitland will do.
I must see him this separation and suspense is


most trying, you do not know Jane, you have
never loved, and you cannot possibly feel for
me, or know what I suffer."


