CEREMONIES.

	The sixty-second Conference now just passed
has been a very important one in the history of
the Church and exceedingly interesting to every
Latter-day Saint. Commencing on Sunday April
3, the services have been calculated to inspire the
people with testimonies of the truth of the Latter-
day work and urge them to practise every virtue
that will make their lives more useful, and to
lift them to a higher and better standard of excellence
here, and create union, and prepare them for the
exaltation to which the righteous may attain
through faithfulness and the love of God. The
congregations have been very large and the
speakers have been greatly blest with the Holy
Spirit which has been abundantly poured out
upon the assembled multitudes.
	President Wilford Woodruff though suffering
from a severe cold has spoken with great power
and earnestness and Pres. Geo. Q. Cannon, Pres.
Jos. F. Smith, Pres. Lorenzo Snow, Apostles
Franklin D. Richards, Moses Thatcher, F. M.
Lyman, John Henry Smith, John W. Taylor, H.
J. Grant, Mariner W. Merrill, Anthon H. Lund,
and Abraham H. Cannon, also Elder B. H.
Roberts, Pres. A. O. Smoot and Elder John
Morgan, addressed the people in the same
earnest and impressive manner, and the Confer-
ence altogether was very significant of the great
work now rapidly progressing.
	 Wednesday April 6th, was the grandest day of
the Conference. The priesthood in their general
quorums according to their order occupied the
stands and main part of the Tabernacle; the peo-
ple filling up the remainder—the east end of the
lower part of the hall and galleries, crowds of
people, an immense multitude filled the doorways
and the yard around. After the morning exer-
cises the meeting was addressed by President
Cannon in response to a resolution that had been
offered during the Conference and Pres. Lorenzo
Snow instructed the assembly as to the order of
the ceremony of laying the capstone of the
Temple, and the shouting of the Hosanna to be
uttered on or after the laying of the capstone, said
the words of the shout were introduced by Presi-
dent Joseph Smith at the Kirtland Temple and
were there used at a solemn assemblage where
the Spirit of God was manifested and the vision
of the Almighty opened up to the brethren. "This
is no ordinary order, but is and we wish it to be
distinctly understood—a sacred shout and em-
ployed only on extraordinary occasions like the
one now before us." Pres. Snow made other re-
marks and then proceeded to give the idea and
the people joined in the hosanna shout, the effect
of which thrilled the hearts of those present.

