[Vol30 | January 1943 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Suggestive Program for]
Suggestive Program for Sunday Evening, March 7, 1943
IN a letter dated April 26, 1942, the First Presidency designated the evening meeting of Fast Sundays for use by the auxiliary organizations. At a meeting of the general executives of the auxiliaries, the Fast Sunday evening meetings of November and March were assigned to Relief Society. Ward Relief Society presidents may therefore consult their respective bishops and ask for permission to arrange for a Relief Society meeting on the evening of March 7, 1943. This is a very favorable Sunday on which to present a Relief Society program, coming as it does on the first Sunday of Relief Society anniversary month. The General Board submits the following suggestive program for use on this evening. Wards desiring to plan their own programs are at liberty to do so. Much of the material for the suggested program is drawn from The American Citizens Handbook recommended for use in the social science course, "What 'America' Means." The objective of the program is to show that the cause of freedom is the cause of Christ. Democracy finds its fullest expression in the roots of religion, which has ever emphasized the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man. For democracy to reach its highest fruition, our society must include that larger liberty preached so eloquently by the Hebrew prophets and by Jesus. (American Citizens Handbook, page 16.) As planned, the program will honor the boys in the service, their parents, wives, and children. It is suggested that seats be reserved at the meeting for the honored families and that Relief Society presidents consult their respective bishops concerning a display of pictures of ward members who are now in the service, if such pictures are not already on display in the chapel. The flag of our nation should also be prominently displayed. Mimeographed copies of the program for use by the audience would add greatly to the success of the program. In order to insure a large attendance, it is recommended that visiting teachers on their regular February visits invite all ward members to be present at this meeting and that advance announcements of this meeting be made in Relief Society and other ward gatherings. Relief Society members should particularly be urged to attend. The patriotic theme of the program is timely and should appeal to all, both old and young. The program will be more effective if regular ward announcements to be made at the meeting are made preliminary to its presentation.
 JANUARY 1943
NOTES TO THE FIELD
I. II. III. IV. V. VI. VII. VIII. IX. X. XI. XII. XIII. XIV. XV.
39
Program America, A Christian Nation Latter-day Saint Concept of the Present Crisis
Opening Remarks (five minutes)Member of Relief Society Presidency. Hymn: "America"Congregation. Invocation. Musical Selection. ForewordA Young Woman. Talk: "The American Way of Life is the Christian Way of Life." (10 minutes)Member of Melchizedek Priesthood. America is great because of the ideals which the pioneers established for its homes, for its schools, and for its democratic community lifeThe American Citizens Handbook, p. 6. Singing: "Recessional," by DeKovenRelief Society Singing Mothers. Talk: "Our Church Stands Ever Ready to Defend the Cause of Freedom." (10 minutes)Relief Society Officer or Member. We wield not the bloody sword of man, brutal with conquest and drunk with power, but the white sword of God, flaming with His truth and healing while it slaysFrom "Credo," The American Citizens Handbook, p. 71. Reading: "Credo" by Elias Lieberman, The American Citizens Handbook, pages 70-71Soldier (if available). Singing: Patriotic NumberRelief Society Singing Mothers. Talk: "Our Boys As Missionary-Soldiers." (5 minutes)A Young Woman. I want every Latter-day Saint soldier to get down on his knees and pray God to help him to lead a clean life, and to preach the Gospel while he is in the Army.Pres. Heber J. Grant, "Conference Address," October 5, 1941. It grieves me deeply that it is necessary for thousands of our boys to go into the army. I hope and pray that they will go out with the missionary spirit, maintain their ideals, and come back to us as sweet and clean as when they went away.Pres. Heber J. Grant, "Conference Address," April 1942. "Our Flag" (short tribute)Boy Scout. Singing: "Star Spangled Banner"Congregation. ConclusionA Young Woman. America first, not merely in matters material, but in things of the spiritThe American Citizens Handbook, p. 61. Benediction.
Suggestions for Presenting the Program
The above program may be presented with or without special scenic and lighting effects and with or without special costumes according to the facilities of the various wards. The opening remarks by a member of the ward Relief Society presidency should briefly welcome those in attendance, point out the theme and objective of the program and explain that it is the outgrowth of one of the Relief Society courses of study of the past year, "What 'America' Means." She should also announce that the families of ward members who are in the service are being honored, giving the number of ward members who are in the service. It is suggested that the person who offers the invocation be advised in advance that the theme of the program is patriotic. The foreword to be given by a young woman (in patriotic costume if desired) is adapted from "You, at This Moment," The American Citizens Handbook, page 4, as follows: You, at this moment, have the honor to belong to a generation whose lips have been touched by fire. The human race now passes through one of its greatest crises. New ideas, new issues, a new call for men to carry on the work of righteousnessall these have come and are daily coming to you.
When you are old, however, memory brings back this moment to your minds, let it be able to say to you "That was a great moment."
This country in its crisis called for men and women of faith in God, of patience in service, of charity and of insight. I responded to the call however best I could. I gave myself to the Master, to the cause of humane and brave living. For the talk "The American Way of Life is the Christian Way of Life," see The American Citizens Handbook, page 6, et passim; also an address by Elder Stephen L Richards, Deseret News, Church Edition, June 6, 1942. The following excerpts from the address by Elder Richards are particularly appropriate for use in this talk: This is a Christian nation.
America had its inception in Christian principles and doctrines; it was founded, nurtured and built by Christian men and women, Christian concepts have been incorporated into its basic laws and institutions and its loftiest ideals and purposes are but the expression of Christian virtue. We hear a lot of talk nowadays about the American way of life.
What is this American way of life? Is it anything other than the Christian way of life? If it differs essentially, if it contemplates something other than Christian liberty under law, then I'm not so enthusiastic to have my sons fight for it. I believe, however, that you will find on analysis that this American way of life we prize so highly is in reality a Christian concept....
Restraints are supposed to be imposed by self-discipline rather than exterior force.
People are free to make their own choices, endowed with a freedom that can be curtailed or limited only as may be necessary to assure the same freedom to all.... I make the assertion that we cannot hope to obtain that great spiritual support which we now so sorely need except upon the basis of truly Christian living. I think this to be so necessary because, as I interpret the issues at stake, we are really fighting a religious war. I think that our armies on the battlefields of the world and our civilian army here at home are really fighting to preserve the cause of Christ in the earth. I know they may not be conscious of such an objective. I wish they were.
Since this talk is to be followed by the singing of "Recessional," it would be well for the speaker to refer to what usually happens when men forget their dependence upon God. She might even quote from the "Recessional," saying that it is to be sung following her talk.
Following the rendition of the "Recessional," the talk "Our Church Stands Ever Ready to Preserve the Cause of Freedom," is presented. In this talk it is suggested that the speaker explain how our Church has always stood by our
 JANUARY 1943
NOTES TO THE FIELD
country in her hour of need.
Reference could be made to the Mormon Battalion and the history connected with it. At this point, someone in the background representing President Brigham Young might speak, first apparently addressing Captain Allen in these words: You shall have your battalion, Captain Allen, and if there are not young men enough we will take the old men, and if they are not enough we will take the women. Brigham Young might next appear to address members of the Mormon Battalion as follows: I want to say to every man, the constitution of the United States as framed by our Fathers was dictated, was revealed, was put into their hearts by the Almighty, and I tell you it is as good as ever I could ask for. I say unto you, magnify the laws.
There is no law in the United States or in the Constitution but I am ready to make honorable.
Following the statements by Brigham Young, the speaker might continue, pointing out that at the time of World War I, President Joseph F.
Smith said: I believe it is righteous and just for every people to defend their own lives and their own liberties, and their own homes, with the last drop of their blood. I believe that the Lord will sustain any people trying to preserve their wives and their children from the ravages of war. At the conclusion of the talk "Our Church Stands Ever Ready to Defend the Cause of Freedom," the "Credo" by Elias Lieberman, The American Citizens Handbook, pp. 70-71, would be very effective read by a soldier, if one is availablethis to be followed by a patriotic number from the Relief Society Singing Mothers. The talk "Our Boys As Missionary-Soldiers," to be given by a young woman, could explain what some of the ideals are that can be fostered in service men by the girls at home. The following brief excerpt from a letter recently written to a mother by her son who is serving his country overseas might be read: I wish it were possible to tell you in person how much I depend upon my Heavenly Father for guidance and inspiration; how each day the Gospel means more and more to me.
During these distressing times and periods of temptation the principles which you and father have taught me through deeds and words are always before me, and they serve as a real stabilizer. I feel I am able to be tolerant without compromising; to segregate the good from the evil, for I understand the source. Humbly I feel that through the help of the Lord and you dear ones at home I am able to be an influence for good. For the short tribute "Our Flag," which should precede the singing by the congregation of the "Star Spangled Banner," see the short article, "Respect the Flag," The American Citizens Handbook, p. 151.
During this tribute, the flag, which has been in evidence during the evening, might be spotlighted and an electric fan used to make it wave as the congregation sings our national anthem. At the conclusion of the singing, while the audience remains standing, the same young woman who gave the foreword should give the conclusion, as follows: America first, not merely in matters material, but in things of the spirit. Not merely in science, inventions, motors, and skyscrapers, but also in ideals, principles, and character. Not merely in the calm assertion of rights, but in the glad assumption of duties. No flaunting her strength as a giant, but bending in helpfulness over a sick and wounded world like a Good Samaritan.... Not in treading again the old, worn, bloody, pathway which ends inevitably in chaos and disaster, but in blazing a new trail along which, please God, other nations will follow, into the new Jerusalem where wars shall be no more.
Some day, some nation must take that pathunless we are to lapse into utter barbarismand that honor I covet for my beloved America. The American Citizens Handbook, p. 61. The speaker then looks heavenward as she voices this prayer by the poet Longfellow: Lord, let war's tempest cease, Fold the whole world in peace Under Thy wings.
Make all the nations one, All hearts beneath the sun. Till Thou shalt reign alone, Great King of Kings.
