[Vol30 | January 1943 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: All That Glitters First Wrathall]
family to be prepared the night before; a hot, cooked dinner in the evening after she came home from work. She could do the washing and ironing and clean the house on her day off. Really, it all seemed so simple. Even Aunt Bessie's lack of enthusiasm failed to dampen her spirits. "It would be different if you had to work, Emily," Aunt Bessie said. "If that were the case, I'd move right in and help you, if necessary. But I should think that with Jack working.... Well," she sighed, "all I hope is that I don't have one of my headaches on the days the children are here." She shook her head dolefully and went on, as Emily thought, "making mountains from molehills."
EMILY would never forget the day she brought home her first pay check. She sat down and kicked off her shoes to ease her burning feet while she tore open the envelope. Let's seenew linoleum should be the first thing to buy, and some crisp new curtains. And she did want to make a down payment on bed divan for the living room. That old couch was such an eyesore. Her pleasant reverie was broken as the screen door banged, and the twins came bouncing into the room. "Hi there, mom," cried Billy, "Isn't supper ready yet? Gee whiz, am I starved!" Billy was always hungry. He grabbed a piece of baker's bread from the box and stuffed it into his mouth. "Not so much slang, dear. Yes, I'll have it ready in a few minutes." Little needles shot up the backs of her legs as she bent her energy to the task. Goodness, it was getting late. "Say, mom," called Betty from the bathroom, where she was washing her hands, "Aunt Bessie said to tell
ALL THAT GLITTERS
you, of course we're welcome to stay there, but Billy'd have to do better. Know what he did?" She pointed an accusing soapy finger. "He put two toads in Aunt Bessie's goldfish bowlright in with the fish. 'Magine!" Betty set her lips self-righteously. "Yah, an' what if I did, ole Miss Smarty! And mom, know what she did?" Billy's voice was loud with scorn. "Kept coming in the house with her roller-skates onright on the linoleum Aunt Bessie'd just waxed. She said...." "Oh, children, stop it. Mother's too tired tonight. And Billy, get the broom and sweep up all that mud you dragged in. Betty, help mother set the table. And put away your school things. Oh, dear, Etta's not home from school yet, and it's nearly six." Her voice rose in strident irritation. She found herself wondering, a little grimly, if Aunt Bessie still could be heard to wish piously that the Almighty had seen fit to bless her with a family. They were half way through supper by the time Etta came in, tossing her sweater over a chair. Emily looked fondly at her daughter whose red-gold hair framed a piquant face with dancing brown eyes. Etta went at once to the kitchen mirror and began a careful inspection of her complexion. "Where've you been, Etta?" asked her father, abruptly emerging from his newspaper. "Over to Meryl's," answered Etta, patting her curls. "I ate supper over there." "You're supposed to be home when your mother comes. You should help out a little. And who is Meryl?" "We were practicing a song and
19
dance act for assembly. Meryl's so talented." She turned around, executing a dance step. "Meryl Sisom. You know, Mother." "Some new people who just moved into town. They live over in the old Jacobs' home," explained Emily. Jack grunted. "Humph. Well, you see that you bring Meryl or whoever she is over here to practice so you can help a little. And that's final!" He brought his fist down on the table with a bang. "Oh, all right," Etta pouted. "Mr. Sisom makes simply scads of money," she went on, with a side glance at her father. "Meryl has awfully smart clothes. She's getting a new chubby fur jacket. Wish I could," she sighed volubly. Jack paddled off to the living room in his stocking feet to finish his nap, muttering that the money some people were spending was ridiculous, and Emily began clearing the table. "Maybe we can manage the jacket later on," she said to Etta who was helping. "Now hurry, dear, you'll be late for Mutual. It's Tuesday night, you know." "Oh, I'm not going tonight," replied Etta, "Meryl doesn't want to join. She says the things they do at Mutual are childish."
AS the weeks hurried on and the tag ends of work from even Emily's careful planning began to pile up, she tried to grow accustomed to the lint which accumulated under the beds from her one "free day" a week to the next. She trained herself not to notice the pile of mending which grew steadily higher on the sewing machine, or the ironing which hung perennially on the clothes' rack. But by the time the short cold days of winter had set in, she began to worry about Betty's frequent colds.
Emily knew that Aunt Bessie, really the soul of kindness, nevertheless must have her house neat, and that often the twins played out-of-doors late on chilly afternoons with sweaters unbuttoned and caps left carelessly in the house. She tried to console herself with the knowledge that, as she always worked day shift, she was at home evenings to see that the children went to bed on time, with colds doctored if necessary. Somehow, she had ceased to talk over family troubles with her husband. By the time she had finished her almost endless evening tasks, he was usually asleep in his chair; or, if he was working night shift, he had to leave for work soon after she came home. And, like herself, he seemed too tired for much conversation. The few words they had for each other were merely moments snatched from seemingly more essential things. She would have liked to talk to him about the sealed note addressed to her which fell from Bill's overall pocket one night as she was hanging up the children's clothes. "Mrs. Merrill," it began, "if possible, will you please see that Billy gets some extra drill on his 'times tables' each evening? Otherwise, I may have to put him in a slower group.
Your cooperation will be greatly..." and signed with the teacher's name. A guilty flush spread over Emily's face. The afternoons and evenings of over half the season had slipped away, and Billy had gone joyfully on, his "times tables" cards, sent home earlier in the year, reposing in the cupboard drawer. It was only a few days later that the foreman, Mr. Walters, told Emily that she would have to work night shift for several weeks; he was short of experienced women for the night work. "It will mean that you'll have to see to getting the twins to bed," she told Etta, as they prepared supper. "Your father is on the afternoon shift, and I have to leave right after supper."
Etta didn't reply at first, but went on setting the table. "I've a chance to work evenings and Saturdays down at El Dansante Cafe, waiting on tables," she began at last. "Oh, but Etta," Emily's voice lifted in quick concern. "I don't want you to work down there. It'll be too hard on you. Anyway, I need you here at home." She forced her lips to smile.
Etta glanced curiously at her mother; and the older woman realized, with a pang, that her daughter suddenly seemed grown-up, an adult who faced her with alien eyes. "But Mother," replied Etta, "you don't stay home. Why should I?" In the end, Etta won her parents' grudging consent to take the job; the hours wouldn't be long, and the proprietor promised to see that the girls got home safely.
Emily prevailed upon Aunt Bessie to keep the twins at night, and for a while everything seemed to go smoothly again.
Emily couldn't remember, later, just when she first began to notice a change in Etta. It may have been the morning Jack told her that their daughter was staying at El Dansante to dance long after her work was finished. "I've spoken to her about it. But I'm to go on night shift myself, now, so you'd better remind her to get home early," he warned Emily. One afternoon, she was roused by
 JANUARY 1943
ALL THAT GLITTERS
the sound of Etta's and Meryl's voices in the kitchen. She glanced at the clock. Only two-thirty; they should still be in school. She frowned as she slid her feet into slippers and pulled her robe around her shoulders. It was hard enough to get a little rest, what with the essential housework lasting most of the forenoon. "How is it you two aren't in class?" she asked, opening the kitchen door. "Oh, we... That is, I... Got a call to go to work a little earlier," answered Etta lamely. "But Etta, you shouldn't miss school for any other work." Emily tried to keep the panic out of her voice. She realized, without knowing why, that this had happened before. "Oh, Mother, don't be silly." Etta's young face flushed with embarrassment. She glanced at her friend, who was watching with a little amused smile. "Well, let's not have it happen again." Emily turned back to the bedroom, suddenly conscious of her tousled hair and crumpled robe under Meryl's cool appraising eyes. Funny she'd never noticed before what a bold look the girl had, with frankly darkened lashes and too bright lipstick. It was later that same afternoon that she found Meryl's compact on the kitchen table. Only, as it sprang open in her hand, it contained not rouge and powder, but cigarettes. Etta, questioned about the matter, replied sulkily that she didn't know if Meryl smoked; it wasn't any of her business anyway, was it? The incident was crowded back in Emily's mind by the endless tide of work that pushed her on.
21
Then one Friday morning Emily was searching for her coat, getting ready to go home. She hummed a tune, thinking of what Mr. Walters, the foreman, had said as she left her work. "It's time for you to change back to day shift again Sunday, Mrs. Merrill. You've done so well, I want you to supervise the women workers.
Only thing, you may be 'frozen' to your job for the duration, and you'll have to take your turn at the night shift. But it'll mean an increase in pay. Let me know when you come back Sunday." Preoccupied, she was at first unaware of what the women on the other side of the rack were saying. "...Well, if Etta were my daughter, I'd never let her run around with that Meryl Sisom." "...Humph. I guess she's just as bad as the rest. Out all hours of the night. The whole crowd smoking and drinking, so I hear." The door banged after the women.
Emily stood clutching her coat, their words still ringing in her ears. Of course, it wasn't true! It couldn't be. Not Etta.
Then she remembered the cigarette case. The ride home in the crowded bus seemed endless. She found Jack in the kitchen, gloomily cooking his breakfast.
Emily sat down by the table and pushed back the stale dishes from last night's supper. If only she could stop shaking while she told him. He said nothing at first, and Emily thought that, oddly, he didn't seem surprised. "Well, Emily," he said gravely at last, "I don't know as I blame you for trying to earn a little extra.
Heaven knows you deserve it, after all your years of going without. But this old 'home ship' of ours needs a pilot at the helm. Go into the living room." "Go into... But what...?" "Just go on in. You'll see." He pushed back his chair and followed her. For the rest of her life Emily would remember the scenethe early light mottling the rug, the fur jacket flung carelessly on a chair, and on the new divan, the girl lying asleep, still fully clothed, her bright hair spilling over the dark cushions.
Emily opened her mouth, but no words came. Her feet were like lead as she walked across the room and bent down. She hadn't known how her knees were trembling until they gave way and she sank down on the edge of the divan. "Oh, Jack, Jack!" she sobbed, "she isn't...
That is, I thought...." "No, she isn't drunk," said Jack bluntly, "just given out from dancing at that fool place where she works. [ put-my coat over her when I came in from work. Now, don't cry, Emily, she's all right  so far, at least." He put his arm around her shoulders, and in an instant the aloofness of the past months vanished in their common bond of concern.
Then the rough gentleness in his voice gave way to sudden anger. "But I won't have it.
This is the end. No daughter of mine...."
Etta sat up, rubbing her eyes. "Gee, what's the matter? Say, I didn't intend to stay here all night." "All night!" Her father's voice exploded like a storm. "Don't worry, daughter. You haven't been here all night! Now just you listen to me." His angry words beat upon Etta's bowed head. But Emily, still dabbing at her eyes with her wadded handkerchief, had made up her mind at last. She had gone to the hall phone and dialed a number. "Hello, is this... Oh, all right.
Just give Mr.
Walters a message for me, please.
Tell him that Mrs. Emily Merrill will not be at work... Any more." > BEYOND THIS NIGHT Linnie Fisher Robinson - We toiled, beloved, to build a universe secure, Hoping for lasting peace, where we could turn To things of home; nor dreamed our sons should thus endure Days like those other ones we knew. But hate fires burn, Raging across the world; dreams fall apart Leaving but blackened ruins smoldering behind, Bringing despair to try the human heart And tear security from out the human mind. Yet counting all the sands our lives have known, Adding our joy when peace lay on the land, We can but say that life is good; we can but own That, through those storms, we knew that God was in command. Today, that candle, in this dark, shines bright For things our sons shall gather past the night! 
 JANUARY 1943
Psychological WarfareAn Invisible Weapon Mark K. Allen Psychologist, Utah State Training School WAR is fought today from three principal approaches: the economic, the military, and the psychological.
Economic warfare means "starvation for our enemies and food for our friends." It means keeping the enemy from obtaining from anywhere in the world the things he needs to live and to make war on usthe food, the iron, the fuel, and the other materials needed to make and operate a war machine. In an age of mechanization, this type of warfare is very important. In this type of warfare the economicthe Allies had the better of the argument in World War 1. But in this war, the Axis has already reduced through conquest this economic inequality. In the military phase of war, until recently, the Axis seems to have had a definite advantage, because of longer preparation, more thorough training, and a more definite military plan than was the case with the United Nations. Our present mobilization and arms production program, as well as mass air attacks on Axis war industries, are calculated to remove this advantage. The third type of warfarethe psychologicalmeans weakening the opponent through all sorts of tricks designed to confuse, to frighten, to discourage, to mislead, and to divide. It is "an offensive war waged with intellectual and emotional weapons to destroy the power of morale resistance in the enemy's army and civilian population and to diminish enemy prestige in the eyes of the neutrals." An Axis spokesman has said, speaking of psychological warfare, that "It is essential to attack the enemy nation in its weak spots, to undermine and break down its resistance, and to convince it that it is being deceived, misled, and.
Brought to destruction by its own government. 'Thus the people will lose confidence in the justice of its cause so that the political opposition in those nations will raise its head and become a more powerful trouble-maker. The enemy nation's originally solid, powerful, and well-knit fabric must be gradually disintegrated, broken down, rotted, so that it falls apart like a fungus treaded upon in a forest."
Psychological warfare consists of spreading rumors, false reports, threats, and fears of deadly secret weapons. The channels through which this type of warfare is prosecuted are short-wave radio, fifth column, and rumors planted by agents of the opponents and spread by people uncritically. The type of material spread usually has to do with the strength of the aggressor, the weakness of the defender, and the futility of resistance. An attempt is made to discredit the leaders of the opposing nations. In early stages of psychological warfare, a feeling of Page 23 easy complacency is encouraged by promises of non-aggression.
Psychological warfare is referred to today by news commentators as the "war of nerves," the "strategy of terror," "breaking down the home front," "demoralizing the enemy," and the "war of words," or propaganda.
With the stepping up of communications, especially the radio, psychological warfare has taken on a new significance in the present war.
There is nothing incomprehensible in this type of warfare, and every American should thoroughly understand it and realize how treacherously it can attack, even over many thousands of miles of land and sea. Let us, then, turn to the problem of psychological warfare as practiced against the Democracies, Freedom of ptess, of speech, and of assembly all censored or denied in totalitarian countries as a step in the psychological preparation of their own peoplein democratic countries provide fertile soil in which to wage psychological warfare. The Axis program has three principal aims: (1) to increase conflict and disunity among us; (2) to produce anxiety, fear, and confusion; and (3) to produce apathy and disillusionment.
Just as the Axis strategy on the battlefield is to divide and then to conquer, so on the psychological front every possible device is employed to promote disunity among us. The starting points are our own latent prejudices. A few of the most common possibilities are racial, religious, political, national, and economic class prejudices. The efforts of the enemies of this country to stir up racial hatreds are well known, and the nearer their claims fit our prejudices, the more they stir up strife and disunity among us.
Religious prejudices are easily aroused by propaganda, and political disunity is readily promoted.
Repeated attempts have been made to drive wedges between the United States and Great Britain by saying that "Britain always gets someone else to pull her chestnuts out of the fire." Likewise, Japan points out to China the futility of expecting continued help from allies who have so miserably "let her down in the past." Short-wave radio propaganda from nations at war with us has been particularly directed toward stirring up economic class hatred in America. One of the corner stones of this plan of conquest is the hope that America will collapse from within because of the failure to achieve class unity.
Labor is stirred up against capital, and capital against labor. Unfortunately, many people in this country are caught in this trap because of already established prejudices along this line of thinking, which, of course, invites propaganda of this character from the enemies of this country. The second general aim of psychological warfare, after divisions are fostered among the people, is to produce anxiety, fear, and confusion.
This is done through pointing out to the victim the invincibility of the aggressor. It consists of a strong military power intimidating a weaker one into submission. The weak are told of the fate of other victims, and are warned of a worse fate, and impressed with the futility of resistance. This "strategy of terror' has been one of the cruelest weapons of the aggressors. If weak peoples still resisted after due warning, their fate 

 JANUARY 1943 PSYCOLOGICAL WARFARE was as bad as promised and became a warning to the next victim.
Terror is spread by several devices.
Civilian bombing is perhaps the most dreadful.
Bombs are even made to scream to add to the terror.
Incendiaries and delayed-action bombs prolong and intensify the terror of mass raids. The threat of gas bombs has also been used to advantage.
Fear has been spread by such tricks as throwing images on the clouds with huge lantern-slide projectors. _ Little does a warring nation care whether its opponents are destroyed by bombs and shells or by psychological methods so long as they cease resistance.
Panic and a broken will to resist through actual combat or war work is the aim of the "strategy of terror." If psychological victories can be won, they are usually much less costly than actual military conquests. It is difficult to estimate how much aggressor armies and machines have been spared by psychological victories of the propaganda bureaus.
Confusion is spread by circulating all sorts of false news reports.
Reports from an opposing nation may say an attack will be made at a certain time at a certain place.
Then the place will be changed.
When sufficient confusion has been caused, an attack will be made at a wholly unexpected place.
Confusion makes organized resistance more difficult.
False reports have been circulated repeatedly in this war by nations whose armies were locked in close combat with those of other nations, often successfully dispersing and disorganizing the opposing forces. The third aim of psychological warfare is to promote apathy and disillusionment. The Axis nations have 25 been known to spread much propaganda about some great action, such as the move through the Balkans, then the talk would subside, then it would start up again and die down again. Finally, when everyone had become apathetic about it, they would strike.
Japan talked of arbitrating her difficulties with United States up until the very day the attack was made on Pearl Harbor. The Japanese have repeatedly tried to disillusion the people of the United States about the reliability of the reports given them from the Navy as to losses. Japan's technique is to announcesometimes accurately, but often notUnited States' naval losses several days in advance of the Navy's reports. In the battle of Java, 'in which United States losses were severe, Japan announced them with some accuracy many days before our reportthe aim being to make it appear to the people of this country that Japan forced the Navy to make admissions it otherwise would not have made.
People should constantly be on guard against this trick, remembering how important it. Is for our Navy to avoid giving information to opposing nations.
Another plan is to announce several days in advance the capture of a certain city which is quite sure to be taken later.
This forces a denial from the defenders at first, but an admission later when the city is actually takenall of which, it is hoped, will establish confidence in the reliability of reports from the opposing nations and a distrust of reports of one's own nation.
Another trick of similar character, practiced by the Axis, is the announcement of false victories for the Democracies.
Since we are watchful for good news, we may accept these reports, not suspecting their origin. Later, when reports prove untrue, we become disillusioned and confused. The secretive way in which the Axis powers plan campaigns often lulls us into a sense of false security. Our perilous plight of unpreparedness during the early months of this war was our punishment for years of this weakness.
Nations at war with the United States have taken great advantage of our easy optimism and uncritical self-sufficiency. We have failed to take a proper measure of those who are against us, and we have considerably overestimated the security we have in extensive but undeveloped material resources and manpower.
Nations opposing this country still feign weakness at times to lull us into this sense of false security and the resulting relaxation of effort.
Another potent psychological weapon is the peace offensive.
Should the United Nations appear to be really about to win the war, a strong bid for peace can surely be expected from the Axis. The hope will be to lull the Democracies back into a sense of false security, while further preparation may be made to attack them. The Axis nations real- 2 ize how "pacifistic" at heart we are, and they are sure to attempt to turn this fine ideal to our destruction. The defense against psychological warfare is as complicated as war itself. Let us hope that some understanding of what it is will aid in our resistance to it. However, civilians can prepare themselves against it in some measure by abiding by the following suggestions: First, keep reliably informed on the daily news.
Learn to check habitually the sources of all reports and to evaluate their content according to their source. Second, don't carry rumors.
They are the most unreliable source of news there is. Remember, most of them are planted by those opposed to us, and they are meant to confuse and mislead us.
Always ask the tumor monger where he got his story.
Write it down if it sounds vicious enough, then check it with your civilian defense authorities. You might thus help to find fifth columnists. Don't repeat rumors to your neighbots. Third, speak constructively of democracy and its leaders.
This doesn't mean not to criticize, but it does mean to learn to see and to speak of all that is good as well as that which needs correcting.
FAITH AND COURAGE
The following Christmas message by Nicholas Murray Butler may appropriately be carried into the new year: Christmas Day in this year of grace will be celebrated with civilization at the lowest mark in the history of modern times. This means that more than ever men of light and leading and insight must have faith and courage and hope. They must not and cannot let their faith weaken in those everlasting ideals which must rule any civilized and peaceful world.... 
 JANUARY 1943
