[Vol55 | August 1968 | Page 5 | Fiction | If Spring Be | Late Chapter]
Spring Be Late" (beginning April 1968) becomes more interesting with each chapter. I find myself really absorbed in it. "Say Peanut Butter" (by Janice T. Dixon, May 1968) is precious. So seldom do we find anything to smile over and it was told in such a happy way. The poetry in the Magazine is all excellent. Dorothy C. Robinson Orem, Utah The Relief Society Magazine is the most important magazine that I own. We seldom see the names of people from this area in the From Near and Far department. Recently, however, I attended Brigham Young University Education week in Potomac Stake, and there I met Sister Ellen N. Barnes of the General Board of Relief Society. She was our music director when 300 Singing Mothers sang at the World's Fair in 1964. It was a thrilling experience to see her again. I love all the contents of The Relief Society Magazine lessons, the Home Inside and Out, general features, fiction, and, especially, the poetry. Violet B. Colleti Alexandria, Virginia I am so happy to receive The Relief Society Magazine in Spanish that I am writing to express my gratitude to you. I am Spanish, and I live in France, where we have lived for more than six years. My husband is president of the branch here in Toulouse, where we are all active. I congratulate you dear sisters on this Magazine. It carries a high morality, and gives much spirituality. It helps me very much in my personal life. I bid you farewell, and send you a strong embrace from a sister who loves you. Elvire Turtos Toulouse, France My dear friend Sister Kirk brings me The Relief Society Magazine, which I read from cover to cover, and find the stories so uplifting, and learn so much from the articles and special features. Eileen Brown Radford, Nottingham, England My son Fred who is on a mission in Germany was recently visiting in the home of an American soldier, and the wife brought out the Magazine containing my article about the Bancroft flood (July 1962). Fred said, "I was real proud of you, Mom." Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho I first heard the gospel in Rio Cuarto, Argentina, where I was baptized eighteen ye

ars ago. Since then my testimony has grown every day, as well as my happiness with the certainty that this is the only true Church of God upon the earth. I am very grateful to my Heavenly Father for his guidance, and because he always answers my prayers. Nineteen months ago I came to the United States. One of my sources of joy is to be able to receive The Relief Society Magazine in Spanish, and, through reading it, to grow in knowledge and faith. Through its pages, I would like to send greetings to all my brothers and sisters in the Church in Argentina, and to all the ex-missionaries who were guests in my home while they were serving their missions. Carmela F. Valentich Norwalk, California I would like to thank you sincerely for the publication of my recipes (April 1968), and for the payment, which came in handy to help buy Brother and Sister Ronald Coleby and their daughters Marjorie and Linda a going-away present. They came home here from Salt Lake City five years ago, after being there for ten and a half years. Now they have returned to Salt Lake City, Linda having received a scholarship at the University of Utah. We have had a good many missionaries stay with us through the years. Our Relief Society Magazine is a wonderful book. All of the sisters here seem to enjoy the lessons. I especially like to read President McKay's writings. He is a wonderful man and an inspiration to us all.