Notes FROM THE FIELD Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Wherever the name does not readily indicate the geographical location of the stake or mission, the location of its headquarters is designated in parentheses. Regulations governing the submittal of material for '"'Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for April 1940, page 275. Relief Society Anniversary Programs Juarez Stake (Mexico) NELLE S. HATCH, president of Juarez Stake Relief Society, reports that the 98th anniversary of the Relief Society was observed in every ward in the stake, at the sacrament service on Sunday, March 17. "The program was planned by a member of the stake board, and a board member was present at each ward. The outstanding accomplishments of the Relief Society welfare work throughout the organization were featured, and also the duties, privileges, and rewards of the visiting teacher. The program was creditably presented in every ward and enthusiastically received. We feel proud to have been able to accomplish this under the unfavorable conditions of widely-separated wards and bad _ toads, but we could not have done it without the splendid and thorough support of the Priesthood. The stake president took his own car and with his counselors, who in this case were the husbands of the delegates, accompanied the board members to the mountain colonies." Franklin Stake (Preston, Idaho) THE Weston Ward of Franklin Stake observed the 98th anniversary of Relief Society on Sunday, March 17, 1940, by presenting the pageant, "The Key of Promise," depicting the growth of Relief Society from its beginning in 1842 to the present. The cast appears in the accompanying photograph. This proCAST OF PAGEANT "THE KEY OF PROMISE," WESTON WARD OF FRANKLIN STAKE NOTES FROM THE FIELD. Duction was enthusiastically received by a large audience. Sara Nelson is president of this ward Relief Society, and the stake president is Alice S. Merrill. Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho Falls, Idaho) ORA M. CHRISTENSEN, president of Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, submitted the accompanying picture and account of the Relief Society anniversary observance in the Sixth Ward, of which Clara Jenkins is Relief Society president. "Using the theme, "The Light of Relief Society,' as suggested in the Relief Society Magazine for February, 1940, (page 101), the Sixth Ward of the Idaho Falls Stake presented a candlelighting program at the Sunday evening service on the 17th of March, 1940. Gold candles were placed on a large blue birthday cake, with the president's taper at the top. There was a candle for each of the seventyfour members of our ward Society. CANDLE-LIGHTING SERVICE, SIXTH WARD OF IDAHO FALLS STAKE 51 Each candle was lighted from the president's taper which had been lighted by the bishop of the ward, symbolizing that our authority for Relief Society comes through the Priesthood. The president first gave a talk on the light or worth of Relief Society work. A reader reviewed the various activities of Relief Society as each leader lit her taper. Appropriate music was played throughout the service, which ended with all the women singing 'A Hundred? 99 Thousand Strong'. San Bernardino Stake (California) VERA B. CLARK, president of San Bernardino Ward Relief Society, submitted the following program of the anniversary celebration which was held by the ward on Friday afternoon, March 15, 1940:
Ruth Arbuckle Song "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning"...........................Congregation (This song was sung at the organization meeting in 1842.)
 ?JANUARY, 1941
Prayer:............................Ethel Blomquist Welcome Address, Introduction of Theme "Widening Horizons"............Vera Clark "Everyday Horizons"..........LaPriel Baird "Future Horizons".....................Iris Brown "Spiritual Horizons".....................Josie Bay "Gay Horizons"..........................Arla Peterson "Changing Horizons"..........Evelyn Heath "Distant Horizons"............Verna Carter "Friendly Horizons"..............Flora Harber Sue Powell Nettie Miller Bessie Bryant Connie Biggers Merle Tibbitts
The president reports that this program was both unusual and inspirational, and that the theme development of the "horizons" brought out past activities of the Relief Society and future possibilities. The number designated "Gay Horizons" was a very funny doll show, with Relief Society members acting as dolls. "Changing Horizons" was a pageant in poetry and song depicting Relief Society history and honoring the eight general presidents of Relief Society. "Friendly Horizons" was the refreshment hour when a huge birthday cake was cut and served. Josie B. Bay is stake Relief Society president.
Kanab Stake (Kanab, Utah)
The following report was written by Ella H. Palmer, secretary-treasurer of the Alton Ward Relief Society, of which Afton J. Heaton is president: "The Alton Ward Relief Society of the Kanab Stake had a very enjoyable anniversary celebration in March, 1940, where every member was given an opportunity to take part and demonstrate her ability in a poetry contest, using the letters e-v-e-r-y m-e-m-b-e-r at the beginning of the lines. Some very interesting contributions were made. The prize-winning verse was composed by Charlotte Hoyt. A booklet containing all the poems was given as a prize. A lovely birthday cake, decorated
ALTON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, KANAB STAKE GARVANZA WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, SAN FERNANDO STAKE
in the Relief Society colors, was served, and original membership songs were sung. The accompanying picture was taken that day and shows the lilies which were given as favors to the three oldest members, the three newest members, the oldest officer, the visiting teacher who had served longest, and the present presiding officers." Lillian C. McAllister is the stake president of Relief Society.
San Fernando Stake (California)
RUTH CHRISTENSEN, first counselor of the Garvanza Ward Relief Society, sent the report from which are taken the following excerpts: "One of the most successful anniversary programs ever held in this ward was presented on March 13, 1940, by the Garvanza Relief Society of the San Fernando Stake. Eight women portrayed the characters of the eight presidents of this great organization, giving the highlights in their lives and the part each one played in the progress of Relief Society. The ward Relief Society president, Emma Smith Dewey, is a descendant of the Smith family, and was named for Emma Smith, the first president. It was, therefore, very proper that Sister Dewey be persuaded to represent her namesake on this occasion. Refreshments were served following the program. The accompanying picture is of the group of 100 women who attended the anniversary celebration. Sadie E. Williams is Relief Society president of this stake.
"WE look forward to 1942 with eagerness and enthusiasm. A glorious centennial awaits us.... The strength and beauty which is ours because of one hundred years of worthy endeavor will arouse our deepest gratitude and give us courage to meet whatever tomorrow may bring. With faces set resolutely toward the future, a new determination will come to us to do our part in an organization which will wield an ever increasing influence for good. The occasion should be a rich experience in the life of every member, stimulating her to go forward and create for her successors patterns of enduring worth."?Mary Grant Judd, Member of Relief Society General Board.
EXCERPTS FROM "LIFE OF JOSEPH F. SMITH" Joseph Fielding Smith (Selected by Marianne C. Sharp)
"Always thy duty well perform, whate'er may threaten in thy way; Nor ever fear to meet the storm of human hate, or passions sway; But calmly trust in God above, and bend thy course at His command; Nor swerve, to gain or lose the love of friend or foe, but with firm hand, And nobly, to thy duty stand." (Page 279)
"Teach your children to pay tithing, so that it may be perpetually observed. If we observe this law, no matter what our enemies may do, the Lord will preserve us. Because we are His sons and daughters, He loves us, and He has forgiven our forgetfulness of this holy law in the past, but He will not forgive you and me any longer. I say it in the name of the Lord. He will not forgive this people any longer." (Page 408).
"Furthermore, I want to say to you, we may not be able to reach it right away, but we expect to see the day when we will not have to ask you for one dollar of donation for any purpose, except that which you volunteer to give of your own accord, because we will have tithes sufficient in the storehouse of the Lord to pay everything that is needful for the advancement of the Kingdom of God." (Page 429)
"Virtue is a priceless gem in the wife, she has a right to demand the same of her husband. There is no true happiness where virtue and purity do not dwell." (Page 258)
"I would rather take my children to the cemetery, and see them buried in innocence, than I would see them corrupted by the ways of the world.... Some people feel that it does not make very much difference whether a girl marries a man in the Church, full of the faith of the Gospel, or an unbeliever. Some of our young people have married outside of the Church; but very few of those who have done it have failed to come to grief. I would like to see Latter-day Saint men marry Latter-day Saint women.... There is nothing that I can think of, in a religious way, that would grieve me more intensely than to see one of my boys marry an unbelieving girl, or one of my girls marry an unbelieving man." (Page 404)
"We can make no advancement only upon the principles of eternal truth. In proportion as we become established upon the foundation of these principles which have been revealed from the heavens in the latter days, and determine to accomplish the purposes of the Lord, will we progress, and the Lord will all the more exalt and magnify us before the world and make us to assume our real position and standing in the midst of the earth." (Page 31)
"I would rather die any moment than to do aught that would forfeit the confidence and the love of my friends and my brethren." (Page 31)
"It is error and the lack of knowledge of God's laws and God's will that leaves men in the world on a par with the brute creation; for they have no higher instinct, no higher principle, no higher incentive, no higher aspiration than the brute world if they have not some inspiration that comes from a higher source than man himself." (Page 372)
"When we receive the Gospel, we enter into the truth, and we enter into it through the door that was opened by the Son of God. We do not give anything for it except obedience. We have nothing to give except obedience, and for that obedience we get everything, even life everlasting, and exaltation in the presence of God, a perfect knowledge that we will be joined together as kinsfolk in the bonds of the new and everlasting covenant...." (Page 398)