Gambling Rulon W. Clark Judge of the Juvenile Court, Salt Lake City, Utah
IT is our duty and responsibility as leaders in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to assist the young people who come under our direction to develop strong characters which will make them good members of the Church and good citizens of the state and nation to which we belong. Character is the sum total of an individual's inner traits, as represented by his conduct. The thing that makes a man strong in character, as we usually consider it, is not merely an accumulation of integrated traits, but also a worthy and desirable motive, purpose, or ultimate objective judged from the point of view of society as a whole. We must have the traits, of course, but they must be used in the proper direction. A man possessed of a fine array of abstract virtues may be likened to a loaded gun which may be used either in defense from an attack of a vicious animal or to assassinate a president. The direction in which the gun is fired is certainly as important as the fact that it is a loaded, efficient weapon. Also, a worthy or desirable objective without the traits that assist in its realization is as useless as an unloaded, defective weapon pointed at a vicious animal.
One of the fundamental elements of good character is that of honesty. A child should be given an opportunity to practice honesty as well as to be taught the principles of it; to employ it in many and varying situations. Honesty denotes honesty in speech, actions, correspondence, dress, relationships with self, one's own family, one's own group and with outside groups. Too often, children are allowed to conceive the idea that it is not the violation of law nor the commission of a delinquent act which is really vital, but the being caught for the commission of such act. And with a development of this attitude, a child may allow himself to commit acts of delinquency or crime feeling that he is justified. He may see his elders or prominent persons in a civic or religious organization performing the same or similar acts, or he may feel that because others speculate or resort to unfair practices he is justified so long as he is not apprehended.
One of the outstanding urges in character education is that of curiosity. Plato says, "Curiosity is the mother of all knowledge." The mind of the youth is continuously searching for information, and is receptive to information, and the answer to his sincere yearning is of great importance. The teacher who says to the child, "You must keep still," is failing to recognize the high principle of teaching which should characterize a real teacher. Sometimes children are taught that they should not be so inquisitive or curious—that "curiosity killed the cat." The present-day child is not satisfied with such an admonition. He wants to know what the cat was curious about. With this idea burning within him, the child is often led to speculate, experiment and often to gamble.
THE element of chance enters very largely into everything we undertake, and it should be remembered that the spirit in which we do things decides very largely whether we are gambling or entering into a legitimate business enterprise. There is also a very close similarity between gambling and games of skill. In fact, they are sometimes so closely associated that superior courts have been called upon to render decisions where prosecution has been attempted.
Gambling as distinguished from a game is defined in Nelson's Encyclopedia as follows: "Gambling, according to law, is an agreement between two or more persons whereby they risk money or anything of value, upon the result of a game of chance, in which one or more may win, and the other or others lose. The term, 'game' includes every possible scheme or contrivance for amusement which involves a test of skill or endurance or any element of chance."
Regardless of one's attitude as to gambling, there are two paramount questions which arise in our minds: First, is one violating the law of the state by gambling, thereby making himself a criminal in the eyes of the law and subjecting himself to criminal prosecution? Second, is one injuring himself or others by gambling or permitting gambling devices to be available to people who cannot afford to gamble, or to young people who might acquire the desire for gambling?
Gambling is unlawful in the State of Utah, and the persons participating are subject to punishment. The statute provides:
103-25-1—A Felony—Seizure and Destruction of Paraphernalia: "Every person who deals or carries on, opens or causes to be opened, or who conducts, either as owner or employee, whether for hire or not, any game of faro, monte, roulette, lansquenet, rouge et noir, rondo, or any game played with cards, dice or any other device, for money, checks, credit or any other representative of value is guilty of a felony, and it shall be the duty of all sheriffs, constables, police and other peace officers whenever it shall come to the knowledge of such officer that any person has in his possession any cards, tables, checks, balls, wheels, slot machines or gambling devices of any nature or kind whatsoever used or kept for the purpose of playing for money, or for tokens redeemable in money, at any of the games mentioned in this chapter, or that any cards, tables, checks, balls, wheels, slot machines or gambling devices used or kept for the purposes aforesaid may be found in any place, to seize and take such cards, tables, checks, balls, wheels, slot machines or other gambling devices and convey the same before a magistrate of the county in which such devices shall be found; and it shall be the duty of such magistrate to inquire of such witnesses as he shall summon or as may appear before him in that behalf touching the nature of such gambling devices, and, if such magistrate shall determine that the same are used or kept for the purpose of being used at any game or games of chance described in this chapter, it shall be his duty to destroy the same."
The statute not only makes it illegal, but makes it a felony to own or operate or permit to be operated gambling devices in the State of Utah. It also provides that persons who own buildings or rent buildings are guilty of a misdemeanor when they permit a gambling game to be played upon the premises:
103-25-2 — "Every person who knowingly permits any of the games mentioned in the preceding section to be played, conducted or dealt in any house owned or rented by such persons, in whole or in part, and any person who plays at or against any of said prohibited games, is guilty of a misdemeanor."
One of our greatest difficulties in enforcing the statutes regarding gambling devices is that the devices are constructed so nearly like games of skill or like those for the sale of merchandise that they are classed as games of skill or vending machines and are licensed to be operated. There have been some decisions of our Utah Courts which make clear the distinction. In the case of Utah State Fair Association et al vs. Green et al, the Utah Supreme Court said: "But games of cards do not cease to be games of chance because they call for exercise of skill by the player, nor do games of billiards cease to be games of skill because at times, especially in the case of tyros, the result is determined by some unforeseen accident, usually called 'luck.' The test of the character of the game is not whether it contains an element of chance or an element of skill, but which of these is the dominating element that determines the result of the game."
IT is argued by some that if people have the money and wish to gamble or spend it for entertainment, it is their own affair and the business of no one else. They know, or should know, when they gamble with commercial devices or in commercial gambling places that the chances are greatly against them, and in most instances they will lose their money. In the American Magazine, Volume 120, page 102, there is an article by a professional gambler, entitled "Some Folks are Lucky," written by J. B. Creswold. In part, he says: "Nine hundred ninety-nine people out of a thousand have no business gambling big money. The thousandth is the person I usually get at my table. The other 999 are suckers and lose more than they can afford. My first indication is to figure they are getting what is coming to them, but I despise more than suckers the cheap gambler who trims them, and I shall be glad if I can do anything that will cut into his profits." Gambling in itself is serious enough, but the development of the idea within a child that he can get something for little or nothing is wrong. In many instances which have come before the Juvenile Court, the children who have been found to be delinquent by reason of theft have attempted to justify themselves with the thought that they could "get by with it" without being caught, and it appears evident that this attitude *might be developed from the gambling spirit. In the days when slot machines were so prevalent in our state, our attention was called to one child who had been given five dollars by 

 —JANUARY, 1941

 GAMBLING his parents to purchase books and pay his student-body fee, etc., at school, and enroute stopped at a drug store. The girl who waited on him suggested that there was a slot machine in the basement which was about ready to "kick in," and the boy changed one of his dollars into nickles and proceeded to play the slot machine. Out of the entire five dollars played into the machine, he received twenty cents back. After spending his money, and realizing what he had done, he took an ice pick which he found in the basement and smashed the glass and removed the nickles from the machine. He was apprehended by the owner of the store, the money taken from him, and he was turned over to peace officers for handling. Instead of bringing the boy into Court, a complaint was filed against the owner of the store for contributing to the delinquency of a minor, but it appeared that before the case was brought to trial, the mother, signer of the complaint, withdrew the complaint and refused to testify, stating that the matter had been made night with her and that she had received ten dollars from the manager of the store to settle the matter. I might also be urged that we cannot legislate our morals, and that no matter how severe our legislation and strict the enforcement of our laws, we still cannot overcome the dangers of crime and delinquency without teaching and practicing correct principles in the home, the school, and the church. These institutions play a very important part in the formation of character of young people. From them should come the teaching, the training, and 7 the establishment of ideals in the minds of youth. Those who are given the responsibility of teaching and training young people should be equipped with a knowledge of materials and the technique of building just the same as should the mechanic who attempts to build a building. Above all, youth should be stimulated with a desire to live up to lofty and noble ideals. The practice of lottery and gambling has long been denounced by, leaders of our Church. President Joseph F'. Smith said in the Juvenile Instructor of October 1, 1902: "The desire to get something of value for little or nothing is pernicious; and any proceeding that strengthens that desire is an effective aid to the gambling spirit, which has proved a veritable demon of destruction to thousands. Among the vices of the present age, gambling is very generally condemned. Gambling under its true name is forbidden by law, and is discountenanced by the self-respecting element of society. Nevertheless, in numerous cases the demon of chance is welcomed in the home, in various groups, and the entertainments for worthy charities, even within the precincts of the sacred edifice; devices for raising money by appealing to the gambling instincts are common accessories at church sociables, other affairs, and the like. Whatever may be the condition elsewhere, this custom is not to be sanctioned within this Church; and any organization allowing such is in opposition to the counsel and instructions of the General Authorities of the Church." Since the law of our state prohibits gambling and our Church authorities denounce it, our responsibility 18; 

 —JANUARY, 1941

 as members is to obey the law and sustain the Church authorities. We, as adults, should take the lead and set the proper example, and the youth, seeing our good works, will have a greater incentive to develop into worthy members of the Church and respectable citizens of the state. Gambling still exists in our city and state. The peace officers are making an attempt to control it, but they, without the support of public sentiment, cannot stop it. Arrests and convictions may be made, but until public sentiment is strong enough to demand it, the police cannot and will not stop it. We, as a Church and a people, can greatly reduce the amount of gambling by helping to create public sentiment and urging law enforcement officers to enforce the law. However, the surest means of curtailing the evil among our own Church members is to see that all of our young people become and remain active in the Church program— to follow the admonition of the wise man who said, "Train up a child in the way he should go and when he is old he will not depart from it."