Habits of Happiness Pauline T. Pingree (Relief Society General Board Member) (Conference Address, October 3, 1940) HAPPINESS consists not of having, but of being; not of possessing, but of enjoying. It is the warm glow of a heart at peace with itself. Happiness is paradoxical because it may coexist with trial, sorrow and poverty. It is the gladness of the heart, rising superior to all conditions. It is the essence of a life lived in harmony with high ideals. We are creators of our own happiness. For what we have, we may be. Largely dependent upon others; but what we are rests largely with us alone. The first ingredient of happiness is love. If we truly love one another, we will be patient with one another, charitable, kind, generous, courteous, unselfish, and we will try to cultivate good temper. We will be sincere and honest with each other and with ourselves. We will be humble before God and try to do His will. Have you ever noticed how much of Christ's life was spent in doing kind things? He spent most of his time in making people happy, and yet some would have us believe that He was a man of sorrows. I never read about Him or think about Him without picturing Him comforting the sorrowful, healing the sick, making the blind to see, the deaf to hear. It is impossible for me to believe that anyone who could create so much happiness and do so much good could be unhappy. Christ taught us that the fruits of the spirit are love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, and temperance. If we would follow in His footsteps, we must go about doing good. Service is the measure of greatness, and he is greatest and happiest who does the most good. Happiness is largely an interior matter, and the more you give, the more milk of gladness bubbles up from the depths within you. There is no way by which a person can be truly happy without being good, clean, square, and true. This does not mean that a person is assured happiness just because he does not use tobacco, drink liquor, gamble, use profane language, or does not do other such things. He may observe all of these laws and still be unhappy because he is uncharitable, jealous, envious and trevengeful. He may slander and cheat or be cunning and underhanded. No person can be truly happy who has a small, bigoted, narrow, uncharitable mind or disposition. Generosity, charity, and kindness are absolutely essential to real happiness. William George Jordan says, "If you would hit the bull's eye of happiness of the target of life, aim above it. Place other things higher than your own happiness, and it will surely come to you." You can buy pleasure, you can acquire contentment, you can become satisfied, but nature never puts real happiness on the bargain counter. It is like wheat or corn?it must be planted and grown, and we reap as we sow. Real happiness without achievement of some worthy aim is unthinkable. One of the greatest satisfactions HABITS OF HAPPINESS in this world is the feeling of growth, of stretching upward and onward. We must feel our expanding-power lifting, tugging away at a lofty purpose or we miss the joy of living. Material things and conditions bring passing pleasures; such as, money and what it will buy, or what it will give you in the way of power, influence, comforts and _ luxuries. Sometimes, however, the heart starves amid the greatest luxuries. Happiness has little to do with material things. It is a state of mind. It cannot be found in mere temporary things, because its roots reach deep down into eternal principles. There are numerous ways in which people expect to find happiness. Some expect to find it in books, others in travel, others in association with friends, others in the study of the arts and sciences, others in coarse dissipation of various kinds. Many expect to find their greatest happi- 49 ness in marriage. We quickly discover that real happiness cannot come from anything outside of us, but must be developed within us. Married couples soon learn that domestic happiness depends upon what they mutually contribute to the partnership?that no one can take out a great deal without putting a great deal in; selfishness reaps a mean, despicable harvest. It is only the generous giver who gets much. Unhappiness is the hunger to get. Happiness is the hunger to give. Where can the people of a bemuddled world turn to find a dayby-day plan for developing "Habits of Happiness'? 'There is only one answer?through the Gospel of Jesus Christ. He has pointed the way. May we so live that we may have that inner peace which comes from right thinking and right doing, that we may have everlasting joy and happiness.