Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest
The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the names of the three award winners in the 1940 Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest. The first prize of fifteen dollars is awarded to Helen Candland Stark, Faulk Road, R. F. D. No. 2, Wilmington, Delaware, for her poem "Grains of Life." The second prize of ten dollars is awarded to Mrs. La Verne Jensen Stallings, 1393 South 13th East Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "Three Gifts." The third prize of five dollars is awarded to Mrs. Elsie F. Parton, 34 Dumbleton Road, Hurstville, N. S. W., Australia, for her poem "Restoration."
This memorial poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1923. It is held in honor of Eliza Roxey Snow, second general president of the Relief Society and one of the most gifted of our early-day poets. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women and is designed to stimulate and encourage them to write poetry and to appreciate the beauty and value of poetic verse. Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be used for publication by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates.
There were 101 poems entered in this year's contest. The General Board commends the entrants on the general excellence of the poems submitted. The selection of prize-winning poems required very careful, painstaking analysis on the part of the judges. It is a distinct recognition to be an award winner among so many gifted contestants. We congratulate those who achieved this recognition. We appreciate the wide interest evidenced in the contest and thank all who have contributed to its success—the entrants for the high quality of work submitted, the General Board Poem Contest Committee for its interest in the success of the contest and for its devoted and tireless efforts, and the three judges for their willing service, careful consideration of poems submitted, and for the excellence of their judgment in selecting prize-winning poems. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs of the prize-winning contestants, are published herewith.
HELEN CANDLAND STARK MRS.