Some Literary Friends Florence Ivins Hyde No. VI
Popularity
A BOOK which I believe will interest every growing boy and girl has been written by Regina Westcott Wieman under the intriguing title, Popularity. Whether we are young or old, this word attracts us, for we all seem to have an innate desire to be popular. Particularly is this true of young people during high school and college days. Most of them would rather be called "popular" than anything else that might be said of them. So important has it come to be that the business of charm has become a profession. Advertisers appeal to this desire to be popular by putting out wares that are supposed to give us charm, personality, glamour—words that immediately attract our attention.
Unquestionably, the development of personality has much to do with success or failure in life. Whether we have approached the study in the best way is a question. There is a growing tendency for people to want to appear like someone else rather than to capitalize on their own best qualities. There is wisdom in an expression of Emerson Fosdick which reads, "The most interesting game in the world—making the most of one's best."
The thing which, in my opinion, makes Mrs. Wieman's book worthwhile is the fact that it is far more basic than most books in its method of attacking this important subject. The author says, "The problem of popularity is that of relating ourselves satisfactorily to the groups we feel are socially worthwhile," and she attempts to show how we may adjust ourselves to group life in the "presence of powerful and often objectionable social patterns." She discusses the things we do to make ourselves unpopular, the defense mechanisms we use, the types and qualities of popularity, the things we must do to become popular, and finally the way out when the groups we live among do not measure up to our ideals.
All of us, perhaps unconsciously, do things that make us unpopular. Some of the unpopular types Mrs. Wieman describes are: the highbrow girl who patronizes her friends; the honest girl who prides herself on being perfectly frank; the "cat" who scratches every superior person; the "snake-in-the-grass," and many others. Most of these, she says, want popularity so urgently that they have gone to queer extremes to win it.
There are many reasons why people are at odds with each other. Great effort should be put forth to overcome faults which interfere with friendships, for we lack the richest experiences of life if we have no friends. If we could develop the faculty of truly knowing ourselves and of comparing ourselves with others, we would stand a much better chance of being interesting to others. We sometimes forget that we often rate ourselves much higher than others rate us.
It is often tragic when people feel that they do not "measure up." Some become bitter and do wrong; others retreat within themselves and live alone. Both of these are undesirable escapes. "The thing we must work for is not an escape from life, but an understanding of it."
The desire to be popular is a perfectly legitimate desire, because without it our personalities cannot grow as they should. "There are all types and qualities of popularity. Your age, your special interests, your cultural background, and the sort of people you live among, all affect your idea of what being popular means. One girl feels popular because she has lots of dates, while another feels it is her liberal petting licenses and not the girl herself which are popular. One person thinks popularity hinges upon the number of activities he participates in. Some older people want to hold as many offices as possible. All people work to gain approval and invitations from certain groups. They develop the 'line' they feel will help them reach this place. Some smoke to get approval, some give sporty dinners and teas.... Girls are regimented until they all look alike. They dare not be different. They must be popular by type rather than person."
We find our own ways of finding our group. If we fail to fit into one group, we set out to find another. This is as it should be, provided we do not drift into a lower group—this sometimes happens with tragic results. For the person who is left out of the "most-talked-of" groups, there are always groups that are engaged in working out worthwhile projects, either social or personal, which may be sublimating.
MRS. WIEMAN discusses what makes a person popular. "It is easy enough to be popular," she says, "if that is the only objective." But when the standards of the social group do not meet with our approval, a problem is presented. Too often the group which calls itself the "elite," and which has a large following, establishes patterns undesirable to us. We feel we must conform to the standards of the group in order to "rate" with it; we believe we have to be like the group or we will not long belong to it.
The author makes the surprising assertion that group patterns are practically always the standards of the less cultured of the group. Sometimes they make an effort to maintain low standards; for example, at one university for men, a certain group had the slogan, "Three is the gentlemen's grade." The purpose was to make third-graders rate with first-graders. Members of some groups believe in such standards as smoking and drinking for both men and women. We have to admit that such standards lower the cultural level of the group. It is important that we choose our groups wisely.
Group pressure has a tremendous influence over young people. They accept patterns without discrimination as to whether in the long run they are desirable. It is important that young people (and adults also) come to realize that the "requirements which place a heavy mortgage on the future are the ones to avoid; for example, making fun of the habits of self-control, indulgence in sexual intimacies as an expected feature of dating." Often young people feel that unless they conform, they must pay a painful penalty, not realizing that if they do conform, they must pay a much heavier penalty.
No one rates one hundred per cent in every group. There are groups to which we would never want to belong, and there are other groups which would never want us to belong. "The unthinking group will not tolerate the exceptionally superior. This attitude occurs in adult as well as in student groups. It is human nature." This attitude sometimes makes it difficult for superior, well-bred children who would like to belong to certain groups and still live up to the standards of their heritage.
Mrs. Wieman claims that it is not imperative that we conform and belong to the crowd or refuse to conform and be left out. There is a way out. She says, "We must organize a new group pressure which will challenge the despotism of the present one." Without criticizing others, we can build up a powerful minority to establish better patterns. It takes a long time to change group patterns, but it can be done. We must first get people thinking by organizing groups, by making speeches; if we are students, by having discussions, writing editorials for school papers, and by putting our ideas into practice. "Those who have held a monopoly on popularity will disapprove—but as the thing works out, they will often join in the project. It is a long way out, but it will bring lasting satisfaction. A few persons alone cannot accomplish much. It takes group organization to change social patterns.
IN concluding her discussion, the author says, "Looks, luck, and lucre are desirable in life. But none of them, nor all of them together, can bring the kind of popularity which is of most value. This popularity is dependent upon understanding and creativeness in working with others. It is earned, and always brings satisfactions. Popularity that just happens is not dependable. Anyone who wishes and works hard enough can earn strong and genuine popularity. It comes only through enthusiastic, intelligent, sincere, creative investment of the real self and the whole self in our social relationships, in cooperative effort with others to promote the right kind of social conditions.
"This leaves the question of whether we want to be popular, to our own choosing. There are several choices to be made:
"Do I want to be popular?"
"Am I willing to pay for it?"
"What do I expect to get out of popularity—the assurance that I shall be in frequent demand, or the reinforcing security that comes from true friendships that have grown steadily through sharing genuine interests? One is secured through stock market tactics and the other through growth in personality itself.
"Would I rather mortgage my future than be left out now?"
"With whom do I want to be popular?"
"Our speedy ways of living and our constant shifting of population encourage the wide, shallow types (Continued on page 74)