Food Facts and Food Fads Lesson 7 (Tuesday, April 8, 1941)
FOOD FACTS
The present generation has more scientific facts about nutrition than any generation has had before. We have these facts because some of the greatest scientific minds in the world have studied the functions of the human body and the chemistry of the foods which nourish it, and their knowledge has been pooled and made available. We know what foods are necessary to build strong, healthy bodies. We know what food can do toward maintaining the body in a state of physical fitness. We also know that certain diseases are not prevented by good nutrition and that proper diet cannot cure all of the human ailments.
The human body needs the right amounts of protein, fats, carbohydrates, minerals, vitamins and water every day. These food nutrients can be supplied each day from milk, fruits, vegetables, whole grain products, eggs, meat, and water. In some families, extra vitamin fortification is needed for some members.
 ?JANUARY, 1941
It makes no difference in what combinations or forms these foods are served so long as each food group is represented each day in the amounts which nutrition research workers recommend for good health. Families in the low-income group may be just as well nourished as those with more money, provided they know something about food values and select their food accordingly. The human body will make best use of an adequate food supply when the foods are prepared so that they look appetizing, taste good, and retain their food value.
More than one-third of the people in the United States are living on diets below the safety line for good nutrition. Three major reasons have combined to keep forty-five million of our population undernourished: first, bad food habits; second, lack of knowledge and application of sound nutrition principles; third, lack of adequate food supply, which may be due to low income or to insufficient food production on the individual farm.
FOOD FADS
All the advice really needed on the subject of food fads can be stated in two brief words?"avoid them." Food fads have kept many Americans from getting enough to eat, because the followers of food fads live on an incomplete diet. Some of these diet fads are sound in some respects; for example, they may warn against overeating or against eating extra-rich pastries or highly-seasoned foods. Some may recommend large amounts of fruits and vegetables. Some of the food fads are harmless, but most of them are perniciously misleading and definitely harmful.
Promoters of food fads flourish in America more than in any other country. Food faddists are the most persistent of our recent quacks. They have persuasion and poise. They use all of the modern advertising methods to promote these fads. They succeed because they know there is no field in which sentiment and prejudice so completely replace logical thinking and sound judgment as in the field of diet. Their doctrines spread farther and faster than does scientific knowledge, because the scientist is conservative, while the faddist is usually an extremist.
It is amazing how gullible some intelligent people can be when exposed to clever advertising. They will follow literally and faithfully the diets of these irregular doctors and be callously indifferent to the scientifically-measured advice of honest doctors. The food faddists usually have a string of letters after their names. Some of them are graduates from recognized medical colleges, but due to their irregular methods have been dropped from membership in their local and state medical associations. Many of them have degrees from third-rate institutions or from mythical schools which never did exist. The general public does not know this; and since the food faddist calls himself doctor, his public accepts his word as authoritative.
Before accepting the startling food notions promoted by these self-styled doctors, it is wise to get their rating. The American Medical Association in Chicago has a bureau of investigation with a card index listing food quacks along with other quacks and quackeries. This in-
LESSON DEPARTMENT
formation is freely available to anyone as a service of the doctors of this country in the interest of the health of the people.
Food fads break out in all sorts of forms. We are warned against such food combinations as proteins and carbohydrates, or fruit and milk, or milk and fish, or different kinds of fruits used together in the same meal. Vegetarians tell us to exclude all foods of animal origin?not only meat, but milk, cheese, and eggs. Raw food promoters tell us to eat nothing cooked. Their opponents tell us to eat nothing raw. We are told that certain foods will dry up the blood, that others are the specific cause of certain diseases, while some foods are brain foods. Some issue warnings against acid foods and some against alkaline foods. The dispensers of the so-called "health foods" would cure all our ills with vegetable juices or mineral salts or concentrates of something else. These are but a few samples of the many types of food fads which are circulating through the country and which contribute their share toward nutritional disorders in the United States, and which have no scientific backing.
Nutrition research disproves the theories regarding so-called harmful food combinations. Numerous experiments prove that proteins and carbohydrates digest as completely when eaten together as when eaten separately. We cannot separate them except in a chemical laboratory, unless we choose to live on egg white and sugar. Milk contains carbohydrate as well as protein and other food nutrients. Nature mixes them up in all our foods. There is even some protein in watermelon.
61
Fruit will curdle milk. Gastric juice also curdles milk soon after the milk reaches the stomach. Milk and fish get along very well together as do most other foods which the faddists claim to be harmful. Dr. Robert Hutchinson used to say of vegetarianism, "It is probably harmless, although it is apt to fill a man with wind and self-righteousness." Modern research points to the superiority of animal over vegetable proteins. Vegetables make valuable contributions to the diet but not because of their proteins. Vegetable proteins, with the exception of those found in soy beans, are incomplete proteins. Animal proteins are complete and are essential to an optimum diet. There is no scientific reason for taking all foods raw or for having all of them cooked. Some have more value raw, some are better cooked. Blood dries when it is exposed to air, not when it is circulating in the living body. Foods do not cause diseases. 'The continued lack of any one food nutrient, or of several, will cause nutritional deficiency diseases. Some people are allergic to certain foods but the discovery of these specific foods calls for individual diagnosis by a qualified physician and does not come within the field of the food faddist. The body is provided with a very efficient mechanism for keeping body fluids on the alkaline side. There is no need to worry about alkaline foods or acid foods so long as the day's food supply contains the essential food groups previously mentioned. Science recognizes no reducing food nor any single gaining food. We lose weight when our food in- take provides fewer calories than our bodies burn each day. We gain if they contain more. Individuals differ in their rate of burning food in the body. A basal metabolism test will discover what this individual rate lS. All foods are health foods when taken judiciously, whether we drink them or chew them. So long as we have teeth with which to chew, there is no reason why we need to take raw carrots or other vegetables as juices in order to be healthy. There is no specific brain food. It takes a variety of all foods to nourish all parts of the body.. A little knowledge can be a very dangerous thing when used in the field of quackery. Food faddism is quackery. A fundamental knowledge of nutrition is our best weapon against food fads. Reference Human Nutrition, 1939 Year Book, United States Department of Agriculture, Chapter on "Food Fads, Facts, and Fancies." a of itera ture THE MODERN NOVEL Lesson 7 Song Of Years (Tuesday, April 15, 1941) LESSON TOPICS: 1. Comments on previous lessons 2. The author 3. The setting 4. The characters COMMENTS ON PREVIOUS LESSONS The previous lessons in this year's work have dealt with two significant novels: Adam Bede, one of George Eliot's great pieces of fiction, and The Tree of Liberty, an historical novel of our own country by Elizabeth Page. Each of these books gives us a picture of a past time, thus widening our knowledge of history and helping us to see life in a world of experiences remote from our own. Each depicts emotions of characters under stresses we may never actually experience, thus making truer our sense of the heights and depths of emotion that man may feel. Each gives us the views of a distinguished writer and the philosophies of varied characters under circumstances vastly different from our own, which should enrich our own philosophies. Songs of Years may not be as rich in strictly literary values as these other books. It is less complex, and according to literary standards the greatness of a piece of writing depends upon how much it adds to our experience?emotionally, intellectually. Ethically. Song of Years creates a world of illusion we - can well understand, for we have heard our parents or grandparents relate experiences of their pioneer- 

 ?JANUARY, 1941

 LESSON DEPARTMENT ing days much like those presented in the book. It makes us appreciate the lives of those to whom we owe our beautiful land, comfortable homes, and our educational and industrial institutions?all of which contribute to the happiness and richness of our lives today. We see, through reading such books as this novel, the problems our forefathers met and solved, the hardships they courageously endured. A keener sense of our great heritage from the builders of the West, of the nation as a whole, is aroused through our sharing the experiences Mrs. Aldrich records. Furthermore, we see how dreams are made into realities, and that is a definite value that the reading of good books provides.