Three Gifts Mrs. La Verne Jensen Stallings (Awarded Second Prize, Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest)
I SONG
A small bird flew into a waiting world... And Song was born! Each feathered throat took up the note and sang a Song of Morn! Ten million busy beating hearts joined in a Song of Day! Sweet children skipping down the street tossed up a Song of Play! A grandame knitting in her chair rocked out a Song of Ease! Wild surging waves upon the shore called forth a Song of Seas! Great anvils hurled on towering steel forged in a Song of Might! Celestial Symphonies of Spheres flashed down a Song of Light! Two lovers singing in the rain sent happiness along.... The whole world heard the small brown bird that came and brought a Song!
II BEAUTY
Ah, Beauty, with your brush of wings across my eager eyes, What loveliness you bring along in joyous quick surprise! Gay butterflies that flash their rainbowed fans above the lawn Where dusk winds play and night winds play and the gentle winds of dawn. A myriad meadow creatures small, swift fleeting down the lea.... To dip their faces in the brook that ripples toward the sea; The curling, swirling, crimson leaves that hurry past my door And clear the way for winter snows adrift on earth's brown floor, Soft mists that rise from lake and land to homing in the sky That tall tree's hands might brush them on against the boundless High! Come, take me with you, Beauty, to your kingdoms fair and far, Perhaps there I can gather silver from the evening star, Bright golden apples from the moon and countless other things, Oh, Beauty, take me with you.... I have always wanted wings!
III LOVE
The silent rush of thankfulness that comes at break of day When I awake and rise again to work and laugh and play, Oh, this is love... Glad love of life! A swift unbidden sorrow with its sodden beat of pain, The urgency of welcome tears that fall like cooling rain, This, too, is love... Strange love of strife! All patient labor of my hands from dawn till day is done, Green gardens growing in the shade, clothes swinging in the sun, Yes, this is love... My love of sod! The deep and aching tenderness for babes upon my breast, Sweet heady wine of lover's arms in ecstasy and rest, Ah, this is love... 'tis love of God! For God has sent His holy flame through every living thing To quicken life and gladden life, and make it leap and sing! Then, may my soul's small candlelight lit from that flame above Burn ever with a steady prayer.... "Thank God, thank God, for Love!"