Great literature holds up before us not only life as it is but life as we would like to have it. In Song of Years, the ideal as well as the real is depicted. We see something of the ideal merging with the real, and it inspires us with courage to keep on giving faith to our own dreams, even in times more difficult, perhaps, than those our forefathers knew. These values will be more fully discussed in the next lesson. For the present let us consider the author. THE AUTHOR Bess Streeter Aldrich is one of the most popular of American novelists. She is perhaps already loved by many of you for the pleasure she gave in such delightful books as Mother Mason, A Lantern in Her Hand, White Bird Flying, and Miss Bishop. (This story, by the way, is soon to be filmed.) In all of these she depicts ideals of true and great wom- 63 anhood; she reveals to us more vividly than we had seen them before, perhaps, some of our own ethical standards, our own visions. Mrs. Aldrich was born in Cedar Falls, one of the towns she paints for us under another name in Song of Years. She is now fifty-one years old, at a period in life when she would enjoy turning back to the home of her youth and re-creating its early history. She received her higher education at the Iowa State Teachers' College, from which institution she was graduated in 1901. Six years later, she married Charles S. Aldrich, a banker of Elmwood, Nebraska, where she makes her home at the present time. Her married happiness lasted but eighteen years. Her widowhood did not leave her entirely bereft, however, for she had three sons, a daughter, and her work to fill her life with interest and usefulness. She had taught school for a number of years before her marriage? one year, of special interest to us, in Salt Lake City. Her teaching experience in her own state ranged from the public schools to the State Teachers' College, her alma mater. She began writing early, using for a number of years, between 1911 and 1918, the pen name Margaret Dean Stevens. She was well established as a writer of novel short stories and was a contributor to the leading women's magazines before her husband's death. Since then she has wutten more prolifically. Besides the novels already mentioned, two others of importance are The Cutters and Spring Comes Forever. Mrs. Aldrich is still active in scholastic circles as well as in literry Organizations and is affiliated with ?4 | 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JANUARY, 1941

 many groups, such as the 'Theta Sigma Phi, The Nebraska State Press Association, and the Omaha Women's Press. It is not these bare facts, however, that help us to know her, but the warm, vital philosophy she breathes into her stories, a philosophy of faith in humanity too often wanting in modern fiction. (Note: Additional material about the author will be found in the article "Women in Literature," by Elsie C. Carroll, published in the August issue of the Relief Society Magazine, page 521; see also the article "Literature and Living," by Elsie C. Carroll, published in the November issue of the Magazine, page 745.) THE SETTING The setting of a story includes not only the time and the place of the action, but also any enveloping conditions or circumstances which have a special bearing upon the events or the characters. In this story, placed in Iowa during the time intervening between 1865 and the end of the Civil War, there are two conditions which color the story. The first is the pioneer background of the early part of the narrative; the second is the war with its causes and the subsequent results. We are shown the gradual evolvement of two important American cities during a period of crisis in our country's history. 'The picture of these, which is typical of many others, helps us to better understand the growth of the whole nation during that time. So, as with Tree of Liberty, we are given, through the setting, a keener awareness of fundamental elements in our national life. Through the treatment of the pioneer background of the first part of the story, we see the closeness of the characters to the soil, how their love for the land is mingled with their dreams of homes and a future of freedom. And usefulness?essentially the foundation of American democracy. 'The feelings of Wayne Lockwood when he reaches the spot toward which he had traveled many days is typical of the feelings of our own pioneer forefathers when they reached their land of dreams. "The young man drew a quick excited breath. Wood... Creek... Gravel... Sand... Flowing springs... Rich loam.... This was it. For this he had come the long miles.... 'God,' he exclaimed aloud.... Long he stood there gazing at the picture. 'Yes, this is it.' His voice trembled with the emotion of the moment. To have come all this distance to claim that which was his own, not knowing just where it would lie... And now at last to see it before him.... He took off his cap... "Wayne Lockwood,' he grinned, 'do you take this land to be your lawfully wedded own, to have and to hold in sickness and in health?'... Jocularly he made answer in a feminine voice: 'I do.'" The picture of simple pioneer life in the Martin home, with weddings, and other kinds of celebrations, the unique pioneer home activities, the wholesome hospitality to strangers, and the true neighborliness are delightfully painted. Just as vividly is the background of the growing towns woven in?the political strategies growing from jealousies, the growth of pride in community achievements, patriotism when war looms, the gloom cast over the nation when the beloved Lincoln is assassinated. We see the universal in the particular when the author portrays the grief of one of Lincoln's great admirers, serious, LESSON DEPARTMENT deep-souled Henry Martin. After his brother had called to him, "Lincoln's been shot!" Henry left his team standing in the field and hurtied to join the other members of the family at the fence. Then he began to talk. His sister suddenly realized she had never heard him in all her life say more than three or four sentences at a time. But now he spoke without pause: "There was never anybody like him. He was different from all other men, I tell you. Somethin' set him apart. I don't know what. I doubt if anybody knows... Or ever will.... I never saw him in my life, and yet I know him well. Like a close friend. Times when I've been plowin' or plantin' and harvestin' it almost seems he's been walkin' along side o' me...." etc. (p. 452) THE CHARACTERS: The characters are realized in such a novel as Song of Years largely through their relation to the setting. It is the setting that makes the characters what they are. 'To an extent, also, the characters make the setting what it is. 'The leading men mold the two growing towns in Red Cedar Valley. Men like Lincoln mold the nation. But the environment affects the individuals. Wayne Lockwood, the leading man in the story, is a different man from what he would have been had he not followed his dream of a home in a land of greater opportunity across the continent, if he had not struggled to build that home, adjusted to a new set of customs and ideals. Rivals, like Cady Bedson, challenge his courage and resourcefulness from the beginning to the end of the story. Men such as his friendly neighbor, Jeremiah Martin, stimulate his ambitions and his ideals. He is 65 not perfect. He goes on for years blind to the love of a real woman and falls under the deceptive glamour of a false one. He allows personal interests to defer his entering the war when most patriotic men are sacrificing every selfish interest for their country. But he is more good than bad, more strong than weak, and he triumphs over his weaknesses and makes his greatest dreams come true. (A few of the pages revealing his character are: 3 to 38; 62; 156ff; 25off; 336ff; 347ff; 371.) The chief character is Suzanne Martin, whose story the author tells us in the first chapter of the novel. We see all that happens through the personality of Suzanne, who changes during the progress of the novel from an immature, dreaming girl, the favorite of her father and brothers, to a mature woman. She is not understood by her realistic sisters, because she lives part of the time in the world of imagination and make-believe. Misunderstanding and sorrow are experiences which bring about the development of her rich and gentle nature. (Her character is revealed in sections such as those on pp. 29; 58; 284; 290; 322; 355ff; 363; 382; 405; 433; 472ff. ) Suzanne's father, Jeremiah Martin, is genial, talkative, politicalminded, ready to give service wherever and whenever it is needed. He is very independent, declaring that he would "rather raise skunks for a living than work for anyone else." He is laughed at by his children, who, nevertheless, adore him and feel that "the country just couldn't get along without him, nor the valley?maybe the whole state." (Pages revealing some of his characteristics are: 28ff; 115ff; 141; 165; 201; 272; 415; 410; 480. ) Sarah, the mother, is sharptongued, sometimes complaining. She feels that Jeremiah is more interested in doing for others than for his own and that she must use drastic measures to secure comforts for herself and family. She is practical, capable, and, as Pa says, "nobody's fool?smart. As horse-radish, Ma is." She is a lieutenant in her own home; she makes Christmases, weddings, etc., memorable occasions, marshalling her seven daughters with skill. She is a practical nurse, with courage and sheer force of will to defeat death when it comes to claim her loved ones. (Illuminating passages are found on the following pages: 116; 153ff; 268.) The seven Martin sisters are individualized in a remarkable manner. Each one stands out in some interesting way. Emily is the stayat-home, who secretly loves Wayne but is too noble to try to win him when she knows that Suzanne, her baby sister, loves him too. She is so self-sacrificing that she makes over her own best dress as a wedding dress for her sister. Sabina is generous, giving freely to her family after her successful marriage. When she discovers that she will never be a mother, she does not allow her disappointment to narrow her life as some women do. Instead, she sublimates her disappointment in noble war work. Jeanne is high spirited and lovable. She likes all the young men but, ironically, chooses the wrong one for her mate and has anything but a happy married life. And so with the other girls and the two Martin brothers, the novelist shows skill in making each different from the others, each a significant person to know. As one critic of the book says,. "The men are all industrious, optimistic individuals with their eyes fixed on the future and minds filled with the American dream; the women are helpful, self-sacrificing, simple, with infinite capacity for labor, suffering, tenderness and sympathy." In contrast to much of our presentday literature, it is refreshing to meet the characters in this novel and to feel that they are men and women such as we visit with over our back fences, people such as we are ourselves?not perfect, but with a spark of the divine. They are carriers of the American dream. In the next lesson the plot of the story will be summarized and the theme discussed. A summary of some points on the entire course will be given. Study Helps 1. Assign beforehand a very brief report on American history of the period covered by the book. Z. Discuss the setting. Point out similarities between the development of the part of Iowa pictured in the book and the development of our part of the country. The coming of the railroad, the post office, the school bell, the telegraph system, etc., make interesting topics. 3. Which one of Suzanne's sisters do you find most interesting? Why? (Several short responses could be given.) 4. Compare the wholesome, happy life in the Martin family with that of some large Utah families you know, pointing out the distinct advantages members of large families have. 5. Compare the types of characters in this book with the sordid, futile characters in some well-known recent novel and draw conclusions as to the relative values to be gained from knowing both types. 

 ?JANUARY, 1941