Vol. XXVIII JANUARY, 1941 No. 1  EDITORIAL 9 The Power of Adversity THE year 1940 has passed into history, and the bells have rung in a new year. With the advent of a new year, a feeling of "beginning anew" pervades. Ambitions are stirted, hopes are raised, and a determination to make the new year profitable exists in the heart of nearly everyone. Each of us would ask many choice gifts of the future, earnestly desiring that the path be made pleasant and that he be spared trial, hardship, disappointment and other difficult experiences. How fortunate it is that the desires of our hearts are not always granted! The easy road is not always the profitable one; the pleasant experience is not always the one that contributes most to one's well-being. The Lord has said, "My people must be tried in all things that they may be prepared to receive the glory that I have for them, even the glory of Zion; and he that will not bear chastisement is not worthy of my kingdom." (Doctrine and Covenants, 136:31) It is a proved truth that "the pursuit of easy things makes men weak" while a mastery of the difficult makes men strong. "The reward of struggle is strength: muscle, nerve, grit, skill, integrity, intelligence; and all this is character?manhood." The development of strong character?manhood?is the goal of life. He who achieves this goal, difficult though his experiences may have been, is indeed blessed. The same experiences are not equally difficult for all people, nor do they try everyone to the same degree. What would be hard and bitter for one might not be so for another. But to each, there seems to come some experiences which are particularly difficult for him and which peculiarly try him. As he masters these difficulties, he grows to his fullest stature. Opportunities for character development come to everyone through the same channel?experience. Even the chosen of the Lord have not been spared trial. When the Prophet Joseph Smith was incarcerated in Liberty Jail, he was called upon to endure hardships which were extremely revolting to his refined and EDITORIAL sensitive nature. Not only were high-handed injustice and cruelty practiced upon him, but the food was filthy, he was compelled to hear nothing but blasphemous oaths and to witness scenes of drunkenness and debauchery of every description. Out of the midst of his tribulations, he called upon God in passionate earnestness: "O God! Where art thou? And where is the pavilion that covereth thy hiding place?... How long shall thy hand be stayed, and thine eye... Behold from the eternal heavens, the wrongs of thy people, and thy servants, and thine ear be penetrated with their cries?... O Lord... Stretch forth thy hand;... Let thine heart be softened, and thy bowels toward us." And God answered the cries of the Prophet, and said:. "My son, peace be unto thy soul; thine adversity and thine afflictions shall be but a small moment; and then, if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high... If thou art called to pass through tribulation, if thou art in perils among false brethren, if thou art in perils among robbers, if thou art in perils by land or by sea, if thou art accused with all manner of false accusations, if thine enemies fall upon thee, if they tear thee from the society of thy father and mother and brethren and sisters, and if with a drawn sword thine enemies tear thee from the bosom of thy wife and thine offspring... If thou shouldst be cast into the pit, or into the hands of murderers, and the sentence of death passed upon thee, if thou be cast into the deep, if the billowing surge conspire against thee, if fierce winds become thine enemy, if the heavens gather blackness, and moved with compassion 41 all the elements combine to hedge up the way; and above all, if the very jaws of hell shall gape open the mouth wide after thee, Know thou, my son, that all these things shall give thee experience, and shall be for thy good." Those who have achieved true greatness in this world have not done so because the way was made easy, but rather because they could rise above the dull level of yielding and master the stern things of life. Paul Speicher has said: "Cripple him and you have a Sir Walter Scott. "Put him in a prison cell and you have a John Bunyon. "Bury him in the snows of Valley Forge and you have a George Washington. "Have him born in abject poverty and you have a Lincoln. "Deny her sight and speech and you have a Helen Keller. "Bind him down with bitter racial prejudice and you have a Disraeli. "Put him in the grease pit of a locomotive roundhouse and you have a Walter P. Chrysler." And we might add: "Have him reared by a widowed mother under the hardships of pioneer life and you have a Heber J. Grant." The hardships of life are sent us not by an unkind destiny to crush us, but rather by a kind destiny to challenge the best that is in us. Being children of the Father, we have within us resources of strength and power great enough to enable us to rise above adversity. Our prayer for the new vear should not be that the road be made easy, but rather that we be made strong. No TO THE FIELD PAMPHLETS TO BE DISTRIBUTED AN interesting and informative article entitled "The Injurious Effects Resulting from the Moderate Use of Alcohol" is now being published by the General Campaign Committee on the Non-Use of Liquor and Tobacco. The article is by L. Mervin Maus, Colonel, U. S. Army Medical Corps, Department Surgeon, who graphically and convincingly presents the evils resulting from the moderate use of alcoholic beverages. Condemning the constantly increasing popularity of social drinking, Doctor Maus reports its effect upon thousands of the most progressive intellects of the country. He refers to these people as "the brilliant handicapped." Of particular interest to mothers are the startling statistics with regard to children born of parents who are alcohol addicts. These statistics are alarming in view of the presentday increase in the use of alcohol among women. The pamphlet containing Doctor Maus' article will soon be off the press and will be distributed by the Relief Society. We urge that those who are assigned the responsibility of distributing this pamphlet be not only diligent in placing it in the homes, but also in impressing those to whom it is presented with the importance of carefully reading the article. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE HONOR ROLL CORRECTIONS THE following reports were inadvertently omitted from the Relief Society Magazine honor roll, published in the December issue of the Magazine: Stake Ward Nevada McGill Twin Falls Filer Branch Union LaGrande First Wells Whittier Subscriptions Enrollment Magazine No. Pct. Representative 75 110 147 Louise Johnson 19 20 105 Mrs. Luna Cazier 52 71 137 Emma Stringham 138 108 78 Catherine Sturgell In printing the name of the Magazine representative of the North Shore Ward, Chicago Stake, an error was made. This ward is Oveile Olesen. The representative of An error was made in publishing the name of Thelma Anderson as Magazine representative of the Avenal Branch, California Mission. Ruth Beckstrom is Magazine representative of this branch. The General Board greatly appreciates the services and splendid accomplishments of Magazine representatives and is very proud of the achievements of the stakes and wards, missions and branches. We sincerely regret omissions and errors occurring in the honor roll.