Social Service EDUCATION FOR FAMILY LIFE ~ Family Relationships Lesson 6 Home Owning or Home Renting (Tuesday, April 22, 1941) HE problem of shelter is one of those problems with which every person, young or old, married or single, is confronted. Even though the person may not be responsible for providing his own shelter, he is concerned with that which is provided for him. The great majority of people, however, do not consider the problem seriously until they begin to plan for marriage, at which time, to most young people of today, it becomes an almost insurmountable obstacle.: Probably every landlord who has apartments for rent has had the experience of facing the disappointed, discouraged expression on the faces of young couples who, after they have inspected the apartment, learn that the amount of rent asked is far beyond what their budget will allow for shelter, even after every possible economy has been figured in. If already married, the young couple may choose between taking an apartment quite different from the cozy, cheery one they had pictured in their minds or they may devise means whereby they can increase their income. About the only way this can be achieved in the immediate future is for the wife to get a job. Then, with the two incomes, they can manage to secure the standard of housing of which they had dreamed ?but what a price they pay. The great majority of young people, even before they are married, cherish the dream of someday owning their own home, and, sooner or later, the moment arrives when they must decide whether they shall build or buy a home for themselves or continue to live in rented quarters. And we may add that all too many couples make their decision on the basis of an insufficient knowledge of the facts upon which such an important decision should be determined. It shall not be the purpose in this discussion to suggest that any particular family, or families in general, should rent or should own their own shelter, but rather to emphasize the fact that each case must be decided according to the specific circumstances surrounding the particular family, and to point out some of the major advantages and disadvantages with which the home owner and the renter are faced, also to present a few basic points that should be considered in selecting shelter, whether owned or rented. In discussing family housing, Howard E. Bigelow lists the following arguments as those most frequently presented in favor of renting: It costs less to rent than to own. For the same expenditure, a family can maintain a higher shelter standard by renting than by owning. The family renting its home pays for shelter as it goes. By investing in sound securities the amount it would spend if it bought a home, it can frequently secure a larger return upon its investment. The renting family is in no danger from loss of capital through decline in property values. If rents decline, the renter can benefit from reductions in shelter costs. The renter's chief obligation is the payment of a periodic sum. The renting family has no responsibility for the management of the property in which it lives. If it rents an apartment, it may have no responsibility for providing heat, utilities, or for assuming any other operating expenses. The renter is free to move at any time when conditions become unsatisfactory, or when better housing is available elsewhere. The renter can, therefore, adjust more easily to changing shelter needs. If his income is radically reduced, he can move to less expensive quarters to bring his shelter expense into line with his income. He is not faced with fixed charges for maintaining his home. If his income increases, he can move to a better neighborhood. The renter can bargain better than can the home owner in selling his services to his employer. He can move to another town if necessary in order to take advantage of promotions. In case he loses his job, he is not tied to the community in which he lives by his investment in his home. The same author says, "The usual arguments in favor of home ownership run somewhat as follows: It costs less to own than to rent. Home ownership reduces shelter costs to a definitely known figure. The family that owns its home is not subject to rent increases. A family can reduce shelter costs by making its own repairs. Home ownership induces _ thrift, especially if the home is purchased on the installment plan. A home is a safe investment for a family. The family may profit from increases in property values. A family that owns its own home finds it easier to establish its credit. Home ownership is a means of establishing financial independence. Home ownership makes the family independent of control by a landlord. There are no restrictions upon children. There are no limits to the size of the family. There are no restrictions upon pets. The family is free to make such alterations and improvements in its home as it pleases. The family can secure healthful exercise from work around the home. A neighborhood of owned homes is usually better kept up than is a neighborhood made up largely of rental property. Home ownership provides security for the family. It assures the members of the family of a home in their old age. It guarantees them a place to live during periods of unemployment. It provides them with a permanent environment.. Home ownership makes it unnecessary for the family to be adjusting continually to new conditions. Home ownership in many cases increases the family's social prestige and strengthens its position in the community. Home owners are considered to be permanently identified with the community. They are expected to assume more civic responsibility. Their voice has more weight in community affairs. It is of interest to note that both lists of arguments begin with the declaration that it costs less. People, generally, are agreed that it costs more to own than to rent.
