NOTES TO THE FIELD 43 "THE JESSE KNIGHT FAMILY" A BOOK entitled "The Jesse Knight Family," by J. William Knight, is a new publication of local interest. The book is a short biography of the late Jesse Knight, with sidelights on his forebears and family; his daughter, Inez, was for many years a member of the Relief Society General Board. That such a book should have been written is important. Jesse Knight is perhaps one of the most unique figures in the history of the Church and state. As a churchman, his religion expressed itself not only in individual observance of Latter-day Saint standards, but in conducting the many communities which he established in harmony with these standards. He contributed generously of his wealth to the Brigham Young University and to furthering other work of the Church. Healso assisted individuals within the Church. As a publicspirited citizen, his clear vision enabled him to see the needs of pioneer communities. His great foresight, coupled with the mental capacity to grasp a situation in its entirety, his inexhaustible energy, and his generous heart enabled him to realize most of his ambitions for the development of the country. As a boy, Jesse Knight knew nothing but hardships; as a man, he amassed a fortune. He attributed his ability to accumulate wealth to spiritual guidance and regarded himself as merely the custodian of this wealth. He believed it to be his responsibility to dispense the wealth which came to him for the advancement of the Church, for the development of the natural resources of the country, to provide employment for the needy, and to help mankind generally. His biography acquaints the reader with a genuinely great soul. It leaves one impressed with the fact that the noblest life is the one devoted to working for the good of mankind; that the greatest wealth one can leave his posterity isan honored name. The author, J. William Knight, is the second son of Jesse and Amanda McEwan Knight. He was closely associated with his father in most of his business enterprises and enjoyed a close companionship with him. He presents Jesse Knight to the reader as a far-sighted humanitarian. The book is a valuable addition to the historical biographies of the Church and state. BOUND VOLUMES THOSE desiring to have their 1940 issues of the Relief Society Magazine bound, may do If Magazines are furnished with the so through the office of the General Board. Order, the cost of cloth binding, including index, is $1.50 and the cost of leather binding, including index, is $2.00. There will be an additional charge of $1.00 if Magazines are furnished by this office. Those desiring to bind Magazines themselves may purchase materials through this office. A package containing enough material to bind 12 books sells for $3.15; these packages will not be broken in order to sell smaller amounts. Indexes will be furnished free of charge upon request. Address all orders to Relief Society  , Utah.