LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology and Testimony Lesson 7
Family Life, An Eternal Unit?Joseph F. Smith (Tuesday, April 1, 1941)
"... If a man marry a wife by my word, which is my law, and by the new and everlasting covenant, and it is sealed unto them by the Holy Spirit of promise... it... shall be of full force when they are out of the world;... therefore shall they be from everlasting to everlasting." (Doctrine and Covenants 132:19-20)
SPEAKING at a conference of the stake in Juab in 1869, President Woodruff said of Joseph F. Smith, "Look at him, my children, for he resembles the Prophet Joseph more than any living man. He will become president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints." When he did become its president thirty-two years later, in October, 1901, he was the first person to achieve this position who had been born and reared within the Church. Of the sixty-three years that he had lived, thirty-five had been devoted to Church work as an Apostle; and during more than twenty years he had served as a counselor to Presidents Taylor, Woodruff, and Snow.
ABILITY AS A LEADER IN TEMPORAL AFFAIRS
Prior to his elevation to the Presidency, Joseph F. Smith had devoted the major portion of his Church service to the promotion of spiritual matters in the wards, stakes and missions. However, he soon gave evidence of keen insight into temporal matters as well as spiritual concerns. He continued the financial policies of President Snow with such success that by 1907 the bonded indebtedness of the Church had been paid off, and he could announce that the Church was able to meet its obligations as they arose. The continued wisdom in the expenditure of Church funds enabled the Church to commence a more rapid expansion of its influences throughout the world. Numerous ward and stake houses were erected, mission homes and mission chapels were acquired, and missionary work was augmented financially in keeping with the changing economic conditions of the missionaries and the demands of the mission fields. Numerous shrines of early Church history were acquired in Vermont, New York and Missouri. The Church undertook the construction of its first hospital in Salt Lake and erected its Bishop's Building and magnificent Church Administration Building to house the various offices of the rapidly growing Church. In addition, President Smith selected and dedicated sites for Temples in Hawaii and Canada.
Much adverse criticism was heaped upon the Church in general and President Smith personally for this apparent outward show of what was termed a growing "worldliness" on the part of the Church. President Smith, however, had a broader vision than his small-souled critics. He made little distinction between the temporal and spiritual, or the earthly and the eternal, and viewed them as being integrally associated. He replied, "It has always been a cardinal teaching with the Latter-day Saints that a religion that has not the power to save people temporally and make them prosperous and happy here, cannot be depended upon to save them spiritually and exalt them in the life to come."
OUTSTANDING CONVICTIONS OF HIS LIFE
As one reads extracts from the numerous sermons and writings of this sixth President of the Church, it becomes apparent, because of the frequency with which they are stressed, that two convictions actuated him in all of his conduct and teachings: first, his testimony of Jesus and His atoning work; second, the unwavering certainty of the divinity of the Prophet Joseph Smith's mission and the reality of the truths that were revealed through him. In these revelations of God's plan of salvation, he saw that human personality and human relationships were the fundamentals that would survive in the eternities, if obedience to God's will had been shown during mortality.
FAMILY LIFE
Those who personally remember President Smith can recall that one of the outstanding characteristics of his life was the love he manifested for his family. He was never too busy to be of assistance to a little child, or to counsel someone concerning home and family life. He believed that the home was the best possible place for the training of children and stressed the responsibility of parents to win the love, admiration, and confidence of their children. His writings reveal that he considered his wives and children as his most worthwhile possessions, and felt his eternal happiness would be dependent upon their faithfulness to the Gospel. He was confident that marriage was a God-ordained and God-sanctioned institution, not something that man or society had created. The marriage relation was, he taught, one of holiness?a relation into which every capable soul was expected to enter. The obligation of bringing children into the world was a responsibility that God placed on every mortal. He was firm in his view that no man should rule his wife or children by force or tyranny. Love was to be the only power used for control. Throughout his long and active life, he constantly placed his obligation toward his families as paramount, and he left behind a numerous posterity which manifests that he practiced within his own family the principles of kindness, love and consideration which he so often preached in public.
THE ETERNITY OF FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS
Not only did President Smith hold lofty conceptions of the place of family life in society and the Church, but he also was firm in his conviction that family relationships should have eternal existence. He had the prophetic ability of gaining a long-range view of the eternities
 ?JANUARY, 1941 LESSON DEPARTMENT
and saw that earth life was but a temporary halting place in the onward march of personal existence. In answer to the query, "Why did God teach us the eternal union of man and wife?" he answered: "Because God knew that we were... to remain His children forever and ever, and that we are just as truly individuals, and that our individuality was as identical as that of the Son of God, and would therefore continue, worlds without end, so that the man receiving his wife by the power of God, for time and for all eternity, would have the right to claim her and she to claim her husband in the world to come. Neither would be changed, except from mortality to immortality; neither would be other than himself or herself, but they will have their identity in the world to come precisely as they exercise their individuality and enjoy their identity here."
This concept influenced his teaching. He taught that the ultimate happiness of immortality would depend upon the success with which a family was able to train its members to obey the laws of God and thus gain salvation. This made him solicitous of the welfare of all those connected with him. In respect to this, he said, "Nobody has more interest in the welfare of my own children than I have. I cannot be satisfied without them. They are part of me. They are mine. God has given them to me, and I want them to be humble and submissive to the requirements of the Gospel. I want them to be... worthy of the distinction that the Lord has given them in being numbered among his covenant people...."
It is interesting to read his state-
57
ments concerning the motives that prompted him in selecting and dedicating the sites for the temples in Hawaii and Canada. It is true, of course, that he was thinking of salvation for the dead as part of the augmented temple program. However, he publicly said that for many it had been impossible to make the long and expensive journey to one of the Utah temples in order to be properly married. These new temples?to be followed by others, to serve remote sections of the Church population?would make temple marriages, the only valid form of marriage in God's sight, more readily available for great numbers of the young people.
HIS VISION OF THE REDEMPTION OF THE DEAD
On October 3, 1918, shortly before his death, President Smith received a vision in regard to the method of missionary work among the disembodied spirits. This vision indicates that he had long pondered the problems connected with making family ties complete in the patriarchal lineages. Shortly before he closed his mortal career, the Lord granted him this vision to enlighten the world concerning this process. It was submitted to and approved by his counselors, the Quorum of the Twelve, and the Presiding Patriarch, on October 31, 1918.
THE MARKS OF A TRUE SERVANT OF GOD
For many years, President Smith was the target for some of the vilest newspaper and periodical attacks to which any person has been subjected. In addition, his family life was openly ridiculed, and he was personally insulted and annoyed by forces that were arrayed against him and the Church. Through it all, he manifested the Christ-like qualities of impersonal justice, absolute honesty, absolute sincerity, unselfishness, freedom from the spirit of retaliation, unfailing love for all men, and a calm self-control. Before he died, those of his former opponents who had once bitterly maligned him had come to see his sterling worth and were eulogistic of his greatness.
Questions and Problems for Discussion
1. What were the outstanding accomplishments of the Church during the presidency of Joseph F. Smith?
2. What factors made President Smith a worthy successor to his predecessors in the office of President of the Church?
3. Name the two dominant ideas that characterized the teachings of President Smith.
4. How do you account for the central place he gave to the eternity of the family relationships in his teachings?
Topics for Study and Special Reports
1. Have some class member who personally remembers President Smith relate some character-revealing incident from his life which reveals his love for children.
2. Review his description of the ideal home, recorded on pp. 378-380 of Gospel Doctrine.
3. Make a report of the word picture of President Smith made by Judge Charles C. Goodwin (a non-Mormon). Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. VI, pp. 477-478.
4. Relate some of the incidents which indicate his solicitude for children, as found on pages 441-442 of the Life of Joseph F. Smith, by Joseph Fielding Smith.
5. Give a review of his "Vision of the Redemption of the Dead," found on pp. 466-471 of the Life of Joseph F. Smith by Joseph Fielding Smith, or pp. 596-601 of Gospel Doctrine.
References
B. H. Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. VI, pp. 368-388; 418-421; 433-434; and 476-478. Joseph F. Smith, Article in Relief Society Magazine, June, 1917, p. 314 ff. Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, especially Chapter XVI, pp. 341-399 and Chapter XXIV, pp. 538-603. Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, pp. 623-625 and 631-637. Joseph Fielding Smith, Life of Joseph F. Smith, especially pp. 440-486. Joseph Fielding Smith, "Character of a Great Leader," Deseret News, Church Section, November 12, 1938.