HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon JANUARY—Each day brings its tasks, delights and sorrows. Grieve not for the yesterdays nor dread the dim tomorrows. Mrs. CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT, in her address at the Woman's Centennial Congress held in New York last month, urged the women of the Congress to go forward more rapidly, to gain office and recognition, to utilize the rights women won two decades ago, to help free mankind from totalitarianism. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, president of the Relief Society, and Mrs. Lucy Grant Cannon, president of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, were among the delegates from Utah to this Congress of distinguished women. MATILDA R. WILSON has received the appointment of Lieutenant Governor of the State of Michigan—the first woman to receive this high honor.  DOROTHY TAGNEY, a school teacher, is the first woman senator in the Australian parliament. MRS. AUGUST BELMONT, for her contributions to the theatre, the opera and the fields of social service and philanthropy, has been awarded. The medal for eminent achievement given by the American Woman's Association. NANCY ASTOR, American-born viscountess, declared in Parliament recently that English women were showing more courage than men during the distressing conditions of the incessant bombing of London and other cities. THE DUCHESS OF ATHOL, another woman member of Parliament, is known as an ardent Red Cross worker and strong supporter of the policies of Prime Minister Churchill. HERMAN women are replacing men in the postal service and are now uniformed and driving trucks, as the men are all engaged in the war against Britain. MISS LYDE WELLS, 81, sister of President Rulon S. Wells of the Council of Seventy, died last month. She was a woman of brillant mind with a keen sense of humor, both of which stood her in good stead through long years of enforced invalidism. GIGRID UNSET, Norwegian novelist, is now a refugee in the United States. She lost a son during the Nazi seizure of Norway. LILY PONS, Metropolitan opera star, expresses great happiness because of the fact that she is now an American citizen. A number of foreign artists have also learned that here only is real democracy. HELEN HAYES has gained another triumph in histrionic art, in Shakespeare's "T'welfth Night." She plays Viola in a humorous and captivating manner. 'The historic London theatre, where "Twelfth Night" was first played 350 years ago, was destroyed by German bombs last month.  

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 Editor - - -  Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman