The Benediction Maryhale Woolsey ATIENTLY, Hester sat in the small, straight chair. Her hands were folded in her grey silk lap; her feet, in fine kid slippers, were set neatly on the carpet. Her tired eyes sought, in turn, a narrow vista of garden through a window on her left, a photograph of her granddaughter, Sara Mae, on the desk opposite, or wandered aimlessly about the room, still strange after three long days and longer nights. Now and then, she moved slightly to ease her position. It was wearisome, sitting in the small, straight chair. There was a more comfortable one, a cushioned armchair; but it was in full view of two great mirrors, which Hester did not like. Mirrors were not kind to an old woman, bent and wrinkled and gray. _ Besides, from the armchair she could not see the garden, which was her greatest interest. She hoped it would be dry enough tomorrow for her to walk in the garden. It had trim beds and borders, with careful little walks between, exquisite pools and statuary, seats in delightful nooks. It had many flowers whose names Hester did not know, but it also had many of her old favorites—particularly, at this season, the iris. "Flags," she used to call them. 'The sight of them always brought memories of those other days, when her garden was a tin plot of ground close by the kitchen door; she could run out between pot-watchings to pull weeds or to transplant something. She'd always loved flowers.... Perhaps tomorrow she could be out, among them.... This was the last day she would have to spend in the big guest room, Renee had said. Her own room would be ready for her tonight, the cleaning and redecorating over with for another year. Hester sighed. 'The time had been so long. She hoped they hadn't made many changes to which she must become accustomed. She'd have the same furniture, anyway; Renee had said so, half apologetically, as if half ashamed. And there would be the wide window with her rocking-chair beside it, and, of course, "The Blessing." 'There would always be "The Blessing," which, ever since John died, almost forty years ago (she always remembered that with a sense of shock), had been her daily renewal of peace and faith. John had given her ""The Blessing" on their twentieth wedding anniversary—the "God Bless Our Home" motto, wreathed in red roses with blue forget-me-nots and feathery green ferns, behind a convex glass with a wide, gilded frame. It was John's unceasing message to her that all was well. It would be good to lie in her own bed tonight, knowing that "The Blessing" was shining down on her through the darkness. Three days... She'd felt like a prisoner in the awesome guest room. Two days had been stormy; her rheumatism had been worse, and she couldn't go downstairs at all. Not that it mattered; except for her own, the downstairs rooms were not friendly to Hester. They were designed for people like Renee—well-dressed, busy, capable persons with complicated interests. People of this type, though always kind and polite, made Hester feel exceedingly inferior. So, as Renee had pointed out, staying upstairs really was best—best, even with the mirrors and the strange, modernistic furniture and the loneliness. The loneliness was worst. Hester's life had been hard, but never lonely. There had been so many things to do; time flew. Now, no tasks demanded accomplishment; everything was done for her. "You've worked too hard all your life, Mother," Renee often said. "Now you can take things easy." Take things easy! A maid looked after her every need. She brought fresh clothing every morning, turned water into the shiny tub for her bath, fetched towels, fragrant powder, silky underthings; carried her meals, savory and faultlessly served on big trays; asked solicitously, many times daily, "Don't you wish something, Mrs. Page?" She made her bed each morning, removed the satin spread and turned down the covers each evening. Hester had all her time to use "as she pleased"—but there was nothing to do. She sat alone with her memories, waiting for the end. OUTSIDE, below the window, sudden activity drew Hester's attention. One of the cleaners had come out of the service door and started down the back path. Carelessly swinging from one hand was something that flashed in the sunshine. Hester caught her breath. It was ""The Blessing"! What was that young man doing with it? She stood up for a better view. The young man was heading straight for the service alley... Setting "The You want to keep it. Blessing" down by a tall ash can. He was throwing it away—trash, to be carried away with ashes and tin cans! The only treasure she had left of all the little treasures John had given her! With a sobbing cry, Hester hurried out into the hall. Polished stair treads gleamed at her tauntingly; she dared not try to descend. She called down, her voice quivering: "Renee! Renee!" Slim and energetic at fifty-one in her dark frock, Renee appeared below. "Yes, Mother?" "Renee! They're throwing away my 'Blessing'! I saw...." "Oh.". Annoyed, Renee came briskly up. "Yes, I know, Mother. An accident... It's... Broken." Swiftly Hester answered, "But... we can get anew... Glass. Renee,.. Make him bring it back!" "But you see, the picture is... Damaged, too. I'm sorry, Mother,... But we can't... Repair it. Accidents will happen." Renee's arm around Hester's shoulders, she began to lead her gently but firmly back into the guest room. Hester quivered with indignation. Renee was not sorry, she told herself. Renee considered "The Blessing" a "gaudy hold-over from an age of sentimentality"; she'd said so. Renee was glad of an excuse for getting rid of the too-bright roses, the too-ornate lettering. "That 'Blessing'," Hester protested weakly, "was the only thing left that your pa gave me." "I know. Also, it has belonged to you for more than forty years. I know all that, Mother," Renee said, mercilessly kind. "But... Accidents will... 

 —JANUARY, 1941

 THE BENEDICTION please do be sensible. You'll get over it in time." She patted Hester's trembling shoulders. "Please excuse me, Mother. I have to give directions...." The door closed behind her capable back. Slowly Hester returned to the small, straight chair. Biting her lips, once more she folded her hands in her lap. She could sit with folded hands... And remember. Only remembering was left to her. O swiftly the years seemed to have gone, now that she looked back —three-quarters of a century of memories, in a long, hurrying parade. Hester could look down a broad, paved street and see a stretch of gray sagebrush among which she'd gathered sego lilies and Indian paintbrush and sunflowers by the armful. She could remember tall trees as spindling little saplings, brave in their first year's growth. She could gaze at a great office-building and recall a rough-lumber shack that once had occupied the same location. Sometimes she longed for the old space and freedom and peace, yet she liked to remember that she and John had helped build this fine, new world. But John, she thought, would not have enjoyed this hectic new century. John had loved the wilds—the wide free range, long still trails, starlit nights, the smell of sagebrush after rain. He'd be shocked at the modern devotion to luxury, the craze for speed and excitement. He'd never be contented in a small room or a formal garden. Maybe it was as well he had gone, before the coming of these things. It hadn't been easy for Hester 21 afterward. But John's foresight had provided means for educating his children. And they'd made good, all of them! John Junior was vice-president of a flourishing chain of banks, Robert a prominent surgeon, Ruth a well-known artist. And Renie, the baby—having changed her name to Renee—had gone in for service clubs and politics and was widely known as an ardent worker for "the public good." Duty to "society" was her life's motive. She had finally married, at thirty-two; it was a woman's duty, she'd said, to marry and have children. Hester had been deeply shocked then, and many times, by Renee's views. Sometimes she was almost afraid of her youngest daughter. It had been Renee who'd insisted on "taking care of Mother," when the children had decided she must no longer be permitted to stay alone in the little half-century-old adobe house. They'd meant to be kind, and Hester knew that it hurt her sons' and daughters' pride to have her live in the "old shack," but the leaving of it marked the end of her happy years. At that time, Hester had given up all the old possessions that had been dear to her—all, that is, except "The Blessing," with which she had stubbornly refused to part. "But, Mother," Renee had argued, "it just doesn't belong in our decorative scheme." "No more do I," Hester had answered. "I'll be a stranger in a strange place, the rest of my days. But this and me—we stick together. It's all I've got that ever was touched by your pa's hands...." Finally, Renee had given in, and "The Blessing" came to her big, fine house to hang conspicuously in the room she'd built, with its own shiny 'bathroom, for Hester. Oh, Renee had been wonderful to her mother. And the others had been kind, too; everyone remarked how devoted to their mother the Pages were. She should have been perfectly happy, Hester told herself, but there was the loneliness. Everyone had so many things to do; their visits were so short, with such long times between. The grandchildren were busy, too. Young folks nowadays seemed to have more activities and interests than days had hours to indulge them. Hester hardly knew her grandchildren. Even Renee's boy and girl, though living beneath the same roof, were almost strangers to their mothers mother. 'The boy, Bob, usually rushed off to school, picked up breakfast and lunch at a cafeteria, and might or might not come home to dinner. He was seventeen, had his own car, his allowance, and his "crowd" of friends, who never seemed to stop in their hectic race. "Gotta go" seemed to be their favorite saying. The girl, Sara Mae, Hester thought she could love dearly if given a chance to get acquainted. Sara Mae was twelve, a tall slender child with a face which Hester thought the most wistful she had ever seen. Her big brown eyes looked shadowed and unhappy. Yet she had everything, from her own shelves of books and a kitten in the comer of the garage, to a pretentious playhouse at the end of the garden. She played the piano well, sang well, danced a little—swift, exact tap-tap-taps on the hardwood floors. But between her and her grandmother there was little contact. And so, for the most part, Hester was alone—with folded hands, patient, useless. And now, even ""The Blessing," which had for so many years been to her the voice of her beloved husband lingering to comfort her, was gone, too—gone with the rest of the "trash." THE little downstairs room was not the same. It was beautiful, yes—but strange, as she had feared. Hester was grateful when darkness veiled the changes, when she sat in her rocker and rocked herself to drowsiness. And she was glad to snuggle at last into her bed, to close her eyes on the night. But she could not sleep. There was an emptiness around her, a hollow sort of silence that seemed to drive away slumber. Hester lay wide awake, thinking of "The Blessing" lying out there against a pile of trash. At last she could stand it no longer. Rising, she struggled into a fleecy robe and put on her slippers. Their cushioned soles made no sound as she stole to the side door and opened it. The well-oiled bolt yielded silently as she turned the key. Out under the stars, Hester felt a gleeful sense of adventure. She had never been afraid of the dark, and her only fear now was the fear of being discovered, or failing to find her way to the alley. She was unconscious of the chill dampness in the air and underfoot. She stopped short, her heart throbbing. The alley light revealed no oval frame anywhere. A moment Hester stood still, then frantically darted ahead, groping this way and that, shuffling her feet along the ground in the hope that "The Blessing" might have been shoved aside and would be lying there in the shadows, invisible. But there was no use. It was gone. Gone!
Slowly, she crept back to the house. Her feet were cold and her teeth chattered, as she felt her way back to bed. She lay trembling, shivering, until the shivering gave way to a burning and a pain in her chest.
"I can't imagine how you caught such a cold," Renee said to her the next morning. There was concern in Renee's voice, but also there was vexation. Later, Hester heard her saying to her husband, in the hall, "I'm afraid we'll have to watch her more carefully at night, Justin. Her slippers are wet; she must have wandered outside last night, maybe in her sleep!"
Hester turned her hot face to the wall. Renee thought she was getting childish.... But Hester couldn't tell what she had done. Renee couldn't, nor could Renee's husband, understand an old woman's need for a rose-wreathed "Blessing" that was broken and lost.
It was many days before she could go out again. Days when a white-clad nurse hovered constantly near; when Robert and John Junior came and stood gravely beside her bed, and once she heard them discussing with Renee the advisability of sending for Ruth. She paid scant heed. She seemed to be listening, longing for a voice—John's voice, which would say to her, "Up-a-girl, Hester! Away we go!" and there'd be a trail shining ahead.... But John did not call. Hester wondered why. It was such a long, useless wait!
THE day came when she could once more go out and wander about in the garden. It was June, and the roses were out, a wealth of color. How beautiful they were! Hester wandered among them, delighting in them. She had been unaware how far she walked, until suddenly she realized that she had come to the very farthest edge of the garden. And she was tired. Her legs had become all at once weak, as if they would give way beneath her. There was a seat a few steps away. She stumbled over to it and sat down to rest.
There, after a few minutes, she became aware of the soft, sweet voice of Sara Mae, singing—not a popular song such as she sang for guests, but a Sunday-School hymn! Hester was surprised. After a moment or two, she, too, began to sing very softly, for it would never do to let Sara Mae be startled by hearing her grandmother's cracked old voice accompanying hers.
The song ended. Sara Mae's voice had come from the playhouse, which was almost hidden in a group of shrubs not far away. On a sudden impulse, Hester decided to pay a call.
It was a wonderful playhouse. It had electric lights and a small range, hot and cold water at a tiny sink, cabinets for dishes and cooking utensils and foodstuffs, a table with chairs for four. There was a bedroom for the doll family, and the living-room had upholstered furniture, a piano and a radio. And there was a telephone, which connected with the house phone so that Sara Mae could be readily summoned. All these things Hester was thinking of as she approached the playhouse door. When Sara Mae appeared in answer to her light tapping, Hester said, formally, "How do you do? I... I thought I'd drop in, if you're receiving callers today."
Sara Mae's brown eyes widened, but she smiled shyly. "I'm happy to see you. Won't you come in?"
Hester came in. She said, as she sat on the sofa, "I haven't seen your lovely home for such a long time. You've been redecorating, haven't you?"
Sara Mae, a puzzled frown wrinkling her young brows, followed Hester's conversational cue: "Yes, just a little. And isn't it a task! I thought we'd never be finished!"
Hester had to smile—the words and tone were so like Renee's. She commented, "But it's very lovely, when you are...." Her admiring glance went around the room but suddenly stopped, words dying on her lips. There above the toy piano hung a gilded, oval frame that seemed to take up half the wall. Great roses, ludicrously oversized among the miniature furnishings of the room, looked over at Hester in a blur of red and pink, wreathing gold-lighted words: "God Bless Our Home."
Hester's role of make-believe slipped from her. She got up and went over to touch "The Blessing" lovingly, hungrily. "Why," she said, "it's only a wee bit broken. She said...."
Sara Mae stood beside her. "What's the matter, Grandmother? Didn't you want it to be thrown away?"
Hester managed to smile. "I'm... SO glad you saved it, darling! I thought it was... Lost... For certain."
"You didn't want it thrown away, did you?" Sara Mae persisted.
Hester struggled for the right words. She fingered the glass. It was broken, all right; a piece about half as big as her hand had fallen out of the frame, and there was a torn place, ever so small, in the picture itself. Hester could hardly see it. She wanted to cry, and she wanted to laugh, thinking how Renee had seized such an opportunity to get "the gaudy thing" out of her grand house.
Sara Mae was waiting. Hester turned to her at last, and said slowly, "I... Miss it, dear. I... Love it so much, because your grandpa gave it to me, and because... Well, I like what it says."
Sara Mae nodded gravely. "I do, too."
"But, of course," Hester went on with great courage, "it doesn't exactly belong in your mother's big beautiful house."
"But I liked it in your room, Grandmother," Sara Mae said. "It belongs where you are."
A warm little glow filled Hester's heart. "You're sweet, child. I'm so glad someone else loves it."
"I do." Sara Mae's head moved up and down with emphasis. "And, Grandmother, when I grow up, I'm going to have a house that will let the things I love belong in it—not just what a decorating scheme says, but what my heart says."
The small, earnest face reddened beneath Hester's startled gaze, but she went on resolutely: "Mother's house is beautiful, Grandmother. But it isn't... Blessed."
"Why, child!" Hester took her tenderly by the shoulders. "What do you mean?"
"Well, if it was blessed, it wouldn't be.... Lonesome, would it? I mean, there can be lots of people in it, but you're lonesome anyway. Oh, I don't know how to say it, but...."
"But I understand!" Hester exclaimed. She sank down again onto the toy sofa, and drew Sara Mae onto her lap. To her surprise, Sara Mae did not withdraw. She lay against Hester's heart, and the ache that had been within it was miraculously healed.
"Oh, and I know now!" Sara Mae said after a little, suddenly rising up. There was a shining something in her eyes. "It's... Love, Grandmother. Of course, I know Mother loves me, but she just says it with words, because she's so busy, you know, with duties to attend. She doesn't have time to... To say it this way—and I like this way of saying... 'loving'."
Her head came down again, to Hester's breast, which had ached for the warmth of a childish form close against it. Sara Mae's face was flushed, but her small arms clung tightly around Hester's neck.
"Bless you, darling child. And I've been needing you so!"
"Needing me? But what for?" Sara Mae asked with wonderment.
"To love me, I suppose." Hester's eyes twinkled.
"Oh!" The small figure pressed closer, and long blissful moments passed. After awhile, Sara Mae said, "Grandmother, tell me about when my mother was little. Did she look like me?"
Hester caught her breath. Oh, to have a listener who wanted to hear about the old days, the old loved times and places and persons! She opened her lips to answer, but at that moment the telephone rang. Sara Mae answered, and after a few brief words, she turned to Hester with: "We have to go now. They didn't know where you could be, Grandmother. And you were just going to tell me interesting things, weren't you?"
"Yes, dear, but we'll save them for later. You come and sit with me any time you want to, and I'll have lots of things to tell you."
"And I won't be... Pestering you?" Sara Mae asked, wistfully—revealing much, much more than she knew!
"Not a bit! You!" Hand in hand they walked slowly along the path towards the big house. There was, after all, Hester told herself, a reason why John had not called her. There was still something she could do, a child's hand she could hold, a child's heart she could help to gladden. And as long as that could be, there would be something to live for—something truly "blessed."
I'll be...