"Home Points The Way"' Anna B. Hart Relief Society General Board Member (Relief Society Conference Address, October 3, 1940) E know what the home is to true Latter-day Saints. It is a divine institution. "In it the father and the mother should stand as God's representatives, to guide and protect and rule the children and the household for God, in his stead." It is logical that the home should point the way, because its mission from the earliest times has been ordained of God. It is the oldest unit of civilization. In the home, mothers of ancient China taught politeness and obedience to their children. The children of the golden age of Greece practiced courage, temperance, wisdom and justice. "Christian parents have taught faith, hope, and love. Modern life magnifies industry, service and cooperation." Nov, I should like to list and discuss, briefly, a few signs on the guidepost which point the way. The Latter-day Saint home points the way, ultimately, to eternal life. It points the way of courage. From a mother, portrayed in a recent novel, we have these words: "There were three ways one could meet life: One could yield to it, one could run from it, or one could fight it" and win when honor, duty and religion. Were used for defense. The Latter-day Saint home points the way of faith; not only the "fairweather kind of faith, but faith that faces the blackest sky and says, 'I Trust.'" Emily Dickinson said: "T never saw a moor, T never saw the sea; Yet know I how the heather looks, And what a wave must be. "I never spoke with God Nor visited in Heaven; Yet certain am I of the spot As if the chart were given." (I Never Saw a Moor, by Emily Dickinson) In a thousand ways, we, as mothers, can plant seeds of faith in our own children, that faith "which consists of belief, plus determination on the part of the individual to respond to the requirements of God, plus an added strength and power and force for righteousness from God Himself." Man's best inheritance comes from his parents. The faith of parents in Him is one of the sublime and precious things in life and a powerful influence in the world. The Latter-day Saint home points the way to soul illumination. Many homes are shattered because the - members in them have self-blinded eyes. Soul illumination often comes through our appreciation of our Scriptures and other good literature. "Teaching a child to love books is bestowing a great gift upon him. Happiness is then always within reach of his hand. If he is lonely, he has but to turn over his hand and the richest treasures of a friend's best mood are his. If he would forget, if he would remember, if he would learn, if he would laugh or weep or exult, he has but to turn to his book shelf." (Angelo Patri) The members of every family have "HOME POINTS THE WAY" periods of perplexity. Yet, there comes a time of illumination?a time when we feel that we are in harmony with a universal purpose. Wordsworth tells of a great illumination of the soul, when after climbing a mountain for hours, he suddenly reaches the top: "Thus might we wear a midnight hour away, Ascending at loose distance each from each, And I, as chanced, the foremost of the band; When at my feet the ground appeared to brighten And with a step or two seemed brighter still; Nor was time given to ask or learn the cause, For instantly a light upon the turf Fell like a flash, and lo! As I looked up, The Moon hung naked in a firmament Of azure without cloud, and at my feet Rested a silent sea of hoary mist." (From The Prelude, Book 14, Wordsworth ) The poet is ever in search of an experience that will "lift the veil from the hidden beauty of the world," and so are we. Home points the way to peace? the kind of peace that "involves the overcoming of selfishness, unfairness and mistrust among mankind." Bryant saw in the unerring flight of the water fowl an assurance that in some way the human spirit, through all life's bewilderments, would find its haven of peace and understanding: 45 "He who, from zone to zone, Guides through the boundless sky thy certain flight, In the long way that I must tread alone Will lead my steps aright." Life need never be drab; no cloud so dark but has a bright lining; no night so dark but ends in day; no period of the world so troubled but eventually ends in peace. Home points the way to giving. The president of our great nation said, "These dark days will be worth all they cost us if they teach us that our true destiny is not to be ministered unto, but to minister to ourselves and to our fellow men." There is no greater giving than that which converts the home into a divine institution, and which promotes and upholds family life. It was through the virtue of unselfishness that "the Master made conquest of the hearts of men and drew ail men unto him. Nothing warms the hearthstone and glorifies the home more than unselfishness." Home points the way to eternal life. It is our Gospel of Jesus Christ that gives meaning and substance to all the other home virtues; in fact, they become a part of our religion. We do believe religiously in the home, and in the eternal ties, and all "the obligations and rewards" of this relationship. Yes, the Latter-day Saint home does point the way of eternal life. Oii back to Relief Society's head-waters, and following its course growth and achievement, we are stirred by a keen desire to travel on i, tte rising stream. As our numbers steadily increase, Relief Society will, like the river fed by new rains, grow from strength to ever greater strength."?Rae B. Barker, Member of Relief Society General Board.