[Vol54 | March 1967 | Page 170 | Special Feature | Setting Our Homes in Order Mary | R. Young]
weep his doorway clean, then the whole world would be clean." In other words, we begin with ourselves and set our own homes in order. To accomplish this we might keep in mind three things: (1) Teach the gospel in our homes, following the counsel and instruction of those in authority. (2) Live the gospel. (3) Service in the work of the Lord. Our homes and our society will be set in order when, by precept and example, parents teach their children to live the principles of the gospel, and when we follow the admonition of King Benjamin who said: "... When ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God"? (Mosiah 2:17). Do we teach and impress our children and grandchildren with the thought that we can best show our love for our Heavenly Father by serving him and keeping his commandments? Recently a five-year-old child asked his grandmother if she would like to go up in a rocket into outer space. She answered "No," and the usual question followed, "Why?" After explaining, she then asked him if he would like to have that experience when he got older. He thought a minute, then said: "I wouldn't be afraid. I would go if * they really wanted me to." This question is very typical of children today, but the words that impressed me were, if they really wanted me to. This young child had caught the spirit of this achievement, that if it was necessary for progress, if they really wanted him to—he wouldn't be afraid to go out into space.

Setting Our Homes in Order we could just inspire these children, help them catch the spirit and feeling of how much greater our Heavenly Father's concern is for each of his children—that he really wants us to do his will, keep his commandments, and if we follow his divine laws we will progress, we will be able to achieve the greatest goal, that of eternal life. Brother Sterling Sill said: "Certainly the greatest wonders of the future will not be in the improvement of our television or airplanes; they will be primarily in ourselves. The greater the understanding of our own future, the more effectively we will be able to prepare for it" (Improvement Era, December 1965, page 1127). This means we have to put forth effort to improve ourselves; we have to work at it, live for it, set our homes in order. Relief Society gives us the opportunity to improve, to grow and develop mentally and spiritually. We believe the Lord expects us to serve him not only with our physical things, but also with our minds, and that, therefore, we should develop our minds so that we may more effectively teach others to join with us in building the kingdom. My dear sisters, we love you for your faithful devotion and dedication to this work, for being so kind and gracious to us when we visit you in your stakes. We do love you for the service you are rendering. I humbly pray that each one of us will have a greater desire to set our homes in order and be able to say as Joshua of old, "... As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.