[Vol54 | March 1967 | Page 233 | Lesson | Homemaking Summer Months Sewing Course | Eleanor Jorgensen]
HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Dr. Eleanor Jorgensen Summer Months Sewing Course Discussion I Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, June 1967 Southern Hemisphere: November 1967 Objective: To learn the sewing skills involved in making a jumper, INTRODUCTION Home sewing is being used more and more as a means of creative expression and can be a very rewarding and exciting experience. We develop a sense of self-confidence when we have been successful in seeing a garment take complete form under our own hands, especially if the garment has been skillfully made. Such items of apparel have prestige value which gives the wearer a feeling of distinction. Our reasons for sewing are varied. For example, young mothers may sew to help stretch the family budget; career girls may sew in order to achieve more individuality and exclusiveness in their clothes; grandmothers undoubtedly sew for love of their grandchildren; and the mature overblouse or jerkin. Woman may find it necessary to make her clothes because alterations for a difficult-to-fit figure may prove costly in ready-towear. Regardless of the reason for sewing, a woman must continually use her imagination and artistic talents as she develops her skill in constructing garments.. The primary objective for the four discussions to be given during the homemaking meetings is to help the homemaker to develop sewing skills, so that she will become more competent in making clothes for herself and her family. A sleeveless overblouse (wor over a dress with sleeves) is a fairly simple and easy garment to make for the inexperienced seamstress. The same techniques 

233 March 1967

 learned on this garment may be used in making popover dresses for the small child, as well as jumpers, jerkins, and _ shiftdresses for the teenager or young adult. The interesting learning experience gained in making this garment comes from applying the facing to the neckline and armholes. Since there are few pattern pieces involved, the garment can be made quickly. If the pattern does not include the neckline and armhole facing cut in one, it can be cut very easily from the garment pattern, making certain that the combined neckline and armhole facings are cut exactly on grain the same as the garment is cut. Front Unit 1. Stay-stitch the neckline, shoulder, and armhole edges. Stay-stitching is a regular machine stitch made with matching thread, and is done through a single thickness of fabric just outside the seamline or about 14" from the cut edge. The purpose for staystitching is to keep the fabric from stretching and to hold the grainline in position. Therefore, it is essential that it be done according to the right direction. The arrows in Figure 1 indicate the correct direction, while the numbers show the sequence to follow in stay-stitching in order to minimize handling the fabric. If the neckline is V-shaped, the stay-stitching is done opposite to a rounded neckline. In other words, stitching begins at the center and goes toward the shoulder. 2. Bustline darts are sewed by folding the fabric on the pick-up line and stitching from the wide end of the dart to the point. To secure the end, the thread may be __lock-stitched, which is done by releasing the pressure foot slightly and sewing several stitches in the same spot. This eliminates having to tie threads. 3. The front facing is stay-stitched along the neck, shoulder, and armhole edges the same direction as the front 234 bodice. In addition, a stay-stitch is placed 14" from the lower edge of the facing. This edge is finished by turning it under (toward the inside) on the stay-stitched line and _ stitching close to the folded edge. (Figure 2) 4. The bodice and facing are joined by placing right sides together, garment side up, and stitching along the 54" seam allowance. Grade the seams to Y%4" and 3%", then clip. (Figure 3) In grading a seam, cut each layer of material 144" narrower than the other to eliminate bulk. 5. Understitch close to the neck edge, beginning and ending 1" from the shoulder. Understitching is a row of stitching which holds the trimmed seams to the facing, thus helping to keep the facing flat and in place. The neck edge may be pressed, if desired, by holding it in place and pressing from the facing side. (Figure 3) 6. Stitch the armhole seam (facing and garment sides together), starting 2" to 3" down from the shoulder. Grade the seam and clip. Understitch the lower part of the armhole, beginning 1" from the side seam. Repeat this procedure for the opposite armhole. (Figure 3) Back Unit The back blouse is done exactly like the front unit, omitting step 2. Joining Front and Back Units 7. The front and back shoulder seams are stitched together, with the blouse and facings being joined in one continuous operation, right sides together. (Figure 4) 8. The remaining portion of the armhole is sewed by inserting the hand between the facing and the blouse and pulling the unstitched seam inside out, then stitching it. Grade seams and clip. Understitch armhole as far as possible, beginning 1" from underarm seam. (Figure 5) 9. Sew side seams together by starting at the top of the facing and continuing down to the hem See blouse. Press the seam open. Anchor the facing in place by machine stitching through the crack of the seamline, garment side up. 10. Hem lower edge of blouse. A more professional appearance March 1967 may be achieved if interfacing is used in a lowered neckline, since it helps to give body and shape, as well as helping to eliminate stretching. A few suitable interfacing fabrics for cottons, such as broadcloth, percale, or poplin, are batiste, organdy, lawn, voile, and unbleached muslin. The interfacing is cut to follow the same shape as the front and back bodice neckline and is approximately 3" wide. The armhole is not interfaced. If the garment is to be interfaced, it is placed on the wrong side of the front and back bodice necklines and is stitched into position at the time when the staystitching is done. The two layers of fabric (blouse and interfacing) are treated as one layer during the staystitching. Instead of using the neckline and armhole facing cut as one, the garment may be completely lined with a contrasting fabric of equal weight and quality. This method would give more body, thus helping the garment retain its shape throughout its wearing. The lining is cut exactly like the rest of the garment, and the procedure for constructing it is the same in preparing the front and back units. Two methods may be used in finishing the hem or lower edge. Method A—Follow steps 1 through 9. After sewing the underarm seam, a 5" seam allowance is turned up on both the lining and the garment, and then the two edges are slipstitched by hand, making sure the stitches are made at least 4%" apart and not visible from either side. Method B—Follow steps 1 through 6, omitting the last part of step 3, which refers to the finish along the lower edge of the facing. The lower edge of the front garment is stitched by turning the two layers right sides together and sewing along the seamline. The back unit is finished the same way. To connect the front and back units together: 1. Turn the backs wrong side out. 2. Connect fronts and backs together at the side seam by matching the front lining to the back lining, and the front garment to the back garment. Stitch a continuous line, using a 54" seam allowance and sewing around the garment in a complete circle. 3. Turn right side out, press, and repeat the procedure for the opposite side. A small opening should be left in the lining sections to allow for turning the garment right side out. This opening is then slipstitched together by hand. 4. Follow step 7 to connect the shoulder seams. 5. The remaining portion of the armhole which has not been stitched is slipstitched together by hand. Many wonderful design effects may be achieved in making the _ basic sleeveless overblouse or popover dress by using a little imagination and creativity, along with the application of good design principles. Bias tubing, or flat bias may be artistically arranged at the neckline. Rickrack, appliqués using press on tapes can also be used to create an interesting design—to name a few. CAUTION: If you desire an expensive, professional look, be sure to match plaids, stripes, or checks, as you cut and seam garments.