[Vol54 | March 1967 | Page 206 | General Feature | Three-Branched Candelabrum Myrene | T. Alvord]
[Three-Branched Candelabrum Myrene T. Alvord]

three orange skins and spread over. Sprinkle sugar over the top. Roll, cut, and put into muffin tins, liberally greased with butter. Allow to rise and bake at about 300-350 degrees until brown. 208 A Daisy Luncheon for Springtime Ege Ring 10 or 12 hard-boiled eggs 1 c. Mayonnaise 1 tbsp. Unflavored gelatin Put eggs through ricer. Dissolve gelatin in water (about 14 c.). Mix together with mayonaise and set in a ring. Fill the ring with chicken salad. Chicken Salad 2 chickens boiled 1 onion saltito taste celery, about 4 pieces (stalks) 2 for cooking with chicken and 2 uncooked for salad mayonnaise, as desired for constituency and flavor Put chicken, onion, sait, and celery in enough water barely to cover. Let boil until chicken is tender. Let stand in soup over night. Chop chicken, add one or two stalks of uncooked celery, cut in pieces. Add mayonnaise and cover with fresh lemon juice. Put inside egg ring. Dessert Cut oranges in half. Squeeze out the juice. Use pinking shears to cut edges of oranges. Fill with orange sherbet. Place in freezer. Serve with any kind of cookie. THREE-BRANCHED CANDELABRUM (Continued from page 206) with an arm on each side, and the two ends will be bent up to be attached to the sides of the bottle top. The lacy effect of the "arms" is accomplished by cutting a square of net wire in size appropriate to be intertwined with the coat hanger wire which forms the central part of the arm. Roll up the square of wire into a cylinder and lace the length of the coat hanger wire through the net wire cyclinder, bending the lower end of the laced wires around the top of the candle cup and the other end around the bottle top, as needed for security and strength. Using a three-inch wide piece of chicken net wire long enough to go around the wire enclosure for the candle holders (on each side), fold the width of the net wire in half and turn up about one-fourth inch around the enclosure for the candle cup. Twist and bend the edges together and lace with fine florist wire to the bottom of the coat hanger wire enclosure. The top of the candle cup (on the fold of the mesh wire) will be without cut edges. However, the florist wire which has been laced through the cup at the bottom can be continued in a lacing (as desired) through and around the net wire to the top of the cup and thus make the cup stronger and add to the intricacy of the design. Proceed to make the two circles around the bottle in the same way as for the two side candle cups, except to vary the width of the circles as desiged. The bead edgings of the candle cups can be attached with glue, or if the beads are already strung, they can be attached with lacings of florist wire. The decorative covering for the top part of the bottle (between the top candle cup and the ornate casing around the bottle) is made of the net wire cut to fit the length and size of the upper part of the bottle used. After this piece of wire had been fitted to the bottle, it is carefully removed and taken outdoors for spraying with gold paint. Then the upper part of the bottle (later to be covered by the gold wire casing) is encrusted with jewels or colored gems as desired, using a good quality glue for making the attachments. The gold sprayed wire covering, when dry, is then carefully wrapped around the jewel-encrusted area. The candle cups and "arms" can be gold-sprayed before attaching to the bottle. The crystal "dreps'" come with hooks attached to them. 

209 March 1967

 DECORATE YOUR OWN PICTURE FRAMES (Continued from page 202) not cause concern. Nowadays, wood is purposely "distressed" to give it an antique look. Where part of the carving is broken away it is possible to restore as follows: Select a clean dry section of the frame that corresponds in pattern to the missing spot. Make a mold by painting with several coats of liquid rubber, drying well between coats. Remove carefully and mend any breaks or thin' spots with the rubber. The dry mold can be filled with plaster or a plastic filler. Let this dry, remove mold, and glue to frame. When dry use antique finish. Egg Carton and ''Gesso'"' Frames Carving can be simulated to make very attractive frames by using egg cartons and gesso (base for oil painting—available in art stores). Leaves, flowers, acorns, and other motifs are cut from the flat lid of an egg carton. These are bent carefully with the fingers until they show the desired curve and glued to a plain frame. This is painted with three or four coats of gesso, drying and sanding between coats. Different textural effects can be created with the gesso while it is wet, if desired. When dry use antique finish. Embroidery Variations For unique and ornate variations, embroidery or lace can be glued to the frame and coated with antique finish. Antique Finish A good antique finish is put on in four steps, as follows: 1. Undercoat: use flat white paint. Dry. Sand. 2. Base coat: May be off-white or tinted to harmonize with room or picture. Use semi-gloss paint or a combination of half semi-gloss and half flat paint. Dry. Sand. 3. Glaze coat: This is available in a neutral color to be tinted as desired or used as it comes in already mixed shades. Paint on, let stand a few moments, and wipe off in the high spots, leaving in recesses. Dry. 4. Highlighting: This is done with one of the creamy metallic finishes, and is applied lightly to the high spots with a finger tip or soft rag. Let dry a few moments and burnish with a dry cloth. If a splotchy effect results from lack of practice, a bit of paint thinner will soften or remove it. CS.