[Vol54 | March 1967 | Page 162 | General Feature | From Near and Far | ]

I would like to take this opportunity of expressing my gratitude for our wonderful Magazine, which has been in my home since I was baptized twelve years ago. It is wonderful to know that people living in the farthest part of the world from us think and feel as we do.

Margaret J. Jones Swanbourne Western Australia

I joined the Church in 1958 and have really enjoyed The Relief Society Magazine. The only thing I have never seen in it is a letter from any of the sisters in New Foundland. That was my home, and I would love to know if there are any L. D. S. Sisters from there who have written to the Magazine.

Teresa Joan McDaniel Hill Field, Utah

We find the Magazine a great help to us in our missionary work. The tone of the stories and articles contributes to the mental health of women of all ages in this world of confusion and big problems. In one instance, in tracting a home, I found The Relief Society Magazine. The woman had been cleaning up an empty house and had found an old copy. She and all her daughters had read it and were wanting more. From this point we were able to tell her about the Church and The Book of Mormon. She was on the top list of our investigators when we left Uvalde. I would like also to mention the serial "Wheat for the Wise" (by Margery S. Stewart, concluded in July). It is such a timely subject, beautifully written, and it is deeply moving.

Lucy H. Adams Mercedes, Texas

I have been very happy since The Relief Society Magazine has been printed in Spanish. There is an article in the very first issue (June 1966) that has helped me greatly "Our Special Garden," by Helen M. Peterson.

Maria C. De Illescas Guatemala City, Guatemala

The Relief Society Magazine is like an old friend that stops in once a month and visits, then leaves little bits of friendship, hope, courage, and knowledge to be picked up from time to time. This applies not only to me but to my husband and my son who generally have read it before I see it. We are an Air Force family and have met and learned to love the saints from all over the world who are briefly together and then scattered to the four winds. Many times I have opened the Magazine and found a letter or a picture of someone I have known. I enjoy the stories written by Frances Yost, as I remember her as a new bride coming to Bancroft, Idaho.

Marjorie Clark Updegrove Ellsworth, South Dakota

I am so grateful for the Magazine and feel that it is a source of inspiration in our home. With five busy children to care for, my husband in the bishopric, and I as Primary president, I just don't have time for all the reading I would like to do, but I can pick up the Magazine, and in a short time find much satisfaction and inspiration in the poetry, stories and articles. It is a joy to see the Magazine arrive in the mail each month.

Catherine Anne Jensen Fremont, California

I was thrilled to see in the September Magazine the picture of the mosaic at the Church College of Hawaii, which represents the original flag-raising ceremony that President McKay witnessed at an elementary school in Laie in 1921. I am even more thrilled to tell you that I had charge of the original ceremony on that morning. I was teaching the fifth and sixth grades at Laie, my mission assignment.

Mrs. Elizabeth Hyde Geary Ogden, Utah
