[Vol54 | March 1967 | Page 214 | Fiction | Laura's Perfect Day | Quin Cole]
Laura's Perfect Day a While gentle snowflakes fell at random from a crisp, January sky, Laura Carson worked meticulously with last-minute household tasks. Her Swedish kitchen gleamed with polished copper and loving care. Time seemed to stand still as she prepared for her very special New Year's Day guests, but the ticking of the oldfashioned chime clock reminded her, 'It's almost time, it's almost time, Mary Carole is coming home!" Her heartbeat quickened at the sound of each passing vehicle. How wonderful it would be to see her only daughter, her sonin-law, and their new baby boy. The Air Force was transferring them from a base in Oklahoma to Idaho, after two long years, and they were to arrive by noon. Laura checked the golden brown turkey in the oven and felt anxious to share it with her 214 Quin Cole little family. Hurrying back to the living room to have a better view of the street, she kept busy by re-doing some of her work. While she shined the family photograph of Mary Carole, her deceased husband, and _ herself, Laura felt very close to her dear ones. Their Swedish ancestry and blond hair brought out a close resemblance among the three. "Oh, Howard, if only you could be here and feel this joy," she whispered, "but I'm sure that your joy is even greater on the other side." After this reassuring thought, she felt comforted. With deep anxiety, Laura peeked through the frilly, white window curtains one more time before relaxing in the soft easy chair. She reached for a special letter which was kept in the top desk drawer. I must read Mary Carole's last letter again—per- haps I have time, she thought excitedly. Her small, white hands carefully unfolded the cherished pages, then she began to read: "Precious Mother, I feel that I should bare my heart to you this Christmas Day to thank you for teaching and exemplifying the gospel to me. Many times in the past, I'm quite sure that you felt I was quite unconcerned about the more serious things in life. In my girlhood, you were forever patient with me and never forced issues. "Last week, when Don brought me home from the hospital with Baby Donald, my heart had wings and reached far beyond the realms of life. I realized more than ever that God's greatest gift in this life is love. "Tf. Remember the day we arrived in Oklahoma... The Saturday before Easter, two years ago. We felt so alone and almost afraid. Neither of us had been any further from home than the University. I was so accustomed to feeling secure in your home, so this new venture brought out a trait that I hardly knew I possessed. We rented a small, brick house and started unpacking the car and trailer. After about six hours of steady work, we had our new home in fairly good order. "Don said something like, 'Tomorrow is Easter Sunday, honey, we should find out where the nearest Latter-day Saint chapel is located.' Our telephone wasn't yet connected, so we drove to a nearby booth. 'Huh,' Don exclaimed, 'only two chapels are listed in this great big city!' He copied the address of the nearest one, and we returned home for dinner. Laura's Perfect Day "A beautiful, golden sunrise greeted us the next morning. The flat plains could not conceal the eastern horizon as our Rocky Mountains do. How glorious the sun! We had never seen it look so near, and the beauty of that Easter morn was enhanced by the unbrella-shaped mimosa trees bursting forth with red and white plumes. As we drove to church, we enjoyed the many colorful shrubs and flowers and soon forgot our homesickness. "Our destination proved to be a school building, and we thought that we had gone to the wrong place. We saw some children in front of the building and asked them where the church was located. They informed us that the school was the regular meeting place. Well, Mother, Don and I didn't find a lovely, well-decorated chapel like the one in Kingston, but we did find that same sweet spirit among the small group of saints. An Air Force officer provided music on a compact, portable organ, and unpadded folding chairs provided seating. "Branch President Barker, a Cherokee, was so very friendly and made us feel right at home. Total membership was _ only thirty in number, but President Barker was just as proud and confident of his little flock as our bishop in Kingston. It didn't take long for us to get acquainted with everyone in the branch. Such strong brotherhood and sisterhood the bonds of the gospel had created there! "Within a month, Don and I had been called to fill four positions, each in various auxiliaries and missionary work. Mother, 

215 March 1967

 you know better than anyone how I shirked responsibility in the Kingston Ward... Sometimes letting the other person carry the heavy burdens. With these new callings, I was scared stiff, at first. Imagine me doing the Lord's work with practically no experience! I found myself trying to remember all of the practical and spiritual things you had attempted to teach me in my girlhood. Don was in full sympathy with my lack of experience, because he suffered some of the same symptoms. We decided together that we would fulfill our obligations to the best of our ability, not only because we felt needed, but at the same time, it was a golden opportunity to develop our potentials. Mother, you probably can't imagine the experiences we've had here in the mission field, so I'll tell you more of the details when we see you New Year's Day. "Don has a week's leave before we report for duty at Tracy Field in Idaho, and we are looking forward to seeing you and showing off the new boy. These have been the busiest, happiest years of our lives. We are so thankful that Don was sent here to receive his pilot's training, so that we could help this branch of the Church grow to over two hundred members. Construction of a fine new chapel has just begun, so the Lord's work is progressing here among the Lamanites. Your loving Daughter, Mary Carole." Laura arose and hurried to the front window again. By now, the ground was nearly white with new-fallen snow, and she wondered about the safety of her children. When Don's car turned into the driveway, she could hardly contain her joy. Beaming with motherly pride, she watched them walk toward the front door. How manly and confident her dark-haired flier looked as he helped his young family along the sidewalk! His tanned face and bright blue eyes held a deep expression of determination. Mary Carole, still slim and lovely, no longer walked with a careless, aimless manner. She carried her tiny baby close to her and looked up as Laura rushed out the front door calling to them. "Hi, Mom," were the most beautiful words she had heard in a long time. As she embraced the three of them, Laura knew that this would be her perfect day. - SPECIAL APRIL SHORT STORY ISSUE The April 1967 Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story issue, with the following outstanding short stories being featured: @ ''And It Shall Be Given You,'' by Sylvia Probst Young @ 'The Outsider,"' by Iris W. Schow @ ''Be Happy, But Remember,"' by Alice P. Willardson @ 'The Forgotten Necessity,'"' by Luana Shumway Watch for these stories in April and enjoy a journey into four very different fields of fiction.