[Vol54 | March 1967 | Page 218 | Fiction |  | Hazel M. Thomson]
218 The Golden Chain Py h Hazel M. Thomson HE ff 4A) GEES oF I he mies Me, "With Mr. And Mrs. Shepherd,'"' Nora answered, giving the name of the couple with whom the teaching agency had made living arrangements for her. "Oh, the bishop." "Bishop?" repeated Nora. "Yes. Bishop in the Mormon Church." He opened the door. "Goodnight, Miss," he said. "You'll be comfortable here until someone comes for you." Nora heard the train as it moved away into the distance. She lay down on the bench before the fire and after a time she slept, to be awakened by a boy of perhaps thirteen or fourteen years, his cheeks red from the morning air, stamping the snow from his boots. "Good morning, Ma'am," he said. "I always come for the mail and for anything else that's here." In spite of herself, Nora smiled. "Well," she said, "I guess I'm the 'anything else' this morn- ° " ° ing The boy picked up the mail sack and took it outside. Nora buttoned her coat and picked up her bags as he returned. "Here," he said, "just leave them, and soon as I bank the fire, Tl carry them out for you." Nora watched him place more wood on the coals, then cover them carefully with small shovelfuls of cool ashes from the outer edges of the fireplace. "There," he said, as he hung the shovel back in place. "Never know when someone else will come along. Always good to have the fire banked this time of year. Say, wasn't that some snowstorm? If it keeps-up, there ought to be three feet by Christmas."' Outside, Nora blinked against the brightness of the sun. Its rays touched the snow, turning it into sparkling diamonds. The willows along the roadside were bent low under their heavy burden, but they, too, glistened in the sun. And the prairie was white, white as far as she could see. Nora caught her breath with the beauty of the morning. She stood for a moment, enjoying the loveliness of the scene. The air was clear now, and frosty, and so cold it stung her nostrils as she breathed. "Isn't it lovely?" she said. "I've never seen anything so lovely." In the process of lifting the suitcase over the side of the sleigh, the boy stopped with it in mid air and looked at her. "Lovely? Snow? You gotta have it for sleighing, and it makes irrigation water for next summer, but lovely? Well, I dunno. I just never thought of it that way, Ma'am."' Nora looked at the snow beThe Golden Chain tween her and the sleigh. It was well over a foot deep. She lifted her skirt slightly, but still hesitated. "Don't know how to get you over here unless you' walk, Ma'am," said the boy. Still Nora hesitated. Then, lifting her skirt just a bit more, and stepping carefully in the larger tracks the boy had made, she made her way carefully to the side of the sleigh. The boy went back and closed the station door, fastening it on the outside. Then he returned to the sled, touched one of the horses lightly with one hand, as he stepped on the wagon tongue and up over the front of the sleigh. From the seat he looked down at her. "I can't do that!" said Nora. "What if the horse should kick me?" The boy laughed. "That horse won't kick. Anyway, all she'd hit is the singletree, if she tried. Sure you can. Come on." Acrre a moment more of hesitation, Nora did as she had seen the boy do. As she placed her hand on the horse, she felt the horse's skin move. Quickly she jerked her hand away, almost falling as she did so. The boy grabbed for her, catching the folds of her coat, half lifting, half dragging her over the end of the sleigh box. He picked up the lines and spoke to his team. ''Giddap!" The team, one brown and the other a gray, moved forward. Nora had never ridden in a horsedrawn sleigh before. It moved with an unbelievable smoothness 

219 March 1967

 through a country gilded by the sun like fairyland. They rode in silence for a time, as the boy urged the horses into a trot, their feet kicking up the snow and sending up little sprays behind them. The sleigh bells tinkled out on the frosty air. Surely, she must be dreaming, thought Nora. Of course. She had fallen asleep in the little station, and this was some wonderful, unreal country into which her dream had taken her. Then the boy spoke. "I didn't ask you who you are. Going to visit," he said. '"Are you related to someone in the ward?" "Ward?" asked Nora. She didn't understand the word ward. A hospital ward, or perhaps a political ward. Yes, it was more likely something similar. '""What is a ward?" "You don't know what a ward is?" The boy peered at her closely. "Say! I'll bet you're not a Mormon. Everybody is around here. That is, everybody except Old Free. Most folks think he's a bit queer. He never comes out to anything except funerals." Nora looked at the boy somewhat amused. "No," she answered. 'I'm not a Mormon. And I'm not related to anyone in your ward as you call it, and I'm really not visiting. You see, I've come to teach school." Again the boy looked closely at her. "You have?" he asked. "Gee! I wonder if you're big enough. You should see some of the boys. There's Ed Johnson and Joe Pine, both taller than you are. Sometimes I wonder why they come. They never seem much interested in getting their lessons." 220 Again the boy was quiet for a time. Nora waited. "About not being related to anyone in the ward," he said, "don't worry about it. You see, I'm not either, not really. But Jed is just the same as a brother. Say, I don't even know your name." "Blake," she answered. "Nora Blake. And I don't know yours, either." "I'm Ben Wade," answered the boy, "live here in Banner with Jed Oliver. He's kept me ever since my parents died. I was only nine then. Pa and Jed were best friends. Funny. You wouldn't think Jed would want a boy like me around. But he does. Especially he likes me to read...." The boy broke the sentence off suddenly. "That's good," said Nora, "that's the best way there is to improve your own reading, to read to someone." "We've got a good farm," said Ben, and Nora could feel his intention of changing the subject. "Jed says it's not big enough for both of us when we each get a wife. He says we'll have to have more land then. Of course, I'm not old enough for that, but Jed is." Tuey were entering the village now, passing small neat homes placed at what seemed to Nora to be a considerable distance apart. Each home seemed to have its own little group of narrow, pointed poplars, with some shorter, branching shade trees. Occasionally, bits of snow from the heavy burdens the trees were carrying fell softly to the ground below. "You haven't asked me where I'm staying," said Nora. "No need to," replied the boy, pulling his team to a stop in front of one of the larger homes. "This is it. Schoolteachers always board at the bishop's."' A pleasant looking woman, probably in her thirties answered Ben's knock., "Morning, Sister Shepherd," said Ben. "Brought you the new schoolteacher. This is Miss Blake. Vd best be getting along to the post office with the mail. Goodbye, Miss Blake. See you in school." "Goodbye, Ben,' Nora answered, 'and thank you for all your help." The boy nodded and was gone. Nora saw that the table was spread for breakfast in the pleasant farmhouse kitchen, and the appetizing smell of bacon frying met her nose. "My," said Mrs. Shepherd, looking at Nora, "you are a pretty thing. A mite skinny, but my cooking will take care of that. Here, let me take your coat, and Ill get you some water to wash up. Soon as the younger children are ready and Josh and Sam come in from chores, we'll be ready to sit right down to breakfast." "Trudy's gone to help milk, too, Ma," said the tall, dark-eyed girl tending the bacon frying on the big range. "We'll have to wait for her. We always do." "Oh, maybe she'll surprise us and make it back to the house when your father and brother do," said Mrs. Shepherd, smiling. "This is Ellen, Miss Blake," she went on, motioning toward her daughter. "And in the high The Golden Chain chair, this is Robbie. He's the only one of the children you won't be teaching. And this is Mark. He's just six,' said Mrs. Shepherd, as the boy came into the kitchen with his shoes in his hand. "Let's get those shoes on, Mark," said his mother. '"There're Sam and your father back from milking now." Nora found Josh Shepherd to be a giant of a man with dark hair and beard. Sam, at ten, was a small replica of the father, without the beard, of course. ""We've been expecting you, Miss Blake," he said, offering his hand. Nora's own hand seemed to disappear in his grip. ""We hope you'll like living with our family." "T expect she's starved," said Mrs. Shepherd. "'Where is Trudy, Josh? Why does she keep us waiting on her?" "When Sam and I left the barn she was still petting one of the new calves," answered her husband. "As to why, I can't say, except that if it eats and breathes, Trudy loves it, be it calf, pig, or chicken." He smiled as he stepped to the door to call the girl. Mrs. Shepherd indicated a chair for Nora between Ellen and Mr. Shepherd. "I think you'll be safe there, Miss Blake," she said. 'Mark doesn't always succeed in getting through the meal without tipping something over. And _ Robbie, even in his high chair, can be a little dangerous." Nora moved to the place Ellen had set for her, as Mr. Shepherd returned with Trudy. Nora felt herself being given the frankest 

221 March 1967

 appraisal she had perhaps ever had, by the child's eyes. Trudy, too, was dark like her father and Ellen. She had two long braids that reached far down her back. "You don't look like Miss Amy," she said, going to the washstand. "No," said Nora. "I'm not Miss Amy. I'm Miss Blake." "Trudy was Miss Amy's pet," said Sam, "and she says she'll never like another teacher." "Sam!" said his mother. "Well, that's what she said. She's said it over and over." There was a bit of awkward silence, as Trudy finished washing and took her place at the table. Nora stood by her chair, noting that everyone else, except Robbie, was standing also. "We hope you'll join us in prayers, Miss Blake," said the bishop. "We always have family prayer before breakfast." Nora stood uncertainly as the family members knelt by their chairs. After the slightest hesitation she joined them. The prayer was lengthy, but Nora listened intently. Finally, 222 the bishop was asking a blessing for her. "Bless this new member of our household, Lord, who has come into our midst, that her stay may be a pleasant one. Bless her in her efforts as a teacher, with wisdom and understanding. We are grateful for her presence here, and we thank thee that she has come to us to impart knowledge unto our children." Nora was amazed at the words, and felt a deepening sense of responsibility in the work which she was about to begin. The meal seemed a big one. Large steaming bowls of oatmeal, strips of bacon, golden crisp, eggs, strawberry jam, and hot muffins. To drink, there were tall glasses of cold milk. This was indeed different, but she did justice to the food, finding her appetite unusually hearty. "IT can see what you mean about your cooking taking care of my weight," said Nora, smiling at Mrs. Shepherd. "If I eat like this every morning, I'm afraid it will take care of it only too well." "Now don't start worrying about that yet," said Mrs. Shepherd. "Wait until I've had a chance to put a few pounds on you first. You could stand a bit more weight, don't you think so, Josh?" Her husband finished feeding Robbie the last of his mush. "Now, Bertha," he said, 'we must give Miss Blake a chance to know us, and we hope, like us as we are, and we must do the same with her, without trying to change things she is used to." He turned to Nora. "Bertha is never quite as happy as when she is cooking for someone who en- joys her food. You must feel free to eat as you have been used to doing." "T usually have just coffee and a slice of toast,"' said Nora. HERE was a long silence. Nora noticed the family members glancing at each other. Then Joshua Shepherd cleared his throat. "You haven't heard much about Mormons, Miss Blake?' "No," said Nora, remembering Mrs. Rennold. "I... That is.... Well, only a little." Mrs. Rennold had really been liberal with information. The bishop laughed. "I know," he nodded. ''You've heard some strange stories, no doubt." "We don't drink coffee," announced Trudy. "Mark, maybe could drink it. He's only six. And Robbie. But not me. I'm eight, and I'm baptized and I'm accountable for my sins. So I can't drink it, nor any of the rest of us. Nor you either, Miss Blake. Heavenly Father doesn't want you to drink coffee." "Trudy!" Bertha Shepherd, failing in her efforts to stop the child, spoke sharply. But Trudy hadn't quite finished. "It's true," she said. "'Pa told me when he baptized me that I was to keep the Word of Wisdom, and that was way last summer, and I haven't had any coffee or smoked tobacco yet!" Bertha Shepherd looked helplessly at her husband. He patted Trudy's shoulder. "Trudy's done a. Pretty good job of explaining our belief on the subject, Miss Blake. You might find it a bit hard at first, but, if you're willing, I promise you it The Golden Chain won't be long before you find that you prefer milk for breakfast."; Nora found herself somewhat bewildered, but there was that in Mr. Shepherd's eyes, in his voice, that gave ample evidence of his sincerity. The bishop pushed his chair back from the table. "Now, Miss Blake, I suppose you'll want to see the school before Monday morning. Whenever you're ready, I can hitch up the horses and drive you over. It's a good mile, and this snow is pretty deep for walking." "Oh, thank you," Nora said. "I do need to go to see what books and supplies there are, and get my plans in order." "Perhaps Trudy could go along and be of some help to you," said her mother. "Why that would be fine," said Nora. "I'd like very much to have her go." "Can't" said Trudy, "I have to go catch old Fly and take the cows to the upper field." "But Sam can..." began her mother. Then she looked at Trudy's face and stopped, turning to her older daughter. ''Ellen, get your things on. Perhaps you can be of more help than Trudy, after all." "Oh, I can,' said Ellen. "I know right where to find the roll book. Sometimes Miss Amy let me mark it." "You see, Miss Blake," said Joshua Shepherd, "a few of our families moved up into the Big Horn country to homestead. Jim Jensen stayed behind after his folks went, to sell their place. It wasn't long before he had a good offer on it, so he and Miss Amy 

223 March 1967

 decided to get married right away instead of waiting until spring, as they had planned. Then they left for Wyoming, too. Of course," he added, "'we would have had to let her go, even if they had stayed here. The school board would never permit a married woman to teach school." "Miss Amy liked Jed Oliver the best," said Trudy. "Trudy!" exclaimed her mother, in shocked surprise. "It's true," said the child, pulling on her coat. "Everybody at school said it was true. I did so want to help Miss Amy, so once I asked Jed if he liked her." "Trudy! You didn't!" There was both dismay and disbelief in her mother's voice. "Yes, I did,' answered the child calmly. "Whatever did he say?' her mother asked. '"'He said he liked her as well as he liked any schoolteacher, but that he didn't like any teacher very much." "Trudy," said her mother, "take off that coat and _ start stacking the dishes. If Ellen goes with Miss Blake, you'll have to help with the dishes." "But, Ma." The little face was a mask of golden freckles and distaste at this new idea. She began, reluctantly, to take her coat back off again. "I've already milked two cows and fed the chickens and the calf. I don't see why I have to do the dishes." "Trudy," said her mother firmly, "you simply can't choose to do the outside chores so you'll never have to help in the house. One thing a girl must learn, Trudy, is how to do dishes, and the sooner 224 you get at them, the easier they will be to do." Nora smiled inwardly at the grief-stricken expression on the girl's face, as she began slowly gathering the plates. "TI wish I was a boy!" she said, stacking the plates with such vigor that Nora expected momentarily to see them flying into pieces. "I just wish I was a boy! Sam only milked two cows, same as me, and he didn't even feed any calves or chickens, and he doesn't have to wash dishes!" Mrs. Shepherd opened her mouth as if to answer, then, apparently, thought better of it. Instead, she picked up one of Nora's bags and started up the stairs. Nora picked up the other one and followed. The room was rather small, but the bed was large and comfortable looking. A small rocker, padded with crazy-patch cushions, a table near the window, which would serve very well as a desk, and another straight-backed chair completed the furnishings. At the window were crisp white curtains, tied back to give a lovely view of the valley and its mantle of snow. Everything was wonderfully clean. "Now," said Mrs. Shepherd, opening the door to a_ small closet, 'I hope you'll find room enough in here to take care of your clothes." "Oh, I'm. Sure.. L.. Will,". Said Nora. "Well, you just go ahead and unpack. I'll tell Josh that you'll be ready soon. I'd better get back to the kitchen and see how Trudy is coming with the dishes." Nora was relieved to get out of: the suit she had worn for travel- ing. She chose a simple woolen dress to wear to the school, one that was warm and comfortable. In the sleigh, the bishop put his hand in his pocket and handed Nora a large key. "As president of the school board," he said, "I always get the key back when the _ teacher leaves. Seems as though I've had it-more than the teacher the past year or two. Hope you can stay on with us, Miss Blake. The children need a teacher that can stay with them for awhile." Tr sun had warmed the air and the snow dropped in great blobs from the fences and willows by the roadside. With the sleigh bells jingling in her ears, it seemed but a short ride to Nora until the horses slowed to a walk as they climbed a small hill, and the school building came in sight. It was small and square, with white clapboards on the sides and a bell tower on the top. At the hitching post, Mr. Shepherd jumped down and tied his team, before turning to help Nora. "I'll go ahead," he said, "and break trail.' She tried to lengthen her steps to match his, but found it quite impossible. He stamped the snow from his boots on the porch and turned aside, giving Nora a chance to try the key. Nora inserted it in the lock and tried it each way, slowly, persistently. The key turned under her hand and the lock opened. "Good for you, Miss Blake," cried Ellen. "I think you're the first teacher who unlocked the door alone the first time since Daddy has had the key. They The Golden Chain always try and then come and get him to open the door." The door opened into a long hall, lined with hooks. The bishop opened the second door leading from the hallway into the classroom, which was larger than Nora had thought it would be from the outside appearance of the building. It had a high ceiling and long narrow windows in the east and south wall. In the north- I east corner stood a great round black stove with the longest stovepipe Nora had ever seen, reaching almost to the ceiling before it turned and went into the north wall. A large green chalkboard covered a good part of the area on the north and west walls of the room. The desks varied in size, the smaller ones near the door, and the larger ones toward the east side of the room, all facing north. Her own desk was in front, nearer to the stove than she would want it, Nora decided. By the door stood a small table with a bucket on it. A dipper hung on a nail nearby. "I'll leave you with Ellen, now," said the bishop. "She knows more about the boys and girls than I do. Maybe she can tell you some things about your students that will help. When will you be ready to go back?" "I really can't tell how long it will take me,' Nora answered. "And, anyway, I'd like to walk. I want to see how much farther it is when I walk than when I ride." After he had gone, Nora sat down at the desk and looked at the rows of empty seats. On Monday morning there would be a separate challenge facing her from each one of them.