Officers' Meetings (Afternoon Session) THEOLOGICAL DEPARTMENT Mrs. Jennie B. Knight presided, assisted by Mrs. Cora L. Bennion and Mrs. Ethel R. Smith Mrs. Cora L. Bennion, chairman of the committee on theological lessons, in presenting the course for the ensuing year, stated that next year, 1930, marks the centenary of the organization of the Church. The committee therefore felt that a fitting course would be one devoted to a study of the Book of Mormon. In listening to reports from the mission fields we learn that the missionaries are distrbuting many copies of the Book of Mormon, giving much time and labor to bringing this valuable book to the attention of people in the world. Many testimonies from members of the Church emphasize the importance of the Book of Mormon and its teachings. We feel that our members will enjoy a study of the gospel doctrines that are found within this book, as it explains the gospel i in great simplicity. Dr. George H. Brimhall, who has written the theological lessons for the past ten years, was introduced by Mrs. Jennie B. Knight, who said that he had been her teacher for over fifty years, and that so far as she was concerned, he was the greatest teacher she had ever known. LOYALTY Dr. George H. Brimhall First?Be loyal to the great ubjective of all teaching, leading others to learn. Not what the teachers do, but what the class is led to do is the measure of success.; Second?Be loyal to the lesson outline. Supplement it, condense it, and expand it, but don't discard it; for in so doing you foster depreciation, which is always depressing to the student, if not discouraging. Loyalty to outline is loyalty to the organization that furnishes it. Study the outline with a view of making it sparkle. Thrd?Be loyal to the rights of class appointees. When a member of the class has been assigned a part for special preparation the teacher will see to it that the member has recognition in the lesson presentation. There is program ethics just as there is road ethics or banquet ethics or business ethics. Fourth?Be loyal to the spirit of inquiry. The spirit made of Joseph Smith a student on his way to become a seer. Encourage inquiry, not speculative inquiry but truth- -seeking inquiry. Adam was not afraid to ask, Why men must be baptized?  LITERARY DEPARTMENT Miss Alice L. Reynolds presided, assisted by Mrs, Rosannah C. Irvine and Mrs. Kate M. Barker Miss Alice L. REYNOLDS Member of the General Board  The thought behind the literature lessons of the past six months has been that of emphasizing social problems that are, or may be at any time, part of the consideration of a social worker. We heard of one ward that asked a specialist in literature about The Devil's Disciple. This specialist promptly asked, "Why read The Devil's Disciple if you are going to consider Shaw?" This, of course, was a natural reaction born of a purely literary point of view, but it. Implies a course which would upset the whole purpose of the drama lessons. The Devil's Disciple was selected primarily for two reasons: first, it furnishes a situation where we have a self-righteous daughter of New England Puritanism entrusted with the care of a child born out of wedlock. Many of us have the Puritan background and might be tempted to treat a child just as Dick Dudgeon's mother treated Essie. Dick Dudgeon, who is called "the devil's disciple" is the only person who really has any consideration for the child. The second point to be emphasized is brought out in a speech of Dick's when he says to the minister's wife: Your husband is a good man, but I fancy he is good because you have helped him and treated him kindly; and it may be that I am a bad man because I have been treated unkindly. That is a lesson in environment. Again, turning to Galsworthy's play, Justice, we have a number of social problems presented. There is the motive for the crime, the matter of the prison, and what is to be done with a man who has served a prison term and is back in society. It presents also the situation growing out of Ruth's attempt to care for her children and the discovery that it is impossible to do so on the ten shillings a week which she receives for sewing. All these problems were of concern to Mr. Galsworthy, who was trained for the practice of law, but who has preferred to present the injustice that frequently grows out of following the law. The Yale Review of October, 1921, has this to say of John Galsworthy: "His work is notable for its economy of words, its breadth of social sympathy and deep pity, its sharp perception and extreme sensitiveness." Perhaps we have no other modern playwright who has given so much intelligent attention to social problems as has John Galsworthy, For this reason we selected one of his plays.  Joseph and His Brethren is a pageant play, replete with beautiful pictures taken from the Biblical story of Joseph, who was sold into Egypt. It is not intended to present a social problem, but merely to bring before the organization a wholesome play which draws its material from the Bible?a play richly laden with beautiful passages and scriptural teachings. PROFESSOR HARRISON R. MERRILL. For the coming year in the department of literature, it has been decided that a study of literary biography will be both profitable and entertaining to our readers. At least nine biographies will be selected and prepared for study. Since they are to serve as literary studies as well as accounts of worth-while lives, these biographies will be selected with great care. This decision has been reached in a rather logical manner. In our own day men and women who really are splendid writers are giving much attention to the writing of biographies and autobiographies. It was thought, therefore, that it would be more profitable to read a well written, fearless, yet sympathetic biography of a real person than it would be to read the biography of a fictitious character such as is found in the best novels. That is, the committee feels that it would be fully as enlightening to read the life struggles of an Abraham Lincoln as it would be to read about the supposed struggles of a Henry Esmond or a Silas Lapham. This very decision, however, suggests the method to be used in the study. In the first place, the literary form of the biography itself should receive attention; and in the second place, the character of the person about whom the biography was written should be considered. Each month in the Relief Society Magazine will appear a review of one of these books written up in lesson form as a guide not only to the teacher and to the person who gives the lesson, but to all who desire to read the biographies selected. An attempt will be made to have these lessons complete in themselves. Many readers, however, may prefer to read the entire, original biography. In an early Magazine will appear the names of all the biographies that are to be studied. It is suggested that the class leader study her class membership carefully and make her assignments early, in order that the person who presents the lesson may have time to read and actually study the biography she treats. In this way the lecture may take the form of a first class book review, and deal with the literary charm of the biography as well as with the character it portrays. Biographies are usually a little more expensive than ordinary books, because their distribution is rather limited. Wherever it is practical, therefore, the local town library should be induced to  secure the books in advance. Librarians usually welcome suggestions for the purchase of books, since the library is maintained for the use and pleasure of the people who support it. In towns where there are no libraries, some of the sisters may perhaps be willing to buy one or more of the books; or, possibly, a library fund may be secured by individual contributions to it or hy public entertainments, for its benefit. The Deseret Book Store in Salt Lake City maintains a traveling library service from which books may be had at a nominal cost. In some cases, it may be possible to induce the company to place these books in a town library for the use of members of the Relief Society. If the books cannot be secured at all, our readers will have to rely wholly upon the lessons written for the Magazine. The best lesson work cannot usually be realized in this way, for it is through contact with the authors of the biographies that adequate estimates of the characters are to be had. A definite attempt will be made to keep the lessons on a plane which will give them an appeal for all classes of women. The reading of such preparatory books as "What Can Literature Do for Me?" by C. Alphonso Smith; "The Interpretation of the Printed Page," by Clark; and "The Study of Prose Fiction," by Bliss Perry, will be helpful to those who direct the class work and to those who review any of these books. Editor's Note: The use of these books may be had at many public libraries. The Deseret Book Company will carry the biographies, but we wish it understood now, as formerly, that the purchase of these books is optional with the organizations. VISITING TEACHERS' CLASS LEADERS DEPARTMENT Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter presided, assisted by Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Baxter explained briefly the purpose of the teachers' demonstration in the different homes, and Mrs. Bradford gave the place of the woman as hostess in the home. The value of the teachers' message was discussed at some length. Mrs. Emmaretta G. Brown, President of Granite Stake Relief Society, presented able arguments in favor of the printed message, while Mrs. Mary E. B. Fitzgerald first counselor in East Jordan Stake Relief Society, gave an excellent defense of the oral message carried by the teachers on their visits. Both were fine examples of the logical and consistent thinking through of a problem.  SOCIAL SERVICE CLASS LEADERS DEPARTMENT Mrs. Inez K. Allen presided, assisted by Miss Sarah M. McLelland and Mrs. Marcia K. Howells MENTALLY SUPERIOR CHILDREN Dr. Dorothy B, Nyswander Today I am to talk upon a subject which has been of primary interest to people in general, to educators and to psychologists, for some hundreds of years. Plato was one of the first persons that we know of to become interested in this problem of the child. He set up some very simple tests to pick out the superior child from the rest of the children of Greece. That was the beginning of mental testing; and though an experimental attitude toward children entirely disappeared during the middle ages, we still feel the effects of Plato's discriminations in our attitude towards superior children today. Brilliant Children Become Leaders of Men One of the most prevalent beliefs that I have encountered is that most of our brilliant men today are mediocre as children and did not do very good work in school. If we should make an investigation of the American and British men of science, German men of science, and men of letters in these three countries, we should find that they have been exceptionally bright from earliest childhood, and that the majority of them did excellent work in high school and in college. The one who does not do exceptional work in school, and who does not show signs of brilliance in childhood, is the exception. We should realize that brilliancy is something characteristic in the young child and in youth, not something sporadic, but something consistent. However, many children who do not show these signs of brilliancy may fail to do so because of lack of opportunity, because they have been brought up in a rural community which did not offer advantages for bringing forth the superior mental equipment which they possessed. When the boy who has been brought up in a rural community goes to college, he becomes interested in his work, and shows signs of brilliancy which were dormant in his home town. That does not mean that this boy was stupid as a young boy, but only that he failed to get interested in the work the rural schools gave him. Bright Children Do Things Their Own Way Another common error is that genius and insanity are linked together. I have known parents of a brilliant child to be concerned about his sanity. There are just as many people who become insane from a 'mediocre background; that is, there are no  more people of genius who become insane than come from other ranges of mentality. But the brilliant child refuses to be circumscribed by convention, refuses to see the importance of all behaving according to a given social pattern; whereas the child who is less brilliant does not observe that most of us behave after a commercial pattern. Most of us do not resent the fact that there are certain laws which we must all obey for the good of society. Many parents have a child who is much more clever than they are; and this child, being so clever, wants to be an individual who does not wish to conform to the rules of society. We see that time and time again, but on the other hand we see the same patterns of behavior demonstrated by children who are feeble-minded, and by children who lack intelligence to appreciate the rule. The point I want to make is this, that the superior child alone is not the only type of child who refuses to abide by the laws of convention, and by our social laws. Hence the importance of his training in the home and school where he is taught to appreciate and to understand the laws of society, and where he is shown that the best good for himself and the best good for society can come from his observance of these laws. Where you fail to teach this to the brilliant child, he builds up habits of his own and becomes a social rebel. Intelligence Differs in Quantity Sometimes we think of the brilliant child as absolutely different from other children; but when you study intelligence in children, you find that the thing children differ in is not in the quality of their intelligence, but in the quantity. They are not different. Any one child is not different from another in mind, but simply in his large degree of intelligence; and so, we discover in training the superior child, we should use the same type of training in the home for actual habit formation that we use for all the rest of the children. The superior child is not a different person; his mind works in the same way, but a little faster. He learns more quickly, gets insights into situations more readily than other children do; but the same attitude should be taken toward him as toward the other children. Some people have supposed that children who were bright when they were little, turn toward mediocrity when they get older. What is the trouble with a judgment of that kind? In the first place the child may only have appeared to be bright when he was little. Unless you have a scientific analysis that the child is bright. You must be very careful in your judgment. Many a school teacher has been deceived by the looks of a little child sitting down in the front row. The little child looks so bright. And especially the little girls,  who learn to smile at the teacher. That is what many children learn, and teachers are deceived by appearances. School Studies May Be at Fault The other thing that may happen is this, that a bright child is not interested in any of the school work. That happens time and time again with children who are very superior in their intelligence, yet who do mediocre work in school. The failure is that of the school to call forth their intelligence. Another thing that makes adolescent children appear dull or stupid is the fact that they are having emotional streaks and social streaks, which keep their minds from doing their school work. That is something which all parents should recognize. During adolescence we may get a sporadic type of work from children which is not consistent. That type of problem we meet most often in high school work. Another thing that enters into this problem of the superior child is our frequent failure to distinguish between the ability of the child to do mechanical work and creative work. Often a child with mediocre intelligence is able to do excellent work in arithmetic, in spelling, in memorizing music; such a child may also do beautiful copy work, and may excel in doing all these things; yet he may not be of superior intelligence, nor a child of genius, These things which I have mentioned are mechanical. The Mark of Genius The thing that distinguishes is creative ability. The child, of genius, of superior mentality, is able to create something of his own, to do something else than copy what others have done. We can distinguish this quality in very young children. In putting things together in a new way, or attempting to do something in a new fashion. In drawing animals or making up words such as have never been used, the child uses creative power. Not many of us have children who have this ability. About one child out of ten is classified among superior children, and. About one child out of a hundred is classified among the children of genius. There we get the distinction. Many of us have a child who is one out of ten; but it is a very exceptional thing to find a child who is one out of a hundred. Value of Intelligence Tests Dr. Termain at Stanford University is now making a followup study of one thousand children of genius. I have had the privilege of being a student in part of this work. The tests were made on these one thousand children of genius nine years ago, and research facts have been given to Dr. Termain to enable him to follow up just what is going to happen to these children. Twentyfive years from now we shall know much more about what a high  intelligence quotient means than we do now. At present we are not quite sure what a high quotient means. It is correlated with learning power, but what has it to do with social ability? What will these children of genius do as leaders of people, in the business world? These are questions to be answered through the research of Dr. Termain. In studying their physical assets, We find that children of genius are above the average 10 height, in weight, and in all health measurements. We sometimes find frail bright children and healthy bright children, but the average health of bright children is above the average of the normal group. They play just as do the normal children, but their play takes on different characteristics. They are less fond of group play; they are always trying to change the rules of the game; they have creative minds; they ask, "Why should we stick by those old rules?" When the rest of the group refuses to have the rules changed, they find it more snteresting to play by themselves. They have interest in hobbies and books. The superior child reads perhaps ten to fifty times as many books as does the child of inferior intelligence; and they are books that give them instruction?travel pooks, nature books, tales of discovery. They like to read stories about great men, also to read magazines that tell them how to construct things. The Scientsfic Attitude By virtue of this intelligence test, we have a more scientific attitude toward the differences in children. Five years ag0 we. Were not able to distinguish between these children in their ability to learn and in their tendency to achieve greatness: We could not tell; the best thing we could do was to look at them and their school credits. Parents are not able to tell anything about the brilliance of their children, because they do not know enough children to compare them with. I have heard very bright children described by their parents as not very clever; the standards of the family were so high in achievement that they had no way of comparison. The parent is least able to discriminate; the school teacher does it a little better because she has many children to compare. Not a Measure of Emotions But the intelligence tests have many weaknesses. They do not meastire emotions, trustworthiness, honesty, nor any of those fine traits that are necessary in children. Because a child has a very high I. Q., it does not mean that he is going to bea leader of men. If he develops bad study habits, he will be lost to society. Some parents think that because their child is above the average in intelligence, they have nothing to worry about. That is not true. Habits of work, industry, temperament habits of sympathy, of understanding, of leadership, must be learned. This is something  to remember when you hear criticism of the intelligence test. All the intelligence test does is to measure the ability of the child to learn; but it does this rather effectively. I should prefer a child who is of average intelligence, with fine habits of personality and industry, to work with me, to be one of my students, to be my secretary, to be one of my associates, to one of superior intelligence without these traits. These things must balance against each other, and we must understand them when we come to evaluate children. What to Do With Gifted Children Just a word on the matter of the education of gifted children. What shall we do with them? There are various methods for training them. In some schools we put them in groups and we call it the superior group. When we do this, and the children know that it is the superior group, we sometimes get harmful results, not only as respects the development of the other children, but harmful results also to the children who are actually superior. The system is a good one when it is properly worked out. I know, because I have been part of a school system in which we had children classified according to their abilities, none of the children knowing they were in a superior group or an inferior group. In other schools, they give rapid promotion. There is no one general rule that can be set, or used, since each child presents a different problem. Some children, physically and socially mature, may be advanced half a year, and, with a little extra teaching, put in another group; but many bright children are not developed socially and physically to cope with the children of the advanced groups; so that special promotion in many cases does serious harm. Make Special Study of Each Case Each case should be a special case to be handled by itself; in 10 school system should a fixed rule be made. What seems of most benefit at the present time is to give bright children an opportunity for self expression; to give them books, stories, hobbies. The bright child who can do the required work in school, can have a collecting hobby of cards or stamps, or he can build up a system for himself. If a child is not given something to do, he will get into bad social or mental! Habits. This problem of educating the brilliant child is one that cannot be neglected. Our object is to give him an education that will make him a leader, because from the superior children must come our leaders, since creative work is possible only by them. There are such children equipped mentally for real leadership. In some parts of this country we do have to contribute funds for the study of music and art for the brilliant student, but we have not yet made communities interested in furthering the intellectual achievement of a brilliant child in their midst by giving him advanced college or professional work,  SOCIAL SERVICE CASE WORK DEPARTMENT Counselor Amy Brown Lyman presided, assisted by Mrs. Emma A. Empey, Mrs. Annie W. Cannon, Mrs. Amy W. Evans The subject considered in this department was Social Case Work. It was discussed as follows: (a) Definition and Scope, Mrs. Amy W. Evans, member of the General Board; (b) Essentials of a Family Plan, Counselor Amy B. Lyman; (c) Case Presentations, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon and Mrs. Emma A. Empey, members of the General Board, and by Mrs. Lyman. The object of the meeting was to gain a better understanding of family problems and of how to help people out of difficult situations. WHAT IS SOCIAL CASE WORK? Mrs, Amy, W. Evans, Member of the General Board Case work is difficult to define, but all the cases cited this afternoon will lead towards a definition. Social work has several different forms. First, social reform, which aims, through educational work and social legislation, to improve conditions in the mass. Obvious results of social reform are better working conditions, such as the eight hour law, minimum wage, protection of life and health in industry, and child labor laws. Better health conditions come from protection of the water supply, milk supply, from pure food laws, public health movements, tuberculosis campaigns, and better housing. These improvements result from social reform. Programs for the right use of leisure time provide further benefits. One important form of social endeavor is group work, It includes settlement houses, Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, our Bee-Hive girls, and similar movements. Social research is a form of investigation which makes original discoveries in any field of social work and re-interprets facts for use in these various fields. Case work deals with the individual who is striving to effect a better adjustment between himself and the world in which he must live. Case work requires insight into personality, which it aims to develop and change in the right direction; it must have insight also into the resources, dangers, and influences of the social environment of those in need. Case workers must have the closest association with families - in order to help them in times of crisis and strain. There is no phase of family life that the case worker does not consider. Our organization comes into contact with thousands of families and with all types of family situations. Though case work is old, yet the systematizing of its processes is comparatively new. These  processes have been developed out of past experiences of social research through case work. Social reform has grown largely out of case work, as case workers come in first-hand contact with the needs and bring them to the attention of society. Mrs. Evans then cited a case Mustang her points. ESSENTIALS OF A FAMILY PLAN Counselor Amy Brown Lyman Mrs. Lyman stated that the object of social work is to conserve families?to save and preserve them, to raise human life to its highest level; it is not merely to give relief. The giving of relief may or may not be necessary, but if given and wherever given, it should be in connection with a plan to remedy the whole situation and not merely to relieve the condition momentarily. It is often possible to relieve a situation without giving any money relief whatever. Other instances may require temporary relief only: and there are instances where the disability is permanent and where aid must likewise be permanent. A plan is an organized scheme for the care and betterment of a family. Before an efficient plan can be created, careful study must be made. Such a plan involves gathering all available information concerning the health, finances, family relations, school life, and history of the family's past adjustments. Just as a doctor must know family history and habits to help him in diagnosing a medical problem, so must the social worker have information in order to diagnose and solve an economic problem. The doctor can't make a good plan if he doesn't know the details. Neither can the social worker. Mrs. Lyman stressed the importance of giving no relief except emergency relief, unless it is part of a plan. Two examples of treating families were given?one in which there was no plan, and the other in which there was a carefully worked out plan, based upon a knowledge and understanding of actual conditions. Some of the disadvantages of giving relief without a plan were pointed out as follows: danger of either neglect or giving more assistance than is necessary; the family is wrongly judged: the family's standards of living are lowered; nothing is done to remove underlying causes; the ward is unable to estimate accounts. Advantages of giving relief to further a plan were listed as follows: the family is not neglected nor over indulged; the underlying causes of dependency are corrected or removed; there is a closer understanding between ward and family: the standards of the family are bettered, not destroyed; the ward is better able to estimate accounts.  GROUP AND FAMILY COUNCILS Mrs. Anme Wells Cannon, Member of the General Board Having been a Relief Society worker all my life, I know the problems that confront you, and how much in need we are at all times to secure any system that will make the work more satisfactory. I love the Relief Society work and workers, and am interested in you all. The sisters who have addressed you this afternoon have mentioned some things that we have neglected. One is, we have not realized that, as taxpayers, we are entitled to assistance from the state, county, and city in our work; and we have not co-operated enough with them, nor taken advantage of the opportunities in our midst. We have not such places as settlement houses; but there are centers where foreign women and others are instructed in certain things and Americanization work is carried on. Then there is the State Department of Rehabilitation. It is surprising how few take advantage of this splendid work. You have just heard Sister Lyman tell the story of the boy who lost his limbs and artificial ones were obtained for him; then he was referred to the State Department of Rehabilitation, under whose supervision he was trained to be a telegraph operator, and finally received fine remunerative work. This department does a splendid work, but how many of our women have taken advantage of this? It is my privilege to present a case to illustrate one form of our work, that of group work, and to show how through the council a case may be settled without any particular expense. So often we neglect to bring families together sufficiently, where if we did they might solve their own problems. The case I am going to present is the case of a Sicilian family; not local, though it might happen in mining districts. A Sicilian woman, widowed nine years, was found living in damp, dark quarters with a little daughter eleven years old. The mother, who could not speak English, was suffering from rheumatism. The little girl was pretty, and left to her own desires, was found wayward and a truant from school. Here are two problems for the social worker?the gentle care and comfort of the mother and the proper care and discipline of the daughter. This case was under the direction of the social worker for one and one-half years before it was settled. It was finally worked out with visits back and forth between relatives and other children, which made a much happier condition in the family life. But it was mainly through the efforts of the group and the bringing together of the family and co-operating and counseling with them, that so much good was done at such a minimum of expense. Among us we have similar problems and cases. It is not a
 
good plan to separate families. In the case cited it was better to put the girl under the care of a younger woman, than to have her in her own home; but as a general rule it is not a good plan to separate families. In all our Relief Society work I hope that none of us lose the real spirit of our calling. I think, in spite of all the technique that we can bring into our ministry in trying to heal the sick and care for the needy, we should aim to unite the intelligence of the mind with the sympathy of the heart, and keep the spirit of the Lord in our work. The knowledge of good well done is happiness.
CHILD-PLACING
Mrs. Emma A. Empey, Member of the General Board
Mrs. Empey discussed briefly the problem of child-placing and presented a child-placing case. She stated that there are a number of reasons for taking children from their homes, but no home should be broken up because of mere poverty. Immorality, venereal disease, drunkenness, or feeble-mindedness on the part of the mother are sufficient causes for the removal of children from their homes and placing them with agencies qualified to take care of them.
It isn't a hard matter to give a child away, for there are always plenty of people who want children. But great care should be exercised in the selection of a home for dependent children. The social worker should determine the family's reasons for wanting the child, and their plans for its education and future should be taken into consideration. The attitude of the other children, if there are any, toward another child coming into the family, should be known, also the make-up of the household, the health of the members, and their relations to each other, the family finances, their standing in the community and neighborhood, and their church affiliations. Good placement should provide a dependent child with the best possible chance of well-being and development.
There are four kinds of homes for children?the free home where people are willing to take a child and care for it free of charge; the boarding home where people are paid for the child's care; the working home where the child is old enough to earn his board; and the adoption home, where children are adopted. No one, not fully qualified by training and experience, should undertake this important work.
TRANSPORTATION CASE
Mrs. Lyman discussed a transportation case, showing the bad results from shipping a homeless man from one community to another at great expense to the agencies involved, and without bettering the condition of the man or making him satisfied.
 
SUMMARY OF DISCUSSION
Mrs. Evans gave a brief summary of the discussions. She felt that in all the cases cited the good of the individual was the main consideration. Personal assets, the family resources, and the individual resources have all to be discovered and marshalled for the benefit of the one in need. The Savior spent his life among those who were unfortunate, saying that the whole needed no physician. In our efforts to help one another we are helping to strengthen the chain of humanity; but we must remember that the chain is no stronger than its weakest link. In trying to strengthen the weak links in our social chain, we are rendering a great service. We should always keep in mind one of the fundamentals of social case work, which is that we should minister to the strength of the people and not to their weaknesses. We can judge all of our work by that fundamental. If we are helping people to become stronger and to attain a higher plane of living through our efforts, to that extent we are doing a good work.
National Conference of Social Work
Mrs. Lyman, who is President of the Utah State Conference of Social Work, announced the meeting of the National Conference of Social Workers to be held in San Francisco from June 26 to July 3, to which all social workers are invited.
CHORISTERS' AND