So Great the Calling Betty Lou Martin HE old model sedan drove slowly down the gravel road. 'The tires made a crunching sound on the loose gravel. Eleanor Coleman was thoughtful as she maneuvered the car along, and the quiet beauty of the fall day did not even penetrate her thoughts. Why did they have to ask Chris? She thought. 'There are so many things that we need to do now, and besides our children are so young. Why, Jess is only ten, Sherri eight, Barbara five, and the twins two. Eleanor frowned. Chris is too young to be a bishop. He will just have to tell them no. She knew that Chris felt very humble at being asked to fulfill such a vital position in the Church, and that he fully realized the weight that would be put upon his shoulders. Chris had known from the beginning that Eleanor was against it, and that if he accepted the calling that it would be without her consent. ) Once again Eleanor reviewed her thoughts as she drove in front of their white frame house. It was a small house, with a white picket fence in front of it. The yard was neat, but Eleanor just hadn't found the time to plant the flowers that she wanted. The house itself would soon need another coat of paint, and they needed to add another bedroom. Chris was planning to do that himself in the spring. Eleanor sighed. It was difficult enough to get things accomplished without Chris taking on more responsibility. "Mother, Mother!" Barbara ran Page 192 with her arms outstretched toward her mother, "I didn't mean to." Eleanor knelt down beside the child. "Now wait just a minute. What's the matter here?" Eleanor wiped the child's tear-stained face. "Tl tell you what's the matter." Jess marched out of the house. "She picked up your rosebud vase and threw it, and she broke it all to pieces." "T didn't mean _ to, Barbara sobbed. Knowing her mischievous ten-yearold, Eleanor surmised that Jess had done something to provoke the incident. "All right, Jess, I know that Barbara didn't break the vase just for the fun of it. What did you do to her?" After Eleanor had straightened the situation out between the children, she began preparing supper. Chris would be home early, and then he had to return to the store to do some extra work for his employer, Mr. Harrington. Before Chris left the house that night he turned to Eleanor, "Eleanor, I've got to come to a decision about being bishop. You know how I feel about it, dear, but I don't want to do anything that will displease you. After all, P'll need your help and support very much in this calling. ['ll have to rely upon you a great deal." Chris stopped speaking and looked at his pretty, darkhaired wife. "You know very well how I feel about it, Chris. I told you the other night. I think that you are too young. Later on, when we're older, Mother," SO GREAT THE CALLING I'd say fine, but nght now I just can't. There are so many things that we need for the children and the house needs fixing. I just can't see you tying yourself down at this time." Eleanor turned her back on Chris, and she heard him quietly close the front door. Eleanor scraped the supper dishes and put them in the sink, and then leaning upon the cupboard, she bent her head and sobbed. She didn't know why she felt so antagonistic toward Chris' becoming a bishop; she just did. They had worked so hard and tried to save as best they could, but it had been one thing after another. First Jess had to have his appendix removed; then Chris was injured on the job; Shertie had to have her tonsils out; and now this. Suddenly the whole ordeal seemed to close in upon her, and for the first time since she could remember, exhausted, she left the supper dishes in the sink, put the children to bed, and then retired herself. She knew that Chris would be disappointed that she hadn't waited up for him. HE next thing that Eleanor remembered, she heard Jess and Sherrie tip-toeing about the kitchen. "My goodness, what time is it?" she called as she hurriedly jumped out of bed. C "It's almost time to leave for school," Sherrie replied, unconcerned. "Daddy told us to be very quiet and not to wake you up." "Tm sorry, Mom," Jess added. "I didn't think that we were being too noisy. The twins are still asleep, and Barbara has had her breakfast. Daddy fixed our breakfast for us just before he left for work." Eleanor looked about her. The dishes that she had left in the sink the night before had been done and carefully put away. She felt a tinge of guilt surge through her. She knew that Chris worked extra hard, too, and that at a time like this, she should not burden him with extra problems. It was very difficult to concentrate on her work that day. Barbara and the twins seemed to get on Eleanor's nerves; usually they didn't bother her at all even at their noisiest. Finally, in desperation, she reached for the telephone. "Hello, Mother, would you mind taking the children for a couple of hours? I have some things that I want to do, and I just can't see taking them with me." "Of course, dear," was the warm reply. "I'm going to bake some cookies this afternoon, and the children can help me." "Oh, you don't know what you're in for, Mother," Eleanor commented, shaking her head. "Yes, I do, dear, and I think that I'm going to enjoy it.' Eleanor's mother added, "Is something wrong, Eleanor? You don't seem to be yourself." "Nothing's wrong, Mother. It's just that I'm a little tired. We have been so busy lately." "Well, it will do you good to leave the children with me for a couple of hours. Twin boys are enough to make anyone tired." Eleanor spent the first hour looking at material for a new dress for each of the girls, and then she browsed around the dress shops looking at the new styles, knowing very well that she could not afford a new dress. Slowly the tension of 194 the past few days seemed to leave, and she began to feel more relaxed once again. She even enjoyed the brisk, fresh air of the golden fall day. N the way back to her mother's house, Eleanor decided to stop at the supermarket along the way. As she was wheeling her cart down the aisle, she saw Sister Carter walking toward her. "My, aren't these stores lovely, Eleanor? My goodness, we certainly have a variety of things to pick from nowadays." Sister Carter smiled. "I don't see you doing your shopping here very often." "No, I just don't have the time to drive clear over here too often, with the children and all that I have to do, Sister Carter." Eleanor paused. "How is everything with you and Brother Carter?" "Oh, just fine, dear. We both keep very busy, but happily so. Brother Carter does so enjoy his new position in the high council of the stake." Sister Carter went on talking. "I suppose now that Bishop Sloane is moving they will be reorganizing the ward." Eleanor panicked momentarily, and then gained her composure. "Yes, I guess that they will. I don't envy the bishop that they choose, however." "Why, my dear?" Sister Carter seemed surprised. "It's the most satisfying experience any person can ever ask for. My husband was bishop years ago when we were just rearing our family. I know that the Lord blessed us and helped us. I believe that we were more happy and contented at that period of our lives than we ever have been since. Even though our children were young, we all worked together and helped one another. We made a game of thinking of ways we could help Brother Carter out to make his position just a little lighter. The children did things in the home that ordinarily would have been left for their daddy to do, and together we all progressed and were rewarded greatly. I sometimes wish that we could go back to that time in our lives, but then there isn't any good in wishing for that. Time moves along too swiftly." Sister Carter seemed to be deep in her own thoughts. "T guess that you do get out of it just what you put into it," Eleanor said more for her own benefit than for Sister Carter's. "That's very true, Eleanor. When a bishop has good counselors and the members of a ward really get behind them and support them, there just isn't any limit to what they can do." Sister Carter glanced at her watch. "Oh, my goodness, I didn't realize what time it is. Brother Carter is sitting out in the car waiting for me. He will think that I got lost." Sister Carter called back to Eleanor, "It's been nice talking to you." "T've enjoyed talking to you, too, Sister Carter," Eleanor called to the lovely, soft-voiced lady. "Just how much you'll never truly realize," Eleanor added to herself. HE anguish of the past few days was forgotten, as Eleanor drove toward her mother's home to get her children. Now she felt that she could plan for their future. She knew how very much Chris would SO GREAT THE CALLING need her help to sustain him, and she promised herself then that she would do all that she could to be an asset to him. The children's constant chattering did not bother her at all that night as she prepared Chris' favorite dishes. She even found herself humming as she went about her tasks in the kitchen. "Mother," Barbara inquired, "how come we are going to eat in the dining room tonight?" Jess interrupted, "Yes, and how come we are going to use your best silverware and dishes?" "Yes, and we never use your best tablecloth except at Christmastime," Barbara added. "Something funny is going on around here." Eleanor couldn't help smiling. What an inquisitive lot of children she had. "It is a surprise for Daddy." "T don't care what the surprise is." Jess eyed the big chocolate cake on the table. "I just want a great big piece of this cake, after I have some fried chicken, that is." "That you shall have, my young man, if you will help Mother get the children ready for supper."' Eleanor playfully ruffled Jess' hair. "Barbara, you can help me here in the kitchen, okay?" When dinner was ready, Eleanor put on a fresh print dress, combed her black hair, and lightly touched her lips with lipstick. She was excited and happy. Her cheeks had a rosy glow. That night when Chris entered his home, soft candlelight surrounded him, and soft music played in the background. 'In one fleeting glance he took in his surroundings, and then his eyes rested upon Eleanor. 195 "What's the occasion?" He couldn't hide the surprise upon his face. "Are we expecting company for supper?" Eleanor took her husband to one side, "Chris, I feel that I owe you an apology for acting the way that I have. I'm very pleased that the Lord wants you for his work. I know that I behaved very badly, and well — this is just my way of showing you how wrong I was." 'There were tears glistening in Eleanor's eyes. Chris put his arms about his wife. "Don't think I don't understand what you were going through. I just know that everything will turn out fine. I didn't want to turn down such a wonderful calling for your sake and the children's sake. I know that the Lord will guide us and bless us." "T know it, too, Chris," Eleanor said, squeezing her husband's hand. "With you by my side, Eleanor, I feel even more assured. I'm so thankful for you." Chris' expression showed his humility and love. Jess marched into the room, stood before his parents, and placed his hands upon his hips. "What we want to know is, what's the surprise for Daddy? No one seems to know around here." "Yes, they do, dear. Your father and I know, and someday soon we will tell you children." "Oh," Jess said, satisfied with his mother's answer. "Can't we eat now, Mom? 'That chocolate cake sure does look good, and I'm too hungry to care about anybody's surprise." Eleanor and Chris laughed as they clasped hands and. Together walked into the dining room to join their children at the table.