About Grandmothers Linnie F. Robinson AST summer I was at a lovely garden party, and by the time the delicious food was all eaten and everyone had met everyone else and had chatted together, we were in a mood for music. The hostess asked her young daughter to play some records of familiar songs and lead the group in singing together. Accordingly, the daughter complied, but in the first song (which must have been her very first try out-of-doors), her voice sounded thin, as did the voices of the others, which were also a bit too far away for best results. She began to waver and looked rather uncertain about going on. 'The mother, who is not an accomplished singer herself, stood perfectly still and smilingly expected her daughter to hang on with her job; but the grandmother, with the priority of age, moved out of the crowd nearer to the grandchild's side and joined her own voice with the granddaughter's, as if it were something they did all the time. The granddaughter rallied immediately, and the singing went off famously. But at the end of the singing, I saw the granddaughter squeeze her grandmother's hand, and I saw the smile the granddaughter received — there was perfect understanding between them. I have another dear friend who has a number of granddaughters, small and large, each one distinctly different but equally lovely. I am often invited to her daughter's home with her when they are having guests. Always there is one who comes to my friend for love and Page 196 creeps into her arms. This one, just five, is an exquisite child, almost too beautiful, and very sensitive. On one occasion I heard her say to her grandmother, "Sometimes when Mommy is cross I love you best." And I heard my friend answer, "I know, dear, that is just the way I felt when I was about your age, but I think you are growing up beautifully, just like a little lady, and I think you do everything your mother wishes, and you get better every year. I can see that before long Mommy won't even need to get cross ever, will she, love?" She kissed the child's forehead, and the little one was healed of her wound whether real or imaginary, and because of the grandmother's words, she felt better towards herself and acted like a little lady all evening. As we were leaving I heard the child's mother say to my friend, "Haven't the children been sweet? Before you came I spoke sharply to Sistie — I was nervous — I wish I wouldn't. She is such a good little girl — as they all are." My friend said: "I think you surely do well, my dear. It looks as if you get closer to your children all the time. Remember to breathe a little prayer when you get nervous or worried, and you will see how calm you can remain." Another time, a petulant young teenager, wanting complete independence, told my friend that she could hardly stand to practice any more and was going to quit. Her grandmother said, "You know, my ABOUT GRANDMOTHERS dear, that is the way I felt when I was your age, and | began to have tantrums — something they say I had never had as a baby, and my mother let me quit. She simply said "Yes." You can't know the hundreds of times I have wished that she had somehow found a way to have kept me at it. At least that is how I have felt since I grew old enough to know that those things I was eager to do didn't really count at all. I have met many others who are bitter about things they quit that would mean so much in their homes today and in everyday life. I somehow hope you will be able to see better than I could at your age. I have been so proud of you." ATER on that day, the teenager's mother asked her to help accompany a distinguished and beautiful singer who was there and had agreed to sing. The daughter picked up her violin and_ played almost professionally well, and with such feeling for the singer's every variation that she said she wished she had her two accompanists to take with her everywhere she went. I saw the teenage girl flush with pride and look at her grandmother. I think the girl saw for the first time the pleasure in her mother's and grandmother's faces. And then I thought of my own grandmother, the one who lived up through the orchard from us, if you took the short cut, which I always did. I never knew, I ran so fast, if my feet touched the ground or not. I marvel as I look back on those days that she was never cross with me. And then I always ran so fast and fell pell-mell against her door 197 — I marvel that she always opened it so quickly. I was so welcome at her home. I never thought to question that. I never thought about the fact that she was such a little grandmother, and her great front door was heavy to swing, or that there were times when she must have been busy or very tired. It amazes me, too, that she never hurried me home. During school days it was quite late when I got there, and sometimes my parents were too busy to notice [ was missing, but grandmother never sent me home until I wanted to go or my parents called my name. Grandmother visited with me. It is queer how she always had a book ready for me to read. She used to make some remark about the very kernel of the book, and then ruminate about some question half to herself and half to me, and I would be off to explore it myself. It was odd that she always had gingerbread cookies on hand, since she did not eat things like that, at all. And strange that she had time to teach me, in the summer, all there was to know about her beautiful flower garden. I remember kneeling with her to plant some bulbs among the showers of bleeding hearts — I remember the dampness and the coolness of junipers with violets at their feet, and the hummingbird that nested in that garden. Strange that grandmother knew about teenage problems, although no one called them so then, and she knew how to banish them, too. What would a child do without a grandmother?