Do You Want to Increase Relief Society Attendance? Phoenix Stake, Capitol Ward Children Lead the Way With Volunteer Teachers Margaret Fitzpatrick ARKING the completion of its first year, Phoenix Stake, Capitol Ward Junior Relief Society is "an unequivocal success," according to Relief Society President Alice Rhotan, and co-ordinator Margaret Fitzpatrick. "The children get their mothers out of bed in the wee hours of Relief Society day so that they won't miss their own classes!' And, if for some reason, a mother is unable to make it, the matter becomes a pint-sized tragedy, with the youngsters assuring their teacher on the next occasion, "It wasn't my fault — I really wanted to come." The Relief Society nursery is a program to insure that preschool children of Relief Society mothers have a planned program of their own, instead of merely being attended by baby sitters. The nursery became a reality in Capitol Ward last September. Mothers were asked to volunteer to teach this class, each for a fourweek period. In the beginning the activities included an opening prayer, a hymn, a fun song, a flannel board story, finger plays, a snack, participation in a handicraft, a nap, marching to and playing in a rhythm band, a read-aloud story, and a closing prayer. Later, this program was to broaden to include science, social Page 198 science, and art, as well as storytime, thythm, and more varied handicraft. Almost immediately the rowdlness typical of "nursery time" disappeared. With an organized teacher in charge, prepared and well supplied with materials, the youngsters settled down to being constructive and creative, and thoroughly to enjoy themselves. They were no longer helpless children dragged away from mother and deposited willy-nilly in a nursery to cry and fret. Indeed, they have become junior members of a real organization who are proud of their membership, and, reversing the usual order, insist on bringing mother to Relief Society, with prodding temarks, such as, "Aren't you ready yet?" Success of the program in Capitol Ward can be attributed to the wholehearted moral and financial support given it by Relief Society. The first thing the Relief Society did was to organize a birthday present party which resulted in a new record player, records, children's books, coloring books, crayons, paste, paper and scissors, and play dough. But that was only the beginning. Not having to pay a baby sitter, Capitol Ward diverted such monies towards additional weekly supplies, DO YOU WANT TO INCREASE RELIEF SOCIETY ATTENDANCE? 199 including such things as flour, salt, butter, eggs, popcorn, food coloring, and contact paper, as well as basic brushes, construction paper, corks, and pipe cleaners. ANOTHER important factor was the contribution by mothers of materials ordinarily discarded: spools, cartons, felt, nylon stockings, odds and ends of fabrics, pie tins, walnut shells, buttons, bits of yarn, feathers, all kinds of small boxes, ribbons, toothpicks, fancy paper, cards, and wooden ice cream spoons. "In fact," says Sister Rhotan, "no Relief Society child would allow his or her mother to throw anything away." All things, no matter how insignificant, had a use, the children knew. Egg cartons and toothpicks could be transformed into caterpillars to be painted with tongue-between-teeth concentration. Salt boxes and construction paper became totem poles, windmills, and lighthouses. Bags became — with a snip or two — crowns, helmets, caps, guided missiles. Milk cartons could be made into flower baskets and ship bases. Walnut shells, with a snip of tissue paper for sails, could be used for skimming water in pails, and, with a bit of felt, could be changed into turtles. Soon the Relief Society nursery was functioning as a kindergarten education. Class time was divided into six separate activity periods: storytime, science, social science, art, thythm, and handicraft, and included opening and closing prayer — plus a snack. Each period was sandwiched between brief physical action games. Within this framework, the teacher used the flannel board, blackboard, pad sketches, and puppets in dramatizing kindergarten level, as well as Bible and Book of Mormon stories. In science, for example, the nursery not only dealt with the story of weather and missile projection, but when it came to current events and interplanetary exploration, they did it in this fashion, the teacher had the children put self-made helmets over their heads and balloon projected paper missiles in their hands, and then took them on an imaginary journey to several other worlds in the galaxy.