Beverages Before a Dinner Winnifred C. Jardine 6 HAT shall we serve as a beverage or an appetizer before dinner?" is a question sincerely asked by Latter-day Saint women whenever they are entertaining. There are a multitude of answers. Some of them are found in the following recipes. Remember that beverages and appetizers served before a meal should be light enough and sparing enough to "pique" the appctite rather than to satisfy it. And the flavor should contrast with other flavors of the meal. This is what makes an "appetizer." CRANBERRY EGGNOG 2 eggs % ¢. Lemon juice* % Cc. Sugar 1/4 Cc. Orange juice* 7% tsp. Salt 2 c. Cranberry juice (*In all recipes calling for lemon and orange juice, reconstituted frozen or canned orange juice and frozen or canned lemon juice may be used, as well as the freshly reamed juice. ) Beat eggs until thick; add sugar and salt. Blend in fruit juices and pour over cracked ice in glasses. Makes five 8-0z. Glasses. Hort Spicep Fruit PuncH whole piece ginger root c. Orange juice c. Lemon juice qts. Apple cider 2% c. Sugar c. Water 2 full-size sticks cinnamon 8 allspice berries 10 cloves N NA Combine sugar and water; boil for 5 minutes. Remove from heat and add spices. Cover and allow to stand in warm place for 1 hour. Strain. Just before scrving, add juices and cider and bring quickly to boiling point. Remove from heat and serve at once. Makes 25 servings. Party Pinx Drink 4 ¢. Thubarb, cut up (1% lbs.) 2 ¢c. Sugar 2 c. Water ginger ale Cut rhubarb in 1-inch pieces. Combine sugar and water, add rhubarb, and simmer until tender. Strain (saving rhubarb pieces for pie or cobbler). Freeze juice. To serve, spoon frozen rhubarb juice that has been softened to mush into glasses and fill with ginger ale. Makes about 6 cups. Page 204 BEVERAGES BEFORE A DINNER 205 BANANA CRUSH 4 ¢c. Sugar 5 crushed bananas 6 c. Water 4 ¢. Pineapple juice 245 Cc. Orange juice ginger ale or substitute Y2 ¢. Lemon juice Make syrup of water and sugar by heating until sugar is dissolved. Combine with remaining ingredients and freeze. Fill glasses half full of banana freeze, softened to mush. Fill glasses full with sparkling water, ginger ale, or other colorless soft drinks. Makes enough to serve about 35 people. If desired, color fruit slush and serve with mint as a garnish. MuLtiep Apricot NECTAR 6 c. Apricot nectar 2 whole sticks cinnamon (or a 46-0z. Can) 15 whole cloves % lemon, sliced 8 allspice berries Combine all ingredients in heavy saucepan and bring to boiling point. Simmer gently 5 minutes. Remove from heat, cover, and allow to stand 30 minutes. Strain. If desired, sweeten to taste. Heat before serving. Makes about 5 cups. RASPBERRY FLOAT 3 3-0z. Packages raspberry- "2 ¢c. Lime juice flavored gelatin 2% c. Orange juice 4 c. Boiling water 1% c. Lemon juice 1% Cc. Sugar 1 qt. Ginger ale 4 c. Cold water 2 10-0z. Packages frozen raspberries Dissolve gelatin in boiling water; add sugar, cold water, and juices; cool, but do not chill or gelatin will congeal. (If it does congeal, heat just enough to liquify.) When time to serve, pour punch into punch bowl. Add ginger ale and frozen raspberries. Stir until raspberries break apart and are partially thawed. Makes about 4 quarts. GraPE COOLER 2 6-0z. Cans frozen lemonade concentrate 2 qts. Grape juice Dilute lemonade only half as much as directed on can. Pour into ice trays and freeze. 'lo serve, spoon frozen lemonade, softened to a mush, into glasses and fill with grape juice. Makes about 16 servings. Tomato Juice CockTAIL 2 c. Tomato juice 2 tsp. Finely minced onion 2 tsp. Vinegar 2 tbsp. Lemon juice 1 tbsp. Sugar % c. Diced celery "2 bay leaf 206 Mix ingredients. Let stand in refrigerator 30 minutes; strain. Serve cold. For variation, juice may be frozen to a mush and served in sherbet glasses. Makes 5 to 6 servings. Tancy TOMATO JUICE VARIATIONS 1. To each cup of tomato juice add % teaspoon of anchovy paste and a little lemon juice, salt and pepper to taste. Mix paste with a little juice first, to thin it, before mixing with entire amount. 2. Combine equal portions of tomato juice and canned bouillon; heat. 3. Combine equal parts tomato juice and sauerkraut juice; add Worcestershire sauce to taste. Chill. 4. Combine equal parts tomato juice and clam juice; season with minced onion, salt and pepper.