[Vol26 | April 1939 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Have You A Linford]
They suffered Him to die with thieves; yet He Forgave them, and forgave us all that we Might some day dwell with Him within that Heaven In peace and love for all eternity. Have You A Hobby? By Beatrice E. Linford N this busy, madly rushing world, do you still find that you have hours of leisure time on your hands, hours in which you seem utterly lost wishing for something interesting to do, hours that might easily be converted into pleasure and profit if one knew just how to use them? To a great many people the days are not long enough to execute the tasks required of them; yet there are also many who have endless, lonely, uninteresting hours on their hands. We hear a great deal about hobbies.
Have you a hobby? I asked this question of a particular group of adults not long ago.
They all answered, "No, we have no such a thing as a hobby."
Upon closer questioning, however, it was discovered that several of them had hobbies and were blissfully unaware of the fact. One woman, for instance, loved to make quilts, and another had a beautiful flower garden. - Just what is a hobby? To analyze it, I would say a hobby is something that we fancy, choose, and pursue at will, something we particularly enjoy doing, something we may do at will or discard at will.
That perhaps is the reason hobbies are so fascinating.
Some people have more than one hobby, thus satisfying their changeable moods and momentary interests.
Choosing a hobby is an entirely individual problem; no other person may choose your hobby for you. It must be something you love to do, something that will bring keen pleasure and delight. The types and kinds of hobbies are as varied as the types and kinds of individuals. So numerous are they that it would be impossible to enumerate them all in one short article.
Hobbies may be separated into four groups: The first group is collecting, which seems to be the most common and widely pursued by hobby seekers. One may collect anything from bugs to bedsteads. I know a person who collects elephants?no, not real, live flesh and blood elephants, but those carved from wood, ivory, or blown from glass. She has them in all conceivable sizes and colors.
Many people collect antiques which is a very interesting hobby, especially if the objects sought happen to be treasures of some dearly beloved ancestor or famous person. One may collect vases, rare prints, etchings, paintings, dolls, stamps, photographs, clippings, poetry, autographs, books or butterflies, according to his own fancy. The second group is creative hobbies. To me this is the most interesting of all the groups. To those who paint a picture, model a bust from clay, write a poem or a book comes the joy of creation, which is the most satisfying joy one can experience. In this group are placed such things as writing, painting, gardening, building, designing, flower arranging, basket making, copper hammering, leather tooling and wood carving. Of a little different type are: keeping a diary or family history, sculpturing, clay modeling, block printing, embroidering, sewing, 264 - APRIL, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE quilting, and recipe creating. It is quite impossible to name all the interesting and even unexplored fields for the creative person.
Just for a day, pause and take notice of your neighbors.
Show me the one who is interested in really doing something, and I will show you a happy person. "But I cannot do any of those things. I can't paint a picture or write a poem," I hear you say. How many individuals have thought the same thing; and, of course, if that is what they think, they naturally can't do things. But on the other hand, if they think they can, of course they will be able to. A third group is hobbies for acquiring knowledge. Of course, we all continue learning day after day, year after year, as a natural result of our experience. However, there are certain fields of study to which we become attached, so fascinating are they to us that we wish to learn all there is to know on the subject, thus we take up our hobby of acquiring knowledge.
Some of the studies man finds interesting are: history, art, architecture, aeronautics, economics, astronomy, botany, minerology, genealogy, entomology, languages, mathematics, meteorology, ornithology, zoology, music, psychology, physics, paleontology, and all the other ologies that are so very fascinating to certain individuals. Indeed, civilization owes untold debts to those who have followed one or more of these fields. Of learning to the point where they themselves have contributed some great truth to the field of modern thought and science. To the fourth group is attached the name hobbies of action.
