[Vol26 | April 1939 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: Out-of-door Development (Continuation)]

standing from year to year. We become so used to them they are hardly noticed, but the stranger is shocked at their ugliness. Remove them and see what a different picture is possible.

The garage, which has now become a necessity, is the logical nucleus of the outdoor service. Farm property is often treated similarly, with the garage the center of the service directly related to the house; while the barn, farther removed, belongs to the group of other farm buildings not necessarily in connection with the family living quarters. Many practical solutions in modern building include the garage as a unit of the house. All in all our utmost efforts should be used to make this service area convenient, of minimum space, and inconspicuous as possible.

NOW turn to the property that remains. Measure it carefully and make a plan of it on paper, for convenience sake allowing one-fourth inch to represent one foot existing. At this stage do not exclaim, "Oh I cannot do things like that—I never could draw anything!" With determination make an attempt. It may prove to be rather a curious shape when you have it completed, suggesting two or more areas. That only makes its possibilities more interesting. Be sure to show all buildings or construction of any kind and trees or shrubs already growing. Note the directions, North, East, and South, conspicuously, so you can keep in mind where the sun will shine and where shadows fall. Then ask yourself, "Where does the house 'connect' with this area?" For this is to be the private area, the outdoor living room, the spot you call your own. In order to really enjoy it, you must be able to reach it easily and preferably get at least a glimpse of it from the indoor living room. A slight change of the house itself may be necessary to accomplish this. But it is often simple to change a back bedroom to a study or sun room. Additional use may come from converting a window into a French door or even knocking out a section of the wall to allow for a door. Never will a door open upon more pleasure for you than when it opens directly into your garden.

An open terrace adjoining this doorway can be very inexpensive and a most desirable link between the indoors and outdoors. There are usually several ways to solve the problem of getting directly to the garden, and all should be studied to be sure the one best suited is chosen. It is much wiser to do this "on paper" before time and money are spent than to plunge in and then in disappointment say, "I wish I'd thought of that other way before!" A happy relationship between the indoors and the garden, more than any other factor, assures delight in the garden itself.

Once this is determined the next procedure is to enclose it. Due regard has been given the neighbors and the public, but this area, to be our own, must be private; and to be private it must be entirely shut off from prying eyes. There are many ways of doing this. One of the most beautiful methods is with high plantings of shrubs or hedges which need not necessarily be expensive. The old-fashioned privet, Ligustrum vulgare, for example, has wonderful possibilities for such use. It grows readily from cutting, is not exacting in soil requirements and makes an excellent background either growing naturally or clipped as a hedge.

One thing to especially remember in enclosing a garden is that it is not "enclosed" unless the enclosure is above eye level, really making a screen. Often in a very small space it is better to use a lattice fence and vines in order to conserve space, but always the fence must be six feet high if it is to be properly effective. Sometimes this enclosure is also needed to shut out unsightly things beyond. Then what is called a background screen is often successful. This would be a planting of one or two trees along with large, rapid-growing shrubs with yet smaller, compact ones in the foreground to make a pleasing "mass" effect in all and at the same time serve a special purpose.

Once we have our area related to the indoors and enclosed, it only remains for us to carry out our heart's desire—but on paper first! The results we hope for will be much more certain if we do it first by plan. A shrub can be moved, an existing tree taken into consideration so much more thoroughly if we do it first in our minds. Once the scheme is developed we can stay steadfastly to our purpose and with the minimum of discouragement reach our goal.

An occasional traveler passing through a town may have leisure to visit the library, may even be informed of an unusual collection or exhibit, but all will notice the width and cleanliness of the streets, appreciate shade of lovely trees and get a general impression of the individual houses. It is your house and mine, with friendly trees to soften the lines of the roof, with thriving shrubs to add to the substantial, lived-in appearance, and a neat, green lawn adjoining one home to another which unifies the picture—a picture of security, civic pride and friendliness—which will happily be remembered and admired.
