

Social Work (Historical Sketch) By Amy Brown Lyman THE practice of giving aid to | the poor is probably as old as society itself. Traces of Charity work are to be found among all the peoples of antiquity, and beggars have been known to all literature. The Chinese, long before Christ, established refuges for the aged and poor sick; Buddha taught that it was a duty of society to alleviate the pains and miseries of human life; the ancient Greeks and Romans contributed money liberally for the care of the poor. The motives which prompt charitable deeds have not always been the highest. The desire to help another for his own sake has often been supplemented by and in some cases substituted by a desire upon the part of the giver to gain favor and reward for himself or to prevent bad luck or disaster which he feared might follow refusal. Such ideas were rather prevalent in ancient times, as the following quotations indicate: "The riches of an infinite God will be bestowed upon him who relieves the poor;" "The house that does not open to the poor shall open to the physician." With the ancient Jews it was a religious duty to care for their needy. The Jewish law made charity an obligation. The well-to-do were even assessed for the benefit of the poor. Especial attention was given to the rearing of orphans which was regarded as the highest form of charity. It was considered a privilege rather than an act of charity to become foster parents to destitute orphan children. Ap EE teachings of the Savior put philanthropy upon a_ higher plane than it had reached before. All life was purified and elevated through Him. New ideals and new standards of conduct were introduced into every phase of human relations. When Christ said: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind, and thy neighbor as thyself," and when he gave, by way of further explanation of this idea, the parable of the Good Samaritan, he introduced new incentives into charitable endeavor—brotherly love and human sympathy. During the brief period of Christ's time and immediately thereafter, the new Christian groups which were organized into small assemblies or churches, practiced the voluntary charity which had been introduced by the Savior. This method of ' spontaneous mutual aid prevailed among them generally until the time of Constantine, when the church in its changed condition arose to great and unprecedented power, and _ became the state religion of the Roman Empire. DURING the Middle Ages, charity degenerated to a great extent into alms-giving for the benefit of the giver. The religious merit of almsgiving was so emphasized that the particular needs of the poor were secondary. Outside of the work done by the Jews for their own people, and the alms given personally by wealthy individuals, SOCIAL WORK 5 the great Roman Church was practically the only agency for the administration of relief. The methods of helping were through indiscriminate almsgiving at the doors of the monasteries where the poor gathered in hordes asking for help, and through two types of institutions established in connection with the monasteries—one, hospitals for the poor sick, the other, similar institutions for the care of the aged, orphans and widows. At church doors and in other public places there was also begging. Although the churches made great effort to discourage it, begging became quite general everywhere, and finally got beyond control. It was apparent to churchmen themselves that the indiscriminate almsgiving at the monasteries and similar medieval institutions was failing as a means of caring for the poor and was contributing to professional beggary. Due to the idea which was prevalent that "alms have power to expiate sin,' people gave large sums to church charity thus seeking forgiveness of their sins. And so began the sale of indulgences authorized by the popes and church councils. It was not uncommon for hospital authorities to sell forgiveness of sins for donations to their respective institutions. In spite of the weakness of ecclesiastical charities of the Middle Ages, the fact remains that the Catholic Church did a stupendous work in alleviating physical pain and distress which would never have been accomplished but for its influence. And furthermore the Church stimulated and cultivated a general spirit of helpfulness. EALIZING that dependents were constantly on the increase, and feeling that the ecclesiastical agencies had not succeeded in handling charity, the state finally interfered. In practically all of the European countries, serious efforts were made first to eliminate begging by severely punishing beggars, and when this failed the work was taken over by the state. In Scandinavia, this occurred at an early period; in England, at the time of the Reformation, when the monasteries were dissolved by Henry VIII; in France, at the time of the Revolution; and in Switzerland and Germany following the Reformation. After the state took over the charity work, however, there was very little improvement for a long time. The development of public relief in the various countries was a slow process. England, with her Poor Laws designed to regulate and systematize public relief, led all other countries, and her system has influenced social work in America more than that of any other country, pee beginning of the English Poor Laws was in 1536, when it was decreed that begging must go; that the poor were to remain in their own districts, and be helped by the local authorities; that poor funds were to be raised by collection of alms in the "common boxes" of the churches; that straying indigents were to be whipped and sent to their own parishes. Later the parish was required to furnish work to able-bodied persons in need. The law was supplemented from time to time and finally, in 1601, the various provisions relating to the poor were brought together linto what seemed a model law. Among other things, it divided the poor into three classes—able-bodied, those unable to work, and children —all of whom were to be treated according to their needs. A tax system was levied on property to increase the inadequate funds. In 6 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE 1834 the law was further supplemented and developed, and authority was concentrated in a national department. It has since been amended from time to time. The Poor Law was enforced rigidly in some localities and indifferently in others, thus failing to meet the needs. The system was a great step forward nevertheless. It undertook to organize and systematize relief giving, it contributed the idea of national responsibility in relief work, and finally it has seemed to recognize the inadequacy of mere charity and the necessity of preventive work. HE next advancement was the movement for the organization of charity which began in Germany and England about the same time. It came as a protest to the grave abuse of charitable relief then obtaining. In Hamburg, a free city which was wealthy and over-run by beggars, there was a reorganization of relief work in 1788, and later, in 1852, the plan was modified and adopted in Elberfeldt. There was a central bureau of charity to supervise all charitable work. The city was divided into precincts with a superintendent for each, and the precincts divided into districts, with a visitor for each. The poor were classified and the duties of the visitors were similar to those of the modern family visitor. N 1869 the London Charity Organization. Society, a private agency, was organized. It was the climax of charitable endeavor, and has been a pattern for such organization in America. Its object was to organize and coordinate relief, and to study causes of poverty and develop all possible substitutes for relief giving. There were in London at that time numerous organizations working independently and duplicating one another's work; clever people were getting help from a number of sources while the backward and perhaps more needy were overlooked, and there was indiscriminate alms-giving on every hand. The movement was inaugurated by a group of church and university men and some forward looking workers in the field of social reform. Among the policies of the society were: correlation of the work of agencies, district conferences, and case-work methods—the latter embracing the study and treatment of each individual or family as an individual problem. The Charity Organization Movement later spread to America. The first of such organizations here was the Buffalo, New York Society founded in 1877. [s the United States in early times each case of need was considered and provided for individually by town or county officials. Later, there was a system of out-door relief supplemented by the establishment of alms-houses where at first all classes of needy individuals were placed, including tramps, dependent aged and children, insane, feeble-minded, blind, deaf, confinement cases, etc. BY the end of the 19th century, however, the country had witnessed many changes for the better. A number of institutions and agencies had been established to meet the special needs of the differently handicapped, and charity organization societies had taught superior methods of dealing with individual cases in distress and of handling out-door relief. Private institutions including both Church and non-sectarian agencies had come into existence supplementing the work of the tax supported public SOCIAL WORK 7 agencies. A wave of humanitarian sympathy and scientific inquiry had spread over the country creating a new interest in human beings, There were also social and economic changes including the rise of the middle classes—the working people —who set about to improve their condition through legislative action, being assisted by social minded individuals. Attention was given by them to the protection of health, medical service, sanitation of factories, compensation for accidents, provision of regular employment with shorter hours and better wages, child care including education and recreation. N the present century attention has been focused upon prevention, the idea being that prevention is better than relief. The failure of the old-fashioned charity was no doubt due to the fact that it was merely palliative, paying attention only to those already in trouble. Welfare work today calls for the getting to the very roots of trouble and sparing nothing which may be involved in the process, preventing a recurrence of those conditions which cause distress, and giving people an opportunity for normal life. The steps are first, curative—relieving those already in distress and destitution; secondly, preventive—guarding against the recurrence of conditions which cause distress and poverty, and thirdly, constructive—putting forth effort to raise human life to its highest level. Many 'people today believe that all welfare work should be done by public agencies supported 'by taxation, and that private agencies are not needed. Others favor a combination of both, maintaining that the private agencies are necessary to lead the way and set the standards. There are still others who claim that the type of work done is more important than the type of agency under which it is done. MONG the agencies organized in the United States in the 19th century is our own L, D. S. Relief Society founded in 1842, a private church agency auxiliary to the L. D. S. Church. Its life of eighty-eight years has covercd the most interesting period in the whole history. And development of social work. The Relief Society was organized for spiritual, educational, and philanthropic purposes and functions under the direction of the presiding and local bishops in whom is vested the responsibility for the charity work of the Church. It is a great outdoor relief agency with 1665 local organizations, in each of which is a department of charity and health. In each local organization the Relief Society president has charge of the charity and health work, this being one of her most important duties. Where necessary she calls to her assistance a worker or aid especially designated for this work. She cooperates closely with the bishop of the ward and works under his direction. In addition to a regular monthly conference of the bishopric and Relief Society presidency there is constant communication and consultation between them. To the Relief Society has ibeen given the special work of family investigation and family planning, the final disposition being usually a joint decision. The Relief Society president also coperates with the county and any other agency interested in the family being helped. The district visiting teachers or friendly visitors visit all the families of the Church monthly, 8 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE irrespective of their needs or social status and receive funds from them which are contributed for relief purposes. It is the policy of the L. D. S. Church to have its charity work administered by volunteer workers, the only exception being the work done under the direction of the General Board in the Social Service Department at Relief Society Headquarters in Salt Lake City, a case working agency which supervises and supplements the regular work of the Society in the city and provides a laboratory for experimental and training purposes. For a number of years the Society has been working constantly to improve its methods of welfare work. It has no blanket plan of caring for the needy, but aims to treat individuals according to their individual needs, aiming as far as possible, to meet the requirements set 'by standardized social caseworking agencies. In addition to its welfare work, the Relief Society has a second well-estsablished department which cooperates closely with the welfare department.. JIt is the education department with a uniform course of study for the benefit of memHers. These 'two departments —education and welfare — react most favorably and_ beneficially upon each other to the great advantage of the organization generally. The education department features, among other subjects, studies in social welfare which stimulate and create interest in the actual projects in welfare work and social reform which the Society is sponsoring; while the various local workers who are dealing with the actual problems in turn vitalize and stimulate the class work. Because of its comprehensive organization and methods of cooperation, the Relief Society is wellfitted for community work, and in addition to its special mission of caring for the poor and sick it has, from the beginning, fostered any and all movements which have had for their object the improvement of civic conditions and the development of community life. It has worked among other things for woman suffrage, for educational projects, pure water supplies, sanitation and for social legislation. In the objects, aims and standards of its welfare work the Relief Society is striving to meet the national standards for such work. It believes in organized relief, and has from the beginning discouraged indiscriminate individual giving. It is making every effort to improve its curative work by giving training to its volunteer workers. It has always stood for preventive work, its program of prevention and social reform going hand in hand with its curative and corrective work. Its combined program of education, service and religion, is comprehensive and constructive, designed to help those in distress, to prevent social ills, to provide for educational opportunity and religious development and to foster constructive movements which have for their object wholesome, abundant life for all.
