[Vol54 | February 1967 | Page 115 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | ]
[Woman's Sphere]

of Helena, Montana, is the new head of the Utah State Health Department's Chronic Disease and Heart Section. For sixteen years she was director of the Montana Heart Diagnostic Center, an activity of the Montana State Board of Health. She was born in Minneapolis, received her B. A. And M. D. Degrees from the University of Minnesota, and took her postgraduate training in internal medicine at Lakeside Hospital, Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio. In addition to her many civic responsibilities with the Montana State Medcal Association, she was a member of the Board of Trustees of the Great Falls, Montana Public Schools at the time of her Utah appointment. Rilda Bee O'Bryan Cliburn, mother of the famous pianist Van Cliburn, was her son's only teacher until he began to study at Juilliard in 1952. Mrs. Cliburn is currently appearing with her son in television concerts in the color special ''A Portrait of Van Cliburn." Montserrat Cabale, a thirty-two-year-old Spanish soprano, has already won world acclaim. In superb performances of "Casta Diva,'' and other arias from Bellini and Donizetti, her voice has been praised as "full, pure, and effortless." Her first appearance in the United States was in April 1965, and she was received ''with instant great approval." Dr. Sylvia Cassell, psychologist, has pioneered a volunteer puppet program at Children's Memorial Hospital, Chicago, to calm the fears of young patients. The child sees a puppet patient on a small operating table, under a miniature X-ray machine and learns that it is necessary to lie quietly so the picture will not be fuzzy. A doctor puppet talks to the live child (often with the voice of Dr. Cassell herself). In this way the small patient is prepared for his examinations, dye tests, X-ray pictures, treatments, surgery — frequently heart surgery. 'Malvina Hoffman, ''the most renowned woman sculptor of moderns,'"' worked for years on an autobiography, ''Yesterday Is Today,'' which was published in 1965 by Crown Publishers, New York. She died in July 1966, at the age of eighty-one, leaving a prodigious number of works, carved in marble, bronze, and stone, many of them far larger than life-sized. Her ''personal history," as is her sculpture, is created from her heart and enriches the reader in intellectual, spiritual, and esthetic dimensions. The best known work of Miss Hoffman, a pupil of Auguste Rodin, is the ''Races of Man'' group in the Hall of Man in the Chicago Natural History Museum.