[Vol54 | February 1967 | Page 114 | Special Feature | Reduce Your Risk of | Heart Attack]
Reduce Your Risk of Heart Attack Health Project For Everyone The American Heart Association In the search for a way to prevent heart attacks and strokes, scientists have studied the living habits and medical records of thousands of persons in middle age. The studies showed that those who had heart attacks had one or more of the following conditions or living habits: M@ High levels of cholesterol! Or other fatty substances in the blood M@ Overweight M@ High blood pressure @ Lack of exercise M@ Cigarette smoking @ Diabetes M@ A family history of heart attacks in middle age It appears that any one of these habits or conditions, called risk factors, increases the chances of a heart attack, and a combination of two or more factors multiplies the risk. These habits usually are formed in childhood with the influence of parents. Children imitate their parents, so in eating, watching TV, youngsters very early become subjected to risk factors. When they reach adulthood, the habits are firmly entrenched. The early detection of major risks is one of the most encouraging advances in medical knowledge, for it points to precautions we all! Can take to increase our chances of living longer and enjoying good health. What are the risks you should avoid? Your doctor can best answer these questions. Everyone should have periodic physical check-ups. While there is still no ironclad proof that reducing the known risks will prevent heart attacks, most of the scientific evidence today points that way. At the very least, reducing the risks can result in good general health and physical fitness for every member of the family. Children stand to benefit most of all, by learning early in life to avoid eating and living patterns that may lead to premature heart disease in adulthood. HELP YOUR HEART FUND! HELP YOUR HEART! 114 Ramona W. Cannon Anita Brenner (widow of Dr. David Glusker) is editor of ''Mexico This Month,'"' which presents in color the scenic beauty of that country, and directs tourists where to go and what to see, and whets the appetite for Mexican cuisine, dating back to early Mayan culture. Although she is not Mexican (her parents immigrated to Mexico from Latvia), she has lived many years in Mexico and entertains distinguished visitors at her home in Lomas, a suburb of Mexico City. She also owns a large ranch and is a specialist in growing many exotic varieties of peppers and herbs requisite for use in traditional Mexican cookery. Betty S. Gilson, M. D.,
