[Vol54 | February 1967 | Page 97 | Special Feature | The Class Leader Makes the Difference Alma | P. Burton]
Having made these introductory remarks, I should like now to discuss with you why 'The Class Leader Makes the: Difference." I. Attitude of the Teacher It is of utmost importance that you view your calling with a positive attitude. This is particularly significant because you are the most important visual aid that will ever be presented to your class. No visual aid that you prepare will be as effective in promoting your lesson as your own personal self. Therefore, you must maintain a positive attitude regarding your position of leadership. Keep constantly in mind the fact that your class members have come to learn, that some of them have made certain sacrifices in order to be in attendance on 

97 February 1967

 that particular day. Many years ago while working as an assistant manager in a J. C. Penney's store, Mr. J. C. Penney visited our store. He talked with the customers as they came in, and visited with the clerks during that afternoon. In the evening he held a meeting with the employees. I remember only one statement he made, and it was that we should never say to a person who comes into the store, "You don't want to buy something, do you?" I was rather young at the time, but I still remember the impression which this statement made upon me, and how effective it has been in helping me since that time. He said we must always assume that a person who comes into the store has come with the purpose in mind of making a purchase. I submit this same suggestion to you with respect to teaching. You must assume that your class leaders have made considerable preparation and, oftentimes, a definite sacrifice to be present in your department on that particular day because they want to learn. They want the help that you can give them. Use the positive approach. You should have a positive attitude about the materials which have been prepared for use during the year. These lesson materials have been prepared by very capable men and women. Do not find fault with what has been prepared. Do not spend time criticizing it. Use your precious hour in a positive way. Adapt the materials to your situation. The lesson materials have been prepared with the view in mind of giving you the best possible as- 98 sistance. By adopting a positive attitude toward what has been prepared, you will avail yourself of greater strength and power in giving your lesson. Assume the attitude that this is your day and your opportunity and that you have every right to experience success and to find real joy. If you cannot view your position in a positive way, and if you are unable to experience real joy as the social relations leader, perhaps you should consult with your Relief Society president. The attitude of the teacher is all important. A teacher who possesses a strong positive attitude toward her responsibility has acquired one of the most fundamental and important tools for teaching. Il. Lesson Preparation Age should not make a difference in Relief Society. Our great and beloved prophet, President David O. McKay, is one of the most prominent examples of this fact that the world has ever known. On his ninetieth birthday he remarked that he did not feel old and that, although his body was unable to respond as it had done in his earlier years, still his spirit and attitude were that of being young and having love for life and all it affords. My wife had an interesting experience in the social relations department last year when she was choosing a cast for a presentation. One part called for an elderly lady. She chose a sister who was about eighty years old, and when discussing the part to be played, the lady who had had eighty birthdays, but still thought young, said to her, "How The Class Leader Makes the Difference do you want me to dress, as an old lady?" We must always think of our class members as being young at heart. Age should never be a barrier to learning, particularly to learning the things which are presented in Relief Society for the betterment of the home and family. Successful preparation can only be made when the leader bears in mind that age does not make a difference as far as alertness is concerned, and that one should always think of her class members as individuals who have a real desire to improve their knowledge. Successful preparation is best accomplished when the class leader has the class members in mind. Each stake is different and each ward is different. We must determine how best to meet the particular situation that confronts us. The same preparation would not be made to teach every class in the Relief Society social relations department of the Church in exactly the same way. Each leader must have the members of her group or class in mind as she prepares her materials. In this matter of preparation we need to work smarter not harder. The following three suggestions need to be kept in mind in preparing lesson materials: 1. Read yourself full 2. Think yourself empty 3. Talk yourself clear After you have read fully, have thought carefully, and have talked over the ideas to yourself, then try these ideas on your husband and your mature children. ° If what you have prepared is not clear to them nor you, it will not be clear to your class. Conversely, if what you have prepared is clear and meaningful to you, and if these materials are interesting to your husband and your mature children, then you may safely assume (keeping the fact in mind that you must relate them to your particular class) that they will be acceptable to your group. This is what is called maturing the preparation. When the Lord makes a squash it only takes a few months, but for an oak tree it takes 100 years. Make your lesson more enduring than pumpkins. Mature it well. The quality of the lesson will depend on the amount of time devoted to its preparation. However, remember also that one hour of thoughtful preparation is worth more than thirty-six hours of worrying and stewing. But, no matter how well prepared you are, you must not assume that you are the final word in everything to everyone. One should always assume that there will be times when it is highly appropriate to say, "I don't know." The story is told of a young kindergarten child who was drawing with crayons on a piece of paper one morning, and his teacher approached and asked, 'What are you drawing, Sonny?" He said, "I am drawing a picture of heaven and hell." She replied that no one knew what heaven and hell looked like, and he quickly answered, 'They will when I get through with this picture." However good your preparation may be, there will be some things about which someone else may be able to give a better answer than you. You should al- 

992 February 1967

 ways keep yourself in a frame of mind where you are willing to receive suggestions from others when you reach points that you are not as capable of handling as are they, and involve them in the presentation. This can be done most successfully by making a special assignment prior to the class period. My grandfather was a blacksmith. Among other things, he repaired wagon wheels. As a youngster, I watched him take a wagon wheel apart, repair it, and then put it back together again. I remember seeing him take the hub, which was the main point of beginning -for his wheel, and when he was certain that the hub was sound, he would begin to place the spokes into the hub. Each spoke had to be fitted securely into the hub; and one by one he placed the spokes into it until they were all properly secured. When the spokes had been placed in the wheel, and the connections had been placed between the ends of the spokes in the outer area of the wheel, he would perform the final work to his wheel by encasing it with a large iron tire. Lesson preparation should follow this same procedure. The teacher approaches her subject, the hub or the center of her work and establishes the fact that it is sound. She defines it carefully; then she begins to put into the hub each fact which relates to the central theme as one would the spokes of a wheel. When all of the material has been placed in its proper relationship to the hub, the teacher should then show the working relationship of the total lesson by inserting the 100 connecting pieces at the outer edges, and, finally, by summarization and conclusion, she should put the band about her lesson as one would the iron rim around the wheel. When the wheel is complete, it will perform its particular function; and, when a lesson is prepared in this manner, the message will bear fruit in the lives of her Relief Society sisters and their families. Lil. Presentation of Your Lesson Do not view each class member as sitting on the edge of her seat waiting for you to give your "interesting" lesson. Rather, view her as thinking about the mending she must finish when she returns home; the meal she must prepare for company tonight; the struggle she is having in paying her bills; or the problem her husband has encountered in his work. If you view the members of the class in that light, you will approach your task more humbly, no matter how well prepared you are. If you think only of the wonderful presentation you are going to make and how anxious they all will be to hear it, you will be less effective. The story is told of a young man who was overly impressed with himself and his ability. One Sunday the bishop called on him to respond extemporaneously in sacrament meeting. He walked up the aisle in an extremely confident manner. As he stood at the pulpit his thoughts failed him and, after a few minutes of stumbling over his words, he returned to his seat in a very dejected way. Following the meeting, an older man who had had considerable experience in the The Class Leader Makes the Difference Church approached the young man and said, '"'Son, if you had gone up like you came back, you could have come back like you went up." The following ideas may assist you in thinking about the presentation of your material. First of all, view your audience as sitting there with a don't care or sleepy attitude, and realize that you must get their attention if you are going to present your material successfully. Secondly, view them as having responded to your introduction, but now saying to themselves '""Now why did she bring that up?" Even when you have caught their attention they will challenge you to keep it. Remember that they still have these other problems in the back of their minds, even though they are looking right at you with attentive eyes. Now that you have caught their attention and you are starting them on the journey of the lesson for that day, you must repeatedly give to them thoughts that will center and focus their attention upon the theme that you are developing. This is where you give the body of your lesson —the "for instances," and "the spokes in the wheel," if you will. Finally, you need to bring your presentation to a conclusion that they may know the real purpose of your message. You should view them at this point as looking up at you and saying to themselves, "So what?" If your lesson has been built successfully throughout the hour it will not be difficult for them to comprehend the points that you have been making. In other words, the more successfully one teaches the main part of her lesson from the introduction to the time of the conclusion, the easier it will be to draw the conclusion. When you conclude, do it with a call for action. Use complete and meaningful ideas, using words which you are capable of successfully presenting and words which your listening audience will understand and appreciate. Dr. Karl G. Maeser stated: "The truly educated man will always speak to the most unlearned of his audience." IV. Class Reaction and Involvement You may not get every person involved in the discussion every time, but every class member should became involved in the thinking process about the subject during each class period. The teachers keep all of the members involved by their personal contact with them, by using their eyes in turning attention to the different parts of the room, and meeting eye to eye those who are present in the class. People do not become a part with you in "thinking" unless you bring them into the act—that is, unless you involve them. Let us look at some hypothetical examples of how not to teach if you want involvement: Teacher A knows her material well. She can tell it beautifully, but she looks up at one spot toward the back of the room during the entire period. What do you think is going on in the class members' minds while she is teaching? Teacher B, when someone in the class attempts to raise a question, listens to the question and then says, "We haven't time 

101 February 1967

 to discuss that now," or "That is something that will come up in next month's lesson." Her preoccupation with her subject matter is so important that she forgets her class. Teacher C has the type of class where everyone can make any contribution that she may wish. The teacher comments, "Well, that was an interesting idea," or "It could be that that is right," or "Would someone else like to say something on that point before we leave it?" Then, to make matters worse, she does not draw the discussion to a conclusion. No one knows whether or not the teacher has a_ testimony or whether or not the answer given is the one that is in line with Church doctrine. Why should class members be interested in the presentation of Teacher A when she shows little or no interest in them? Why should class members be interested in the presentation of Teacher B when she is not interested in what they are thinking? Why should class members be interested in the presentation of Teacher C when she does not exert her privilege as the leader of the group? These types of teachers are like the story of the scoutmaster who was having difficulty in keeping up with his troop. Finally, he called ahead to them, "Wait for me. I'm your leader." Leadership in the classroom must be exercised for the good of the group both individually and collectively. We must involve the members of the class. Now, what should Teacher A have done? Or Teacher B? Or Teacher C? In each instance, had 102 the teacher prepared her material and presented it with the thought in mind of involving those who were in attendance, she would not have performed the way she did. It is important that you involve those who are present in your group, that you show interest in them and in their questions, and that you draw the best possible conclusions, in the light of the discussion, that can be made. Above all, you should leave your testimony because you are the leader. You are the one who needs to inspire the class members. As mentioned in the beginning, you have the calling, and the spirit of the Lord will bless you with particular gifts and will make you equal to your calling if you do your part. Do all you can to make your lesson profitable in the lives of the members of your class. Think of them collectively, but also think of them individually. Send them home with some food for thought. V. Call for Action Ask yourself, "Why am I doing what I am doing in this class this day?" In fact, this is a question that you should keep in mind from the beginning of your preparation. Your answer should be that you are preparing the members of your class in such a way that when they go home they will be dedicated to the proposition of becoming better wives to their husbands and better mothers to their children. We are, in the Priesthood meetings, attempting to assist the brethren better to understand their role as husband and father; and the Relief Societies The Class Leader Makes the Difference are expected to help to train the wives better to understand their role as mothers and wives and to complement the efforts of their husbands in developing a Priesthood-centered home. Great good can come from your efforts, if you perform well as the leader of the social relations department of the Relief Society. The homes of the saints will be strengthened as a result of. Your efforts. Some excellent examples of a "call for action" which the Lord has made through his appointed representatives are those given by Paul the apostle and the Prophet Joseph Smith. (Read Ephesians 5:22-31 and Colossians 3:18-21; also DHC IV, pp. 604-605, 606-607 on women's characteristics and the need of living up to one's privileges.) If you can instill in the hearts of your ward class leaders these great messages (as stated in the foregoing quotations) so that they, in turn, will send their class members home with a determination to be better wives and mothers, you will have accomplished your task. This is your challenge. This is the challenge to every ward class leader of the social relations department. VI. Summary and Conclusion Remember, my dear sisters, you are the only one who can discharge this responsibility, so long as you hold the position. Secondly, there is a special blessing that comes with every calling in the Church. Strive to obtain your privileged blessing in this calling that has come to you. Attempt to follow the five points listed below. 1. Positive Attitude Keep a positive attitude. This special calling has come to you that you may influence for good the members of the Relief Society of the Church. Look with a positive attitude upon your task. 2. Lesson Preparation You cannot teach something you have not prepared. The Lord will not respond to an empty mind any more than a bucket can be filled from an empty well. Prepare well for your task! 3. Presenting Your Materials This is your day and your opportunity to influence for good the lives of your class members. One's attitude may be ever so proper and one's prepparation may be ever so complete, but if it is not delivered successfully the results will not be obtained. 4. Class Reaction and Involvement The best teachers keep the total membership of their class in mind, and they labor to have each member become interestingly involved in the lesson. 5. Call for Action Send your ward class leaders home with a renewed interest in the great privilege of being celestial wives to celestial husbands, having in view that they are developing an eternal family unit to live in the presence of our Heavenly Parents and our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I humbly bear my testimony to the divinity of this great work in which we are engaged. I bear witness to the fact that God lives, and that he is ever ready and willing to assist and bless us as we petition him for his help, that Jesus Christ is the Savior of this world, and the Redeemer of all mankind; that this Church is the only true Church; and that President David O. McKay is the prophet, seer, and revelator of God on earth—the one to whom God reveals his will for all people. I bear witness to these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. 103 we 2, a Dorothy J. Roberts THE FATHER Dorothy J. Roberts Sabbath was a beloved word— Peace lent him a pillow Coming on velvet feet— And sieep—he kept the law, To bring a father home again Wheat in bin and furrow From the furrow and the wheat... And for his cattle, straw. He had his fields, his family, Tithe and Sabbath offering, The Sabbath and ''The Rod," Bathed and in his best, The brother and the sister Never once to deviate Akin by blood or God. Or break the day of rest.... 104 Sabbath, more than anything— Coming on velvet feet— Can bring a father back again From the golden years of wheat. Chapter 1 @ From the time the train left Omaha, the landscape seemed to match Nora Blake's spirits. As the train neared the mountains, however, and she saw the Rockies for the first time, looming up out of the very floor of the plains, Nora's spirits began to rise with the topography of the land. She even unpinned her hat and stuck her head out of the window to get a better view, feeling the cinders from the engine sting her cheeks. The mountains, etched against the bluest sky Nora had ever seen, fairly took her breath away. Drawing her head back in, Nora smoothed her hair, brown and lustrous, and piled high on top of her head. She took a mirror from her bag and, with some surprise, found her face dotted with the soot from the cinders. She put the mirror back and, rising, held a moment to her seat to steady herself from the swaying of the train before making her way to the washroom.