[Vol54 | February 1967 | Page 112 | General Feature | Editorial: | Singing Mothers]
[Editorial: Singing Mothers]

EDITORIAL Volume 54 February 1967 Number 2 Wi Belle S. Spafford, President HE Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor HE Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda P. Young, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart trene C. Lloyd Edith S. Elliott Hazel S. Love Florence J. Madsen Fawn H. Sharp Leone G. Layton Celestia J. Taylor Blanche B. Stoddard Anne R. Gledhill Evon W. Peterson Belva B. Ashton Aleine M. Young Zola J. McGhie Josie B. Bay Oa J. Cannon Alberta H. Christensen _—_Lila B. Walch Mildred B. Eyring Lenore C. Gundersen Edith P. Backman Marjorie C. Pingree Winniefred S. Manwaring Darlene C. Dedekind Elna P. Haymond Cleone R. Eccles Mary R. Young Edythe K. Watson Mary V. Cameron Ellen N. Barnes Afton W. Hunt Kathryn S. Gilbert Elsa T. Peterson Verda F. Burton Fanny S. Kienitz Myrtle R. Olson Elizabeth B. Winters Alice C. Smith Jennie R. Scott Lucile P. Peterson Alice L. Wilkinson Elaine B. Curtis Irene W. Buehner Zelma R. West 112 The Lord... Set my feet upon a rock... And established my goings. And he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God (Psalms 40:2-3). @ The voices of the Singing Mothers, through the ages, have marked with beauty and with notes of lasting illumination, the dearly beloved phases of a woman's life. A young babe, new to the sounds of earth yet close to the anthems of heaven, hears her mother's voice in singing, and the music becomes the first rhythmic experience of her life journey. Growing into womanhood in the shelter of the home, again she hears her mother singing as she works about the house carrying joy and gratitude and love from room to room. Returning from school, through the open door, the young girl hears the melody that her mother sings, as she sits in afternoon sunlight and stitches and mends the apparel of her children. Thus, with a heritage of music in her heart, the young woman eventually turns toward dreams of her own home; and all that she has learned of faith and family unity, expressed in singing, becomes her own melody of life. Women have sung in sorrow and in loneliness. Their songs have mingled the trials of a present time with their hopes for a happier future. Women have sung to comfort themselves and to reach for the riches of the spirit. They have sung to impart strength and cour- age to those in need of consolation. They have sung in cottages, in tents, and in cabins. They have established singing in the land. Their spiritual yearnings, especially, have been strengthened by music, and have been lifted to a contemplation of those thoughts and those majestic harmonies which unite the earth with heaven. "lf thou art merry, praise the Lord with singing, with music... And with a prayer of praise and thanksgiving. If thou art sorrowful, — call on the Lord thy God with supplication, that your souls may be joyful... (D&C 136:28, 29). It was a mother who was commanded by the Lord, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, ''to make a selection of sacred hymns, as it shall be given thee, which is pleasing unto me, to be had in my church. For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads' (D&C 25:11-12). From the singing of mothers in their homes; from the singing of women together as neighbors; from music inherent in their hearts, came the official organization of Singing Mothers throughout the Church. The Singing Mothers inspire and encourage each other in the discovery and development of their talents. The feeling for music and its interpretation is ''caught''; it flows from one sister to another, and each performance becomes a unity of spiritual aspiration. And accomplishment. From singing in the wards, Singing Mother choruses move into everwidening circles of influence and devoted service in the name of music, and in praise of the gospel heritage. In concerts they offer the hymns and the anthems long revered as spiritual treasures, as well as the inspired compositions of the restoration. Many who otherwise might not hear the grandeur of the great chords of music, are offered a world of harmony by the Singing Mothers. In the congregations of the saints, at Relief Society General Conference and at the General Conferences of the Church, the Singing Mothers, in combined choruses, add the beauty and spiritual strength of their singing. Music is a missionary, and the Singing Mothers in television and radio presentations, on their international tour, through their appearances at the meetings of the American Mothers—their singing at the World's Fair—wherever they go, they carry the message of the gospel and become bearers of ''the singing and the sounds of salvation."' The Singing Mothers sing of ''the mountains high.'' They sing in many nations and on the islands of the sea. They rejoice as Relief Society women, offering praises to the. Heavenly Father.... ''Come, Ye. Blessed of My Father'... 'Go Ye Forth With My Word." —V. P. C.