[Vol54 | February 1967 | Page 144 | Lesson | Homemaking Project Thrift Celestia | J. Taylor]
HOMEMAKING MEETING Development Through Homemaking Education Celestia J. Taylor Project Thrift Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, May 1967 Southern Hemisphere: October 1967 Objective: To show that through careful planning and knowledgeable buying, a family can be clothed attractively within a limited budget. NOTE The material and principles in this discussion may need to be adapted to the culture and way of life in different areas of the world without, however, in any way changing the objective of the discussion. INTRODUCTION Among the problems of family home management, one of the most vital concerns is that of providing clothing for its members. Clothing a family attractively doesn't just happen. It requires the use of all the different resources available to the homemaker—time and energy, money, attitudes, knowledge, and skills. If she plans carefully and utilizes these resources wisely, her efforts 144 will pay dividends in the knowledge that her family is clothed attractively and within the budget. A suggested procedure which would help her to accomplish her goal should include the following: (1) She will determine the clothing needs of her family; (2) she will analyze her budget and determine how best to spend the clothing dollar; (3) she will learn to be a skillful and intelligent shopper. THE CLOTHING DOLLAR Economy in regard to clothing cannot be judged solely in terms of the purchase price. The total expenditure should include, in addition to the initial cost, the amounts paid for upkeep—cleaning, repairing, and remodeling— and any replacements and unforeseen emergency additions. The specific requirements for all purchases should be determined in advance. In buying a coat, for example, decisions should be made as to the type needed, the color, and the maximum amount which can be spent. Consideration should be given to the expected length of service of the article. It is poor economy to buy the least costly item if it will not hold up under the required usage. Items that will not be out of fashion in a short time should be chosen. Clothing which is conservative in style and color is less apt to become "dated" than that which is "high-fashioned" or seasonal. If clothing is to be worn for more than one season it needs to be of good quality; both fabric and construction are important. By stretching the life of garments the costs can be cut. A winter coat that is worn for three years is an economical buy even though it costs more than one which will last only one year. A substantial saving in clothing costs can be realized by 'making clothes at home instead of buying them. Some of the advantages derived from home sewing in addition to the saving of money are the satisfaction of a good fit; the choice of materials; allowance for ample growth of the wearer; and the enjoyment and accomplishment of creative activity. Remodeling clothes is a significant thirft practice if the article to be remodeled is in sufficiently good condition. The skill involved could well be taught in Relief Society homemaking meetings.: THE SHOPPING SKILLS Modern merchandising techniques are designed to interest Lesson Department the buyer; and unless she knows what she wants and what to look for in buying it, she will be completely lost and end up impulsively buying beyond her budget. Some of the things which a shopper should know and do are the following: 1. She should know the best time to buy various articles of clothing. Most stores will follow a _ fairly standard schedule for their promotion sales. 2. She should compare prices by using newspapers, magazines, and advertisements. 3. She should have some knowledge of fabrics and understand the labels on clothing and materials. In the United States the Fiber Identification Act requires the identification and percentages of fibers in yard goods and ready-made clothing. In addition, a tag or label should give instructions on how to care for the garment— whether to dry-clean, wash by_ hand, or by machine, and the temperature recommended for ironing or pressing. Dye processes and qualities such as crease-resistant, wash-and-wear, waterrepellent, and shrinkage should be listed. 4. She should be able to recognize well-constructed garments. She should examine the finishing and width of seams; the buttonholes, slide fasteners, and other openings; and the hems. She should notice the fit, the cut, and the fashion of the garment. She should look for sturdy construction and reinforced areas in garments intended for rough usage. 5. She should know that stores which operate on a cash basis tend to have lower prices. If she uses credit, she should shop for the credit as carefully as she shops for the cash. 6. She will buy only things which will serve the purpose for which they are intended. Some shoppers buy clothing by impulse or on sale, only to find later that it doesn't harmonize with the rest of the wardrobe. 7. She should be aware that distances traveled and time and energy spent add to the cost of the purchase. 

145 February 1967

 To Do and Discuss A. Analyze your present wardrobe and estimate approximately what it would cost to replenish your needs. Is this more or less than your clothing budget will allow? Would you purchase the needed garments or would you make them? What reasons influence your decision? B. Recall recent purchases you have made — one you consider a good buy and one a poor purchase — and discuss the following questions in regard to each: 1. Why did you want the particular item? 2. Was it an impulse purchase or was it planned in advance? 3. What information did you have concerning the garment-—fabric, fiber content, instructions, etc.? 4. How did you feel in the garment? Did it call forth any remarks or compliments? 5. What are your reasons for considering one a good buy and the other a poor one? CONCLUSION A homemaker can feel justly proud when the members of her family are attractively and appropriately dressed and when they have not exceeded the allotted budget in achieving this goal. She will feel rewarded for the time, energy, and effort it has taken in planning and putting into practice the required knowledge and skills. Ecomony in regard to clothing cannot be judged solely in terms of the purchase price. The total expenditure should include, in addition to the initial cost, the amounts paid for upkeep—cleaning, repairing, and remodeling— and any replacements and unforeseen emergency additions.