[Vol54 | February 1967 | Page 116 | Fiction | Valentines Are Important | Frances C. Yost]
Valentines. Are Important I Frances C. Yost m Susan McMaughan wiped the frost from the window so that she could watch her five little schoolers board the bus that went past their house. They were beautiful children, and they were dressed nicely, thanks to the fact that she could sew well, and make over. "What are you watching, Mommie?" Little Laurie asked. "Mother's watching your big brothers and sisters, to see that they get on the bus safely." "Will you watch me next year to see if I get on the bus all right?" "T surely will, Mark." "Will you watch us when we go to school, Mommie?" "Yes, Betty and little Laurie, Mommie will watch you every morning." Susan gathered her three little pre-schoolers in her arms and hugged them close. Keeping her eight children warm and fed and with something to wear was a problem that occupied every moment of her time during the day, and most of her thinking time through the night. Susan told herself that it wouldn't be too long before Jim would write and say he had found work. Then he would enclose a check or some greenbacks. Until then she would just have to hold out. The three little children started playing with blocks, and Susan went to the kitchen and took stock of her meager supplies. There was enough sugar for a couple of weeks, and flour to make two or three nice batches of bread. The lone cow was giving milk enough for all, and cream for their cereal, and enough to make a little butter. There was still bottled fruit and a few vegetables in the cellar. Yes, with good planning, she would hold out until Jim could get work. She would keep hoping and praying. She wasn't alone with her brood of eight darling children. God was in his heaven, and was watching and caring for them. Susan cleaned and set to soak the last of the dry beans. Hot chili would make a nourishing supper for all, and perhaps there would be enough for lunch tomorrow for her and the little ones. So it was that Susan McMaughan worked and prayed day after day, hardly taking time to look at the calendar. It was while they were all around the table eating supper that evening that Susan noticed the older children were rather quiet. She hoped things had gone well for them at school. She didn't want anyone to suffer because they were poor. She wanted her children to feel adjusted and have friends... Even though it meant making over and washing clothes out at night. But something was amiss tonight. After the little children were in bed, perhaps she could get them to confide in her. Then, Valentines Are Important perhaps, she could help them with whatever was bothering them. While Martha and Cloe washed the supper dishes, Tom and Victor brought in the coal and kindling. When these tasks were finished, there would follow a session of getting lessons on the kitchen table. Then Susan would help those who needed a bit of assistance with English, arithmetic, history, or geography. In the north bedroom, away from the heater, Susan was tucking the little ones in bed. "Your Daddy would be proud, the way you can say your prayers all alone. Now jump into bed. Goodnight little Mark and Connie, Betty and Laurie. Keep under the covers, because it's dreadfully cold tonight." Susan tucked each one in snugly. She was proud of the comforters on the beds. She had taken the wornout wool blankets and covered them with pretty outing flannel. All the children had helped to tie them. Yes, her children were warm and cozy in their beds, and she was thankful for that. Susan had a song on her lips as she left the bedroom of the little ones, and walked towards the kitchen. Then she heard Tom's voice. Tom was the oldest, and he was more of a man than a boy, even though he was thirteen and in the seventh grade. What was he saying? "Well, don't tell Mother. She can't do anything about it, and it would only make her feel badly." "IT just can't face my friends on Valentine's Day without a single valentine for anyone." 

117 February 1967

 "Well, for goodness sake, Martha! Valentines aren't that important." This from Victor. Martha stifled a little moan, and Tom, always the benefactor came to her defense. "Of course valentines are important. Victor didn't mean it that way. He was just trying to point out that there are lots of things more important, and we'll have to be brave. Now I have thought this whole thing out, and 'decided the best way to do it is for us all to come home when the valentine party starts in each room. That way we won't be embarrassed getting valentines from our friends, and not having any to give. All in favor?" Listening, Susan McMaughan could see a future lawyer or school principal in her Tom. He was a born leader. She felt it best not to barge in the room just now. She listened, and as she listened, her heart ached. Why hadn't they shared their problems with her? Yet, as Tom had pointed out, there wasn't anything she could do about it. But perhaps there was. She hadn't bothered the Lord about anything but warmth and food and health for her family. Valentines were important, too. What were the children saying? "I guessthat is all right for us. We're big. But little Connie is only in the first grade. Valentines are so important when you're little." Cloe's voice had a flutter in it, which divulged the fact that valentines were still important at her age, also. "Well, we'll just have to bring Connie home with us, and make the best of it." That was Tom's 118 manly voice again. "(Maybe we could make valentines." Martha's voice grabbed onto a last ray of hope. "A person could make one for the teacher, I suppose, but you can't make thirty-three for everyone in the class. And you have to have red paper and lace and stuff to make valentines out of and...." "I guess you're right, Tom." Martha's voice betrayed the fact that she wasn't having too much success at being brave. "So we all come home. I guess there isn't anything else to do. But I sure hate to miss the party." Victor shrugged his shoulders, not considering whether the children would be allowed to leave school. "IT don't know about the rest of you, but I have studies to do." Tom's voice terminated the subject. Susan, listening just outside the door, was proud of her four older children. They studied hard and their report cards registered good grades. Tue next morning, after the children left for school, Susan started cleaning out drawers. There was a chance she could find last year's valentines. Perhaps with a little bleach she could erase names, and they could be re-used. She did find some, but they had been enjoyed until the corners were frayed. They were unfit to pass along. Susan toyed with the idea of taking Martha's suggestion and making some. But Tom was so right. There was nothing from which to make valentines. What few coins Susan had, were now all used for stamps and yeast cakes. Susan watched for the mailman. If Jim sent a check or even a dollar bill, she would buy valentines. When the mailman passed by the house without stopping, she went to the door and called out to him. "Any mail today?" "No, Mrs. McMaughan. Not a single thing. I'm sorry." The afternoon of the thirteenth of February, Susan asked a neighbor if she would watch Mark, Beth, and little Laurie while she slipped down town. It was a hard decision to make, but Susan was ready to swallow her pride and ask for credit at the store. She would buy valentines enough for five schoolers. Susan McMaughan went into the variety store. It was fun to look around and see the lovely things on display. She hadn't allowed herself the luxury of looking in the stores since Jim was out of work. She walked over to where the valentines usually were. The counter was bare. "Where are your valentines?" Valentines Are Important "Sold the last of them last night, Madam." "Oh, no!" "Sorry. Had a run on them. The kids are buying more these days." Susan sighed. Well, being out of stock saved her the embarrassment of asking for credit to buy them. Perhaps they would have turned her down anyway. She walked siowly from the store. Her legs were too tired to navigate. Or was it her very soul that was tired? That evening the children were extra cheerful, polite, helpful, and downright good. Susan was extra cheerful herself. It was a Pollyanna game they all seemed to be playing. Yet it seemed better than to sit down in the middle of the room and cry for lack of valentines. It was while Susan lay awake in her bed that night that she decided what she would do. She would make the prettiest valentine cake! Then, when the children came home from school, they would have a family party. She would cut the cake and serve hot chocolate with it. Susan arose early, long before the February sun had peeked over the horizon. She stirred up batter for a velvet white cake. Instead of baking it in the two square layers, or the two round pans, she poured the batter into one square pan and one round pan. When the cakes were baked and cooled, she cut the round cake in half. She placed the square cake at an angle on her largest and prettiest plate to form the point of the heart. The two round halves she placed 

119 February 1967

 at the top of the diamond square to form the round parts of the heart. It was a perfect valentine. Susan iced the three parts together. Then, with fluffy white icing, she covered the whole big heart. In: the center she wrote eight names: Tom, Victor, Martha, Cloe, Connie, Mark, Betty, and Laurie. With the decorator, she made little rosebuds, hearts, and cupids. Then she edged the entire valentine with lace icing. The cake was beautiful! Susan placed the cake high on the top of the cupboard out of sight. Then she sighed. The cake wouldn't take the place of valentines for friends, but she had done the best she could, and her heart felt better. The children would know that she cared. The sun came up over the eastern mountains. It was going to be a beautiful day, clear and bright and warm for February, a perfect Valentine Day... Well almost. It was time to awaken the children. What was that? A knock on the door at this hour? Susan went to the door and opened it. There stood the mailman smiling like a valentine himself. Then he seemed to be embarrassed a little. "Good morning, Mrs. McMaughan. This is a little out of order. I usually pass your house about ten-thirty. But when we sorted the mail this morning, there was this big package for your family. Since it is labeled valentines, I thought you might like it before school begins. So I dropped by on my way home for breakfast." Susan couldn't have appreciated this early call more if it had been St. Valentine himself. "Thank you. Thank you very much." Susan was all thumbs as she tore open the package. Out fell two large cellophane packets bulging with valentines. "Children! Children! And see!". There was a fine variety of valentines, even clever ones for the teachers. It was a hurry-up, but joyous morning. There were so many names of friends to write in so little time. Susan couldn't remember when they had all been so happy. After they were gone to school, Susan sat back in her chair for a bit of rest. Jim wasn't a whirlwind of a provider, but he was a thoughtful man. She would use the last postage stamp to write him a valentine love letter, and let him know how happy he had made his little children. Come KEEPING SUMMER Enola Chamberlin When grapes were ripe, and purple plums, And warm winds swayed the grain and grass, I peeled and pitted, cooked and sealed The summer up in glass. And now with snow to claim the fields And cold wind barking at the door, I break the seals and summer lives In scent and taste once more.