[Vol54 | February 1967 | Page 84 | Special Feature | Compassionate Service in Relief Society | Marion G. Romney]
Compassionate Service in Relief Society Marion G. Romney @ It is an honor, my sisters, to be invited to address you this morning. When Sister Spafford invited me to come here I asked her to give me a memorandum suggesting matters on which I might speak. In response to this request, I received a letter from Sister Sharp who said that I might speak (1) on compassionate services of Relief Society, and (2) on services we are ready to perform as directed by the General Church Welfare Committee. I shall first direct my remarks to the second suggestion. For the past thirty years Relief Society has been, and still is, the bishop's chief auxiliary aide in implementing the Church Welfare Program. Among other things, the ward Relief Society president has been, and _ still should be, called upon to study, analyze, and report to her bishop conceming circumstances of the needy, to prepare orders on bishops' storehouses and to assist in preparing forecasts for future needs. Members of Relief Society have been, and still should be, willing to work at the call of the bishop on sewing, canning, and other welfare production projects. For many years Relief Society was given a major assignment in the field of employment, particularly with respect to women and girls. While under the present welfare organization procedures, the Relief Society is not asked to participate in employment finding and placement in industry, there is a service with respect to domestic employment in the homes of ward members which
Compassionate Service In Relief Society the Relief Society is admirably positioned to render. In their visits, Relief Society teachers have opportunity tactfully and wisely to assess conditions in the home. For this, they ought, by proper training, to qualify themselves for and conscientiously do. Following their visits, they should promptly report to their ward Relief Society presidents all the circumstances which, in their judgment, call for welfare or Relief Society compassionate service, including needed female domestic help and employment. Occasionally, there are emergencies which justify immediate action by the visiting teachers themselves at times, and, at other times, by the ward Relief Society president. In such emergencies, I do not think we should be so bound by procedural rules that we would let the patient die for want of help we can render while we hunt for the bishop. I remember a story about a young child who was starting school. At lunch she tipped over a glass of milk. The teacher being somewhat nettled said, 'What would your mother do if she were here?" The child replied, '"She'd get a cloth and mop it up; she wouldn't stand there doing nothing." In all cases, however, the fact should be reported by the Relief Society president to the bishop not later than the next ward Welfare Committee meeting which is scheduled to be held each week at the beginning of the ward Priesthood executive committee meeting. — In addition to these and kindred services, which Relief Society should stand ready to perform, there are other compassionate services which may, at times, be directed by the bishop and at other times be rendered pursuant to Relief Society's general commission. For example: Supplying or rendering domestic help in time of illness, bereavement, or other emergencies; occasionally the furnishing of a meal to the aged or otherwise homebound; calling on or, perhaps, telephoning the lonely in their homes and in hospitals; or writing letters for the incapacitated. A list of such benevolent services might be endlessly extended and still not include all areas of welfare and Relief Society compassionate service. Since Relief Society, as instructed by the Prophet Joseph Smith, carries on its work under the direction of the Priesthood, it might be well here to note that very early in this dispensation, the Lord put the major responsibility of caring for the poor upon the Church, upon the bishop, as the administrative agent of the Church; and since Relief Society is the chief aide to the bishop, I will take a minute to give you the words of the Lord with respect to this responsibility to care for the poor. As early as January 2, 1831, and that was within nine months of the organization of the Church, the Lord said in a great revelation:... For your salvation I give unto you a commandment, for I have heard your prayers, and the poor have complained before me, and the rich have I made, and all flesh is mine, and I am no respecter of persons. Wherefore, hear my voice and follow me...... Let every man esteem his brother as himself, and practice virtue and holiness before me. 

85 February 1967

 And again I say unto you, let every man esteem his brother as himself. (D&C 38:16, 22, 24-25). And then, in a very impressive parable, the Lord pointed out what he meant by the phrase esteeming one's brother as himself. He said: For what man among you having twelve sons, and is no respecter of them, and they serve him obediently, and he saith unto the one: Be thou clothed in robes and sit thou here; and to the other: Be thou clothed in rags and sit thou there—and looketh upon his sons and saith I am just? Behold, this I have given unto you as a parable, and it is even as I am. I say unto you, be one; and if ye are not one ye are not mine (D&C 38: 26-27). Then he gave the Church instructions as to what to do about it. He said: And now, I give unto the church in these parts a commandment, that certain men among them shall be appointed... And they shall look toe the poor and the needy, and administer to their relief that they shall not suffer... (D&C 38:384-35). Five weeks later, in the revelation referred to in the revelation itself as the law of the Church, the Lord said: If thou lovest me thou shalt serve me and keep my commandments. And behold, thou wilt remember the poor.... And inasmuch as ye impart of your substance unto the poor, ye will do it unto me; and they shall be laid before the bishop of my church and his counselors... (D&C 42:29-31). And then, a little later in the same month, the Lord said again: Behold, I say unto you, that ye must visit the poor and the needy and administer to their relief... (D&C 44:6). 86 Now all these revelations came in January and February, 1831, but the revelation which moves me most on this question is the one given to the Prophet Joseph Smith in June of that year. In this revelation, the Lord directed twenty-eight of the elders to travel, two by two, from Kirtland to Jackson County, Missouri. They were to go by different routes, preaching the gospel as they went. You will recall that they were very destitute in those days; and they would travel— walk part of the way—through a primitive country. Joseph Smith and his immediate companions "journeyed by wagon and stage and. Occasionally by canal boat, to Cincinnati, Ohio," then "to Louisville, Kentucky," and "St. Louis by steamer." "From this city on the Mississippi, the Prophet walked across the entire state of Missouri, to Independence, Jackson County, a distance of nearly 300 miles....? (CANNON, GEORGE Q., Life of Joseph Smith the Prophet, 1958 Edition, page 117). Now I recall these facts to your attention that you may understand the background against which the Lord said to these men as they started:.. Temember in all things the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted, for he that doeth not these things, the same is not my disciple (D&C 52:40). This statement, given under such conditions, not only impressed upon the brethren the great importance of taking care of the poor, but it seems, from what the Prophet later said con- Compassionate Service In Relief Society cerning the sisters' benevolent services, to have had a telling effect on them also. Pursuant to these revelations, the primary obligation to care for the poor of the Church has been, and still is, the bishop's. Since 1842, however, when the Prophet Joseph organized the Relief Society, the sisters have been called upon to help. In search of the correct concept of Relief Society's responsibility in Church welfare and compassionate services, I have reviewed the Prophet Joseph Smith's comments concerning, and his remarks to, the Relief Society in its infancy. His words graphically portray his views on these matters which I think should continue to be your guide. I think there is no man, save the Redeemer himself, who was greater or lived closer to the Lord than the Prophet. Now I'm going to quote considerably from the Prophet. I hope you'll think hard and get the point of view of the Prophet about your organization. Under date of February 17, 1842, the Prophet wrote in his journal: I assisted in commencing the organization of "The Female Relief Society of Nauvoo." A week later, the following Thursday, he made this entry in his journal: I attended, by request the Female Relief Society, whose object is the relief of the poor, the destitute, the widow and the orphan, and for the exercise of all benevolent purposes. Now "benevolent" is defined in my dictionary as 'disposed to promote the prosperity and happiness of others; kind; charitable." To go on with the Prophet's entry: There was a very numerous attendance... Of some of our most intelligent, humane, philanthropic and respectable ladies; and we are well assured from a knowledge of those pure principles of benevolence that flow spontaneously from their humane and philanthropic bosoms, that with the resources they will have at command, they will fly to the relief of the stranger; they will pour oil and wine to the wounded heart of the distressed; they will dry up the tears of the orphan and make the widow's heart to rejoice (DHC. IV, pp. 552, 567). Now, here in these tremendous statements of the Prophet, we have some very specific areas in which Relief Society may serve without always awaiting the bishop's special call. And then the Prophet continues: Our women have always been signalized for their acts of benevolence and kindness; but the cruel usage that they received from the barbarians of Missouri, has hitherto prevented their extending the hand of charity in a conspicuous manner; yet in the midst of their persecution, when the bread has been torn from their helpless offspring by their cruel oppressors, they have always been ready to open their doors to the weary traveler, to divide their scant pittance with the hungry, and from their robbed and impoverished wardrobes, to divide with the more needy and destitute; and now that they are living upon a more genial soil, and among a Jess barbarous people, and possess facilities that they have not heretofore enjoyed, we feel convinced that with their concentrated efforts, the. Condition of the suffering poor, of the stranger and the fatherless will be ameliorated (DHC. IV, pp. 567-568). Speaking to the Relief Society again on Thursday, the 28th of April of that same year (that was five weeks after its organization), the Prophet in his remarks 

87 February 1967

 to them, as reported by Eliza R. Snow, said: This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom! If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates.... If this Society listens to the counsel of the Almighty, through the heads of the Church, they shall have power to command queens in their midst (DHTC IV, p. 605). "You will receive instructions" —and this is still from the Prophet: You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established, through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide and direct the affairs of the Church in this last dispensation; and I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth; this is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads.... (DHC IV, p. 607). And then he had something to say about laboring close to home, while your knowledge could extend to the whole world. I thought of Sister Spafford over there in the East, in Asia, when I read this again. Let your labors be mostly confined to those around you, in the circle of your Own acquaintance, as far as knowledge is concerned, it may extend to all the world; but your administering should be confined to the circle of your immediate acquaintance, and more especially to the members of the Relief Society (DHC IV, p. 607). 88 I thought Sister Spafford was on course this morning when she said what she did about getting mixed up in partnership with other worldly organizations. The minutes of the Relief Society organization for June 9, 1842, quote the Prophet as saying this: The best measure or principle to bring the poor to repentance is to administer to their wants. The Ladies' Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls (DHC V, pp. 24-25). Of course, there is no other organization on the earth, women's or any other kind, that has a constitution like that from the Prophet of the living God. Now the records give us the setting and nature and reveal the importance of the Relief So- "ciety's objective, which, in the words of the Prophet Joseph, "is the relief of the poor, the destitute, the widow, and the orphan, for the exercise of all benevolent. Purposes." Through the years Church procedures have varied. Since Relief Society was organized, however, it has had a part in every phase, and the sisters have always participated. You have never faltered, and you have every reason to be proud of your record. It is my conviction and faith that you will not falter now nor in the future, and I believe that in the days ahead you will have an opportunity to render even greater service than you have ever been called upon to render heretofore. In addition to responding to the call of the bishop for assistance in Church welfare, and without encroaching upon his Compassionate Service In Relief Society prerogatives, members of the Relief Society should be ever alert to acts of benevolence on a neighbor-to-neighbor basis. Many are the poor, the destitute, the widows, the orphans, and the strangers whose tears are to be dried and whose hearts are to be made to rejoice by your flying to their relief and pouring into their distressed souls the healing balm of divine charity and benevolence. Here are some quotations from a communication recently received by a friend of mine which deliver, I think, a real message on this theme:... Although LDS people are fine citizens (this is a non-member writing to a good member of the Church) and have created a society in which everyone in Utah enjoys living, they do not give the impression of being friendly neighbors to newcomers. In the four moves I have made in Utah, I have never been called on by close neighbors who are LDS.... I had lunch with a businessman who had just moved here from Denver.... He thought he was going to like it here, but his wife is very lonely. They moved into a southeast residential neighborhood, apparently completely LDS, and not one neighbor has come to call on her. I am sure that newcomers would learn to appreciate the basic tolerance and friendship of the LDS people much more readily if it were active LDS policy to welcome newcomers— regardless of religion—not as proselyters, but as neighbors who live together in harmony.... That we render our service in the proper spirit is of first importance. There is a lying and deceptive spirit abroad in the world today that would persuade us that we can discharge our divinely imposed obligations in these matters by turning them over to the welfare workers of the "'welfare state" or to "socialism." But this we cannot do. In these systems, neither the giver nor the receiver enjoys the spirit of the Lord. Acts of benevolence must be done in the spirit of that charity which is the "pure love of Christ," if they are to meet the standards of Relief Society. Mormon says that if one... Offereth a gift, or prayeth unto God, except he shall do it with real intent it profiteth him nothing. For behold, it is not counted unto him for righteousness. For behold, if a man being evil giveth a gift, he doeth it grudgingly; wherefore it is counted unto him the same as if he had retained the gift; wherefore he is counted evil before God (Moroni 7:6-8). The Prophet's remarks to the Relief Society, on March 30, 1842, were reported as follows. Listen, he's talking to Relief Society here:... The Saints should be a select people, separate from all the evils of the world—choice, virtuous, and holy, The Lord (he said) was going to make of the Church of Jesus Christ a kingdom of Priests, a holy people, a chosen generation, as in Enoch's day... (DHT IV, page 570). The fact that the Prophet made these remarks to the Relief Society sisters persuades me that he expected them, in carrying out their "benevolent purposes," to be, even as the gospel is in its field, "... A light to the world" (D&C 45:9). I challenge you, my beloved sisters, therefore, in the words of the scripture... Arise and shine forth, that thy light may be a standard for the nations... (D&C 115:5). In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.