Mrs. Stringham emphasized the importance of unity and cooperation among the members and officers of the Relief Society, urging them to work together harmoniously for the common good. She also highlighted the significance of the Relief Society's mission in providing relief and support to those in need, and encouraged all members to continue their efforts in serving their communities with love and dedication.

The conference sessions included various reports and addresses from members of the General Board and other leaders, covering topics such as welfare work, education, and spiritual development. These presentations aimed to inspire and guide the Relief Society members in their ongoing efforts to uplift and support their communities.

Overall, the conference was a successful gathering, fostering a spirit of unity and commitment among the Relief Society members and reinforcing their dedication to the principles and goals of the organization.

Stake reports were made as follows: Sevier stake, by Mrs. Lily B. Gledhill; Wasatch stake, by Mrs. Johannah Jensen; Teton stake, by Mrs. H. S. Stevens; and the Hawaiian mission by Mrs. Emma Cole. In these reports, the presidents of stakes spoke of the helpful visits of the General Board, of the usefulness of the Relief Society Magazine, and of the great improvement that is shown in the various ward organizations, through the establishment of guide or lesson work. Mrs. Cole reported that there are thirty-one organizations of the Relief Society in Hawaii, with a membership of 900. The lessons as outlined in the Magazine are not strictly followed, as they are not altogether adapted to the Hawaiian sisters. Those studies which are of a spiritual nature are especially liked, and are therefore emphasized. The speaker reported that the native sisters are very liberal and sympathetic, and therefore make excellent Relief Society workers, taking special pains to care for all who are sick and in need. During the last year, the Honolulu organization raised from $900 to $1,000 for the purpose of building a Relief Society Hall. This was done by donations, and by giving a great feast in the Royal Park, in Honolulu, each member furnishing her share of refreshments. Kitchen gardening has been taken up in earnest by the Hawaiians, and the results have been very gratifying. A summary of Relief Society activities was given by Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. It was reported that fifty-two stakes had been visited by the General Board during the months of May, June, and July, and that the remainder of the stakes — all close in — will be visited in November. The societies have never been in a better condition, nor the officers more keenly alive to their duties. Intense interest has marked all the officers' meetings, which now form the most important part of the conventions. All the stakes last year sent in splendidly compiled stake reports, and the annual report of the General Secretary was more complete than it had been for several years. Five hundred and forty out of the seven hundred and seventy-six wards sent in ward reports for reference in the office. These ward reports, because of the special information they contain, are a source of real joy to the General Board, and have brought the wards and the Board more closely together than ever before. Mrs. Lyman pointed out that the watchword of the Relief Society is "Charity" in its highest and most practical sense, based upon the inter-dependence of mankind. For the year of 1914, the hundred Society Relief distributed and forty wards $48,482.12 to their poor. Out of the five hundred and forty wards who reported, it was found that there had been 32,979 special visits to the sick, 4,172 families helped, 1,490 bodies prepared for burial, and 6,753 days spent in temple work. Many instances were related which illustrated the practical forms of love and charity exercised during the year, by the Society. Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune gave a report of the Genealogical Excursion to California, stating that the First Presidency of the Church, the Presiding Bishop, Apostle Heber J. Grant, and about two hundred and sixty-five other delegates and members of the Utah Genealogical Society with President Emmeline B. Wells, eight members of the General Board — Mrs. Rebecca C. Nibley, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas, Miss Sarah McLelland and Miss Edna Mary Davis — attended the Genealogical Convention, which was the first of its kind ever held in the world. The Convention was a success, and is but the beginning of others to be held later in the interest of Genealogy. The name adopted for the bronze medal by the Commissioners of the Exposition. Mrs. McCune reported that the Utah party held a one-day's convention of Genealogy, independent of the National organization, with many visitors of note in attendance, and that the Relief Society, as well as the Genealogical Society, was presented with a beautiful bronze medal by the Commissioners of the World's Fair. Mrs. McCune referred to Genealogical Sunday, and hoped the Relief Society would always be well represented on that day; she also stated that the proceedings of the Genealogical Convention in California, would be printed in the October number of the Utah Genealogical Magazine, and that the proceedings of the Utah Genealogical Convention in San Francisco would appear in the January, 1916, issue of the same magazine. At the Friday afternoon session, addresses were given by Counselor Clarissa S. Williams, President Louie B. Felt, of the Primary Association, Emma A. Empey, Sarah M. McLelland, and Dr. Romania B. Penrose, with closing remarks by President Emmeline B. Wells. Counselor Williams referred to the pleasant anticipations experienced by the General Board in looking forward to the semiannual meetings and the stake conferences of the Relief Society; contact in these gatherings, is a mutual joy, is a benefit to all concerned, and this association creates an inspiration for future effort. Mrs. Williams expressed the appreciation of the General Board for the great detail work done by the ward Relief Society workers who visit the sick, comfort those who are in need, and minister to those who are in trouble; and, indeed, for all the manifold labors connected with the duties of teachers, officers, and members of this great Society. People are often fearful of saying kind words to each other, and they wait to express love and encouragement to each other until it is too late. This should not be the case with Relief Society workers. We should help and encourage each other constantly, for life is hard enough at best. President Louie B. Felt felt very much honored to speak before the Relief Society, which is the mother of all the auxiliary organizations of the Church; she characterized the work of the Society as the noblest work in the world, and urged the officers and members to do whatever they were asked to do for its furtherance. Mrs. Felt expressed her joy in the pleasant association of the Relief Society and the Primary officers in visiting the stake conferences. Mrs. Emma A. Empey said she was grateful for her place, in the Relief Society and for the association with the members of the General Board, as well as all others in the organization. She briefly reported her recent visit to the Northwestern states, where the branches are all striving for constant growth and improvement. She referred to the Nurse School, and urged the members to support the same. Sarah M. McLelland spoke of the relief work done by the Relief Society in Canada, and told of a carload of warm clothing, which was sent by the Society to the suffering Belgians. She referred to the teachings of the Savior, showing that the faithful Relief Society sisters endeavor to follow the instructions laid down by Him. Mrs. Romania B. Penrose addressed the audience briefly, complimenting the members on the character of the work done by the various organizations during the last year. She referred to one stake that had put up one thousand quarts of fruit for the poor. The speaker felt that the Relief Society Magazine was an inspiration to all, and hoped the members would encourage and support the same. President Emmeline B. Wells made a few closing remarks, in which she expressed joy and thanksgiving for the feast of good things which had been enjoyed during the two sessions of the conference. She referred to the sad condition of the old world today, and prayed that peace would soon be established. She briefly reviewed the work of the Society, and in speaking of work done in the past, said she knew one Relief Society woman who had prepared one thousand bodies for burial. President Wells urged the members to keep up the spiritual side of the work, and to maintain the testimony meetings, as this phase of our work brings a peace and comfort than can come to us no other way. There were present at this session of the conference 1,270 people.

OFFICERS' MEETINGS.

Two officers' meetings were held on Saturday. The morning session was devoted to business, and the afternoon session was a testimony meeting. Roll call showed the following representation: Board members, 19; stakes represented, 67; 42 being represented by presidents and 25 by stake officers; 5 stakes not represented. Two missions were represented, the Hawaiian Mission, by Mrs. Cole; and the Northern States Mission, by Mrs. Mary Smith Ellsworth. There were 284 officers in attendance at the meetings. At the morning session, reports were given as follows: Membership, Counselor Clarissa S. Williams; Magazine, Mrs. Williams and Janette A. Hyde; Relief Society Books, Amy B. Lyman; Home Economics, Janette A. Hyde; Art, Alice Merrill Home; Nurse School, Phebe Y. Beatie; Relief Society History, Susa Young Gates. Counselor Williams spoke on the subject of membership. A member of the Relief Society once enrolled, is always a member unless she asks to have her name removed, or is voted out by a two-thirds majority of the members of the Society, for good and sufficient reasons. Mrs. Williams reported that the committee appointed to arrange for the publication and distribution of the Relief Society Bulletin, during the year of 1914, had been able to pay all expenses, and to close up the Bulletin account. She, therefore, moved a vote of thanks to the committee which was carried. Mrs. Williams reported that the Relief Society Magazine was nearing the close of its first year, and that everybody concerned had been gratified with the success attained. The subscription list has been larger than was expected. The Magazine has paid its own way, and has a surplus in the treasury, which will justify an increase in size for next year. This success, Mrs. Williams stated, was due largely to the loyal support of the stake presidents who had given their time and energy freely, to help establish an official organ for the Relief Society. Mrs. Williams moved that the General Board give a rising vote of thanks to the stake presidents for their untiring efforts in behalf of the Magazine. The motion was carried. The following resolution was introduced by Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott, and adopted by the assembly: "Whereas the Bulletin Committee worked hard, zealously, and unselfishly to make the Bulletin a success with the members of the Relief Society, and have so gloriously succeeded, both spiritually and financially: "Be it resolved that we, the officers and members of the Relief Society, in meeting assembled, tender our hearty appreciation and heartfelt thanks for the help we have received therefrom, and wish success and God's blessings to attend their future efforts." Mrs. Janette A. Hyde reported that the subscription business of the Relief Society Magazine would, in the future, be handled by agents, who would be paid ten per cent for their service. Mrs. Hyde urged the importance of sending in correct addresses, as many numbers had gone astray during the year, on account of incomplete addresses. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman explained the use of reports, and how to prepare them. Report blanks will be sent out in November, and Relief Society officers were urged to be prompt in returning the compiled reports to the General Secretary on or before January 15. She reported that new books for ward secretaries and treasurers have been arranged, and will be ready for distribution by the end of the year. A small book has also been arranged for the use of ward teachers. These books were all explained in detail. They will be sent out to all the stakes for ward distribution in November, in order that every ward in the Church may begin the work for the new year, according to the new plan. Mrs. Alice Merrill Home reported the Art Department. Architecture in England and America will be studied during the coming year. Home study was urged, and members were asked to study landscape, by making observations of real pictures in nature, the tender twilights, the verdure during the seasons, and the colorings of the skies and clouds. The handiwork and pictures of the Creator were declared to be subjects worthy of the time and study of the Relief Society. Home Economics was discussed by Mrs. Janette A. Hyde. A course of three years' study is being arranged by the General Board. The last lesson each month will be devoted exclusively to this subject during the coming year. Household problems will be viewed from a scientific standpoint, and in the second year demonstration work in the line of cooking and canning, etc., will be carried on. It is hoped to have this work under the supervision of the Agricultural College, in this and other states where Relief Societies exist. Julia P. M. Farnsworth spoke of the Relief Society Nurse School for Obstetrics and Nursing, which opened September 20, and which has made a fair beginning for a successful year. The need of more students was spoken of, and the stake officers were asked to send representatives to the school. Mrs. Williams added that this work is now under the direct supervision of the Relief Society. The instructors are paid for their services, and the General Board supervises all the work. The usefulness of neighborhood nursing and caring for the sick was emphasized, it being the aim of the Society to disseminate throughout all the Church instructions for caring for the sick. Mrs. Susa Young Gates, who has been appointed to write a history of the Relief Society, discussed this subject before the assembly. Mrs. Gates gave an outline of the proposed history, stating that the opening chapters will take up the positions women have held in the history of the world — both ancient and modern; how the dawn of woman's usefulness appeared when the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society. Brief mention was made of the topics to be discussed, which denoted a comprehensive history of the Society, including its specific activities. Stake and ward officers were urged to keep historical records for their own use, and the stakes were asked to send in a brief history to the historian. The speaker discussed a course of music for Relief Society choirs, stating that an outline will be made and may be obtained by any choirs who desire to make a study of the same. Counselor Julina L. Smith gave the closing remarks. She reported that she had received a letter from Mrs. Ida B. Smith who is at the head of the Relief Society work in Great Britain. The letter described the work of the Society members in that far off land. Aside from their regular work, the members had done a great deal along the lines of knitting and sewing for the soldiers and their families, and caring for those made destitute by reason of war. Mrs. Smith spoke feelingly of the necessity of properly regarding our sacred garments, and urged the mothers to teach their daughters by precept and example to be modest in their actions and in their manner of dress. President Wells made a brief talk giving a summary of the instructions, stating that the climax of the meeting was reached in the touching remarks of Counselor Smith. The closing session of the conference on Saturday afternoon was devoted to a testimony meeting. President Emmeline B. Wells opened the meeting with her own strong and abiding testimony, and was followed by many of the sisters who gave hopeful and inspiring addresses.

SPECIAL MEETINGS.

Genealogy. The Genealogical Department held four special meetings during the conference at which the following subjects were discussed: some stakes reported methods of preparing individual records and living family groups were taught. The work for the coming season was discussed. It was decided that the department should emphasize the following three points for next year: 1. Make an individual sheet record of every individual in the Society. 2. Secure members for Genealogical Society. 3. Every woman shall spend one day in the temple in her district or arrange for some one to do this for her. At the meeting on Saturday afternoon Mr. C. L. McFaul, the genial passenger agent of the Southern Pacific, was invited to address the convention. Mr. McFaul spoke briefly of the great pleasure he had experienced in conducting the Genealogical excursion to California, that in his twenty-one years of experience he had never conducted a party that was so considerate of each other, and so willing to adapt themselves to all conditions and circumstances. He felt that this was largely due to the unity and good fellowship of the members of the Society, and to the high ideals for which the Society stands. Mr. McFaul said he had come to feel a high respect for every member of the organization and also for the Genealogical Society of Utah. Mrs. Gates replied by giving Mr. McFaul the key to the mystery: each member of the party was deeply engaged in a great cause which they loved better than they loved selfish gratification. A rising vote of thanks was given spontaneously to Mr. McFaul for his unfailing courtesy and consideration. Other classes were held Tuesday and Wednesday afternoons.

ART.

On Tuesday, October 5, the Relief Society visited the University of Utah in a body. Their visit was arranged for by the art department of the Relief Society, in order that the members might have the opportunity to inspect the museum and buildings and visit the art gallery. President Kingsbury received the ladies most cordially in the girls' rest room, and gave them general information on the grounds and buildings. Professor Levi Edgar Young gave a lecture in the museum, outlining future plans of the University of Utah with regard to that department. Professor George M. Marshall gave a lecture in the physics building, on the subject of English architecture which was illustrated with colored slides. Miss Alice Merrill Home gave a lecture on the pictures in the art gallery. At 1:15 a delicious luncheon was served to the visitors by the University, under the personal direction of Dean Lucy M. Van Cott. The whole day was one of pleasure and profit, and will long be remembered by all of the two hundred and fifty women who were in attendance. On Monday afternoon a lecture was given by Mrs. Alice Merrill Home in the Relief Society parlors, the subject being "Art and Architecture of the California Exposition."

For a Safe and Sane Christmas and Withal a Merry One. By Fromade.

Why not abolish the practice of giving a multitude of Christmas presents, just as we have done away with Fourth of July fireworks? Why not destroy the dangerous bombs of Christmas present debts, banish the rockets of Christmas extravagance, and explode the frightful fire-crackers of Christmas indulgences? With the Yuletide fireworks abandoned, the celebration of Christmas will naturally tend to become one of spiritual jubilation rather than one of sordid gain. Consider the present Christmas celebration of the average person. Whether you take the case of a man or that of a woman, it is much the same. Early in December the shops put on their Christmas dress. They begin their display of Christmas scarfs, neckties, handkerchiefs, gloves, ribbons, laces, toys, books, dolls and nicnacs of every description. A man flounders about for days in the pushing, crushing mob which besets the counters of the gents' furnishings and the glove department. After much loss of temper he succeeds in purchasing for his father, his brothers and his men friends the conventional Christmas present. The presents are not so fine as he would like, but they are as fine as he can afford. For his mother and his sister he buys gloves and handkerchiefs, not so good as he would like, but again the question of the purse comes into evidence. His sweetheart is to have a fan, very pretty and costing more than he can rightly pay. The heart often plays havoc with a bank account. A woman hovers between the fancy work department and the jewelry counter. She leaves no corner of the shop unhaunted, for often a valuable suggestion comes from the most unexpected corner. By Christmas eve her purse is drained of the last farthing, her eyes are smarting from long and late hours of embroidering, and her fingers are sore from much needle pricking. She is happy, of course, in the lovely presents she has prepared, and still she will be so glad when it is all over — Christmas is such a strenuous time, you know! Now if the man or the woman be married, Christmas celebration by means of gifts is doubly hard. There are two families to buy presents for, there are two sets of friends to be remembered, all on the same salary which used to buy the presents for the family and friends of one person. "Oh, why does Jeanette send me a Christmas present? I never associate with her any more, and she is entirely out of our crowd," wails the bride, not out of stinginess, mind you, but from the depths of a distressed mind, weary with trying to make money stretch to the limit. "And I don't see how we can remember the Wiltons this year, dear. I have my insurance to meet after Christmas," comments the bridegroom. "But we must scrimp something out for them somehow. You know they would never get over talking about us if we didn't," argues the bride fiercely. "I wish there were no such time as Christmas!" There is Christmas spirit for you! If there are children in the family, Christmas becomes trebly difficult and expensive, unless the parents are very wise in their attitude toward the celebration of the day. Often, however, foolishly fond parents think the day is not well noticed unless the children are gorged and glutted to the content of their greedy little hearts. Grocery bills are left unpaid so Willie can have a fine big rocking horse with a real horse-hair tail. The dentist must wait for his money until after Christmas so that little Mabel can have a French doll that laughs and cries and says "Mama!" all this worry and scurry for a Merry Christmas. If you think the prevailing way of celebrating the day is bringing "Great joy, peace on earth and good will toward men" watch the face of the average Christmas shopper. The tired eyes, the pale cheeks, the slight frown between the brows — wondering what to buy and how to pay for it. And then the constant worry that the gifts may not be appreciated and the spiteful, ungrateful words which are spoken if the gifts are not up to expectations! Is the dread of Christmas already upon you? Is the worry of Christmas gifts clutching at your heart? Then formulate a safe and sane Christmas plan, and spend the merriest Christmas you have spent in years. There are many ways of doing such a thing — ways which take courage to begin, for the unconventional way is always hard. First, long before Christmas tell your friends of your plan to celebrate the day without presents. Then you will not suffer the embarrassment of receiving gifts which you do not in some way return. Next, spend the time you save from Christmas fretting, by enjoying the beauties of the season, by happy association with your family and friends. Take time to look up at the Christmas stars, twinkling with silvery crispness in the blue-black Christmas sky. When Christmas comes, see to it that there is no human being near you who is unhappy. Let the birthday of Christ dawn upon no wretched child, no starving mother, and no freezing father whose suffering you could relieve. Gather your family and friends around your fireside to recollect the story of the Blessed Babe. Gather them in gaily, content with the thought that your hand has done some Yuletide deed of love and charity. Let there be kindly words and music and dancing and simple dining. Ah! material trifles are swallowed up, the annual avalanche of pincushions, glove boxes and sachet bags is diverted, and you thrill with the joy of a Peaceful and Merry Christmas, the forerunner of a Prosperous and Happy New Year!

Relief Society Recognized by the U. S. Government Record.

We were agreeably surprised to open the late copy of the Reclamation Record, which is the organ of the Reclamation branch of the United States Department of Agriculture, published in Washington, D. C., under the supervision of Hon. Franklin K. Lane, Secretary of the Interior. We say we were delighted to find the following words of praise and commendation for our Society. Surely our light is set on a hill: (Reclamation Record, Volume 6, No. 10, October, 1915.)

THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

"There is a splendid suggestion, especially for rural clubs, in the work of the Relief Society, an organization of the 'Mormon' Church. This organization has a total membership of over 45,000 women, who meet once a week. Once a month they work for the poor or for some overworked member. Mending, sewing, even cooking, is done, and is made the occasion of a most sociable time. The next three meetings are devoted to typical club work, literature, civics, home economics, etc. But special emphasis is put on helping each other in times of overstrain, such as sickness or disaster. It is not a charity organization in any sense, but a co-operative movement among women who pool their efforts and minister to an all-around womanhood. Assistance is given in time of need to any woman, regardless of religion, race, or nationality."

Officers of Reclamation Organization: Hon. Franklin Knight Lane, Secretary of the Interior. Brigadier-General William L. Marshall, United States Army, retired, consulting engineer to the Secretary. The following three officials of the Reclamation Service constitute a board or commission for the purpose of considering all questions of administrative policy and management, and recommending action thereon to the Secretary of the Interior: Arthur Powell Davis, director and chief engineer, Washington, D. C.; Will R. King, chief counsel, Washington, D. C.; W. A. Ryan, comptroller, Washington, D. C.

A Prince of Ur. Homespun. (continued.)

"Who is Sarai?" again bellowed the King. Suddenly there rang through the audience chamber the long and blood-curdling cry of a woman. "Give speech! What is that?" cried the king. Scarcely had the vibrations ceased before a woman, clothed in pure white, her dark and glossy hair falling about her, unbound under her thin streaming veil, which covered face and form in a white mask, crossed the room with flying, white-sandaled feet, and thrusting away the arm of the soldier who barred her approach, she flung herself in wildest abandon at the king's feet, throwing out her arms in grief's "My lord, my royal kinsman — lord of the Euphrates — hear my cry! Give heed to my tears." "What now, what now! Give speech her place upon thy wandering tongue three; brief, as befits a warrior's daughter." "My lord, daughters of this house, converted to the true religion of God our eternal Father, themselves descendants of Cush, but baptized into the religion of Father Noah and Adam, these three maidens, pure as when they left their mother's breasts have been this very hour carried from these gates, to be offered as human sacrifices to Terah— dedicate the iron altar of Elkanah." "What is this? now— who is Thy daughter surely! None other would wear the white linen of the royal household— what now? What now?" "My over-lord, she is my son's daughter,” answered Terah, his dry throat making speech painful. "She is far from her duty in thus breaking into your presence, no matter what the provocation." " "Shall a royal princess have no rights to plead for life.” Thus gravely spoke Abram, who now stood very close to his father's side. "Hold thy speech, Abram," cried Nimrod roughly. Thou dost meddle too much. This is my affair. The princess hath appealed to me. What is thy name, damsel?" asked Nimrod. "My name, sire — my name is Sarai!" The princess bowed again at the foot of the throne, her glorious hair sweeping around her, under the meshes of her thin veil. "Then these are the Prince Abram and the Princess Sarai," growled Nimrod, in his beard, his deep voice rolling like an angry flood over the bowed head of the princess. Turning to Abram, he demanded: "Who told thee to set thy face against the religion of Assyria? Who told thee to plead a cause of which thou hast no right? Fall back, bold prince. I like thee not so near mine own sacred person." The king's frown was black with high displeasure and bitter hate. "May I speak, your gracious majesty, god of the Euphrates and lord of the two worlds — consort of the Moon-goddess and master of the mighty Ishtar?" The high-sounding titles with which his courtiers had endowed him were spoken with melodious unction by Mardan. The young and perfumed prince kneeled — nay bowed — to the earth in deep devotion as he caught the bold eyes of his father Nimrod with another familiar secret sign. "Speak on, Mardan. I may not like thy speech, for I am finding many hidden snares in Terah's household. But speak on!" The pale and sensual face of Mardan was raised in smiling worship to the king, and his popping light brown eyes and the thin, yet curling hair over his high and narrow brows, gave him the air of a courtier and sycophant. "Rise, my weakling! Tell thy story!" "Is it not meet that my lord and god should be received in this great city of Ur by the smoking sacrifice of human flesh? What greater testimonial can we offer thee than the broken body and the spilt blood of adoring human hearts?" The lust of blood was very keen in Nimrod, and he now recognized in his once cowardly son Mardan, a man after his own heart. The effeminate youth reared himself loftily, and struck an attitude of graceful, studied abandon, so close to his distressed old kinsman Terah, that Mardan could feel the hot breath of his aged relative thick upon his breast. But Mardan was now to make the supreme effort of his life. "Sire— Lord of all the earth, you see before you a convert to the true religion of the great Assyrian nation. I was reared — as thou knowest, gracious potentate — according to thine own decree, by this old man. Satrap Terah, than whom no truer, kinglier man doth live upon this, thy footstool. He hath been guardian, friend of my childhood days, idol of my youth and younger manhood. He has ever sought your gracious majesty's welfare; and even when he must at times come into silent opposition to the will of his old father Shem — now king of Salem — because of certain uncompromising and childish virtues in old Father Shem's peculiar scheme of life, this grand old man has been the friend, the champion of your majesty. When your edict was issued forbidding the Prince Terah to confer the priesthood upon any of his own descendants was communicated to him, his mighty heart and soul rose to the grandeur of that lofty possibilities, and he bowed in meek submission to your will." Terah stirred uneasily in his seat. He had heard this smooth and oily flattering recital of his own adherence and submission to Nimrod, given by this subtle descendant of Nimrod before; but never had it struck upon his ear with quite the same meaning as it now bore to his startled senses. Was it possible that the clear and correct conceptions of his grandson Abram, who was also listening to this very two-edged explanation, was communicating itself of Terah's once somewhat hazy ideals and views in another light at the matter of this issue. "Not one soul in all this household has received the imposition of hands by one having authority in the ancient order of the priesthood, save and except only this rebel Abram, who received the ordination under the hands of Father Shem when yet a child in Salem. Myself, I now scorn to remember and bear record that I too was thus ordained in early youth by that great, yet narrow and bigoted partisan forefather of us all — Noah. I grew up in fear of the power of that priesthood, fear of doing violence to its mandates if I so much as stood in admiration before a statue of your own lordly person — my dear sire and Lord Merodach. And that, too, when my old kinsman, this brave old Terah, had caused such idols to be shaped and molded in his own workshops by the cunning hand of Azzi-jaami."

"Who, pray, is Azzi-jaami?" asked the king.

"He is thy slave from Lower Mesopotamia. He hath the most skilled cunning in artificing brass and metal that hath been seen in all the valley of the Euphrates. He hath been converted to the old, foolish, worn-out Semitic teachings held even now by my traitorous cousin Abram, but long since discarded by thy son who speaketh, and by thy servant Terah."

"Speak for thyself, Mardan," growled Terah, angrily, yet low in his beard.

"When the three daughters of this idol-maker, Azzi-jaami, grew to womanhood, tall as cedars of Lebanon, full-hipped, full-bosomed, with coral lips and glossy blue-black hair and eyes that swam in a liquid sea of blue-white enticement — my fair cousins Tscha and Irit, whose slave-maidens these are, required them last night to accompany themselves to the pavilion, there to go out upon the sacred pavements of the goddess Ishtar, and there to await the invitation which should usher them properly into Babylonian mysteries and thus begin their work of procreation. I submit to you that this request was neither more

540 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

nor less than compliance with the known laws, social and state, which govern this kingdom of Assyria."

"Well, well!" asked the king, impatiently.

"These foolish Cushite virgins refused to submit. They claim their direct inheritance through the sacred loins of Ham as protection to them in their adherence to the religious absurdities and quaint old-world beliefs of this disloyal Prince Abram."

The name Abram stirred all the evil passions of the king. He glanced gloomily at the prince, who stood with folded arms across his breast.

"Let Elkanah's sacrificial altar be prepared for the three black maidens. I will myself officiate!" Thus spoke the king, as he gazed intently upon the prostrate figure of the white-robed Princess Sarai kneeling on the throne steps below him. He was determined to see her face.

With a stilled cry of terror and woe, the girl raised her head as he pronounced the sentence, and as she did so, the king tore the veil from her face. At full sight of her glorious beauty, he sank heavily in his seat, his glaring eyes feasting on her face.

"God of my fathers — this is Ishtar; her incarnation is before me — star of a thousand heavens — gleaming moon of glory — who and what art thou?"

The huge form of the king bent over the stately, yet delicate, form of the girl at his feet, his wicked eyes glowed between their withered lids and sparkled with the fires of hell; his senile lips moved on and his mumbling phrases were lost in the quiver of his heavily-bearded lips.

Cowering like a lily beat down by a tempest, Sarai threw her arms above her head, and with one swift spring, she was upon her feet; but the king was as quick, and he seized her quivering body in his huge arms.

With the rush of a mountain cloud-burst, Abram flung himself upon the treacherous king, and with a sudden twist of his own knee, he had wrenched the limbs of this giant, like spindles. A blow beneath the ear, and the huge arms relaxed, and the girl was free.

"Back, slaves, minions; back, I say! Death is free to him who dares to set one foot forward!" cried Abram. His towering form, almost as tall as the king's own, flashed white as his outer abayah fell away and left him clothed only in his gleaming white robe. The soldiers cowered before his furious onslaught.

Lot, Terah, a host of the lords of the desert, crowded about Abram. With a cry of "Liberty!" they fought down the soldiers of the king, and Abram fought his way out of the hall, guarding his kinswoman as they fled.

(to be continued.)

Current Topics.
James H. Anderson.

Passports to "Mormon" missionaries to Great Britain are again being issued; but the missionaries to be sent there at present are of necessity few in number.

The Hawaiian Islands is to be the location of a Temple to the Most High, the first of such structures in history to be built in the "isles of the sea" whence the gospel is to gather Israel into its fold.

Serbia has come to be the chief theater, for a time, of the great European war, in developments which likely will reach culmination within the Turkish dominions.

Greece refused the offer of the island of Cyprus as an inducement to enter the European war. To an outsider such offer looks like a diplomatic game ultimately to rid the Grecians of a pro-German ruler. The ways of diplomats are devious.

An earthquake shook up California, Oregon, Washington, Nevada and Utah in the latter part of October. The principal damage was the caving in of portions of railway tunnels along the line of the Southern Pacific in Nevada.

The Armenian massacres in Turkey have thus far claimed 1,860,000 victims, according to official reports. Turkey and her allies claim that the Turkish manner of suppressing Armenian Christians is nobody's business outside of Turkey, but other nations take a decidedly different view.

Equal suffrage was defeated at the election in New Jersey in October, but that the issue is yet very much alive is shown in the fact that following the New Jersey election came an equal suffrage parade in New York City, where 40,000 women marched in line.

China has tried a republic as a form of government for the Mongolian, but finding the masses not yet developed to the status of popular rule, threatens to go back to a monarchy, which, however, will be much more liberal than heretofore in that country.

Mexico's troubles seem to be settling down for a time with

542 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

the recognition by the United States of a government there, and an embargo through this country on shipments of munitions of war to all others. A widespread belief has obtained in this country that the placing of an embargo on war munitions from this country would settle the Mexican disturbances.

The Jewish colony at Clarion, Sanpete County, is being abandoned, it is said, owing to insufficiency of the crops raised to meet the needs of the colonists. An effort is in progress to locate the colonists in Davis county, immediately north of Salt Lake City.

The new tax laws in Utah have been a theme of much discussion among county and state officials of late. The people will discuss these more thoroughly when experience demonstrates whether they mean an increase or a lessening of the present heavy tax burden.

Emma Lucy Gates was accorded a most cordial reception upon her appearance in grand opera, when she returned to her Utah home. The unanimous verdict of good judges is that Miss Gates deserves commendation not only as a great artist among the world's prima donnas, but as an accomplished actress.

Baseball seems to have attracted more general attention in Utah the past summer than any other form of amusement. In the Pacific Coast League, with six first-rate teams competing, Salt Lake obtained second place, winning 107 games out of 196 played. San Francisco held first place.

Wireless conveyance of the human voice over a distance of nearly 5,000 miles may be regarded as one of the great discoveries of the age. This was accomplished recently in communications between Washington, D. C., and Paris, France, also between Washington and the Hawaiian Islands.

New Testaments in excess of 1,000,000 copies have been sent from London to Germany by the British Bible Society since the breaking out of the war sixteen months ago. Thus far the printed word has not shown much control over the ammunition wagon, but it may do so in time.

Moral training of children is a vital factor in the Church schools, as pointed out by President Joseph F. Smith at the recent October Conference in Salt Lake City, when he also referred to the excessive burden of taxation that is being placed on the people of Utah for the maintenance of schools which give no re-

CURRENT TOPICS. 543

ligious training, and in that respect are deficient in supplying one of the greater necessities of child life.

The Immigration Service has received a setback by a decision of the United States Supreme Court that aliens cannot be debarred from this country because of business depression here. The decision will be a most salutary one if it shall impress the immigration service department of government with the idea of reasonable enforcement of law rather than interpretations based on racial or religious prejudices.

Waning prejudice against Utah was strongly in evidence recently in St. Louis, when Frank J. Cannon was refused the use of large church edifices there to slander the "Mormon" people; the refusal being due to the fact that leading business men and others are weary of hearing sensational falsehoods against Utah, and themselves have learned the truth by visits to this State.

Miss Edith Cavell, an English nurse in Belgium, who has nursed wounded Germans, Belgians and English during months of the war, saving the lives of several of each nationality, and who aided some English and Belgian soldiers to escape, was executed by the German military authorities, who, when appealed to by the American and Spanish ministers, made untruthful statements to the latter, it is officially reported. A German woman in England, convicted of the same grade of offense, was sentenced to six months imprisonment. The German officials justify the execution of Miss Cavell on the ground of rules of war, while their opponents denounce the act as despicable barbarism.

Preparedness for war has come suddenly to the front in the United States, in strong contrast with the ultra-peace movement of a twelvemonth since. That this preparedness, instead of being gradual, should be a great and immediate expensive movement, costing the people additional hundreds of millions of dollars all at once, seems puzzling, in view of the fact that all the large nations are so occupied and exhausted by the present European conflict that the United States is more immune from attack now than for many decades. With a gradual, rather than sudden, and consequently a less exhausting preparation, this country would be ready in time to cope with any possible situation abroad, and also would get the advantage of scientific improvements which must develop after the outcome of the present contest in its re-arrangement of national relations.

In the Kitchen Laboratory.
By Hazel Love Dunford.

THE CHRISTMAS FESTIVAL.

Thoughtful people are beginning to think we are in danger of losing the spirit of Christmas, that most blessed of festivals, by "doing" it to death. The funny papers have even taken it up, making ridiculous stories of it. However, women "tired to death," men in debt, and children in tears, are stern realities.

This is the greatest, the most blessed, day of the year, and it depends on the womanliness of true women to make it the most enjoyable, by means of simple sincerity. The true meaning of the day, its lessons and its significance, are being lost under a mass of sham and rubbish, while the light of our dear Savior is ever shining, to lead us home again.

Perhaps no courtesy is more abused, or will it be more polite to say, so little understood? as the art of Christmas giving, and Christmas receiving.

Christmas day is a busy day for the mother, especially if there are to be guests in the house. The common custom of a late breakfast, an early dinner, and a late supper has little to recommend it, and much could be said against it. Where there are children, the stockings have been hung in the chimney for the visit of Santa Claus — consequently there is always an early awakening. Breakfast should then be served not later than eight o'clock, so the work of preparation and cleaning away can be done early. Have a very simple lunch at one, and dinner at five or six. If, however, breakfast is late, have but two meals, serving the dinner at two or three.

Make your table as much of a happy surprise as possible, in decoration, in gifts, etc. The meals should be simple and wholesome. It is in the nature of a disgrace to have sick children the day after Christmas, because of allowing them unwonted "stuffing," and foolish gormandizing on candy and rich foods.

In order to save work, the mother should prepare her food a day or two in advance.

In the past two years, it has become an accepted fact that Christmas gifts sap the energies, purse, and love of men and women, in need of recuperation, rather than of increased strain. Instead of Christmas being a blessed season, it will thus become, if it has not already, a dreaded season.

Sincere simplicity, common sense, proper pride and delicacy of feeling, must come as a relief; wisdom, affection and love should prompt the gifts; good

IN THE KITCHEN LABORATORY. 545

judgment and wisdom should adapt them to the needs and circumstances of the recipient.

There are many simple things that might be done that show thought and love. Make your friend or neighbor a nice plum pudding — easily done — while you are making your own. Send her the recipe, if it is a favorite with you, or send her a nice basket of cookies. I am sure they will be acceptable. Be sure to send them early, so as to save your friend the trouble of making. A nice suet pudding can be wrapped and sent in the can, and needs only to be warmed. I know a busy woman who sends out over a dozen plum puddings to her friends, as she makes them easily, enjoys doing it, and prefers this form of remembrance to any other.

RECIPES.

Italian Fig Pudding.
3/4 lb. figs chopped fine
1 c. chopped suet
2 c. stale bread crumbs
1/2 c. salt
1/2 t. soda
1/2 c. milk
2 eggs
1/2 c. sugar
1/3 c. molasses
1/2 nutmeg

Rub suet until creamy, then add figs. Soak the bread crumbs in milk, add egg well beaten, molasses, sugar, flour, nutmeg. Combine mixture, turn into buttered molds and steam three hours. Serve with a rich sauce.

Date Pudding.
2 eggs
1/4 c. butter
1 t. baking powder
1 c. sugar
1/4 c. milk
Flour to make thick batter

Stir in 1 cup dates, cut in quarters, fill molds half full and steam two hours.

ECONOMY PUDDING.

Any desired fruit may be used — a little jam left over, or a few cherries, not enough for a meal; or five cents worth of cranberries, or a little stewed pie plant. Put this into a sauce pan and add enough sugar to sweeten and enough water, so it will not burn. One cup flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, a little salt, well sifted. Now carefully add water or skim milk to make soft dough. Drop by spoonfuls on fruit, cover closely and set on back of the stove and let steam one-half hour. Serve with cream.

EDITORIAL

Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah.

Motto — Charity Never Faileth.

THE GENERAL BOARD

Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President
Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor
Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor
Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary
Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer

Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon
Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas
Miss Edna May Davis
Dr. Romania B. Penrose
Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne
Miss Sarah McLelland
Mrs. Emily S. Richards
Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings
Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon
Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth
Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox
Mrs. Janette A. Hyde
Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie
Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley
Miss Sarah Eddington
Mrs. Ida Dusenberry
Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director
Miss Edna Coray, Organist

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Editor Susa Young Gates
Business Manager Janette A. Hyde
Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman

Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. II. DECEMBER, 1915. No. 12.

THE END OF THIS YEAR'S TODAYS.

Over the sun-bright face of yesterday falls the dawn-lit veil of today. The twilight of tonight forms the mysterious womb of tomorrow. Yesterdays, todays, and tomorrows come and go, and lo the year is over! Into the past fade the todays, while tomorrow creeps silently to our knees.

They are our children — ye mothers of today — these yesterdays of ours. Born of our travail and struggle, those yesterdays came into life, throbbed and accomplished for a brief hour, and faded into the tomb of forgetfulness. Oh, those yesterdays! Lovely they were in their dawning youth, bright with promise, vigorous with hope. The sweating noon-tide found them at their prime, and vanquished or was vanquished by their mature powers. The effulgent afternoons completed struggles or prolonged hope — modified failure or dulled despair. The long twilight floating slowly over, calmed all tempests, stilled all enterprise. And the nights took our child-yesterdays in their bosoms as Mother Earth absorbs her children's dust, closing the eyes of hope and folding effort into the silence of death's repose.

But they were good yesterdays — very good. We loved them, every one. Even when their sad faces were scarred with defeat, and their broken hearts were cankered with disappointments — for they were ours; all we had. They were our possibilities and our opportunities. It matters little how they treated us, in their short lives; it matters much how we treated them. For out of every defeat they brought us, we could, if we would, press a vial of perfumed triumph. We may have suffered much, but in that suffering, we may have conquered more.

Treat them tenderly, old Time, our beloved yesterdays. Fold them sweetly to rest, till we shall meet them gladly or shamefacedly at the bar of justice in the divine tomorrow. We have loved them or scorned them, according to our measure, and now — at this fading of this year's today into the next year's tomorrow, we mothers of our yesterdays lay them softly by, wrapped in the tissues of our love, while we water their graves with the tears of memory.

Ah, my precious today of this year, linger near me with your twilight thoughts, until some stern resolve takes conception within me to make of my beloved tomorrows of the coming year the brave, true, sympathetic todays that shine before my eyes of faith with promise of fulfillment.

GENEALOGICAL CLASSES.

The bishop of the Tenth ward in this city presented the Relief Society with enough of our genealogical blanks for every person in the ward, so that the genealogical data could be secured at once. Duplicates are prepared, both the individual and the ward being thus supplied. These ward records will be preserved. We commend this example to other generous and progressive bishops.

Classes in Genealogy have been opened in the Bishop's Building for Salt Lake City and county stakes. The Monday afternoon class deals with the history of surnames, is an advanced course, and is under the charge of the Genealogical Committee of the General Board — instructors, Mesdames Susa Young Gates, Amy Brown Lyman, and Janette A. Hyde. The Wednesday evening class is a beginners' class for men principally, and will present the six lesson course given in stake classes. The instructor is Elder Nephi Anderson. There is no charge for either class, and all interested are invited to attend.

Guide Lessons.

Lesson I. Theology and Testimony.

First Week, January, 4, 1916.

Subject: Women of the Bible.

EVE.

The character of our great Mother Eve is that of all her daughters, in embryo. What she was we are or may be. She was the great prototype of us all. Our virtues, our faults, these rested within her as the full grown blossom nestles in the green calyx of the rose. Some day, we shall all see her and know her as she is. For she was a very real, a very human, and a very god-like mother.

Her name signifies life — the mother of all living. Chief among her characteristics was that of womanliness. She was quite content to see her own life mirrored in that of her husband and of her sons. And yet, from the accounts we have of her, she was possessed of some dominant characteristics. For she had of that kind of courage which is compounded of daring and recklessness; she dared to disobey, when her husband, more cautious and more alive to the dangers of disobedience, refused to break the first great law. It is true that she was deceived. She unknowingly put her heavenly Father at defiance — but she also thought that a greater blessing would follow — by the courage she showed in her act of disobedience. What daughter of hers would not also suffer, if husband or children could be helped, taught, saved? Eve was a compound of curiosity and unselfish willingness to suffer that her loved ones might enjoy.

Eve was beautiful, with all that makes for loveliness, for grace, for dignity, for winsomeness, for sweet and gracious womanliness — this was Eve. She was guileless and trusting, with that sweet independent relinquishment of her own will to that of her husband's which has and does mark all her daughters who are true women, and who have true, righteous men to lead them. After her fall Eve trusted and obeyed her husband, because he was both wiser and greater than she. There lives nor has lived any woman so wise, so great, but that somewhere there is a man

GUIDE LESSONS. 549

greater, wiser, and eminently fitted to become her mate because of these superior qualities. So with Eve. She loved and obeyed her husband, because it was a happiness so to do.

The Pearl of Great Price contains the most enlightening view of Eve given in any book. Read the fifth chapter for the account of Eve and her disobedient act, and note particularly the majesty and sweetness of her attitude as given in the eleventh verse: "And Eve, his wife, heard all these things and was glad, saying: Were it not for our transgressions, we never should have had seed, and never should have known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption, and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient."

This touching picture supplements the Book of Mormon account as given in II Nephi 2:22-25. And it is this illuminating glimpse of Eve which makes all women akin, and which is at once their weakness and their glory. Woman may lack discretion at times, but she is usually ready to repent, to climb with her torn hands back to the summit from which she has been flung. Whatever the first sin may have been, Eve was also the first to suffer its consequences. In turn she gave courage, faith, encouragement and hope to her husband, as do her righteous daughters always. Eve was not deserted by her loyal husband, but he shared both her sin and her reward. He "told on her," that is true; but he did not desert her, as so many of Adam's sons have done since. She was to be cast out of the garden of innocence — so Adam elected to share her trial and her knowledge.

Eve was no doubt the first worker in the arts and crafts. She used her nimble fingers and her quick brain to invent equipment and to give pleasure. She was not a creator, nor has she ever been so: she was and is the great developer. She catches a glimpse of a truth veiled to man, and carries it far beyond his slower powers of development.

Eve is and was the grandest, loveliest and most exquisite woman who ever lived.

Note. — Study carefully the two accounts of Eve's creation, given in the first and second chapters of Genesis. The first account is called the Eloheistic, the second the Jehovistic — the first deals, most probably, in eternal terms. The twenty-seventh verse of the first chapter, says: "So God created man" (forever and ever) "in his own image, in the image of God created he him: male and female created he them." This is all the proof that is necessary of the existence in heaven of father and mother, as parts of the eternal parenthood. The second account, it may be surmised, deals in symbols: the creation of Eve from Adam's side is the literal figure of every child's creation.

550 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

THEOLOGY QUESTIONS.

Where will you find the character of Eve displayed?  
What is the meaning of the word Eve?  
Read the fifth chapter of the Pearl of Great Price.  
Read the first, second and third chapters of Genesis.  
What can you say of Eve's courage?  
What of her humility?  
What do you think Eve would say to a mother of today who prevented child bearing?  
Give your own view of the life and character of Mother Eve.

Lesson II. Work and Business.

Second Week, January 11.

Lesson III. Genealogy and Art.

Third Week, January 18.

GENEALOGY.

There is such a wide difference between the conditions of study and work in this great Society, such variations of need and requirement, that it becomes at times difficult to adjust our lesson work to all classes. In this study of genealogy, for instance, some branches, and some stakes, have covered the lessons given last year twice over. While others have not yet begun to work upon them. Thus we have both beginners and graduates, as it were, to consider and plan for.

The General Board in considering this matter, have decided to spend the coming winter months in the study and practice of individual records: basing our work upon the L. D. S. Family and Individual Record, as arranged by Elder D. M. McAllister, and approved by the Church Authorities. It may well be that some stakes have already done this with great success and satisfaction. However, they, too must be content to follow along the current of our main stream, and no doubt there will be some phases of

GUIDE LESSONS. 551

the work thus to be presented which will be new, even to the advanced classes.

In the fall, beginning with our September work, we shall take up the study of surnames, which will be fitted especially to advanced workers. And the beginners can always go back and take the outlines given in this Magazine during the year 1915, supplemented by the standard Lesson Book published by the Genealogical Society of Utah. This will constitute a primary and an advanced grade of genealogical students.

This first lesson is, after all, not so much a study as a duty. We give three practical ways of advancing the great and growing cause of Genealogy in this Church. We wish our Relief Society sisters, each and every one, to emphasize the three following points in their coming winter's work:

1. Individual sheet must be prepared of every Relief Society member.  
2. All who can should join the Genealogical Society of Utah, and persuade others to do so.  
3. Each member of the Relief Society is to spend at least one day annually in the Temple in her district, or arrange for a woman to take her place.

We wish, in point No. 1, to urge each member of this Society to write out today the information required on the blank sample sheet of the McAllister Living Record. Some may have done this already; then let them help others to do likewise. We all think we know a great deal about ourselves; but none realize how little we know till we try to fill up all this data required. In future lessons, we will discuss some problems of this individual work. But this month, begin by writing your own sheet out.

In point No. 2, we desire to throw all our influence into securing life and annual members for the Genealogical Society of Utah. Why? Because it is right to do so. There are several reasons for this; first, the Society was formed to help the Saints get records of their dead. Second, books are purchased with every dollar of membership fees so paid in. And they need fifty thousand books in that library instead of three thousand, which they now have. Third, we are to have splendid library quarters in the new Church Administration building, and we want to get the necessary books to make of our library the most complete and useful in the world.

If the results of this great European war were to involve the destruction of the vast stores of books and manuscripts now in the British museum or in the royal libraries in other countries, where would this people look for records? Now is the accepted time. Membership in the

552 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

Society costs one dollar a year (one dollar besides for the first year as an initiation fee), or only ten dollars for a life membership. Other societies in the world charge from five to ten dollars a year, and the life membership is from fifty to one hundred dollars. Every adult in this Church should be a member of the Genealogical Society of Utah. Send to the secretary of that Society, at the Historian's Office, for further particulars, and for membership blanks.

Point No. 3 is but stating the evident duty and responsibility which is laid on each woman in the Church; that is, attendance of each woman at least one day annually at the Temple in her district, or where that is really impossible, to see that some woman does this for her. Certainly every Relief Society member will be glad to meet this requirement, and some will do much more than one day's work. But if it is done, there will not be room in the temples now built, to comfortably accommodate forty-five thousand women to go even for one day into the temples, in addition to the crowds already assembling there. Think what such a movement would mean — the imperative need for other temples in other selected places. And what does that mean? You women who love the gospel, answer.

QUESTIONS.

How will you fill out your individual sheet?  
What steps will you take to join the Genealogical Society of Utah?  
How many days do you spend in a temple annually?  
What do you think about building more temples?  
What prophecy can you relate concerning temples in this country?

Exercise. Have each person present write out her data on a blank sheet.

ART AND ARCHITECTURE FOR 1916.

"Eye hath not seen nor ear heard, neither hath it entered into the heart of man, what God hath prepared for those who love Him." — Words of Jesus.

I. LANDSCAPE STUDY.

Study of the Advance of the Seasons, Twilight Observations, and "Out of Doors" Parties.

GUIDE LESSONS. 553

II. STUDY OF ENGLISH AND AMERICAN ARCHITECTURE.

History of Architecture, by George M. Allen, B. S., E. M., University of Utah, Master of Architecture, Columbia University.

Devotees and their Shrines, pp. 120-131.

INTRODUCTION.

I am persuaded that the earth is heaven just as completely as that heaven will be that I hope to reach, when I finish my journey's end in this probation. I believe my duty is to discover this heaven on this side of the mountain, so that in a measure I may be prepared to appreciate that beautiful place I hope to reach after the hard climb is finished.

A prophet said: "Man is that he might have joy." Nothing is more joyful to man than the contemplation of the handiwork of God, but there must be some mystery and the element of surprise — something new to produce fullest joy. The same routine day after day, and year after year, naturally suppresses the emotional and intuitional natures, which are our best heritages. No matter how complete routine work may become, it is possible to keep alive within our breasts our best powers and capabilities. We may rise out of our conventional lives every day — perhaps many times a day — and feel the divinity within us by opening our hearts and souls to the beauty with which our heavenly Father has surrounded us.

A passing shadow is sufficient to kindle a spark of gratitude and of appreciation for a thing of beauty. Every manifestation of nature, the season's changes, the different hours of the day, the variations of light, the shift of color, the varieties of form, have within them wonderful charm to the awakened soul. Riches, however desirable, are not necessary to an appreciation of these manifestations in which we are constantly enveloped. Not even the wealthiest can have a corner on a twilight, a moonlight, or even a rainbow. No one, however great, can take upon himself the autumn colors, steal the gloaming that envelopes the river bank, nor rob the starlight of its mystery. And yet some of us feel poor!

It is our duty as Latter-day Saints to make our best endeavor to attune ourselves to the Universe. In taking note of things beautiful, we can train our finer selves, and get away from our baser natures, growing nearer to God, and more like Him. Let us take at least a few moments each day to study natural things about us, and try to disengage ourselves from those shallow and often expensive pleasures of life, which dull our senses, and our powers to understand our true relation to the universe.

554 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

In doing this, we will learn to better understand our indebtedness for God's favors, in which we live and breathe and have our being.

In connection with the art lesson this year, we are to take notice of the changes of the season. This may be better done by observing, from week to week, the same subject, such as a park or valley, or mountains, or lake-bank, noting change of color, leaf-budding, fall of leaves, etc. In April, at our conference time, we will show a series of water colors by James T. Harwood — twenty-five in number — painted during one year's time of the same subject — Liberty park, or its environs. To understand these pictures, as we should, let us study the sky, earth, and verdure, in relation to each other. We must study what the artist calls "values." The sky is at times darker than the ground — more often it is far lighter. By half closing the eyes, and looking through the lashes, it is more easy to discover values. Note the same scene at morning, bright sunlight, evening or twilight, starlight, moonlight, cloudy day, rainy weather, a snowy day, and tell when the sky is darkest, when the mountains are darkest, and when the ground is lighter than the sky, and vice versa.

ADVANCE OF THE SEASON: WINTER LANDSCAPE.

a. Describe the mountain creek as to color and form, winding down into the valley, during the snow season.  
b. Describe your best skating pond.  
c. Describe the character of your trees and foliage during, or just after, a snow storm.  
d. Describe the sheds and fences as to color and shape during a snow storm, and tell what change comes in color when the sun shines brightly upon them. What is the color of the snow in sunshine; what color are its shadows? Describe the effect of the scene under a passing cloud.  
e. Which is lighter, the sky or the snow blanket during sunshine?  
f. During shadow from overhanging clouds?  
g. What are the lightest and darkest notes of color, in the snow scene, during sunlight?  
h. Describe a January thaw.  
i. Describe the melting and freezing time, with its icicles, etc.

TWILIGHT STUDY.

a. What change of color is made in the sky from the moment the sun is lost from view until the stars appear? The nature of the sky and the clouds seems to be to reflect the glory of the approaching or of the sinking sun. Twilight is like a memory of things we love most. Do you like the twilight?

GUIDE LESSONS. 555

b. Why not leave the rich, who perhaps do not work so hard as yourselves, to enjoy this most beautiful time of day? Madam Wealthy cannot take from this life five cents of her money; but one must take one's own soul into the eternities. Should we let that soul wither through neglect or dis-use of divine powers? What can you do to enrich and strengthen your observation? (Do the evening work early, and take time to enjoy every moment of the twilight.)

ARCHITECTURE.

Devotees and their Shrines, 120-131.

1. Preface.  
2. Architecture in England.  
3. Architecture before the Renaissance.

Who is George M. Allen, author of History of Architecture in Devotees and their Shrines?

Answer: Son of Prof. David R. and Leila Merrill Allen, and the eldest living great grandchild of the late President Geo. A. Smith. He was a favorite great grandchild of the late President Bathsheba W. Smith, who named him. He graduated with honors at the University of Utah and took the degree of Master of Architecture at Columbia University, New York. He is intensely artistic, and has been greatly interested with his parents in artistic gardening. He is teaching classes in architecture, in Columbia, and is engaged in large architectural enterprises in New York City and in New Jersey. He inherits intellectual and artistic qualities from both parents, and physically is a type of the Prophet Joseph amplified, standing six feet four inches in his stockinged feet. He responded enthusiastically to the invitation to write a simple story of the development and utility of art in English and American architecture, and worked far into the night for weeks between hours of teaching and study at Columbia, to get his papers ready for illustration. The cuts were made in New York. The cuts for the art and gardening were made in Salt Lake City.

Pages 120-124, by George M. Allen, "Architecture."

(a) What is the difference between building and architecture?  
(b) The way and manner in which the architectural ideas of any time and people are expressed depend, on what three things?  
(c) What was the architecture in England before the Renaissance?  
(d) What influence was brought by Norman ecclesiastics?

Fig. 1 Interior of Norwich.

(e) What can you say of the ceiling vaults of stone?  
(f) What did this lead to.  
(g) What Gothic churches have you visited in Europe? Describe Westminster.

Fig. 2.

556 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

Lesson IV.  
Home Economics.

THE MODERN HOME.  
January 25.

The man, the woman and the child have formed the basis of society since the dawn of time. The mother and the child must have shelter from the storms, food for the body, and protection from outside dangers. The father must provide these. This is the fundamental reason for organized life. The human child is the most helpless creature alive; the mother of the human species is the least able to cope with physical danger, and requires most care from the male. In savage conditions, both in modern and in ancient times, the food was, and is, of the coarsest, and the shelter of the rudest nature. In the patriarchal days, tents and portable houses served for the home. In ancient times, as well as today, city life multiplies luxuries and complicates home living.

The Hebrews have ever kept their home altars bright; but the Pagans have ever made the individual — not the family — the unit of social and political life. In the dark ages, the convent controlled all social, political, and domestic life, thus making celibacy the ideal human condition. With the Renaissance — or the awakening — which followed the religious Reformation of Luther and Knox, the sounder and more righteous home ideal of ancient Israel began to emerge from the superstitions of the Dark Ages. The reformers themselves married and taught the value and importance of home life to the people. As the home developed in importance, the common people emerged into freedom and independence. The family of today is founded on the ancient relation of the man, the woman and the child. In ideal conditions, man's relative importance is gauged by his sincerity and activity in his family relations. The woman is considered in her relation to her child rather than in her independent condition as individual in society. The ideals of the family should be based on the fundamental virtues of truth, sobriety, chastity, and loyalty. The test of efficiency in the home, in society, in governmental, political, and religious life should be the true measure of the whole manhood and the whole womanhood. The Twentieth Century Home. The home of today is much modified, especially in urban or city conditions. While all civilized nations court the ideal of home standardization, yet few really cling to the fundamentals which are indispensable to true home-life. The changing conditions of man and woman in the last and present centuries, promises serious disasters, unless inspired rule of conduct hold the level of home ideals. Man has tacitly admitted that a double standard of virtue is a necessity for him, while woman has reached such a dizzy altitude in social activity that both these forces threaten the physical and spiritual integrity of the home. Social Conditions. The domestic virtues unconsciously practiced so long by Christian parents have all been brought out from their discreet hiding places, ticketed, labeled, and weighed in the balance. After all the modern rigid examination and discussion it has been decided by all concerned that the Bible is still, and after all, the vital domestic text-book. False ideals, uneven moral standards, the undue elevation of either man, woman, or the child becomes dangerous to society and the home, so that if we are to have an ideal home each falls naturally into the places God ordained for each to fill. And this permits us to approach our study of The Home from a true social angle. Political Changes. Man everywhere, in America, Europe, and even in Pagan Asia, is coming to a fuller understanding of his personal relations to government and his consequent personal responsibility to the state. It is only since the United States of America was declared independent, that man has actually achieved individual independence. For even today, it is only the privileged classes in so-called free England that may hold the highest offices in the state's gift. The present war will no doubt make great changes in political matters all over Europe. In the United States, woman, always a little behind her men-folk, is demanding and receiving full political equality. With political power, — the power to vote — goes political responsibility. The family should think carefully, discuss freely and vote wisely. Property rights of both men and women have taken almost unsafe jumps from the conservative standards of long ago. The legislation of the present time is very liberal to women and children, so liberal that other evils may arise which will offset the good done unless controlled and directed by wise and honest officeholders. Industrial Changes have been so startling that it is impossible to foresee the end. Machinery has changed all domestic and agricultural labor, and has entered the school, the business office, and has even invaded the realms of music, painting and sculpture. The industries, trades and professions are all dominated by constantly improving mechanical inventions, so that men and women must constantly adapt themselves to these changing conditions. The advantages of this industrial improvement are enormous. Time is given to man, through the machinery invented; but man and woman turn around and use the time thus gained, not so much to serve and bless each other as to increase their own selfish pleasures, while they multiply the sum of their own luxuries. All society cries out for more machinery, more money, more time, more luxury, more personal pleasure. Only one force — that of righteousness — will avail to adjust differences and to permit equality of right — the Gospel of Jesus Christ is the only solution to all human difficulties and disagreements. QUESTIONS ON LESSON I. 1. What is the meaning of renaissance? (See dictionary.) a. Tell something of its effects on literature, science, exploration, and the attitude of men's minds toward life. b. What great men stand out as instruments in bringing about this "new birth" of common intelligence and independent thinking. Did this 2. home what birth" and "new was have it? any effect on men and women in the a. What was man and woman's condition educationally and politically before and after the Renaissance? Tell all you can about the art of printing and its effect on humanity. 4. Where were the common industries of life performed before the renaissance and what part did woman take in them? 5. What effect did the changes in the performance of the industries have on humanity? 6. Of what does the present day family consist? a. What part does each take in the world's work? b. Is the work interchangeable and why? 7. What is the ideal of the average family today? a. Is it worthy? Should it be changed and why? How may it be changed? 8. What do you consider an efficient family? a. Define the word efficient. b. How may it be applied to family life. 9. What was the condition of man and woman prior to the nineteenth century in social life? political life? educational life? religious life? a. Do you think the homes of the past generation superior or inferior to those of the present day? And why? Could you suggest how a change could be made? 10. Name all the industries you can think of that were once performed in the home, but are now done by machinery. 11. What force will purify society and create a perfect home? Charity Never Faileth The Relief Society Magazine Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints VOLUME II "May the Relief Society Magazine enter upon its noble mission so firmly surrounded by the bulwarks of worthy and capable endeavor and enduring truth that its career may be successful and glorious." A F. Smith. Published by the General Board of the Relief Society Room 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Editor Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, Manager Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Assistant Manager 1915 THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Miss Edna May Davis Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist INDEX. 219 ILLUSTRATIONS. Richards, Jane S Smith, Sarah Ellen Richards.. 210 Auditorium, Panama-Pacific Section of Roof Garden Restaurant 480 Exposition 257, 259 277 Beautiful Flower Gardens at Shurtliff, Emily M ? 224 Cosy Home on South State. 166 Smith, Alice Fredericka. 2 Beautiful Flower Garden 169 Smith, Joseph the Prophet 3 Carter, Lucy Mack Smith.... 271 Smith, President Joseph F Chamberlain, Prof. John and Utah Building, Panama-Pacific 256 his Choir of Girls 436 Exposition Corner of the Hotel Utah Dining Room 479 Weber Stake Relief Society.. 221 479 Young, Zina D 344 Edward, Lizzie Thomas 432 Father Smith's Home, Nauvoo 96 MISCELLANEOUS PROSE. Fifteenth Ward Relief Society 113 Group of Men and Boys Cleaning April Conference 260 and Beautifying Grounds 196 Homes of Harvest Field ? John Hafen... 53 Beautifying Homes 16 Relief Society Women Harvest Field? Edwin Evans. . 60 Christmas Time, The 521 Harvest Scene? J. B. Fairbanks 57 Circular of the Relief Society. . Ill Inside Inn, at the Exposition. 258 Clothing 269, 320, 360 Joseph Interpreting the But Clothing for Women Pastler's and Baker's Dreams... 524 Forty 22, 69, 180, 228, 429 Judith 523 of Brother Old479 Conversion Kitchen of the Hotel Utah timer 357 Madonna and Child, The 520 537 Crochero, Augusta Joyce. 301 235, 279, 329, 365, 409, 454, 493, Current Topics....35, 72, 150, 182 Mansion House, Nauvoo 94 Masonic Lodge, Nauvoo 90 240, 285, 322, 371, 419, 462, 502, 541 Dressmaking at Home 105 Medal Presented to the Relief Early Development of Textile Society Art... 189, 266, 198, 242 Model Home 476 37,79, 159 198 481 Editorial: Model Home Kitchen 336, 375. 420, 464, 512, 545 300 242, 290, Model Relief Society Hall Nurse School of 1911 318 Genealogy... . 23,' 67, 154, 239, 287 of the Genealogical Genealogical Convention at the 257 Officials Fair Society of Utah 388 Plan of Relief Society Hall Genesis of the Relief Society 101 Give Us this Day Our Daily No. 1 313 Bread xoi Pioneer Midwives 349 HO, 327 Good Health Portrait, Relief Society Presidency in the Relief Society 5 Grain Saving Portrait Relief Society General and Sentiments J 6,7,8,9,10,11 12 Greetings Board... 39, 81 160 2(y Guide Lessons. Portrait, Elizabeth Ann Whitney246, 293, 338, 423, 466, 514, 548, Eliza R. Snow and Emmeline B. Wells Health Department 274 46 304 Her Vacation Relief Society Hall, 5th Ward, Stake Provo 125 History of the Weber Relief Society 217 Relief Society Hall, Parowan. 131 His Wife's Talents 447,486 Representative Women Physicians 343 Home Department 312. 364 Reverse Side of Medal Pre Home Gardening for Women represented to Relief Society 396 IV IN DUX. In the Kitchen Laboratory The Children's Bed 475 231, 272, 325, 362, 407, 451, 509, 544 The Crown that I Would Wear 518 International Genealogical To My Son 363 Congress at the Panama-Pacific Exposition 389 To My Sister With Love 9 Verse from Rudyard Kipling.. 188 Kitchen Kinks 107 What We Are Doing 1 Loving Tribute to Sarah Ellen We Love our Work 431 Richards Smith 215 INDEX TO AUTHORS. Music ? Spring 208 Music in the Church and in the Anderson, Edward H 34 Relief Society 433.Anderson, James H... 35, 72, 150, Music 472 182. 240, 285, 322, 419, 462, 502 "Mormon" Women Physicians 351 Anderson, Nephi 403 Notes from the Field 25, 76. 156, Arnold, Prof. A. B 65 195, 224, 276, 272, 417, 453, 504 Baggarley, Maud Nursing in the Relief Society.. 316 101, 110. 165, 193, 255, 274, 227 "Peace on Earth Good Will Cannon, Sarah Jenne 6 to Men" 13 Carroll Elsie Chamberlain 447, 486 Place of Music in Ward and Cooley, Martha Burton 209 Stake Relief Society 443 Crismon, Elizabeth Caine.... 11 Prince of Ur, A. . . .27, 71, 142. 184. Davis, Edna May 11 235, 279, 329, 365, 409, 454, 493. 537 Discord, Jakie 107 Relief Society The. . . .-. 20 Dunford, Hazel Love Relief Society, General Conference of the 231, 325, 362, 407, 451, 509 526 Empey, Emma A 6 Relief Society Woman and Eddington, Sarah 12 Her Home 447 Farnsworth. Julia P. M 8 Report of the Nauvoo Relief Gates, B. Cecil 208 Society 100 Gates, Susa Young 6, 87, 389 Safe and Sane Christmas, A... 534 Goodwin, Betsey 89 Selfishness of Jacob and Green, Lucy May 357, 443 Rachel 403 Homespun 27, 71, 142, 184 Smith Sarah Ellen Richards.. 211 235, 279, 329, 365, 409, 454, 493 Song of Wheat. . . ._ 87 Home, Alice Merrill 59, 9 Thanksgiving Day. in a Hospital of Saving Mission Grain Hyde, Janette A.... 12, 24, 257, 364 Jennings, Priscilla P 10 48347 Jensen, Marie 179 Textile Arts 102, 232 Kleinman, Bertha A 374 Wheat Values 65 Lyman. Amy Brown "Word of Wisdom" 193, 490 6, 260, 417, 453, 504 Ye Ancient and Honorable McCune, Elizabeth C 11 Order of Midwifery 345 McLelland, Sarah 11 Nibley, Rebecca Neibaur 10 POETRY. Pearson, Sarah E. H 45 Peay, Ida Stewart 483 Congratulations on the Birth Penrose, Dr. Romania 7 of Our Baby Magazine 89 Richards, Emily b 7 From Beyond the Gates 367 Smith. Joseph F 3, 13, 211 Genesis of the Relief Society.. 101 Smith, Julina L 4, 215 If it Could Be 374 Smith, Patriarch Hyrum 490 Snow, Eliza R 100 Life's Purpose 197 Thomas, Carrie S 9 Modern Thanksgiving. A 482 Mother Love 255 Two Sarahs 22, Ode to the Tabernacle Organ 326 69, 105, 180, 228, 269, 360, 429 Pore Old Dad 299 Valentine, Sophy 304 Qualyfide to Vote 519 Wells. Prest, Emmeline B. 47, 301 Thanksgiving 175 Widtsoe. Rose H. I02, 189, 232, 266 Wilcox Elizabeth S 10 "The Bridegroom Cometh" . . . 309 HOME SCIENCE LESSON. Leavened Bread. — The raising of bread by leaven — as was the ancient custom — was neither convenient nor sanitary. Leaven is a fermented substance; it was the custom to save a piece of raised dough from baking to baking, moulding this dough into the flour and water to act as yeast. If the dough was kept in a warm place or a little too long, it turned acid, and the cook must use salaratus to sweeten the new dough. The black and rye breads of Europe are even now raised in this way, and are permitted to be a little sour. Let the class supervisor bring some leaven and the materials to make it into a loaf of bread, giving instructions as she works. Salt Risen Bread. Have a cup of "salt risings" and explain the method of making bread in this manner. FLANK steak WITH VEGETABLES. Flank steak is cut from the loose ends of rib steak. Have the butcher score the steak, or beat it well with his hammer. Dredge with flour and fry brown on both sides in fry pan; then lay in a baking pan that can be closely covered. Over it, place a thick layer of thinly sliced raw potatoes, then a very thin layer of onions; over this pour 2 cups of stewed tomatoes, cover and cook in oven 2½ or 3 hours slowly. Remove cover; if necessary, add more water. Put on a platter and cut through, in serving, as a loaf. Note. — Our new Genealogical Lessons are now ready. Price 15 cents without Salvation Universal; 20 cents with this pamphlet included. Can be had at this office or at the Genealogical Society headquarters, Historian's Office, Salt Lake City. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Southern Pacific The Road of a Thousand Wonders The Standard for Safety Service Scenery Comfort Convenience Courtesy Don't Travel Haphazardly Plan Your Trip It Is Less Expensive To Travel Right Do you want full and accurate information from those who know Write, or better still, come into our new offices and have your trip to the TWO BIG EXPOSITIONS and CALIFORNIA arranged by those who have spent years of travel and study on the Pacific Coast. We Are Paid to Answer Questions and Like Our Work For itineraries and beautiful literature on California write or call on C.L. McFaul, District Passenger Agt. ( (SAFETY) Second Floor, Walker Bank Building SALT LAKE CITY It's so easy COLUMBIA for GRAFONOLA YOU to own a Here is shown the ''JEWEL' model— a high-grade instrument that Will bring you "All the music of all the World — any music at any time." TONE is the secret of the ever-increasing popularity of the GRAFONOLA. In sheer tonal beauty it is supreme. The tone is so ROUND and RICH and NATURAL. Here is shown the "JEWEL" GRAFONOLA Buy the GRAFONOLA if you want the BEST. With 24 Fine Selections Catalog showing (12 Double-disc Records) all styles ONLY $42.80 v; $10 Cash— $5 a Mo. from $17.50 up mailed FREE "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH MAGAZINE AGENTS, Devotees and ATTENTION! Their Shrines REDUCED TO $1.00 Postpaid Agents should always state The History of English and American whether each subscriber is a Architecture will be studied in 1916 from Mrs. Home's Art Book. Send now and renewal or a new subscriber. be ready for the year's work. Stake Presidents are requested to lend their aid and influence to secure loyal subscription lists for our Magazine. Send in your lists early and often. It's FREE -send for the little book "Cameos" Three thousand words on Cameos Not a Catalogue, but an interesting, instructive article on Cameos The only book of its kind published W. M. McCONAHAY, Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City Cameos in Rings, Scarf Pins, Neck Chains and Brooches, write about them UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters — and sons — to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah. RELIEF SOCIETY HEADQUARTERS For Approved Garments and Ladies' Utah Made Dress Goods Postage Prepaid and Samples Sent on Request CUTLER'S, 36 Main Street ASK YOUR DEALER FOR The Most Interesting, Z. C. M. I. Inspiring and Beautiful Western Scenic Sections Scout Shoes of the West The ideal summer shoes ARE REACHED VIA Including for men, youths and boys. Worn extensively by Ogden Canyon carpenters, iron workers, Bear River Canyon Shoshone Falls boy scouts, etc. Cheap Yellowstone Park Serviceable, Comfortable. Jackson Hole Country Lost River Country "Mountaineer" Wood River Country The Snake River and "The Leader" Payette Lakes Country Columbia River and Overalls don't rip; they Pacific Coast Resorts are guaranteed for wear. Pacific Coast Excursions Daily to November 30th For Descriptive Literature, address D. E. Burley. General Passenger Agent, O. S L., Salt Lake City, Utah