Vol. II AUGUST, 1915 No. 8 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Summer Health Number ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS ROOM 29, BISHOPS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH $1.00 a Year— Single Copy 10c WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO. NEWS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY OUR DRUG STORE IS COMPLETE PRICES RIGHT We Solicit Your Patronage Prompt Attention to Mail Orders TRY OUR QUICK LUNCH— IT'S DELICIOUS FRESH FLOWERS DAILY Marion Banks FINE MILLINERY CHARLTON'S Exclusive and correct styles in Women's Wear. Suits in Newest Cloth and Silk Materials, Latest Modes in Gowns and Blouses. This ad. will redeem 10 per cent, on purchases at regular price. 242 SOUTH MAIN STREET at reasonable Prices GOODWIN CORSETS When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct Style, Excellence and Satisfaction The Thomas Studio Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St. Two Books that Every L. D. S. Family Should Have The L. D. S. Family and Individual Record, approved by the Church Authorities, in which to enter the most important events and dates in the histories of families and individuals. Price $1.25 postpaid. Family Record of Temple Work for the Dead. $1.25 and upward. Write for Sample Pages, Free Deseret News Book Store PLAN YOUR GARDEN NOW You will find our Seed and Nursery Guide Book the most valuable assistant in telling you just what is worth while to plant in this climate. This book contains 112 pages fully illustrated just brimful of the information needed by every planter of Seeds, Plants, Shrubs, Roses and Trees. By securing it you will get the benefit of the thousands of experiments carried on at our Centerville Trials Grounds, and this alone is worth Dollars. You are entitled to a free copy of this valuable book. Mention this paper and write for it today. PORTER-WALTON CO. Seed and Nursery Specialists for U. S. A. SALT LAKE The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. CONTENTS — August 1915

Ye Ancient and Honorable Order of Midwifery 345
"Mormon" Women Physicians 351
The Conversion of Brother Oldtimer — Lucy May Green 357
Clothing for Women — The Two Sarahs 360
In the Kitchen Laboratory — Hazel Love Dunford 362
Home Department — Janette A. Hyde 364
A Prince of Ur 365
Homespun 365
Current Topics 371
Notes from the Field 373
If It Could Be — Bertha A. Kleinman 374
Editorial: Death Hath Her Victories 375
Guide Lessons 377

ADVERTISERS’ DIRECTORY

AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City
CUTLER'S, 36 S. Main Street, Salt Lake City
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 S. Main, Salt Lake City
DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, 8 Main Street, Salt Lake City
KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main & 260 State St., Salt Lake City
McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City
MARIAN BANKS, Millinery
CHARLTON'S SUIT & CLOAK CO., 242 South Main, Salt Lake City
MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main St., Salt Lake City
MUTUAL CREAMERY COMPANY, Salt Lake City
OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD
PORTER-WALTON CO., Seedmen, Nurserymen & Florists, Salt Lake City
RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City
S. M. TAYLOR & CO., Undertakers, 251–259 E. First South Street, Salt Lake City
THOMAS, Photographer
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City
WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City
Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City

If you’d like, I can also standardize the formatting across all months once you’re done gathering them!

ZINA D. YOUNG. Zion's Beloved Nurse and Midwife. THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. II. AUGUST, 1915. No. 8.

Ye Ancient and Honorable Order of Midwifery. As a profession, midwifery is as old as the world. Always and ever until the last century have women presided as high priestesses in the chamber of birth. Their skill, their resourcefulness, their tact, their tender touch, all these things, together with their natural cleanliness of mind and body, fit them to assist the mother, and to cleanse and prepare the child for its entrance into the world. Not until the advent of surgery, and the further discovery of anaesthetics, and that still more wonderful re-discovery of the necessity of excessive cleanliness, in this profession, were men even allowed in the chamber. The wonderfully strict regulations which are recorded by Moses in Leviticus, convince us that he provided inspired hygienic laws for the midwives among his people. The remnants of these traditionary laws, habits and customs are found today amongst the orientals and the Indians who were upon this continent and who are the children of Israel. All these traditions demonstrate this fact: that bathing, cleanliness and scrupulous care are the principles that Moses and the Hebrews taught and practiced, and these certainly were observed by many of his descendants. In the year 1663, in the dissolute country of France, under the reign of the dissolute King Louis, when one of the royal mistresses was about to be put to bed with a child, she objected to the royal midwife attending her, as she wished it kept secret, so the royal physician, Dr. Jules Clement, was called in, and his labors were successful. He was given the title, thereafter, of Royal Accoucher. Following closely upon this were the discoveries of surgery connected with obstetrics. Surgical cases, thereafter, became naturally a part of the practice of men physicians, as they were the only surgeons. Gradually the study and practice of surgical obstetrics 346 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. was taken over by men; and yet not until the most recent time, have men attempted to usurp all ordinary phases of midwifery, and turn women entirely out from their ancient profession. Early in the 18th century, a German, named Semmelweiss, taught medicos the value of aseptic cleanliness. Discovery was soon made that the dreaded puerperal fever was carried by midwives — by woman to woman, through microbes, and after aseptic cleansing became popular, men added that very old-fashioned but newly discovered truth to the necessity for surgical practice, in difficult cases of child birth, and they began to practice and study the science of midwifery or obstetrics entirely. It was Sir James Young Simpson who, in 1847, first taught the value of anaesthetics, as applied to obstetrics. He introduced ether and then chloroform into the birth chamber, and thereafter the practice of using anaesthetics was established. The pangs of child-birth were so modified and lessened with this practice, that it has become more popular each year, whether for good or ill. We have a graduate who studied under Sir James Young Simpson — Grandma Hardy, whose sketch is given in this number — and the certificate signed with his name is in this state. The free use of anaesthetics has become so popular, that it is now being used in some parts of Germany to induce what is called the "Twilight Sleep," that is, to deaden the pain before and after child-birth, so that the woman is unconscious of what she is passing through. This unsafe experiment is condemned by many physicians. For unnumbered years, the regulation and supervision of the practice of midwifery was not made a subject of law. Not until well on in the 19th century was there any regulation or supervision by the European countries in regard to the practice of obstetrics and midwifery. In the 17th century, in France and Germany, towards the close of that century, there were several schools for training midwives; both these trained women mostly in the art of nursing, and simple midwifery without giving them much in regard to the science of surgery. In France, there were two classes taught, or two grades, comprising a two years' course; but even then, women were forbidden to use instruments. In Germany, women were allowed full sway under the law, but the law provided the district in which they should practice. In Russia, there were senior and junior midwives. In England, there was no regulation, by law, until 1902. In our own state, the practice of midwifery was carried on by the whole-souled women who had taken it up in their own country, or who, on arriving here, were taught by their sympathies and skill to begin the profession, which afterwards demanded so much of their time, strength and their home-life. There is no record of the lives and labors of this devoted band of women among this people. This little article is written simply as a testimonial to their names. We have been able to gather a few facts about some of this famous band of women, and yet, we wish it could have been very much more. Who can describe the patience, the loving tenderness, the indomitable faith, the carefulness, the skill, and the study necessary to prepare these women for their profession. We give here the names, and a few facts concerning one or two of this famous and notable company of women, and make this a little testimonial to their lives, labors, sacrifice and devotion. Would that we possessed more of the same type of women amongst us today. All honor to their memory, may their lives on the other side be as beautiful, as fruitful, and as glorious as they have been here. ZINA D. YOUNG. Chief among the beautiful and refined women who have served the blessed homes of this people, was the most early and the most famous and best beloved. "Aunt" Zina D. Young served without money most of the women whom she delivered. If they gave her a gift of a dollar she was grateful; but far more she prized the moist eye of gratitude, the tender hand-clasp of love, and the whispered word of sympathy. She assisted most of the Lion House mothers and nursed many of their sick children. She studied in the pioneer nurse-class of 1849 taught by Dr. Willard Richards, and well-named the "Council of Health." Think of those early men and women instituting progressive movements like that, that are even now accounted as extremely modern and up-to-date! "Aunt" Zina studied again with Dr. Mary Barker in the early seventies, and taught a nursing class in the old Exponent Office. She went about, night and day, never sparing herself, delivering women, nursing the sick, robing the dead for their last resting-place, and almost to the last years of her long life she was ready to administer the healing ordinance used by our sisters, both within and without the Temple. She was a true friend to all women, and all women loved her. PRESCENDIA L. KIMBALL. Older sister to Aunt Zina. Sister Prescendia Kimball was also a midwife in the early pioneer days. She was a magnificent woman, in appearance, stately, gracious and proportioned on heroic lines. She was a tower of strength in a sick room, and her very 348 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. presence inspired courage and faith. She, too, went about ministering to the sick and delivering mothers. She was a remarkable woman in every way. Among the locally famous and beloved nurses and midwives we would name: Susannah Liptrot Richards, who was graduated in English nurse-schools, and who assisted her husband, Dr. Willard Richards, both in his teaching and practice. "Aunt" Patty Sessions was perhaps the oldest and best known of them all. She delivered over one thousand women, and she was set apart in Nauvoo by the Prophet Joseph Smith himself for this work. Diantha Morley Billings was another famous Nauvoo and pioneer nurse and midwife who was also set apart by the Prophet for this work; "Mother" Angel, the mother of Sister Mary Ann Angel Young, Sister Hyde, wife of Heman Hyde, Sister Katherine Wilson, Sister Rawson, Sister Dicey Perkins, who moved to St. George, Sister Fielding, Sister Latham, Sister Ann Booth, a wonderful healer from East India, Sister Saunders and Margaret Harrington, both trained in Cumberland, England, Sister Chandler, Sister Janette Taylor, trained in Scotland; Sister Ducanson. Among the later ones were the two splendid sisters, and wives of President Joseph F. Smith, Julina L. and Edna L. Smith, Sister Higbee, and others just as devoted, just as brave and just as beloved, whose names we do not have. GRANDMA HARDIE. "Grandma Hardie," as she was affectionately known, was born in the City of Leith, Scotland, April 10, 1810. She married February 10, 1829, at Dedford near London to John Hardie, and by him she had nine children. She lost her husband on December 21, 1847. She joined the "Mormon" Church about 1845, and, with five children, came to Utah, or rather left for Utah, March 23, 1856. She walked across the plains with the famous "Handcart Company," the captain of her company being Captain Daniel McArthur. They arrived in Salt Lake City, September 27, 1856. Before leaving her native land, she had entered the University of Edinburgh, studying obstetrics, and graduated under Sir James Y. Simpson. This famous physician, whose name is a household word in all the medical circles of Europe, was one of the pioneers of obstetrics; and it was he who first demonstrated the use of ether and chloroform in Europe. He was knighted by Queen Victoria, in recognition of his service to mankind. The diploma of Sister Hardy is still in existence, and is signed by this famous physician. On reaching Salt Lake City, Sister Hardie became, at once, THE ORDER OF MIDWIFERY. one of the most popular midwives of this intermountain country. She waited upon over one thousand women, and it is said of her, 349 that she never lost a case, except one, where the mother had contracted diphtheria, from its being in the house. Sister Hardie practiced in the Lying Inn hospital, of Edinburgh, two years before she came to this country, and was popular in her own land. She was invited to become the "wet" nurse to one of the Queen's children, but she had her own little babe, and the mother refused to give up the care of her own child, even to suckle the child of a queen. The sweet, gracious features of "Grandma Hardie" her benign influence, her tender solicitude, her courage, her indomitable faith, are traditions in every home in this pioneer country. The touch of her hand was solace, the sound of her voice was music; her memory is indeed a benediction. She, herself, bore a large family, among them being: John Hardie, Mrs. Grace Young, Mrs. Agnes Lynch and the famous actor, James Hardie. She died June 2, 1872, mourned by thousands of grateful pioneer mothers and friends. There were two "Grandma Hardy's" who were both midwives, and neither were related to Mrs. Hardie from Scotland. JANET DOWNING HARDIE CAROLINE HARDIE PIONEER MIDWIVES 350 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. MRS. CAROLINE HARDY. Caroline Bacon Rogers Hardy was born in Norridgewalk, Maine, September 16, 1806. In her girlhood, she went with her mother and sister, to Georgetown, Mass. There she was married to Samuel B. Hardy, January 17, 1826. Mrs. Hardy lived in Georgetown about six years, then moved on a farm in East Bradford (now Groveland) Essex county. There, they were visited by "Mormon" missionaries, and embraced the gospel in 1840. Immediately after their conversion, the Hardy home became headquarters for the missionaries, and meetings were held there each Sabbath, until they went to Utah. After the martyrdom of Joseph Smith, they were visited by Wilford Woodruff. It was then that a life-long friendship was formed between Brother Woodruff and Mr. Hardy, and family. They were urged to go to Utah with other families. Accordingly, in the spring of 1850, they started in Wilford Woodruff's company, and came across the plains with ox teams. They arrived in Salt Lake City, October 12, 1850. After their arrival there, Mrs. Hardy continued the practice of obstetrics and nursing for about ten years. She then went to Dixie with her husband, who was called to help settle that country, in 1861. Mrs. Hardy spent the rest of her life, except a few years spent in Virgin City, in St. George, where she continued nursing the sick. During her years of practice, she brought into the world more than one thousand babies. It was said of her that she was very successful in her work as a nurse, scarcely losing a case. She was the mother of a large family. Her oldest son, Augustus P. Hardy, was one of the first four "Mormons" who came to Dixie as missionaries, in 1854. As long as prayer meetings were continued, they were held at the Hardy home for many years. Mrs. Hardy died in November, 1898, at the age of ninety-two years. MARTHA HARDY. "The other Sister Hardy," Martha Longfellow Foster Hardy, was born in Newbury, Mass. She was the wife of Mansel Hardy of Groveland, Mass. Mr. Hardy died in 1852. After his death Mrs. Hardy came to Salt Lake City, and was married to Samuel B. Hardy (grandpa). She practiced obstetrics there. Soon after Dixie was settled, she came to St. George, where she lived until her death, in 1868. "Mormon" Women Physicians. Among the brave women who have sacrificed time, health, money, and pleasure, in administering to the sick, in this Church, none deserve greater reward, nor more honor than do the few women who have spent years in the East preparing themselves for physicians, and afterwards have returned to minister to the sick of this people. We give here, in this article, some pictures and sketches of a few of them; but not all were obtainable. However, we desire to place them on record, and call the attention of the young readers of the Magazine to these heroines who have borne and suffered much. Other physicians who deserve mention and equal honor are Dr. Emma Atkin, of Tooele, who died some years ago in Nephi; Dr. Jane Ivins McDonald, who lived and practiced in St. George, Dr. "Van" — Mary Emma Greene Van Schoonhooven — as she was lovingly and familiarly known, who was a grandniece of President Brigham Young. The two brilliant and successful physicians, Dr. Belle Anderson Gemmel and Dr. Elsie Ada Faust are practicing today in this city, and deserve to be mentioned with our own "Mormon" physicians, not only because they are able, and because they are women, but also because they are very near the line of kinship and fellowship which bind the genuine and true together in bonds of fellowship. MRS. ROMANIA B. PENROSE, M. D. From "Representative Women," by Augusta J. Crocheron. Romania Bunnell Penrose, daughter of Luther B. and Esther Mendenhall Bunnell, was born August 8, 1839, in Washington, Wayne county, Indiana. In her seventh year, she went with her parents to Nauvoo, and had the privilege of visiting the temple, and went with the Church to Winter Quarters. She says: "While there, I well remember being present when the martial band was marching round, and the call was made for the 'Mormon' Battalion, for Mexico. Although too young to appreciate the severe ordeal our devoted and persecuted people were subject to, I can never forget the feeling of grief which oppressed my little heart, as one after one the brave-hearted men fell into the ranks." From Winter Quarters her parents moved to Ohio, where her whole time was spent in attending school, the last year and a half at the Crawfordsville Female Seminary. In 1855, her 352 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. mother, then being a widow, with her family of two girls and two boys and their worldly effects, again joined the Saints at Atchison, now Omaha, where she was first baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, on the last of May, 1855, just before commencing their journey, with ox teams, across the plains to Salt Lake City, where they arrived September 3 of the same year. The summer journey of these months was a series of changing panoramic scenes as enchanting to the free, careless heart of a child as it was arduous to those of maturer years. Their arrival in the city of the Saints was during the grasshopper famine, when flour was twenty-five dollars per hundred weight, sugar forty cents per pound, and everything else in proportion, and although they had left plenty behind them, in the hands of guardians who refused to allow them any money (the children all being minors) to come away among the "Mormons," saying: "They will rob you of it all as soon as you get there." In consequence of this prejudice, they arrived in Salt Lake City penniless, and at a time when they, with thousands of others, had to learn the sweetness of the coarsest kind of bread. Romania taught day school and gave music lessons on the piano at intervals until she entered the medical profession. Through a love of literary pursuit and surrounding circumstances her attention was turned to the medical profession which she entered in 1873, and graduated in the Woman's Medical College of Philadelphia, in March, 1877. After graduating she remained in Philadelphia and took special courses on the eye and ear at Wills' Hospital and a dispensary on Chestnut Street, conducted by Dr. George Strawbridge. Leaving Philadelphia, she spent a few weeks visiting hydropathic institutions to learn something of the mode of administration and especially of water treatment. Immediately on her arrival home, by request, she commenced giving lectures to ladies and agitated the question of a hospital for women and children, and by counsel on account of great demand of obstetrical aid needed in the numerous settlements, soon instituted a school of midwifery, and taught two classes a year for twenty-eight years, except when absent for special study in the New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, where she spent eight months in 1881-2. Of medical members, Dr. Penrose's family certainly has had a goodly number, and of these we select Dr. Mendenhall, of Richmond, Indiana, her mother's cousin, Dr. Marmaduke Mendenhall, of North Carolina, her cousin, Dr. Paris Mendenhall; her brother, Dr. James R. Mendenhall, of Richmond, Indiana; Nereus Mendenhall, professor in New Garden Quaker College; also George D. and William Mendenhall, physicians. "MORMON" WOMEN PHYSICIANS. 353 Dr. Penrose is in appearance the very embodiment of grace and peace. Her cordial clasp of hand, a hand gentle, but somehow suggestive of the nerve, firmness, self-possession and power the true healer holds, gives one the intuition of her sympathy and benevolence. All these qualities are conveyed, as upon an open page, by the very presence of Dr. Penrose. Also, that other influence is felt that she, too, leans upon a higher power than human skill, the same Giver of life and health that the tenderest child looks up to. Dr. Romania B. Penrose was the first "Mormon" woman graduate. Following her return as graduate, next came Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, 1878; Mattie Paul Hughes, M. D., 1883; Elvira S. Barney, M. D., 1883, and Margaret C. Roberts, M. D., 1883. DR. ELLIS REYNOLDS SHIPP. Dr. Ellis R. Shipp was born in Iowa, in 1847, and in 1853, crossed the plains with her parents and went through the many struggles and privations attending the lot of the colonizers of early days. In her early womanhood she became the wife of Dr. M. B. Shipp, of Indiana. She continues to live in this city. Mrs. Shipp received her early teaching in the common schools, and later at the University. In 1875, she entered the Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania, taking the regular three years' course, and receiving the degree of Doctor of Medicine in 1878 — being the second Utah woman to graduate with honor from an eastern medical institution. She has since taken post-graduate courses in New York, Philadelphia and Ann Arbor, availing herself of the excellent clinics and hospital opportunities supplied in each place Upon her return to Utah she took up a successful practice, and also taught classes in special branches, her skill having proof in the large number of her trained students who have entered upon successful medical practice, not only throughout Utah, but also in Idaho, Colorado, Arizona, Canada, and Old Mexico. A poet of no mean ability, her poems show her to have given ear to the whisperings of nature and the heartbeats of humanity in more than a literal sense. She is a devoted mother, a true friend, and a noble, as well as a notable woman. DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS. Dr. Margaret C. Roberts graduated from the Woman's Medical College of Pennsylvania, in 1883. She practiced medicine and minor surgery in Salt Lake county, until seven and one-half years ago. The last ten years of practice, she has specialized in obstetrics; also taught classes in obstetrics and nursing. In 1898, she started the first Relief Society Nurse Class in 354 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Salt Lake stake. She taught two years free of charge; and then started the Relief Society Nurse School, under the auspices of the General Board of the Relief Society, in 1902. She has graduated over three hundred Relief Society nurses, and about as many midwives. She is re-engaged as medical instructor for the Obstetrics and Nursing School of the Relief Society for 1915-1916. Dr. Roberts is now spending some weeks in California to rest, to "see" and to brush up in her work for teaching. DR. ELVIRA STEVENS BARNEY. Elvira Stevens (her maiden name) was born in Gerry, Chautauqua County, N. Y., March 17, 1832. She was the daughter of Samuel C. Stevens, a merchant, and her mother was Minerva Althea Field, a schoolteacher before marriage. Elvira's great-grandfather was a soldier of the Revolution, and her grandfather, Simon Stevens, a doctor; her uncles were doctors and lawyers by profession. The Stevens family received the gospel in the state of New York, and Elvira was baptized when twelve years of age, in 1844. The family went to Nauvoo, Ill., in 1845, where the parents died, and left their five children almost penniless. What Elvira passed through from the time of being left an orphan until she grew to womanhood is almost past belief; but she had an abiding faith and unflinching integrity in the gospel and the perseverance under difficulties inherited from her Puritan ancestry. She was determined to learn, to gain an education. She had the ambition and through her own efforts and persistent zeal, she overcame almost insurmountable obstacles and succeeded in fitting herself for a teacher in the early days, studying at night to keep ahead of her pupils. Mrs. Barney was a very remarkable woman all through her life; in fact, a particularly strong character, indeed masterful, nothing daunting her energy, and her indomitable will surmounted all obstacles. In 1849, Elvira Stevens married, and she, in connection with her husband, was called on a mission to the Society Islands, but the mission was postponed, and finally, in 1850 or 1851, she started, in company with Apostle Parley P. Pratt, who was going to Chile. Dr. Barney educated herself; she attended for one or two years the Deseret University, and earned her own money to go to eastern colleges, and study medicine. After her return, she taught classes in obstetrics, and helped in various ways other young women to get on in the world. She died Jan. 12, 1909, in this city. Much more could be said in her praise, but her own works praise her in the gates of "MORMON" WOMEN PHYSICIANS. 355 the promised land. She has gone to her loved ones behind the veil, and after a long life of toil and hardship, she has entered into the glorious rest that remains for the Saints who have overcome and endured faithful to the end. "Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from henceforth." DR. MARTHA HUGHES CANNON. Dr. Mattie Hughes Cannon began her medical career by reading under Dr. Anderson and Dr. Seymour B. Young. For two years, she attended the University of Deseret for half of each day, while she worked as a compositor in the printing office of the Deseret News the other half. At the age of twenty-one, she entered the University of Michigan, at Ann Arbor. Two years later, she graduated, taking out her degree as an M. D. She spent her vacation practicing medicine on the Detroit River, near the Canadian border. The following fall, Dr. Hughes entered the scientific department of the University of Pennsylvania taking the auxiliary branches to medicine. In 1882, she received the degree of B. S. from that institution. Dr. Cannon is also a graduate of the National School of Elocution and Oratory in Philadelphia, with the degree of Bachelor of Oratory. On her return to Salt Lake, she became resident physician of the Deseret Hospital, besides conducting a large, private practice. Later, she traveled to Europe, and visited many of the hospitals there. As state senator during the 1897-1899 sessions of the Utah Legislature, Dr. Cannon secured the passage of a number of bills, relating to health and sanitation. Dr. Cannon was the first woman state senator in the United States. One of the bills passed, established the state board of health; another was a pure food law; one carried an appropriation for a hospital for the state school of Deaf, Dumb, and Blind (of which institution she was a director); and still another compelled merchants to provide seats for their women clerks. She was the author of the Medical Bill, which put the sanitation of the entire State on a working basis. For four years she was a member of the State Board of Health. At present, Dr. Cannon is a member of the National Medical Association, and Vice-President of the International Congress of Tuberculosis. She is also a member of the Psychological Section of the Medics Society of New York. For the past fifteen years she has specialized on the diseases of women. JANE W. K. SKOLFIELD, M. D. Born in Ogden, Weber County, May 19th, 1866, spent most of her girlhood days on the farm in Hooper, Weber County. Graduated in the public schools. Was married 1885. Taught in the public schools in 1886. The following year attended the Weber Stake Academy. In 1893 entered the Brigham Young University 356 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. versity to take up academic kindergarten training from which institution was graduated in 1895, the same year entered the Chicago Kindergarten College and took special diploma. In 1902 entered the Denver and Gross College of Medicine, of Denver, Colorado, and in 1907 was graduated with the degree of Doctor of Medicine. In December, 1907, was admitted on the house staff of the Doctor Groves Latter-day Saints Hospital, where she served a full year in the capacity of House Physician and Surgeon, being the first doctor to serve a full year interneship and receive a certificate of the same from that institution, and the first woman to be admitted as an interne in any hospital in the State of Utah. Dr. Skolfield has been instructor in obstetrics on the teaching staff for the past four years, and is now a member of the staff of the L. D. S. Hospital. In 1912 the Doctor served as a representative in the lower house of the State Legislature, and championed the nine-hour law and minimum wage law for working girls, besides introducing the eugenics bill, backed by the State Medical Board, also a number of other important medical bills. Dr. Skolfield occupies many public offices and positions and is a member of the City Board of Medical Examiners for the public schools of this city, and examiner for several Life Insurance Companies. Dr. Skolfield is the mother of four children and attends to her general practice as physician and surgeon, specializing in women's and children's diseases. She is an active member of the Business Women's Club, City Civics Club, acting as chairman of the sanitation committee. The doctor successfully manages a home and a large family. "A DAUGHTER OF THE NORTH." That deservedly popular author Nephi Anderson has just published a new and delightfully entertaining and instructive story, "A Daughter of the North." Wherever the Latter-day Saint's have a home there will be found a welcome for this charming tale. The author's clear, pellucid style, his power to visualize, and his weaving of vital truths of the Gospel into his narrative make him an ideal companion for both young and old. The characters of Captain Heldman and his beautiful daughter, Atelia, are particularly drawn; while the character of the "Mormon" missionary Waldemar Larsen, is convincing and strong. His struggles are full of vital suggestions to other missionaries, and the book should be read by them all. We heartily recommend it to all our readers. The low price, 75 cents, cloth bound, linings it in the range of all purses. The book can be purchased at all the book stores or from the author whose address is in care of Historian's Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. The book is one of the M. I. A. reading course. The Conversion of Brother Oldtimer. Lucy May Green. 'Twas Sunday afternoon, and the people of X Ward were gathered for their afternoon service. Brother Oldtimer was announcing the meetings for the week. "The Relief Society will meet at the usual time and place," he said wearily, and proceeded with the other business of the meeting. After church was over, he was approached by a young stranger — a recent convert, — who asked, "What is the object of the Relief Society, and what is done at their meetings? Could I become a member?" "Well," replied the brother, "that is where the mothers and grandmothers of the ward hold forth, bear their testimonies, report their visits to each other. It is said that 'We are the true born sons of Zion' is their favorite hymn." And the brother smiled, "You would be out of place there; it's only for the old people." The following evening. Brother Oldtimer and his wife — who was an officer in the Relief Society — were studying over the plans for their new ward house. "Where is the Relief Society room to be?" the wife asked anxiously. "This large sunny room next to the chapel will be just the place for us," she continued. "That is the Sunday School room," the husband said; "these rooms are for the Primary and Religion Class; and the north room is for the young people." "Well, wherever will the Relief Society meet?" asked Mrs. Oldtimer, almost in tears. "Here," replied the husband, pointing to a small room in the basement, "this is the place, it will be warm so near the furnace — and — well, it is rather dark, but you can use the electric lights, and on special occasions, you can meet in the chapel. And, my dear," he continued, "you Relief Society folks had better get to work, for we shall need a lot of rag carpet made for the aisles of our chapel, and the small rooms. We also expect to have a big ward fair shortly, and we shall expect you to have charge of the domestic booths; and, of course, you will prepare and serve the refreshments." "The trials of the present day require the Saints to work as well as pray," hummed the good lady, as she wearily tried to find places for a large bundle of clothing and a basket of miscellaneous articles which stood on the floor. "You will have to extend the clothes closets and build me some new cupboards," she said, as the husband helped her lift the heavy basket. "Whatever for," demanded her partner sharply. "Isn't the house large enough?" 358 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. ''Well, dear," she answered meekly, "since you undertook the management of the Relief Society finances, I have been worried almost ill trying to find places for all the various articles brought in by the Relief Society teachers." "Oh, bother the Relief Society," testily exclaimed the brother. "What good does it do? They're just a pack of old women, anyway." That night, the brother retired as usual, but on awaking, found himself in the other world. When he arrived at the golden gate and asked for admission to the heavenly land, the gatekeeper looked at him long and earnestly. voice. "You cannot enter here," he announced, in a firm, but quiet "Why not?" demanded the brother. "I've been a good saint for fifty years; paid a strict tithing, preached to the people, kept the Word of • Why, I've been a leading elder nineteen years. Oh, there must be some mistake." "You have never been completely converted," said the heavenly one. "And your sentence is that you shall spend some receiving further instructions, until your eyes are opened; time and then you may return to earth again, where you will become truly useful, and rectify your former mistakes." The brother was then placed in charge of a guide, and the journey back to earth was accomplished. They first visited a home where sickness and death were present. Two women were carefully nursing the sick children. In another room, others were washing and laying out the dead, while still another was trying to comfort the bereaved husband. "Who are these who labor so earnestly?" the visitor inquired. "Just the members of the Relief Society," his companion replied. Leaving this afflicted home, and traveling along a country road, the visitor was surprised to see several large wagons filled with sacks of wheat. "Where are you going with this wheat?" he asked a driver. "This wheat has been gathered by the Relief Society," was the reply, "and we are taking it to the elevator where it will be stored for time of need or famine." The companions next visited a hospital. There in a lecture room, a doctor was giving instructions to a number of brightfaced, earnest women. "This is the Relief Society Nurse Class," said the guide. "They are taking a special course to prepare themselves to nurse the poor who are sick and afflicted." Their next visit was to the Temple. "Ah, here I'll feel at home," thought the visitor. But no! "Why are there such large CONVERSION OF BROTHER OLDTIMER. 359 companies here," he asked the guide; "and an extra afternoon session, too? I have never seen so many people here before. What is the reason?" "The reason," said the guide, "is that the Relief Society has been taking up systematic studies in genealogy, and the spirit of Elijah has worked among them to such an extent that the desire to labor for the dead has taken hold of all the people, and we can scarcely accommodate the large numbers who come to the Temple. Leaving the sacred edifice, the two companions walked along quiet streets, where beautiful flower and vegetable gardens and improved sanitary conditions bore mute but eloquent testimony to the benefits derived from the Relief Society course in Home gardening and Sanitation. Passing a large, white building, the two were delighted with strains of sweet music, followed by sustained applause. "That is the Relief Society Choir, entertaining the old people at the County Infirmary," said the guide. "Now, come, let us visit the class in Ethics for Mothers," he continued. "Do they study motherhood as well? Is there any field of Relief work the wildered brother. Society is not engaged in?" faltered the now be "No," replied the guide. "Their studies in home work aid them in meeting the daily problems of home life, and in rearing their children. Their minds are kept alert by the discussion of current events, and their course of art studies help them to appreciate the beautiful world we live in. Faith in God and his gospel is stimulated and strengthened by the lessons in theology and ethics; and in testimony bearing, their knowledge of the gospel is increased. The monthly visits of the teachers is a source of encouragement and inspiration to the women of the Church; and the splendid work of their special missionaries among the lukewarm and wayward often result in conversions to the fold. By their splendid system of charity funds, the hungry are fed. the poor and needy are cared for, and the naked are clothed. They help to spread the gospel by aiding' the missionaries. They assist in building meetinghouses. In fact, their work is like His who came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and who gave His life to the service of humanity." "It is enough; I have learned my lesson. Mv eyes are open now.”  said the thoroughly humbled brother. And they, were indeed, open, in his old home. "What a wonderful lesson has been given me. Now, I mean earnestly.by it. Father in heaven, forgive and help me," he prayed to profit 360 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Again 'twas Sunday afternoon, and once more Brother Oldtimer was reading the announcements: "The Relief Society will meet on Tuesday afternoon at two o'clock, and I extend an earnest invitation to every woman in this Church to visit and become a member of this splendid Society for women. The various activities of the Society will interest and provide work for every one. I intend to visit the meeting next week, and will tell of a wonderful experience I have recently passed through. I appreciate your faithful labors, and with all my heart I say, "God bless the Relief Society." Clothing for Women. The Two Sarahs. During this month many of our people will visit the WoH 1"^Panama-Pacific Exposition for the Genealogical Congress. They will ask at once the following question: What will be necessary for me to take? We answer: A valise, or light wicker suit-case is best, because of its light weight. This valise should contain the following items: A small box or rubber bag, with compartments for toilet articles, including needles and thread, in case of emergency. An apron of tan linen or black silk, with pockets in, is invaluable. A drinking cup, clothes brush, and a few stamped and addressed envelopes and postal cards with paper, are essential. A chamois bag for your extra money, hung around your neck and pinned with a safety pin to your underwear. A traveling suit is the first requisite — coat and skirt — black, navy blue or brown, and if of serge or gaberdine, is very desirable; silk and net, or lawn waists to harmonize. A one-piece gown of soft taffeta or messaline for dress occasions is nice; a top coat of light wool or silk material is needed unless one has a suit. A pullman kimono of silk or cotton crepe, with hood attached, or a dainty boudoir cap, which conceals the hair and protects it from dust in the sleeper; a pretty dressing sacque to wear in your room, and a pair of easy slippers to rest your tired feet, are luxuries. CLOTHING FOR WOMEN. 361 A becoming hat, with veil and gloves to match, white collars and cuffs for street wear. Good, comfortable shoes with common sense heels, add much to the joy of walking. Three pairs of hosiery; a generous supply of handkerchiefs and changes of underwear suitable to the occasion. These can be washed out in your hotel, if necessary. But laundering is done cheaply. A FEW don'ts. Do not put your purse or jewelry under your pillow. Do not remove glasses or jewelry in toilet room. You are so apt to forget them. Do not wash your face too often; use a good cold cream or eau de cologne; massage well into the skin; use cold water for bathing the face — it contracts the muscles, and helps to keep away wrinkles. Nowhere, in traveling, do we see the fine qualities of the real lady so much in evidence, as in the Pullman toilet and dressing room. Rapidity marks her every action, especially when the car is crowded. Her one thought is: In what way can I better serve the other ladies on the car than by my own dispatch and courtesy. Use as little time and space as possible in the dressing room in the mornings. If you are remaining on the fair grounds, at San Francisco, during the evening, a warm overcoat is indispensable, especially during the months of July and August, as those are the two coldest months of the year. To meet this requirement, patrons will find on entering the grounds, lockers, where they can deposit parcels for a dime, keep the key themselves, and can return for their a\ arm wraps, when needed. Don't carry too large handbags. You will load them down with unnecessary things, and be constantly burdened as you move from place to place. Don't enter into conversation with strange men. Don't be familiar even with women. See, enjoy, but talk little. Ask officials for information, not passengers or travelers. In the Kitchen Laboratory. Hazel Love Dunford. FOOD FOR THE SICK. Diet in the large hospital is divided into three classes, namely: liquid, soft solid, and solid diet. In the first class are all liquids, including milk, gruels, beef extract, beef tea, egg nog, cream soups, cocoa, etc. The second class is made up of eggs, creamed toast, creamed sweet-breads, baked custards, junkets, jellies, etc., while in the solid diet, such foods as meat, fish, cereals, vegetables, and fruits are included. In considering food for the sick, there is no one food that is of so much importance, as is milk, for it contains all the five food principles. It is inexpensive in most localities, and easily taken. It agrees with most people. It can be cooked and combined with many other foods; and it is non-irritant. There are, however, a few disadvantages, most of which can be overcome to a certain degree. First,, as to bulk, such a large quantity must be taken by an adult, especially in order to get the required food value. Often times, the taste of milk is objected to. This can be overcome by adding salt or a little spice, such as nutmeg, cinnamon, or ginger, chocolate, or lime water. These are all very good to use, to alter the taste of milk. Some times, it causes nausea, probably due to the fat. It causes constipation with many individuals. This can be overcome by the use of magnesia. When milk is heated, a scum rises to the top; this contains coagulated albumen, a small quantity of coagulated casein, and some fat. If this is removed, of course some of the nutritive value is lost. If the scalded milk is beaten with a Dover egg-beater, the scum, which is so unsightly, will be so intermingled with the mass as not to be noticed. Milk should always be heated in a double boiler, so as not to overheat or burn it. If it is cooled immediately, some of the taste so peculiar to cooked milk will be overcome. Milk is one of the most easily contaminated foods we have. It should, therefore, be kept extremely clean and in covered vessels (not tightly). It should never be left standing in the sick room. Tvlilk can be combined with well-cooked cereals, to make gruels of great food value. For instance — graham flour, cream of wheat, oat meal, corn meal, and many others. In serving food to sick people, first make them as comfortable as possible. Make the tray just as attractive as means will permit: use artistic china: and be sure the tray is not too crowded. IN THE KITCHEN LABORATORY. 363 A fresh flower always shows thoughtfulness, and adds to the beauty of the tray. If there is no bed-side table, two blocks of wood can be placed on either side of the patient to hold the tray; or books or magazines may be stacked so as to serve the purpose. They must be high enough, so the tray will be off the individual. RECIPES. Asparagus Soup. 10 stalks of asparagus. Yolk 1 egg, / ^ cup chicken or veal stock 1 tb. cream, t. salt. Boil asparagus until tender y%; rub through seive, add stock and seasoning, then lastly, the beaten yolk. (Note. — Egg may be omitted, and flour used to thicken a little.) Orange Jelly. -)4 t. gelatine, . % c. orange juice, y2 t. cold water, 1 t. lemon juice, 1 tb. boiling water, 1^/^ tb. sugar. Soak gelatine in cold water, add boiling water, and stir until dissolved; add remaining ingredients, and set in a cool place until firm. Serve with whipped cream. TO MY SON. Do you know that your soul is of my soul such a part That you seem to be fibre and core of my heart? None other can pain me as you, dear, can do,, None other can please me or praise me as you. Remember the world will be quick with its blame. If shadow or stain ever darken your name, "Like mother like son" is a saying so true The world will judge largely of mother by you. Be yours, then, the task, if task it should be, To force the proud world to do homage to me. Be sure it will say when its verdict you've won. She reaped as she sowed. Lo! this is her son. Margaret Johnstone Graflin. Home Department. Janette A. Hyde. KITCHEN HELPS. In this wonderful inventive age, the shops are supplied with almost every conceivable contrivance used to make house-keeping more pleasant and easy. But in the selection of new handy articles, one must take into consideration whether or not those articles will be useful in one's own individual kitchen, for oftentimes a convenience for one proves a burden to another, on account of the difference in space accomodation. Most conveniences are usually luxuries, and are often too expensive. We here offer a few inexpensive suggestions which can be made at home: The kitchen, where mother and daughters spend so much time, should by all means have first consideration, as to conveniences and means of making work easy. As to the size of the kitchen there is a great difference of opinion; some prefer the roomy and somewhat spacious room, feeling free in the execution of labor, while the majority of housewives prefer the small and compact compartment, as all its contents are brought close together and many steps are saved in the preparation of meals, or the thing latest keeping of the kitchen in order. The buffet kitchen is the in houses. Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe of Logan has published in the A. C. Bulletin an example of real kitchen convenience, as well a.^ compactness in the arrangement of the same: a table (home made, if necessary) at the left of the kitchen sink, and as large as the space will admit is indispensable in saving steps in the kitchen; have this overlap the sink and cover with zinc, which will not rust. Turn up the zinc over a molding around the side 'of the table, so that the water will drain back from it into the latter; above the table have two or three enclosed shelves to hold the most used articles in the preparation of the meals; thus they are always in sight and ready for use. It is advisable to transfer all foods purchased loose, or in bags, to glass or tin jars labeled and kept for this special purpose, such as rice, cornmeal, salt, pepper, sugar, etc. Insert hooks on the under side of lower shelf to hold measuring cups, spoons, meat fork, and in fact articles used in preparing the meals. Above the sink have a dish rack made of hard wood, cut into strips about 1½ inches thick and 1 inch wide. Make four braces of same material, about six inches HOME DEPARTMENT. 365 on top of brace and ten inches at bottom, nail these about twelve inches apart, cut slits into the top of brace one inch apart into which put the strips of wood, thus forming shelves with one inch space between the strips of wood, into which dishes can be placed for drying, and thus save many hours of dish drying. Nail the four braces to the wall, being sure that the slits are exactly opposite each other at both ends of the shelf, so the strips will fit firm and close, if the space above the sink is very wide, it would be well to tack the strips into the center with invisible nails and blocks of wood one inch wide, it prevents them from spreading and allowing the plates, saucers, etc., from slipping between and dropping down into the sink. Use plenty of clean, hot dish water, put your dishes to drain in this rack, save yourselves hours of dish wiping and using of dish towels. A Prince of Ur. By Homespun. Abram said nothing for a few moments. Then, "Did you say that the Patesi Terah is ignorant concerning this matter?" Mardan nodded carelessly. His posture and his studied expression was the very acme of careless indifference. But his eyes narrowed with anxious watching of his companion's face. "Have you those usury tables with you now Mardan?" asked Abram with quiet seriousness. Mardan could not divine his kinsman's purpose. But he answered still with studied indifference: "Yes, I have them in my possession. See, here they are." Mardan drew out three tables of the usual size from the bosom of his robe, and with a slight smile he placed them in the waiting hand of Abram. Abram took them — broke off the clay envelope, tossed the outer envelopes into the river, and with great care he studied the three tables in his hand. Finally, after a long pause, he said, "Will you leave this matter with me, Mardan? I will give it my earnest attention." Mardan consented, for his whole purpose was to win over his kinsman's good will and acquiescence in the plundering scheme he had devised so skillfully. For without Abram's connivance, or his grandfather's signature, the usury tables would not be honored by Azzi-jaami or any other reliable palace steward. "That child is a favorite of thine, I see, my kinsman," said 366 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Mardan, as he settled himself once more amongst Abram's cushions. 'Twas thus he sought to relieve an awkward moment. "Yes," replied the prince cordially, "The little one has followed me around since I returned two days since. I love the little ones, and as this child has been almost deserted by his forgetful mother, I have permitted him to be with me much." "This is the only child of that last wench of Azzi-jaami's, is it not?" the eyes of the dissolute Mardan dropped carefully as he looked across at the child sleeping peacefully among the boat's cushions. "He is her only son and child," replied Abram softly, rising as he spoke to lean cautiously over and adjust the cushions more comfortably under the shining little black poll. "Zillah is qualifying herself for one of the priestesses of the great Assyrian religion," said Mardan softly, as if to test his companion's temper. "I am told that she hopes to be ready to become a candidate at the dedication of our new temple to Pharoah-Meredach, this three days hence." The face of Abram clouded instantly. "What foul aspersions are you seeking to cast upon the character of one of our own household? Say you not such things to Terah, or you may repent even the speech." "Thou art not wise, Abram. Do you not perceive that even our prudent Patesi Terah hath dropped his narrow, hide-bound views about the one and only antiquated God of the Sons of Adam, and he is himself no small believer in the many and wondrous gods which he fashions out of bronze and gold and stone for these cultured Chaldeans. Abram, why quibble and query concerning the way of heaven? If men are sincere and worship a god in some form, no matter what, why be so narrow and provincial as to deny others the right of intellectual choice? This world belongs as much to one as to another. You and I can readily see the germ of truth in every known form of religion. But why in the name of Merodach shall we care which road we take to heaven? All roads will lead there, if God's children only worship Him in some form or another. My father Nimrod hath subdued and conquered this whole Chaldean and Assyrian country, by the might of his gigantic prowess and his powerful leadership. He has inherited the priesthood of his father's priesthood and wears the robes of priesthood handed down from Adam at times — to Seth, so to Noah, to Ham and now to Nimrod. Why shall you rise up and challenge his right of leadership?" Abram looked like a far mountain peak around which the slow clouds of a gathering storm are circling with silent fury. But he kept himself well in hand as he replied to this specious reasoning: "Is it possible Mardan, that you can give yourself to these A PRINCE OF UR. 367 vapid and meaningless explanations of a most palpable religious fraud? You know, for you were rightly taught, as I was, by Grandfather Shem, that there is but one God in the heavens above or in the earth beneath; and he is a jealous God, who will brook no divided worship of his children. You know, or should, that there is but one way, one path, one straight and narrow road to heaven; and alas, who is walking therein in this corrupt and godless world about us? And how can you, a son of the house of Noah, speak calmly of the vile worship of the moon, practiced in this wicked city. How my heart has burned with indignation as I have seen the towers of that godless, idolatrous temple to the goddess Ishtar or Kohrah reared in this beautiful city, during the past years. It is monstrous! And you speak of thy father Nimrod's priesthood. How can you mention such a thing when you know that his father's father Ham stole the robe and the sacred garments from our fore-father's Noah's body as he lay asleep after his first great feast of worship when coming down from the Ark on the mountains of Ararat. It is he that has also stolen and corrupted the ceremonies of the temples, degrading them by introducing all the apostate forms of idol worship known to the sons of Cain. It is Nimrod that has set himself up as a god, and his poor fawning subjects whine at his feet with sickening worship. Even as if that were not enough, he is now trying to introduce into this hitherto free land the vile barbarity practiced by the Egyptians and the Accadian races about us. And I verily believe that thou — Mardan, his son — art aiding him in this awful practice of human sacrifice!" "And do you not believe in human sacrifice?" the question was asked in so simple, so innocent a way that Abram looked sharply at his distant kinsman in the gathering dusk as if to fathom the sources of his strange question. "Believe in human sacrifice?" Abram asked with deep incredulity. "What sayest thou? Do I believe in the most monstrous, degrading, loathsome superstition known to man? How can you, a son of the house of Noah ask such a question?" "Not so fast, my beloved Abram. What about the coming great Human and Divine Sacrifice? Is there not to be some Divine One who will be offered up as a sacrifice for all?" "Aye, there is to come One such God — man, glorious in His Person, the very begotten Son of God!" Abram's answer was breathed slowly and with the reverent tones of the deepest, most profound devotion. But Mardan still smiled with sly derision. "Then why all this talk and violent opposition? If it be good to offer up one Man, and he the Son of God, why not two men or any number of men, if man so pleases, and he can win the approbation of the gods thereby?" "Mardan, your talk astounds me beyond power of speech. 368 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Why should we not offer human sacrifice? Because God has said that the life of all men is in His own hands. He giveth life and He only can take life. Man that sheddeth blood, by man shall his blood be shed." "Shall not the officer of the law take life when so commanded. Then why not the priest, when so commanded? If a man gives his life because he hath committed sin, why not give his life to prevent others from committing sin?" "Mardan, thou talkest like thou wert thyself a priest of Chaldea. It is thus they silence the voice of God within their own souls and make out to kill the very sources of inspiration and goodness within themselves. If thou wouldst have answer, look upon the seething corruption, the mass of festering humanity which welters in this and other cities of the world today, and find if you can a single man or woman who is not tainted with the seeds of decay and vile rottenness from the results of their sins. The women of the higher classes have long since ceased to bear children. The children of the poor and degraded come up to seize the reins of power and place. Race suicide is as common as it is acceptable. My father's household alone, and that through their long years of godly teachings, have kept themselves pure and unspotted from the sins of this world. Only the few of us who worship Jehovah are willing to keep ourselves clean from the contaminating influences of the luxurious sins about us. Let us cease this painful discourse, Mardan! I cannot believe, profligate though thou art, that thou hast sold thyself outright to the devil." Mardan saw that his kinsman was full of smoldering wrath. He dreaded an outburst of that rare anger as he dreaded nothing else in the world. So he merely stooped and with a light laugh, began trailing his white and well kept hands in the blue waters of the slowly-moving river, while he sang a temple hymn to Merodach that was quaint and charming enough, but which was addressed to the Lord of the Alabaster House, the god of Ur — Merodach — Nimrod — and the boatmen joined in with its flowing musical phrases as it was the most popular of all the many hymnals sung to Merodach. But as the beautiful words were also susceptible of interpretation as a hymn to God, Abram. and Terah before him, always allowed it to be sung in their presence. Just now, it irritated Abram like a whip of scorpions: LORD OF THE ALABASTER HOUSE. Father mine, of life the giver, cherishing all, beholding all. Lord, whose power benign extends over all in heaven and earth Thou drawest forth from heaven the seasons and the rain: Thou watchest life and yieldest showers. A PRINCE OF UR. 369 Who in heaven is high exalted? Thou, sublime in thy reign. Who on earth? Thou, sublime in thy reign. Thou revealest thy will in heaven, and celestial spirits praise thee, Thou revealest thy will below, and subduest the spirits of earth, Thy will shines in heaven like the radiant light; On earth thy deeds declare it to me. Thou, thy will, who knoweth? With what can man compare it? Lord, in heaven and earth, thou Lord of gods, none equals thee. The baby had opened its eyes with the first sound of the music and had held out its arms to Abram. But for once he was not attending. The storm that had been gathering all that eventful ride was now upon him. As the hymnal floated off into silence, Abram burst forth: "Why do I hate idolatry? And why is human sacrifice the vilest and the wickedest of all human sins? The worship of God brings virtue, peace, light, holiness and happiness. While idolatry always brings darkness and evil in its train? Look at the fruits of idol worship. Vile men, clad in purple and silken embroideries go raving about the streets of Ur as they do at Ninevah, seeking ever for fresh excitement, new pleasures. Nameless sins mark the rituals of the black art devotees who practice their secret abomination, not only in the temple fanes during the dark of the moon, but also in other secret chambers in private houses. The money of the nation is held by the few rich men who crush and grind the faces of the poor with their cruel exactions. Women, clothed upon with the cloak of hypocrisy envesture themselves as priestesses of the goddess of the moon, and they go out boldly in the faint new moonlight of the young moon, and sit on the so-called sacred pavement for viler priests, or the dissolute and riotous noblemen of the city to beckon to them and then their fate is sealed, their virtue is forever despoiled. Not only do these misguided maidens lose their all in thus parting with the pearl of great price, but they get in return an inheritance of disease and sin which goes chasing them down to the last generation of their children, if they are so cursed as to become mothers. The temples, built with so much toil and treasure, house beneath their spacious corridors the priests who rob every priestess of virtue, spoil every devotee of money, and finally hoodwink the very princes and patesi of the kingdom with their vile sorceries and witchcraft. Instead of faith, we have the basest of superstition. Instead of virtue we have the wildest lasciviousness. Instead of the sweet comforts of home and the upbringing of little children, we have the whirling dervishes of a worship that parades before the very heavens as the most stupendous apostasy that has been upon the earth since the days when God blotted out all men by the waters of His flood. 370 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. O, my soul is sick, and thou!" Suddenly Abram rose, while the slender boat tottered on the rippling waters with his sudden movement. Mardan cowered in his cushions. "Thou who namest these things as evidences of culture, refinement, liberty of conscience!" "And thou!" Abram's brow was wreathed with the thunders of heaven, his voice was as the Assyrian lion and his eyes flashed like the forked lightnings. "I believe that thou art the cause of much of the apostasy in our father's household. If I thought that thou hadst linked thyself with these hell-hounds of rotting priests, to bring about the destruction of the daughters of Azzi Jami, I would myself grind thee to powder. Thou miserable poltroon and murderer." It was well for them both that the rocking of the boat hindered any further demonstration. As Abram stood up the child uttered a shrill cry trying to leap to Abram's side; instead he fell overboard. In the confusion that followed his being hauled out, the bitter conversation was ended between the kinsmen. But Mardan would never forget, nor would Abram. As Abram drew the little one into the boat, regardless of its wet garments, he bent soothingly above the trembling little body and bade the oarsmen make straight for the shore. Abram had discovered another evidence of Mardan's treachery and corruption, while Mardan knew once and forever that his elder kinsman was as incorruptible as the pillars of heaven. Abram turned his face to the palace gates directing a slave to carry the child to the palace; the little naked body now wrapped in his own abaya. Abraham took his way towards the City of Ur. (to be continued) NO ENEMIES. "You have no enemies; alas, my friend, the boast is poor. He who has mingled in the fray of duty that the brave endure, Must have made foes. If you have none, small is the work that you have done; You've hit no traitor on the hip; You've dashed no cup from the perjured lip; You've never turned the wrong to right; You've been a coward in the fight. You have no enemies." — Selected. Current Topics. Denmark has granted the elective franchise to women. Thus the disenfranchisement of humankind, female as well as male, go on in governmental affairs. The United States is not likely to become involved in war with any other nation at the present time; but the constantly recurring internal disturbances in various states do not augur so well for the safety of the nation generally. In Utah, the month of June has become quite as notable for its June festivals in honor of the "Old Folks," or those persons above seventy years of age, as it is for weddings the civilized world over; and these festivals are not less the harbingers of joy and love among the people, young and old. It is officially announced that the Swiss army of 250,000 men was mobilized in one week after the European war began, which was better than either France or Great Britain did. This incident is one among many which go to show that neither France nor Great Britain were prepared for the war, hence did not inaugurate it. California has had another severe earthquake, this one expending its central force in the Imperial Valley, a rich agricultural section of Southern California which is being opened up by an extensive government irrigation project. Several lives and hundreds of thousands of dollars in property were lost, the irrigation works marvelously escaping destruction. Whatever else the M. I. A. contests connected with the June conferences of the young people among the Latter-day Saints may develop, they portray beyond dispute a high order of educational and intellectual development that augurs well for the Mutual Improvement cause in the years to come. The Zionist movement that is, to repopulate Palestine with the Jews, in the United States, has received marked impetus the past two months, owing to the European war. It is urged that at the close of the war there will be a keen competition for Palestine, and that the logical disposition of that country would be to assign it to the Jews. Thus do coming events cast their shadows before. The Associated Press dispatches carried to all parts of the United States the astonishing news that Baby Sayre, President 372 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Woodrow Wilson's youngest grandchild, had cried several times in one night in the same house where "Grandpa" slept, but had not disturbed him seriously. Why should he be hurt with one baby's crying, one night only? Hasn't he reared three girls, each of whom out-figured Baby Sayre up to date with "echoes of the night?" More than a million women in Great Britain have petitioned the government to intern the thousands of Germans now at liberty in that country. It is not unlikely that the women will have their request granted, since Great Britain, being the most democratic of the European powers, is the only one of the belligerent nations which has not interned or expelled most of the citizens of hostile countries within its borders. By an elaborate system of referendum, the United States Chamber of Commerce at Washington has ascertained that the country at large is overwhelmingly opposed to the ship-purchase plan proposed by the administration during the last Congress. It thus appears that Utah's congressional delegation, which unitedly opposed the bill, was in harmony with the general American sentiment, and not opposed to it, as many of their political opponents would have had the people believe when the bill was being voted on. Japan has ordered that the teaching of religion in the schools of Korea be estopped, and gives as an argument in favor of its new method that the United States and France have found success in general education by "separating wisdom and religion." It may be made to appear so to the Japanese mind, but the cleaner and more enlightened sentiment of this country discerns dismal failure to the social fabric in "separating wisdom and religion" in the training of the youth. The exhibition of the Liberty Bell to the children of Salt Lake City and vicinity at the only convenient time, namely, on Sunday morning, July 11, aroused a protest from some ministers because, forsooth, it interfered with the sessions of the Sabbath schools. By the way, wasn't the heaven-inspired institution of this great government for the religious as well as the political freedom of millions of people the basis of a valuable Sunday lesson, instead of a protest? Rightly applied by Sabbath school teachers, the notable presence of the historic relic which more than all others of its class is a reminder of that heaven-inspired event, and which impresses the child-mind with the thought conveyed in the quotation from the Bible inscribed on the bell itself: "Proclaim liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof" — is a theme for more than one effective Sunday school lesson to Christian children. Notes from the Field. The stake conferences this year have been a real joy to all concerned. The General Board has been able to send representatives to all the stakes so far scheduled, notwithstanding the fact that on some of the dates there have been as many as six conferences held simultaneously, ranging in distance from Canada to Arizona. The response from the stakes has been whole-souled in every way, great interest being manifested in all lines of Relief Society work, and especially along spiritual lines, including the testimony meetings. The officers' meetings have been better attended than ever before, and this is most gratifying. Certainly no wide-awake officer will ever feel that she can possibly afford to miss these important meetings. In many of the stakes, splendid class work is being done. Teachers have been selected, who are thoroughly qualified to direct the study, and their efforts are bringing gratifying results. The following new stakes have been organized within the last three months: Curlew, Raft River, North Davis, and South Davis. Curlew Stake was made up of portions of Malad and Box Elder Stakes; and Raft River is taken from Cassia Stake; and the old Davis Stake was divided into two parts forming the northern and southern divisions. The President of the Curlew Stake is Mrs. Mary E. Bennett of Malad, Idaho, while that of Raft River is Mrs. Lucy Eames, Almo, Idaho. Reports of the new officers of the Davis Stakes have not yet been received. A reorganization of the stake Relief Society in Star Valley took place at the recent quarterly conference, held in Afton, Wyoming, on June 26th and 27th. The visitors at this conference were Elder Rudger Clawson, President Rulon S. Wells, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, and Mrs. Janette A. Hyde. Because of continued illness in her family, and because of her inability, therefore, to attend to the work of the Society properly, Mrs. Sarah Ann Burton asked to be released from the office of stake president. Her excellent service and pure devotion have left a lasting impress on that stake Relief Society. The new stake officers were sustained as follows: President, Martha E. Roberts; Counselors, Susan Cazier, Kitty Burton; Secretary, Artemesia D. Call; Treasurer, Sedonia Roberts; Chorister, Allison M. Hale; Organist, Mary R. Yeaman. Stake Board: Johanna Cook, Elizabeth Linford, Sarah A. Hurd, Lena Jenkins, Helen Wilson, Elizabeth Turner, Sarah Isabel Call, Ruth Raney, Elizabeth Moser, Christena Holling, Martha Barrus, Angela Rich, Clary Harrison, Artemesia D. Call, and Florence Lee. 374 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The General Board of the Relief Society is arranging for a new set of books for record work. These books will be ready for distribution before the end of the year, and by January 1, 1916, we shall hope to see them adopted and in use in every ward in the Church. These books will be arranged to take care of all the information required for our yearly report, and will obviate much of the trouble experienced last year by Secretaries, in compiling these yearly reports. Meanwhile the secretaries should preserve their present records in permanent books, as there will be no place in the new books for back minutes. If It Could Be. By Bertha A. Kleinman. If it could be that you and I Could look into the years, And you could know my tests to be And I know all your tears — I wonder, should we speed our ways, To heal, nor wonder how To lay some selfish joy aside? Or should we smile and hurry by And both forget, as now? If I could look into your eyes, With powers to divine, And there behold your soul's great need, And you could fathom mine — I wonder, should we search our hearts For words of life to say, Or should our world of narrow cares Blot out each other from our prayers, And fill our every day? O we who mean our ways so well, But breathe our prayers too late, For those whose hearts beat close to ours, Who thirst and trust and wait — What will the even-tide return, What holds its hush for me, Whose faith is voiced for me and mine, For you and yours, no time, no time — What will His answer be? MESA, ARIZONA. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto — Charity Never Faileth. THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Rebecca Nibley Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. II. AUGUST, 1915. No. 8. Death Hath Her Victories. Two young soldiers of Christ, both girded with the armor of the true faith, whose feet were shod with the preparation of peace, and who set out valiantly to face the suns of yesterdays, have met the white angel of Mortal Change, and have triumphed. One was dauntless in his manly courage, and his fine quality of virile persistence. The other was notable for his patient association with daily sorrow and affliction. One chose the science of the physical issues of life and death for his purpose in life; the other sought his daily bread in easy avenues, lest death might catch him unaware. Both lived and loved and wrought as youth may gallantly strive. And both were loved ? ah, how dearly they were loved. For both were very lovable. Each won his hosts of friends, for each deserved that much of life's sweet compensations. Pure, true, upright, brilliant, and able, these two were well born sons. Upon the lintels of their door-posts, both parents had cast the bitter hyssop dipped in the blood of their daily sacrifice. And, therefore, were they unafraid. When suddenly the door of death was opened, and the white angel of Change came forth, Gerald knew that angel well. He 376 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. had walked beside his noiseless feet, lo, these many days. Fearlessly, he had faced his daily grapple, and that high courage conceived by constant pain, borne uncomplainingly, had given him power to face his messenger in peace. David looked with startled, instant comprehension, for he, too, had often