Vol. II JANUARY, 1915 No. 1 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS ROOM 29. BISHOPS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH $1.00 a Year— Single Copy 10c WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO. NEWS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY OUR DRUG STORE IS COMPLETE PRICES RIGHT We Solicit Your Patronage Prompt Attention to Mail Orders TRY OUR QUICK LUNCH— IT'S DELICIOUS FRESH FLOWERS DAILY The Xmas Store for Men and Boys Choose now while assortments are most complete. Best possible values, of course. UTAH'S GREATEST CLOTHING STORE GARDNER & ADAMS CO. IN THE KEARNS BUILDING We give and redeem Security Vouchers Marion Banks FINE MILLINERY Charlton's HOLIDAY SPECIAL On Our Smart Line of at reasonable Prices SUITS, GOWNS AND WAISTS Have you seen our new handkerchiefs and neckwear? This ad. will redeem 10 percent. on purchases at regular price. 242 SOUTH MAIN STREET GOODWIN CORSETS CULLEN HOTEL SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH FREE AUTO BUS MEETS ALL TRAINS Fred J. Leonard, Manager RATES One person $1.00 per day One person with bath $1.50 per day Two persons $1.50 per day Two persons with bath $2.50 per day WE DO NOT RAISE OUR RATES DURING CONFERENCE 

The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 
CONTENTS. JANUARY, 1915. 
Joseph Smith, the Prophet Frontispiece Greetings and Sentiments 3 
"Peace on Earth, Good Will to Men" President Joseph F. Smith 13 
The Relief Society 20 
Clothing for the Woman Past Forty The Two Sarahs 22 
Genealogy 23 
Home Gardening for Women Janette A. Hyde 24 
Notes from the Field 25 
A Prince of Ur Homespun 27 
Current Topics James H. Anderson 35 
Editorial 37 Guide Lessons 37 
ADVERTISERS DIRECTORY. Patronize those who have made it possible for this paper to exist. 
AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. 
AMERICAN THEATER BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City. CO-OP. 
FURNITURE, 35 South Main St., Salt Lake City. 
CULLEN HOTEL. CUTLER'S 36 S. Main Street, Salt Lake City. 
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 S. Main, Salt Lake City. 
DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, 8 Main Street, Salt Lake City. 
GARDNER ADAMS. JENSEN CREAMERY COMPANY, Salt Lake. 
KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main, 260 State Sts., Salt Lake City. 
McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City. 
MARIAN BANKS, Millinery, and CHARLTON'S SUIT & CLOAK CO., 321 
OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD. 
RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. South Main, Salt Lake City. 
SCRACE'S BAKERY, 25 S. Main, Salt Lake City. 
S. M. TAYLOR & CO., UNDERTAKERS, 251-259 E. First South Street, Salt Lake City. 
THOMAS, Photographer. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City. 
WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. 
RELIEF SOCIETY HEADQUARTERS For Approved Garments and Ladies' Utah Made Dress Goods Postage Prepaid, and Samples Sent on Request CUTLER'S, 36 Main Street Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 
S. M. TAYLOR & CO. UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS SUCCESSORS TO JOSEPH E. TAYLOR The Pioneer Undertaker of the West 53 years in one location 251-253-255-257 EAST FIRST SOUTH ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH EFFICIENT SERVICE MODERN METHODS COMPLETE EQUIPMENT 
THE BIGGEST PERMANENT THEATRICAL FEATURE IN THE WEST— THE AMERICAN THEATRE CONCERT ORCHESTRA Under direction of PROF. J. J. McCLELLAN The finest pictures and the best music combine to make a wonderful entertainment for the money. 

What are We Doing? Cordially inscribed to the Officers and Members of the various branches of our Relief Society, by Utah's first woman editor, L. Lula Greene Richards. While we seek amity, earth's worst calamity, War's wildest horrors are forced on the view. Safe in this favored land 'neath God's protecting hand, What are we doing, and what should we do? First, with tongues guarded well, cease idle thoughts to tell, Speak with a purpose and say what is true; Lift not a hand in vain while the world throbs in pain; Ours to relieve and bless, thus must we do. When first our "Exponent," as error's opponent, Sailed forth, a venture, it flourished and grew; Brave for the Truth and staunch, still other boats we launch. Much have we done and yet more must we do. More clearly discerning each critical turning, Pointing out ways that are wise to pursue; Repenting, forgiving, unselfishly living, Loving and serving in all that we do. Wives, daughters and mothers, all working for others, The Priesthood's broad measures we help carry through; We aid in redeeming our dead, not in seeming; In truth, Christ hath left us this portion to do. While our prayers never cease for the blest reign of Peace, Praise and thanksgiving we offer anew For our Community, strong in its Unity. These are some things we are learning to do. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER, 1914. From the painting by Lewis A. Ramsey. Joseph Smith, the Prophet. Born Dec. 23, 1805. Martyred June 27, 1844. 

THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. II. JANUARY, 1915. No. 1. 

Greetings and Sentiments

President Emmeline B. Wells and the General Board are exceedingly grateful and happy to open this magazine and this year with the greetings of our beloved President Joseph F. Smith, who is the son of our martyred honored Patriarch, Hyrum Smith, and the nephew of the adored Prophet, Joseph Smith. President Smith and wife Julina L. Smith, accompanied by President Charles W. Penrose and Dr. Romania B. Penrose, Bishop C. W. Nibley and Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley, Apostles Geo. A. Smith and Joseph F. Smith, Jr., with Miss Emily Smith, daughter of the President, have been on a profitable trip to Independence, Jackson Co., Missouri, to Florida, El Paso and Los Angeles. It is from there that the following telegram came to President E. B. Wells:

Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, Ocean Park, Cal., Dec. 5, 1914. General Board of the Relief Society: Accept my sincere congratulations and heartiest greetings in honor of the birth of the Relief Society Magazine. May it enter upon its noble mission so firmly entrenched about by the bulwarks of worthy and capable endeavor and enduring truth that its career may be successful and glorious. Joseph F. Smith.

4 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

From the General Board of the Relief Society.

SYMPATHY.

And if some sympathy we can bestow, Because we've felt the agony of pain; Then let us minister while here below — The little time that we may yet remain; And strive to make some recompense to heaven, For the few talents to our keeping given.

Let us cherish sympathy, for it is the incentive and inspiration to every noble and generous deed. The three graces — Charity, Hope, and Faith — all are actuated by the force of sympathy. It is sympathy with the great Master's teachings which produces faith in him and radiates hope in the soul; it is sympathy with the sufferings and sorrows of humanity which prompts the tender words and opens the heart to give of those things which make for peace and happiness. There could be no pleasure in life were it not for sympathy, for form, sound and color make their appeal to the heart, and the sympathetic chord responds, producing that harmony which alone gives joy and delight. It is the sympathetic response in the soul that warms to the glow of the sunshine, and saddens to the gloom of the shadow — making life, richer, and deeper, and better with the years' ebb and flow. Sympathetic expression is the beautiful gift of some people, but ofttimes the tender handclasp, the silent embrace, or the gentle kiss, speak more than words to those in sorrow and express the love of an overflowing heart. True sympathy is self-forgetfulness and the most perfect expression of love. It is the slender tendril which twines itself among the graces of the soul, binding and cementing friendship and human ties throughout all time. Love withheld brings vain regrets, whilst love bestowed brings sweet content. Emmeline B. Wells.

Our Savior's teachings tell us that the Spirit of Charity should direct our labors among our fellow men, and St. Paul emphasized the sentiment when he said, "Charity beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, and endureth all things." and he further wrote that if we have not charity we are as nothing. When the Prophet Joseph Smith gave the great mission of love and charity to women, and instructed them to feed the poor and unfortunate, to comfort the sick and the afflicted, he manifested the same spirit as expressed by our Savior and the prophets. Thus he opened the way for women to exercise the motherly instincts inherent in them. Clarissa S. Williams.

A woman who would make a success of her life must endeavor to make her home an altar of peace, love and companionship. Her husband should rest confident in her gentle solicitude, and her children trust in her unfailing wisdom. Such an ideal does not imply wealth, education nor brilliant gifts. Faith, affection, fidelity, industry, and above all, integrity, constitute the requirements for such a happy woman's life and success. Julina L. Smith.

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

Charity does more than give to the needy, — it sympathizes with those in distress, comforts those who mourn, forgives those who do wrong; charity seeks to build up rather than to tear down character; it refrains from unkind or unfair criticism. It helps those who are weak to rise and then assists in sustaining them. "Though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing." Amy Brown Lyman.

Let me be true to the counsel of my husband, loyal to my bishop, obedient to the Prophet of the Lord, and quick to take their counsel or reproof, and I shall be safe and at peace, though the heavens fall, and the earth rolls up as a scroll. Susa Young Gates.

Let us be so thankful for all that makes life happy and comfortable for us, that it will be our constant desire to extend to others a helping hand, remembering always that in the opportunity of being of service to others, we are really the favored ones. Emma A. Empey.

It is an age of obedient parents; and so, at the command of my children, I lay down my book and close my eyes to rest them — until I am alone. Then I will reopen my Bible, the dearest of my book friends, and read again. If I had had the advantages, fifty years ago, that the young people have today, I might have amounted to something. Sarah Jenne Cannon.

GREETINGS AND SENTIMENTS.

The building up of the Kingdom of God should be first in our hearts. The Lord works on earth through the medium of his sons and daughters. We are all his children in our spiritual part. "Charity never faileth," and, as members of the Relief Society in true charity work, we labor for him and he rewards us by giving us blessings and leading us by his Holy Spirit. Relief Society work is vast, extending to the ends of the earth, and only by united and continuous effort can it be accomplished. It is not in the giving of alms alone, as we learn from Paul, (I. Corinthians, chap 13) but to comfort and strengthen spiritually, to encourage the weak to greater faith and hope and to be charitable to the shortcomings of others. The Relief Society demands that we be humble, faithful, and true. Dr. Romania B. Penrose.

Love covers a multitude of sins. When a scar cannot be taken away, the next kind office is to hide it. Love is like the painter who, drawing the picture of a friend having a blemish in one eye, would picture only the other side of his face. It is a noble and great thing to cover the blemishes and to excuse the failings of a friend; to draw a curtain before his stains, and to display his perfections; to bury his weakness in silence, but to proclaim his virtues on the house-tops. "Any heart turned toward God feels more joy in one short hour of prayer, than ever was experienced in all the feasts on earth since its foundation. "In the morning, prayer is the key that opens to us the treasure of God's mercies and blessings; in the evening, it is the key that shuts us up under his protection and care." Emily S. Richards.

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

We, as the children of one great Eternal Parent, in this big world of ours, are cemented by a bond of common interest, a tie of universal love, — if we cultivate our affections unselfishly, if we follow the teachings of our Savior, "Do unto others as we wish to be done by." For as every star in the firmament tends to light up the heavens by night, so will each good deed, noble life, and worthy thought of our Latter-day Saint women assist in brightening, bettering, and glorifying the name of our Heavenly Father's people, for such we profess to be. Julia P. M. Farnsworth.

"Charity never faileth." Phebe Y. Beatie.

"God thought to give the sweetest thing In His almighty power, To earth, and deeply pondering What it should be — one hour In fondest joy and love of heart Outweighing every other, He moved the gates of Heaven apart, And gave to earth — a mother." Ida Dusenberry.

GREETINGS AND SENTIMENTS.

TO MY SISTER. WITH LOVE, WHEREVER SHE MAY BE.

When all my prayers and dreams come true, This is the sketch I'd make of you: A chastened soul, of modest mien, (Akin to many I have seen;) A gentlewoman, filled with trust In one Great Father, kind as just; A vested Faith which bade her see The glorious "Truth that made her free." Until by perfect works she shows The "better part" that Mary chose. Thorny the road ofttimes and drear, But strong her purpose — her vision clear; Her star with kindled light leads on (Would I were steadfast thus till Dawn). Lord, help me, by Thy grace divine, To follow close this sister mine, For soon, aye, very soon, 'twill be Not Time but vast Eternity. Carrie S. Thomas.

Motherhood is the culmination of mortal joy. Alice Merrill Home.

10 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

It has been said that charity should begin at home, and so it should; but sometimes we let the charity at home wait, to help those who seem more in need. We often forget ourselves, in looking after others; and now, when the cry comes from afar, and we know that our brothers and sisters are in great distress, we are likely to put our home charity off. Let us try to divide our bounty. We have many here who need our thoughts and help; many right here are suffering from the effects of the war. They are not in it, but labor in many places has been stopped, and men and women have been thrown out of employment, and must be taken care of. So let us, while thinking of those in the countries where war is raging, not forget those who have been made to suffer by the effects of the war. And so, we must think of charity at home, and not forget that God is the ruler over all. Priscilla P. Jennings.

Save the children. It is easier to maintain them in health than to heal them from sickness. It is easier to train them in righteousness than to reclaim them from evil. But never despair. With the help of Heavenly Father, the most desperate cases of sin or sickness may be cured. Elisabeth S. Wilcox.

To one at peace be must with God and seek consistently and constantly for the spirit of inspiration and truth. This, coupled with obedience to the Priesthood, will provide the best of working rules for the members and officers of the Relief Society. Rebecca Neibaur Nibley.

GREETINGS AND SENTIMENTS.

11 That we may be true to God, kind and merciful to each other, and that we may learn by the trials we pass through, the patience, wisdom, and forbearance which will make Latter-day Saints of us, is the sincere wish of your humble servant. Elisabeth C. McCune.

Alma 37:36-37: "Yea, and cry unto God for all thy support; yea, let all thy doings be unto the Lord, and whithersoever thou goest, let it be in the Lord; yea, let thy thoughts be directed unto the Lord; yea, let the affections of thy heart be placed upon the Lord forever. "Counsel the Lord in all thy doings, and he will direct thee for good; yea, when thou liest down at night, lie down unto the Lord, that he may watch over you in your sleep; and when thou risest in the morning, let thy heart be full of thanks unto God; and if ye do these things, ye shall be lifted up at the last day." Edna May Davis.

"O ye that embark in the service of God, see that you serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day."— (Doctrine and Covenants.) Sarah E. McLelland.

To think right, is to live right. If our thoughts are pure and uplifting, so will our actions be. Carlyle says: "Thoughts once awakened do not slumber." How necessary, then, it is for us not to entertain unwise or evil thoughts, but to encourage such only as will enable us to lead noble lives. Elisabeth Carrie Crismon.

12 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

Ingratitude is the supreme moral crime of the present age. Would that in the catalogue of listed prizes for improved conditions, morally, spiritually, socially and physically, we would offer an exceptional prize to those manifesting the most pronounced evidence of real gratitude. Janette A. Hyde.

Our Magazine, "A Gift from God." What is its mission? To draw from the Well of Eternal Life, the best it has to give, and send it forth into your life and mine, opening our understanding to the larger life of perfect service in our Father's Kingdom. Sarah Eddington.

The art committee of the General Board of the Relief Society have designed a stamp which is to be the seal of this Society. For this year, lack of time will prevent its use except upon postal cards for Christmas. The design represents the Rock of Revelation on the right of the picture, with a woman standing on the rock, holding a sheaf of wheat in her hands. Over her head shines the Star of Bethlehem. At the foot of the Rock are grouped a feeble old man, and a woman with little children about her knees. These are the helpless and needy ones symbolized thus who reach out to the extended hands of the symbolized figure on the Rock of Revelation, pleading for help. The stamp is all in symbol. It was painted in color by Miss Lillian B. Connelly, and is considered an excellent piece of work. The seal necessarily will be done only in photographic light and shade, but we suggest to our friends and sisters who wish to purchase Christmas postal cards to send away, that this will form a very fine gift, and will also spread the good news of our work abroad. The cards cost five cents each, and are on sale at Z. C. M. I., the Bureau of Information, and Hotel Utah. Any stake desiring these cards either for Christmas cards or for ordinary purposes, can secure them by mail, by addressing Mrs. Emma A. Empey, 180 East South Temple, Salt Lake City.

"Peace on Earth, Good Will to Men."

Remarks by President Joseph F. Smith at Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1914.

My dear sisters: I am pleased to have the privilege of being present with you for a short time. I am not, however, prepared to speak to you upon any subject, and shall, therefore, have to depend entirely upon the promptings of the Spirit. We certainly live in troublesome times; and, notwithstanding the peace that pervades our own land, we are not without our troubles at home. And many of the troubles that we ourselves are having are very serious in their trend, and in the possible results that may come from them. And it is well enough for us to think a little about the troubles that pervade our own borders, as well as to mourn so very seriously over the preventable troubles that have come upon our neighbors. The troubles that come are very serious, sad, disastrous, cruel and wicked; no question about it. And there is, among us today, I am sorry to say, the germ of the spirit that has prompted, very largely, the conditions that exist in Europe today; internal unrest, dissatisfaction, discontent, internal contention over political, labor, and religious matters, and almost every subject that affects society at this time. And the very germ that has prompted the terrible results that we see in the nations of Europe, is at work among us here today. We need not forget it, nor ignore it, either. There is just one power, and one only, that can prevent war among the nations of the earth, and that is true religion and undefiled before God, the Father. Nothing else will accomplish it. In the early days of the Church, aye, before the Church was organized, God declared, through the Prophet Joseph Smith, the great principle that no religious organization then extant in the world was acknowledged by him. It is difficult to make people believe it. It is almost impossible to make even many of those who have embraced the gospel of Jesus Christ actually accept this great proposition. If it had been declared by man, men might have reason to doubt it. It is a very common expression today that there is good in all religions. So there is; but there is not sufficient good in the denominations of the world to prevent war, nor to prevent contention, strife, division and hatred of one another. And, put all the good doctrines in all the denominations of the world together, and they do not constitute sufficient good to prevent the evils that exist in the world. Why? Because the denominations lack the essential knowledge of God's revelation and truth, and the enjoyment of that spirit which comes from God that

14 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

leadeth unto all truth, and that inspires men to do good and not evil, to love and not to hate, to forgive and not to bear malice, to be kind and generous and not to be unkind and contracted. So, I repeat, there is but one remedy that can prevent men from going to war, when they feel disposed to do it, and that is the Spirit of God, which inspires to love, and not to hatred, which leads unto all truth, and not unto error, which inclines the children of God to pay deference to him and to his laws and to esteem them as above all other things in the world. The Lord has told us that these wars would come. We have not been ignorant that they were pending, and that they were likely to burst out upon the nations of the earth at any time. We have been looking for the fulfilment of the words of the Lord that they would come. Why? Because the Lord wanted it? No; not by any means. Was it because the Lord predestined it, or designed it, in any degree? No, not at all. Why? It was for the reason that men did not hearken unto the Lord God, and he foreknew the results that would follow, because of men, and because of the nations of the earth; and therefore he was able to predict what would befall them, and come upon them in consequence of their own acts, and not because he has willed it upon them, for they are but suffering and reaping the results of their own actions. I was reminded, while Sister Richards was speaking to us, of an experience that I had forty years ago. In 1874, I visited Continental Europe. Previous to that I had been in Great Britain, and I had the privilege of crossing the channel into Scandinavia, but never before had been among the continental nations. One of the things that forcibly attracted my attention, in my sojourn among the European people, was the manual labor thrust upon the women. One of the first sights that I saw was a woman hooked up with a dog, pulling a cart in the streets of one of the cities of Europe, and trying to make her living out of bartering watercress, or some sort of herbs, which she may have gathered where she could. And that was the condition of hundreds and hundreds of women in those great cities. And then I saw a woman and a donkey hitched up to the cart together, the woman on the one side and the donkey on the other, tramping through the streets of those cities, trying to make a living. And when we landed in the seaport town, the first I observed were women rowing the boats, women standing at the markets and at the tables, and women packing great baskets of fish upon their backs, and going up to the various markets to distribute them. And when we passed through the fields, we saw women making bricks, at the brick kilns — no men; and when we looked over the fields, we saw scarecrows scattered around among the fields to scare off ravenous birds, and every scarecrow in the fields

"PEACE ON EARTH, GOOD WILL TO MEN."

15 was dressed in women's clothes — not in men's. I remarked the other day to a boy who was born in Germany, and who came from there just recently, about these things which I had seen. "Oh," he said, "that is nothing; it is nothing for women in Germany to make their living; they are used to it. It is nothing for them to let the men go to war; they have had to provide for themselves before." When we reached the great centers of those countries, we discovered men dressed in military clothes. Those who were not on military duty, at the time, were sauntering about restaurants, saloons, gambling places and other places of ill repute, smoking their cigars, twirling their little canes in their hands, exploiting as gentlemen, while the women were doing the drudgery in the fields. I saw that forty years ago, with my own eyes, in Europe. Well, I pitied them then. And while I felt indignant at the world for the conditions that existed, I felt most indignant because the conditions which I saw there with my own eyes had been charged upon the women of Utah, while such things never existed in Utah at all. Those conditions continue, and will continue, I presume. Well now, my sisters, "peace on earth, and good will to men," is our slogan. That is our principle. That is the principle of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And while I think it is wrong, wickedly wrong, to force war upon any nation, or upon any people, I believe it is righteous and just for every people to defend their own lives and their own liberties, and their own homes, with the last drop of their blood. I believe it is right, and I believe that the Lord will sustain any people in defending their own liberty, to worship God according to the dictates of their conscience, any people trying to preserve their wives and their children from the ravages of war. But we do not want to be brought into the necessity of having to defend ourselves. We want to remain continually in the condition that existed here many years ago, when we were visited by an army, whose ostensible and manifest purpose was to destroy the leaders of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and break up the Church. President Young said to the boys who went out to defend us: "Don't shed blood. Be careful that you don't shed blood. Do everything in your power to prevent their coming. Harass them; take away their means of travel, if you can, but don't shed the blood of any man!" That was the doctrine that was taught by President Young to the Latter-day Saints, at that time. "And if you will be careful to observe this," he said, "you will be delivered, and God will fight your battles." And the Lord did it. And so I believe it will always be with the people of God. If the condition of the world appears to you as it does me, at the present time, it seems to me that you have within your hearts and minds one of the strongest evidences, that has ever been

16 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

brought to your understanding of the truth of the declaration which God gave to the world through Joseph Smith, that "they worship me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me; they teach for doctrines the precepts of men. They have a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof," and have it not. In Germany, at this time, Protestants and Catholics are praying to God for victory over their foes. In France and in England and in Russia and in Belgium, and in Austria, and in all the other countries that are at war with one another, they are praying, Protestants, Catholics together, for victory. The Allies are praying for victory, to the same God — supposed to be, for these are so called Christian nations, and they are members of the same churches, worshiping in the same forms of religion, and yet they are calling upon God one against another, to defend them against their enemies, and to strengthen their arms to destroy their foes. What does it prove? It proves what God said. They have not his Spirit; they have not his power to guide them. They are not in possession of his truth; and, therefore, the very conditions that exist are the results of this unbelief in the truth; and this worship of men and organizations and powers of men is divested of the power of God. Now, I did not expect to say anything about these questions, when I came. I rather came with the idea in my mind that I was going to speak to the Latter-day Saints, to the sisters, the mothers, and the daughters, of Zion, who are associated in this great and glorious latter-day work of "peace on earth and good will to men." — who are engaged in the work of charity, the work of human kindness, of love and forgiveness, people who are looking after the interests of mankind, and of the sex, and who are trying to build them up in righteousness, purity, faith, and in obedience to the laws of God; women who are engaged in a work, not only in administering temporal blessings and in temporal good and consolation to the children of men, but women who are engaged also in promulgating the pure principles of the gospel, the work of truth, to the children of men. And I believe that the Relief Societies of the Church were never in a better condition, than today. I feel encouraged, and I am delighted with the progress that is being made by the daughters and mothers of Zion. From the depth of my soul, I have but one desire toward all these good women, who are engaged in this noble cause, and that is, God bless them, preserve their lives, help them to be firm and true in their integrity to the cause of Zion; and help them to feel in their souls that there is nothing that ought to be put in advance of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and nothing else better than the Church beneath the celestial kingdom. The Church possesses God's power, righteousness, truth and divine authority, to do his will on the earth, in con-

"PEACE ON EARTH, GOOD WILL TO MEN."

17 tradistinction to all the man-made churches and institutions of the world. We have people amongst us, it is true, who will set up their ideas of purity against the doctrine of Christ, against the laws of the gospel of Christ, and against the interests of the kingdom of God. We have a few amongst us who will do it, who are guilty of this. Thank God they are not many, that they are so few, and I would that there were none of them amongst us. I congratulate our dear Aunt Em, the President of the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church. God has preserved her to a good old age. Not only has he preserved her health and her life, but he has preserved unto her her mentality, her mental powers and her activities, and I feel grateful for it, and I hope that she will continue to be preserved, and that she will continue to progress and help the cause of the Relief Society to progress in all that is good, and uplifting; and, above all other things, to help the people for whom she labors, and over whom she presides, and with whom she may have influence, and help the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints above everything else in this world. It is time that we all should help this cause, and those who do not do it will find, by and by, that they have missed their mark, just as sure as you are born. Now, my sisters, I am speaking from my point of view, and my point of view is that Christ was divinely appointed and sent into the world to relieve mankind of sin through repentance; to relieve mankind from the death which came upon them by the sin of the first man. I believe it with all my soul. I believe that Joseph Smith was raised up by Almighty God to renew the spirit, power and plan of God's Church, of Christ's gospel and holy priesthood. I believe it with all my soul, or I would not be here. I therefore stand upon this principle, that the truth is in the gospel of Jesus Christ, that the power of redemption, the power of peace, the power for good will, love, charity and forgiveness, and the power for fellowship with God, abides in the gospel of Jesus Christ, and in obedience to it on the part of the people. I therefore admit, and not only admit but claim, that there is nothing greater on earth, nor in heaven, than the truth of God's gospel, which he has devised and restored for the salvation and the redemption of the world. And it is through that that peace will come to the children of men, and it will not come to the world in any other way. The nations cannot possess it without they come to God, from whom they are to receive the spirit of union and the spirit of love. And those organizations in the world, created with a view to combining men, possess in them so many of the elements of self-destruction that they can not exist long, as they are, and under the influences which hold them together today, I can tell you that there is no combination formed by men that will prosper and continue to endure, unless it is based upon the principle of truth, righteousness and justice toward all. When a man comes to me and says: "You must be my servant, you must obey me or conform to my plan, or we will starve you to death," I don't care how many elements of goodness there are in the organization that will exclude me from a right to worship God according to the dictates, conscience, of my labor honest to earn my would bread, prevent the it possesses me elements from laboring in''' of decay and destruction, and it cannot last, for it is wrong, absolutely wrong. In the gospel is the light of freedom. Men worship God according to the dictates of their own conscience. We cannot compel you to be saved, nor can we compel you to obey the principles of the gospel at all. In the words of the poet: "Know this, that every man is free To choose his life and what he'll be; For this eternal truth is given, That God will force no man to heaven. "He'll call, persuade, direct aright, Bless him with wisdom, love and light, In nameless ways be good and kind, But never force the human mind." That is the principle of the gospel of Jesus Christ. But these man-made organizations will force you to do as they will, or they will damn you and destroy you; and therein lies the element of self-destruction in themselves, because they can only last for a time. Truth only can abide. Now, let us listen to some of these things, my brethren and sisters, for I tell you they are true. Again, I understand that the General Board of the Relief Society are prepared to publish a magazine in the interests of Relief Society work throughout the Church; and there is one thing abut it I would like to see made prominent, and that is that it be made an instrument which will reach the hearts and the understandings of all the sisters, of all the people of the Church; and, above all things, that the Relief Society shall be organized and adhered to by the young as well as by the aged, so that wherever there is affliction in the country in which that organization exists. that the society will be in a condition to look it up, and administer for the good and the salvation of those who are afflicted. I have heard of several instances, of late, in which a sister was very sick, and very poor, and the neighbors around, without regard to the Relief Society, were being called upon to give a little something to help, or to '^o and help for an hour or two, as the case may be, or, as they could spare the time. Where is the Relief Society? What

"PEACE ON EARTH, GOOD WILL TO MEN."

19 is the Relief Society doing in that ward? When the Relief Society is not looking after that widow, or that poor woman, or those parentless children, or the sick or the afflicted, what is it doing? What is the Relief Society doing when you are calling upon the neighbors irrespective of it, to wait upon the sick and the afflicted women in their suffering? Now I presume that perhaps when these things were called to the attention of the Relief Society, that it took them in hand. I am going to repeat a little story that I have told a good many times. On one occasion I visited a distant branch of the Church, in a distant ward of Zion, and it was in the season of the year when malarial fever was prevalent. There were many people of the town, at least, where I stopped, who were suffering with malarial fever. The moment I landed from the car, I was invited by the president to go with him and visit the sick, which we did. We called on them, visited them, and administered to them. And, in each case, after administering and making some little inquiries, and looking into the condition, we found, and particularly, I will say, we found, in the one instance I am going to relate: a good sister, who came into the house where the mother of the little family lay prostrate upon her bed, and her husband distracted for fear she was going to pass away, the little children helpless, — she came into the room with a basket laden with excellent fruit or food, and other preparations which the children and the family that she was nourishing needed. She took the little children, washed and combed them, and prepared them to sit down to the table. Then she spread food upon the table, and sat the little children around it to eat. Then she turned and administered to the sick mother, and she remained there during, at least, the fore part of the night. I asked, "How is this done?" "Well," she said, "our Relief Society is doing it. The Society is providing these things; I am only acting here for the Relief Society, for this evening until midnight, or until sometime in the night, when I will be relieved by another sister, who will bring other things that will be needful during the latter part of the night and for the morning meal." And I said, "Is this being done throughout the settlement by the Relief Society?" She said, "Yes." And I added, "and none are neglected?" "No, not one, all are provided for. Yes, all are provided for to the best of our ability." And I said in my heart, God bless the Relief Society. I felt that the Lord would bless them, because they were doing their duty to the sick and to the afflicted. Well, these are temporal

20 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

things, and there are other things spiritual, which are even more essential, if possible, at times, than are the mere temporal wants. God bless the Relief Society. The Lord bless the General Board, and help them to see eye to eye, to be united and to put away all jealousy, and every spirit of strife, to be united to help one another, to be forgiving, as we hope to be forgiven, one towards another; that union, love, and concord may prevail at the head, and may from the head permeate throughout all the stakes and name wards of' Zion. Amen.

of Jesus. which may God grant, I humbly pray, in the

The Relief Society. (A Summary of the organization of the L. D. S. Relief Society.)

By invitation of the President of the Church, Joseph Smith. the Prophet, a number of sisters convened in the Masonic lodge room, Nauvoo, on the 17th day of March, 1842. President Joseph Smith, Elders John Taylor and Willard Richards were present. John Taylor was called to the chair and Willard Richards acted as secretary. After singing and prayer a vote was taken to know if all were satisfied with each sister present and willing to acknowledge them in good fellowship and admit them to all the privileges of the institution about to be organized. All being satisfied the names of those present were taken as follows: Emma Smith, Martha Knight, Elvira A. Coles. Sarah H. Cleveland, Phebe Ann Hawkes, Margaret A. Cook. Desmonda Fuller, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Sarah H. Kimball. Elizabeth Jones, Leonora Taylor, Eliza R. Snow, Sophie Packard. Bathsheba W. Smith. Sophia Robinson, Philinda Herrick, Phebe H. Wheeler and Sophia R. Marks. President Smith then explained some of the duties that would devolve on the members of the Society; said they should provoke the brethren to good work; look after the needs of the poor, perform charitable acts, and assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community. Said it was in order for the sisters to elect a president to preside over the Society, and that she should choose two counselors to assist in the duties of her office. He would ordain them and let them preside just as the Presidency presides over the Church, and if the sisters needed his instruction, they should ask and he would be pleased to give it from time to time. The Presidency of the Relief Society should stand as a constitution and their decisions become precedent for the Society to act upon. If officers are wanted to carry out the de-

THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

21 signs of the institution, they should be appointed and set apart as teachers, deacons, etc., are among us. Elizabeth A. Whitney moved and Sophia Packard seconded the motion that Emma Smith should be elected President of the Society. The vote was put and pronounced unanimous. The president-elect made choice of Sarah M. Cleveland and Elizabeth Ann Whitney as her counselors. Eliza R. Snow was appointed secretary and Elvira Coles treasurer. ' President Smith read the revelation to Emma Smith from the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, and stated that she was ordained at the time the revelation was given to expound the scriptures, to teach, etc. He then read scriptures to show that an elect lady is one elected to preside. By request of President Joseph Smith, Apostle Taylor ordained Sarah M. Cleveland and Elizabeth Whitney to be counselors to and assist President Emma Smith in the duties of her office and share in the blessings pertaining thereto. He then confirmed on Emma Smith her former ordination and blessed her to be a mother in Israel, a pattern of virtue and to possess all the qualifications necessary to enable her to preside with dignity and give such instructions as may be requisite in her calling as an elect lady. Elder Taylor vacated the chair and President Emma Smith and counselors took the stand. A lengthy discussion followed on the question: ''What shall this Society be called?" Mrs. Cleveland and Mrs. Whitney advocated the appropriateness of the name Relief Society. John Taylor and President Smith spoke in favor of Benevolent. Emma Smith and E. R. Snow argued in favor of Mrs. Cleveland's choice. The gentlemen withdrew their objections and a motion to adopt the name of Relief Society was unanimously carried. President Smith President: "I now All then and said Counselors. who this declare organized Society shall hereafter with be admitted must be free from censure and admitted by vote." President Joseph Smith laid down a five-dollar gold piece to commence a Relief Society fund, and said: "What I do hereafter for charity, I shall do through this Society." Sarah A. Cleveland gave $12.50; Sarah H. Kimball $1.00; Emma Smith, $1.00; Elizabeth A. Whitney, 50 cents; Willard Richards, $1.00; John Taylor, $2.00. President Smith said: "I will give a city lot on which the Society can build, will make the deed to the treasurer." (Note. — We will present full minutes of this and other Relief Society meetings in Nauvoo, in our March number, which will be a special Organization number. — Editor.)

Clothing for the Woman Past Forty.

By The Two Sarahs.

"And again, thou shalt not be proud in thy heart; let all thy garments be plain, and their beauty, the beauty of the work of thine own hands." — Doc. & Cov., 42:40.

Latter-day Saint women should be exemplary in their dress, worthy of being imitated. Our bodies are sacred; they should be clothed to express simplicity and modesty. The narrow skirt, the low-cut bodice, and the short sleeves should be avoided. "Example is better than precept." It is woman's privilege and duty to dress becomingly, to look her best, to dress well; and it is possible to dress economically, if we use our brains. When we are approaching the autumn of life, greater care and attention should be given to our appearance than ever before. When we reach a mature age, prevailing fashions should be considered carefully: the extreme avoided, and a style selected and adjusted to suit the figure and complexion. Colors should be studied. Dark greens, greys, purples, navy blue, and seal brown are appropriate shades for the woman of forty. Color has its effect on the personality, or, shall I say, the soul. This is true not only as to the wearer, but there is a definite effect, produced by the color of our clothing upon those with whom we mingle. Avoid black, when possible, as it is trying at this time in life. It is an old adage that, "the best is the cheapest;" and in looking for quality, we can't find anything better than the beautiful, enduring materials made at our Provo Woolen Mills. Sisters, when shopping, inquire for these goods. The merchants will then realize the necessity of keeping a stock on hand. The best material does not wear out in one season. By occasionally remodeling our dresses, a good appearance may be obtained. Take, for illustration, the one-piece dress! To remodel, combine it with contrasting goods, or use the added material of the same, and make a long over-skirt, with girdle. With a few changes in the waist, your gown is wearable and pretty. It is possible to make a one-piece dress out of your last season's jacket and skirt. The popular materials are Tight-weight — gaberdine, poplins, Panamas, serge, and broadcloth. It is economy for every woman to have a good-fitting skirt and waist pattern. Then she can make her waists at odd times to match her suit; crepe de chine and soft taffetas wear well. Three yards of eighteen-inch silk will make a tailored waist. The old-fashioned method of sewing should again be taught our girls. The slip-shod way of sewing or throwing cloth together today can not but have its effect upon the minds of the rising generation.

GENEALOGY.

23 Next to motherhood ideals, there is nothing more essential for mothers to impress upon their daughters than the necessity of understanding the art of sewing. Integrity, independence, thrift, and comeliness are taught in this art. The following rules should be observed: Sit in an upright position. Make your stitches even. Use a thimble. Never bite your thread. Keep clean hands. Never pin your sewing to your knee. "What is worth doing, is worth doing well." If the above rules will not appeal to the "new" rich, many of the "old" rich have become so by following out these principles.

Genealogy.

As our readers will discover, our genealogical lessons this year will be given simply in the form of outlines. We are fortunate in having an excellent lesson book as a foundation for the information to be taken up. Therefore, in this Department, we design not so much to give information in regard to the study of genealogy, as to make it a means of interchange between genealogical committees, in the various stakes and wards of the Relief Society, and to print from time to time reports of the work accomplished in the different branches of the Society. There are several stakes in which splendid work has been done, in following out the genealogical outlines given in last year's guide; but when the matter was discussed at the October conference, even these stakes decided that it. would be a profitable thing to begin our lessons all over again, going more slowly, and taking them up more in detail. This is the plan, therefore, that will be followed. We invite inquiries concerning methods of presentation of work, pertaining to lessons or genealogy in general or particular: also, we would be pleased to receive individual questions which will be printed in this Department, and individual answers will be given, when possible. We invite the co-operation of everyone interested in genealogy throughout the Relief Society of the' Church.

BOND FAMILY.

Does any one know William Bond, who came to Utah in 1855 or 1856? Any of his family who may be living would confer a favor and receive most valuable genealogical help by writing to, T. Edward Bond, 501 Market Street, San Francisco, California.

Home Gardening for Women.

Janette A. Hyde.

May we hope from the small beginning of last year's outlines, in home gardening and flower, raising, that some good has been accomplished — at least in arousing sufficient interest to plan for a larger and better kitchen garden than ever before. One of the main objects in placing these articles before our women was to create an atmosphere of family co-operation and common interests in the home; that children might learn helpfulness from such small beginnings as working in a kitchen garden. , They will also discover the value of cultivating the soil, the wonderful results obtained from working and improving vacant property in cities and towns. Such intelligently directed toil helps children to appreciate the privilege of assisting in planning the garden, while they also form a partnership with mother. Above all else, such careful utilization of opportunities creates a spirit of independence and thrift. There is also the economical value of the great lesson gained when the boy and girl discover what is required in labor and material to feed themselves. After the holiday season is over, and we are settled in the regular routine of daily life, we begin to think over and plan the work soon to be undertaken for our kitchen garden. We get out the catalogues, or send for new ones, look over the bulletins sent out last season by Senator Smoot, from the United States Agricultural Department, or from those sent by Dr. Widtsoe, of our own Agricultural College, of Logan. We carefully consider the possibilities of our own climate, the plot of ground which we have selected, and note that our climatic conditions are the same as, or similar to, those described in the different catalogues and bulletins, which treat of climate and soil. Then we consider the fertilizing propositions, with husband and children, and if the garden plot was not properly fertilized in the fall, we plan to do it now. We must make sure of the right beginning, which is fertilization and an abundance of it at the proper season of the year. All this studying, planning, and consideration, will form a basis upon which we may form some kind of an estimate as to our success in our past efforts in kitchen gardening, and just what will be wise for us to do in the coming season. The women of the Relief Society have made a splendid beginning in Home Gardening, because of our required lesson work during the year 1914. Let us not go backward nor lapse into an indifferent condition in this matter, — because our work is now left to our own pleasure.

Notes from the Field.

Salt Lake Stake Relief Society.

The first organized stake of Zion in this intermountain region was the Salt Lake stake. The first Stake Board of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society was organized in 1877. There were then 46 branches scattered throughout the city and the county. That splendid pioneer mother, M. Isabella Home, was at that time made president of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, and this position she held for nearly thirty years. Out of Salt Lake City and County have been organized seven stakes, each with its separate officers and distinct religious autonomy. In April, 1904, Mrs. Clarisssa S. Williams was chosen President of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society which position she held until Sept. 26, 1908, when she was released in order to give more time to the work of the General Board of which she was Treasurer. Her counselor. Mrs. Harriet B. Harker, was then made President of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, which position she holds to the present time. Shortly after she went into office, Mrs. Williams instituted weekly meetings, as it was considered impossible to accomplish everything desired, in the monthly or semi-monthly meetings. Studies have been outlined and printed, and great activity along all lines has constantly marked the work of this great, original stake. Three years ago, under the direction of the priesthood, special meetings were called and missionaries appointed to visit every woman in the stake. This accomplished a great deal of good. Since the General Board have issued outlines, this stake has chosen committees of three to take charge of the genealogical study, and of the mother's work. Monthly meetings are held in the famous old Fourteenth Ward Assembly Hall. This is a united Board, and a spirit of cheerful activity permeates every branch of their work.

Ogden Stake.

Out of the many stakes which have been organized in the past five years, the Ogden stake is, perhaps, one of the most active. It was organized on the 19th of July, 1908. the Ogden stake being an of shoot from Weber stake. There are ten wards in the stake, and the stake and ward officers hold weekly stake board meetings in connection with the presidency of the stake, and the

26 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

other auxiliary stake boards. These union meetings are prefaced three times a month with preliminary, private officers' meetings. The fourth week, they hold an open meeting with the Stake Presidency for reports and counsel. Some idea of the effectiveness of the work of this stake can be gleaned from the following statistics: In the past year, the average attendance at Stake Board meetings was seventy-five per cent. The Stake Board officers made two hundred seventy-five visits to local branches, and five hundred eighty-eight visits to the sick. There was an average attendance at the local meeting of twenty-five per cent; seventy three per cent of the families of the ward were visited each month by the visiting teachers. Aside from this, there were 3,083 special visits to the sick. This, with the 588 visits made by the Stake Board, forms a total of 3,671 visits to the sick during the year. The stake officers have appointed a committee of three from their stake who have a special care over the invalids, the aged, and those who are unable to leave their homes to attend meetings. There are 188 teachers in this stake,* and in the six years of its existence, they have expended for charity alone, the sum of $5,584.20. They have given the usual help to ward and stake enterprises; have had bazzars and entertainments which have raised in the three years $3,597.60. Each ward has donated liberally, and the grand total is $13,666.73 which they have received and disbursed. Changes have been made in the Board, but the first officers were: President Martha Taylor, and Counselors Isabel B. Foulger and L. Letitia Richards, with Nellie Beecraft, Secretary. Perhaps the most satisfactory feature of their work is the beautiful harmony which prevails in this stake between the Presiding Priesthood and the officers of the Relief Society.

New Cottonwood Stake.

We are pleased to announce the birth of another stake of Zion. This lusty infant is an offshoot from the great Granite stake of Zion, whose borders have become so extended that our leaders found it imperative to divide up territory and responsibility. The organization was effected November 29th, 1914. At this time, a partial organization of a stake board for the Relief Society was also made, and the following officers were chosen to preside over the Cottonwood stake Relief Society: President, Amanda Bagley; First Counselor, Mrs. Nellie Cornwall; Second Counselor, Mrs. Rhena Wheeler.

A Prince of Ur.

Homespun.

CHAPTER I.

The sun was rising in in dimmed glory on the towers and walls of the great city of Ur. Motley crowds of Assyrians, rude Turanians, from the upper hill country of the north, richly-clad Babylonians in costly palanquins, or, if on foot, attended by fierce soldiery, jostled the foot passengers who were hurrying to get in or to get out of the great gates as they were opened for the day.

"Dog of a Turanian," growled a slight, olive-skinned Tarshish merchant, who was nearly pushed into the long, narrow trough of yellowish limestone which stood just outside the massive western gates. "Hast thou no care for thy head nor thy limb? Then, why endanger another's?"

The slave who had himself been pressed outward by the crowding behind him, bent low to the earth and groveled at the feet of the enraged traveler.

"Thou wast ever a fool; the God of nature cannot change thy nature. O son of Cush; the gods must needs forgive thee, so I can forgive thee also."

The slave was slipping away through the press of struggling humanity at the edge of the city's greatness, when the merchant traveler stopped him again and demanded:

"Who hath put up this gorgeous fountain, since last I was in the city of the Moon-god?"

The slave again prostrated himself before the now mollified merchant and replied in the gutteral tongue of his northern hills:

"If thou canst hear my speech, then may I tell thee?"

The merchant nodded. He was the true cosmopolite. His business existed by means of his own and others' tongues.

"This newly carved fountain is the work of the Petesi's master-carver, Azzi-Jaami."

"So!" The merchant gazed admiringly on the figures of the two women at opposite ends of this stone trough, standing with outstretched hands, passing to each other vases from which gushed forth the two streams of water, filling the reservoir constantly for the free use of men and beasts whose business or pleasure might lead them that way. "The skill of Azzi-Jaami is used in many directions. He is a very great artist. Methinks he lies in danger to his gods," mused the merchant.

The slave made no reply, for he well knew that none was

28 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

expected of him. Instead, he drew courage from the abstraction of the traveler to rise and again slide into the congested mass of human beings who were crowding in and out of the great city gates, prodded and harried as most of them were by the city guards with sharp swords and long javelins in their hands.

Just as the full rays of the revealed sun beat glowingly upon the double leaves of the ponderous gates, now opening wide, a dusty horseman, the outrider of a large party of approaching horsemen, raised his hand in a token or sign of some kind, and instantly the gates swung back swiftly upon their bronze posts built into the thirty-foot walls surrounding the city of Ur.

"The horseman is the horseman of the Prince of Ur, the sign is the sign of kingly authority, and the party must contain either the prince himself, or his father, the Petesi. In either case it behooves me to wait," mused the irascible traveler, whose slender form and brilliant face seemed equally as accustomed to smiles as to frowns. The sky is bluer when seen through occasional clouds.

Up from the plains of the distant north, came a rapid cavalcade of shepherd soldiers, whose broad scimitars and white turbans, with wide flowing veils of snowy whiteness, had a look of simple strength and vigor that contrasted well with the panoplied warriors of the Assyrian soldiery near the gateway.

"Make way for the Prince," shouted the sentries, and the crowds, already pressed within and without with stifling haste, screamed as they fled from the strokes of sword or stave; but at least, the path was cleared for the oncoming party.

"The Prince of Ur, by all that awaits me in life" said the traveler. But he made no move to join or to intercept the long cavalcade now trotting under the long, high gateway.

All of the shepherd host were tall, all were lithe and sinewy, all were very alert and haughty in their supreme bodily control. But he that sat upright on his snow-white charger, nearly at the head of the party, yet surrounded by a dozen eager guards, who scanned the multitude and swept the very heavens with their challenging eyes of midnight glow, needed no guard to protect his majestic presence from defilement, nor soldiers to add to his gracious dignity. For that very unfathomable reason, he was the human magnet that drew all service to meet his own ends, and he attracted abject obedience with his simple, quiet presence.

"Twenty years is a long time," again mused the merchant, speaking his thought aloud.

"Longer than love, and more destructive than doubt," answered a voice at his elbow.

The merchant turned quickly. "Fools and brawlers interrupt the meditations of the wise!" The traveler gazed keenly into the other olive-skinned face now turned quietly towards him.

"Open thine eyes, Javanu, and sharpen thy wits. Thou art

A PRINCE OF UR.

29 encouraging the habits of the dotard in giving wing to thy thoughts through open speech, in the public highway. Bethink thyself — yes — gaze again — is thy memory also getting into age and dotage?"

"None but Eleizer, the Damascan, would thus tempt the just retribution of a full-blown man. It is my one-time associate in the khans of Damascus. Why art thou so far from the rich dominions of Japheth?"

With the subtlety of his tribe, the Damascan smiled in his short and ruddy beard while he parried: "Hath Japheth relinquished his claim upon Chaldea? Who that loveth and maketh riches or fame shall cease to strive along the banks of the Euphrates or to seek in Ur and Babylon?"

"Plague on thee, Javanu; thou dost ever draw out mine own thought recesses into the glare of bright sunlight, while thy purpose lies along the corridors of thy long tongue, like dim mosaics under the rug of prayer."

"Be thou not offended, good Javanu, if aught I had to tell thee, it would be opened as a wide chamber. Perhaps it is whim, perhaps a purpose of the gods; who can tell? Certainly not I. But tell me — I hear much talk from the multitude of the sudden return of the Prince Abram. Who is this great and much heralded Prince of Ur? I have heard of naught but him, and bandied with his fame are both hate and love from all classes. None slight, although few agree as to his character or his future."

"Not know the heaven-succored Prince of Ur? The friend of the Pharaoh, the instructor of the poor, the teacher of the learned, the admired of all the courts of the world? Who hath not heard his fame? Who doth not either envy or hate, admire or love his very name — the Nameless Sacred Prince, the successor of Shem, the student of the stars?—

"Cease, Javanu, thy tongue is a river of repeated words. I am not ignorant of this great nameless name. But is the nameless Prince indeed Abram? It was told in my boyhood that Abram was hated and sought by Nimrod, Merodach, as the Assyrians call him, for the babe had been prophesied about as the destroyer of Nimrod's glory and prescience; the story ran that Nimrod had killed seventy thousand helpless infants of Shem's descendants, in order to make sure of this wonder-worker, Abram. Was not that true?"

"True, my Eliezer, concerning the hatred of Nimrod, and of the destruction of thousands of newly-born infants, born under the tents of Shem. But what was not told shows how truth is masked to resemble falsehood by the half-revealing. The Prince Abram was carried by stealth to the royal abode of his progenitor, Shem, in the city of Peace, Salem, and there reared to manhood under the direct tutelage of that majestic son of Noah. Shem is still

30 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

alive, feeble and very aged indeed, but still able to administer in the rites of his own religion, in which Abram has been carefully instructed. He returns for the first time in twenty years to resume his own Syrian name — to visit his father's household — and who knows — to make himself sure as to the truth of the rumors concerning the resplendent beauty of his kinswoman Sarai."

While the two men talked, the cavalcade had gone far beyond the gate, and had forced its slower way through the crowd which filled every portion of the city's confused streets. They avoided the old portions of the ancient city, with its sinuous, muddy streets, which were littered with domestic refuse and organic detritus, and in which flocks of ravens and wandering packs of dogs performed with more or less efficiency the duties of sanitary officers. Whole quarters of the city were composed of huts made of puddled clay, the low houses of crude unburnt brick, or as moderns would term them, adobes. Some of these houses were surmounted with domes of conical shape, both to make for greater light within and to add a trace of comeliness to the exterior. Crowded and noisy bazaars flanked the open squares of the city at this cool hour of the day, and each trade was located in its own special lane or alley, for such the side-streets really were. The cavalcade rode along the handsome wide street, which was garnished with the palaces and gardens of the rich, surrounded on the outside as they all were, with protecting walls to seclude the private life of the patricians from the rude gaze of the public. Looking down upon this medley of individual dwellings, were the two great temples, the old private temple of the Petesi, Terah, set within his own spacious palace walls on the east end of the city; while the new and resplendent towers of the great public Ziggurat, set upon its terraces, rising one above another, was crowned with its glittering and gilded sanctuary, hundreds of feet above the city proper. The eyes of the Prince of Ur were fastened in growing horror upon this newly glittering mockery. But he only rode the faster that he might gain the seclusion of his own palace ere the noon-hour fell.

Within the palace all was bustle. The outriders had brought news of Abram's approach, and slaves rushed to and fro, chamberlains issued hurried orders, officials donned robes of office, unused treasures of curtain and vase were drawn from chests and vaults, and placed on pillars and pedestals in hall and chamber: slaves filled richly-carved vases with the green and scarlet of flower and fern; viands were hastily set out on the rectangular dresser of moderate size in the huge kitchens, in which were several fireplaces marked out by little dividing walls of burnt brick, to accommodate the many pots and pans of various sizes. The

A PRINCE OF UR.

31 well which was sunk in the corner of this great kitchen down below the substructure provided the water for culinary purposes.

Across the central courtyard there hurried the figure of a slight, but well-built youth, whose light-brown curls were massed in silky profusion above his square brows. He was clad in the regal white abaya or tunic; and his dainty hands and small feet, sandaled with jeweled leather, proclaimed the student or the dandy.

"Who comes thus into the palace of the Petesi of Ur?" he demanded of a huge, black woman running the other way.

"Hast thou not heard, O Mardan? It is the Nameless Prince, Abram, returning from Salem."

"Then why all this flurry? One would think the Petesi himself, or even the great King Nimrod were approaching, to witness all this scampering and delight."

The black woman stopped and considered the speaker fixedly. "Jealousy? Or fear?" she questioned, laconically.

"Why either? To be curious is to be wise."

"Wisdom rarely speaks."

"Except with tongue of silver."

As he spoke, he drew from his tunic a mass of silver coins, and with a charming, if superficial smile, he filled the open hands of the black woman. She still waited. She at least knew the value of silence.

"The Princess Sarai! Canst make opportunity for speech with her before the temple bells ring out for this evening service?"

"Easier to seek the Princess Iscah."

"That is why I seek her not," the gilded youth laughed softly in his curled and perfumed beard. "Thou hast no sympathy with love; but I can help thee to reach thy ambition."

The black woman used still her only weapon with this curled and gaudy gallant. She asked no question.

"Wouldst climb the very summit of the Ziggurat, and sit within as Ishtar? Thou wast promised the stars for thy crown, remember, when thou wast begotten in Accadian courts. Why not the Moon-crown?"

"Thou art of the spawn which makes women fools and men criminals, O Mardan. Thou art thine own god and thy lust and greed will some day make thee fit associate of Nimrod, thy foster-parent. Why seek me with temptation?"

"Thou art the gateway to my love."

"Who knows? Thou may'st yet be saved, as may my own soul. We have drunk deep of this Assyrian devil-worship. But love — aye love— that is the great force of the universe."

The black woman spoke gloomily, as if her soul waded in torments of uncertainty, and her only chance for surcease lay in the renewal of mighty effort.

32 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

"The Prince Abram may seek the courts of his kinswoman, Sarai, this night," she replied gloomily still.

"The Prince of Ur so far forget his royal courtesy as to intrude himself uninvited into the regal presence of the lady Sarai? Surely not. Nay, Zillah, thy duty is to assist me, not to linger for chances to serve Abram. If thou servest me well, thou shalt succeed and prosper; if not"— the speaker reared his head, shot out his arm, first to the east, then to the west, and then suddenly thrust it towards the earth. The black woman quailed as she replied:

"Thou canst thank thyself if the destruction thou dost prophesy for me doth also engulf thine own selfish soul. I will seek the lady Sarai. Be at the Women's Court, at the south lattice, at the hour of the moon-rising."

As she spoke, the sudden blare of trumpets announced the incoming of the regal party of Shepherd dukes with the Prince of Ur riding at their head. Instantly, Mardan hurried down to the great gates which gave access to the interior of this spacious courtyard. There were several gateways to the vast enclosure, which included gardens, courts, palaces, barracks, towers and the high towered temple or ziggurat which rose, terrace above terrace, in the northern corner of the splendid enclosure. The two gates opened from the principal facade. On each of the other sides of the palace walls there was only one entrance. They were all arched so low that admittance was not easily gained; all were closed with two-leaved doors of cypress or cedar, provided with hinges, which turned upon two black stones set firmly in the masonry. Each stone was inscribed with the name of Terah, Petesi of Ur, and vicegerent or satrap of Nimrod, king and founder of Babylon. The gateway towards which Mardan was hurrying possessed a sort of covered way in which the soldiers of the external watch could take shelter from the heat of the sun, by day, and from the chill of the night, or from the dews at dawn. This long, narrow, dark corridor was flanked with two small rooms on each side for the porters or warders, and led into the gigantic courtyard which was surrounded with buildings of various sizes and designs. This courtyard was a semi-public place, to which tradesmen, merchants, suppliants, and functionaries of all ranks, had easy access through the daylight hours. On the northeast angle was the arsenal. The far southern end of the court opened into the enclosure set aside for the Petesi and his male relatives. The administrative officers and the large staff who had charge of the various portions of the household and soldiery were located near these suites. The roofs of all the palaces were flat, and all the way around the roofs of the outer enclosing huge walls of the public or official palace there was a broad terrace filled with potted palms and artificial verdure at the corners. Access to this broad

A PRINCE OF UR.

33 and slightly elevated promenade was gained by a staircase built between the principal staircase entrance and the arsenal. At the far distant north end of this great enclosure rose a high and graceful private temple, or Ziggurat, which had been greatly neglected in the long absence of the Petesi, who was chief captain of Nimrod's warlike hosts; while the Prince Abram, just now returning, had not been in Ur for twenty years. The walls of the palace itself were of the sun-dried brick common to that rich alluvial plain of the Euphrates Valley, for no stone nor timber was nearer than hundreds of hard miles, and the builders made use of nature's provision, the brick of many shades and colors. The walls were decorated by means of terra-cotta cones, fixed deep into the solid plaster, and these were painted red, black and yellow, forming interlaced or diaper patterns of chevrons, spirals, lozenges and triangles; this mosaic of colored plaster covered all the surfaces, both flat and curved, giving the whole a most cheerful and gay aspect.

As the Prince Abram rode under the low archway, his kinsman, Mardan, sprang to his horse's bridle and saluted him with an overcharged enthusiasm that went deep into the soul of the weary wanderer.

"Thou Magic Nameless Prince, my dear kinsman, lord of the widened plains of Euphrates, matchless in wisdom, in truth and in happiness, welcome, thrice welcome to the home of thy childhood, to the palace of thy royal progenitor, and to the hearts of thy kindred. I salute thee on thy cheek, by thy beard and by the Seven Stars of the Pleiades."

Abram leaned his majestic form to meet the rushing tempest of this unexpected greeting. Too tired, too full of emotion, to discern trifles, the Prince smiled warmly in the eyes of his handsome kinsman and replied genially:

"Thou hast grown comely and courteous, my Mardan, since last I saw thy stripling form. Join me this evening, when we shall discover what time and absence hath done for us both."

"That shall I do, most royal Prince, but be not impatient. There are many important matters requiring mine attention — both for thy comfort and for the possible return of the Petesi, our progenitor and Lord."

"Petesi? Is there chance of his quick return?"

"The hosts of Nimrod have this long time been engaged in the final conclusion of the wars in the south country. Each day we cry from the battlements of the city, the Petesi may return this day, and each night we mourn that the day brought only disappointment. Yet another cause shall bring the Petesi, and with him our most glorious Emperor and Master, Nimrod, the mighty Hunter of the whole world."

"Speak on, Mardan. This cause?"

34 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

With a slightly embarrassed air, as if he were treading on delicate ground, as indeed he was, Mardan replied:

"Hast thou been so shut off from contact with worldly matters that thou art unacquainted with the completion of our majestic Ziggurat, to be dedicated to the Moon-god immediately on the return of Nimrod from his southern conquests?"

Abram's cheek paled, his lips set across his face in stern lines. It was the sign for which his crafty kinsman had been watching. With the intonation of one who would soothe and tame a lion, Mardan spoke softly:

"Thou dost know full well that Nimrod hath strengthened his claims to supremacy by allying himself with the nature-worship of these haughty Chaldeans. What matters it how one worships outwardly— if the heart be right within. The God of Noah is not a respecter of persons."

"Thou speakest with the tongue of a Chaldean thyself, Mardan. But I will have speech with thee in the later hours of the evening. Thou art still young, and impressionable — it is the fault of too-generous youth. Tell me, how are the ladies of the Petesi's household. Thy mother — the young princesses, Sarai, Iscah, Irit, and their mothers?"

"Alas, there is but one of us so fortunate now as to call Mother and receive living answer — thine unworthy servant who speaketh to thee. The others passed to the Land of the Silver Light in the long years of thine absence. Mine own mother is in good health, but feeble, and seldom leaves her apartments for the outer glare of the courtyard. She will welcome thee most royally there and would joy to hear and bear converse with the Prince of Ur."

"Salute her in my name, Mardan, and prepare her for my early presence on the morrow."

(To be continued.)

WORDS OF COMMENDATION FROM A WELL-KNOWN CRITIC AND EDITOR.

Salt Lake City, Utah, Dec. 8, 1914.

I believe that the mission of the Bulletin has been valuable to the sisters of the Relief Society and has done much good for the cause of the Church. Wishing you continued success, and the compliments of the season, I remain.

Your friend and brother, Edward H. Anderson.

Current Topics.

James H. Anderson.

INTERNATIONAL CHARITY.

The appalling conditions in Belgium, resulting from Germany's invasion of Belgian neutrality in the present European war, whereby approximately seven million non-combatants are suffering untold hardships and are threatened with almost immediate starvation, have called forth a highly commendable generosity on the part of the American public, in an endeavor to relieve the sufferers, for the time being at least. If these unfortunate people are to be saved from death by privations and resultant disease, there must be still greater liberality by Americans, covering a period of uncertain length. The work of this relief is being carried on by special organizations brought into existence for that purpose, and with excellent results. While this is going on, the various branches of our own Woman's Relief Society should not fail to realize that their work for the relief of the deserving needy at home must not be overlooked. These branch organizations are not to interfere with the work of Belgian relief commissions, or other charitable committees which, while more general in extent, are special in their character. The Relief Society have a home obligation which necessarily demands their chief attention. America's present industrial depression makes this obligation more pronounced than usual, hence calls for increased activity by Relief Society officers and members. A pleasing feature of extending aid by the Society is that it is done without advertising the recipients thereof. The fact that deserving persons who may have become dependent by some misfortune would have their feelings hurt and their influence for good limited, by advertising the aid given them, suggests one of the several reasons why our Society proceeds without such publicity. There is a double blessing in liberal giving; but giving with ostentation is selfishness which often obscures and even removes the blessed effect. "When thou doest alms, cause not a trumpet to be sounded before thee," is one of the Society's guiding rules; at the same time its members also are anxious to be fully mindful of giving aid to the needy, hence are very desirous of having communicated to them, without undue publicity, every deserving case where such aid may be extended.

LOCAL TOPICS.

There is much public discussion, apropos of the 1915 session of the Utah Legislature, of a revision of the system of taxa-

36 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

tion and of collecting the public revenues. In view of the fact that the public has been getting a full share of revenue, so far as property-owners generally are concerned, the proper economic expenditure of funds that are collected under the present system is of greater importance in the minds of the taxpayers than is any change in system which may provide a more refined method of squeezing the individual's purse for the swelling of the public treasury. What the people want is less waste of public funds in state, county and municipal duplication of work, less individual junketing and joyriding at public expense, less instances of employing half-a-dozen persons to do the work of three, and more practical economic results from the expenditure of money gathered under the present system, rather than changes to increase revenue for further extravagance. Something that will check the prevailing craze of public officials generally to get from the individual all the cash they can,