Vol. II APRIL, 1915 No. 4 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE HOME GARDEN NUMBER ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS ROOM 29. BISHOPS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH $1.00 a Year— Single Copy 10c WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO. NEWS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY OUR DRUG STORE IS COMPLETE PRICES RIGHT We Solicit Your Patronage Prompt Attention to Mail Orders TRY OUR QUICK LUNCH— IT'S DELICIOUS FRESH FLOWERS DAILY The Xmas Store for Men and Boys Choose now while assortments are most complete. Best possible values, of course. UTAH'S GREATEST CLOTHING STORE GARDNER & ADAMS CO. IN THE KEARNS BUILDING We give and redeem Security Vouchers Marion Banks FINE MILLINERY Charlton's HOLIDAY SPECIAL On Our Smart Line of at reasonable Prices SUITS, GOWNS AND WAISTS Have you seen our new handkerchiefs GOODWIN CORSETS and neckwear? This ad. will redeem 10 per cent, on purchases at regular price. 242 SOUTH MAIN STREET PLAN YOUR GARDEN NOW You will find our Seed and Nursery Guide Book the most valuable assistant in telling you just what is worth while to plant in this climate. This book contains 112 pages fully illustrated just brimful of the information needed by every planter of Seeds, Plants, Shrubs, Roses and Trees. By securing it you will get the benefit of the thousands of experiments carried on at our Centerville Trials Grounds, and this alone is worth Dollars. You are entitled to a free copy of this valuable book. Mention this paper and write for it today. PORTER-WALTON CO Seed and Nursery Specialists for U. S. A. , SALT LAKE The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 
CONTENTS. APRIL, 1915. 
Service Maud Baggarley 165 
Beautiful Flower Gardens 
Frontispiece Beautifying the Homes of Relief Society Women 167 
Thanksgiving Marie Jensen 179 
Clothing for Women Past Forty The Two Sarahs 180 
Current Topics James H. Anderson 182 A. Prince of Ur Homespun 184 
Early Development of the Textile Art Rose H. Widtsoe 189 
The Notes "Word of Wisdom" from the Field Maud Baggarley 193 195 
Editorial 198 
Guide Lessons 200 
Music: Spring B. Cecil Gates 208 
ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY. Patronize those who have made it possible for this paper to exist. 
AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah. 
AMERICAN THEATER BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City. 
BUTLER'S BOOTERY, Salt Lake City. CO-OP. 
FURNITURE, 35 South Main St., Salt Lake City. 
CULLEN HOTEL. CUTLER'S 36 S. Main Street, Salt Lake City. 
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 S. Main, Salt Lake City. 
DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, 8 Main Street, Salt Lake City. 
P. W. DUNYON CO., 502 Templeton Building. 
JOSEPH J. DAYNES, 38 D Street. GARDNER ADAMS. 
JENSEN CREAMERY COMPANY, Salt Lake. KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main, 260 State Sts., Salt Lake City. 
McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City. 
MARIAN BANKS, Millinery, and CHARLTON'S SUIT & CLOAK CO., 242 South Main, Salt Lake City. 
OREGON SHORT LINE RAILROAD. PORTERWALTON CO., Seedmen, Nurserymen and Florists, Salt Lake City. 
RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City. 
SCRACE'S BAKERY, 25 S. Main, Salt Lake City. S. M. TAYLOR & CO., 
UNDERTAKERS, 251-259 E. First South Street, Salt Lake City. 
THOMAS, Photographer. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City. 
WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City. Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City. 
RELIEF SOCIETY HEADQUARTERS and Ladies' Utah Made Dresses Goods For Approved Garment Postage Prepaid and Samples Sent on Request CUTLER'S, 36 Main Street Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 
S. M. TAYLOR & CO. UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS SUCCESSORS TO JOSEPH E. TAYLOR The Pioneer Undertaker of the West 53 years in one location 251-253-255-257 EAST FIRST SOUTH ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 
EFFICIENT SERVICE MODERN METHODS COMPLETE EQUIPMENT THE BIGGEST PERMANENT THEATRICAL FEATURE IN THE WEST— THE AMERICAN THEATRE CONCERT ORCHESTRA Under direction of PROF. J. J. McCLELLAN The finest pictures and the best music combine to make a wonderful entertainment for the money. 
SERVICE. BY. MAUD BAGGARLEY. Seek thou not to grasp the starlight, 'fit will sift between thy hands; Home may be thy field of labor — Despite the lure of foreign lands! Every secret dream of beauty May be clothed in common clay! Rejoice! thy hands are blessed and strengthened By the toil of every day. Beautiful Flower Gardens at Cosy Home on South State Street. THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. II. APRIL, 1915. No. 4. Beautifying the Homes of Relief Society Women. We have devoted the few pages of space, which are not otherwise occupied in the Magazine, to articles on the home gardening movement among our sisters. We have three articles from experts of the Utah Agricultural College, and one on Civic Improvement by our own Janette A. Hyde, full of splendid suggestions. Cosy Home of Thrifty Wage-earner on South State Street. Vegetables and small fruits supply the family table and return profits from sale. 168 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Profitable Crop of Cabbage and Celery on a Small Truck Garden in Suburbs of Salt Lake City. PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS FOR CIVIC IMPROVEMENT. Mrs. Janette A. Hyde. We have accomplished some things, we hope to be able to accomplish many more things; and, indeed, we may say, we hope to achieve all things within the broad scope of Relief Society work. And after all, this work embraces most things that are really worth the while. So this being the case, we are now launching out on a home gardening, home improving, and home beautifying campaign. We invite all Relief Society women to join us in this movement, not only to have cleaner yards, better lawns, and flower-gardens for our own homes, but to broaden out and try to improve the grounds --round about our Churches and our Relief Society houses, and, in fact, all public places. If our sisters, at one of their meetings, would appoint a committee to meet with the City officials of their respective towns, and have plans formulated for improving the grounds of the meetinghouses and other public buildings; offer to furnish the refreshments for those who do the real work; get the digging done, and the ground ready for lawns, it would create much interest in the cause. If you have not the conveniences for sprinkling, have the lawn made in furrows, so it can be irrigated. Plant a few trees — the Georgia poplars will grow almost in any climate, are beautiful 69 BEAUTIFYING THE HOME. and will furnish plenty of shade. Put in a few rose bushes, and at either side of the walk, have rows of sweet elysium or candy tuft, or dwarf nasturtiums. Sisters, if you will buy the seeds and trees, you can easily get the brethren to do the work. Make an effort this spring to improve, at least on the public land. In this, as in all other undertakings of the Relief Society sisters, let us make a success. Let us all work together for improvement around our own homes, and all our places of worship, as well as other public buildings and grounds. Beautiful Flower Garden Raised by the Mistress of this Attractive City Home, Located at Burton Place on State Street. CIVIC BEAUTY. Hazel Love Dunford of the State Agricultural College. In a recent magazine article, a writer of note said that "most western towns and villages bear an unkempt aspect that requires a touch of twilight to give them kindliness." This is sad indeed and, I fear, too often true, not only of western towns but of America in general. Those who have visited in the Old World, say that in the long settled corners of Europe, men's fields, lanes, 170 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. roads, houses, churches, and even whole villages and towns seem to combine with nature to produce a scenery of a more lovable type than nature alone could offer us. It is quite the reverse in many parts of America. Our yards, lawns, fences, streets, etc., certainly show a lack of a love for civic beauty. In the last thirty years, a great deal has been done in this country to bring up our standard of living. Improvement leagues, civic associations, betterment leagues, etc., have been formed with the express purpose of beautifying our homes, towns and country places. "We are learning how essential an element beauty is in the good influence of the home, in the effectiveness of the school, in the holding and transforming power of the church," says one writer. Many men have realized this in their factory work, and have done much to improve the places of employment to make them beautiful, and thereby keep their employees happy and contented. The love of beauty is natural to every human being, and those who are living without it, are deprived of that which makes for beautiful, happy lives. The importance of pleasing surroundings cannot be exaggerated. It comes closest to the home-life of the people; it builds for good honorable characters. It is a direct agent for the prevention of ignorance, crime and disease, and for the promotion of health, usefulness, and good morals. I wonder if we cannot do something, say, first, in our own yards? The spring is close upon us now. Can we not get the children to help and have a general clean-up day? Make a good time of it, and you will feel better for the out-door exercise. Don't fail to have a good dinner in your plans, — something extra to pay for the effort put forth by the children. Plant some flowers, and get some shrubbery started, if you have none. If one individual on each street would do this, it would act as a leavening agent; you know there is nothing so contagious as a good example. Soon the whole ward will look "spic and span." Many of our meeting houses are sadly in need of a little work about the grounds. I knew of a ward in Salt Lake City that had had a meetinghouse built for twenty years before a lawn was put in. This is a shame to the people of that ward. They were indifferent to their love for civic beauty. One day given to the work, by all in the ward, — say perhaps a spring holiday — and the work could all have been done, — lawn, cement-walks, and flower-beds, laid, and the house of worship changed from an eyesore to a thing of beauty. Nothing can be done without organization; the thing must be done by the community as a whole. With a concerted effort, on the part of the sisters, I know wonders could be worked. The staking of animals, or allowing them to run loose does much to mar BEAUTIFYING THE HOME. 171 the beauty of our streets. In some of the country places, broken vehicles are allowed to stand, year in and year out, about the barnyards, and even in public places. Teach the children (for in them our future hopes lie) to say, "I will not throw paper or other rubbish where it should not be." Think of the money that might be saved if this one little thing were observed, in public parks and resorts. Let us look about us, and see where we can show greater love for civic beauty. A group of men and boys cleaning and beautifying the grounds of the Twentieth Ward meeting-house grounds, on Decoration Day, 1914. THE LAWN. By B. L. Richards, Instructor in Botany, Utah Agricultural College. The lawn, where possible, should be the accompaniment of every effort on the part of man to beautify the surroundings of the home. With the great movement toward the suburban and rural life there has come a corresponding increase of interest in the principles of making and maintaining the lawn. Lawn-making is not alone a problem of rural districts but equally that of the urban home. Every barren or weed-producing spot immediately surrounding the land-limited city home, though it be but a few square feet, should produce a mat of green grass. In its aesthetic effects there is nothing equal to it. The lawn to be a success must have permanency and beauty. These qualities demand a careful consideration and study of some of the fundamental principles of lawn-making. In all the operations 172 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. of home-beautifying there is none that demands more careful study. The lawn once planted, no matter what care it may receive, can never meet the demands of its owner unless a certain amount of preparation has been made for the seed. No amount of attention and care can compensate for defective soil. The making of lawns is ultimately a local problem, but there are a few general principles applicable to all conditions. In lawnmaking we are concerned, first of all, with the home of the plants; second, with sufficient food for their growth, third, with the preparation of a seed-bed, and, finally, with the selection and planting of the right kind and amount of seed. Carelessness in any one of these steps results in a permanent defective condition that can never be corrected. In the home of the plant we are concerned primarily with the soil. But few localities ever provide ideal soil for the establishment of good lawns. Ordinarily, the lawn is immediately surrounding the residence. The soil in this locality is usually far from being the normal soil of the region. It is greatly modified by debris from building operations or the process of filling. The problem of the lawn-maker is not, therefore, the converting of normal soil, but abnormal soil into a suitable place for the growing of grass. In the outset, it is safe to say that soil which will not produce good potatoes, for example, or other crops profitably is unsafe soil for the lawn. In other words, soil in a cultivated condition is desirable. Soil around the home usually does not furnish this condition, and should be modified by covering or cultivating. Building debris should never be within three feet of the surface. If the refuse from building and other rubbish cannot be covered to this depth, it is more economical, in the long run, to remove it by some other means. The earth from the excavation should also be covered to at least a depth of six inches, as it has not the properties for plant-growth. Often the productivity of soils depends quite as much upon the nature of the soil or underlying soil as upon the soil in which the grasses are placed. Where soil is hauled in, it should always come. from the upper layer of some productive field, preferably from some cultivated area, as this gives an additional protection against weeds. These factors are too often overlooked, greatly to the disappointment of the owners of lawns. The type and texture of the soil has much to do with the water-holding capacity, which is the one big factor in lawn production. Where there is much modifying of the soil it is imperative to keep this factor in mind. Even though this is not so important where water is plentiful, yet provision for the disposal of excessive moisture through proper drainage and the rapid supplying of water from the greater depths furnishes ideal conditions BEAUTIFYING THE HOME. ' 173 for all the natural processes in the soil, such as creation. sanitation and the activity of the lower forms of life, all of which are necessary for plant growth. Soil textures are exceedingly variable, and although productive can be modified greatly to the increased growth of lawns. The soil when productive and well drained is very well suited for the growth of a permanent and even lawn. For the control of the moisture it is perhaps superior to any other type. The difficulty of cultivation and preparation of a good seed-bed can be overcome by an incorporation of a fine sand or sandy loam within the first two or three inches. This soil should also be provided with plenty of organic matter in the form of stable manure. A good clay loam is splendid for lawns, where a provision is made for the proper supply of organic matter. Coarse, sandy soil is unsuited for the lawn, as it is very low in its water holding capacity and especially poor in conduction of water when needed from lower depths. Such soils, however, can be greatly improved by thorough mixing with productive clay. Fine, sandy soil, when underlain with a clay subsoil, produces good permanent lawns, but this type of soil can also be much improved by the incorporation of class. Having provided a proper subsoil, and a productive upper layer of from six to twelve inches, the next problems, as stated, are the provision of plant food and the preparation of the soil for seeding. Fortunately in the Intermountain region nature has supplied her soils with plenty of the mineral constituents necessary for plant life. In most cases, however, it is necessary in the making of lawns to supply additional nitrogen in the form of stable manure. As the lawn is to be permanent, it is hardly possibly' to make the soil too rich in this ingredient which also helps materially in modifying the texture of the soil. From twenty-five to forty loads to the acre can be applied in most cases with safety. This manure cannot be too thoroughly mixed with the soil. The first step in the preparation of the soil for the seed is that of proper leveling. Where filling or the supplying of soil from other localities has occurred, the soil should be well rolled, or sufficient time allowed for settling. Great care should then be taken in making the soil perfectly level or of the desired contour. Grass seed is very small and every precaution should be taken to bring the seed in close contact with the soil. This may be accomplished only by producing a very fine and homogeneous seedbed, at least three inches in depth. After planting, the ground should be thoroughly raked or rolled and then followed by a fine spray of water. The 3^oung grass seedings are very tender and should never be allowed to become dry after the seed is put into the ground. To prevent this drying out and killing of the seed174 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Jings the lawn is often covered with a thin coat of straw or fine manure. However, when water can be applied daily this precaution is unnecessary, if there is sufficient organic matter in the soil to prevent baking. Upon banks where lawns cannot be established by the seeding method, it is often possible to remove sufficient sod from some place where suitable grass has become well established to cover the entire area. This process is successful but entails considerable expense and makes possible the introduction of undesirable grasses and other weeds. Only sod grown for this purpose can be used with safety. The best time for planting is as yet a disputed question. Some favor the spring and others the fall planting. This question must be solved by a consideration of the soil and weather conditions peculiar to the locality. Spring planting should be done as soon as the ground can be safely worked. September and October are both good months for fall planting. In either case seeding just before the occurrence of long dry-spells should be avoided or provided for. Lawn grass should never be allowed to go to seed. In order to secure a uniform sod over the entire area the plants should be kept in a luxuriant vegetative condition of growth. This can be done only by frequent use of the mower. As soon as the plants get two inches high the mower should be used. By keeping the grass at this height during the growing season, a uniform stand of grass can be obtained. If the soil is rich, the clippings may be removed, but if the soil is in need of organic matter, they should be allowed to remain on the ground. This latter method, if cutting is frequent, will not mar greatly the appearance of the lawn. The frequency of watering is entirely a local problem. The lawn should never be allowed to become dry. Owing to the rigid requirements made of lawn grasses those adapted for making of good lawns are few. The Kentucky bluegrass, redtop, and the fescue grasses have all been recommended for our region. The Kentucky bluegrass, 6 lbs. to 3 lbs. of redtop with 1 lb. of white clover as a nurse crop, have been frequently used; however, Kentucky bluegress and white clover are used more frequently and have given better results than any other combination in Utah. This should be planted in the proportion of one pound white clover to six pounds Kentucky bluegrass. One quart to the three hundred square' feet, or about one pound per square rod makes a good, close coat. The white clover produces a beautiful lawn quickly, and answers for a nurse or protective crop for the young, tender Kentucky bluegrass which does not become permanently established until the second year. 175 BEAUTIFYING THE HOME. Nothing but seed of the purest type should ever be used. The introduction of weeds or other grasses with the seed often results in the destruction of the lawn. Guaranteed seed is expensive but is ultimately the cheapest. Jerries, Fruit Trees and Vegetable Garden on a City Lot. WHAT IS TO BE GAINED FROM THE HOME GARDEN By Perceny D. Greaves, of the Utah Agricultural College. The slogan "back to the soil" has started a great, world-wide movement, and we cannot afford to be blocks in the way, but be up and awake and ready to help it along. In all ages great improvements and reforms have been worked up slowly little at a time, taking years for the average person to recognize its worth. City kitchen and roof gardens, and also garden cities, have long been encouraged in foreign countries and in large cities, and it has spread until almost every progressive state is working in line with this movement. The Philadelphia Vacant Lot. Cultivation Association have published their report, for 1911, and its contents are so encouraging that I quote from it. The Association received more applications for land than it was able to fill, a fact which, although it indicates an unfortunate need of employment among the poor, shows, at the same time, the genuine interest which is being taken in this useful and healthful form of labor. As it was, three hundred and eight families, comprising eleven different nationalities, were assigned gardens during the year on seventy-two acres of land. 176 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Every family can have a garden. If there be not a foot of land there are porches or windows. Wherever there is sunlight, plants may be made to grow, and one plant in a tin can may be a more helpful and inspiring garden to some minds than a whole acre of lawn and flowers are to others. The satisfaction derived from a garden does not depend upon its area, nor, happily, upon the cost or variety of the plants. It depends upon the temper of the individual. For one must seek to love plants and understand nature. Then gardening takes on new aspects, for if we stop to consider the marvelous changes which take place during the transformation of a seed to a plant, we find miracles as great as those recorded in Holy Writ. What a wonderful transformation it is that changes the inert soil and air into the constituents within the pungent pepper-cress or the delicious flavor of the strawberry! Furthermore, if we will but look within the dark, apparently unchanging, soil, we find it not a lifeless mass, but teeming with countless millions of tiny life toiling night and day to render it fit for the growing plant; and then, when we read Dr. Russell's admirable description of the struggle which is continually going on in the soil, and contemplate the marvels that are being wrought within it and within the body of our living plant, work in our garden takes on new and interesting aspects. This is not all, for we need but stop to examine the beauty, the form and symmetry, of the plants to realize the full significance of the words, "The meanest flower that grows contains marvels too deep for the human mind to fathom." The benefits resulting from this work are many-sided. Not only does it materially help to raise the standard of the individuals themselves, by giving to many families the opportunity to grow wholesome food and earn their own living under healthful conditions, but in transforming vacant and often ugly city lots and idle tracts of land into beautiful and productive areas, it benefits the whole community. How much better it would be for women to spend one of the early hours of each day tending a row of strawberries or raspberries, thus furnishing a beautiful and delicious dish for their table, and, at the same time, enjoying the pure air and health-giving sunshine, than standing over a hot stove in a stuffy little kitchen making pastry. Furthermore, it brings health to the children, who, if given fresh air and exercise, with their rich, red blood and strong lungs, are like little stone walls blocking the way of disease in time of contagion. Not only have the children been improved in health, but the men, women and children engaged in the work, get ideal exercise spending their time in the open air which not BEAUTIFYING THE HOME. 177 only affects the families directly connected with gardens, but it has a continual influence through their habits upon their neighbors. In these days when the importance of manual training is being forced to the front more than ever before, there has been found no method with greater educational powers than gardening. In addition to training the eye, the mind, and the hand together, in proper relations, gardening trains the worker to use great foresight. This is undoubtedly one of the necessary lines of training in preparing children for their industrial work. Then, there is the economic side of the question, for the vegetables as bought from the green grocer's are too often partly spoiled, over-ripe and the like, the inferior part often artfully concealed within a few fresh vegetables. But, what a disappointment when they are to be served! We find that what appears to be a nice bunch has dwindled down to a mere handful. This is not the case with the home-grown material, for it is brought directly from the garden to the kitchen, free from decay and mould which will always linger in the purchased vegetables. How much more appetizing are the fresh radishes, lettuce, pepper-cress from the home garden, than the wilted, sickly-looking, ill-smelling stuff which too often comes from the green-grocer's. But this is not all, for often the purchased vegetables, especially those which are to be served fresh, contain the germs of some deadly disease. There are numerous cases on record where typhoid fever cases have occurred and have been traced to the lettuce and radishes which had been grown in night soil. The Government has investigated several outbreaks of this disease, and has proved conclusively that it was carried from the soil by green vegetables. We may think, "Well, in my case I am so careful in the washing of the vegetables that this could never occur in my family." But we must remember that experiments have shown that even the careful washing in water, much more careful than is done by the housewife, is not sufficient to remove these disease germs. If it were only the few disease-producing germs which may happily to get into the soil that find their way onto the vegetable, we could probably neglect that, but how about those which come from the hands of the pickers while the vegetables are displayed in the open in the customers case many the green grocer's where they can receive germs from the many customers who are continually entering the store. And furthermore, the number and kind of germs are now and then increased by each whiff of wind which dirt picks the dirt from the sidewalk and carefully deposits upon the lettuce, or perchance the strawberries. And, in this case, we are not alone dealing with the typhoid germ, but the tuberculosis and possibly even worse invaders. The freshness of home-grown vegetables cannot be equalled. They are free from disease germs. If one raises just enough for 178 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. one's own use, he is saving' that amount of money. If one wishes to market the garden, one need only look around to see what is in demand. For instance, even in little towns, hundreds of dollars of 'parsley is sold, and this can be raised in almost any corner. Anyone can start a garden or a picture, but only an artist can finish one perfectly, for it is much easier, as everyone knows, to lay out pictures and to plan gardens than it is to bring them to satisfactory completion. The first bold, sweeping strokes and plans are always full of promise, appealing strongly to the imagination, but when each detail has been carefully worked out, the result is often disappointing. The average gardener, whether professional or amateur, finds greater joy in seeing his garden grow and respond to his care than to walk about in it after, it is all matured. It is well not to attempt to do in one year all the things that a garden spot suggests. Try a few things at a time and improve each year. A garden has a real value in dollars and cents as shown by the following: If we take, for example, a family of four persons, twenty cents per day would be very reasonable for vegetables and small fruit. For the garden season it would mean $32.50. Now, if one had a variety in one's garden he could easily use twice that amount. Then there are the flowers, and what a luxury it is to have flowers in the garden and cut flowers for the house. We must not forget the flower side pf the garden, if we cannot have any more than a row of poppies in the vegetable garden and a bunch of goldenglow or hollihocks in a corner. Can one guess the effect this will have on the child, who thus learns to love nature and sees beauties which to others are invisible! Then, when we have instilled into the child this love for beauty, all the ugly, vacant lots will soon be cared for. This subject has been treated mostly from the viewpoint of the child, for the older members of our state have always been taught to have a garden and keep close to nature and be self-supporting. In the first days of Utah, soon after Brigham Young arrived at Salt Lake, he plotted the land and allowed each head of family one and one-fourth acre and told him to provide for his family. Now, if the older people of today could but help start the next generation out in this line by setting the example and interesting the children, the young would do much more with the advice, sympathy and encouragement of their father and mother or older friends. LOGAN, UTAH. Thanksgiving. If life was what we made it, And brightest dreams came true, There'd be no sin nor sorrow, To burden me and you. But crosses come to every heart. And life will fade and die; Life's mission is for other things. To turn our thoughts on high. If you have worldly riches. Be thankful for your wealth. If you are free from sickness. Be thankful for your health. If you are down in poverty, 'Tis surely no disgrace; Be thankful, and with joy Life's toil and struggle face. While you are in life's morning. So young, so gay, and free, O turn your thoughts in gratitude For what God giveth thee; 'Twill make your pathway sweeter, 'Twill lead your hopes on high. The years will bring you greater joy. For gratitude can't die. And later, when life's scenes may change, When the bitter cup you drain. If all that made life bright seems gone. Your prayers are not in vain. If gratitude is in your heart. No sorrow can subdue That precious gift which God will lend To aid and comfort you. You'll find your sorrow you can bear. If you will thank your God Who sends forth rain and sunshine While you pass beneath His rod. Life's ills are Heaven's best blessings. They're sent in love to earth; Let's not forget who sent them. They'll prove what we are worth. BASALT, IDAHO. MARIE JENSEN. Clothing for the Woman Past Forty. The Two Sarahs. MATERIALS. Clothing materials are chiefly products of the animal and vegetable kingdom, and may be classified as follows: Animal: wool, hair, skins, silk, feathers; vegetable: cotton, flax, jute, hemp, and India rubber. Wool. silk, linen, and cotton, form the foundation of all textiles; and are the principal fabrics used for clothing materials. Wool is the skin appendage of the sheep, and has been used for clothing purposes from the earliest times. As a non-conductor of heat, wool takes the foremost place in clothing fabrics. It also quickly absorbs moisture, and does not readily become damp with perspiration. : Its open, rough structure makes it further capable of holding a certain amount of air as well as of allowing free ventilation. It is also strong and durable, and possesses the best characteristics of good dress material. Owing to its elasticity, it greatly resists outside forces, besides retaining its original softness during wear. Many woolen fabrics are reversible. Serges are the most popular of all woolen goods. They are capable of resisting very hard wear; as a rule twilled materials are the best for general service. Cotton is a vegetable fibre obtained from the downy lining of the seed food of the cotton plant. When blended with wool, it is extensively used in the making of cheap clothes; its power of conducting heat is greater than either wool or silk. Linen is obtained from the flax plant — a small, delicate, annual, with a tiny blue flower. As a clothing material, it should not be placed in close proximity to the skin, as it is a very good conductor of heat. We sincerely hope the "made-in-the-United States of America" movement has come to stay. Our leading merchants are showing some of the new spring styles, — the short flare jacket with ripple skirts, and the flaring model with yoke made of gabardine, serge and broadcloth. The revival of covert cloth has brought about a return of gray and brown. The full skirt has come to stay, and we are once more permitted to move with ease and grace. The waist line is now up and now down. One fashion book has said the waist-line is mad as a March hare. Some of the popular colors for spring wear are sand color. Belgian blue, battle-ship gray, and putty. The following materials will be used for the summer sea CLOTHING FOR THE WOMAN PAST FORTY. 181 son: Foulard in polkadot and check designs; also crinkley satin, satin crape, stripped and dotted crape-de-chine, falle — a new taffeta made in the United States. For sheer cotton materials, marquesette, voile, net, and soft silks and ratine are appropriate. Long, close-fitting sleeves made of shadow lace, or other transparent material, lined with net or chiffon are used for evening wear. The longerie blouse has come to us once more, with revived popularity. Shoulder yokes of one kind or another are shown; chiffon composes the blouse, and satin the deep crushed (girdle. When making a silk waist, stitch a crescent-shaped piece of the same material under the arm. It will wear longer, and when the outer side wears out, it will look neater than a patch. To work button holes on lace, place a piece of thin goods underneath where the button-hole is to be worked, baste in place, cut the button-hole through the lace and goods after it has been worked. Cut away the goods so that it will not show. Slip a piece of pasteboard three or four inches long into the hem when sewing braid on a dress. You can sew more quickly, and your stitches will not show on the right side. REGARDING INSURANCE. Word has reached this office that unscrupulous life insurance agents, throughout the state, have been trying to hinder the work of our Burial Insurance Committees by saying that the Beneficial Life Insurance Company had sold out to the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. All of this is absolutely false. The Beneficial Life Insurance Company is one of the most stable institutions in this state, or in the West. It is headed by President Joseph F. Smith, and the officers are men of known probity and integrity. Surely, our sisters do not need any further guarantee of good faith. If you can be converted to the need of burial insurance, we invite you to insure with the Relief Society agents, and thus provide for yourself and families in case of your death. Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. STATE. It is to be hoped that, in view of the present food outlook, the tillers of the soil in this intermountain region will have a specially large area of wheat from which to reap an abundant harvest for 1915. The "wheat number" of the Relief Society Magazine was a most timely issue, as those can testify who took the hint therein and garnered a supply of grain before the marked rise in prices which occurred shortly after that number was issued, and was caused by conditions which few people had foreseen only a few weeks before. For several months past the wife of Utah's senior Senator, Mrs. Allie Smoot, has been seriously ill in Washington, where her husband has an arduous duty to perform as a leading representative of his native state. Sister Smooth's illness is truly regrettable, for she has -been a potent factor in aiding her husband to meet and bear the heavy responsibilities which have rested upon him, and ever to Utah's credit. The many thousands of her sisters of the Relief Society will hope earnestly for her speedy and complete restoration to health. The development of an Indian trouble in the mountainous region of southeastern Utah causes deep regret in all parts of the State. A posse of officers failed to surprise the Indians who were lying in wait for them, and several persons, most of them Indians, were killed in the fighting which ensued. Later, efforts were made to persuade the Indians to submit, and also to give up the one of their number for whom a warrant of arrest had been issued on a charge of murder. In dealing with the red men in early times, when the Indian question was of really great importance in Utah, President Brigham Young insisted on giving the persuasive treatment first and determined trial, and found his policy usually crowned with success. international. The Russian ukase which forbids the manufacture, sale, or use of "vodka," or intoxicating liquor, is simple and effective. It places under the ban all spirituous, vinous or fermented liquors that carry over five percent of alcohol and are in any form to be used or converted into a beverage. This eliminates entirely all CURRENT TOPICS. 183 strong drink, while it permits mild drinks from either grains, fruits or herbs. Six months ago, Germany demanded that Italy should join her in the war. Now, Germany insists that Italy shall remain neutral. The trend, however, seems to be for Italy ultimately to enter the war as the direct antagonist of Austria. "Germany is fighting starvation," is the way some leading German newspapers describe the present European situation. This is a state of affairs very different from the popular idea of six months ago that Germany could subsist for five years with her internal production of food. With its earthquakes and floods, Italy has suffered more severe losses lately than in any of the recent wars in which that nation has engaged. In this connection, it is notable that now, for the first time in history, there has been a great war and great earthquakes and floods in the same vicinity at the same time. For many decades Great Britain and France have been the real support of Turkey, on the theory that the latter government was necessary to the "balance of power" in Europe. Now that it has attempted to throw the "balance" against those nations, the Ottoman empire is to them no longer useful as a government of influence, and it is likely Russia will be given access to the Mediterranean through the Dardanelles, while the Holy Land will likely come under Christian influence for the first time in many centuries. This latter influence, too, has undergone a change from the former conditions, and is friendly to the Jews, rather than hostile. The international discussion over the steamship Lusitania, an English-owned passenger vessel, using a neutral flag — that of the United States — to avoid destruction by a German submarine, has proved a "tempest in a teapot." There was no misuse of the American flag in this instance, notwithstanding the clamor, since it is an unbroken international custom for passenger vessels to protect their non-combatant human cargo in times of emergency by flying a neutral flag. This was done by American vessels in the Civil war, and has been done in every war of magnitude where maritime powers have been engaged. Further, in this instance, the American passengers on board the Lustitania were strictly within their rights in demanding the hoisting of the Stars and Stripes, since they had as much right to protection on a foreign ship as in a foreign country when that flag is hoisted as a shield to Americans who may be in danger. A Prince of Ur. By Homespun. Ischa was a true child of her fierce Accadian forefathers. The wild passions that beat at her heart's gateway, were but held in temporary check through the environment which the upbringing in Terah's palace had given her. Aided by a thousand temptations both within and without her own soul, she was just now standing at the very threshold of her life, and, either for evil or for good — who holds the issues — self or God — she was to choose, once and forever. "Was it not wise for me to stay within?" queried the voice of Zillah. 'T stood and made the secret signs for thee all through this long and triumphant interview. If 'twere not for my doing so, mayhap the lady Sarai had given thee more to think about." Ischa looked twice at her slave-woman. She both feared and distrusted her. But so carefully had the slave planned, so cunningly had she wrought upon the emotions and passions of her mistress that she was not the slave but rather was she mistress. And so the lady Ischa nodded her head as she called her servants from the courtyard to attend their evening duties. "Will your Highness permit the visit of your kinsman Mardan to communicate his news to thee " so spake the black woman, Zillah, an hour later as she bowed low before the couch of the Princess, Sarai. "News? Of the Petesi?" "That is not given me to tell thee. Mardan but asks for audience," replied the slave. "Then summon the ladies of the household. Ischa, Milcah. Irit, and lay thou our dutiful salutations before the mother of our lord Mardon, wise Merab, with notice of this conference." "'Tis thee he seeks, not the household," said Zillah. "Then shall we honor him the more with the riches of our countenance. Edra, quick, call the musicians, give them place in the upper gallery. Give incense freshly to the vases, and flowers to the bowls. We shall receive our kinsman as befits his rank." Fireflies touched the outer twilight with occasional light flashes, while just now the distant temple bells were calling out insistent reminders of the solemn worship of Ischtar which would begin when the moon climbed above the low horizon at midnight. The music began, first with one throbbing note on some delicate stringed instrument, a zither perhaps, and the fragile melody was A PRINCE OF UR. 185 caught and emphasized after a slight pause by the clash of harps, zithers, kerens, kinnors and cymbals. They beat the soft evening shades with pulsing melody, first of a twitter as if evening birds were settling in their river marsh beds. Then, with crashing single major chords, they filled the whole courtyard with the bolder tramp of armed men, and this merged again into single melodies as if the heart were tired of arms and war, and voiced its silent cry of human pain through the medium of flute and string. Human voices fluttered in and out of the melodies, so delicately and subtly merged that one could scarcely tell when harp began or voice left off. The trains of stately women who were thus hastily bidden to Sarai's salon slowly emerged into the open lighted and fragrant space of the courtyard, two of the maidens claiming quick and tense attention from the man who had but entered the enclosure. It was Mardan, and he was both astonished and annoyed to find that his covert invitation to speak with the head of the women of Petesi's household should have been bunglingly construed to include the whole harem. "My Princess," he breathed with sudden emotion choking his ready utterance, and bowing low before the lady who watched him with serene countenance, "I am overpowered with thy gracious presence, and with the favor of these my kinswomen." The Lady Sarai was indeed as a light in dark places. Others were tall, she was not noticeable for that alone. Some were gracious, in a land where dignity and grace are as life to all of gentle blood; but the superb carriage of her queenly head and supple form affected one as does music, or wine, or sunlight on the Euphrates River at dawn. There were eyes of others whose colors matched the royal jacinth; but these were wells of such 'limpid glory that it was sweet just to look within and lose thought and reason in sheer emotion — whether of pleasure, hope, love or envy depended on the one who was caught in the net of charm woven by their translucent depths. The curling hair, now bound with a scarf of sheer weaving from the looms of Damascus, shone even through that shroud with blue-black luster and the allurement of the twisted ropes of dusky braids was felt when sight could not penetrate the wimple's secret. The features were proudly and finely molded by the finger of the gods who loved beauty and comeliness in woman. The cheek was sunkissed Rose of Sharon, while the graciously curved lips were glowing as the heart of the ripe pomegranate. Each feature was perfect with a human perfection which cast the veil of fascination about her whole presence. She was a woman to build kingdoms, or to destroy men. Those who came into her presence for the first time were shaken as if a sudden wind or fire had filled their veins. "The salutations of thy mother," said the beauteous Sarai^ 186 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "mingles with the welcome given thee by these my kinswomen." And as she spoke she indicated with sweeping gesture the others who were disposed about her person. "The Lady Ischa is the moon-goddess of comeliness and grace," and Mardan again salaamed low before that lady who was eyeing him with visible contempt. "Ischa's tongue travels straight paths, even if her light be the reflected one of inferior charm." The tart tones might have disconcerted the courtier, but he was on his guard. He turned quietly to the other two slighter maidens who both accepted his salutations with diffidence and indifference. The dark elfin eyes of Irit betrayed the enjoyment she felt in thus sharing the visit which she felt sure was intended only for the Princess Sarai. But the dove-like gaze of Milcah rested calmly upon Mardan with the trustful confidence and guilelessness of a soul unfitted to struggle with austere or subtle problems. "Hast thy news to do with the return of the Petesi, or our progenitor curiosity. Terah?" asked Milcah in all simplicity and eager Mardan smiled candidly. "Thou hast the divination of the simple, sweet kinswoman. My news has to do with the return — not of our father Terah — but with the coming of our kinsman — Abram — who color on is — didn’t the cheek speakmatched of Sarai — my Princess?" matched the feverish bright bloom the cheek of her cousin, Isca. But neither had spoken. Mardan kept his bulbous blue eyes on the radiant countenance of the Princess Sarai. "Doth his coming mean so much to thee, my Princess?" he asked. The question was so shrewdly aimed to catch her in its toils that Sarai proudly turned her face away, without answering.* "Abram rode this morn within these walls." Only the quickened breathing of all the maidens gave answer to this unexpected news. Then Milcah asked again: "And is my lord Abram in good health? Comes he here to stay, or on passing visit, as in twenty years gone by?" "That thou must question of him. He is here, filled with crude and primitive ideals, ready to condemn those who differ, or to crush any who oppose." If Mardan hoped to prejudice his listeners, he should have chosen better weapons. The lady Ischa looked contemptuously at him. "How gracious and kingly must be the Prince of Ur," she purred insolently, "to create envy in the breast of the polished courtier Mardan." Again on his guard, Mardan assumed an unhappy and downcast air as he cast off this thrust. A PRINCE OF UR. 187 "Abram is a mountain and I a mound; he is favored of God and man, I make my way with pain and suffering up the eminences of life. Yet have I kept my pity for those who cannot even climb, but must drag painfully along life's highway." The eyes of the Princess Sarai were clouded with the annoyance she felt in the ever expressed antagonism of these two, Mardan and Ischa, who should be friends and good companions. "Cease," she said quietly, and when her voice first fell upon the ear all the other charms of face and form were forgotten in the exquisite melody of her flute-like tones. "This is no time for difference, nor for strife. Let us at once to the preparation of the household for the welcome of our guest and long-absent kinsman." "Thy zeal hath been forestalled — the cooks are at the fire, the slaves are in the fields and river, the keepers of the Chests are already uncovering all the treasures of carpet and loom." "Thank thee, Mardan, for thy kindly haste. But there be other things that only women's hands may do to brighten and beautify these ancient halls. Shall we consider this visit at an end?" The dismissal was so gently given, the smile which accompanied it was so tenderly gracious that Mardan bowed himself to the earth, and remained so while the now fluttered cortege swept into their retreats. The princess Sarai turned back, hesitatingly, as if drawn by an impulse of which she was modestly ashamed. "Asked the prince Abram concerning his kinswomen?" she queried. Mardan's face was eloquent of sympathy as he made answer, "The Prince made courteous inquiry of all the ladies of the harem but spoke no one's name save that of my mother, gracious lady." The princess was now on her guard, against the betrayal of whatever maidenly curiosity she may have felt. She was a princess, as well as a woman. So she parried lightly. "The Prince Abram will have much to do. He is needed in this unhappy palace and city. His may be the hand to crush out this monstrous pagan idolatry." "The Prince loves his own ambition well enough to seek fame and fortune at any costs. He has the bravery of exploitation, and the daring of covetousness." The lady looked at the frank and bland face of her handsome kinsman with a somewhat puzzled gaze. This was a new aspect of this cautious and courteous smiling cousin of hers. _He was wont to praise all men. Why now should he accuse? His praise was too often glaring in its crude crass extreme. But why should he now speak with acid tongue. Was the Prince Abram already proven false and untrue? 188 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "My lady Sarai, I have words to say in thine ear that must be conveyed to thee through the lips of my mother. For thou art so pure and so exalted in thy spirit and character that only in the guarded manner of our ancestors might I dare to express the ardor of my sentiments. May my mother seek thee on thee on the morrow?” Sarai was touched to the heart. The delicacy of such an row?" evident appeal to the dearest traditions of their Semite race concerning the sacred rites of courtship melted her as no other appeal could have done. Her eyes shone with so much lustrous approval that Mardan had much ado in controlling himself to keep within the pales of his own discreet resolution. "Your mother shall receive audience from me in good time, my dear kinsman, and I shall gladly seek her for that counsel and trust. But let me rest, kinsman Mardan, for some days, nay weeks; there is so much of graver moment that I shall have no time or pleasure in the contemplation of mine own affairs." With a brilliant smile, the lady swept onward with that half-gliding, half springing step that again centered the attention of all near her as if there were both an inward grace of allurement and an outer strength of purpose which combined to focus all eyes upon her when present and which made all places seem vacant and dim when her gleaming presence was withdrawn. Mardan stood wrapt in emotion as he watched Sarai disappear, followed by the soft-moving crowd of ladies-in-attendance who made up her court. "There must be no meeting between the Prince of Ur and the Lady Sarai till the presence of Terah and Nimrod fasten my claim to her. I have the promise of Terah.. Nimrod must be won." So spoke Mardan to Zillah. who had lingered behind the cortege. "Abram — Sarai? Zillah shall cast the augurs," replied the black princess, moodily, yet firmly, as she withdrew to carry out her supersitious purpuse. (To Be Continued.) If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue, Or walk with Kings — nor lose the common touch, If neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you, If all men count with you, but none too much: If you can fill the unforgiving minute With sixty seconds' worth of distance run. Yours is the Earth and everything that's in it, And — which is more — you'll be a Man. my son!" From Rewards and Fairies — Rudyard Kipling. Early Development of the Textile Art. Rose H. Widtsoe. THE EVOLUTION OF SPINNING AND WEAVING. Perhaps nowhere in literature do we get a more satisfying picture of ideal home life than is described by Longfellow. He portrays the entire family seated around the great, open fire-place, the father reading aloud out of the family Bible, the mother or an older daughter, accompanying the reading with the gentle whirr of the spinning wheel. Unfortunately, the poetic side of primitive home industries is only half the story. Contrasting strongly with homes where this very slow, arduous work was done under pleasant conditions, we have facts which picture to us the hut where the weaver's family lived and worked, without conveniences, without good air, without satisfying food, and without much intelligence. Drunkenness and theft made many homes the scenes of crimes and want and disorder. Superstition ruled the workers. If a certain member of a family, endowed with more virtue and intelligence than the others, tried so to conduct himself as to secure at least self-respect, he was either abused or ostracised by his family and by his neighbors. The reports of the Poor Laws Commissioners of England are truer exponents of the actual conditions existing among people who depended upon these slow hand-industries for a livelihood, than any other authority; and they show the demoralizing agency of pauperism and of all the evils which were so prolific under the hand-system of work. The art of spinning and weaving were very slow in their evolution. History has never discovered the beginnings of these two industries. We are convinced by means of relics and unwritten history that these industries were in existence many years before Christ. The spinning wheel is supposed to have been introduced into Europe about 1530, and from time to time, little changes were made which improved it. The loom of the eighteenth century did not differ greatly from that of the tenth century, and the spinning wheel of 1830 was still in use. Spinning is the process whereby fibers are combined in such a manner that they produce a continuous thread. The simplest method of making a thread is to draw out of a clump of wool or other material a small amount of the fiber, twisting it as it is drawn. The thread thus drawn is then wound on a stone or other convenient object. It was gradually discovered that if the thread were fastened to the stone and the whole twirled, the thread 190 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. could be twisted faster, and one hand would be left free to draw the fibers out from the mass. Among ancient relics, sticks, or spindles, as they are called, are found with a slit or hook at the end in which the thread was caught. The spinner, holding her wool in one hand, drew out a twist of fiber and fastened it to the hook in the end of her spindle which she then rubbed between her palm and her hip, causing it to revolve rapidly. She then dropped the spindle, and with her free hand regulated the amount of fiber it should draw out. Soon it was discovered that a full spindle revolved better than an empty one, so a disc of clay or wood, called a whort, was attached. This simple tool was used in all parts of the world for many centuries. The next step in the evolution of the spinning wheel was the addition of a simple device to hold the unspun fibers, a stick called a distaff, which could be slipped into the belt or held under the arm, thus leaving both hands free to manage the thread. Not for several hundred years was the spinning wheel invented. This combined the spindle and the distaff in one machine, which had a large wheel, turned sometimes by a foot-treadle, sometimes by hand. The wheel was connected by a string acting as a belt, with the spindle, which in this case was placed in a horizontal position. In the end of the bench which holds the wheel and spindle, and just above the latter, was the distaff on which the raw fiber was placed. The spinner stood or sat before the wheel and with skilful fingers drew the fiber out into a fine thread. In Colonial days, every household had its spinning wheel, and the daughters of the family were eagerly taught to spin. Amongst our own pioneers, the spinning wheel was a common possession. In the early days, in Europe and in our own country, linen and woolen were the fibers most used. Cotton is much more difficult to spin by hand than linen or wool. Cotton was not generally used in this country until a much later date. The Hindu, however, has used cotton for hundreds of years, and still spins the finest yarns without a spindle. To show how expert the spinner might become, it is "stated that in England one pound of cotton fiber was spun into one hundred and sixty-seven miles of yarn; but it was impossible to weave it. To prepare wool for hand spinning, the mass of fibers was untangled by cards, which were made of wires set into wood or more often leather, and were used like brushes. By the old method, the wool was often grown, sheared, washed, carded, and spun by one household. By the modern machine method, the long series of processes is carried on by many different machines. The mill that spins the yarn may be far removed from that which weaves it into cloth and still another may bleach and dye it. Flax was more difficult to prepare. The woody fiber surrounding  DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEXTILE ART. 191 the flax had to be removed by a process of rotting or wetting in water, then breaking and combing. Although the method has been improved, the principles were the same as used at the present time. The Hindu method of separating the seed from the cotton fiber is interesting. The cotton gin consists of two teak wood rollers, fluted longitudinally, revolving nearly in contact, much like the modern clothes wringer. The cotton fiber is put at one side and drawn through by the revolving rollers, which leave the seed behind. The next process, called bowing, consists in cleaning the cotton by means of a long bow, made elastic by a complication of strings. This bow is laid on top of a pile of fiber, then struck with a mallet, and the vibration jars the dirt out of the cotton and also opens the knots. After bowing, the yarn is spun without carding. Weaving is the process of interlacing two sets of parallel threads at right angles to each other, to produce cloth. The art of weaving has gone through an evolution similar to that of spinning. As in spinning, so in weaving, the early stages of its development are lost in past ages. The intertwining of the branches of trees may have suggested weaving in more branches, to form shelter, or tree huts. The rushes from the river bank may have become entangled and suggested the weaving of mats; whatever their source, slowly the suggestions developed and grew in the mind of man, until eventually woven cloth was the result. What a wonderful accomplishment in the growing civilization of man! The implements necessary to supplement the skill of human hands were few and simple in the beginning of this art. Pictures on the walls of ancient Egypt show a very simple arrangement of threads stretched between two bars. Two weavers worked at one loom, which was too wide for one to reach across, and no shuttle was used. The threads woven in were only as long as the width of the loom, and thus a fringe was formed on each side. The early Greek woman stretched lengthwise her threads or warp between two bars, and stood before them interweaving the weft of her beautiful tapestry with painstaking care. The Navajo Indian loom furnishes the simplest type of loom at the present time. It consists of two poles between which the warp is stretched, one pole being fastened to the limb of a tree or to the top of two uprights set in the ground, while the other is fastened to the ground. The weaver sits on the ground in front of her loom, and, beginning at the bottom, works in her differently colored yarns, with the assistance of a shuttle. Alternate threads of the warp are fastened by a cord to a rod which, when raised, makes an opening for her filling thread. The rod is called the heald the opening the shed. The shed for the next filling thread is opened by a stick which passes between alternate threads of 192 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. the warp; a' heavy stick serves as a batten to beat the filling threads together. As she progresses with her blanket, the weaver rolls it up on the lower rod, and the top is lowered. As is the case with most primitive weaving, the cloth is woven the size desired and there is no cutting. Step by step, devices have been added to the loom; originally, the threads were beaten into place by a stick called the batten, then a rude comb was used. Finally, came the reed, a device much like the comb, but consisting of a frame, or lay, which might be swung back and forth to beat the threads into place. The heddle replaced the heald rod and consisted of a frame of wooden rods with a hole in each, one thread going through the hole, the next through the space between the bars. Alternate threads, by means of this implement, could first be raised above to pass through; then pushed below the others making a different shed. Thus, with one device, plain weaving could be accomplished. The modern harness performs the same function, but two harnesses are used to accomplish the work of the heald, each being raised in turn. The harness consists of a frame in which wires are strung, each wire having a loop in the center for the thread to pass through. The warp threads are put through two harnesses alternating, first one then the other; thus where one harness is raised half the warp is raised; with the other harness, the other half of the wrap. By having more than two harnesses and varying the threading of the warp, different weaves such as the twill weaves, sateen weaves, etc., can be made. For hundreds of years these crude implements were used for spinning and weaving. It was not until the middle of the eighteenth century that a great industrial revolution took place. It was in connection with the cotton trade that new life came to spinning and weaving. A series of remarkable inventions for manufacturing cotton cloth by machinery, revolutionized the whole textile industry as their use spread to wool, flax, and silk. Thus have the arts of spinning and weaving developed from a fireside industry to one of the greatest manufacturing industries of our time. AN OUTDOOR FIREPLACE. An old galvanized tub, turned upside down, and with a hole cut in its bottom to suit the kind of boiler to be used, makes an ideal outdoor fireplace for washdays. A small half circle is cut out, on the upper side, at the back, for the smoke, and another is cut in the lower side, at the front, for putting in fuel, and for draft. — Contributed by Mrs. Julia Bertelsman, San Angelo, Texas. The "Word of Wisdom." By Maud Baggarley. One of the most remarkable revelations ever given to man is the "Word of Wisdom." A revelation that contains a universal appeal, which means that it will live, and its power and influence increases as the centuries come and go. To one who observes the suggestions contained therein, great blessings are promised. To the physician and the thinker the "Word of Wisdom" must be a never failing source of wonder. The modern physician has felt the unknown lever, and unconsciously prescribes an observance of the "Word of Wisdom" to his patients, as a cure for disease. Athletes have always obeyed its teachings, for those God-given laws of health are laws of reason. Very likely every disease known to man might be directly traced to its non-observance. Yet, like other great mandates of the Almighty, we may accept or reject it; there is nothing compulsory about it. Since books, magazines and newspapers have become so plentiful and cheap, people have become better informed concerning many hitherto unknown subjects. Therefore, the average person knows that the various articles prohibited by the word of the Lord, such as tea, coffee, meat and alcoholic drinks, are harmful, and in most cases positively injurious. Tea is a universal antidote for poisons, especially arsenic, because of the tannic acid it contains. The principal constituent of coffee, is caffeine, a powerful heart-stimulant which is given in cases of severe poisoning, when life is in grave danger, also in cases of shock. It has other uses as a medicine. Ordinarily, it is the cause of many systematic disturbances especially of the functions of the heart and brain, and coffee-drinking, as a habit, ranks with the tobacco habit. Tobacco contains a deadly drug called nicotine and in time undermines the character and morals of those addicted to its use. Grains, vegetables and fruits have great and beneficial medicinal value, besides containing the proper elements to support life. Meat, which the revelation says should be eaten sparingly, preferably in times of famine and excessive hunger, or during the winter season, is probably the direct cause of about two-thirds of the ills man is heir to. It causes constipation, bad temper, and rheumatism, beside other diseases — the most dreaded known to science. 194 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Human beings may contract tuberculosis not only from cows, but probably from pork as well. Cows having tuberculosis in a stage where there are pus formations in their bodies, are killed in order that the milk and butter may not be a source of infection to man, and the flesh is sold by the butchers and served on your table — and mine! Both cows and hogs are unclean with disease, and are subject to frequent injections of serums to test their freedom from certain diseases, or to prevent them. A collection of government bulletins concerning diseases of cows, sheep, and hogs are a nauseous surprise to the meat eater. Hogs are subject to cholera and tuberculosis. Perhaps half the hogs killed are suffering from the great scourge. Meat-eating is a universal habit among many of the peoples of the earth who also die — perhaps as a direct result — of consumption. To him who eats grains, vegetables and fruit, who eats meat sparingly and uses only mild drinks — and surely pure cold water is the nectar of the Gods — the Lord has promised health, and has said: that he shall find wisdom, and great treasures of knowledge even hidden treasures; and shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. And above all, that the destroying angel shall pass him by. And most wonderful of all, these promises were not given to the great and mighty, but also to the humblest and weakest of the earth. It seems impossible that any intelligent person could read the "Word of Wisdom" without feeling the thrill of testimony that bears witness to its holy and divine origin. LISTEN! READ! REMEMBER! Complaints reach this office of subscribers who fail to get their Magazines. If our good friends will remember the following rules, a good deal of this trouble can be avoided. Head every letter with the address of the writer. Spell out first name. Add Mrs. or Miss to name. In changing address, give both the old address and the new one. Send complete post office address. If there is any R. F. D. number or box number, be sure and send it to us. Notes from the Field. RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE CONFERENCES. The Relief Society will hold stake conferences this year during the months of May, June, and November, in accordance with the plan outlined by the Correlation Committee, and approved by the authorities of the Church. The conferences in May, June, and July will be held in connection with the stake quarterly conferences, and will be for the following stakes: Alberta, Bannock, Bear Lake, Bear River, Beaver, Benson, Big Horn, Bingham, Blackfoot, Boise, Cassia, Cottonwood, Deseret, Duchesne, Emery, Fremont, Hyrum, Juab, Kanab, Malad, Maricopa, Millard, Moapa, Morgan, North Sanpete, Ogden, Oneida, Panguitch, Pocatello, Rigby, Saint George, Saint Johns, Saint Joseph, San Juan, San Luis, Sevier, Shelley, Snowflake, South Sanpete, Star Valley, Summit, Taylor, Teton, Tooele, Uintah, Union, Wasatch, Wayne, Woodruff, Yellowstone, Young. The conferences in November will not be held in connection with the stake quarterly conferences. They will be for the following stakes: Alpine, Box Elder, Cache, Davis, Ensign, Granite, Jordan, Bear River, Liberty, North Weber, Ogden, Pioneer, Salt Lake, Utah, Weber, Nebo. Carbon Stake Conference was held this year in March. Program for 1915, Stake Conferences: First Session. Public Session, Saturday 2:00 P. M. Conjoint meeting of Relief Society and Primary Association. As this is a session of the stake quarterly conference, the meeting will be held under the direction of the stake authorities. Address — "Place and Work of the Relief Society," by representative of the General Board of the Relief Society. Address — "Pioneer Work," representative of the General Board of Primary. Remarks: Second Session. Business Meeting. Saturday 4:30 or 7:30 P. M. Note: Hour to be decided by the Stake Board. Roll Call. 196 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Report of Stake by Stake President. Report of Relief Society activities by Stake officers or by chairman of Committees. Discussion. Third Session. Officers' Meeting. Sunday, 9:00 A. M. GENERAL CONFERENCE. The Annual April Conference of the Relief Society will be held in this city, on April 2nd and 3rd (Friday and Saturday). On Friday, April 2nd, two public meetings will be held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall at 10:00 a. m., and at 2:00 p. m. On Friday evening, there will be a musicale given by the General Choir Leader and her associates under the auspices of the General Musical Committee on the 4th floor of the Bishop's Building, at which light refreshments will be served, and an opportunity given for the General Board to meet their many friends and sisters throughout the Church, who may come to the General Conference. The meetings on Saturday will be for officers only, and will be held on the 4th floor of the Bishop's Building. These meetings will be held at 1:00 p. m., and 2:00 p. m., and will be devoted to business and departmental work. On Saturday, therefore, there will be ample opportunity for our visiting officers to learn more concerning their Lesson Work, Insurance, etc., while secretaries and treasurers may receive special instruction also. A Glimpse of Beautiful Home Conditions in One of Salt Lake's Choice Residence Sections, Highland Park. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 197 UTAH STAKE HOME IMPROVEMENT CONTEST. In connection with the work outlined in the Guide for Home Ethics and Gardening, for the year 1914, the committee of the Utah Relief Society Stake board, in charge of this division, conducted a Home Improvement Contest. First, second, and third prizes were offered to the three homes in each ward, showing the greatest improvement between April 1 and Sept. 1, 1914. The ward having the highest percentage of improved homes received a special prize of $25 which was given to the Ward Relief Society organization. The Relief Society Civic Committee in each ward canvassed homes in the spring, urging all to enter the contest. The eight wards of Provo entered, and five hundred and sixty homes were placed on the list. Of these four hundred remained in the contest during the entire season, and some very marked improvements in home grounds and surroundings were made. Three competent judges were selected for each ward, and they carefully canvassed their respective districts three times during the season. The following points were considered in making up the percentages: Cleanliness 25% Arrangement 15% Planting and growth of grass, trees, shrubs, vegetables, flowers, etc 30% Conditions of fences and out-buildings 10% Production from garden, flowers 20% This contest aroused considerable interest among the citizens of Provo in general. The business men contributed liberally to the prize fund of $170 which was distributed among the contestants in the various wards. LIFE'S PURPOSE. "But what if I fail of my purpose here? It is but to keep the nerves at strain, To dry one's eyes and laugh at a fall, And, baffled, get up and begin again." — Robert Browning. EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto — Charity Never Faileth. THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Alice Merrill Home Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beattie Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. II. APRIL, 1915. No. 4. THE SCOPE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. The Power Who can measure the heights of love, the breadth of of charity, or sound the depths of knowledge? Organized He only who created the universe. And He alone Womanhood. may compute the majesty and the power of the Society which was established in Nauvoo, March 17, 1842. The scope of our work, the possibilities of our development, are bounded only by woman's capacities and woman's eventualities. The Relief Society is as broad as eternity, as far-reaching as love. Any woman of excellent character may achieve membership in the Society. While all that is true, all that is beautiful, all hope, faith and mercy are enclosed within its boundaries. All Women Many women in the world, in pagan as well as Searching in Christian lands, have felt the impetus of the for Light. key