Vol. II MARCH, 1915 No. 3 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ORGANIZATION NUMBER EXTRA ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS ROOM 29. BISHOPS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH $1.00 a Year— Single Copy 10c WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO. NEWS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY OUR DRUG STORE IS COMPLETE PRICES RIGHT We Solicit Your Patronage Prompt Attention to Mail Orders TRY OUR QUICK LUNCH— IT'S DELICIOUS FRESH FLOWERS DAILY The Xmas Store for Men and Boys Choose now while assortments are most complete. Best possible values, of course. UTAH'S GREATEST CLOTHING STORE GARDNER & ADAMS CO. IN THE KEARNS BUILDING We give and redeem Security Vouchers Marion Banks FINE MILLINERY Charlton's HOLIDAY SPECIAL On Our Smart Lines of at reasonable Prices SUITS, GOWNS AND WAISTS Have you seen our new handker- GOODWIN CORSETS chiefs and neckwear? This ad. will redeem 10 per cent, on purchases at regular price. 242 SOUTH MAIN STREET PLAN YOUR GARDEN NOW You will find our Seed and Nursery Guide Book the most valuable assist- ant in telling you just what is worth while to plant in this climate. This book contains 112 pages fully illustrated just brimful of the information needed by every planter of Seeds, Plants, Shrubs, Roses and Trees. By securing it you will get the benefit of the thousands of experiments carried on at our Centerville Trials Grounds, and this alone is worth Dollars. You are entitled to a free copy of this valuable book. Mention this paper and write for it today. PORTER-WALTON CO Seed and Nursery Specialists for U. S A. SALT LAKE The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. 

CONTENTS. MARCH, 1915. 
Congratulations Betsy Goodwin 89 
Frontispiece — Masonic Lodge, Nauvoo 90 
Instruction of the Prophet 91 
Report of the Nauvoo Relief Society Eliza R. Snow 100 
The Genesis of the Relief Society Maud Baggarley 101 
The Textile Art Rose Widtsoe 102 
Dressmaking at Home The Two Sarahs 105 
Kitchen Kinks Jakie Discord 107 
Good Health Maud Baggarley 110 
Circular of the Relief Society 111
Prince of Ur Homespun 142 
Current Topics 
James H. Anderson 150 
Home Gardening 153 
Genealogy 154 
Notes from the Field 156 
Editorial 159 Guide Lessons 160 

ADVERTISERS' DIRECTORY, Patronize those who have made it possible for this paper to exist  
AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah.  
AMERICAN THEATER  
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Building, Salt Lake City.  
BUTLER'S BOOTERY, Salt Lake City.  
CO-OP. FURNITURE, 35 South Main St., Salt Lake City.  
CULLEN HOTEL.  
CUTLER'S 36 S. Main Street, Salt Lake City.  
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 S. Main, Salt Lake City.  
DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, 8 Main Street, Salt Lake City.  
P. W. DUNYON CO., 502 Templeton Building.  
JOSEPH J. DAYNES, 38 D Street.  
GARDNER ADAMS.  
JENSEN CREAMERY COMPANY, Salt Lake.  
KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 555 Main, 260 State Sts., Salt Lake City.  
McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City.  
OREGON BANKS, MARIAN SHORT Millinery, and CHARLTON'S SUIT & CLOAK CO., 321 LINE RAILROAD.  
PORTER-WALTON CO., Seedmen, Nurserymen and Florists, Salt Lake City.  
RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City.  
South Main, Salt Lake City.  
SCRACE'S BAKERY, 25 S. Main, Salt Lake City.  
S. M. TAYLOR & CO., UNDERTAKERS, 251-259 E. First South Street, Salt Lake City.  
THOMAS, Photographer.  
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City.  
WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO., 8 South Main, Salt Lake City.  
Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City.  
RELIEF SOCIETY HEADQUARTERS For Approved Garments and Ladies' Utah Made Dress Goods Postage Prepaid and Samples Sent on Request  
CUTLER'S, 36 Main Street  
Established 1860  
Incorporated 1906  
S. M. TAYLOR & CO. UNDERTAKERS AND EMBALMERS SUCCESSORS TO JOSEPH E. TAYLOR The Pioneer Undertaker of the West 33 years in one location 251-253-255-257 EAST FIRST SOUTH ST. SALT LAKE CITY.  
UTAH EFFICIENT SERVICE MODERN METHODS COMPLETE EQUIPMENT  
THE BIGGEST PERMANENT THEATRICAL FEATURE IN THE WEST— THE AMERICAN THEATRE CONCERT ORCHESTRA Under direction of PROF. J. J. McCLELLAN The finest pictures and the best music combine to make a wonderful entertainment for the money.  

CONGRATULATIONS ON THE BIRTH OF OUR BABY MAGAZINE

Betsy Goodwin.

In January, nineteen hundred and fifteen,
A book came forth: The Relief Society Magazine,
Organ of great worth.
From the heart of the Rockies
It burst into view,
Pure and sweet, as the mountain dew.
Of foster mothers it has a score.
And over the leaf I find three more.
Lovely women, noble and good,
Backed by the fathers, and the priesthood.
Blessed by a prophet, recorded and named
A friend of the poor, the needy or maimed.
It is mentally strong, and perfect in limb.
And though I am only a poor old relation,
I can send it at least, my dollar a year.
For its future development I have no fear.
I will watch it grow, like a small, planted seed,
To give us brain food in our time of need.
Like a carrier dove, to every sphere,
With its message of love, afar and near,
I can see it achieve a future so great
That it's sought for in every nation and state,
Welcomed by all; in castle or cot,
It belongs to us all, and caste is forgot.
Don't hurry its growth; give it chances to grow.
Sturdy and strong, although it be slow.
But there, you will need no advice of mine.
For some of its mothers are doctors divine.
You may object to my rhyming, and will, without doubt,
So I give you leave to cut it all out.
My thoughts are much better than my knowledge of rule.
As I helped push a handcart when I should have been at school.
But God knows all things, so I have no fear;
I have filled up my niche, as a good pioneer.
I ask God to bless our baby again.
With its message of peace, and good will to men.

MASONIC LODGE, NAUVOO,
Where the Relief Society was Organized, March 17, 1842.

This building was originally three stories high. The Masonic Lodge room or hall was in the third story. The original windows in the lower story were square, as if arranged for a store. The steps, now on the right side, were originally in the center, and a large double door faced them. The half circle window tops now on the lower story, were taken from the third story windows. Picture furnished by Mr. Rheimbold, Proprietor Oriental Hotel, Nauvoo, Ill.

THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. II. MARCH, 1915. No. 3.

Instructions of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Given to the Relief Society in Nauvoo.

We here present some precious truths and suggestions given to the women in Nauvoo by our honored

THE SONG OF THE WHEAT
Lovingly dedicated to Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells
Words by S. Y. G. Music by Evan Stephens.
[Sheet music notation follows]

THE women of the Relief Society have responded nobly to the appeal for subscriptions to this magazine. Even the missions have taken up the work, the North Western States Mission sending in nearly two hundred paid up subscriptions. This magazine is designed for every officer and member of the society, and hopes to give every subscriber value received in live, up-to-date articles on our work and activities, as well as fiction, poetry and travel articles. Are you a subscriber? If not, why not?

SALT LAKE CITY UTAH

The shoe store for the whole family— and every pair of shoes a "Money Back" quality.

SALT LAKE'S LARGEST AND FINEST SHOE STORE

Scrace's Bakery and Cafe
Fresh Bread, Cakes and Pastry Daily
Headquarters for Relief Society Visitors.
A Good Place to Eat.
E. L. SAUNDERS, Proprietor
Phone Wasatch 1230
24 South Main Street

THE purpose of the UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK at all times is to render SALT LAKE CITY helpful service and UTAH make the handling of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant

UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK
Your Account is Cordially Invited
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Pres.

When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct Style, Excellence and Satisfaction

What is Home
The Thomas Studio
Without
Phone Was. 3491
44 Main St.

THE SATURDAY NEWS

McCONAHAY'S Stock of Cameos said to be one of the largest shown in the country. We welcome the chance McCONAHAY to show them to you.

THE JEWELER
64 Main Street
$1.00 to $3.00
Salt Lake City

W. N. Williams, Supt.
R. N. Wilson, Asst. Supt.
Clarissa S. Williams, Sec'y and Treas.

GUARANTEED FURNITURE AT LOWEST PRICES

Our magnificent stock comprises goods from America's most representative lines and our prices are always reasonable

Carpets, Rugs, Draperies, Linoleum, Ranges, Heaters, Go-Carts, Etc.

Home Furnishings of all descriptions for CASH OR CREDIT

FURNITURE CO-OP
Next Door South of Z. C. M. I. CO.

BURIAL CLOTHES  
Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits  
Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207  
67 E. South Temple Street  
Salt Lake City, Utah  

THE HOME PIANO OF AMERICA  
Attractive in case design — beautiful in finish — pure and sweet, rich and full in tone — the Kohler & Campbell piano at once appeals to the most exacting musician. 1000 homes a month open their doors to receive one of these world-wide favorites. Let YOUR home open its doors for one this month.  

"OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH"  
Jensens Butters  
Honest butters honestly priced! To secure the largest amount of butter satisfaction obtainable, you must specify these butters. "Blanchard" is the standard size print. "Four in-One" is four quarter size prints. Your grocer sells both.  
Jensen Creamery Company  

Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. School Shoes for Boys  
They keep the feet warm and dry save unnecessary suffering and doctor's expense.  

"MOUNTAINEER" and "THE LEADER" Overalls  
Don't Rip, are Honestly Made.  

R. S. SEAL Supplies for Temple POST CARDS  
Mothers who write to missionary sons, girls who write to sweethearts, school girls who keep mothers posted, send for our beautiful Relief Society Card; 5 cents each.  
Address — MRS. EMMA A. EMPEY,  
Relief Society Headquarters,  
Room 29, Bishop's Bldg.  
180 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah.  

HOME VISITORS' EXCURSIONS EAST  
DECEMBER 19 and 22, 1914  
Following low round trip fares will prevail from Salt Lake City:  
Denver or Colorado Springs $22.50  
Omaha or Kansas City 40.00  
Memphis 59.85  
Chicago 59.72  
St. Paul or Minneapolis 53.86  
Proportionately low rates from other points on the Oregon Short Line to the foregoing and many other points. See agents for particulars.  
CITY TICKET OFFICE HOTEL UTAH  
SALT LAKE CITY  

Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company  
The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this.  
Relief Society Headquarters or  
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO.  
HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH  

Relief Society Housekeepers. Do you want better homes?  
ATTENTION Brighter children? Then plan to attend the ROUND UP at the UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE January 18th to 30th, Logan Utah  
Great Agricultural and Economic Lights which will shine there:  
C. B. SMITH, U. S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C.  
DR. S. H. BAILEY, Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y.  
DR. D. A. BRODIE, U. S. Department of Agriculture  
MRS. NELLIE KEDZIE JONES (Kansas)— Care of Children.  
MRS. VERNETTA T. MORRIS (Chicago)— Art in the Home.  

Vol. II MARCH, 1915 No. 3  
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE  
ORGANIZATION NUMBER  
EXTRA ORGAN OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS  
ROOM 29. BISHOPS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH  
$1.00 a Year— Single Copy 10c  

WILLES-HORNE DRUG CO.  
NEWS BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY  
OUR DRUG STORE IS COMPLETE PRICES RIGHT  
We Solicit Your Patronage  
Prompt Attention to Mail Orders  
TRY OUR QUICK LUNCH— IT'S DELICIOUS  
FRESH FLOWERS DAILY  

The Xmas Store for Men and Boys  
Choose now while assortments are most complete. Best possible values, of course.  
UTAH'S GREATEST CLOTHING STORE  
GARDNER & ADAMS CO.  
IN THE KEARNS BUILDING  
We give and redeem Security Vouchers  

Marion Banks  
FINE MILLINERY  
Charlton's HOLIDAY SPECIAL  
On Our Smart Line of at reasonable Prices  
SUITS, GOWNS AND WAISTS  
Have you seen our new handker-  
GOODWIN CORSETS  
chiefs and neckwear?  
This ad. will redeem 10 per cent, on purchases at regular price.  
242 SOUTH MAIN STREET  

PLAN YOUR GARDEN NOW  
You will find our Seed and Nursery Guide Book the most valuable assistant in telling you just what is worth while to plant in this climate. This book contains 112 pages fully illustrated just brimful of the information needed by every planter of Seeds, Plants, Shrubs, Roses and Trees. By securing it you will get the benefit of the thousands of experiments carried on at our Centerville Trials Grounds, and this alone is worth Dollars. You are entitled to a free copy of this valuable book. Mention this paper and write for it today.  
PORTER-WALTON CO  
Seed and Nursery Specialists for U. S. A., SALT LAKE  

In January, nineteen hundred and fifteen,  
A book came forth: The Relief Society Magazine,  
Organ of great worth.  
From the heart of the Rockies  
It burst into view,  
Pure and sweet, as the mountain dew.  
Of foster mothers it has a score.  
And over the leaf I find three more.  
Lovely women, noble and good,  
Backed by the fathers, and the priesthood.

Blessed by a prophet, recorded and named  
A friend of the poor, the needy or maimed.  
It is mentally strong, and perfect in limb.  
And though I am only a poor old relation,  
I can send it at least, my dollar a year.  
For its future development I have no fear.  
I will watch it grow, like a small, planted seed,  
To give us brain food in our time of need.  
Like a carrier dove, to every sphere,  
With its message of love, afar and near,  
I can see it achieve a future so great  
That it's sought for in every nation and state,  
Welcomed by all; in castle or cot,  
It belongs to us all, and caste is forgot.  
Don't hurry its growth; give it chances to grow,  
Sturdy and strong, although it be slow.  
But there, you will need no advice of mine.  
For some of its mothers are doctors divine.  
You may object to my rhyming, and will, without doubt,  
So I give you leave to cut it all out.  
My thoughts are much better than my knowledge of rule.  
As I helped push a handcart when I should have been at school.  
But God knows all things, so I have no fear;  
I have filled up my niche, as a good pioneer.  
I ask God to bless our baby again.  
With its message of peace, and good will to men.  

MASONIC LODGE, NAUVOO,  
Where the Relief Society was Organized, March 17, 1842.  
This building was originally three stories high. The Masonic Lodge room or hall was in the third story. The original windows in the lower story were square, as if arranged for a store. The steps, now on the right side, were originally in the center, and a large double door faced them. The half circle window tops now on the lower story, were taken from the third story windows. Picture furnished by Mr. Rheimbold, Proprietor Oriental Hotel, Nauvoo, Ill.  

THE Relief Society Magazine  
Vol. II. MARCH, 1915. No. 3.  

Instructions of the Prophet Joseph Smith.  
Given to the Relief Society in Nauvoo.  

We here present some precious truths and suggestions given to the women in Nauvoo by our honored prophet. They touch upon every phase of our work and the mission of woman. Some things herein have appeared in the old volumes of the Woman's Exponent; some have never before been printed. We are sure you will enjoy every word, as it is all designed for the women of this Society.  

April 28, 1842.  
Lodge Room, Nauvoo.  

President Joseph Smith arose and called the attention of the meeting to I Cor. 12, "Now, concerning spiritual gifts," etc. He said that the passage which reads, "No man can say that Jesus is the Lord but by the Holy Ghost," should be translated, "No man can know," etc. He continued to read the chapter and give instructions respecting the different offices, and the necessity of every individual acting in the place allotted to him or to her; and filling the several offices to which they were appointed. He spoke of the disposition of men to consider the lower offices in the Church dishonorable, and to look with jealous eyes upon the standing of others — that it was the nonsense of the human heart for a person to be aspiring to other stations than appointed of God — that it was better for individuals to magnify their respective callings, and wait patiently till God shall say to them, "Come up higher." He said the reason of these remarks being made was, that some little thing was circulating in the Society that some persons were not doing right in laying hands on the sick, etc. He said if he had common sympathies he would rejoice that the sick could be healed; that the time had not been before when these things could be in their proper order — that the Church is not now organized in its proper order — and cannot be until the temple is completed. President Smith continued the subject by adverting to the commission given to the ancient apostles, "Go ye into all the world," etc. No matter who believes these signs, such as healing the sick, casting out devils, etc., the signs should follow all that believe, whether male or female. He asked the society if they could not see by this sweeping stroke that wherein they are called, it is the privilege of those set apart to administer in the authority which is conferred on them; and if the sisters should have faith to heal the sick, let all hold their tongues, and let everything roll on.

He said if God has appointed him, and chosen him as an instrument to lead the Church, why not let him lead it through? Why stand in the way when he is appointed to do a thing? Who knows the mind of God? Does He not reveal things differently from what we expect? He remarked that he was continually rising; although he had everything bearing him down, standing in his way and opposing; after all, he always came out right in the end. Respecting the females laying on hands, he further remarked there could be no evil in it. If God gave his sanction by healing, there could be no more sin in any female laying hands on the sick than in wetting the face with water — that it is no sin for anybody to do it who has faith — or if the sick have faith to be healed by the administration. He reproved those who were disposed to find fault with the management of concerns — saying that if he had undertaken to lead the Church he would lead it right — that he intended to organize the Church in its proper order, etc. President Smith continued by speaking of the difficulties he had to surmount ever since the commencement of the work in consequence of aspiring, "great big elders," as he called them, who had caused him much trouble, whom he had taught in the private Council, and they would go forth into the world and proclaim the things he had taught them, as their own revelations — the same aspiring dispositions will be in this society, and must be guarded against — that every person should stand and act in the place appointed, and thus sanctify the society and get it pure. He said he had been trampled under foot by aspiring elders, for all were infected by that spirit, for instance had been aspiring — they could not be exalted, but must run away, as though the care and authority of the Church were vested in them — he said he had a subtle devil to deal with, and could only curb him by being humble. He said as he had this opportunity, he was going to instruct the Society and point out the way for them to conduct it, that they might act according to the will of God — that he did not know that he should have many opportunities of teaching them, — that they were going to be left to themselves — that they would not long have him to instruct them — that the Church would not have his instructions long, and the world would not be troubled with him a great while, and would not have his teachings — he spoke of delivering the keys of this Society and of the Church — that according to his prayers, God had appointed him elsewhere. He exhorted the sisters always to concentrate their faith and prayers for, and place confidence in, those whom God had chosen to honor, whom God has placed at the head to lead — that we should arm them with our prayers — that the keys of the kingdom are about to be given to the leaders — that they may be able to detect everything false. You must put down iniquity and by your own example provoke the elders to good works; if you do right there is no danger of going too fast. He said he did not care how fast we run in the path of virtue. Resist evil and there is no danger. God, men, angels, and devils can't condemn those who resist everything that is evil — as well might the devil seek to dethrone Jehovah as the soul that resists everything that is evil. The Charitable Society, this is according to your natures — it is natural for females to have feelings of charity — you are now placed in a situation where you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious. If you live up to your privilege, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates — females, if they are pure and innocent, can come into the presence of God, for what is more pleasing to God than innocence? You must be innocent or you cannot come up before God; let us be pure ourselves. The devil has great power — he will so transform things as to make one gape at those who are doing the will of the Lord.

You need not be tearing men down for their good deeds, but let the weight of innocence be felt which is more mighty than a millstone hung around the neck. Not war, not jangle, not contradiction, but meekness, love, purity, these are the things that should magnify us. Evil must be brought to light — iniquity must be purged out — then the veil will be rent, and the blessings of heaven will flow down — they will roll down like the Mississippi river. After this instruction you will be responsible for your own sins. It is an honor to save yourselves — all are responsible to save themselves. President Smith, after reading from the above-mentioned chapter, continued to give instruction respecting the order of God as established in the Church, saying that everyone should aspire to magnify his own office, etc. He then commenced reading the 15th chapter, "Though I 94 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. speak with the tongues of men," etc., and said, Don't be limited in your views with regard to your neighbor's virtues, but be limited towards your own virtues, and not think yourselves more righteous than others. You must enlarge your soul toward others, if you would do like Jesus, and carry your fellow creatures to Abraham's bosom. He said he had been long-suffering, and we must all be patient. President Smith then read, "Though I have the gift of prophecy," etc. He said that though one should become mighty, do great things, overturn mountains, etc., and should then turn to eat and drink with the drunken, all former deeds would not save him, but he would go to destruction. As you increase in innocence and virtue, as you increase in goodness, let your hearts expand — let them be enlarged towards others — you must be long-suffering and bear with the faults and errors of mankind. How precious are the souls of men! The female part of the community are apt to be contracted in their views. You must not be contracted, but you must be liberal in your feelings. Let this society teach wives how to act towards husbands, to treat them with mildness and affection. When a man is borne down with trouble, when he is perplexed, if he can meet a smile instead of an argument — if he can meet with mildness, it will calm THE MANSION HOUSE, NAUVOO. HOME OF THE PROPHET. INSTRUCTIONS OF THE PROPHET. 95 down his soul and soothe his feelings. When the mind is going to despair it needs a solace. This Society is to get instructions through the order which God has established, through the medium of those appointed to lead, and now I turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time — this is the beginning of better days to this Society. When you go home never give a cross word, but let kindness, charity and love crown your work henceforward. Don't envy sinners. Have mercy on them — let your labors be confined, mostly, to those around you in your own circles; as far as knowledge is concerned, it may extend to all the world. But your administrations should be confined to the immediate circles of your acquaintance, and more especially to the members of the Society. Those appointed to lead the society are authorized to call others to different offices as the circumstances shall require. If any have a matter to reveal, let it be in your own tongue. Do not indulge too much in the gift of tongues, or the devil will take advantage of the innocent. You may speak in tongues for your comfort, but I lay this down for a rule, that if anything is taught by the gift of tongues, it is not to be received for doctrine. The Spirit of the Lord was poured out in a very powerful manner, never to be forgotten by those present on that interesting occasion. Eliza R. Snow, Secretary. May 26, 1843. President Smith, the Prophet, then arose, read Ezekiel 14. He said the Lord had declared by that Prophet that the people should each one stand for himself and depend on no man or men in that state of corruption of the Jewish church — that righteous persons could only deliver their own souls. Applied it to the present condition of the Church of Latter-day Saints. If the people depart from the Lord, they must fall; they were depending on man, hence were darkened in their minds from neglect of themselves — they were envious towards the innocent, while they afflict the virtuous with their shafts of envy. There is another error which opens the door for the adversary to enter.

A female possesses refined feelings and sensitiveness; they are also subject to an overmuch zeal, which must ever prove dangerous, and cause them to be rigid in a religious capacity. They should be armed with mercy. Where there is a mountain top, there is also a valley. We should act in all things as a proper medium to every immortal spirit. Notwithstanding the unworthy are among us, the virtuous should not from self-importance grieve and oppress needlessly those unfortunate ones; even these should be encouraged to hereafter live to be honored by this Society, who are the best portions of the community. Said he had two things to commend to the Society; first to put a double watch over the tongue. No organized body can exist without this. All organized bodies have their peculiar weaknesses and difficulties— the object is to make those not so good, equal with the good, and hold the keys of power which will influence to goodness and virtue. Second, you should chasten and reprove and then keep it all in silence; not even to mention the matter again; if you will do this you will be established in power, holiness and virtue, and the wrath of God will be turned away. He had one request to make of the president and the Society: that you search yourselves — the tongue is an unruly member, hold your tongues about things of no moment — a little tale will set the world on fire. If we were brought to desolation the disobedient would find no help. There are some who are obedient, yet men cannot steady the ark — my arm can not do it— God must steady it.

FATHER SMITH'S HOME, NAUVOO. Place where the Mummies were kept. June 9, 1842. President Joseph Smith opened the meeting by prayer; and proceeded to address the congregation on the doings of the Society. He said it is no matter how fast the Society increases if all are virtuous. We must be as particular with regard to the character of members as when the Society first started. Sometimes persons wished to put themselves into a society of this kind, but when they do not intend to pursue the ways of purity and righteousness, that the Society cannot be a shelter to them in their wickedness. President Smith said that henceforth no person should be admitted, but by presenting regular petitions signed by two or three members in good standing in the Society — whoever comes in must be of good report. He said he was going to preach mercy. Supposing that Jesus Christ and angels should object to us on frivolous things, what would become of us? We must be merciful and overlook small things. By union of feeling we obtain power with God. Christ said he came to call sinners to repentance and save them. Christ was condemned by the righteous Jews because he took sinners into his society to reform them; he took them upon the principle that they repented of their sins. It is the object of this Society to reform, those persons, not to take those that are corrupt; but if they repent, we are bound to take them, and by kindness sanctify them and cleanse them from all unrighteousness your influence in watching over them — nothing will have such influence over people as the fear of being disfellowshiped by so goodly a Society as this. Nothing is so much calculated to lead people to forsake sin as to take them by the hand and watch over them in tenderness. When persons manifest the least tenderness and love towards me, O what power it has over my mind, while the opposite course has a tendency to harrow up all the harsh feelings and to depress my mind. It is one evidence that men are unacquainted with the principle of godliness to behold their contraction of feeling and lack of charity. The power and glory of godliness is spread out in a broad principle, as if to throw out the mantle of charity. God does not look on sin with allowance, but when men have sinned, there must be an allowance for them. All the religious idea is boasting of righteousness — it is the doctrine of the devil to retard the human mind and retard our progress by filling us with self-righteousness. The nearer we get to our heavenly Father, the more we are disposed to serve him. The more prone we are to look with compassion on perishing souls — to take them upon our shoulders and cast their sins behind our backs, I am going to talk to all the society.

If you would have God have mercy on you, have mercy on one another. President Smith then referred them to the conduct of the Savior when he was taken and crucified, etc. He then made a promise in the name of the Lord saying that the soul that has righteousness enough to ask God in a secret place for life, every day of his or her life, shall live to threescore years and ten. We must walk uprightly all day long. How glorious are the principles of righteousness. We are full of selfishness — the devil flatters us that we are very righteous, while we are feeding on the faults of others. We can only live by worshiping our God — all must do it for themselves, none can do it for another. How mildly the Savior dealt with Peter, saying that "when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren." At another time he said to him, "lovest thou me?" "feed my sheep." If the sisters love the 

98 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. 

Lord, let them feed the sheep and not destroy them. How oft have wise men and women sought to dictate to Brother Joseph, by saying, "Oh, if I were in Brother Joseph's shoes." They would find that men could not be compelled in the kingdom of God, but must be dealt with with long-suffering, and at last we shall save them. "The way to keep all the Saints together and keep the work rolling is to wait with all long-suffering till God shall bring such characters to justice; there should be no licenses for sin, but mercy should go hand in hand with reproof. Sisters of this Society, shall there be strife among you? I will not have it— you must repent and get the love of God. Away with self-righteousness. The best measure or principle to bring the poor to repentance is to administer to their wants — the Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save the soul." President Smith then said that he would give a lot of land to the Society by deeding it to the treasurer, that the Society may build houses for the poor. He also said that he would give a house — frame not finished, said that Brother Gaboon will move it on to the aforesaid lot, and the Society can pay him by giving orders on the store — that it was a good plan to set those to work who were owing widows and thus let them make an effort to pay the debt, etc. President Joseph Smith opened the meeting by addressing the Society. He commenced by expressing his happiness and thankfulness for the privilege of being present on this occasion. He said great exertions had been made on the part of our enemies, but they had not accomplished their purpose. God had enabled him to keep out of their hands — he had warred a good deal inasmuch as he had whipped out all of Bennett's host — his feelings at the present were relieved inasmuch as the Lord Almighty had preserved him today. He said it reminded him of the Savior, when he said to the Pharisees, Go ye and tell that fox, "Behold I cast out devils, and I do cures today and tomorrow, and the third day I shall be perfected," etc. He said that he expected that the heavenly Father had decreed that the Missourians shall not get him. President Smith continued by saying, "I shall triumph over mine enemies — I have begun to triumph over them at home, and I shall do it abroad — all those who shall rise up against me shall feel the weight of their iniquity upon their own heads — those who speak evil are abominable characters and full of iniquity — all the fuss and all the stir against me is like the jack o' lantern; it cannot be found. Although I do wrong, I do not do the wrong I am charged with doing. The wrongs that I, like other men, do are through the frailty of human nature. No man lives without fault. Do you think that even Jesus, if he were here, would be without 

INSTRUCTIONS OF THE PROPHET. 99 

fault in your eyes? They said all manner of evil against him — they all watched for iniquity. How easy it was for Jesus to call out all the iniquity of the hearts of those whom he was among? The servants of the Lord are required to guard against those things that are calculated to do the most evil — the little foxes spoil the vines — little evils do the most iniquity to the Church.

If you have evil feelings and speak of them to one another, it has a tendency to do mischief. When I do the best I can — when I am accomplishing the greatest good, then the most evils are gotten up against me. I have come here to bless you. The Society has done well. Their principles are to practice holiness. God loves you, and your prayers in my behalf shall avail much. Let them not cease to ascend to God in my behalf. The enemy will never get away — I expect he will array everything against me — I expect a tremendous warfare. He that will war the Christian warfare will have the angels of devils, and all the infernal powers of darkness, continually arrayed against him. When wicked and corrupt men oppose, it is a criterion to judge if a man is warring the Christian warfare. When all men speak evil of you, blessed are you, etc. Shall a man be considered bad when a wicked man speaks evil of him? No. If a man stand and oppose a world of sin, he may expect all things arrayed against him. But it will be but a little season, and all these afflictions will be turned away from us, inasmuch as we are faithful and are not overcome by these evils, by seeing the blessings of the endowment rolling on, and the kingdom increasing and spreading from sea to sea; we will rejoice that we were not overcome by these foolish things. President Smith then remarked that a few things had been revealed to him in his absence respecting the baptisms for the dead, which he should communicate next Sabbath, if nothing should occur to prevent. Later. — President Smith said he had one remark to make respecting the baptism for the dead— to suffice for the time being, until he has opportunity to discuss the subject to greater length — that is, all persons baptised for the dead must have a recorder present, that he may be an eye witness to testify of it. It will be necessary in the grand council, that these things be testified of; let it be attended to from this time, for if there is any lack it may be at the expense of our friends — they may not come forth, etc. 1276 names were enrolled as members. The recorded receipts were $415.24. Report of the Nauvoo Relief Society. We give here a report of the work done during the first year of the Relief Society. This report appeared in No. 18, Vol. IV, of the Times and Seasons, and is both valuable and interesting: FEMALE RELIEF SOCIETY. The first annual report of the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo; being a correct statement of the receipts and disbursements of the society, from its organization, March 17, 1842, to March 17, 1843, to wit: Received in donations of money, clothing, provisions, etc. .$507.00 Expended in appropriations for the relief of the poor.... 298.48 Leaving at the time aforesaid a balance as follows; to-wit: Cash $ 29.00 Share in the Nauvoo House 50.00 Note of hand by J. Emmett 12.00 Orders 19.00 Cow, the use of which is appropriated to Widow H 14.00 Shingles 7.50 Various articles of clothing, provisions, etc. 77.02 $208.52 An apology is due to the members of the Society for our delay in presenting this report. We would only say, it was unavoidable in consequence of circumstances beyond the control of the treasurer, Mrs. E. A. Holmes, which rendered it impossible for her to make satisfactory returns at an earlier period. We hope the ladies of the Society will feel encouraged to renew their exertions knowing that the blessings of the poor are resting upon them. We feel assured from what has passed under our personal observation, that many during the inclemency of the winter were not only relieved, but preserved from famishing, through their instrumentality. More has been accomplished than our most sanguine anticipations predicted, and through the assistance and blessing of God, what may we not hope for the future? By order of the President. Eliza R. Snow, Secretary. Nauvoo, June 30, 1843. The Genesis of the Relief Society By Maud Baggarley. "Stretch forth thy hands to the poor," Said Joseph, the prophet and seer, "As ye walk in the pathway of virtue To comfort and strengthen and cheer;" For this is thy mission, O Woman, Whom God hath set in high place — To serve in compassionate mercy; To uplift, with goodness, the race! To serve, though a queen and a priestess.

Facing the light of the sun,  
Heeding not scorn nor contumely,  
Awaiting the whisper: "Well done."  
O thou who rockest the cradle;  
Who teachest great truths at the knee;  
Whose prayers are heard above cannon,  
God looks with favor on thee!  
At the gateway of Life He hath set thee,  
Whose tears of compassion are shed  
For the weak, and the lost, and the erring;  
Whose tenderness hallows the dead.  
When the Prophet didst call and ordain thee,  
Mothers of Zion so true.  
Inspired, he looked down the ages  
To a broad and a glorious view  
Of woman, triumphant in glory.  
Sweet Angels of mercy, are you.  

Early Development of the Textile Art.  
Rose H. Widtsoe.  

The pages of history record, among many other things, to the honor of woman, that she played an important part in the discovery and the development of the art of making fabrics. The old saying that "necessity is the mother of invention" is truly applicable in her life. She had to feed, and clothe, and shelter her children; so, among primitive races, she was the inventor, the pioneer in many of the industries. Man has replaced her in modern manufacture, but to her is due the credit of discovering the first principles. She learned from nature what materials to use. She also got her ideas of form and design from the same great teacher. The debt we owe to her cannot be overestimated. Her hundreds of years of patient toil and invention have laid the basic principles for modern textile progress. To appreciate her share in primitive culture, we must remember the many hardships she endured, hardships of which the women of today cannot conceive.  

In attempting to trace the development of the great textile art, it is impossible to reach the beginning. As far back as the printed page in history will carry us, there are evidences of a well-developed industry. A study of prehistoric times, through dusty relics and specimens of textiles that have been preserved in various ways, gives evidence that this industry could yet be traced many ages in the distant past. We must be content with the reasoning set forth, that a man felt the need of something more than the food and shelter provided by nature, he doubtless began to devise implements, clothing and habitations of some sort. The skins of animals and barks of trees first supplied his needs, but gradually he learned to make use of the reeds and grasses about him, and then the wool, flax and other fibers that nature provided. He wove these twigs and fibers into baskets, mats and cloth.  

It was customary among primitive people to bury with their dead weapons, tools and clothing, which they considered the person might need in his journey into the unknown world. Thousands of years later the graves of these prehistoric men have been opened, and the things buried with them have come to light, giving much valuable information concerning the early art of making fabrics. Among these tools are spindles, shuttles, crude looms, combs and other implements used in spinning and weaving. In some localities, due to certain peculiar conditions of climate or soil, not only stone and wooden implements have been preserved, but also pottery, basketry, and even textile fabrics have been found. In the tombs of ancient Egypt, where bodies were wrapped in cloth and then embalmed, textile fabrics four thousand years old have been discovered. In the graves of ancient Peru, where the dry, saline sands are excellent preservatives, graves have recently been opened, and among the relics were found many fabrics of cotton, silk, and wool, some of them embroidered with gold and silver thread, and many of them woven into intricate patterns. Specimens of these fabrics are to be seen in the Museum of Natural History, New York. The tools used by the Peruvians were very simple, as were also their methods of working.  

We do not have to depend upon history or upon relics for our knowledge of the beginnings of the textile industry. We have among us primitive peoples, who are at the same stage of development as were our ancestors thousands of years ago when handling reeds or rushes and spinning various threads from plant and animal fibers. The primitive peoples of today have preserved the methods of their ancestors and have been influenced very little by the progress of civilization. The Eskimo, the American Indian, and the South Sea Islander, for example, and other natural forms, furnish them with the materials for their simple products. They, when thus kept close to nature, develop artistic instincts and often show remarkable skill in their work.

They know how to take advantage of the natural qualities of their materials, and work them into shapes and designs that are beautiful for their simplicity and suitability to purpose. The Peruvian Indians skillfully wove their cotton and wool into beautiful fabrics, and made them into garments that were both artistic and serviceable. They learned to use dyes made from native plants, and produced beautiful and harmonious colors. They knew how to work different colored threads carefully together, and make patterns that were skillfully woven to produce intricate geometric figures. They also learned to embroider, using threads of gold and silver, and to decorate their fabrics with beads and feathers. The Navajo Indians became famous for their beautiful blankets, which were made from the wool of their sheep, and were woven in striking patterns and colors. Whether we have passed through just the stage of development in which we find the Eskimo, the American Indian, and the 104 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. South Sea Islander, may be a matter of conjecture, but most probably our ancestors, thousands of years ago, carried on their arts and industries in a somewhat similar manner, and the study of these primitive peoples serves to give us the stages in the development of the higher forms of industry. There are few people to be found today who are entirely unaffected by modern civilization, and the commercial spirit which follows in its train. An example of this is found in the Navajo Indian. His blankets have been one of our best examples of a simple and beautiful art; the art of a people untutored in the modern theories of color and design, the product of the individual influenced only by tradition. Unfortunately the modern curiosity hunter has brought the Navajo too much before the public eye. His art has become commercialized, and the demand for his wares has caused him to produce faster than he can produce well. He has borrowed from the white man colors which he does not know how to use. He works now for the public rather than for himself. The consequence is that it is difficult to find the true Navajo blanket. So it is with other people in other parts of the world; and as civilization spreads, it will not be long before the primitive man, uninfluenced by modern times and conditions, will be a creature of the past, and his art will be a lost art. Coming close to home, we have a textile industry that is interesting, because of its simplicity and its strength; the industry of our great grandmothers. In early days, the loom was a common possession of every home, and every housewife was her own producer. The fabrics woven were excellent woolens and linens, representing the honest efforts of a frugal, home-loving people. These fabrics are often beautiful — but beautiful because of their firm and interesting texture, the simplicity of design and color-scheme, and above all, the excellency of the materials. No adulterations were found in these home-made, hand-made fabrics. Examples of such fabrics are found in the homespun cloths, blankets, the blue and white bed-covers, and the linen sheets that remain to this day to tell their own story. The rush of modern civilization is fast forcing this home industry out of existence. The wonderful machine-made fabrics of today are, of course, the most important. Hand-made fabrics cannot compete with machine-made goods, nor do we desire this. But there is an individuality of taste in hand-made goods which is lacking in machine goods. For this reason, we should encourage a certain amount of handwork, and not allow this splendid industry to die out entirely. Many who appreciate the value of true homespun are making a great effort to preserve what is left. Much credit is due to the Arts and Crafts Movement which is trying to popularize these homespun articles in the modern home. Dressmaking at Home. By The Two Sarahs. There are two splendid reasons why dressmaking should be an established fact in every home. We get from good authority the startling fact that 85% of the income of the nation is spent by women. What can mother and daughter do to lessen the high cost of living? Understand the art of dressmaking and apply it in the home. We learn to do by doing, and develop a confidence in our own powers of making and, even creating the clothes we wear; and if we persist in doing dressmaking for the family, we not only save large—and we may say in many cases unnecessary—expense bills, but we are growing and developing ourselves. I was led to admire very much, one day recently, a pretty silk waist made and worn by one of my lady friends.

She was proud of it, but had one bitter regret, that she had not made the same effort twenty-five years ago, how different would have been the results. Having worked during that time in the office or store, she reckoned she had spent at least $150 in waist-making. Fancy the financial satisfaction, had she been wearing home-made waists all that time. The first essential is reliable patterns. If one cannot rely on the ones she may buy, let her get a good dressmaker to take her measure and draft one. Materials suitable for the season is a big consideration. A good quality of cloth keeps its shape, holds its color, and will often turn and may be remodeled to good advantage. Before making over old material, be sure the garment is worth while. If it is to be ripped apart, remove all stains first, for it is care, afterwards, the seams will stretch. Rip seams with great care using a sharp pen knife. If the goods to be renovated is of silk texture, brush with a whisk. If woolen, shake well and brush with a piece of old flannel or broom. Sponge black silk on both sides with spirits of wine, hang out doors until nearly dry, cover with white tissue paper, and iron lightly with a slightly-warm iron. Buttons are again being used. "Fortunate the woman who has saved her buttons and pieces of expensive trimming." Buttons of contrasting color are promised for the new tailored suits. In waist-making, be particular regarding the fit of your collar; it means comfort and good beauty, and good style; finish the collar with flat ruching or silk cord—white is always softening to the face. We note, with pleasure, the return of the pretty, dressy jabot. Be careful in the setting of your sleeves. Long ones are again in vogue, and are made to fit snugly from the elbow to the wrist. Stout women should always have the lower sleeve, from elbow to wrist, fit closely. It has a good effect for such figures. One may finish the wrist with a neat cuff, or ruffles of soft lace. The new waists have a simulated closing seam down the back; in some, the waist line is creeping up. Very short indeed are most of the new skirts; all are wide—very wide—considering the extreme narrow ones of a few months ago. All women hail the return of the wider, more modest skirt. The conservative will choose a length from two to four inches from the ground. The skirt never looks well unless perfectly true around the bottom. A great help for the home dressmaker is an inexpensive device for this purpose, which may be purchased at almost any store. A braid is a splendid protection for the skirt; use belting for the waist-band, and be very precise, in the finishing of the placket. The writer once was urgently requested by a buyer of a large department store to suggest to our sex the necessity of inventing something that would keep this unseemly gap in the back of the skirt closed. The best thing known of is to sew on, about one inch apart, the small snaps of best quality with strong cotton thread, or small hooks and eyes—plenty of them. Sew them on close together. All bias seams should be neatly bound with narrow tape or strips of lining on the bias, to keep in shape. If one can afford an artificial form to fit and drape the gowns on, it will be found very helpful. Many use the pillow to fit the waist or basque on. We all desire our clothing to have a pleasing, artistic effect. So, in carrying out the design of a dress, it is as necessary to stay with the pattern, to get the best results, as it is for an architect to build according to forms and plans. By practicing economy in the home, we may assist very materially in feeding the hungry, clothing the desolate, and comforting the distressed. The Relief Society women are heartily in favor of the movement, among some of our leading American women, for simpler, more becoming, and truly modest designs in women's clothes. It was said by Shakespeare that "apparel oft proclaims the man." And dress does exert an influence, a great influence upon the character.

Kitchen Kinks.

GOOD FLOUR. Few housekeepers select flour by examination. Usually they take some brand tried and recommended by a friend, or by the grocer who furnishes them with their supplies. There is really no rule to be given by which an inexperienced cook can determine with accuracy the good grades of flour. A few hints, however, will enable any one to know what not to buy.

Never buy flour that has a bluish tint and will not adhere to the hand when pressed in the palm. Poor flour can be blown about easily; sometimes a poor grade has a grey, dingy look, as if mixed with cement. Good flour adheres to the hand, and when pressed, shows the prints of the fingers and lines in the palms of the hand; its color is a soft, creamy white. Flour should be purchased annually, where possible in quantities corresponding with the size or number in the family. Care should be taken in storing flour, as dampness causes it to lump and mould, and it will soon become unfit for use. It should be kept dry and cool, and out of the reach of mice, rats and the meal moth— the meal moth is more to be dreaded than either mice or rats.

GLUTEN. The proportion of gluten in wheat, and consequently in flour, varies greatly. Flour in which gluten is abundant will absorb much more liquid than that which contains a greater proportion of starch, and consequently such flour is richer, that is, will make more bread to a given quantity. Gluten forms flesh, while starch is a heat-producer in the nutritive process of the body. There is a great difference of opinion as to the comparative merits of bread made from fine flour, and graham or whole-wheat flour. The latter is certainly best for those who lead sedentary lives, as the coarse particles stimulate the digestive organs, and indeed the whole alimentary tract, causing the fluids to flow more freely; while for those who follow active, out-of-door pursuits, the fine flour bread is probably best, being more nutritive and economical, because quickly and easily assimilated. It is well for every family to have on hand a constant supply of wheat flour, and rye flour, and corn meal, in order that a change may be made. Most people find the rye and corn meal bread very palatable and health-promoting.

108 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

BREAD-MAKING. The old saying that "bread is the staff of life" has very sound reason in it. Flour made from wheat, rye, oats and Indian corn are all rich in the waste repairing elements. Starch and albumen really head the list of articles of food for mankind. Good bread makes the homeliest and coarsest meal acceptable and appetizing to those who love bread, while the most delicious meal is intolerable without it. Light, crisp rolls, muffins or toast for breakfast, sweet light, spongy bread for dinner, and airy flaky biscuit for supper — these cover a multitude of culinary sins. There is no one thing on which the health and comfort of the family so much depends as on good, wholesome home-made bread. Opinions may differ as to what constitutes good bread, as much as tastes differ on any other culinary duty, etc., but all will agree that bread to be good must be light, sweet; free from acid, or any yeasty taste, and should not be a soggy or doughy mass. To obtain the best results, use the best grade of flour, as in families when there is no waste the best is the cheapest. Bread-making seems a simple process, but after all, it requires careful, delicate manipulating and watching from start to finish. The pinch or guessing system must be done away with, and a careful method of weights and measures used, instead. Do not put dough in cold or drafty places if you expect good results, and after all, that is what the thorough practical housewife is aiming for — good results. There are many things in bread-making which require careful observation. We may have access to and use the best receipts (these are invaluable aids), but experience and care is required before any woman can acquire the much coveted name "a good bread-maker." Four things are indispensable, — good flour, good yeast, watchful care, and sifted flour. After the flour, comes the yeast or "raising" of which there are several kinds, the dry yeast, the compressed yeast, or the potato yeast. I presume the home-made potato yeast is the one most generally liked, and has the least chance of leaving taste in the bread if an over-abundance should be used. If you use milk to mix the bread with it should be scalded and partly cooled, as when the liquid is too hot, the bread is coarse. In hot weather, do not mix the bread too early in the evening, as it is likely to run over or sour, before time for baking. By mixing early in the morning, placing in a nice warm place, well covered, and out of the draft, you will, in from one to three hours have your bread ready to knead for the first time.

Bread made with milk is, of course, more nutritious, but will not keep as long as bread made from water. For experiment, let us try bread made from milk and bread made from water recipes, and see which we most relish:

Bread recipe using either milk or water:
4 quarts of flour, or 3 sifters.
3 tablespoons butter fat.
3 tablespoons sugar.
3 pints scalded milk (cooled).
1 compressed yeast cake, soaked in two tablespoons of lukewarm water.
1/2 teaspoon of salt.
Or, if preferable, use one part water and one part milk.

Bread must be kneaded until it is free from lumps and does not adhere to pan or hands. Let rise until it doubles its bulk. Then knead, shape into loaves, let rise until it doubles its bulk again, which, under favorable conditions, requires one to one and one-fourth hours. The important point now is to see that the oven is in proper condition, and while there is no definite rule to be given for each individual stove or range, there is one given rule which applies to, and must be observed, which is to have a moderate steady heat, and the placing of a piece of white writing paper in the oven ten minutes before time for baking will, if warm enough, turn a delicate brown; then place in the bread, watch carefully for the first ten minutes, let the crust begin to brown, and from now on, it should steadily increase in color until a beautiful brown is obtained. An application of steady, quiet heat will reward you with four or five loaves of sweet, well-cooked, digestible bread.

In our next issue, we will give a recipe for rolls, yeast powder biscuits, muffins, nut bread, corn bread, and the good old-fashioned salt rising bread like "mother used to make."

A LABOR-SAVING COAL BUCKET.

The bucket is constructed by cutting a hole the full width in the upper part of one side on a square 1-gallon oil can, making the cut extend four inches down and allowing one-fourth inch of the material to turn in all around to prevent injuring the hands. Such a bucket holds more than the usual amount of fuel that is put on a fire at one time, and it will not spill over the edges while pouring the coal into the stove. It does away with carrying and lifting a heavy bucket of fuel — a job that most women dread — when only a few shovelfuls are needed. — Contributed by L. E. Turner, New York City.

Good Health. By Maud Baggarley.

Good health is the main-spring of life. It makes the wheels of the world go 'round. Deformed and afflicted persons, and those in bad health, have performed miracles of valor, and have achieved their great purposes by sheer will-power alone, thus demonstrating the superiority of mind over matter. But these are exceptions to the general rule. Poor health ordinarily makes of a man a grouch, a growl, or a pessimist; it fetters the individual and keeps his nose to the grindstone and his eyes on the ground, instead of on the stars.

The purpose of earthly existence is service; service to God and to the race. He serves best who is truest to himself. And he who is truest to himself looks well to the laws that promote health, that his body may be strong, his brain clear and active. In order to attain health, one must first have a definite idea as to what constitutes health. It has been called: "the perfect circulation of pure blood in a sound organism." In other words, the blood must pass rapidly, without hindrance to every part of a body free from disease.

In order to possess a sound body, one must not only know the laws of health, but must obey them. The first requisite of health is pure blood. To obtain pure blood, it is necessary to breathe clean, uncontaminated air; eat simple, easily-digested food, eliminate the waste products from the body; exercise; rest; sleep; and bathe often. Next to an adequate supply of fresh air is the elimination of waste. Many channels for this purpose have been provided. Each of them is of almost equal importance. These are the lungs, the skin, the bowels, and the kidneys. The lungs must be unhampered by tight clothing, and fully developed by deep breathing. The pores of the skin (often called the third lung) must be kept open by frequent bathing, rubbing, exercise, and change of clothing. The bowels must perform their function daily. As a fish lives in water, so man lives in air, and he should see to it that his element is habitable, which it often is not.

Many who cannot and will not tolerate visible dirt, take quite kindly to it when unseen, on the principle of "out of sight, out of mind." Then guard your health, for, "the best things are nearest, breath in your nostrils, flowers at your feet, the path of God just before you." Promote your health that you may walk upright as a god in the sun.

Circular of Instructions To Officers and Members of the Relief Society.

These instructions and suggestions have been prepared by the General Board in response to a very extended call for such help. New stakes and wards are constantly organizing and old ones are reorganizing; missions are calling for suggestions and instructions in our work; and while we would not wish to lay down fast rules about matters of procedure which may change with years and other conditions, we can still formulate some definite plans and give some detailed suggestions that may prove of great value to officers and members, alike. Modes of procedure, plans of operation vary and change from time to time; but principle, law and truth, these go on forever. We have endeavored to observe this distinction clearly in the preparation of this little hand book. The spiritual part of all our work must forever be the dominating feature thereof. We can add all the good and precious educational and intellectual principles thereto that we may desire; but uppermost always is the principle of true religion undefiled— to visit the widow and succor the distressed. This little circular is sent forth with an earnest hope that it will help all and hinder none. May the Lord add His blessing to this labor of love.

PLAN OF CIRCULAR.

1. Name.
2. History— Genesis.
3. Object and Aim.
4. Organization— Officers: President, Counselors, Secretary, Treasurer, Teachers, Choir Leader, Organist, Librarian.
5. Membership.
6. Meetings and Conferences— Order of business. Decisions of the Presidency form Constitution. Officers Meetings. Weekly Meetings should be the rule. Day— Tuesday. Missions may provide other studies.
7. Guide Work— Lines of study. All lessons are necessary.
8. Funds — Charity. Membership Dues. Stake and Ward Expense Fund. Special Funds— Wheat. Building. Genealogical and Temple Work. Missionary. Library, etc.

112 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

COMMITTEES AND MINOR ACTIVITIES.

9. Nurse Class — How conducted. Requirements for entrance. Duties and benefits.
10. Public Health — Summer Guide Lessons. Civic Improvement.
11. Temple Clothing — For Current Use. Burial Clothes, General, Local.
12. Relief Society Home.— Cafeteria — Object. Location. Employment Bureau.
13. Insurance— Object. Beneficiaries. Agents.
14. Special Missionary Work — Aim and Purpose. Prevention, not Reform.
15. Magazine — Woman's Exponent begun by Relief Society. The Relief Society Magazine, our organ. Price, Size, Object, Lessons, etc.
16. Annual Day — Object and mode of observance.

OFFICIAL NAME.

The Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The Society is national and even international in its scope and activities; when referred to in cities outside of Utah it is known abroad as the National Woman's Relief Society.

HISTORY.

On the 17th of March, 1842, the Prophet Joseph Smith invited some sisters to meet in the Masonic Hall, in the city of Nauvoo, Illinois. Eighteen met, and he taught them how to organize themselves into an association of philanthropy and mental and moral culture. There were present with the Prophet, Elders Willard Richards and John Taylor. The officers chosen were: President, Emma Hale Smith; Sarah M. Cleveland, First Counselor; Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Second Counselor; Eliza R. Snow, Secretary; Phebe Ann Wheeler, Assistant Secretary, and Elvira N. Cowles, Treasurer. These officers remained until the martyrdom, when the exodus to the West temporarily interfered with their organized work. A house and lot was given by the Prophet to the Society, donations were collected and disbursed regularly. The Prophet and his associate brethren often met with the sisters and taught them the principles of truth and eternal progress. During the short period of two years, the Society increased to 1,275, and the recorded receipts were $415.24. Considering the impoverished condition of the people, this was a liberal showing.

A few ward organizations were operative in Salt Lake City,

113 CIRCULAR OF INSTRUCTIONS

during the early years of our settlement in these valleys. But shortly after the return from The Move, in 1858-59, Sister Eliza R. Snow was commissioned by President Brigham Young to go into the wards and co-operate with the bishops in organizing branches of the Relief Society, adding that she was to take Sister Zina D. Young to assist her towards effecting a general reorganization throughout the Church. Twenty years after, the first Stake Relief Society organization was made by President Brigham Young himself on July 19, 1877, in Ogden, just one month before his death, Sister Jane S.

Richards being called to preside as President of the Weber stake Relief Society. Three years later, the many branches and stakes of the Relief Society were gathered under one general head by President John Taylor (who succeeded President Brigham Young in the Presidency of the Church) on the 19th of June, 1880, and that great leader and organizer, Eliza R. Snow, was appointed as the General President, with Zina D. H. Young and Elizabeth Ann Whitney as her counselors. Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball was secretary, and Mrs. M. Isabella Home was treasurer. Sister Snow officiated as the leading woman in the Endowment House during all the years that temporary House was in operation. Eliza R. Snow, assisted by Zina D. Young, Phebe Woodruff, Jane S. Richards, M. Isabella Home, Sarah M. Kimball, and Emmeline B. Wells, Elizabeth Howard and others, organized ward and stake divisions of the Society throughout the Church during her lifetime. Sister Snow also assisted President Young to organize the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association—first known as the Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association, and later, under President John Taylor, organized the Primary Association. A corps of teachers was a part and parcel of every Relief Society, and during Sister Snow's administration, many features of the work which have since accomplished great things were introduced and made permanent. Among these were the Senior Retrenchment Society under Mary Isabella Home, the suffrage movement, which was headed by Sarah M. Kimball, the grain saving movement, with Emmeline B. Wells at its head, neighborhood nursing, the silk movement, with Zina D. Young as leader. This included the planting of mulberry trees, growing of cocoons, and the manufacture of raw silk into cloth. Women's co-operative concerns were organized, Relief Society houses were built, the Woman's Exponent was started, and the study and writing of books was encouraged. Stake, ward and general conferences were instituted, ward roll and minute books were devised, local, stake, and general reports were prepared, while Sister Snow and her assistants traveled constantly, visiting old branches and organizing new ones in the wards and stakes. The Relief Society was in a splendid condition when the death of Eliza R. Snow occurred, Dec. 5, 1887. At the April conference, 1888, Zina D. H. Young was appointed General President of the Society. She continued with the work along the same lines which had been followed so thoroughly and effectively by her predecessor. During her administration, the nurse class work was instituted under Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, Dr. Romania B. Penrose, and Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, and this, too, was made a permanent feature of Relief Society activity. The sweet, affectionate spirit of Aunt Zina—as she was lovingly called—was a particular feature of her regime. Faith, love, charity, and obedience to the priesthood, were the fundamental features of her life, and this spirit permeated the Society while she lived. The general officers at that time were Zina D. H. Young, with Jane S. Richards, Bathsheba W. Smith, and Sarah M. Kimball as her counselors. Sarah M. Kimball had been secretary for some years, with Dr. Romania B. Penrose as assistant secretary and Emmeline B. Wells as corresponding secretary, and Mary Isabella Home, treasurer. During a portion of that time Aunt Zina occupied the dual position of President of the sisters in the Salt Lake Temple and General President of the Relief Society. Mrs. Zina D. H. Young died August 28, 1901, and Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith was appointed General President Nov. 10, 1901, and for nine years she continued in this office with gracious dignity, at the same time holding the office of President of the sisters in the Salt Lake Temple. She, too, carried forward the work in the spirit and genius with which she had been familiar since its inception, she being a charter member of the organization in Nauvoo. The counselors to Sister Smith were Annie Taylor Hyde and Ida S. Dusenberry, with Emmeline B. Wells, secretary, Clarissa S. Williams, treasurer. It was during the administration of Sister Smith that mothers' class work was introduced, largely through the instrumentality of Counselor Dusenberry, assisted by Counselor Annie T. Hyde. This new phase of Relief Society work appealed to the sisters, and although no unified system of study was arranged by the General Board, still the stakes prepared suitable and excellent outlines on subjects best adapted to their various conditions and localities. During this period, also, the Bishop's Building was erected, to which edifice the Relief Society contributed thousands of dollars, that they might have permanent quarters in that building, and here, therefore, their offices were opened in December, 1909. President Bathsheba W. Smith died Sept. 20, 1910. Mrs. Emmeline B.

Wells was appointed General President of the Society, October 1, 1910, with Clarissa S. Williams and Julina L. Smith as her counselors, Olive D. Christensen, secretary, Amy Brown Lyman, assistant secretary, and Emma A. Empey, treasurer. Mrs. Christensen resigned in August, 1913, because of ill health, and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman was made general secretary. In September, 1913, Mrs. Susa Young Gates was made corresponding secretary. The Woman's Exponent continued during the years, being the accredited organ of the Society, although not owned or controlled by the Society. President Emmeline B. Wells carried on her labors in this field of activity as secretary and editor, and at last as president and editor, until March, 1914, when the Exponent ceased publication. During the four years of Mrs. Wells' presidency, all of the old interests have been carried along steadily. A number of younger women have been added to the General Board and new fields have been developed for Relief Society workers. Among these may be mentioned, the opening of a Relief Society Home, the introduction of a Guide, with unified study outlines; the regulation of conference dates in connection with the labors of the Church correlation committee; genealogical class work; burial insurance for women, the preparation and sale of wedding and burial clothing, special missionary work, and the publication of the Relief Society Magazine. All of this later work has been undertaken under the wise and inspired direction of President Joseph F. Smith who has taken a deep personal interest in regulating the affairs of this Society. From these beginnings have grown the immense and fruitful work which now marks the progress of this Society. There were eighteen members enrolled at the initial meeting; two years later, there were over 1,200, while today the Society numbers nearly 45,000 women.

OBJECT OF THE SOCIETY.

The Prophet Joseph Smith gave the sisters the following counsel in the first meeting held in Nauvoo:

116 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

He said that the object of the Society was to provoke the brethren to good works, to look after the wants of the poor, to search after objects of charity, and to administer to their wants; to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community, and thus to save the elders the trouble of rebuking. At another time he said that he was deeply interested in the Society, that it might be built up in a most high and acceptable manner, that the Society should grow by degrees, being a select company of the virtuous, and those who would walk circumspectly. One particular feature of the Society was to purge out iniquity. He said, "All difficulties which might and would cross our way must be surmounted, though the soul be tried, the heart faint, and hands hang down." We must not retrace our steps, he said, and there must be decision of character aside from sympathy — and when instructed we must obey that voice; we must observe the laws of God that the blessings of heaven may rest down upon us — that all must act in concert or nothing can be done — that the Society should move according to the Ancient Priesthood, hence there would be a select Society separate from all the evils of the world, choice, virtuous and holy. He said he was going to make of this Society a kingdom of priestesses as in Enoch's day, as in Paul's day, and that it is the privilege of each member to live long and enjoy health. — Nauvoo Relief Society Minutes, Historian's Office.

ORGANIZATION.

General, Stake, Local. The General Board of the Relief Society presides over the stake and ward organizations in much the same way as the general authorities of the Church preside over the stakes and wards of Zion. The Board now numbers twenty-three directors, out of which are chosen a General President, two Counselors, a General Secretary, a Corresponding Secretary, and General Treasurer. The other directors are grouped in committees representing the general activities of the Society. There is a General Chorister and an Organist who have charge of the General Relief Society choir, and who supervise the music for General conferences. The sixty-nine stakes are each organized with a central or Stake Board with like officers and similar duties to those of the General Board. Each ward is similarly organized. Where other aid than the regular officers is required, either in local or stake boards, sisters may be called in as missionaries, or members of the board. The regular ward officers are a president, two counselors, a secretary, and a treasurer, a corps of teachers, and where possible a librarian, a music director, and a chorister, may be added.

CIRCULAR OF INSTRUCTIONS.

117 Both stake and ward organizations may have committees who take charge of the temple clothes, genealogical and temple work, special missionary work, insurance, wheat, and guide work, and all other activities in which the stake or the ward Society may be engaged. All officers and members of the general, stake, and local Relief Society, while acting independently in their own sphere of activity, are under the controlling power of the priesthood, vested in the Presidency of the Church, the Presidency of the Stake, and the Bishopric of the Ward.

ORGANIZATION OF STAKE OR WARD RELIEF SOCIETY. The organization or the reorganization of the Relief Society, local, stake and general, is under the direct supervision, and is effected by the local, stake, or general authorities of the Church. The Relief Society is an auxiliary to the priesthood, and therefore under its immediate care and guidance. When the President dies, resigns, or is removed, reorganization necessarily follows. The remaining officers should carry on the work of the Society until the reorganization takes place. Notice of the death of any officer should be sent by the secretary, at once, to the proper authority. Having no written constitution and by-laws in this Society, the decisions of the Presidency of the Church and the General Presidency of this Society form our constitution. This elastic provision permits the constantly revivified current of inspiration and progress to flow through the channels of the Relief Society from the least to the greatest; thus constituting this Society a living social organism. The Prophet gave the following counsel to the sisters in Nauvoo, when organizing the Society: "Let the Presidency serve as a constitution. All their decisions shall be considered as law, and acted upon as such. The minutes of your meeting will be precedent for you to act upon — your constitution and by-laws." All officers of the Society should be women who observe the Sabbath day; who honor the Word of Wisdom; who wear their garments according to the rules of the House of the Lord, and who strive to keep all the laws of God. All games of chance and cards should be avoided by the officers and members of the Society.

STAKE AND WARD PRESIDENTS. It is the duty of the stake president and officers to instruct the officers of the various local associations of the stake, by letter or by personal visit, in all matters, following the counsel imparted 

118 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. to them by the Priesthood and by the General Board. Before taking any action in important matters, the stake president should obtain the consent and approval of the stake priesthood presidency. The stake president should preside over all meetings of her board and in her stake conferences, unless she desires one of her assisting officers to perform that duty for her. It is appropriate and courteous occasionally to invite the counselors to conduct meetings. She should, if possible, attend the general conferences of the Relief Society, her expenses, when necessary and possible, to be paid from the stake society treasury. The stake president should provide for the holding of stake and board meetings at least 

Stake twice a month. Some stake officers meet weekly, Meetings. especially when studying the outlines — so that they may be thoroughly familiar with the lessons prepared. This is an excellent plan, as all officers should be well informed on the lesson course adopted by the Society. Union meetings of stake and local officers should be held at least once a month. The stake president and her counselors and Visits. associates should visit the local organizations as often as possible so that the presidency may come in direct communication with those who are under their care. Visits to distant wards should be made at least once a year. The stake president should see that ward Reports. reports are promptly prepared by ward presidents or secretaries and forwarded to the stake secretary, and that the stake report is sent by the stake secretary to the general secretary; she must note that ward and stake minutes are properly recorded, that all accounts are accurately kept, and that affairs in general are in good condition in her stake. A stake president, who is incapacitated for any reason, or who intends leaving her home for any extended period, should consult with the presiding priesthood as to her resignation. It is unwise for any board to be left without an active head. The stake and the ward presidents of a Relief Society should be, above all things, women possessing an unshaken testimony of the truth of this gospel and of the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith.

The presidents should be women who have received their blessings in the Temple; any exceptions to this rule, for missions, or otherwise, are under the direct counsel of the local priesthood. Moreover, they should have learned well the lesson of obedience to the priesthood, and be ready to inculcate that doctrine among their associates. The gospel will give them the spirit of love and meekness, of charity and long suffering, and their spirits will be mellowed by its beautiful influence, if they preside among their sisters, as Latter-day Saints.

CIRCULAR OF INSTRUCTIONS. 119

Detailed Ward officers should write to the stake Information. president for all detailed information concerning the nature and conduct of their work. When desired, stake officers may pass such points up to the General Board. There is an order in all our work, and ward officials should not pass over the heads of the stake presidency by addressing inquiries to the General Board. The president, counselors, secretary and treasurer may be set apart by the priesthood for their offices, but if this is not convenient, let them proceed with the work on hand, until such time as this matter can be attended to. The president may have a voice in the Filling Vacancies in Boards. selection of her counselors and missionaries, or members of her board, but if the priesthood have taken this matter in hand and chosen the sisters for these offices, let the president be glad that she is thus honored with the attention and confidence of the priesthood. In the absence of the president at any meetPresiding ing, the first counselor should take charge and Officer in carry forward the business of the meeting. If Meetings. she be not present, the second counselor would take charge, then the secretary, then the treasurer, and then the various members of the board in line of precedence. If all the leading officers are absent, any member may arise and move that the meeting shall begin, and name a temporary chairman, then a temporary secretary should be chosen, and the business of the meeting go forward. If officers should at any time be very late, it is perhaps well to carry out this order, so that the whole meeting shall not wait upon belated officers.

COUNSELORS. It is the duty of the counselors of the president, whether stake or local, to attend to meetings, to take part in all business discussions and programs, and to preside in the absence of the president. The counselors should assist in visiting the branches and members. They may act upon committees, and do such work as the president may indicate. It is the duty of the counselors to assist the president, but not to lead out in any work except when called to do so by the president. They should visit their president often and ascertain if there is anything they can do to assist. They should take part in organizing branches, and assist in entertaining visitors, or in any social function which may be under way. A counselor is to counsel in the spirit of meekness and love, with long suffering and charity, and above all, when a decision of the President and Board is made, it is the duty of the counselor to loyally sustain that action and refrain from adverse comment on the subject to anyone whatsoever.

120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

SECRETARY. The general secretary, the stake secretary, and the local secretary, may each perform her duty without assistance, or she may have an assistant secretary, a recording secretary, a corresponding secretary, or all three of these. The secretary should be a woman with a general education, able to take brief minutes, which record the business and vital discussions. The secretary should have a regular weekly conference with her president. System, order, and regular methods should mark her labors. She should attend all meetings, and if unable to do so, should be sure that her assistant, or some one qualified, is there to take her place. Minutes are the history of an organization, and should be treated as a sacred trust. Minutes should never be taken on slips of loose paper that are likely to be lost, but should be written in a pencil note-book and transcribed weekly into the permanent record; nor should minutes be kept carelessly lying about the home of the secretary. A tin or galvanized box is a good investment in which to place minutes under lock and key. The retiring secretary should at once turn over her minutes — both note books and record books — to her successor. There is no exception to this rule. Tiresome discussions should not be reported at length, nor vague reports made of unimportant circumstances.

In copying minutes, a margin of an inch should be left on the left hand side of the page. In this margin, headings or sub-headings of the important points in each paragraph should be written. This is convenient for reference and invaluable as history. The place and date of each meeting should be repeated at the head of each set of minutes. Only motions which are carried should be recorded. If necessary to make any record of suggestions made, or of discussions, this should be done in briefest possible manner, only the topics discussed being named, together with those which are absolutely essential to record. When discussions concern unfinished business, it is well to merely note them, so that they may come up suggestively in the minutes at the beginning of the next meeting, when the business may be completed. It is not necessary, nor in good taste, for secretaries to comment on programs or addresses. They may, or may not, have been eloquent, timely, or interesting, but as a rule, secretaries should not record their own opinions in this way. If necessary to summarize a speech, address, or remarks in conferences where important speakers have been present, it is well to note the topics treated by the various speakers, as well as the names and titles of speakers. If it should happen that the General President of the Society be present, or if the conference should be favored with the presence of the President of the Church, or others of the leading brethren or sisters, it would be wise to give as full and complete a report as may be possible or consistent of such addresses or sermons. Newspaper reports differ very much from minutes, and it is good exercise for the secretary to acquaint herself with the mode of preparing a press report of any important public gathering. All changes in ward offices should be reported at once to the stake secretary by the ward secretary. Changes occurring in stake offices should be immediately reported by the stake secretary to the general secretary at headquarters. The annual reports of the ward should be promptly prepared by the ward secretary and forwarded by her to the stake secretary, to be compiled into the stake reports. The stake secretary should promptly prepare her reports and forward them to the general secretary. A complete set of books will be ready before the close of the year of 1915. These books will be arranged for weekly meetings, and for the recording of all activities.

TREASURER. The general treasurer, the stake treasurer, and the ward treasurer should receive and bank all moneys which belong to the Society. The treasurer will exercise extreme care in her responsible duties, for it is the pride of this Society that in the seventy-three years of its existence, no funds have ever been misappropriated, nor have any of our faithful treasurers been untrue to the trust reposed in them. The thousands, nay millions, of dollars which have been handled by this Society since its inception have passed through the hands of the devoted women who have gathered and disbursed them, leaving each and all with clean hands and pure hearts. The treasurer should know something of bookkeeping, so that she may keep her charity fund, her membership dues, and stake and ward fund, and all of the special funds, separate and distinct upon her books. She should understand, clearly, that money which is gathered for one purpose cannot be deflected or turned to any other purpose. The treasurer should not issue checks for money on verbal order from any officer of the Society. A written order from the president of the Society, countersigned by the secretary is the only voucher which the treasurer can safely accept. No moneys should be drawn from the ward treasury without the consent and approval of the ward officers; and in like manner, no money should be drawn from the stake, or general treasury without the consent and knowledge of the stake officers or the General Board who constitute locally and generally the directors of the various departments and branches of the Relief Society. The ward treasurer should gather in her annual dues promptly, and send them to the stake treasurer who in turn sends them to the general treasurer in January. Great confusion results when ward treasurers send annual dues to the general treasurer. It is a rule that must be invariable that ward treasurers report only to their stake treasurer, and she only shall remit moneys to our general treasurer.

TEACHERS. Perhaps the most unique and efficient feature of the work of the Relief Society is found in the corps of teachers which is an indispensable feature of each Society.

These teachers may be few or many, according to the size and number of districts which they visit in their labor among the people. They are the select ones among the faithful, efficient and capable sisters who form the body of the Society. The teacher's practical duty consists in visiting once each month, under the direction of the Relief Society presidency, every Latter-day Saint home in her especial district, collecting charity funds and materials each month. Some districts may cover only a city block, while others may stretch over long reaches of country farm homes. Teachers may profitably visit the homes of non-"Mormons," if they are tactful and avoid unpleasant discussions. Many non-members are charitable, and will be glad to contribute to the worthy poor in their neighborhood. In some stakes, the teachers and Relief Society special missionaries have been instrumental in converting many persons. The teachers visit their districts in pairs, as is the custom of the teachers of the Priesthood. Before starting out upon their work, the teachers should be fortified with an earnest prayer for guidance, and the sweet spirit of the gospel. The salutation of the ancient Hebrew might well be on the lips of the teachers as they enter the portals of every home, "Peace be unto this house." An invitation should be given by the teacher to every woman in the ward to attend the Relief Society meeting. The conversation of the teachers should be tactfully directed towards the principles of the gospel, and the conversation should lead into channels which will reveal the spiritual and temporal condition of the homes into which they go. This can be done without offense, if the good spirit attends upon the teacher. If there are any ill feelings with the mother or children in the home, or between neighbors, perhaps a word of encouragement and hope from the teachers may drive away the clouds of depression and gloom in the household. If there is any want, sickness, or destitution in the home, these should be discretely discovered, and if the case is pressing, that condition should be reported immediately to the president of the Relief Society, and measures taken, at once, to relieve that need. The funds and materials gathered by the teachers are taken to the first meeting of the month which is the work and business meeting; where distribution to the needy is also provided for. In some stakes, the teachers have printed cards, in which are reported the various points noted in their monthly visits. We give here a suggestive copy of such a report, which may be used if desired: RELIEF SOCIETY TEACHER'S REPORT. For District No., Ward..... for 191. May 1 June Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. July Aug. Sept. Oct. April Nov. Number of Homes Number of NonNumber of Homes Amount Cash Rel Amount Merchant Extra Time Spent in Charity Work 1 Did I Use Topic of Did I Attend. Bus1 In some stakes, the teachers have a printed personal card which is left at the door when no one is at home. The card shows the teacher has performed her duty. Note. — The sweet courtesy of the gospel will inspire the teachers who go into the homes of the people, and if, perchance, they should not always meet with like courtesy and dignity, the teachers will understand and quickly forgive such as may unwittingly give offense. CHOIR LEADER. Each stake and branch Relief Society should have, if possible, a well organized choir, and this of course necessitates a faithful choir leader. Music is a very beautiful part of our public worship, and happily the exercise of the art is, in most cases, its own exceeding reward. The duty of the stake or ward choir leader is to provide suitable music for opening and closing exercises, and where desired, special musical numbers may be given. Congregational singing should, perhaps, be the rule in the regular meetings of the Society. Hymns should be chosen because of the inspiring character of both words and music. If the choir leader is sufficiently interested and alive to her duty to furnish special numbers during the progress of the meeting or conference, she should be encouraged. She should not, however, so embarrass the program committee with extra musical numbers that there is no chance for the rest of the program to go on in its uninterrupted way. Tact, as well as industry, should mark the labors of stake and choir leaders, as, indeed, of all other officers of the Society. ORGANIST. Second only to the choir leader in importance is the diligent organist who works as hard, gives as noble service, and is as much an integral part of the official board as any member thereof.

She, too, will appreciate a word of gratitude and encouragement from her superior officers.

LIBRARIAN. The choice for librarian, general, stake or local, would necessarily fall on a well-read and intelligent woman. She should be well versed in general literature; but, above all things, she should know the value and glory of all our sacred books, and be able to instruct and inspire others with like zeal for a literature, pure and undefiled. She should guard the books jealously, keep accurate record of them, and insist on proper cases for their preservation. After a library is well stocked with the Church books and home authors, it is time enough to begin with fiction or light literature. The best first, should be the librarian's motto. A good dictionary, and encyclopedia, general histories and biographies would form the foundation of a library, after securing the Church works.

CIRCULAR OF INSTRUCTIONS.

MEMBERSHIP. Any woman of good character, from the oldest to the youngest, and who desire to unite with the Society will be welcomed therein. The applicant should be recommended by a member, and be received by a unanimous vote of the members present. Non-members of the Church may become members of the Society, but cannot hold office.

MEMBERSHIP DUES, AND ROLL. A roll of all Relief Society members should be kept in the record book, and as many pages shall be reserved for the recording of names as may be necessary. A second roll may be kept of the active membership. When members attend infrequently care should be taken to give them credit.

HALL, FIFTH WARD, PROVO. RELIEF SOCIETY

In conformity with the instructions of the Prophet Joseph Smith each new member should be recommended by a member in good standing and should sign her name to the roll. No name should be removed from the roll except First, by request of the individual. Second, by a two-thirds vote of the members for good and sufficient reason. Opposite the names of members removed or deceased, the word removed or deceased should be written. A regular roll book should be used by the secretary, in which the names of regular attendants shall be kept, with sufficient space to add the names of properly enrolled non-attending members, as they may attend the meetings or be received into membership. The membership dues should be collected the second week in January by the teachers, who should be furnished the names of enrolled members in their districts. All dues should be remitted to the general treasurer during the month of January. All members, whether able to attend meetings or not, should pay their regular dues.

MEETINGS AND CONFERENCES. The local meetings of the Society should be held weekly on Tuesday, usually at 2:00 p.m. The first meeting is a work and business meeting, the second meeting is the testimony and theology meeting; the other two meetings take up the studies given in our outline from year to year. The time of the first meeting is occupied with business reports from the teachers, receiving and disbursing charity funds, with a consideration of cases of want, with the making of quilts, carpets, or clothing for the needy, or with any other matters of regular or special business that may come before the local society — the building or furnishing of Relief Society houses, libraries, the storing of grain, the drying of fruit, the plans for bazaars or social functions, the purchasing of property, the building of granaries or libraries. Indeed, all the forms of activity which constitute the practical side of our work is considered in the business sessions of the Society. The other three meetings are devoted to the study of the lesson work which is furnished by the General Board of the Society, and approved by the Correlation Committee of the General Authorities. The conduct of these meetings follows the accepted order in this Church for the similar business or study meeting. The general plan or order would be, — 1. Singing. 2. Prayer. 3. Singing. 4. Roll Call. 5. Minutes. 6. Work, Testimony or Lessons. 7. Singing. 8. Benediction. Note. Where five meeting days occur in one month the Society is at liberty to use the day as convenience may require.

CIRCULAR OF INSTRUCTIONS.

When business is conducted by the presiding officers in this Society, they should follow the order of procedure mapped out by any good parliamentarian — Roberts' Rules of Order being the accepted guide for procedure. Of all the meetings, the testimony and business meeting is the most important. It is the foundation upon which all the other work rests. Officers and members alike should give it their best attention.

Ward officers should meet—preferably once a week—or as often as may be consistent or required. These meetings are held to discuss the business of the Society and to prepare the way for new work to be introduced, and for old work to be completed. The General Board holds weekly meetings as well as occasional special meetings to prepare the work for the Society.

GUIDE WORK. The General Board have provided special studies for the local wards, and these lessons, which occupy the last three meetings in the month, should all be studied. If the Society can cover all the work in the Guide, and find time to follow other lines of study, they may be permitted to do so, if they will communicate with the General Board. But it would be a mistaken policy, when lessons are provided for all, to permit individual wards or stakes to choose their own, and to reject that which has been prepared by the proper authority. This rule would not apply to missions, altogether, for their situation is different, and their requirements are varied. More latitude could be allowed to mission presidents of the Relief Society, but they should communicate with the General Board. Their work, done in the missions, will be under the direct charge of the Presidents of the Missions.

CONFERENCES, GENERAL, STAKE AND LOCAL. Most of the wards hold an annual conference, which is visited by the stake president or her representatives. Programs are sometimes provided for these gatherings, and should not be too long to permit of instructions from the visitors. Stake conferences are held semi-annually, one of them being known as the annual conference, which is marked by the visit of some General Board representative.

FUNDS. This Society has three great funds to which it contributes, also a number of special funds. All of these are optional, with the exception of the membership dues, and are regulated according to circumstances and conditions, both local and general. The decision of the Presidency of the Church, in a recent case, was that funds donated for one purpose should not be used for any other purpose. These funds are: Charity Fund. Membership Dues. Stake and Local Dues. Special Funds.—Wheat fund, building fund, genealogy and temple fund, missionary fund, library fund, etc.

CHARITY FUND. The Charity fund consists of means gathered by the teachers in their visits to the homes of the people. This may be any sum from five cents upward. No case of want or sickness is neglected in the midst of this people, where Relief Society teachers are active and alive to their duties. There has never been any need for asylums and homes for the neglected poor, and forsaken aged, amongst this people. So far in our history, these have always been cared for and supported by the kind hearts and willing hands about them. In the year 1913, there were $66,236.16 collected in the Charity funds by all the branches of this organization. No one who collects or distributes this amount receives a penny for her services. It may be said of the sisters of the Relief Society that freely they have received, and freely have they given. None of these funds are handled by the General Board except the general membership dues. The various funds are administered by the Relief Society officers in the wards and stakes of Zion for the purposes for which they were gathered. Few realize what great sums have been gathered, for various purposes, in this Society, by the saving of Sunday eggs. Sister Sarah Petersen, wife of President Canute Petersen, of Sanpete Stake, introduced this novel idea many years ago, and it is still in force in some parts of the Church.

MEMBERSHIP DUES. For many years, the current expenses of the Relief Society General Officers were borne by themselves. As years and complex conditions made this impossible, an annual membership due was provided. For some years, this due was 10c only. In October, 1913, at a business meeting of the general conference of the Society, the annual membership due was increased to 25c. This money is gathered by the ward officers, and is sent by the ward treasurer to the stake treasurer annually, and should reach the General Office in Salt Lake City in January of each year. The money so gathered is used for office rent, for the traveling expenses of missionaries sent out from the General Board to the various stakes to visit conferences and conventions; for publishing circulars; for clerical hire; and for such other items as pertain to the conduct of this Society.

It may be surprising to learn that thousands of dollars are spent in the visits of the General Board who travel to Canada, New Mexico, Colorado, Idaho and California, and sometimes foreign countries, visiting both near and far-away stakes. The distant stakes are usually the least able to pay the large expenses for the trips which must be made in order to reach them. As it is, the burden falls on each alike, and is felt by none. 

STAKE AND WARD EXPENSE FUND. It costs something to meet the stake expenses as well as to carry on the ward work in the various branches of the Society. The manner in which these funds shall be collected, and the amount of such funds are left with each stake and ward to determine, according to conditions and needs. 

SPECIAL FUNDS. Wheat Fund. This branch of Relief Society work is peculiar to this Society. It was begun, under the instructions of President Brigham Young, in 1876. He gave this mission to President Emmeline B. Wells, and since that date, many thousands of bushels of wheat have been collected and stored by this Society. At the present time, Dec, 1914, the Society has on hand 157,000 bushels of wheat; 43,000 bushels of this is deposited in Church elevators, 70,000 bushels are stored in Relief Society granaries, 23,000 in local granaries, and 21,000 bushels in sundry repositories. There are $33,756 invested in local granary buildings which make $190,869 belonging properly to this wheat fund. This wheat should not be loaned by the Society to individuals or institutions. It is gathered for a specific purpose, and the counsel of the Presidency of the Church is to leave it undisturbed where it is deposited. Local authorities are not justified in disposing of this wheat, nor can wards or stakes use the wheat for any other purpose than that for which it was gathered. Wheat is gathered by gleaning, and by donation, as well as by purchase from the funds donated for that purpose. The need was never greater for this form of organized charity than today. The wheat or the funds may be gathered by the local teachers 

130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. 

or by a local committee which may be formed for that purpose. As to the storing of the grain, we quote from the recent circular of the Presiding Bishopric: "For years past, the matter of storing wheat has been a difficult problem with the Relief Society. In some cases local granaries have been built at considerable cost, with additional expense for their maintenance. There have been reported many sad experiences involving loss of grain from various causes. And while the policy and practice of storing wheat is not changed, but on the contrary is to be encouraged, we desire to change the method of storing wheat and thus prevent the expensive outlay incident to the erection of granaries and their maintenance, a cost which is often out of all proportion to the value of the wheat stored in these structures. "Where there are no local facilities for storing wheat with safety, arrangements may be made with the Presiding Bishopric to take money in lieu of wheat. The money so received will be invested in wheat, and the wheat will be stored in central elevators, in places where wheat is abundant and where railway facilities make it accessible. In arranging for storage and in selling wheat the stake Relief Society officers should consult with the presidency of the stake." 

Building Fund. Many of our wards have built commodious and useful halls for the use of the Relief Society. They have also invested somewhat in real estate, buildings, stocks, and bonds, beside the money spent for the building of local granaries. The Society has $107,574 invested in Relief Society halls; they have $33,756 invested in Relief Society granaries; they have $7,875 invested in other real estate and buildings. This makes a sum total of $149,205 owned in real estate and buildings by the ward and stake organizations of this Society. In later years, the ward authorities have provided comfortable quarters for the Relief Society in the newly erected meeting houses in all parts of the Church. Usually the women have contributed to this purpose. When, therefore, the sisters have an opportunity of having commodious rooms or halls in the ward buildings, it would be unnecessary and unwise, perhaps, to erect their own buildings; but such wards as do possess a hall, built by the Relief Society, are to be congratulated. Funds may or may not be collected, therefore, for quarters for the Society, and the officials of each ward may or may not invest means in buildings or real estate. These matters are left largely to local and stake officers.

The Society donated $8,500 to the Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, and thus secured permanent headquarters in that commodious structure. Maintenance of these quarters costs a goodly annual sum but the offices are spacious and elegant. General officers' meetings are held here at conference time, and our members are always welcome at our rooms.

REAL ESTATE AND BUILDINGS

All real estate or buildings belonging to Relief Societies, or which may hereafter be acquired by them, should be held by the Bishop of the ward in trust for them, as all ward properties are held by him. Presidents should consult the bishopric in regard to any questions which may arise in this matter. We quote the following from the "Circular of Instructions No. 12," issued in 1913, by the Presiding Bishop: "68. There is a law in operation in the States of Utah, Idaho and Arizona which permits a bishop to become a corporation sole and vests the corporate powers in him and his successors in office. When a bishop ceases to hold his office his successor by operation of the law succeeds to all the rights of his predecessor by filing, with the county recorder of the county in which the ward is located, a certified copy of his appointment. Such corporation should hold the title to all ward property, including tithing and Relief Society and other local property."

Genealogical Funds.

This department of Relief Society activity is somewhat new to our workers. Since the lessons in genealogy have been provided for study in our lesson guide, many wards have felt the necessity of a special fund to carry on some details of the work. In some wards, there is a committee on burial or temple clothing, and where wards are distant from temple districts, this is perhaps an excellent plan. These two committees may, or may not be combined in one department. The genealogical and temple work fund may be used to pay the expenses of some poor individuals or couples to spend time in a temple, doing their own work, or work on charity lines. Some wards have a committee to act as an exchange bureau for genealogical information and labor. This committee secures names from people who are unable to go to the temple themselves, or hire anyone else to do so, and these names are furnished to others who want to go to the temple, but who have no lists to work upon. A committee might engage in the collection of funds, which can be sent to the temple in the district, with lists of names accompanying the money. Any further instructions on this subject should be applied for from the temple authorities, or from the Genealogical Committee of the General Board. Funds collected for this purpose naturally should not be used for any other. The committee can arrange temple excursions, which may become annual or semi-annual, or even monthly affairs. The genealogical class teachers should learn how to prepare the temple sheets and names, so that when the party reaches the temple, the recorder's work is made comparatively light. Genealogical conventions may be held from time to time, and teachers may be secured from the Genealogical Society to any stake, if the request is made to the secretary of the Genealogical Society, Historian's Office, Salt Lake City. The committee on genealogy should work in harmony with the stake and local agents of the Genealogical Society.

Missionary Fund.

In some wards, a missionary fund has been established. This may be used to assist young men or women missionaries who are laboring out in the field to preach the gospel, or it may be used for the assistance of needy families, whose head and bread winner, is out preaching the gospel. Like the other special funds, this fund is entirely optional.

Library Fund.

In some wards, a very good library is owned by the Society with book-cases in which to preserve the books. This example cannot be too highly recommended to each ward president. The Prophet Joseph Smith urged this people to read good books, and to acquaint themselves with every branch of learning and art possible for mortals to obtain. The recommendation of the General Board is always in favor of a good library, which is used either by circulation amongst the members, or in any other form consistent with our usual work. Funds or books may be collected by the officers, and book-cases should be provided. Relief Society halls, not otherwise needed, might make excellent quarters for a semi-public circulating Relief Society library.

Note. — The foregoing is an indication of the funds raised and used by the Society.

There have been, are, and no doubt will be, other means collected for purposes not herein named. The growing and changing needs of a great Society like this necessitates an elastic plan of operation which will adapt itself to any and all legitimate requirements.

RELIEF SOCIETY COMMITTEES.

The activities of the Society may be indicated by a glance at the standing committees of the General Board. They show the extended nature of the work undertaken by the women who labor in this Society:

Outline Committee.
Magazine Advisory Committee.
Correlation Committee.
Wheat Committee.
Genealogical Committee.
Public Health Committee.
Temple Clothing Committee.
Nurse School Committee.
Peace Committee.
Relief Society Home Committee.
Insurance Committee.
Special Missionary Committee.
Finance Committee.
Music Committee.
Stake Conference Committee.

134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

NURSE CLASS WORK.

The object of the Relief Society School of Nurses is to provide relief for the destitute. Also to provide those in moderate circumstances with the services of a practical nurse in their homes. Women and girls who desire a professional training in nursing as a source of livelihood may here receive such training, and thus become not only self-supporting but a blessing to the community. Presidents of stakes and wards should choose women whose ideals are of the highest type for this work, and, if possible, the candidates should have at least an eighth grade education. If the applicant has had a good course along domestic lines, this will increase her efficiency, and enhance her value.

The Relief Society, during its whole existence, has engaged in charitable nursing though for years there was no special training for the work. In our rural communities today, all of the nursing done for the destitute and needy is by the Relief Society teachers and members, as well as by our Relief Society nurses. A dozen years ago, a regular course in the study of nursing as a science was instituted by the General Board, classes being held in this city, the applicants coming from all over the Church. These students are recommended by the Relief Society ward president, and the ward society pays for their tuition. The nurse-students find homes in the city, where they can do domestic labor for their board, as a rule, while taking the course. The applicant agrees to spend one month in doing free charitable work on her return home during her first year for the privileges she has secured in this inexpensive training in the vital art of nursing the sick. Accounts are kept of this work, and the Relief Society nurses of Salt Lake City are listed by our General Superintendent of Relief Society nurses, Mrs. Emma A. Empey. They are in great demand most of the time. Since the erection of the Groves L. D. S. Hospital our sisters may enter that institution, and secure diplomas after a three year's course, which qualifies them for the most technical and difficult cases, and constitutes them professional nurses. Hundreds of women have taken this Relief Society course and the professional Hospital course, and have done a wonderful work throughout the Church. During the period of eight years 233 women and girls have been graduated from the Relief Society course, the graduation occurring biennially. Three thousand five hundred and forty days of charity work have been spent by our nurses in Salt Lake City, during the eight years, 109 nurses having participated in this benevolent cause; 124 nurses not residents of Salt Lake City have done charity work in

CIRCULAR OF INSTRUCTIONS. 135

their own respective towns and villages throughout Utah and the neighboring states during the eight years.

TEMPLE CLOTHING COMMITTEE.

Where advisable, temple clothing committees may be organized in wards and stakes. These will provide such apparel as is necessary for loan or hire, for those who go to the temple. Burial clothes may also be prepared by these committees. People who engage the services of these committees or of the Society itself, to prepare burial clothing, should certainly be willing to pay as much for such material and the labor of making it up, as they would pay to the ordinary undertaker. If the one for whom this clothing is prepared, has been a charge upon the Society, and the friends and relatives are not able to pay for the clothing, a donation is always in order. But those who are able to pay for the material or labor, should not impose upon the sisters of the Relief Society, either for funds, clothing, or time. The General Board of the Relief Society have an efficient committee who have two departments of this labor, one for burial clothes, and one for the accommodation of people who wish to work in the temple. Their office is at headquarters, in the Bishop's Building; the chairman of that committee is Mrs.

Julina L. Smith, Beehive House, No. 67 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City. Ward officers and members should apply to Stake Presidents for assistance, for patterns and for information. If Stake Presidents desire any information or assistance in these matters they may apply to the General Secretary. RELIEF SOCIETY HOME. Through the generosity of the presiding authorities of the Church, a Home has been provided for the Relief Society, where our sisters who come to the city and wish to obtain clean, respectable and modest apartments can do so at a very nominal fee. This Home is situated opposite the north gate of the Temple block, and rooms may be secured on personal application, or through letter. LUCY MACK HOME. The Ensign Stake Relief Society have established a home for wage-earning girls, which they call the Lucy Mack Home. This happy project is under the direct inspiration and supervision of Miss Maud May Babcock who, associated with Mrs. W. W. Riter, originated the thought and brought it to successful issue. Girls are welcome here, and find cheap and comfortable lodgings when 136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. they are not in service, or if working in stores. It is situated on First avenue. EMPLOYMENT BUREAU. There is an Employment Bureau in operation in the Presiding Bishop's Office, which provides places for women and girls who desire to work out, while those who need hired help, may apply to the Bishop's Office and secure whatever help may be available. This Employment Bureau works indirectly in connection with the Relief Society office, but is under the direct charge of Elder Frank W. Penrose. Mothers who send their girls to this city for employment should instruct them to apply to this Bureau, or to the Lucy Mack Home for Girls. CAFETERIA. Under the direction of the five city stakes of the Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A., of Salt Lake City, a cafeteria has been opened in the basement of the old Social Hall on State street. Meals are served here at noon, of excellent quality and at a very moderate price. On Saturday evenings, supper may also be obtained. This is a retiring and pleasing place for our sisters to come to whenever they are in the city and desire a noon-day meal. INSURANCE. The General Board of the Relief Society, after a thorough investigation, has introduced Insurance as one of the regular features of its work. Before taking any step toward establishing this department, the matter was presented to the First Presidency. The two letters appended are self-explanatory: Salt Lake City, Utah, Jan. 21, 1914. President Joseph F. Smith and Counselors: Dear Brethren: We would like to know your mind in regard to introducing some benefit insurance into the Relief Society. A number of social and other insurance companies for women are doing quite a profitable business in this community. These fraternal orders — for men and women — took out of the state last year $177,213.79. Some of our sisters join those lodges, while others take out the small benefit insurance from regular companies, some of CIRCULAR OF INSTRUCTIONS. 137 which companies are located in foreign lands. The idea of having a little fund put by with which to meet burial expenses is very attractive to our women. Our sisters have contributed liberally to every form of charity and public activity, such as the building of temples and meeting houses, schools and amusement halls; while doing very much towards furnishing these places. Few have acquired the saving habit, and fewer still are inculcating saving habits in the minds of the young children of today. Too many of our sisters, when they die, are left to the indifferent mercy of relatives, or to the ward authorities. They would be glad to be placed where they could have this last liberal service performed for themselves without being a burden on those left behind. They could, and many would be willing, to pay a small sum monthly which would insure them their modest burial expenses. Some of our young sisters would gladly pay a small monthly sum for school or for a marriage portion that would mature in five, ten, or twenty years. While most children could be taught to put by small sums monthly towards paying for their schooling or missions when old enough for that need. The habit of saving would be of more value to them in developing character than the monetary benefits. We have applied to the Beneficial Life Insurance Company which has our President Joseph F. Smith at its head, and which is also officered by our own brethren, to give us rates and details of such a plan as we have suggested. We enclose a copy of the rate list made out for us.

We would expect to work entirely through the powerful, reliable and courteous company named. Agents would be appointed in each ward and stake, but the business details would be handled by the Beneficial Life Insurance Company. What premiums accrued to our Board over and above the running expenses would be turned to Relief Society work. We lay this matter before you, and trust to hear from you as soon as convenient. We are Your sisters in the Gospel, Emmeline B. Wells, President, Clarissa S. Williams, First Counselor, Julina L. Smith, Second Counselor. Salt Lake City, Utah, Jan. 27, 1914. Prests. Emmeline B. Wells, Clarissa S. Williams, Julina L. Smith, Relief Society. Dear Sisters: We approve the suggestion outlined in yours of the 21st inst., to introduce and maintain a system of benefit insurance in connection with Relief Society, believing that this departure from relief work would be a means of supplying an income for the Society itself, as well as by the means of inducing and encouraging our sisters to form the habit of saving means which otherwise would doubtless be disposed of unwisely. It is understood by us that the officials of the company with whom you have been talking in regard to this matter are to render you all the necessary clerical assistance, especially at the outset; also that the company is to furnish the Society with necessary books, etc., and otherwise co-operate with you with a view to making this movement the success we all wish it to become. Your brethren, Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund, Charles W. Penrose, First Presidency. There are two forms of insurance — the burial insurance and the endowment insurance. The first purpose is to provide funds for burial expenses, and the second for saving purposes for both old and young. Young people may take the latter kind of insurance to secure help for an education, or for funds for missionary purposes. It may be provided by parents or by guardians for children. The Relief Society is offering insurance only to its registered members under the age of 70, and their children. Insurance is offered on three different plans. The first plan is called the Whole Life. For a small payment made each year, as long as the member lives, she is insured for $100 to $300 according to the rate she pays. At any time death occurs, the Society will pay the amount of insurance to the beneficiary designated by the insured. Another plan is the Limited Payment Life where the insured pays a slightly larger amount for a specified number of years, say ten, fifteen or twenty, and after having paid premiums as provided has a certificate paid up which continues the insurance in force for the entire life of the insured, without further payments. Either of these two plans we call our Burial Benefit. The third plan is termed Endowment Insurance, and means that the insured, if she lives to the end of a specified period, either ten, fifteen or twenty years, and makes the payments for these years, will receive the amount of the insurance in cash. Or, should the member die before the expiration of that period, the amount of insurance will, of course, be paid in cash immediately to the beneficiary. Detailed information will be furnished on application to the General Secretary. CIRCULAR OF INSTRUCTIONS. PUBLIC HEALTH. The Health Committee — comprising several members of the Relief Society General Board — have done much in the way of disseminating knowledge for the promotion and maintenance of health conditions. The Utah State Medical Board, and the Salt Lake City Board of Health, have given valuable assistance to the committee, and have been most generous in contributing printed matter on various health subjects. Thousands of pamphlets have been distributed by these boards, and about a thousand by a physician in private practice; these have been sent out by the Health Committee to the Relief Society organizations. The active interest taken in the "fly" campaign resulted in the destruction of literally bushels of flies and made a very noticeable abatement of the fly nuisance throughout the State. In 1913, a trained nurse was employed by the General Board of the Relief Society to give her time at the milk station established by the Salt Lake City Board of Health. This nurse did very effective work, looking after the babies of families who were without means, seeing that they were properly fed with pure milk, and giving advice as to the care of the children. In 1914, the stakes of Salt Lake City raised means to employ nurses for the same work at two different milk stations.

Addresses have been given by members of the committee on prevention of disease, and on sanitation before the Relief Society general conference. Besides that, through the efforts of this committee, physicians who were specialists in their line of work have given addresses on the following subjects: "Care of Eye, Ear, Nose, and Throat," "Posture, and Its Effect on Physical Well-being," "Care of Nervous Children." Also the health articles which have appeared in the Relief Society Bulletin have been prepared by this committee. The entire July and August numbers of the Bulletin, 1914, were prepared by the Health Committee, in connection with the free hygienic literature which was distributed at that time. Whatever subject of this nature comes up before the Board is referred to this committee for consideration and action.

SPECIAL MISSIONARY COMMITTEE.

The Special Missionary Committee which has been operative in our larger cities, has extensive and definite plans of operation and organization. They are engaged in a work of prevention rather than reform. Unprotected girls and wage earners are their especial care.

140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

MAGAZINE.

As in all other matters, the women of this Society have kept in the van of progress. Under the direction of President Brigham Young, assisted by Eliza R. Snow, the Woman's Exponent was started, in 1872, as the organ of the Relief Society of the Church. So far as known, it is the second paper for women ever started in the world. For some years, it was controlled by a committee of the General Board of the Relief Society. Miss Lula Greene (Richards) was its first editor. She was a niece of President Brigham Young and a local writer of some note, although but a young girl at that time. The suggestion of such a periodical was made by that brilliant pioneer journalist, Edward L. Sloan, who was editor of the Herald at the time, to Miss Lula Greene, and together, they edited and managed the little paper. It was first published in the Herald office, and at the death of Brother Sloan, two years later, it was taken over to the Deseret News. For many years the type was set by young girls, and all the work done by women. Miss Lula Greene married, shortly after, and the course and exigencies of her family interfered greatly with this enterprise, so that President Emmeline B. Wells was invited to the position of assistant editor, in 1875, which position she occupied until 1877, when Mrs. Richards resigned, and President Wells became editor-in-chief. This place she filled with faith and diligence for thirty-eight years. For some time Miss Cornelia Home acted as business manager. In later years, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon acted as assistant editor of the Exponent, and was an able journalist and a clear, careful and frequent writer for its pages. The Exponent ceased publication in March, 1914. It was a beacon light to the women of this Church, and an example of independent womanhood to all the world. Its pages were filled with the spirit and genius of the Relief Society work, and the constant advancement and progress of the women of this Church and of the women throughout the world. President Emmeline B. Wells made herself famous in two continents, through its pages, while she won and kept the esteem and admiration of those with whom she mingled at home.

January 1, 1914, the General Board of the Relief Society issued the first number of the Bulletin, which contained the guide lessons newly provided by the General Board, for the use of the Relief Society throughout the Church. The committee, appointed for this work from the Board, undertook to provide 12,500 copies monthly of the Bulletin free of cost to the General Board and to the stake and local authorities of the Society. This obligation has been faithfully carried out. The Advisory Committee were: Clarissa S. Williams, Julina L. Smith, Rebecca N. Nibley; editor, Susa Young Gates; business manager, Janette A. Hyde; assistant business manager, Amy Brown Lyman.

January 1, 1915, the new Relief Society Magazine began its existence. It is owned, edited, and published by the General Board of the Society, and it is the organ and voice of this Society. The price is $1.00 per year. The Magazine covers the usual literary and departmental features, common to such publications. It also contains the guide lessons, and aims to be the printed expression of the various functions and activities of this Society. The same committee, editor, and business managers, as were appointed to carry on the Bulletin, were chosen to conduct the affairs of the Magazine.

ANNUAL DAY.

On the 17th of March, 1842, this Society was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, in Nauvoo, Ill., and this day has been set apart as an annual festival for all stakes, wards, and for the General Board itself. It is quite consistent for cities composed of several wards to meet as a whole in one large gathering place on that day, and combine their efforts in a general program of exercises. Or the day may be remembered by the individual wards, according to their desire and circumstances. It is the custom on that day to read a summary of the first minutes of the organization, and to dwell very particularly on the object and aims of the Society, with other historical phases of its development. It may be a happy custom for the wards so engaged to prepare historical sketches of their own organizations, and preserve the names of the pioneer women who led out in this work in the local wards and associations. Whatever may be done, the women of this Church should remember the debt they owe to the Prophet of God who opened the door and turned the key for this great and marvelous Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Our subscribers will be surprised and no doubt pleased to find this March number just doubled in size. This is due to the fact that the new Circular is in the Magazine, in response to a general demand for information contained therein. Later, we will issue the Circular separately and sell it for 10 cents. The General Board decided to pay the extra cost of printing it in the Magazine, now, thinking to recoup the fund with future sales of the pamphlet circular. We want our sisters who have so loyally subscribed for our Magazine to get the first and the best of everything.

A Prince of Ur.

CHAPTER II. In the Court of the Women.

The tinkle, tinkle, tinkle, of harps, zithers, kinnars, kerens and cymbals rose and fell on the perfumed air of the covered courtyard with mystic regularity. The melody was vague, involved and of a certain monotony, but it was full-throated with illusive suggestion. Suddenly it ceased. And after a poignant pause, the strings again took up a plaint of wordless music. But this time, the motif was the simple and thrilling expression of religion's devotion and purity. No voluptuous throb of love-hunger or pulsing chord of velvet-voiced allurement troubled the simple melody. This second hymn was the sweetness of pure adoration, that other had been the tempestuous call of the individual to his primitive impulses, whether of love or of woe. Both of the melodic strains bit into the memory with keen insistence. The musicians were artists in their pictorial modes of musical expression. Silence, sudden and swift again cut off the music as if some hand had been threading complicated pearls of sound and each had suddenly broken into separate strands.

The covered courtyard in the palace of Ur was empty during this heated afternoon season. But the hidden gallery where the musicians wove their harmonious embroideries of sound sheltered the brown-faced Babylonian harp and flute players, and their leader, who was a curled Babylonian, smiled and bent his body with lithe rhythm. The great flowered court of the women in the palace of the Satrap of Ur was cooled and refreshed with the softly dripping and splashing fountains which played into the alabaster basins beneath. In the dim cloisters of the shaded rooms on the east side of the great courtyard dozens of slaves moved in and out with subdued but persistent activity. They were just now replenishing the lovely vases of gold and jeweled alabaster which graced the half columns of the beautiful rooms or rested low upon the carved pedestals, and every appointment and detail of the luxurious interior was polished and shining with the exquisite care of refined cleanliness. Not a line of fault lay exposed under the softened rays of the western sun, not one lingering atom of blemish marred the glowing purity of this stately harem salon. The exquisitely embroidered curtains, rugs, and cushions which hung or lay scattered about breathed a fragrant delicacy and neatness that was perhaps as apparent to the observant eye as were the shining walls of alabaster and the oriental furnishing of the long hall.

"Your Highness," murmured a messenger who lifted the outer curtain to enter into the august presence of the lovely Lady who sat upon her golden couch busily embroidering at a frame of royal tapestry; "the musicians take their orders from the princess Ischa, and she demands a repetition of the hymn to Ishtar with all the accompanying odes and interludes for this afternoon's entertainment." "So?" said the Princess Sarai. "Then must the princess Ischa have speech with me. Take my mother's signet ring. Ask the Lady Ischa to render me the courtesy of her presence in my boudoir. We shall have speech together. Nay — wait — I will myself attend upon the Lady Ischa and my Lady Milcah shall accompany me. Prepare my train!" The fluttering cortege which rose and grouped themselves about the tall and commanding figure of the Princess Sarai and her younger sister, Milcah, were themselves maidens of rank and beauty in the City of Ur, but their brilliant oriental embroideries and rich jewels did not excel in color or charm the sparkling eyes and the olive-cheeked beauty of these junior princesses of the royal city of Ur. The daughters of the nobles were honored by service to the princess Sarai. Crossing the courts where flowers of heavy odors absorbed the perfumes of the splashing fountains, across the delicately tiled and richly ornamented walks and cloisters of the great enclosure, the Princess and her train passed on, the merry jestings and lively repartees of the damsels passing unchecked by the stately Princess who chose not to interfere with the gay abandon and carefully veiled delight of her handmaidens in what might turn out to be a very pretty encounter between two high born ladies of differing minds. But they kept their chatter discreetly under breath, although the gurgling laugh of very young girlhood would ripple out and silence for the moment by its innocent ringing charge the cruder music of the zithers overhead in the hidden gallery. The musicians had once more returned to the hymn of praise to the glories of Ishtar and her passionate search for Isdubar in the realms of Purgatory. The salon on the west side of the long courtyard in the Women's quarters of the palace was dimly lighted, the sunlight itself being almost a stranger to the whole place; lamps of golden lights stood everywhere though just now but a few were lighted, for it was still too early for the blaze of evening glory which made of this gorgeous interior a symphony of light and color. Color ran riot everywhere in this second salon within the palace. Flame of red and blaze of purple were emblazoned in the tiled walls and the richly embroidered couches of gold and ivory. Great bowls of rare roses and vases of purple passion flowers filled the air with heavy incense. Yet everywhere there was confusion and disorder. A very riot of luxurious appointments, but so crowded, so dust-covered that it was painful for a sensitive person to linger within. On a dais in the center of the inner hall on a carved throne of ivory with legs of gold and handles set with the lion heads of the Assyrian kings sat a very tall and finely moulded maiden, just now allowing her maidens to twine into her long pale gold tresses great purple passion flowers. She looked up quickly as the cortege of her kinswoman filled the outer hall and she rose eagerly to give her greetings to her elder and lovelier relation. "Enter, my lady Sarai. We are honored indeed with the visit of a princess, be she never so close of kin. Maidens, bring my cushions, — nay my princess, thou must sit on my throne when thou doest me the honor of thy presence." Sarai, conscious that her quick impulse had given the other woman the advantage in this possible crossing of wills, nevertheless was wise enough to make the most of her own superior age and position, and she knew that her quick action had its rise in a generous impulse, so that she would not be disconcerted by the half playful homage and the exaggerated courtesy done her by her younger kinswoman. She answered salute by salute, courtesy by courtesy, and gave gentle and deliberate answer to each long and tiresome ceremonial question. The Assyrian court etiquette was at times most distasteful to the frank and candid spirit of the Princess Sarai, reared as she had been in the simple atmosphere of a patriarchal home.

But she had sufficient self-control to hide from the sharp eyes of her hostess the boredom these interminable questions after her own health, that of her maidens, her elder relatives, her birds, her plants, and even her recent exploits in needlework caused her — for she knew that all must be minutely set forth by question and answer before the matter in hand could at all be brought forward. Such ceremonies were a necessity in the Babylonian and Chaldean country, perhaps, where the whole habit of mind and the convolutions of the brain were involved, mystic, and full of suggestive thoughts and blind metaphors, rather than with the direct speech of the pastoral Shemites, whose ways and customs had already become antiquated through the fashions of their more highly cultured Babylonian neighbors. For herself, Sarai preferred the direct and simple tongue of their father, Eber, and she quickly resorted to it the moment the long ceremonies of her greetings had passed over. "My kinswoman, I came this day, to suggest that we shall not set the harps and flutes of our musicians to the hymns of the Assyrian goddess, Ishtar. Though the melody be lovely enough, the influence of music is too potent and the suggestions given to the minds of the young maidens through even the mention of that corrupt goddess' name is too baneful to permit of encouragement in this palace. Say you not so, my kinswoman?" The brilliant eyes of the other princess, Ischa, narrowed till they showed only a baleful glitter across the pale expanse of her low broad brow and her colorless cheek. While the flutter of her thin and glowing red lips proved that this challenge, delivered simply and without effort at concealment, had struck her like a whip stroke, Ischa tapped her long sandaled feet for several moments on the tessellated floor as she sat or rather half reclined on her cushions on the steps of her own throne, at the feet of her visitor. But she did not raise the sword-sharp glance, nor open the scarlet lips for some moments. The air was vibrant with the storm that was brewing. Still Ischa said nothing. "My princess," said Sarai at last, "let us send from our presence the maidens, both yours and mine, and by open speech shall we not come to a quick and harmonious accord on this and other topics that have of late rent our friendship in twain?" With a slow sinuous motion, the lady Ischa swept her arm out towards her own maidens, and all but one of Ischa's train crept quietly and obediently across the darkening court till all but that one had disappeared behind the columns of the outer hall. That one was a tall, black female slave, her ebony head held as high as that of the princess Ischa herself, her half nude body clothed only in the scarlet and purple royal half robe of the Acadians, which glistened in the dim light of the palace halls. She bowed silently before her mistress, and with quiet speech in a deep and richly musical contralto voice, she said: "The light of the evening star goes not out except the sky be overcast entirely with the clouds of distrust and confusion. Let not my star risk her eclipse with clouds which may rise from the very sun itself. I kiss thy feet." The peculiar caress of the black woman on the sandalled foot of the lady Ischa was both a warning and a command, and the lady Ischa silently motioned to her slave to wait at some distance. The black princess, for such she was, arose proudly, and disdaining to sit or crouch, she removed herself at some distance and stood motionless as a statue leaning gracefully against a tall alabaster pillar which held at its apex a small statue of the goddess Ishtar. All of the attendants and servants of the lady Sarai had long since silently obeyed the sign of their mistresses' open palm leaving only Milcah; they had gone into the flowered courtyard there to sport in idle gossip and gay badinage with each other until the clapping of hands of their mistresses should recall them to their light duties. "My lady Ischa," said Sarai, always willing to give the difficult first charge in any honorable encounter, "I have long wanted to have speech with you, for my heart is sore and my faith is tried with the things I am forced to see and hear in this our honored fore-father's home. We were children of two princesses, thou of Acadian blood, I of pure Shemite strain. My mother died when I was born, yours but three years later.

Our fathers have lived and fought and sowed and planted in this our ancestral home for three generations. The great Satrap of this palace, the mighty Terah, is sire though twice or thrice removed, of all this household, save the servants, and our royal attendants. We have grown up at his kindly knees, and though his duty calls him to the wars of his earthly master, the mighty hunter of men, Nimrod, still he hath provided all his sons and daughters to the fourth generation with ample wealth, with all the ancient and modern forms of learning, so that we have found ourselves surrounded with a fortress of care and culture. We are the very rulers of this city of Ur, by reason of his high position, and because of his own long absences, and of the long absence of his formal representatives, Abram and Lot — " "Abram — yes, my princess," interrupted Ischa with a sudden show of vivid interest, "what of our kinsman Abram? Speak more of him." "Peace, my lady, interrupt me not till my story has proceeded to its point. With all the advantages that our forefather Terah hath given us, is it not seemly that we should retain the simple dignity and purity which has formed the bulwark of our traditions nay more of our religion itself?" The visitor paused for a reply, and with an effort, the lady Ischa reared herself lazily, and replied slowly, "My princess speaks of our duty to our father Terah, and in the same breath she rails out at the state religion of Assyria and Babylonia which hath been partially united by our most gracious and holy master and king — Nimrod — blessed be the name of Gilgamesh, of Merodach, and of Nimrod, which is one indivisible, elemental, supernal and mystic. Three in one, fair as the stars and terrible as the sun." Sarai looked in utter dismay at the speaker who recited all these heathen titles and qualities of the brutal ruler Nimrod as if Ischa were herself a very part of that corrupt court which now was determined to deify the rash apostate Nimrod because of his superhuman valor and cunning. She was both amazed and frightened. "Ischa, what are you saying? Do you mean to insinuate to me, your elder, and your queen by right of birth in this palace, that you have turned apostate to the religion of Noah, of Shem, of father Terah?" A PRINCE OF UR. 147 "Apostate — say you so?" cried out Ischa bitterly, in answer; "Who gave the priesthood and the sacred robe thereof to Ham, and he to Cush and he to Nimrod, if not our good father Noah himself? Out upon your scruples, my queen. Out upon your antiquated notions about religion. Shall I live in Babylon and not be one of her own children? Thou knowest full well that all this region hath long since been conquered by the mighty Nimrod, and that Terah himself is but a Satrap of the king. Speakest thou of Terah? Who hath commanded the images to be set up in these very palace courts? Who hath established a workshop in this very palace, and hath set the cunning of Azzi-jaama to fashion from bronze and stone and gold and iron the very images which makes my lady's eyes flash to behold, and her lips to boil as she speaks their names? Who but Terah?" "Thou sayest things that I cannot, will not believe. Terah hath permitted — permitted, I say — the images to be set up — he hath permitted, I say again permitted — Azzi-jaama to grave and tool the horrid gods from stone and gold to sell them to these crazy idol-worshipers. I will not hear you traduce our father Terah — it is wicked — " With a sudden sharp intake of breath, the lady Sarai ceased her speech. Over her now opened mind flooded a thousand confirmatory trifles to prove the truth of the assertions made so coldly and so brazenly by her kinswoman. Could it possibly be true? O, could it? Nay, it was! And with a sudden motion, she laid her head between her upthrown hands and arms and sat astonished. Out in the courtyard the silly chatter of the servants rose and fell with intermittent phrasing. There was babble of laughter, and the tinkle of water in the alabaster basins. While over all there poured an occasional chorus of song birds, those heaven-sent musicians, who sang as they listed nor sought nor found a quarrel with their melody. The Lady Ischa waited a long time. She had plunged her knife deep, she knew that, and she knew too, that from this very moment she had unmasked her own concealed batteries.

Finally, — "My Lady Sarai," she purred, "thou hast come to read me a moral lesson. Let me tell thee some things that have been hid from thy glowing midnight eyes, sharp as they are, and much as thou thinkest they can see. You have spoken of our father Terah; he is a brave old soldier and for him I have the highest reverence. But when thou sayest that all religion but that taught by our simple-minded patriarchs Noah and Shem or Melchizedek is false and vile, thou sayest that which is narrow and full of bigotry. What matter what the road traveled, if it leadeth men to worship a god or a pantheon of them? They all satisfy the human craving for worship, and men are as different as are the stars in heaven. There are gods many and lords many. Leave the Assyrian to worship his own, even if he thinks them encased in bodies of wood and stone, and stretch out the boundaries of thy own constricted and prejudiced soul to know that the God of heaven will understand His children better than thou."

Sarai listened to this specious argument impatiently. But she had not come for argument but for an understanding. And it was thrust upon her with such violence and such convincing logic that she was in despair. She made no reply. But sat quite aghast upon her seat of gold and alabaster, while her arms covered her quivering features.

"Be more like a woman and less like a frozen statue, Sarai. Thou art so self-righteous that thou hast no manner of charity for others who may be quite as good and as wise as thou." Still the Lady Sarai sat with covered face while the other poured vinegar into her wounds. "My lady, thou hast ever been the vast superior of all that dwelt within these walls. Thou hast preened thyself upon thy known superior beauty" — the Lady Sarai quivered as if she had been struck by her assailant's hand — "and thou hast ground my own poor face beneath thy heel for lo! these many years. We are not sisters of the blood, nor happily of the spirit, for I would loathe a god who could give place to such proud inner boastings as thou must oft indulge in. I am what I am. Disappointed that I must rank below thine own exalted self, made doubly unhappy because thou hast taken up thy privilege of exchange and barter in this free Assyrian city to make thyself rich in thine own right — for what could I do, with less talent and no wealth in hand to begin such enterprise to cope with all your many advantages? O, I know that thou art writhing in thy seat, my fair princess, but thou hast brought this on thyself with thus coming to give to me thy wondrous pity and advice. So drink it in, no matter if it burn like molten wax— for unlike wax, 'twill sear its way across thy heart and make thee forever doubtful of thyself, and of thine own supernal wisdom. And that will please me well."

The princess Sarai rose, with a calm seemly dignity, and gathering her drapery about her, she began to glide out of the hall, without further speech. She was through. The serpent might sting, again and again but her own wounds were sufficient for her. Midway she was arrested. — "Knowest thou, my lady Sarai, that our kinsman Abram hath just returned from Salem? Ah, that hath caught thy wandering attention. He is here beneath this rooftree. He hath cut short his long thirty-year pilgrimage, and he enters this day upon his duties as Prince of Ur, or as vice-satrap of this palace. The king's foster son Mardon may not fancy his own humiliation, for Mardon hath a pretty spirit, but he must also give way to Abram, as his elder, as I must do to thee, my princess. And when Abram, who hath traveled far and wide, and who hath no doubt drunk deeply of the religion and culture of glorious Egypt, as well as the sleepy philosophies of Salem, when he knows of thine own narrow bigotry, he will join with father Terah and the prince Mardon to urge thee to shake off such groveling notions and ancient superstitions. Come, Princess, be ready to greet our kinsman Abram as he should be met."

The princess Sarai stood riveted to the spot.

Longing to hear more yet too proud to ask one single question, she did not turn her head, but after a moment, she glided swiftly away, beckoning Milcah and her maidens to follow her as she passed through the lattice work and across the wide courtyard. Alas, was the whole world upside down? Had she at last found herself alone in a world filled with men and women who despised such antiquated ideals as hers? Were her beliefs all wrong? Where had she failed to listen to the Good Spirit? What was her crime? What her weakness? She had felt this impending storm for a long time. She had seen the signs in the uplifted brows of those about her; she had noted a thousand secret eye-glances, whisperings, and half-heard words. Father Terah — it might all be true — she could not deny, much as she longed to do so. But at least she would hold her tongue nor permit herself one word of doubt or scorn against the kind and gracious old satrap. Was it for this she had labored to teach the children of the servants in her father's household? She had spent her days and nights in conscientious strivings to hold the simple truths of her fathers' close woven into the web and woof of their daily life about the palace. And how utterly she had failed. And Abram? He was even now within those walls. Well, she had no time to spend in speculation as to what her kingly kinsman thought upon these subjects, for all her own bright hopes and aims were tumbling about her ears, and she was desolate. Within, the lady Ischa reared herself craftily and paced up and down, up and down the long halls with impatient tread. She had held herself in check for months, although tempted almost beyond power of control, and now she waited only to know what stand her most coveted kinsman Abram would take in this distracted household. He was home — the mighty, mystic, nameless Prince Abram, the fair, the wise, the good — heralded in every court of the world as the philosopher without peer, the student without challenge. Abram, rich, titled, sought by princesses of every degree, handsome, powerful, magnetic — she would seek him out in the first hours of his return, and would try her every art (to be continued)

Current Topics.

STATE. The usual crop of recommendations and applications for new State bureaus, commissions and officers has come up to the legislators this season. More officers, more salaries, more taxes, with little necessity for any one, is a view which people generally take of the situation. Appointment of county assessors by a state board appointive in itself means taking away from the people, to a much more distant point than now, the means of safeguarding themselves against excessive assessments and taxes. The voters generally feel that they can choose these officers quite as wisely as can any state board which has a merely secondary responsibility to the electorate, and with much greater satisfaction to themselves.

With less snow in the mountains, until late in the winter season, than has been known in many years, considerable anxiety is expressed throughout the intermountain region regarding the water supply for the coming summer. The fact that this anxiety has ample foundation should be a suggestion for an early husbanding of the supply, and also for providing against emergencies in food necessities that follow drought.

Assessment of property at its "full cash value" is being urged upon the Utah legislators as a remedy for tax ills, and there is promised a reduction in tax levy to offset the apparent increase. Experience has shown that with the tax-gatherer anxious to "make a record" for big returns, the "full cash value" is invariably excessive, and the plea of reduced levy never has been worked into actual practice, because impracticable under the public demand for money which always exists. Idaho now manifests a revulsion against much recent legislation, the chief cause of this change being the excessive burdens which have come to the farmer and small home-owner through the application of the "full cash value" theory.

Inquiries are made why the "Mormon" communities, especially the Relief Society, do not combine in their particular localities with the various associations for international charity. The founder of the Relief Society, the Prophet Joseph Smith, instructed the local organizations that their "administrations should

CURRENT TOPICS.

151 be confined to the circle of their immediate acquaintance." As to any more extended action, the "Mormon" Church organization operates as a unit in such matters, as illustrated by its call upon all its ward, mission and branch organizations to observe January 24 as a day for special contributions for the needy of Europe; and the Church organization will see to it that these contributions reach their destination without loss to an expense account. U. S. Consul R. J. Thompson, now in Germany, having observed the young "Mormon" missionaries, in different parts of Europe, predicts that in a generation or two Utah will become the most highly civilized state in the American Union as a result of the clean, manly, purposeful energy shown by this type of young men, and those who are attracted to them, and thereby become contributions to the population and life of Utah as the best to be found in foreign lands. This prediction should be a forceful suggestion to the mothers of "Mormonism" not to falter in their duty of training their sons in the clean, manly, upright life which has called forth such encomium from an experienced and observant government official.

NATIONAL.

Dr. Charles Austin Beard, of Columbia College, New York, expresses the opinion that the American people are not fitted for self-government. He must concede that a large proportion of them at least feel capable of governing others to their own satisfaction, if not to the satisfaction of the governed portion of their fellow citizens. The big political parties in the United States bid fair to be reduced one-third in number before the next national election, since the Progressive party in various states is rapidly coalescing with the Republican party, under the name and leadership of the latter. The vital effect this will have in the selection of the next President of the United States gives to the movement its present chief interesting feature. Many promises have been made of a return of business prosperity throughout the country. The masses of the people are now awaiting with some anxiety, material evidence of the return of that much desired prosperity, before deciding in their own minds whether or not those leaders who make the promises are to be relied upon as trustworthy prognosticators. Let the prodigal Miss Prosperity make her appearance at the earliest moment possible.

152 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

The "ship purchase bill" before Congress means, in brief, the purchasing of a "flying fleet" to carry American products at lower rates than private shipping companies offer, until the European war ceases, and also money payments to those belligerents whose vessels may be interned in American ports; this to be done by the government direct. Such evidently temporary expedient, and the probable breach of neutrality which would follow the purchase of ships from one warring nation to the injury of another such nation, give the basis of the determined opposition to the scheme.

INTERNATIONAL.

With the greatest war in history raging; with each of the nations engaged able to put in the field practically double the number of fighting men now there; and with the opening of spring for more active operations in about sixty days, there appears a strong prospect of slaughter that will comprise its millions of victims before the carnage is ended. Then the pestilence which is sure to follow when the heat of summer comes on many a battlefield where lie the unburied and half-buried slain, and the famine already claiming its thousands of victims and scarcely yet inaugurated, all mark an era of devastation, destitution and depopulation, in Europe, such as never before has been contemplated. Truly it is a "beginning of sorrows" that is sufficient to appall the stoutest heart among humanitarians. It is interesting to note that while the Jews have been gathering to Palestine, in recent years, they are now leaving in great numbers to find refuge in Egypt, whence their forefathers were delivered, and where the child Jesus found temporary safety. With the bulk of Palestinian Jews in Egypt, under British protection, when the "times of the Gentiles" referred to by the Master shall have been fulfilled (which event seems now close at hand) their return to Palestine, and their unification there with other Jews from among the present warring nations, will be accomplished much more readily and under far more satisfactory conditions than appear to have been within reach under any other line of circumstances that have arisen since the dawn of the Christian era.

Home Gardening for Women.

The success of our gardening depends a great deal on the amount of brains used in the preparation therefor. Of course we must have climate, good seeds, proper soil conditions, cultivation; all are indispensable adjuncts to the successful production, either of flowers or vegetables.

We have received most encouraging reports from many stakes and wards, as to their success in applying the gardening methods outlined in last year's Bulletin lessons, and while we are only giving the lessons in a suggestive form this year, we do urge our sisters to try as far as practicable to use our suggestions. We will be pleased to record results mailed to us. In the study of plant life, and in the applying of our knowledge in a practical way, we are learning beautiful facts about our Heavenly Father and His wonderful creative powers. For after all, "Paul may plant and Apollos may water, but God giveth the increase."

Tools. Now is the time for you to look after the tools; see if the hoe is rusty and dull or without a handle; and see if your digging fork, rakes, spades, etc., are ready for the first bright sunny days of spring, when the fever for outdoor work tempts you to begin your work for spring gardening; for tools are too often not ready, and are in a scattered condition. Many idle hours are spent by the men folk during the winter months, when all implements used in gardening and farming could be repaired and made ready for use when needed. A sufficient equipment of garden tools is a factor in successful gardening, and having cheap, half-bent tools to work with is the poorest sort of economy. It pays to buy good implements and then to take good care of them.

Good Use for Old Boxes. Garden frames may be made from old fruit or cracker boxes. Those too deep should be cut in half, remove bottom, and cover the top of the box with a cloth, or make a frame suitable for holding a window pane of glass. These boxes are inexpensive, and serve as a cover for forcing a few early cucumbers, tomatoes, and pepper plants.

Early Plants for Use in Salads. By preparing a fine, light, sandy loam in pots or window boxes, placing them in warm, sunny windows, you will be able to have fresh pepper cress, parsley and small lettuce leaves in a few weeks, ready for use. Seeds should be sown and just lightly

154 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.

covered, kept moist, and have plenty of sunlight, a glass placed in the box or pot assists wonderfully in securing rapid growth.

Perennial Flowers. Possibly those not familiar with gardening will be more successful with the perennial flowers. A few choice kinds well cultivated, with good soil will repay you ten-fold, with almost everlasting blooming.

Note. — We recommend the Porter-Walton Mail Order House for seeds, flowers, and bulbs, 522, 536 South Third West Street, Salt Lake City, to our readers who are gardeners and lovers of flowers.

Genealogy.

IMPORTANCE OF INDIVIDUAL AND FAMILY HISTORIES.

The Prophet Joseph Smith made the following remarks in the 17th meeting of the Relief Society in Nauvoo. "President Joseph Smith said he had one remark to make respecting the baptism for the dead — to suffice for the time being until he has opportunity to discuss the subject to greater length — that is all persons baptized for the dead must have a recorder present, that he may be an eyewitness to testify of it. "It will be necessary in the grand council, that these things be testified of, let it be attended to from this time, for if there is any lack, it may be at the expense of our friends — they may not come forth, etc."

These words should burn themselves into our memories, so that they can never be effaced. They were spoken to the women of the Relief Society and we repeat to these women the solemn injunction there laid down. Let us be sure that we do not rise up on the morning of the resurrection and find that we have neglected our most important life's duty.

The person who is first awakened to the principle of salvation for the dead is necessarily concerned at once with the vital necessity of securing the records of his dead ancestors; but there are two reasons why such a person should begin with his own individual record. The first reason is that it is better to begin with the known and go back to the unknown. The second reason is that his records will be just as important to his descendants as his ancestors' records are to him. If you learn how to get out your own records, if you discover the form in which to group your own family and acquaint

GENEALOGY.

yourself with a system of numbering, of heirship, and relationship for your living family — as practiced by the Genealogical Society of Utah — you will be well prepared afterwards to take up the records of your kindred dead, and get them into similar shape. Your own dates and facts are so well known to yourself that you become careless about recording them. Many people have an exaggerated sense of modesty and feel that whatever pertains to themselves is of little consequence. On the contrary, everything that pertains to one individual — genealogically speaking— is just as important as everything that concerns every other individual. It is as important, for instance, that my grandchildren shall know the day, the month, and the year when I was born, as it is that I shall have those facts concerning my grandmother. The individual is an integral part of the family, and of the community; he is a link in the family chain, which, lacking him, would be impossible to fasten up. Many of the foolish Puritans who emigrated from England to America when this land was discovered, burned up their records in an excess of religious frenzy. What a tremendous loss to their American descendants. Each family chain might be said to be as strong as its weakest link. The family is made up of a group of individuals; therefore the family history should begin with the history of the individual who writes that history. Our next lesson will concern itself with a family form, in which to prepare this group. The family record book, which was prepared by Elder Duncan McAllister for the Genealogical Society, can be furnished by that Society for $1.25; or the Deseret News Book Store will furnish it for the same price. During this month, we suggest to the sisters that they secure every possible date concerning themselves, birth, marriage, baptism, removals from one town to another, birth dates of all children, marriage and death dates, and date of every ordinance received in the temples, and all appointments to office in the Relief Society, as well as every other interesting fact in the life of each of you who take this lesson. Have that ready for next month, when we will take up Family Group Forms.

Notes from the Field.

Mrs. Emily M. Shurtliff who recently died and who was for so long the President and beloved leader of the women of Ogden stake, received one of the most beautiful funerals, as a tribute from her fellow workers in Ogden, that has ever been given to a woman of this people. The funeral was held on Sunday, January 10, in the Ogden Tabernacle. The Tabernacle was crowded to the doors; the floral tributes were lavish and exquisitely beautiful; the music was indeed heavenly in sentiment and expression; remarks made by the various speakers were eloquent of the affection in which Sister Shurtliff was held by her fellow workers; and throughout all breathed the deep note of reverence and esteem for President Lewis W. Shurtliff who was the sorrowing husband left bereaved by this burial. Above all, the respect and reverence which had always been shown by Sister Shurtliff and her associates to her honored and revered husband and to the priesthood was dwelt upon by the speakers. President Joseph F. Smith, with a portion of his family, went up from Salt Lake City to the funeral, and was a speaker on this occasion. He was accompanied by Mrs. Sarah R. Smith and Mrs. Edna L. Smith; Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley and Mrs. Susa Young Gates were with this party, representing the General Board of the Relief Society. President Smith dwelt upon the salvation which is the promise of all who die as did this good woman — faithful to the last. President Smith expressed his sympathy for the family whose blood, he said, had been mingled with his, through marriage, and referring to the life of the deceased, as a faithful and true wife, a devoted mother and a faithful member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, he spoke along doctrinal lines. "The Gospel," he said, "was the power of God unto salvation and people come into the world subject to its laws." Continuing, the President declared that the laws of the Gospel were instituted before the earth was created and that they were revealed to the world in the present dispensation by the Prophet Joseph Smith. He also spoke of the mission of Jesus Christ, referring to baptism by immersion as having been instituted by him and that obedience to this law was necessary to salvation. The question of divine authority was also touched upon by President Smith and this authority, he said, could only be divine when used in righteousness.

"Man," he continued, "can take nothing from this world except what he has gained through divine truth or what has been given him by divine authority. No man is perfect, but the germ of perfection is in every person waiting to be developed." In conclusion, he gave a remarkable exposition of the meaning of the "Brotherhood of Man," saying that relationship must be gauged by the degree of virtue among men and that anyone who lived according to the laws of God would be more closely related to Him than one of his own children who had transgressed the law. The following speakers also dwelt upon the virtues of the deceased, and for President Shurtliff and the family: Elder W. L. Stewart, President Charles F. Middleton, President John Watson, Dr. Edward I. Rich, Susa Young Gates, David O. McKay. The musical numbers were beautiful and were as follows: First, "I Know that My Redeemer Lives," by Walter Stephens and the Ogden Tabernacle Choir; "O, My Father," by the choir. The choir also, with Mrs. Myrtle B. Higley as soloist, sang "One Sweetly, Solemn Thought" and "In the Time of Roses." As the mourners passed out of the church Organist Sam F. Whitaker played "The Death of Ase" from the "Peer Gynt" suite, by Grieg. Mrs. Belle Ross read a touching tribute in verse, to the honored dead, composed by Mrs. Martha Burton Cooley.

OUR HONORED DEAD.

The death of Sister Marinda Black of Grayson Ward, was deeply mourned by all her associates. Resolutions of respect and tributes to her memory were prepared by her loving associates. We join with spirit in honoring her memory.

RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE CONFERENCES.

The Relief Society will hold stake conferences this year during the months of May, June, and July, and November, in compliance with the plan outlined by the Correlation Committee, and approved by the authorities of the Church. The conferences in May, June, and July will be held in connection with the stake quarterly conferences, and will be for all stakes, except the following: Alpine, Box Elder, Cache, Davis, Ensign, Granite, Jordan, Bear River, Liberty, North Weber, Ogden, Pioneer, Salt Lake, Utah, Weber, and Nebo. These latter will be held in November. Further particulars will be furnished, as soon as all details are arranged.

EDITORIAL

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah.

Motto — Charity Never Faileth.

THE GENERAL BOARD

Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President  
Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor  
Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor  
Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary  
Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary  
Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer  
Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon  
Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas  
Miss Edna May Davis  
Dr. Romania B. Penrose  
Mrs. Alice Merrill Home  
Miss Sarah McLelland  
Mrs. Emily S. Richards  
Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings  
Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon  
Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth  
Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox  
Mrs. Janette A. Hyde  
Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beattie  
Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley  
Miss Sarah Eddington  
Mrs. Ida Dusenberry  
Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune  
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director  
Miss Edna Coray, Organist  

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Editor Susa Young Gates  
Business Manager Janette A. Hyde  
Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman  
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.  
Vol. II. MARCH, 1915. No. 3.

THE DIGNITY OF TOIL.

Recently there occurred in the morning hours in a store on the main street of this city, a most terrible murder. And the thoughtless daily press reporters spoke contemptuously of the victim as a "scrub-woman." This woman was a member of the Church in good standing, her husband being in the missionary field as an ambassador of Christ. The good wife was supporting herself and child, and assisting him with her humble toil. The epithet applied to her shocked every Latter-day Saint woman. There is no occasion for anyone to shrink from honest work of any kind. Nor should anyone fail to use proper and respectful terms to denote the various occupations in which people may engage. But, on the other hand, every American citizen resents opprobrious terms when applied to him or his occupation. This is especially true of the Latter-day Saints. Words are peculiarly elastic things. They are charged with a variety of meanings given to them by those who use them as daily symbols. A word that may originally have had a special meaning, may have that meaning modified and even changed entirely by popular usage. By this test, such terms as "servants" and "scrub-women" are insulting and humiliating. There are good and respectable terms to use which no one resents; anyone should be proud of the term "wage-earner," or "laborer," for all Saints should be laborers.

In the name of every woman in this Church, we protest against the term "scrub woman." The insult to "Mormon" women. We feel there is a need of sober consideration and a possible readjustment of our social views, when our newspapers can so far forget the proprieties as to speak thus of one of our number. We are all workers, laborers, toilers. Our martyred sister should be dignified with our loving tributes, rather than that her dear ones shall be doubly saddened by so gross an insult. We are proud of our sex, and of our standing in this Church, and we ask our press and our associates to treat us — the laboring women — with the respect we feel we deserve. Let no son willingly humiliate another man's mother. There are only sisters and laborers in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. There are no "scrub-women."

NOTES.

The following books can be obtained at Relief Society Headquarters:

Genealogical pencil note books. $ .10  
Genealogical Universal lesson books Salvation . . . .15  
Art Book 1.25  

Please write proper names of subscribers clearly and give full post office address. Many mistakes have occurred through the lack of care on the part of our kind friends who have sent us subscription lists to the Magazine. When mistakes do occur, report them at once to the Business Manager of the Relief Society Magazine, Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.

Guide Lessons.

Lesson I. Work and Business. First Week.  
Theology and Testimony. Second Week.  

Lesson II — Repentance.  
(a) The First Fruit of Faith.  
(b) A Gift from God.  
(c) The Spirit of God and the Holy Ghost.  
(d) Real Repentance.  
(e) Damnation no Part of the Gospel.  
(f) Sin, a Wilful Transgression of Law.  
(g) Condemnation Measured by Culpability.  
(h) Some Souls Incapable of Repentance.  

1. What is the result of a cognizance of sin?  
2. How can we obtain faith?  
3. Do you see any difference between the Holy Ghost and the Spirit of the Lord?  
4. What is real repentance?  
5. What is the "Mormon" idea of damnation?  
6. What can you say of sin?  
7. When we transgress a law, what is the result?  
8. How far are we to blame for our sins?  
9. When is a man unable to repent?

REPENTANCE.

The First Fruit of Faith. — The first fruit of faith is repentance. Repentance follows as naturally as kindness follows love, as obedience springs from reverence, as a desire to be congenial with, succeeds admiration for, one whose example is deemed worthy of emulation. God commands all men everywhere to repent. A desire to please Him and become acceptable in His sight, leads the soul of faith to repentance.

A Gift from God. — No repentance is possible, however, without the Spirit of the Lord, which "giveth light to every man that cometh into the world" (Doc. and Cov. 84:45-47). This is what makes repentance, no less than faith, a gift from God. When His Spirit ceases to strive with men, they no longer desire to repent, and are delivered over to the buffetings of Satan. They deliver themselves over to those buffetings. They make their choice between the spirit of good and the spirit of evil, both of which are in the world, influencing the spirit of man, and they receive their wages from the master whom they list to obey.

The Spirit of God and the Holy Ghost. — A distinction should be drawn between the Spirit "that enlighteneth every man," and the Holy Ghost, whose gifts are given to members of the Church of Christ. The former is an influence, proceeding from the Divine Presence; the latter a personage, one of the Godhead, concerning whom the Prophet Joseph says: "The Father has a body of flesh and bones, as tangible as man's; the Son also; but the Holy Ghost is a personage of Spirit. Were it not so the Holy Ghost could not dwell in us" (Doc. and Cov. 130:22). The Prophet says further upon this subject: "There is a difference between the Holy Ghost and the gift of the Holy Ghost. Cornelius received the Holy Ghost before he was baptized, which was the convincing power of God unto him of the truth of the Gospel, but he could not receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, until after he was baptized. Had he not taken this sign or ordinance upon him, the Holy Ghost which convinced him of the truth of God would have left him." — ("Joseph Smith's Teachings," p. 69.)

Real Repentance. — Repentance is not that superficial sorrow felt by a criminal when caught in the act of wrong-doing —

a sorrow not for sin, but for sin's detection, for being taken in transgression. Chagrin is not repentance. Mortification and shame, alone, bring no change of heart toward right living or right feeling. Repentance involves remorse; but even remorse is not all there is to repentance. In its highest meaning and fullest measure, repentance is equivalent to reformation — a resolve to "sin no more," backed up by conduct consistent with such a determination. "Repentance is a thing that cannot be trifled with every day. Daily transgression and daily repentance is not that which is pleasing in the sight of God" ("Joseph Smith's Teachings," p. 136). "By this ye may know if a man repenteth of his sins. Behold, he will confess them and forsake them" (Doc. and Cov. 58:43). This is a real, genuine repentance. All who truly repent can be forgiven. These, and these alone, are ready for the cleansing process — baptism for the remission of sins. Without repentance, there is no forgiveness, and consequently no remission of sins. Damnation No Part of the Gospel. — Damnation is no part of the Gospel. Damnation or condemnation is simply the sad alternative, the inevitable consequence of rejecting the means of 162 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. escape. When men hear the Gospel and refuse to obey it, they come under condemnation. This cannot be helped. God would save them, but they will not be saved. They are free agents, and they damn themselves. Says Joseph the Prophet: "When God offers knowledge or a gift to a man, and he refuses to receive it, he will be damned." Not because God wishes to damn him, but because damnation is inevitable when one rejects the offer of salvation. Sin, a Wilful Transgression of Law. — A man sins when he goes contrary to light and knowledge — that is, contrary to the light and knowledge that has come to him. One may blunder in ignorance, and suffer painful consequences; but one does not sin unless one knows better than to do the thing in which the sin consists. Condemnation Measured by Culpability. — They who refuse to repent will be damned; they damn themselves by that refusal. But damnation is not necessarily permanent, and like salvation or exaltation, it exists in degrees. The degree of condemnation is according to the measure of culpability in those condemned. Even the damned, who repent, can be saved. Some Souls Incapable of Repentance. — Some sinners cannot repent. Their sins are of such a heinous character as to preclude it. The spirit of repentance cannot lay hold upon them. Their conduct has so grieved it, that it is completely withdrawn. Consequently they cannot repent, and that is what makes their case hopeless. If they could repent, they could be forgiven; but not being able to repent, the pardoning power cannot reach them. There would be no unpardonable sin if all sinners were capable of repentance. Those who cannot repent, who have committed the sin unpardonable, are called sons of perdition. — (From "Gospel Themes.") Genealogy. First Week. Lesson III — Individual and Family Histories. 1. Begin your work of recording with known facts. 2. Write all your own data. Birth. Baptism. Marriage. Birth of each child. Death of any child. Endowment date. Official positions in Relief Society or other auxiliary organizations. GUIDE LESSONS. 163 3. Write same data about husband. 4. Write same data about children. 5. Write same data about parents. Note. — The Genealogical Society has prepared a living record book, which is on sale for $1.25. It is invaluable for the living family record. SAMPLE PAGE. Day Index Page NAME IN FULL: RESIDENCE Day DATE DATE IMPORTANT EVENTS ETC Mo. Yr. Mo. Important Events, Etc Yr. : Born at Blessed by Baptized by Confirmed by Schooling commenced at Graduated Ordained a by Ordained a by. Ordained a by Married to Married by at Endowed at Patriarchal Blessing by Mission to Returned from Mission. Migrated from to Avocation.. Height... Weight.. Chest Size... Color of Eyes Color of Hair General Condition of Health.. Specially Interested in.. .. 1 Home Ethics and Art. ETHICS. Lesson IV — Integrity. (a) The principle of whole-hearted uprightness in an individual is sometimes called integrity. (b) Dependableness — which may be named as one phase of integrity is of supreme importance in: 1. Business life. 2. Social activities. 3. Domestic relations. 4. Religious affairs. Carelessness in any and all these relations amounts at times to dishonesty. 164 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. To know that a person will keep his word, attend to a certain piece of work, and that he will not fail except for good and sufficient reasons, inspires one with confidence and trust in that person.

He may have other faults, few or many; but when he has integrity, his minor lapses can be forgiven. No mortal possesses perfect integrity. We can only climb slowly upwards to that perfect ideal. It is this striving which will mold and purify our characters.

QUESTIONS. How would you describe an upright man? What would our lives become if society as a whole lacked integrity? Why is integrity important in business? In social life? In our homes? In our religion? What is the difference between truthfulness and integrity? What do the Scriptures say of the upright man? II Sam. 22:26; Ps. 18:25; Prov. 11:3; 11:6; 11:20; Eccl. 7:29; Job 33:23; Prov. 14:2; Isa. 26:7, 10.

Note. A good dictionary should be used as a help in defining words and terms.

ART. "In my Father's house are many mansions" - words of Christ. ("Devotees and Their Shrine," pp. 20-32.) (a) Describe the architecture in the Valley in the early fifties. (b) What was Brigham Young's attitude and influence upon art? (c) Tell of the organization of the first art school in the West. Name its officers, directors and faculty. (d) Tell of the building of the great Tabernacle. How did it get its unique form? What were the attainments of the Folsoms? (e) Read "The Organ Builder." Describe the Tabernacle organ. What can you say of its musical tone? Compare it with other church organs you have heard. (f) Tell of the life work of Ralph Ramsey. Where was the mahogany obtained with which to build the organ? Describe Ramsey's carving on the great organ.

NOTICE Subscriptions to the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE will be taken for one, two, three, six months or a year. Payment in advance, p. W. Dunyon Co Joseph J. Daynes 502 Templeton Bldg. Professional Tuner and SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Voicer of the Piano Send to us for our catalog Worn Out Pianos rebuilt. Write for and free samples of prices of work to be done outside of Salt Lake City Approved Knitted Garment Material Phone, Was. 6577 We Sell Everything by Mail 38 D ST., SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

SALT LAKE CITY - UTAH The shoe store for the whole family and every pair of shoes a "Money Back" quality. SALT LAKE'S LARGEST AND FINEST SHOE STORE

Scrace's Bakery and Cafe Fresh Bread, Cakes and Pastry Daily Headquarters for Relief Society Visitors. A Good Place to Eat. E. L. SAUNDERS. Proprietor Phone Wasatch 1230 24 South Main Street

THE purpose at the Bank of UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK is at all times to render helpful service and make the handling of your banking business satisfactory and pleasant. UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK Your Account is Cordially Invited JOSEPH F. SMITH, Pres.

When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct Style, Excellence and Satisfaction Without THE The Thomas SATURDAY Studio NEWS Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St.

McCONAHAY'S Stock of Cameos said to be one of the largest shown in the country. We welcome the chance to show them to you. THE JEWELER 64 Main Street $1.00 to $300. Salt Lake City

W. N. Williams, Supt. R. N. Wilson, Asst. Supt. Clarissa S. Williams, Sec'y and Treas.

GUARANTEED FURNITURE AT LOWEST PRICES Our magnificent stock comprises goods from America's most representative lines and our prices are always reasonable Carpets, Rugs, Draperies, Linoleum, Ranges, Heaters, Go-Carts, Etc. Home Furnishings of all descriptions for CASH OR CREDIT FURNITURE CO-OP Next Door South of Z. C. M. I. CO.

BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah

THE HOME PIANO OF AMERICA Attractive in case design, beautiful in finish, pure and sweet, rich and full in tone, the Kohler & Campbell piano at once appeals to the most exacting musician. 1000 homes a month open their doors to receive one of these world-wide favorites. Let YOUR home open its doors for one this month. Daynes-Beebe Music Co "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH"

The master skill of our Famous Danish Butter Makers contributes much toward the general superiority of Jensen's Blanchard Butter and Jensen's Four-in-One Butter.

Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. School Shoes for Boys They keep the feet warm and dry save unnecessary suffering and doctor's expense.

"MOUNTAINEER" and "THE LEADER" Overalls Don't Rip, are Honestly Made.

Devotees and Supplies for Temple Their Shrines Uses Those who desire neat, attractive Art Book in use by and moderate-priced articles for rent or purchase, for use in the Relief Society the Temple, should apply to $1.25 Relief Society Headquarters, Post Paid Room 29, Bishop's Bldg.

EXCURSION EXCURSIONS' EAST DECEMBER 19 and 22, 1914 Following low round trip fares will prevail from Salt Lake City: Denver or Colorado Springs $22.50 Omaha or Kansas City 40.00 Memphis 59.85 Chicago 59.72 St. Paul or Minneapolis 53.86 Proportionately low rates from other points on the Oregon Short Line to the foregoing and many other points. See agents for particulars. CITY TICKET OFFICE HOTEL UTAH SALT LAKE CITY Burial Insurance in the Beneficial Life Insurance Company The women of the Relief Society have now the opportunity of securing a sufficient sum for proper burial by the payment of a small monthly amount. The moment you sign your policy your burial expenses are assured without burdening your children. Talk to us about this. Relief Society Headquarters or BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. HOME OFFICE: VERMONT BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters — and sons — to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah.