[Vol11 | October 1924 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Why There Should be More Influence of Women in our Legislatu]

Why There Should be More Influence of Women in our Legislature Dr. Hugh Woodward
Editorial—Woman's Sphere Broadens
The Associate Editor's Furlough
Law Enforcement in America
National Conference of Social Workers
Portrait of Mrs. Mabel Walker Willebrandt
Mrs. Mabel Walker Willebrandt Alice Louise Reynolds
Law and Order in Business Mrs. Mabel Walker Willebrandt
The American Prison Association Congress Katherine Palm
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman
The Widow's Girls Elizabeth Cannon Porter
Clara A. Fagergren
Guide Lessons for December

PUBLICATION INFORMATION

Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah

ADVERTISEMENTS

From head to foot at less than cost of a dress alone.

Bloomer or Chemise Blouse; Vest; Skirt.
Pair Lady Tiffany Full Fashioned Hose.
One Piece Dress, Blouse and Skirt. Like Cut.

ALL FIT FOR A QUEEN IN LUK-SHU-RI KNIT

Telephone or write for illustrated booklet to

LOUETTA BROWN
Templeton Bldg.
Salt Lake City, Utah

Mention Relief Society Magazine When Writing or Buying

Temple and Burial Clothes

Complete Suits For Men and Women
Variety of Grades and Prices
Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail—Telephone—Telegraph Orders
Open Daily, 9 a. m.—5 p. m.

General Board Relief Society
Bishop's Building
Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3286

KEELEY'S
ICE CREAM
CANDY
CAKE
PUNCHES
deliciously different

PHONE WAS. 3223

W. M. McCONAHAY
THE JEWELER
So. Main
Phone Was. 1821
Salt Lake City, Utah

When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine

Competent Office Help—Is always in demand. If you are bright, alert, and ambitious, you will find a business college training a wonderful investment. This is the best time of the year to begin. Write or call today.

L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE
Day and Evening
SALT LAKE CITY
All the Year

To Our Magazine Subscribers

We call your attention to the very high class firms who advertise in the Magazine, and ask, whenever possible, to give them your loyal support and patronage. Also kindly mention having read their advertisement in the Magazine. We hope by your assistance to prove our value as a medium through which to advertise.

Magazine Management

NEW GARMENTS

The "Temple Brand" Garments are handled only by your leading merchants. We make a Variety of Grades and Weights to meet every requirement, with strings and buttons, long or short sleeves and legs as you want them according to seasonable desires. Samples submitted on request.

For Ladies:
No. 1—Flat Weave Light $0.95
No. 2—Ribbed Weave Light $1.25
No. 15—Extra Quality Flat $1.45
No. 803—Extra Quality Ribbed $1.50
No. 825—Med. Weight Cotton $1.85
No. 800—Silk Stripe Med. $2.00
No. 850—Imp. Lisle $2.50

For Men:
No. 902—Ribbed Light Weight $1.25
No. 903—Ribbed Extra Quality $1.75
No. 925—Med. Light Weight $1.85
No. 975—Med. Heavy Weight $2.25
No. 990—Heavy Econ. Cotton $2.50
No. 9107—Wool & Cotton $4.00
No. 970—Silk & Wool & Cotton $4.50

To insure a good fit give bust measure, height, and weight, specify whether garments are for men or women, and state whether long sleeves ankle length or short sleeves three quarter legs are desired. Double Backs 25c extra. Garments marked 15c pair extra. We prepay postage to all parts of United States.

Oldest Knitting Company in Utah
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE
Main St., Salt Lake City

Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made
Kiddies' Allovers
DUTCH CUT

They are the famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki
Mothers—they are just what you need for the little tots—and the kiddies like them too

Fulfillment By Grace Ingles Frost. The promises. Of rejuvenate Spring, Have each in turn been loyally fulfilled; The foamy furrows that were erstwhile tilled Have yielded bounteous harvest from the seed That man had sown with care within their heart, To answer his necessity of need. Full well has Nature once more played her part, And hung rich hues of purple, red and gold, - In token of her triumph, everywhere. From mountain height and from the gleaming wold, The myriad voices of the vibrant air,. Have joined her as her resting time draws near _In one superb, divine magnificat, The swan song of her life unto the year. ELIZABETH CLARIDGE McCUNE THE 7 Relief Society Magazine Vol, XI - -.. =.:. OCTOBER, 1924... No. 10 Elizabeth Claridge McCune A CHARACTER SKETCH. By. Augusta W.. Grant. This tribute to my friend, this intimate portrayal of her character, is not my personal view alone, but in the building of it are combined the tributes called forth by the personal appeal her life has made to friends far and near, from the head of the Church down, and from her family. That her character was many-sided is shown by the responses made to the question, What to you was the outstanding characterie. ? of Sister McCune? These are some of the things contribute " er as to ne iiion and family. Her generosity. Her sincerity, whole-heartedness. Her humility. Her justice. The simplicity of her life. Her unselfishness, cheerfulness, optimism. Her self-sacrifice. Her industry and frugality. Her strength of character, independence. Her will to do the right. I. Undoubtedly the greatest thing in her life, that colored her whole existence, the thing that was life to her, was the gospel. There was no room in her soul for the slightest quiver of doubt as to its divinity and her ultimate destiny. She was loyal to her family, and especially for her husband did she always express the most devoted love and loyalty. Much can be said of her generosity in big things, as shown by one gift to the Church of her palatial home to be known as the McCune school of Music and Art; her support of missionaries 494 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in. The field; her numerous private charities and contributions, ? and last of all the bequest of $100.000 to the Church, to her rela-. Tives, and to her dear old-time friends. In all these things her husband's influence must be counted, as it was through his hearty co-operation and liberality that she was able to do so much. But there was seemingly a contradictory trait in her character that it was hard for some to understand, that was that they might call her unnecessarilyeconomizing, but always on herself, be it remembered.. _ She seemed to take absolutely no pleasure in arraying herself in jewels and fine rainment, of which she might have had an unlimited supply, but rather she inclined to the other extreme, and we saw her usually in the plainest and most unpretentious things. I think this may have been due in great measure to her innate delicacy of feeling in not wanting to outdo her friends and associates, most of whom were not so favored by fortune. Her husband has said that the greatest fault he could find with her was that she would not spend freely enough what he so lavishly bestowed upon her. Few husbands have this fault to complain of. 7 But the strenuous experiences, the rigid economy made necessary in her early pioneer life had so ingrained in her very being the principle of frugality that she could not tolerate the idea of spending for what she considered the extravagances of life. Although in later life her "lines were cast in pleasant places," while she had all the advantages of extensive travel and sojourn. In many lands, with the enjoyment of rare and beautiful things? she might have lived a life of idle luxury if she had so elected? but always her heart turned toward the homeland, to her Church and to her people. She loved the plain and common folk, the simple life; she loved to labor where the results would be for good, in the temple, among the people where she could minister as the humblest and most earnest Relief Society worker. It has been said that she was an artist and an architect. She did love to plan and build and furnish a home, and she had many opportunities of exercising her creative powers along this line, from the adobe house she assisted her father in building to the humble cottage her husband took her to first, and gradually to something more pretentious until the acme of elegance and beauty was attained in the mansion that is now a monument to her name. The McCune school of Music and Art is an appropriate name for this institution as it will foster not only music alone, but all the arts, and two beautiful and costly pieces of sculpture Why There Should be More Influence of Women in Our Legislature Dr. Hugh Woodward, Brigham Young Unversity Because of certain developments that have taken place in modern civilization, society is being deprived of a very important type of thinking and feeling which is and has been essential to the development of man. Somebody is being deprived of this. Influence not so much because it is the desire of anyone, but because of certain specific habits of mind which have been developed. The type of thinking in question is that which has been carried on largely by the women of the world?an interest in humanistic values as contrasted with property values. In the early part of the race, a natural division of labor grew up between men and women. The home was not very well organized, family conditions were not as stable as they were later on, the care of the offspring naturally fell upon the mothers, rather than upon the fathers. As fatherhood became a branch of motherhood, man concerned himself with protecting the home from invasion and other destroying influences. Later on, as society developed, man naturally became interested in property and in property rights, while the home was the institution primarily concerned with the welfare of the child. Woman became the guardian of these humanistic interests and man became the guardian of property and protective interests.. The child's education, its moral and religious teaching was cared for largely by the mother. She was concerned about its health, its play, its recreation, its food, etc. The man interested himself in lands, flocks herds and property rights. When governments were established they were established to take care of these property rights, and not the humanistic rights. Down until the beginning of our own democracy, no government interested itself in education, health, recreation, morals, or character. It has been estimated a number of times by the legal profession and other competent judges, that ninety-five per cent of all legislation in all governments, is for the protection or creation of property. The evil of this condition was not so evident as long as our homes were the centers of education, religious and moral training, and physical development; so long as our mothers were concerned wholly with these humanistic values. But modern civilization in all its complexity has changed this original and simple division of labor. The rise of the industrial system and the growth of the modern city have both tended to break up the unity of the original home. The extreme competition and strug- 498 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE gle for existence has made it necessary for the mother to become a wage earner to supplement the family budget. In fact, it has become so difficult to maintain standards of living set in this mass of population, that literally thousands of men have failed entirely to take on any responsibilty of the family life. Since there are about as many women as men, this means that at least an equal number of women must sustain their own life with an economic independence produced by their own ability. So chaotic has the family life become in our modern cities, that in millions of cases what family organizations do exist are failing to care properly for these humanistic values. Consequently the state has to take over many of the duties which were at one time taken care of in the homes. It has been compelled to concern itself with education of the child with proper recreational facilities; with the protection of the child from evil and destroying influences which would destroy the morals as well as the health. So evident are these changes to every one, that no one questions that one of the essential duties of the state is to take care of these very things, so the state has literally become the mother as well as the father and guardian of its citizens. But while the stake has assumed so many other responsibilities once cared for by the mothers of the race, the governments and legislative bodies continue to concern themselves with property and property rights. No one denies but that our legislature should spend much of their time caring for these humanistic values, but the same habit of mind that dominated the early legislative bodies in all governments, has continued to dominate the legislatures of our modern state. It is as true today as it was two hundred years ago, that men think in terms of protection of property and property ownership. Since woman has not been into these councils, as civilization has changed, there has been a great lack of interest in the human side of life. This is not because man would have it so; it is not because man is opposed to woman making the greatest contribution of which she is capable, but it is because of habits that dominate the action of both men and women. Even women, on election day, demonstrate the fixed habit of the past?they will vote for most any grade of man and turn down the most capable woman. Men, too, while they subscribe to the idea of the beneficial effects of women's influence in our legislative bodies, on election day cast their votes for men. Another set of habits which are even more detrimental than this habit of thinking that men only are capable of serving: in governmental affairs, is the habit which becomes evident after these legislatures meet. Practically every platform today has a number of its planks dealing with humanistic valu?es., They are values in which we are all interested and to which most everyone subscribes, but when the legislatures open, these problems are WOMEN IN OUR LEGISLATURE | 499 relegated to positions of less importance and are preceded by bills dealing with lands, mines, and various phases of industry. In fact property instead of humanistic values receive the attention of our legislators. As a result, our legislatures go on, one after another, thinking how much they would like to do along these lines, but doing what they have always done?considering first the rights of property, and leaving little time for these newer things for which the state has recently assumed responsibility. In every state in this union there are women who have demonstrated their ability to think and administer. If they were in our legislatures in sufficient number to get a reasonable hearing, their minds would go where they have always gone in the past?to the moral and physical health, to the education and development of the children of the state. A man who knows the situation very well said to the writer that "more than seventy-five per cent of all the social legislation that has gone on the books of Colorado was fostered by the organized influence of women." In fact, practically all the social legislation of the last twenty-five years has had behind it the hearts of the mothers of our nation. The child labor laws, the better hours of labor for women in industry, | the better baby laws, the better health and sanitation laws and campaigns, the movement for parks and play-grounds, the eternal demand for greater educational advantages, all have been strongly urged by our mothers who have always been interested in these things. It is not that we need less interest in our property legislation with which man so persistently concerns himself, but it is - that we need more social and humanistic legislation which woman is so thoroughly prepared by nature to foster. If we could overcome one persistent habit of mind, much would be done to solve this problem. The problem is that of electing to our legislatures, representatives all of one sex. These bodies should be divided into a reasonable balance by electing enough. Women to form centers of influnce sufficient to foster this type of legislation. We would make no less progress in our usual type of legislation, but would make infinitely more in matters of social legislation. Since the states are fast assuming the duties of fathers and mothers, as well as those of the protectors of its citizens, the feeling and thinking of our mothers must become a part of our law making bodies. Just a Woman By Elsie E. Barrett I know a woman, oh! So well, Just listen while this tale I tell, Of things she's done. She's not as cruel as it seems, But still her face with conquest beams: Of fear there's none! I've seen her do a lot of things That to my heart a sadness brings Beyond recall! I saw her strike a match?how rude! And then she struck an attitude: There was no stall! She beat some eggs, till they turned white, Then pounded meat, with all her might! Oh! It was sad. She whipped the cream till it was stiff And paddled butter cried, "O biff!" It was so mad! She scratched a letter, licked the stamps, Then squeezed a dollar, gave it cramps: The eagle yelled! She wasn't satisfied with that, So squeezed a lemon good and flat! ' She seemed compelled? To whip, to rap, to beat and mash, 'Till all were jumbled in a hash: Oh! What a rush! She scraped the skins from off the face Of new potatoes?with good grace: Her face aflush! And then she cut out all their eyes, As though she was a surgeon wise: The law she mocks! At last she was all out of breath, And sat her down as pale as death; To darn the socks! If we but knew? I said I knew this woman well, And this queer tale you've heard me tell Is nothing new! She does these things most every day, Without one single bit of pay; EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Motto?Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - +: - -_- President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - -_ = _ First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - -. += + = Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN -.- - | = _. General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey. Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs, Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Rosannah ?. Irvine Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Miss Alice Louise Reynolds Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Musie Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - ~ 2 os -. - - - Crarissa SmitH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - =r) - - - - - AxicE Louise REYNOLDS Business Manager - - - - - - - ? Jeanette A. Hype Assistant Manager - - < - - - -. - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. XI OCTOBER, 1924 ? No.