THE TOPIC OF THE DAY.

	The two great leading parties of the nation,
the Republicans and the Democrats, have each
met in a national convention at Chicago, on sep-
arate occasions, to place in nomination the name
of the man who should be decided upon as the
choice of the respective party to be elected to
the most important office in the gift of the peo-
ple of these United States. Delegates repre-
senting every State and Territory were present,
and some of them made silvery and eloquent
speeches, glorifying the American nation and
extolling the candidate of their choice. After a
great deal of eloquence and enthusiasm in favor
of several candidates had been expressed in the
ablest and best manner possible upon such a
momentous question, the Republicans succeed-
ed in placing in nomination James G. Blaine, of
Maine, President, the man whom Ingersoll des-

[Column 2]
ignated, "the white plumed knight" and John
A. Logan, of Illinois, Vice-President. These
two men are the men to be voted for by the Re-
publicans at the Presidential election in Novem-
ber. Mr. Blaine is probably as good a man and
as suitable to fill the Presidential chair, perhaps
more so, than any other; but his record in that
important office is yet unwritten. It is impos-
sible to tell what any man may do in new and
ntried fields.
	The Democrats have finally, after a great deal
of wavering, come to the conclusion that as Tild-
en refuses to allow his name to appear Grover
Cleveland, of New York, is the man next best
calculated to promote the advancement of the
country under democratic rule, and have there
fore placed him in nomination as President,
with Thomas A. Hendricks, of Indiana, as Vice-
President.
	And these nominations were made mid shouts
and cheers and ringing applause, waving of flags
and fans, swinging of hats, and tumultuous ex-
ultation. Ladies, it is said, manifested quite as
much enthusiasm as men, and contributed
largely to the waving and cheering. Soon the
Presidential campaign work will begin in good
earnest, and each party will exert itself to the
utmost to influence the votes that are to elect
one or the other of these eminent champions.
	The contest has scarcely begun, for each party
is equally anxious to win the day, and from now
until the November election no pains or means
will be spared in the effort for success.
	There is likely to be a pretty equal divisions
judging by appearances, for both candidates are
very popular men and have shown marked abil-
ity in the field of statesmanship, and are there-
fore justly entitled to distinctive favor with the
people. It very often happens, however, that
men who have figured conspicuously and mani-
fested unusal talent in high places have made
but a poor showing when actually holding the
reins of power. Human nature is weak and in-
vested with almost absolute control, as it were,
in elevated positions men have frequently yielded
to the love of display, or some over bearing
pride of place and forgotten the people whose
interests were entrusted largely to their care
and whom they have sworn to serve and whose
confidence exalted them to the office of trust
and gave them the opportunity to shine.
	America is unlike any other nation; and there
is therefore no positive criterion to judge by, but
empires and kingdoms, great and rich, have
dwindled into insignificance and lost the balance
of power when they neglected to do justice to
their subjects, and when America, the land of
liberty, oppresses her citizens and brings into
servile subjection a portion of its territory for
obeying the voice of conscience, no man can tell
what the direful result may be.
	The Presidential boom that has begun may
turn the tide of national affairs in a new direc-
tion, and men interested in the general good
may forget poor, insignificant Utah, and thus
the child who has only received scoffs and
sneers, and never been the recipient of favors,
may have an opportunity to recover from the
scathing blow inflicted by the passage of the
Edmunds bill, and ere another Congress shall
convene it is sincerely to be hoped the folly of
passing unconstitutional laws may become so
glaringly apparent that such measures may fall
of any substantial support in the halls of Con-
gress, where the banner of liberty waves before
the eyes of all the world.


[Column 1]
