A VISIT TO GRANTSVILLE.

	In company with Sisters E. R. S. Smith and
M. P. Young, I had the pleasure of visiting the
women's organizations of Tooele Stake, at
Grantsville.
	President Mrs. M. A. Hunter was, as usual,
full of kindness and love. In her company
Mrs. Young and myself attended a very large
and interesting meeting of the teachers of the
Relief Society, held at the residence of Mrs.
Wrathall, who gave us a whole-souled wel-
come, which made our visit exceedingly pleas-
ant.
	Next morning we went to the "Hall" to in-
spect the elegant and useful articles made by
the little hands of the members of the Primary
Association. To make mention of all the ar
ticles worthy of notice would be impossible
they were all a great credit to the little ones
Miss Eva Despain had babies' socks on view
she washed, carded, spun, colored and knit
them from lamb's wool. A number of little
girls made a handsome quilt, procured the wool
and calico, made the batts, patched and put
them together, quilted, bound and finished in
just as good work and taste as if done by their
mothers. Ornamental cardboard work by
Miss Lottie Hales, aged 12, and Miss Viola
Wooley, aged 8, was very beautiful. An al-
most unique antimacasser by Miss A. E. But-
ler, aged 10, and one by Alice A. Millward
gives quite a new idea of fancy work- I no-
ticed very pretty knit wool trimming by Viola
Despain, 12 years, as a very useful ornament
for skirts; also embroidered necktie and collar
by A. M. Wooley.
	I am almost puzzled what to say about the
whole affair, all were so well done and so cred-
itable, I will mention card baskets made of
spool cotton and cardboard, each medallion
forming a frame for a pretty picture, which
displayed excellent taste, and were very beauti-
ful. I will just mention a few names that de-
serve notice. A pretty bead basket by Minnie
Samuelson; Joan Judel a pair of wool pitchers;
a cushion in raised wool work by Sarah Rich;
other fancy work and useful articles by Viola
Clarke, A. Mc.Bride, M. J. Mc.Bride, H. E.
Andersen, P. Hale, A. L. Durfee, M. A. Wat
son, Gracie Hale, A. Judd, Katie and Hettie
Hale, were exceedingly well done as displaying
taste and industry. A little girl found some
glass goblets with the stands broken off; she
made the rough places smooth by rubbing on a
stone, then got colored wool and crocheted
handsome covers for them with tassels on the
bottom, put in clay and then planted ivy in one,
a pretty creeper in another, and they were then
used in lieu of hanging baskets, and make a
very pretty and handsome ornament for sitting
room or parlor.
	There was also a pretty good showing from
the little boys, but not as large as we would
have wished to have seen; there was a good,
bridle made by a boy 8 years of age, J. H.
Hale, real strong and well braided, also a set
of gardening implements by Franklin Han-
sen, aged 7, out of wood with his pocket knife,
consisting of shovel, spade, pick, ax, adze, mal-
let, fork, etc., and a good sample of early peas
by Chester Rydalch.
	There was a great variety of dresses, aprons
shirts, etc., made by hand and machine sew-
ing, that would have done credit to ladies
much older; indeed, all the work was surpris-


ng, considering all the manufacturers were un-
der 14 years of age.
	The contributions from the Young Ladies'
Mutual Improvement Association were very
fine and elegant; a vase of water lilies in wax,
also large bouquets of wax and wool flowers,
embroidered slippers, several specimens of hair
work, etc., etc., were all beautiful, of course; a
magnificent Japanese quilt and dozens of other
articles for use and ornament graced the walls
of the building, which were handsomely decor-
ated for the occasion.
	The whole fair was creditable to all who con-
tributed either time, talent or means.
	Our Relief Society, Young Ladies and Pri-
mary meetings were well attended. The mem-
bers of each seem willing and determined to
serve God and keep the counsels they receive
through the Priesthood from Him. President
Gowan attended all the assemblies and spoke as
being satisfied with the work the women were
doing in the different organizations.
	Bro. Gowan's Counselors, Bros. Andersen
and Lee, with many other brethren, addressed
the large congregation. We had a pleasant and
happy visit.							E. H.


