OUT IN THE COUNTRY.

	SATURDAY morning, June 28th, we left the
city by an early train for Evanston. Arriving
at Echo, we were joined by Prest. W. W. Cluff
and Sisters M. J. Atwood and Ruth Pack, who
accompanied us to our destination at Evanston,
where we met with the Relief Society in the af-
ternoon, Sister Mary Whittle presiding. We
were most hospitably entertained at the resi-
dence of Bro. and Sister Deloney.
	Sunday morning rode to Almy and met with
the Sunday School, heard the classes go through
their exercises and afterwards spoke to them a
few minutes by invitation of the Superinten-
dent, Bro. Adin Brown. The school was very
orderly and the children seemed to be intelli-
gent and appreciative. Evidently they have
had excellent discipline.
	The afternoon meeting was addressed by Pres.
W. W. Cluff; the sermon was a rather practical
one, but specially adapted to the circumstances
of the people.
	In the evening we mot with the Relief Socie-
ty, Mrs. Martha Woodhouse presiding. Re-
marks were made by the President, her Coun-
selors, Sisters Marian Russell, and Catherine
Beveridge, also Sisters Atwood and Pack, and
we occupied a short time. We then repaired to
the residence of Bro. and Sister Beveridge,
where we were warmly welcomed and remained
over night. Arrangements were made with the
Bishop, James Bowns, at his house, where we
dined Sunday after meeting, to organize a Pri-
mary, and on Monday morning, June 30, we
had the pleasure of organizing the Association
in Almy Ward. The meeting was opened by
singing, "Children, do you love each other?"
Prayer by Bro. James Hood. Singing, "Songs
of the heart." After instructions to the parents
as well as the children on the benefit of these
organizations and the good results to be obtained
from them, the following officers were unani
mously sustained:
	Mrs. Sarah Horsley, President; Mrs. Martha
Alston and Miss Maggie Russell, Counselors;
Miss Jemima Russell, Secretary; and Miss Jea-
nette Beveridge, Assistant Secretary; Master
Frank Burton, Treasurer. 40 children were
voted in and their names enrolled as members of
the Association.
	Sister Bruce drove us in her carriage to Evan-
ston, where we dined and then took the mid-
day train for Echo. At that place we had to
wait several hours for the Park City train, mean-
time resting at Sister Lucy Stevenson's,a charm-
ing country home, and such magnificent groves
with their shady nooks, and verdant meadows
in the background. It seemed altogether the
very place for one wearied with excitement,
noise and bustle to spend a few days in the heat
of the summer, and the hostess is one of the
most motherly and kind, with a soothing voice
and genial manners. Late in the afternoon we
took train for Coalville, where we had a very
interesting time with old friends.

[Column 2]
	Tuesday, at 2 o'clock p.m., we met with the
Relief Society in the meetimg house, Mrs. Sar-
ah Wilde presiding. The house was well filled;
Bishop Salmon and several other brethren were
in the audience. There were several sisters from
adjoining settlements who had come quite a
distance to attend.
	The principal subject of the local sisters was a
County Fair, which is being arranged for and
will be held at Coalville sometime early in Au-
gust. They have a vary able and efficient com-
mittee of ladies, Mrs. Aon Cluff, Mrs. Jessie
Boydeu, ard Mrs. Isabella Hodson, associated
with the presiding sisters of the Stake. The
sisters are making every exertion possible, mak-
ing articles, useful and ornamental, that will
sell to raise means to purchase the glass for the
Stake House. The Primary Associations seem
as much interested as the Relief Society or
Young Ladies'. It is certainly commendable in
these ladies to undertake such an affair, and
time is little doubt of its success, for whatever
these organizations have ever undertaken by
united effort they have gloriously achieved.


[Column 1]
