EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Perhaps a word from this far off corner of
Utah would not come amiss. We are having
most pleasant weather just now, all nature is
clothed in her beautiful verdant costume, the
effect of many recent rains that we have been
blessed with, for it is really a blessing, and we
all appreciate it as such. The health of the
saints is good, only a few colds to complain of.
Our Relief Society and Primary are doing
well, all alive and awake to their duties, and
are striving to keep the commandments of God
and the Word of Wisdom is observed general-
ly. We see clearly the signs of the times are
approaching that were talked of long ago, and
one feels to say, could it not be postponed a

[Column 2]
little longer, for we have dear friends who have
not had the privilege of hearing the sweet
sound of the Gospel. I so much wish they
could, but Father knows best, and I would say,
Thy will be done.
	I see our enemies are still at work; another
sister imprisoned for her religion here in this
free land of America; well, their cup will soon
be full to overflowing; they cannot go only so
far, just as far as the Lord will let them, and
no farther.
	I hope Mrs. Belva Lockwood will make a
visit to Utah and become acquainted with the
people she has so ably defended, she is a fine,
gifted lady; I spent an evening with her while
I was at Washington, I do not think her equal
can be found for intelligence, wisdom and wit,
she deserves the praise and prayers of the
saints.
	I must not be too lengthy, I wish to say a
few words about our reunion of the Johnson
family. The first of June each year we
celebrate, it being the day the Gospel was re-
ceived by the eldest son, Joel H. Johnson, be-
ing now 53 years since he was baptised into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints;
as the first came on Sunday, all met on Satur-
day and passed the day in boat-riding, swing-
ing, shooting at marks and plays of various
kinds, with the young folks; the elder ones
chatting, telling their experience, and attend-
ing their grandchildren, who are not a few.
Dinner was served at 3 p.m. when 22 were
seated. All our children and grandchildren
were not here, 20 being absent; all was pleas-
ant and jovial. Dinner over plays were re-
sumed until evening, then came songs and mu-
sic, which filled the air with sweet sounds until
a late hour. Sunday, June 1st, ushered in
beautiful and pleasant, with the prattle of the
little ones making us think that we were a
happy family and these the fruit of our poster-
ity, and ever praying the Lord to bless them,
that they may grow up useful men and wom-
en in His Kingdom. At 10 o'clock all went to
Sunday School, our little school house was well
filled. At 2 p.m. meeting was called, the
house was packed; the usual opening exercises.
Our eldest son, Bishop W. D. Johnson; gave
an excellent discourse, mostly to the young;
exhorted them to be obedient to those placed
in authority over them, and to prepare them-
selves for missions at home and abroad, and
lead useful, honest and truthful lives, and be-
come men and women of honor in the King-
dom of God. Others followed with similar re-
marks. The remainder of the day was spent
in singing and music by several members of
the family; dinner was served at half past four,
when 34 were seated to a bountiful repast,
their countenances lighted up with smiles,
while wit and humor, with an occasional
graphic story of the past experience of the el-
der ones, caused the little ones to laugh heart-
ily. There were present 64 of the Johnsons
and those connected with the family. The
young folks took a ramble over the mountains,
came back loaded with beautiful flowers, many
much prettier than those raised in our gardens,
the evening was spent in singing and music.
	Monday morning all repaired to their homes
at Randall, feeling satisfied with the joyful
event, hoping to meet again next year, and to
be joined by more of the family.
	Ever praying for the success of the EXPO-
NENT, which is always a welcome visitor to me
and mine.
		Your sister, in the Gospel,
