					LINES.

	Dedicated to Mrs. Emily S. Richards, on the occas-
sion of her resignation as First Counselor to the Presi-
dent of the Y. L, M. I. A. of the Weber Stake of Zion,
by Ruthinda E. Monch.

Think not the good that you have done,
The gentle deeds of mercy shown
	Shall all forgotten be.
No, no, dear sister, you will find
The footprints you have left behind
	Will stand eternally.

The sacred lessons you have giv'n;
Directing thoughts to God and heaven,
	Time never will erase;
For they are carved in memory here,
And their good fruits will yet appear
	As buds, your life to grace.

The widow and the motherless,
The sick, the cold, the fatherless,
	The weary and distressed,
That you have fed, and warmed, and clothed,
The aching hearts that you have soothed,
	And by your kindness blessed,

Will raise their prayers to God above
To shield you by His arm of love
	And guide you ever more
In paths of virtue, joy and peace;
In wisdom's ways your life ne'er cease,
	In gifts for you in store.

Their prayers will stand on record there
As pure as alabaster fair,
	A credit to your name.
And in due time they will shine forth
As priceless jewls of far more worth
	Than worldly pomp or fame.

Such deeds are gems of purest ray,
That ne'er grow dim nor pass away,
	Where they are kept for thee
As treasures in the bank above,
Secure and safe they're locked in love,
	And Father holds the key.

	After which Sister Minnie J. Snow, of Brig-
ham city, occupied the time. She took much
pleasure in laboring with the girls. We must
cultivate and control our feelings; we can with-
out much difficulty master our actions, but it re-
quires a greater effort to control our feelings.
The young people are the hope of Zion, and mo-
thers should instruct their daughters in the
principles of the Gospel.
	Sisters E. S. Richards and Josie R. West said
they had the kindest feelings towards all, and
expressed their thanks for the kindness shown
them while laboridg with the Central Board,
and prayed for the prosperity of the associations
everywhere.
	Sisters Shurtliff and Monch each made some
very well chosen remarks; exhorting those pres-
ent to live up to the instructions given.
	Sisters E. Y. Stanford and J. S. Richards fol-
lowed with much more good counsel to the
young, and advised them to live for the eternal
world, and not hold be fast to the perishable
things of this world.
	Prest. Shurtliff appreciated the good advice
that had been given, which, if lived up to

[Column 2]
will lead us to the presence of our Lord and Sa-
vior.
	Slater Smith advised a meeting to be held
once a month for the officers, that they might
counsel together and better prepare themselves
to preside over these associations.
	Prest. Herrick bore her testimony to the truth
of what had been said, when conference ad-
journed for three months, and closed by singing
"Come let ns anew our journey pursue." Clos-
ing prayer by Bro. L. F. Munch
				EMILY J. NEWMAN,
					Secretary pro. tem.


