THE MORAL LAW AND LIBERTY.

	I believe that that state or nation which in
its legislation conforms most strictly to the mor-
al law laid down by the Creator Himself will
be most blest and most prosperous. No
member of a Congress, no member of a legis-
lature of a state has a moral right to enact laws
in the teeth of the Divine law. We, as a peo-
ple, declare unto the world that the order of
plural marriage is a divine law, given unto this
generation for the exaltation and elevation of
the human family; that the Lord, the mighty
ruler of the heavens and earth, with His Son
Jesus Christ, came down from heaven and re-
vealed Himself unto Joseph Smith and con-
ferred upon him the Holy Priesthood, with the
power thereof to seal on earth and it should be
sealed in heaven, and to establish his King-
dom on the earth again for the last time, to
restore all the blessings that were enjoyed by
the saints in ancient times, and we bear testi-
mony that the power and gifts of the Holy
Ghost are enjoyed by those who obey the law
with an honest heart, that we know that these
things are true and that we are governed by,
the regulations and laws which governed the
people of God in ancient times. Then how
dare men enact laws in the teeth of the "di-
vine law;" it is more than a moral law, it is a
command of God, a divine law, that a holy and
pure seed maybe raised unto the Lord of Hosts.
He has said, "For if I will, saith the Lord of
Hosts, raise up seed unto me, I will command
my people." He has commanded His people,
and they have obeyed the law, and He will
protect His people in their obedience:
	It is true according to the Scriptures that
darkness covers the earth and gross darkness
the minds of the people, when men of talent
and sound judgment on other subjects should
be so blind to reason when they undertake to
solve the Mormon problem. How they can
confound the present state of immorality extant
upon the earth with the holy order of marriage
as instituted by our Heavenly Father, passes
all comprehension.
	Senator Brown says, "he can see no differ-
ence between our system of marriage and the
prostitution of the New England States." At
the same time he says, "Under the Mormon
system the husband is married to a plurality of
wives, he cohabits with them all as his wives,
and they are generally prolific of offspring.
According to the law of his church he believes
his offspring are legal and it is his duty to care
for and support them all alike. The mother of
each is regarded as his legal wife, and each of
the children as his son or daughter. The fam-
ily is sustained and kept together according to
the old patriarchal usage. The people are an
industrious, laborious people; they are a thrifty
people. No beggars or tramps are found in the
streets. Pauperism is but little known in the
Territory. What they call adultery or the co-
habitation by a Mormon husband with a wom-
an to whom he is not married, according to the
church rites, is regarded as a great crime; and
I believe it is generally admitted that prior to
the settlement of Gentiles among them neither
prostitution nor houses of ill-fame were known
to any extent in the Territory." And yet he
sees no difference between such a people and
the pictures he draws of the condition of the
States. According to his estimation, New
York has 12,000 prostitutes, thousands of ille-

[Column 2]
gitimate children are born without the protec
tion of a father, and in most instances both
mother and child are discarded and cast into
the streets to make a living as best they can,
and sink into destruction both body and soul;
while the man is retained in society, can vote,
hold office, and may dictate in the nation or
bear rule; and such men are sent out here to
play "Paul Pry," and invade the sacred
precincts of the home circle and drag women
before a jury to testify against their husbands,
their lawful protectors. Such men, and only
such, would stoop to drag young ladies from
their homes and immure them in prison for
having the moral courage to maintain the
right of free will, to refuse to answer questions
they have no right to ask, no woman can be
compelled to testify against her husband, and
I hope the Almighty Father will give our sis-
ters strength to maintain their integrity to the
rights of freedom, the right of free thought,
the right of conscience to worship God accord-
ing to our convictions of right, to keep sacred
the home tie, the confidence that exists between
husband and wife. It is the heighth of oppres-
sion to he compelled to submit to such inva-
sions of our inherent rights, and we protest
against it most emphatically.
	Every organized Territory should have the
right that the early Revolutionary Fathers
claimed of Great Britain and bled to obtain—
that is, of making its own laws and being rep-
resented in the general assembly as as a confeder
ate power, being represented by men of our
own choice, bona fide residents of the Terri-
tory, men that understand the circumstances
of the people, that have known the struggles
and hardships the people have endured to
make the territory what it is to-day. The Con-
gress of the United States has no business
with the domestic relations of Utah. The na-
tions of the earth stand and look aghast and
with wonder at the farce being enacted on the
American continent, an inquisition on foot to
compel loyal citizens to convict themselves of
crime.
	O Liberty! A sound once delightful to
every American ear! Now fallen and tram-
pled under foot, is it possible that such things
exist in this the nineteenth century, in the
once proud land of freedom, a land of enlight-
ened statesmen, of advanced education?  Is it
true that the sons and daughters of monarchy
can hold in derision and laugh to scorn the
boasted institutions of liberty that has caused the
best blood of the age to be spilt? Oh, cannot
the latent spark that still lingers in the hearts
of some be brought to bear to save the nation
from utter destruction? Yes. The Lord God
of heaven will come out of His hiding place
ere long, and destroy wickedness and rule in
the councils of men, to dispense equity and
justice to a down-trodden people, and save the
Constitution from shame and ruin, raise the
Flag of Liberty to its pristine beauty and glory
and vindicate a loyal people from the false
charge of treason.
					S. A. FULLMER.
	Orangeville, June 15th, 1884.


Minutes of the Ladies' Conference in Salt
Lake, Weber and Utah Stakes also several
other notices of ladies' meetings are laid over
for lack of space; however these notices will
appear in due course of time.


