HELEN AND VIRGINIA.

[Continued.]

And, as the outer sir's cool breath
Revives, restores the heated brain
Wearied amid gay fashion's throng,
	So, to Virginia's soul so tried
There came a hope, some glimpse to gain
	Of knowledge heretofore denied.

Alone, as when she knelt in prayer,
She sought the place. A few had met,
Some grave and earnest as herself,
	Some skeptical, that thinly wore
Guise of respect, and others yet
	Were curious idlers, nothing more.

Were men like these, in raiment so
Unclerical to worldly eyes,
Commissioned bearers of the plan
	The world had lost—e'en God's own word?
To the discerning came the prize
	Through e'en the simplest sentence heard.

As from their lips the lesson fell
Like sep'rate links of one great chain,
FAITH parted wide the folding veil,
	And eyes that had been blind saw clear;
REPENTANCE swept away the vain
	Props of the past and drew them near

BABTISMAL waters. Like a flood
The HOLY SPIRIT filled each frame
With living, leaping, certain joy;
	The testimony and the light
Still other, farther truths to claim
	From the eternal source of light.

"I will hedge up thy way." How plain
Her past life's pathway now appeared!
Henceforth, those trials recognized
	As guards forbidding her to stray
On either side, because endeared
	To memory with hope's bright ray.

Not the Virginia who went out,
Returned beneath her kinsman's roof,
And as antipathies are swift
	To recognize each, though undisguised,
They guessed the truth, and keen reproof
	Mingled with plans that they advised.

Swift, as though on infectious wings,
Her strange conversion spread abroad;
Her kindred, mortified, refused
	To meet or hear those who had led
Her steps on strange, uncertain ground,
	A sect "of whom no good was said."

Anew Virginia turned to work,
Hope lighted now the passing days,
For her a goal was e'en in view,
	And when the still, long evenings came
She joined where lesson, prayer and praise
	Brought all in one in His dear name.

"The resurrection and the life,"
And the "baptism for the dead,"
Brought her a sense of joy and peace
	Her life before had ever missed;
And dreaming o'er the dear boy, dead,
	Again, in faith, his face she kissed.

Yet ever shadows follow light,
'Round ev'ry life since life began,
And oft it pained, surprised her, that
	Meeting old friends of former days
Approaching, just discern her, then
	Swiftly veer off the other way.

Perhaps you've met the same yourself;
Ah, well, Virginia knew the cost—
To bear an ill name for His sake,
	And yet, there came to her at last
A peril that she dared, and crossed—
	The torrent that before her passed.

*		*		*		*		*

For many days his watchful eyes
Had scanned her face, and studied well
Her loneliness and loss of friends;
	He knew the stigma on her name,
"A Mormon girl." Nought else to tell
	Against, the whiteness of her fame.

"Virginia, you've no need to work
In this slave fashion day by day,

[Column 2]
Your fingers are too dainty fine,
	Your face is far too gently fair
To bend from sight in such a way,
	And richer robes this form might wear.

"Give me the keeping of your fate,
Trust me to shelter all your life;
Fate has been cruel to us both;
	Yours shall be only silken bands,
And though I cannot call you "wife,"
	I am the slave of your commands."

"Then leave me!" pale Virginia spake—
Is human love the curse of earth,
And must we meet it everywhere?	
	The lovely wither in its flame—
Denied to those who prize its worth,
	While daring lips profane its name.

"Virginia, listen to me, then
Refuse me if I fail to prove
You have no other friend but me;
	I can uproot the ties you hold
In ev'ry path where you may move,
	For I have name, and power, and gold."

"And I am more than these, to you,
And I deny the gift you crave.
I have another Friend, nor fear
	Your name and power, and spurn your gold—
Your bands lead to the charnel grave,
	Your touch a serpents, poison, cold!"

"You feign to scorn divided claims
Of man's strong love, and yet you'll bind
Your fate in an impostor's snare;
	In temples cold, in zealot's thrall—
Or here, in silken bower, you'll find
	'Tis love! 'tis nature! rules them all."

He looked through eyes all blurred with sin,
But she, amid these murky scenes,
Saw the clear truth shine bright, afar,
	And answered him all calmly, then:
"Sir, nature makes men libertines,
	But wisdom makes them noblemen."

"Now, little saint, come ponder well;
The empty world and this bright nest
Lie in the scales. Make me your foe
	And soon, your futile pride o'erthrown,
And denied shelter, friendship, rest,
	Return at last to be my own.

" 'For might makes right,' and he who dares
Is he who wins; 'tis just this way;
Woman was made for man, the world
	Is full, and I will have my share;
Perhaps as gift, perhaps as prey—
	Small difference so the prize be fair.

"Look you abroad. The fields are full
Of human flowers, men pluck their choice.
If I do not, another will.
	If I elect where you shall bloom
Then who shall answer to the voice
	Within your gilded cage, my room?"

How many, 'neath such argument
Have felt their moral courage fail.
And when with mocking courtesy
	(So sure all seemed) he oped the door,
He little dreamed she would prevail
	And he would never meet her more.


[Column 1]
