THOUGHTS ON "HOMESPUN TALK."

	Utah is growing in her literature. The
steps she has taken in this direction, and the
rapid progress she has made in a very few
years is certainly remarkable. Many people
who are somewhat acquainted with the situa-
tion and doings of our Church wonder at the
amount of good, wholesome literature, suitably
adapted to the reading of both old and young,
which is circulated among our people, and the
influence this has in our social intercourse, and
the improvement it has made among us, es-
pecially in the young, can be seen even by a
careless observer.
	To keep up this intellectual flow it calls into
action many active brains, swift pens and care-
ful critics. The number of women writers
that are continually being added to the ranks
of those already in the literary field, would
be surprising to one who was not expecting to
see such an increase of genius in that line.
	A few years ago we had not the pleasure of
reading articles from the pens of the women of
Utah. Then only those who were most gifted
gave their sentiments to the public, but now
we see here, there are everwhere, women
writers who are grasping the pen, first timidly
and fearful, but gradually growing in confi-
dence and strength, till we find, in articles
written by them, sentiments worthy some of
the greatest writers in the land. We realize
that much of this has been brought about
through the influence and benefit of the Re-
lief Societies and Y. L. M. I. A's., which is one
of the methods of training instituted by our
Heavenly Father in our school of instruction
—but why should not the women of Utah be
able to write, and write glorious sentiments,
too? Are they not living under the voice and
influence of inspiration? Have they not the
Spirit of God within them to guide their
thoughts and expressions? And why should
they not be permitted to write? The time has
come when the Lord is not only willing that
their voice shall be heard in the land, but His
Spirit calls upon them to speak, and they feel
that they must do it. The testimony of the
truth which they have often borne to each

[Column 2]
other is burning within them and they feel
they must give it to the world. They cannot
go on missions, to be sure, and stand before
congregations of the world to bear this testi-
mony, but they can send their voice abroad
through the medium of the press. Whether
their words come to us as the glorious sun-
beams, brilliantly lighting everything with
their rays and dispelling the darkness, or as
the lightning flash, quick, decisive and sure,
every word penetrating to the marrow, or with
the cheery patter as of falling raindrops, or
whether, as best of all, they come like a holy
healing balm poured in upon our hearts, as if
dealt out by a generous, loving hand, lifting
the care and sorrow that has settled there, they
carry with them the same spirit of truth and
godlike purity, which is being and will be felt
by all the world, and they will not fail to leave
their influence upon it. Unlike those of the
world, the literary women of Utah do not
write solely for the novelty or fame they may
secure by it, nor for acquiring money, but they
write simply because they think it is right, and
God requires them to improve this talent as
well as all other talents which He has given
them, and because they are constrained to give
to the world the testimony of the truth that is
burning within them to be spoken, and as they
all drink from the same fountain of righteous-
ness their writings all savor of the same divine
truth; hence it follows that the literary woman
of our Church does not cast mud in the shape
of envious sneers and cutting sarcasms upon a
sister writer when she sees her sitting upon a
higher pedestal than she herself occupies, and
also is consequent the fact that there is no
wholly contrasting sentiments between these
writers, no strife, no severely contradictory
ideas, but all, each in her own way, expounds
the same doctrine and teaches the same truths.
These women are, of course, the same as all
other persons who attempt to give their views
for the public benefit, criticised most sharply,
and many times stingingly severe, by those
who have no aspirations to become literary
and cannot understand the motives that prompt
others to be so. There are some who still
cling to the old fogy idea that a woman must
not look beyond the cooking, churning, darn-
ing, ironing, etc., that belong to the catalogue
of house keeping attainments, if she does she
is out of her sphere.
	I've heard it said of a writer, "She does not
practice in her own life that that she points out
as good, and for the benefit of others." I've
heard the same said of a speaker who has en-
deavored, while standing before a congregation,
to give the words of life to the people, and I
felt sorry for the ignorance of those who said
it.
	Our actions in private life have, of course,
much to do with our influence abroad, but the
person is to be pitied who has the weakness to
allow such a spirit of unjust criticism to creep
into his heart to break the influence of the
good spirit that might reign there, and thus
cause him to turn a careless ear to the teach-
ings of God, because given through one whose
private life was not wholly in keeping with the
divine truths that the spirit of God prompted
him to teach to them. It is a pity that this
spirit of false prejudice and evil opinion so rife
in the world, and from which we, as a people,
have suffered so much, should find place
among us. Many people of the world have
refused to have the Gospel of Jesus Christ
taught to them because of what they had
heard and thought they knew of the lives of
the people who offered to teach it to them.
	We are glad to see that this spirit of false
prejudice is being dispelled from the minds of
the Latter-day Saints. The Gospel has loosen-
ed the yoke of error, and given birth to a
brighter light, and Zion's people are not slow
to avail themselves of the liberty it gives. But


to return to our subject, these missionaries of
the Gospel at home, who send their loving,
peaceful, and soul inspiring consolation to us
through their writings. Their words find their
way to the homes of those upon whose lives
the sunlight of Tennyson, Bryant and others
of their kind, has never shone, and carry with
them a testimony and influence that lightens
their hearts and strengthens their souls as no
uninspired words can do.
	Once, in conversation with a lady on the
subject of Utah's literature, she said, "You
may talk about the inspiration that directs
your people, but if there is aught of inspira-
tion with them your women possess their share
of it, as is shown in the beautiful poems which
some of them have written, many of which
carry with them a soul-awakening influence.
One of the principal ones that has attracted
my attention is that little poom by Mrs. E. R.
Snow, addressed to her Heavenly Father,
which seems to have more of inspiration in it
than anything I've heard from the few speakers
of your Church to whom I've listened. It
carried a conviction of its truth to my mind
from the time when I first heard it."
	And it is certainly a fact that the writings
of these women of Utah, which are dictated
by the voice of inspiration, will find their way
into the houses of many people, and their in-
fluence will find a place and leave their impres-
sions on the hearts that might otherwise re-
main in darkness with regard to the things of
light.
	The Lord has called upon all His children
to labor in the field of His harvest, and is not
this call made to the women as well as the men?
It certainly is. There is a work and a mighty
one depending upon the women in Zion. They
are working for the redemption of their race,
and the welfare of woman in the succeeding
generations depends on her faithfulness in ad-
hering to those holy and elevating principles
given to her through the Gospel of Christ, and
her labors must be strong and without ceasing.
In the language of one of our bretheren I
would say, "The great issue at stake in this bat-
tle between the mighty powers of truth and
error seems enough to animate the very
stones."
	Then how can woman, who is so actively
engaged in this great warfare for the right,
help feeling this animation when she sees that
her eternal welfare depends upon her conquer-
ing and overcoming the evil one. Then why
should she be mute when God calls upon her
through His Spirit to talk, teach, or write the
things of His Kingdom? Then shall she hesi-
tate to lift the pen when she feels there is need
of it because she has temporal duties to call
her attention, or because she is unlearned in
letters? No, no more than shall that Elder be
justified who allows the same things to prevent
him from giving a warning voice to the world
when he has the opportunity. And while the
women in Zion adhere to the principles of their
faith and live by the words of the Gospel, giv-
en through revelation, they will continue to
grow in strength and teach with power, and
their voice will be heard in the land in spite of
every effort of Satan to hinder them by false
prejudice, slander or vile reproaches.
									M.


