A PLEASANT GATHERING.

	Sister Emma Pike of Logan, Primary President of
the 5th Ward, received at her house, on Friday, the
20th, a very pleasant party in behalf of her mother,
Sister Barber, who is confined to the house through
sickness; she had reached the age of 75 years. Our noble
"mothers in Israel." Sisters Presendia L. Kimball and
Minerva W. Snow, wife of Apostle Erastus snow, came
to cheer and comfort her with their presence.
 When they were comfortably seated the sound of
fresh young joyous voices broke upon the car, singing
the Primary song, "In our lovely Deseret." Our Prim-
ary children had gathered at the house of Sister Liver-
more, and led by her came to greet Grandma Barber on
her birth-day. They brought many good things to eat,
besides some little gifts for her. A song was sung
then prayer by Sister Snow, and another song. Following
were recitations, songs and extempore congratulations
and addresses by our children who beautified by hap-
piness, looked like a bevy of angels.
 Sister Kimball then spoke to the company; first con-
gratulating Sister Barber on having lived three-quarters
of a century; poured out upon her comfort and blessings,
and prayed that when she had lived as long as life was
desirable she might fall asleep without suffering, as in
the arms of Jesus. Then addressing the children she
said intelligence adn purity shone in their faces, and
they looked bright and very lovely. Spoke of their fu-
ture, told them how many fields of labor were open for
both boys and girls. Instructed them how to become
worthy to fill higher duties as they advanced in life.
Spoke on the order and beauty of celestial marriage,
and bore testimony to its elevating influence. Urged
the necessity for constant prayer to keep them near to
our Father in heaven, and to be kept virtuous and pure
that they may continue to be beautiful.
 Sister Snow then said the presence of the Primary
children always melted her to tenderness. She said we
have our Primaries at St. George. I shall never forget
you and this interview. I have felt great pleasure in
listeing to your songs and the various exercises, and
shall, when I return home, tell our children about you.
We labor in the Temple of the Lor. In a little while
we who are older will pass away, and you young ladies
and little girls will be called to fill our places. Will
you all be prayerful and very obedient, gentle and kind
to your parents, to the aged loving and helpful, and
true and faithful always? The boys will also have to
fill high offices; they will be presidents, apostles, high
priests or seventies, and they will have to carry the
Gospel to the natiosn of the earth, therefore learn while
you are young to become good speakers. In your
Primaries you will secure your first lessons: be thank-
ful to our Heavenly Father for these opportunities and
improve them. Be puncual in attendance; be attentive
and teachable so you may become wise and noble.
Sister Snow bore her testimony to the principle of ce-
lestial marriage; said she had lived in it over forty years,
and would not sell her experience for anything , and told
the children to be very careful in speaking of it. Said
they would better understand its noble results when
they were older. These, and many other good things
were siad, and the pleasant meeting was dismissed with
prayer.
 Then the children sat down to a good suppre and
were afterward dismissed. The grown people took sup-
per, and were waited upon by the young ladies of our
Primary, and when we separated for the night we
thought it a pleasang end to a happy birth-day party.

