PART FIRST.

	Dear me; how it does snow! It has been
snowing or raining for the past three weeks;
there is no going out, for the roads are almost
as bottomless as the frightful pit that my pious
old grandma used to tell me I should go into
if I was not a good girl. There was some con-
solation in it being bottomless, for in my long
journey through it, I might perchance grasp at
some crevice and emerge into the land of
chance, that I used to read of; where I might
be changed into a beautiful bird at any min-
ute. As for carrying an umbrella—who ever
heard of that useful article being at home when
it was most needed?
	I am tired of work, so I will sit down and
read. There now, I am seated in my easy
chair before the fire! How comfortable! The
world is not so bad after all. I am so sleepy.
How curious those coals look. They are—
what fantastic shapes they take! Why—I
thought I was sitting in my easy chair watch-
ing the pretty pictures formed by the bright
coals, but I find myself climbing a mountain.
I am at its summit. What a pretty valley! The
sun is casting its first rays on the beautiful or-
chards and vineyards. I will walk down and
see who lives here and what the people are
like. The people must be very industrious, for
they are stirring already, and it is only five
o'clock. There is a group of children coming,
I suppose they are out taking the benefit of
this fine morning breeze.
	Good morning, young ladies. I see you are
out enjoying the morning air, which will keep
the roses on your cheeks. "The cool air is
very nice, ma'am, but we are going on to the
mountains to gather wild flowers. To-day our
Primary Conference meets; we are expecting
visitors, and wish some sweet flowers to deck
the stand." What do you learn at your Pri-
maries? "We are told to love the Lord and
keep His commandments; obey our parents,
and to be kind and courteous to every one.
Please excuse us now, for we want to gather our
posies before breakfast." Away they run, mak-
ing the hills echo with their merry laughter. I
see the people are not wealthy, but how neat
and clean everything looks. They are musical
for I have already heard several organs this
morning.
	This cool breeze gives me an appetite; I will
inquire of this young woman where I can find
a restaurant. "Excuse me, but will you be so
kind as to direct me to a restaurant?" "We
have none, madam." "Indeed, that is strange!
You have them in Salt Lake." "Oh, yes,
ma'am, and all the rest of the issues of outside
civilization, such as saloons, billiard rooms and
houses of ill-fame, introduced by the would-be-
reformers of our people. Although I have no-
thing against restaurants, they are very con-
venient for travelers." "How is a person to
get refreshments in a place like this?" "You
can go to the Bishop's, ma'am, or any of our
people will accommodate you, if they are able.
Good morning."
	This is what these Mormons call "outside
civilization," saloons, billiard rooms and houses
of ill-fame. This puts a new face on things.
I suppose I must fast this morning, for I am
determined to see further.
	Here is a pretty place, I suppose it must be
the Bishop's. There's a beautifhl lawn; frag-
rant flowers are dotted here and there, outlined
by shrubs and ferns of various hues and
shades, seeming to vie in their efforts for beau-
ty and colors their more refined and delicate
neighbors, the posies. In the centre of the

[Column 2]
lawn a fountain is sending forth its silvery
spray dancing in the sunbeams. Directly op-
posite the fountain, in the back ground, stands
a white cottage, moderate in its dimensions, and
having a neat, home-like appearance. The
beauteous rose, the sweet-scented honey suckle
and jessamine entwining themselves around the
windows and scattering their branches over a
miniature balcony illuminated by the refulgent
rays of the sun, forming a picture worthy of an
artist's pencil. I must enter this house and see
what these people are like. As I walk up the
clean gravelled walk leading from the gate to
the house, I wonder if the inmates in their char-
acter assimilate with their surroundings. I
open the door, pass through the hall to the par-
lor or sitting room. The floor is nicely cov-
ered with a green and red carpet; a few choice
scenic oil paintings and several portraits of cel-
ebrated men form a prominent feature of the
room. An organ stands open as if some one
had just left it. There is such a soft, musical
air in the room, that I fancy I can hear the
flute-like notes of the pretty warbler. There
is a library filled with histories and a choice se-
lection of other literature. I cast my eyes to
the portraits and—yes; they are the portraits of
the principal men of the Mormon Church. A
large table stands in the centre of the room,
covered with a cloth to match the carpet, well
supplied with the current literature of the day.
There is a cosy fire and an easy chair close
by, as if the master of the house had just left.
Pretty nick nacks here and there, of home pro-
duction, indicate the taste and economy of the
mistress of the house.
	The door leading to the dining room is part-
ly open; there the family are assembled for
breakfast. I will take a peep in. An exten-
sion table stands in the centre covered with a
snowy cloth and shining dishes. No tea or
coffee, but rich, new milk, and bright spark-
ling water. The bread is white and spongy,
and the butter looks as if made from buttercups
and daisies. There is also a dish of honey
glistening like amber in the sunlight. The
odor of those beefsteaks makes one feel ready
to accept an invitation to breakfast, but as I
am in cog. I cannot expect one. A handsome
man of forty sits with an open book in his
hand. Several children are there. They sit
very orderly, yet with bright, happy faces, as
if they were not afraid of pa. A tall, fine boy
of fifteen years, the counterpart of the gentle-
man, sits by the side of a fair girl of fourteen.
Between the young people and the smaller
children sit two good looking women. The
younger a blonde, and singularly like the
young girl; while the other, a brunette with
black eyes and raven locks, plainly told her
to be the mother of the eldest boy. These are
the wives of this man and the mother of these
children. See those love-lit eyes beaming on
their children, and from them to their hus-
band, not only a look of love, but of confi-
dence. The one man on earth to lead and
guide them through life. Are the women de-
graded slaves, and coerced by a task master?
Are they neglected and their heart strings torn
asunder by the infidelity of their husband? Do
they fear that some courtesan will be benefited
by his means and share his favors? Are these
children cruelly treated, neglected by their
parents, allowed to wander in the streets, to
drink, to smoke, to profane the name of Deity,
and to associate with the wicked and corrupt?
We shall see. Are they ill looking or de-
formed? Look at their sweet faces and comely
forms and answer. List ! for father reads: "If
they call the master of the house Beelzebub,
how much more shall they call them of his
household? If they have have persecuted me.
they will also persecute you. You see, my dear
children, our Lord was persecuted, He was
charged with being a wine-bibber and a friend
of publicans and sinners, and of casting out

[Column 3]
devils by the power of Beelzebub, the prince
of devils. If our Savior, the purest being that
ever lived, was persecuted and spoken evil of,
how can we expect any better treatment from
the world if we follow in His foststeps? Now
we will have a word of prayer." They all
kneel. Holy and Eternal Father. Thou who
dwellest in the heavens and holds the destiny
of men in Thy hands, we, a few of Thy child-
ren, bow before Thee this morning. We thank
Thee, Father, for life, for health, for the Gos-
pel that has been restored to men, for the rev-
elations of Thy Holy Spirit and for the assur-
ance that we are Thy children. Forgive us of
our sins, we beseech Thee. Holy Father, we
ask Thee to bless us as a family, that peace
and unity may be in our midst; that we may
be kind and obliging to our friends and neigh-
bors. We ask Thee for charity, that we may
forgive each other, even as we hope to be for-
given by Thee. Preserve our children from
evil, that they may grow to be wise and virtu-
ous men and women. We humbly ask Thee,
Father, to bless Thy servants whom Thou hast
placed at the head of Thy Church. Give un-
to them great wisdom aud understanding, that
they may direct and counsel Thy people in a
way that will be pleasing in Thy sight. Bless
our enemies if they will turn from the error of
their ways and serve Thee; if they will not, let
them be caught in the snares they have set for
Thy people. Into Thy hands we commend
ourselves, our children, and our substance: do
with us as Thou wilt, and Thou shalt have the
glory, through Jesus Christ, Thy beloved Son.
Amen. Now for breakfast, take your seats,
children. Eliza, pass your plate for a piece of
this juicy steak. Katie, I think your bread
good enough for a member of Congress." Ka-
tie, the younger wife, looks up with a flash of
her bright blue eye. "Do not talk to me of the
members of Congress, Edward, I am perfectly
disgusted with them." "Now, Katie, do not be
too hard on them; pass your plate for this
steak, it will give you more charity for the ben-
efactors of our country." Said Eliza, the eld-
er, "Benefactors of our country! I like that,
Edward, only I fail to see the point. I am
just as indignant as Katie. Just think
of placing the business and property of our
church in the hands of fourteen trustees, chos-
en from the ranks of our enemies: It is per-
fectly absurd. Mr. Hoar must be a fit subject
for an insane asylum." I noticed that the two
elder children listened very attentively to the
conversation.

To be Continued.


We received a very pleasant call the other
day from two of Whittier’s cousins, inmates of
the same home at Oak Knoll. They were very
pleasant ladies, genial in conversation and well
pleased with the city. They remained over
Sunday and attended service in the taberna-
cle.
	Mrs. Helen Hunt Jackson, of Colorado
Springs, the famous "H. H." of the Century
Magazine and the New York Independent, and
the author of several excellent books, we very
much regret has had the misfortune to break
her ankle recently; we were in hopes of having
her soon here in Salt Lake again.

	In Bishop Simpson, woman suffrage loses a
firm and consistent friend. Only a few
months before his death, he wrote: "I have for
more than thirty years believed that the great
interests of morality imperatively require that
the ballot should be placed in the hands of
woman. I have no doubt that the coming
years will see the triumph of your cause, and
that our higher civilization and morality will
rejoice in the work which enlightened woman
will accomplish."


