INTERESTING CONFERENCE.

	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Y. L. M. I. A. of Weber Stake of Zion, held in
the tabernacle, Saturday, June 21st, 1884, Sister
S. Herrick presiding. Opened by singing, "We
thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet;" Prayer of-
fered by Prest. L. W. Shurtliff; Singing, "Hail
to the brightness of Zion's glad morning;" after
which the minutes of the previous Conference
were read and accepted.
	Prest. S. Herrick then made a few very ap-
propriate remarks, in which she expressed her
thankfulness for the many blessings we enjoy.
She closed her remarks by invoking the Spirit of
the Lord to rest upon all during the Confer-
ence.
	Sister Stanford reported the Third Ward Ass.
Sister M. A. Riley reported the Second Ward,
Sister E. N. Hill reported the First Ward.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith next addressed the
congregation. She exhorted the young ladies to
improve in temporal things as well as in spirit-
ual things. Recommended the study of gov-
ernment and to become acquainted with the pol-
itics of other nations. "The young ladies have
lain the proper foundation, and it is my desire
that they continue in well doing. Each lady
has an important part to act, and has to form
her own character and make herself just what
she wishes to be; by yielding to the influence
from above or the one from beneath; by listen-
ing to the promptings of the Holy Spirit, our
names will be held in loving remembrance, but
if they take the contrary course they die and
are forgotten. I entreat of you young women
to seek for your husbands men of God, men who
are worthy of you, men who will sacrifice all to
do their duty, that you may raise up a right-
eous posterity that will become mighty and that
will know God in their youth. Woman is to
hold a higher and a nobler position than ever
held by her before, and she requires a noble
husband--not one that is inferior to her." Gave
many more valuable instructions and closed by
beseeching God to bless the youth of Zion; that
they may become as precious stones and shine
brilliantly in the courts of God.
	Bro. Thos. Wallace endorsed the remarks of
the previous speakers, and gave much good in-
struction urged the young to seek for knowl-
edge.
	Meeting adjourned till 2 p.m.; Singing; Bene-
diction by Bishop Thos. Wallace.
	Afternoon. After the usual opening exercises
Sister Smith said there was some business to be

[Column 2]
transacted, which she would attend to. Sister
Emily S. Richards and Josephine R. West of-
fered their resignations as Counselors to Prest.
Sarah Herrick, therefore creating two vacancies,
which were filled by Sister R. E. Monch being
chosen as First Counselor, and Sister E. Y.
Stanford as Second Counselor. This nomination
was unanimously sustained. The Secretary
read the resignation of Sister Josephine R.
West:

OGDEN CITY, June 21st, 1884.

To the President and Members of the Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Associations of
the Weber Stake of Zion.
	Dear Sisters, owing to the many increasing
and anxious duties which devolve upon me as
Presiden of the Primary Associations of the
Weber Stake, which are now twenty-one in
number, I feel it my duty to tender to you my
resignation of the office of Second Counselor to
your President, Sister Sarah Herrick. I have
been sensible for some time past that with the
multiplied cares of home and the increasing
labors and responsibilities of the Primaries, I
have been quite unable to bestow that service
and consideration upon the duties of this posi-
tion that the great and growing cause of the Im-
provement Associations demanded.
	I am quite confident that another can be
found who, by reason of greater leisure and su-
perior ability than that possessed by me, can
render more efficient service and better promote
the welfare of the Societies than I have done in
the past or am capable of doing in the future.
	I shall ever pray that your efforts in the good
work may be attended with the blessings of our
Heavenly Father and the teachings of His Holy
Spirit. I am still your sister in the love of the
Gospel.

