RICHARDS.

	Whereas, It becomes our duty to part with
and accept the resignation of our esteemed
friend, Mrs. Emily S. Richards, as First Coun-
lor to the President of the Y. L. M. I. A. of the
Weber Stake of Zion, which position she so long
held and so faithfully filled, thereby winning
the confidence of, those over whom she presid-
ed, as well as her co-laborers in this cause; and
	Whereas, There can be nothing more beauti-
ful than the love and union which she ever cher-
ished among the daughters of Zion, establishing
thereby pure friendship, we feel that her re-
tirement from office presents a suitable oppor-
tunity for expressing the esteem in which we
hold her; therefore,
	Resolved, That we tender our sister our heart
felt thanks for the zeal she ever manifested in
the discharge of her duties; the wise counsel,
through the aid of our Heavenly Father, she
was ever enabled to impart; the charity she has
shown to the poor by freely administering to
their wants the things which heaven so gra-
ciously bestowed upon her. And although we
regret the necessity which occasions her retire-
ment from office,
	We feel that her field of usefulness, in her
new home, will yet become larger, strengthened
by the experience thus gained, and her desires
to foster and nourish mutual improvement will


[Column 1]
increase until her labors on this earth are ended,
and she can indeed exclaim, "I have fought a
good fight; I have finished my course; I have
kept the faith: henceforth there is laid up for me
a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the
righteous judge, shall give me at that day."
	We, therefore, invoke the blessings of God
upon her and her household, and pray that the
same kind spirit may ever guide her in her new
home that so kindly hovered over her here.
	Resolved, That the above resolutions be pub-
lished in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and that a
copy of the same be presented to Mrs. Rich-
ards.
				SARAH A. HERRICK,
				MARY A. RILEY,
				ELIZABETH Y. RICHARDS,
				RUTHINDA A. MONCH.
