EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MISS BELLE E. ANDERSON, of this city, re-
turned from the East June 26, a graduate from
Ann Arbor in the medical profession. She has

[Column 2]
been diligently pursuing this study there for
three years, and having had excellent opportu-
nities under the training and tuition of her fa-
ther previously, it is to be presumed that she
commences practice with a thorough knowledge
of her work, lacking only practical experience,
which she will gain in the profession. Her abil-
ity can scarcely be questioned for she is a young
woman of superior attainments, and loves the
work she has voluntarily chosen. Her father’s
popularity as a physician and surgeon of many
years standing, no doubt will give the young
lady prestige, while her own beautiful face, her
splendid physique and courteous manner are
points not to be overlooked in one who visits the
sick room to alleviate suffering and minister to
the distressed. We welcome Miss Anderson
home, and bespeak for her a wide field of useful-
ness in her professional career.
	Utah may well be proud of her women phys-
icians, these earnest, faithful workers deserve
the patronage of the people. Once it was con-
sidered unwomanly to practice medicine, and
so men were called to attend delicate, feeble
women, under any and all circumstances; but
how much more fitting it seems for women to
nurse and treat their own sex in the time of sor-
est need or in the most painful extremity.

	ELDER JOHN Q. CANNON, who has been ab-
sent on a mission to Europe nearly three years,
returned on the 24th of June, accompanied by
his wife, Annie W. Cannon, whose letters of
travel have been published in the EXPONENT,
and have been very interesting, as we have
had abundant evidence from our readers. Both
Bro. and Sister Cannon are pleased to return
home, they have had a pleasant journey and ar-
rived in health and safety. A party of relatives
and friends in a special car met them in Ogden,
and there was a warm greeting and happy meet-
ing. Bro. Cannon has resumed the journalistic
labors on the Deseret News, in which he was
engaged before going on his mission, and when
Sister Cannon is rested after the fatigue of trav-
eling she will continue to favor us with reminis-
cences of her journeyings abroad. She was
much pleased with the Swiss and German sis-
ters, and very anxious to have them gather out
and come to Zion, that they may share in the
privileges and blessings that are so freely given
to the saints in this land.

	ON Saturday, July 12th, at 12 a.m., Dr. Ellis
B. Shipp’s class underwent their final examina-
tion before entering upon the practice of obstet-
rics. The examination was made by Doctors
Heber John Richards, Wm. Bowers and Mil-
ford B. Shipp. The names of the students were
Hannah Burnham and Mary C. Shipp, Draper,
Mary Swindle, Monroe, Esther Hunsaker, Hon-
eyville, A. J. Tippets, Cecelia Neilson, Caroline
Hanson, Lizzie Evans, Ellen Stark, Brigham
City, Caroline Ipson, Mantua, Hannah Ander-
son, Bear River City. The Doctors expressed
themselves well pleased with the way in which
the students acquitted themselves. Refresh-
ments, ice cream, fruit, etc., were afterwards
served to all. Some other ladies were invited
to be present and participate in the entertain-
ment. Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith, Dr. Maggie
C. Shipp and the Editor of the EXPONENT were
among the number. Dr. Shipp will commence
another class on the 10th of October, and will
be pleased to receive students, feeling, deeply
the necessity there is for more competent help
in this profession.

	NELLIE WHITE, the brave and fearless young
lady sent to the peni tentiary for contempt in
refusing to answer what she considered improp-
er questions, is now at liberty and for the time
allowed to remain with her mother and family.


The Grand Jury were discharged, Judge Hunt-
er removed and the court adjourned, and conse-
quently there was no excuse for keeping her any
longer in "durance vile." During her imprison-
ment she was not allowed the privileges that
Belle Harris had while she was there for the
same cause; viz.: contempt. Nellie White was
taken from home while engaged in teaching
school, and has lost her position, another lady
having taken her place, she is thrown out of
employment, her health is impaired and she
has no means at present of gaining a livelihood.
This is the noble revenge the courts take upon
innocent, unoffending young women to gratify a
whim and preserve the dignity of the law.


