LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in March) THE CHILD?STUDY COURSE LESSON 3 The Active Nature and Needs of Childhood. Based on chapter 3 of The Child: His Nature and His Needs. It will be recalled that in Lesson 1, we learned about the ways in which science is "bridging the gap" between what we know about child training and what we actually put into practice. The main point of emphasis there was, that teachers and parents alike must keep abreast the far-reaching changes now taking place in education. In lesson 2, we considered certain of the more important instincts and impulses which appear in childhood. We learned there that the proper guidance of these original tendencies is the chief responsibility of parents. In lesson 3, we are going to consider the active nature and needs of childhood and the way in which play satisfies those needs. A?THE HUMAN BEING IS BUILT OF ACTION (Pages 52-55) Did you ever hear parents say to their children: "Be still," "Can't you be quiet?" etc. To be "still" is one of the most difficult things for most normal children. Moreover, it is one of the most unnatural things to expect of a child, except during sleep or when intensely interested. Man is an active animal. He is built for action, mental and physical. His life is fulfilled in activity properly directed; it is thwarted by inactivity. The most striking characteristic of sick people generally, is their inactivity. This is true of the mentally diseased as well as of the physically ill. Contrary to popular opinion, which thinks of the insane as raving maniacs and their asylum as a "bedlam," the mentally diseased, taken as a class, are dangerously inactive. Their inactivity, as a matter of fact, is a symptom of their disease. Thus it is that a major form of treatment for insanity is occupational therapy, the underlying principle of which is activity. The meaning of this for child care and mental hygiene is clear. Unless already overactive or possessing a tendency in that direction, all children should be encouraged to physical and mental activity. The child who, without adequate cause, is mentally or physically inert, is in danger and in need of special guidance. 
 In the first part of chapter 3 of the text, the author describes the general laws of growth in young children, and summarizes the main items which are important for parents to remember. (The reference to left-handedness on page 52 is somewhat misleading. The author says: "*** dull children are more likely to be left-handed than bright children." This conclusion, we understand, is not fully established by science. The statement should, therefore, be interpreted with caution. The inference that all left-handed children are "dull" is certainly not justified by the facts.) Questions 1. Discuss (without using names or revealing identities) the cases of children known to you who are either (a) dangerously overactive, or (b) dangerously underactive. 2. What kinds of motor skill can parents expect of normal children at the ages of two, four, eight, twelve, etc.? 3. What is significant for parents in the fact that "all parts of the body, bones, muscles, limbs, trunk, and the various organs follow a law of growth of their own?" B.?THE FIVE FUNDAMENTALS OF PLAY (Pages 55-59) Childhood has one ultimate purpose: adulthood. All of the desires, the activities, and the behavior of the child converge on this objective. The long period of childhood is a period of preparation for adulthood, and play is the process by and through which adult behavior is learned. The child, to be sure, is not aware of this value which attaches to his play. To him, play is an end in itself; an activity engaged in for its own sake. The author has selected five play-needs of childhood: a place to play, time to play, playmates, equipment (toys, apparatus, etc.,) and intelligent suggestion. There is not much danger, at least in communities in which Relief Society work is organized, that children will have too little time to play and too little space to play in. There is need, however, in "Mormon" communities as elsewhere, to provide all children with wholesome playmates, and to give their play activities the intelligent guidance necessary. The natural tendency of children to resent supervision in their play, as in most other matters, is the cue for the application of a form of control which is indirect and which shall leave room for a maximum amount of self-government on the part of children themselves. Questions 1. What is the part played by toys in the development of the child? What, according to the author, are the rules which should govern one in the purchase of toys for one's children? Examine the toy department or the toy-catalog of any typical store carrying such merchandise, in the light of the principles laid down in this chapter. How might parents become influential in raising the standards of toy-merchandizing in your community? 2. Consider your own children and the children in your community from the standpoint of the five fundamentals of play discussed in this chapter. For instance, do your own children have too little or too much time for play? Are the play activities of children in your community "intelligently directed," etc.? C.?AGE AND SEX DIFFERENCES IN PLAY (Pages 61-67) Parents are sometimes perplexed by the fact that John's play interests at six are quite different from those of Mary when she was the same age. A careful reading of the text will convince the reader that it is natural for children of the opposite sex to have play interests which are widely dissimilar, and that this dissimilarity increases with age. The reason for this is obvious: adulthood makes totally different demands upon the sexes. That is to say, the qualities needed in manhood are quite different from those needed in womanhood, and vice versa. Hence the play interests of the two sexes will tend to differ. The principle which should guide the parent here is: encourage your child to that type of play which is normal for his (or her) age and sex. In the case of the so-called "tom-boy" or "sissy boy" everything should be done, within reason, to counteract this tendency and to cultivate those play interests which are appropriate to the child's sex. (Care should be taken, of course, not to confuse the masculine tendency amongst all adolescent girls today with the more or less rare personality type loosely called "tom-boy.") Questions 1. What are the five differences noted by the author between boys' play and girls' play? 2. At what ages does it seem wise to cultivate (a) individualism, (b) rivalry, and (c) team work, in children's play? D.?CHARACTER AND PERSONALITY DEVELOPMENT THROUGH PLAY (Pages 68-71) Equally important with physical development through play is the moral development which it makes possible. Such moral qualities as courage, honesty, sense of fair play, generosity, etc., are character traits of the utmost importance, all of which can be developed in some degree at least, by means of play. The child is imitative. He copies, more or less unconsciously, 
 the character and personality models he comes in contact with. Henry Churchill King puts the matter tersely in his book, Rational Living, when he states that: "Character is caught, not taught." Does it seem wise, therefore, to leave wholly undirected, the child's play life, his choice of playmates, and his use of leisure time? Questions 1. What are the educational values which the author maintains can be achieved through play? 2. What has been your observation regarding the relative influence of (a) playmates, (b) school teachers, (c) famous athletes, (d) movie stars, etc., upon the ideals and the character of your own and other children? Does it suggest the need for and the possibilities of an intelligent social control of commercialized leisure-time activity, on the one hand, and of character education, on the other? The main point in lesson 3: The normal, healthy child is active, physically and mentally. Much of his activity is play, and is an invaluable preparation for adulthood. Wise, parental guidance of the child's play life is a key to wholesome personality and strong character. A Beautiful Custom Copied from one of the Logan Newspapers Today at 2 p. m. Twenty-two bright and happy children of Salt Lake left for their homes after ten days vacation spent in Hyde Park, Benson and North Logan. On boarding the train each child was handed a box of delicacies packed by loving hands, to be enjoyed by them on the return trip. Very few people know of the beautiful custom that is being fostered and carried out by the Relief Societies; that of seeing that the orphans and children less fortunate have a summer vacation, who would not otherwise enjoy such a treat. The Cache stake Relief Society was responsible for the twenty-two children who came to Logan ten days ago, and to whom a great deal of credit is due, together with the big, generous hearted mothers of Hyde Park, Benson and North Logan, who royally entertained them in the country where everything is so beautiful at this season of the year. To these children it will be a happy remembrance; and to those who made it possible will come the joy and satisfaction of being able to serve others along with the pleasure of associating and becoming acquainted with little spirits less fortunate than themselves. "Go take to the lowly my blessing and peace, As I cared for the poor so do ye, And if you do good to the least among these Ye verily do it to me." Attend the school