[Vol45 | January 1958 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Mercy]
[Mercy Waters Peay Writes and Memorizes]
Iliercii   Vi/aters  [Peayi    Wyrites  and    1 1  iemorizes  LPoetry 
cheerful  outlook  on  life,  a  youthful  mind, 
and  much  wit  and  humor.  Her  motto  is: 
"WHiat  can't  be  cured  must  be  endured." 
In  the  late  hours  of  December  1951, 
she  lay  in  bed  listening  for  sounds  of  the 
ushering  in  of  the  New  Year.  These  lines 
came  to  her  mind: 
MERCY  W.  PEAY 
MERCY  Waters  Peay,  Provo,  Utah,  has 
written  many  lovely  poems,  repre- 
sentative of  her  life  and  her  ideals.  She 
recently  celebrated  her  ninety-third  birth- 
day, having  passed  through  many  troubles 
and    adversities,   but    she   has    retained    a 
Not  a  bell  was  rung. 
Not  a  song  was  sung. 
And  thoughts  were  very  few, 
When  the  old  year  just  passed  away 
And  in  came  fifty-two. 
If  we  pause  a  moment  just  to  think 
And  listen  to  the  tide, 
One  more  year  has  come  and  gone 
And  crossed  the  Great  Divide.  .  .  . 
Her  literary  compositions,  in  addition  to 
poetry,  include  a  charming  love  story  and 
many  fine  pieces  of  prose.  She  served  in 
Relief  Society  for  many  years  and  was  a 
beloved  visiting  teacher.  She  has  always 
subscribed  to  The  Relief  Society  Maga- 
zine. She  is  the  mother  of  ten  children, 
five  of  whom  are  still  living.  Her  grand- 
children number  nine,  and  her  great- 
grandchildren eighteen.  She  still  receives 
great  joy  by  bringing  sunshine  and  happi- 
ness into  the  lives  of  others. 
Wl 
inter 
Evelyn  Fjeldsted 
Like  a  shadow  winter  reaches  far. 
The  days  seem  only  half  awake; 
And  drifting  into  night  are  lost 
In  darkness  while  the  tempests  break. 
The  snow  rides  high  on  whistling  winds, 
To  destinations  still  unlcnown. 
Distance  calls  to  the  wheeling  gales 
To  fly  where  birds  have  never  flown. 
While  tunneling  through  winter's  length. 
The  earth  is  warm  beneath  the  frost; 
And  wildest  music  thunders  by — 
Melodies  forever  lost. 
Page  41