[Vol45 | January 1958 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Recipes | Author: Oscarson]
Page 38 RECIPES FROM SWEDEN 39 Filling for Omelet: 1 can of lobster or shrimps 2 thsp. Flour (6% or 7 oz. Can) 1% ¢c. Cream and lobster or shrimp stock 2 tbsp. Butter salt and pepper to taste Cube fish meat. Melt butter in pan, add flour, and stir until well blended. Add cream and stock gradually while stirring. Simmer ten minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove from heat, add fish meat, and season. Reheat quickly. Serve in omelet. SOCKERKAKSTARIA Mrp VANILJKRAM (Tart With Vanilla Cream Filling ) 4 eggs % ¢. Potato flour or % c. Sugar % ¢. Flour minus 2 tbsp. 1 tsp. Baking powder and add 2 tbsp. Vc. Flour cornstarch Sift flour with potato flour or cornstarch and baking powder. Beat cgg whites until stiff. Add sugar, egg yolks, and flour. Stir until well blended. Pour into well-buttered, deep round cake pan or iron frying pan and bake in moderate oven (350° I°.) for thirty minutes. Filling: 2 egg yolks 1 C. Cream 1% tbsp. Butter 1 tsp. Vanilla extract 4% tbsp. Potato flour or cornstarch 2 tbsp. Sugar Mix all ingredients, except vanilla extract, in double boiler and cook until smooth and thick, stirring constantly. Remove from heat, add vanilla extract and beat occasion. Ally until cold. When cold, cut cake into two or three layers. Spread cach layer with filling and cover top evenly with icing. Decorate with jam by making two and one-half inch squares on top and spreading jam in every other one. Mark squares with whipped cream forced through a paper tube. Icing: 1 c. Powdered sugar " tbsp. Lemon juice 17%, tbsp. Water Mix all ingredients of icing and stir until smooth. Invacp Sint (Pickled Salt Herring) 1 large salt herring Dressing: 4 c. White vinegar 2 tbsp. Chopped onion 2 tbsp. Water 6 white peppercorns, crushed "" C. Sugar 6 whole allspice, crushed Garnish: chopped onion, chives, or dill Clean fish, removing head, and soak overnight in cold water. Bone and fillet. Cnt in small slices, then slide spatula under slices and arrange like whole fish on glass plate. Mix ingredients for dressing and pour over fish. Garnish with chopped onion, chives, or dill, and leave two or three hours in refrigerator. Merey Waters Peay yoy and i amomaes Poetry ¥ Re mS ae ** gute ters" Ty ee eet?