[Vol45 | January 1958 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Three-Part | Author: Madsen]
[Three-Part Songs for Relief Society Singing Mothers Florence J. Madsen]

He then reminds Macbeth of the three witches' promise to them both, but ambiguously Macbeth lies that he never thinks on them, and they bid each other a cordial goodnight. 'Then Macbeth in turn speaks his "Ts this a dagger which I see before me" soliloquy which fully reveals his own inner ambiguity, since herein he questions whether the dagger with which he is soon to murder Duncan is dream or phantasy. 64 In Act II, scene 2, Shakespeare employs double meanings to contrast the conspirators' reactions now murder is done. Lady Macbeth is fearless, contemptuous of Macbeth's cringing; she regards Duncan's murder only as a practical necessity, whereas Macbeth is entirely aware of the deeper, more terrifying currents he has set in motion. Even as the murder is being accomplished she worries and gloats: Lady M. I laid their daggers ready, He could not miss 'em. Had he not resembled My father as he slept I had done 't. [Enter Macbeth.] My husband! I have done the deed. This is a sorry sight. [Looking on his hands.] Lady M. A foolish thought, to say a sorry sight. There's one did laugh in 's sleep, and one cried "Murder!" That they did wake each oth- @ One cried "God bless us!" and "Amen" the other, As they had seen me with these hangman's hands. Listening their fear, I could not say "Amen" When they did say "God bless us!"' Lady M. Consider it not so deeply. Macb. But wherefore could I not pronounce 'Amen'? I had most need of blessing, and "Amen" Stuck in my throat. Lady M. These deeds must thought After these ways. So, it will make us mad. Methought I heard a voice cry "Sleep no more! Macbeth does murder sleep" — the innocent sleep, Sleep that knits up the traveled sleave of care, Macb. Macb. Not be Macb. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 The death of each day's life, sore labor's bath, Balm of hurt minds, great nature's second course, Chief nourisher in life's feast— Lady M. What do you mean?... Who was it that thus cried? Why, worthy Thane, You do unbend your strength to think So brainsickly of things. Go get some water And wash this filthy witness from your hand. Why did you bring these daggers from the place? They must lie there. I'll go no more. I am afraid to think what I have done, Look on 't again I dare not. Lady M. Infirm of purpose! Give me the daggers. Sleeping and the dead Are but as pictures. "Tis the eye of childhood That fears a painted devil. [Knocking within.I Whence is that knocking? How is 't with me when every noise appals me? What hands are here? Ha! They pluck out mine eyes! Will all great Neptune's ocean wash this blood Clean from my hand? No, this my hand will rather The multitudinous seas incarnadine, Making the green one red. II. 2. 12ff. Noble ~ Macb. The Macb. Thus must we pity poor Lady Macbeth; even while we wonder at her courage and her supreme will. For her to think that murder could ever lie forgotten in one's memory, or become merely routine! But time, which has already begun its workings in the more perceptive Macbeth, eventually murders her own secret peace as it does his. Inevitably she comes to understand only too well Macbeth's words which LESSON DEPARTMENT earlier seemed to her cowardly gibberish. And was Macbeth a "moral coward"? Do his fears and seemingly ambiguous images prove him unable to face reality? Rather do they portray him the bravest of men, since he knew the moral consequences of murder before ever he murdered, while afterward to the very end he never refused to face all the impli- 65 cations of his accumulating crimes, but fought his own ev ils—hopelessly knowing them to be evil—until Macduff's sword delivered him from such sustained agony. Hero or villain? Nay, but both. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What is the great tragedy of this play? 2. What are some of the outstanding scenes? What makes them outstanding? Social wience — Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 13—Love—A Basic Ingredient Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, April 22, 1958 Objective: To show that love is essential for family happiness. Beloved, let us love one another: for love is of God; and every one that loveth is born of God, and knoweth God (I John 4:7). OVE. Is the finest of all human emotions. It is constantly before us, in our lives and in story and song, and while it is beautifully simple, it defies an easy definition. The warmth of love dispels fear. It is love from which come inspiration to accomplish, the will to seek a better way, and the strength to suffer erief and pain. 'The sanctuary of love is the heart where its sweetness is felt and the impulse to express is born. It is that feeling of strong personal attachment which exists among people. Its aspects include, but are not limited to fondness, respect, regard, admiration, affection, tenderness, sacrifice, sympathy, attachment, devotion, adoration, and understanding. 'The presence of love dwarfs disagreement. It impels men to die for their loved ones if need be. Its absence fills the heart with despair, hate, and error. It is an essential ingredient for happiness and for intellectual, emotional, and spiritual growth. It is the greatest of the three biblical virtues of faith, hope, and charity, the last of which is generally translated by modern scholars as "love." Mormon tegarded charity as "the pure love of Christ," and taught "whoso is found possessed of it at the last day, it shall be well with him" (Moroni 7:47). 'The best-known description of the aspects of love, or charity, is that recorded by Paul in his first Epistle to the Corinthians: Charity suffereth long, and is_ kind; charity envieth not; charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, 66 Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil; Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth; Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Charity never faileth... (I Cor. 13: 4-8). Love Begins at Home It is in the family setting where love springs forth and is expressed in its finest form. How and to what extent it develops depend largely upon the husband and wife, who establish the emotional tone of the home. A newborn child feels love, or its absence, first from his parents. As the child's personality develops, he discovers the necessity for love in every phase of his life. In the first weeks of life he develops a feeling of affection for those who care for him, who at that time represent the world about him. The type of care he receives is prompted by parental love. The feeling of the infant, obtained from his early experiences, remains with him for a considerable length of time. 'The importance of this early relationship-has influenced the development of lying-in hospttals and less-rigid feeding schedules for infants. 'This philosophy has also returned the rocking chair for the mutual efijoyment of mother and child. At about twelve to fifteen months age the child recognizes himself as an individual and from that time on he begins to learn about right and wrong and many other things. He often asserts himself in defiance, and it is the true love of the parent at this time which can convey security as freedoms and limitations are passed to him. As the child expresses his initiative, the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 wise bestowal of love by parents is most important so as not to stifle him. He is helped to avoid fear. "There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear " (I John 4:18). When a child is successful in an undertaking, he is encouraged to further accomplishment by the love and approval of parents. As he moves into adolescence, being alternately a child and adult, parental love needs to be strong in patience and guidance and should be shown skillfully. 'These qualities are also greatly needed through the period of making friends, and, gradually, relying less upon home and parents. The influence of love on the molding of feelings and attitudes continues through adulthood. 'Though the role of love may change as we mature, its constancy needs to be felt. If we have family members about us who are patient and understanding, who recognize our worth as individuals, who encourage us in our accomplishments, and who truly love us, the will to progress is strong, for we are happy. President Joseph F. Smith, during his lifetime, often said:... The love of a true mother comes nearer being like the love of God than any other kind of love (Gospel Doctrine, page 315). While this is no doubt true, mothers have no monopoly on love. It is received and expressed by family members at all ages.