[Vol45 | January 1958 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
[The Swedish Mission Preston R. Nibley]

If she stays, the woman thought, PIl give in. Even if Mrs. Trent wouldn't want me here, I''d soon be ready to beg for the chance to stay. But I'm not going to stay. I had a hard enough time breaking away, getting a chance to live my own life. She bent forward, her elbows on her knees, her hands pressed tight against her burning eyelids. Why was her heart torn with this anguish? Why couldn't she throw away her job, her painting, without ELIZABETH'S CHILDREN a thought—even of Brent Gibson's dismay at the news that he was losing his top artist? Or, failing that, why couldn't she turn her back on Elizabeth's children — carelessly, without worry? 'The tears squeezed through her lashes and wet her fingers. Oh, my dear, lost love! She thought. If only you had been spared — if only I had you and children of our own, then I would be at peace. She rose at last, slowly, wearily, and went into the living room. They all looked up at her as she came in, 29 and she thought she could feel the question in the air. "PII tell you all goodby now," she said quietly. "Tl be leaving before you're up in the morning." "Not before I'm up!" Fred said firmly. "I'm going to drive you to the airport." "Thanks, Fred." She went to her mother and kissed her. "Goodby, Mother. Ill be home for a week-end soon." And _ she went swiftly up the stairs before anyone could find the words to stop her. (To be continued ) She Mlarch of Dimes for 1958 Basil O'Connor President, the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis WIDESPREAD use of the Salk vaccine, made possible by March of Dimes funds, has already protected millions of Americans against the appalling paralysis of polio. But the polio fight is far from finished. Not only do large segments of the public still lack this protection, but there still remain 300,000 victims of past polio attacks, many of whom — children in particular — can be restored by modern medical science to lives of usefulness and _productivity. With victory in sight, we cannot walk off the battlefield and abandon the wounded. That is why our theme for this year's March of Dimes is "Survival Is Not Enough." Survival is not enough for these thousands and thousands of youngsters and adults desperately disabled by polio. And we know that survival is not enough for the millions of Americans whose bottomless wells of human sympathy and understanding will be called upon in the 1958 March of Dimes. And that is why we are appealing to you to help keep the old polio patient from being made invisible by our success against new cases. It thus becomes the principal job of the 1958 March of Dimes to bring hope and usefulness to the tens of thousands of polio-stricken children and adults who can benefit from modern care and rehabilitation. These are the ones who cannot be abandoned or forgotten; we cannot go on to new tasks until we finish the one at hand. When you give to the March of Dimes, you give meaning and purpose to the lives you helped to save. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, January 1, and January 15, 1898 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN oF ALL NATIONS" POLYNESIA: Polynesia, or the region of many islands, is the name _ usually given... To the numerous groups of islands and some few single islands scattered throughout the great Pacific ocean between the eastern shores of Asia and the western shores of America. The principal groups of Polynesia are... The Sandwich Islands, Tonga, or the Friendly Islands, the Marquesas group and many other scattered islands.... Most of the islands and especially the largest are volcanic in their origin, and some are coraline. 'The volcanic islands some of which have peaks varying in height from one to fourteen thousand feet are often distinguished as the high islands.... The islands of coraline formation are low and generally small. —Emma Jenson A VISIT TO SUMMIT STAKE:... In Rock Springs, Wyoming, we are cordially met by the president of the Relief Society and the Bishop's wife and several others... And we must here express our pleasure at the nice little meeting house that the Saints own in this far off settlement. At 2 p. M. We hold a Relief Society meeting.... At Evanston we are met by the Relief Society president and others. We go to the president's home for dinner and then to a meeting.... And each time how it makes our hearts swell with gratitude to our Heavenly Father for his goodness to His people, for here again is another cosy meeting house and some good sisters. We have a profitable meeting, then go to Almy.... We are taken to Bishop Boun's home by his whole-souled wife. It is a comfortable home situated on the side of a hill overlooking the whole place and has the loveliest garden.... We call on several sisters then at 2 p. M., we hold meetings again.... There were several other settlements we were to visit, but the season being so far advanced... It was deemed wisdom to postpone it until a future time. —Jennie A TWILIGHT REVERIE I'm sitting in the twilight, the sweetest hour of all, The hour when day is dying and dusk begins to fall The past within my memory locked, holds all its charm for me. The future dim, uncertain, calls silently from afar, With faith and love for a motto, and hope for a guiding star. —Ethel B. Ferguson THE NEW YEAR 1898: This people did not come into these valleys with the expectation of great wealth, on the contrary they came from religious motives, and that they might have a safe abiding place for themselves and those who desired to gather with them to build up Zion, and endeavor to keep the commandments of God. And year after year their number and possessions have increased; they have extended their borders and built up towns and cities, temples and institutions of learning, and made the waste places beautiful, and the land a delight to all —Editorial Page 30 RS. BELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President of the Relief Society, was honored October 31, 1957, by the Utah State Conference on Social Welfare. At a luncheon meeting, Mrs. Spafford was made a life member of this organization in recognition of her contribution to the field of human welfare. UEEN ELIZABETH II of Great Britain opened the Canadian Parliament October 14, 1957, the first monarch ever to perform this function. She wore her white satin, jewel-encrusted coronation gown. Later, she spent six days in Eastern United States. In both countries she won the hearts of the people. Still youthful, beautiful, charming, and radiant, she is regarded as having grown in strength and self-assurance since her accession to the throne. Expressing her desire for world peace, she extended encouragement to the United Nations and others working toward that end. ISS BABINGTON-SMITH, a granddaughter of the ninth Earl of Elgin, named by President Truman as "the outstanding Allied authority on the interpretation of photographs of aircraft," is the author of Air Spy, a book which describes her outstanding work during World War II. Harper and Brothers are the publishers.

Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RS. BERTHA A. KLEINMAN, of Mesa, Arizona, eighty years old, received a great tribute when Governor Ernest W. Mclarland proclaimed November 4, 1957, as "Bertha Kleinman Day," throughout the State. 'The proclamation referred to Mrs. Kleinman's efforts in behalf of the cultural and spiritual life of Arizona through her years of 'warm and unselfish service to the church and her community." Nationally recognized for her work in the fields of pageantry and poetry, she has written many pageants for the Church. She will be especially remembered for the pageant "The Message of the Ages," presented in Utah and other places in 1930, commemorating the latter-day organization of the Church and, in 1947, at the great Centennial celebration. RS. MILLICENT TRALLE, Chaplain, Fl Paso District Texas Woman's Press Association, has written a prayer for press women, lines of which are: "Help us to learn and know the truth and to report it with fairness and consideration. Help us ever to remember the power of the pen and to employ it for constructive purposes only help us to expend the rich heritage that is ours as women toward building the Kingdom of Heaven on earth." Page 31 C-> EDITORIAL cr VOL. 


 NO. 1 She Value of Sime Sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion; for, lo, I come, and I will dwell in the midst of thee, saith the Lord. And many nations shall be joined to the Lord in that day, and shall be my people.. Wii the coming of the New Year, treasures of time are again given to us, and the door of another year is opened wide. It is a time for contemplation of the use which will be made of the days which lie before us, which are a part of our life span upon the earth, and therefore precious to us. No one should wish to waste a single hour in the cycle of time, and the choice of the way in which time is spent is of such importance to each of us, and to the many others whose life pathways are crossed with ours, that a thoughtful consideration should be given to our allocation of the hours that compose the days and the years. For women who are homemakers and wives and mothers, for these privileged and blessed women, the allotment of a large part of available time is set by the responsibilities attendant upon these blessings, and the woman who would be wise enough to place first things first, will find within her household the duties which will require a large part of her time. She will, perhaps, find it necessary to classify the duties which are essential, those which are desirable, and those of questionable worth. It may be that when these duties are measured in the mind of the homemaker, she will be able to place emphasis upon those tasks Page 32. (Zechariah 2:10-11), which have a lasting benefit for her family and minimize the activities which are only temporary in value. It often happens that an activity which may not seem to have a rich reward for the moment, may in time to come be a remembered and precious experience to all participants. A walk with a child, viewing the springtime world, and talking only of flowers and grass and the Heavenly Father who made them, may be a permanent link of fulfillment between mother and child. 'The Family Hour, when the parents and the children unite in an expression of their talents and their love and consideration for each other; the holiday in the summer hills, when the family finds contentment together — these are hours rich in values beyond the time of their first satisfactions. Since we are the custodians of our own time, the reckoning must be made from a full heart and a grateful spirit — a rejoicing because of the days given to us, but also a weighing of our use of them. Time and the ability to labor are the capital stock of the whole world of mankind, and we are all indebted to God for the ability to use time to advantage, and he will require of us a strict account of the disposition we make of this ability; and he will not only require an account of our acts, but our words and our thoughts will also be brought into judg- EDITORIAL ment (Discourses of Brigham Young, 1941 Edition, page 301). It is for her own benefit here and hereafter, and for the blessing of her children, that a woman may be grateful for opportunities which the Church offers in many fields of personal development and service to others. It is our duty and our privilege as sisters to teach each other the gospel and to comfort and encourage each other; it is our blessed opportunity to teach each other's children in the Auxiliary organizations, and to have our children nurtured in a_ heritage of spiritual wealth. The woman who contributes part of her time to Church service and to her own organization, the Relief Society, is twice blessed: through her own efforts, she enjoys the lasting satisfactions of the giver; and through the teachings and inspiration of others, she is blessed as a recipient. The value of time, then, is doubled, and the enlightenment becomes a treasure to be kept for all the future days in all time. The gifts of the years are richly given to those who find uplifting thoughts and health for body and 33 mind in the natural world around us, in the seasons as they turn upon the earth, in plantings and harvests; in the far mountains and deserts, and in the quiet hills of home. 'The treasures of the arts, both for participation and appreciation, are jewels of time available to us — for our choice. Even within her own home, even with her children around her, a woman may explore the wide and radiant fields of music, history, literature, painting, handicrafts; and she may apply her knowledge in these to make her home more harmonious and the lives of her children as varied as the world is generous in its offerings to those who seek for the true riches of time. In her home a woman may share the great books with her family. She may read the Bible to her children. Seek him that maketh the seven stars and Orion, and turneth the shadow of death into the morning, and maketh the day dark with night: that calleth for the waters of the sea, and poureth them out upon the face of the earth: 'The Lord is his name (Amos 5:8). —V. P. C. Swo Ussitors Hazel M. Thomson A kindly soul came to the home, On a sad, heartbreaking day. She shook the hands and talked with folks, In a sympathetic way. And in soft tones she said to them, Before she turned to go, "Tf there is anvthing I can do, Be sure and let me know." Another came, to this same house, Entered quietly at the docr. Washed the dishes, made a pie, And finally scrubbed the floor. And when she left, no one recalled, Though they knew it to be true, That she had never even asked, If there was anything she could do.