[Vol45 | January 1958 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: The OConnor]
[The March of Dimes for 1958 Basil O'Connor]
cJhe    n Larch  of  'Jjimes  for  ig^S 
Basil  O'Connor 
President,  the  National  Foundation  for  Infantile  Paralysis 
"Xl/IDESPREAD  use  of  the  Salk  vaccine,  made  possible  by  March  of 
Dimes  funds,  has  already  protected  millions  of  Americans  against  the 
appalling  paralysis  of  polio. 
But  the  polio  fight  is  far  from  finished.  Not  only  do  large  segments 
of  the  public  still  lack  this  protection,  but  there  still  remain  300,000  vic- 
tims of  past  polio  attacks,  many  of  whom  —  children  in  particular  —  can 
be  restored  by  modern  medical  science  to  lives  of  usefulness  and  pro- 
ductivity. With  victory  in  sight,  we  cannot  walk  off  the  battlefield  and 
abandon  the  wounded.  That  is  why  our  theme  for  this  year's  March  of 
Dimes  is  "Survival  Is  Not  Enough." 
Survival  is  not  enough  for  these  thousands  and  thousands  of  young- 
sters and  adults  desperately  disabled  by  polio.  And  we  know  that  survival 
is  not  enough  for  the  millions  of  Americans  whose  bottomless  wells  of 
human  sympathy  and  understanding  will  be  called  upon  in  the  1958  March 
of  Dimes.  And  that  is  why  we  are  appealing  to  you  to  help  keep  the  old 
polio  patient  from  being  made  invisible  by  our  success  against  new  cases. 
It  thus  becomes  the  principal  job  of  the  1958  March  of  Dimes  to 
bring  hope  and  usefulness  to  the  tens  of  thousands  of  polio-stricken  chil- 
dren and  adults  who  can  benefit  from  modern  care  and  rehabilitation. 
These  are  the  ones  who  cannot  be  abandoned  or  forgotten;  we  cannot  go 
on  to  new  tasks  until  we  finish  the  one  at  hand.  When  you  give  to  the 
March  of  Dimes,  you  give  meaning  and  purpose  to  the  lives  you  helped 
to  save.

Sixty    LJears  Kjigo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  January  i,  and  January  15,  1898 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
POLYNESIA:  Polynesia,  or  the  region  of  many  islands,  is  the  name  usually 
given  ...  to  the  numerous  groups  of  islands  and  some  few  single  islands  scattered 
throughout  the  great  Pacific  ocean  between  the  eastern  shores  of  Asia  and  the  western 
shores  of  America.  .  ,  .  The  principal  groups  of  Polynesia  are  .  .  .  the  Sandwich  Islands, 
Tonga,  or  the  Friendly  Islands,  the  Marquesas  group  and  many  other  scattered  islands. 
.  .  .  Most  of  the  islands  and  especially  the  largest  are  volcanic  in  their  origin,  and  some 
are  coraline.  The  volcanic  islands  some  of  which  have  peaks  varying  in  height  from 
one  to  fourteen  thousand  feet  are  often  distinguished  as  the  high  islands.  .  .  .  The 
islands  of  coraline  formation  are  low  and  generally  small.  .  .  . 
— Emma  Jenson 
A  VISIT  TO  SUMMIT  STAKE:  ...  In  Rock  Springs,  Wyoming,  we  are  cordially 
met  by  the  president  of  the  Relief  Society  and  the  Bishop's  wife  and  several  others  .  .  . 
and  we  must  here  express  our  pleasure  at  the  nice  little  meeting  house  that  the  Saints 
own  in  this  far  off  settlement.  ...  At  2  p.m.  we  hold  a  Relief  Society  meeting,  .  .  . 
At  Evanston  we  are  met  by  the  Relief  Society  president  and  others.  We  go  to  the 
president's  home  for  dinner  and  then  to  a  meeting.  .  .  .  and  each  time  how  it  makes 
our  hearts  swell  with  gratitude  to  our  Heavenly  Father  for  his  goodness  to  His  people, 
for  here  again  is  another  cosy  meeting  house  and  some  good  sisters.  We  have  a  profit- 
able meeting,  then  go  to  Almy.  .  .  .  We  are  taken  to  Bishop  Bonn's  home  by  his 
whole-souled  wife.  It  is  a  comfortable  home  situated  on  the  side  of  a  hill  overlooking 
the  whole  place  and  has  the  loveliest  garden.  .  .  .  We  call  on  several  sisters  then  at 
2  p.m.,  we  hold  meetings  again.  ,  .  .  There  were  several  other  settlements  we  were  to 
visit,  but  the  season  being  so  far  advanced  ...  it  was  deemed  wisdom  to  postpone  it 
until  a  future  time. 
— ^Jennie 
A  TWILIGHT  REVERIE 
I'm  sitting  in  the  twilight,  the  sweetest  hour  of  all, 
The  hour  when  day  is  dying  and  dusk  begins  to  fall  .... 
The  past  within  my  memory  locked,  holds  all  its  charm  for  me. 
The  future  dim,  uncertain,  calls  silently  from  afar. 
With  faith  and  love  for  a  motto,  and  hope  for  a  guiding  star. 
— Ethel  B.  Ferguson 
THE  NEW  YEAR  1898:  This  people  did  not  come  into  these  valleys  with  the 
expectation  of  great  wealth,  on  the  contrary  they  came  from  religious  motives,  and  that 
they  might  have  a  safe  abiding  place  for  themselves  and  those  who  desired  to  gather 
with  them  to  build  up  Zion,  and  endeavor  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God.  And 
year  after  year  their  number  and  possessions  have  increased;  they  have  extended  their 
borders  and  built  up  towns  and  cities,  temples  and  institutions  of  learning,  and  made 
the  waste  places  beautiful,  and  the  land  a  delight  to  all.  .  .  . 
— Editorial 
Page  30

Woman*s  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
lyrRS.  BELLE  S.  SPAFFORD, 
General  President  of  the  Relief 
Society,  was  honored  October  31, 
1957,  by  the  Utah  State  Conference 
on  Social  Welfare.  At  a  luncheon 
meeting,  Mrs.  Spafford  was  made  a 
life  member  of  this  organization  in 
recognition  of  her  contribution  to 
the  field  of  human  welfare. 
QUEEN  ELIZABETH  II  of  Great 
^  Britain  opened  the  Canadian 
Parliament  October  14,  1957,  the 
first  monarch  ever  to  perform  this 
function.  She  wore  her  white  satin, 
jewel-encrusted  coronation  gown. 
Later,  she  spent  six  days  in  Eastern 
United  States.  In  both  countries 
she  won  the  hearts  of  the  people. 
Still  youthful,  beautiful,  charming, 
and  radiant,  she  is  regarded  as  hav- 
ing grown  in  strength  and  self-as- 
surance since  her  accession  to  the 
throne.  Expressing  her  desire  for 
world  peace,  she  extended  encour- 
agement to  the  United  Nations  and 
others  working  toward  that  end. 
lyriSS    BABINGTON-SMITH,   a 
granddaughter  of  the  ninth 
Earl  of  Elgin,  named  by  President 
Truman  as  ''the  outstanding  Allied 
authority  on  the  interpretation  of 
photographs  of  aircraft,"  is  the  auth- 
or of  Air  Spy,  a  book  which  de- 
scribes her  outstanding  work  during 
World  War  II.  Harper  and  Broth- 
ers are  the  pubhshers. 
lyfRS.  BERTHA  A.KLEINMAN, 
of  Mesa,  Arizona,  eighty  years 
old,  received  a  great  tribute  when 
Governor  Ernest  W.  McFarland 
proclaimed  November  4,  1957,  as 
''Bertha  Kleinman  Day,"  through- 
out the  State.  The  proclamation  re- 
ferred to  Mrs.  Kleinman's  efforts  in 
behalf  of  the  cultural  and  spiritual 
life  of  Arizona  through  her  years  of 
''warm  and  unselfish  service  to  the 
church  and  her  community."  Na- 
tionally recognized  for  her  work  in 
the  fields  of  pageantry  and  poetry, 
she  has  written  many  pageants  for 
the  Church.  She  will  be  especially 
remembered  for  the  pageant  "The 
Message  of  the  Ages,"  presented  in 
Utah  and  other  places  in  1930,  com- 
memorating the  latter-day  organiza- 
tion of  the  Church  and,  in  1947,  at 
the  great  Centennial  celebration. 
lyiRS.    MILLICENT    TRALLE, 
Chaplain,  El  Paso  District 
Texas  Woman's  Press  Association, 
has  written  a  prayer  for  press  wom- 
en, hues  of  which  are:  "Help  us  .  .  . 
to  learn  and  know  the  truth  and  to 
report  it  with  fairness  and  consider- 
ation. Help  us  ever  to  remember 
the  power  of  the  pen  and  to  employ 
it  for  constructive  purposes  only  ,  .  . 
help  us  to  expend  the  rich  heritage 
that  is  ours  as  women  toward  build- 
ing the  Kingdom  of  Lleaven  on 
earth." 
Page  31
