[Vol45 | January 1958 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Bailey]
[The Lumined Rod— Third Prize Poem Alice Morrey Bailey]
cJhe  Swedish    1 1  ii 
ission 
Preston  R.  Nfbley 
Assistant  Church  Historian 
\T  the  October  conference  of  the  Church,  held  in  Salt  Lake  City  in 
1849,  Erastus  Snow,  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  was 
called  to  open  a  mission  for  the  Church  ''in  the  Scandinavian  countries." 
Two  elders,  Peter  O.  Hansen  and  John  E.  Forsgren,  were  chosen  to  ac- 
company him. 
These  brethren  made  their  way  across  the  plains  eastward  in  the  winter 
and  endured  severe  hardships.  It  was  not  until  June  14,  1850,  that  they 
arrived  in  Copenhagen,  Denmark,  and  began  their  labors. 
John  E.  Forsgren  was  a  native  of  Sweden,  and  shortly  after  his  arrival 
in  Denmark  he  made  his  way  to  Gavle,  Sweden,  to  visit  members  of  his 
family  whom  he  had  not  seen  for  several  years.  It  was  there  at  Gavle,  on 
July  26,  1850,  about  a  month  after  his  arrival,  that  he  baptized  his  brother, 
Peter  Adolf  Forsgren,  the  first  convert  to  join  the  Church  in  that  land. 
Elder  Forsgren  labored  diligently  and  baptized  a  few  more  converts, 
when  he  was  seized  by  the  police  and  banished  from  his  native  country 
for  teaching  the  Mormon  doctrines,  there  being  no  religious  liberty  in 
Sweden  at  that  time.     However,  in  1853,  successful  missionary  work  was 
Svenska  Turisttrafikforbundet 
Submitted   by   Ethel  E.   Blomquist 
FLUSS  ABISKOJOKK  IN  THE  LAPPLAND  HIGHLANDS,  SWEDEN 
Page  22 

THE  SWEDISH  MISSION 
23 
Hovfotograf  Bertil  Norberg 
Submitted  by  Ethel  E.  Blomquist 
THE  CASTLE  OF  BORGHOLM,  ISLAND  OF  OLAND,  SWEDEN 
carried  on  in  southern  Sweden,  by  Elder  Anders  W.  Winberg,  and  on  April 
24th  of  that  year,  the  first  branch  of  the  Church  in  Sweden  was  organized 
by  Elder  Winberg  at  Skonaback.  A  short  time  later  a  small  branch  was 
organized  at  Malmo.  The  work  has  continued  since  that  time  and  has 
been  extended  to  all  parts  of  the  country. 
Sweden  comprised  an  important  part  of  the  Scandinavian  Mission  un- 
til 1905,  when  it  was  made  a  separate  mission.  Andrew  Jenson,  Assistant 
Church  Historian,  computed  in  1930,  that  from  the  time  missionary  work 
began  in  Sweden  until  1930,  19,147  persons  had  been  baptized,  of  whom 
8,545  had  emigrated  to  Utah. 
In  August  1957  there  were  2,404  members  of  the  Church  in  Sweden, 
located  in  thirty-six  branches.    Harry  T.  Oscarson  is  the  mission  president. 
Forty  Relief  Society  organizations,  with  535  members,  were  reported 
in  December  1956.  Ruth  T.  Oscarson  presides  over  the  Swedish  Mission 
Relief  Society. 
Note:  The  cover  for  this  Magnzine,  "Summer  Sunset,  Magelungen  Lake,  Near 
Stoekholm,  Sweden,"  was  submitted  l:)y  the  former  President  of  the  Swedish  Mission 
Rehef  Soeiety,  Ethel  E.  Blomquist.  The  photograph  was  taken  by  Eben  J.  Blomquist, 
Jr.    See  also  "Reeipcs  From  the  Swedish  Mission,"  by  Ruth  T.  Oscarson,  page  38.
