[Vol45 | January 1958 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: A Question!]
Page 34 y Fireside C hat = "Ona. Is I Burni ing' Question A Cfinesitie Chat on a Burning Question! IRE is man's friend; it can be his foe. It is heat for his home, energy for his machines; refiner and purifier of coarse materials; source of light. The word itself — "fire" — is rich in symbolism: fired with imagination; fired with enthusiasm; fired with inspiration; fired with faith. A beautiful compound of the word is flireside — symbol of home, hospitality, friendship. To thousands of young people, "Fireside" means something special: a Sabbath evening spent with young neighbors in pleasant, prayerful discussion and song. All these are positive aspects of fire. But it has negative connotations Paqe -5 36 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 and destructive powers, also. It can mean — or bring — danger, destruction, death. Four hundred billion times a year in America someone kindles a destructive fire — with the strike of a match or the flick of a lighter to start a cigarette. That's "playing with fire' — fire of the most dangerous kind. In the process, millions of Americans are "getting burned" — not a few of them fatally — for the cigarette is now known by scientific research as well as through revelation to be a deadly foe of health, vitality, and long - life. To quote Dr. Alton Ochsner, one of the world's most eminent cancer specialists: "Tobacco is a loaded, often lethal, weapon. 'Time pulls the trigger." Most other unbiased medical researchers and practicing physicians now agree. Light up? Just a minute, young friend! 'That's the wrong road! It's the way to bad luck: bad breath, bad taste, bad throat, bad lungs, bad nerves, bad heart. The road to good luck for youth and adults is to know and heed what inspired religious leaders, as well as today's informed scientists, tell us about tobacco and what we ought to do about it — shun it for the deadly poison it is. This is wisdom — and what rich and wonderful rewards come from acting wisely. So — to good friends at the fireside — and all others everywhere — beware of false promises of pleasures from tobacco. 'These promised pleasures are nothing but "pipe dreams." 'They can't come true. Rather, be informed, be smart, be obedient— BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF. <oShere Gs a Water Now Helen H. Winn There were the winters, and I knew them well— The crush of snow in mold of mittened hands, Fluff on the tongue, the clean transparent smell, The steam of breath, the numbness when one stands Too long, that creeps through rubber-booted feet And sends them finally through tracks of white To seek a gratifying warm retreat And curl in woolen blankets for the might. There is a winter now outside the door That I have tightly shut against the cold. I cannot make snow angels anymore, Or build a fort with snowballs I have rolled. Winter has lost its friendliness somehow— There is a pane of glass between us now. Biographical Sketches of Contest Winners Helen Candland Stark, Wilmington, Delaware, a graduate of Brigham Young University, submits the following account of her interests and activities: ""Vhe eldest of nine children, I grew up summers in Sanpete County, Utah, and winters in Provo. I taught English and speech in high school, and was a member of the faculty of Bigham Young University when I married Dr. Henry Stark, a chemist for the DuPont Company, and we came East to live. We have sccn a nucleus of two or three families grow into a branch of the Church large enough to build a chapel. Our older son and daughter are freshmen at Brigham Young University, and our youngest child is a junior in high school. We live on a five-acre lot, where we enjoy following the seasons with seed and harvest. In the community I have been active in little theater groups and as a speaker on literary and religious subjects. For several years I have edited a Church branch newslctter." Lac] W. Hill, Salt Lake City, Utah, was born in Oregon to Parley and Maryhale Woolsey. She began writing as a child and made her first sale to The Improvement Era. Her work has appeared in many national magazines, anthologics, and newspapers. She is a member of the League of Utah Writers, the Art Barn Poets, Utah Poetry Socicty, and Poets of the Pacific. Her stories and pocms have received several outstanding awards, including The Deseret News prize Christmas story in 1952. In addition to writing, Mrs. Hill keeps house, sews, illustrates books, and takes care of four children, two big boys and two little girls. Her husband is Udell Hill. Mrs. Hill says that the members of her family have appeared many times in her writings. She tells us that her poem 'Song of the Weathervanes" grew from the cover of The Relief Society Magazine for July 1956. Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, is the wife of DeWitt Bailey, mother of four children and grandmother to six. Her pocms and storics have appeared in many magazines and newspapers and have received prizes for their outstanding artistry. She is a member of the League of Utah Writers, the Utah Sonneteers, the Associated Utah Artists, hostorian of the Utah Poetry Socicty, and is a member of the Utah State Institute of Fine Arts, appointed to represent sculpture by two successive governors. She serves in this position as a member of the Art Committee, charter member of the Original Writing Contest, and Utah State Symphony Board member. She is Supervisor of the Research Report Service, a branch of co-operative research, at the University of Utah. Since the age of twelve, she has been active in the Auxiliaries of the Church. The last two ycars she has devoted much time to writing two volumes of the history of her family. She is now resuming her work in marble carving at the University of Utah. Deone Robinson Sutherland, Oakland, California, tells us that she "graduated from the University of Utah in 1945, where I was editor of The Pen and active in the theater. I have continued writing on and off since then, and enjoy it as a hobby when the children are napping or in bed for the night. My husband, Dr. Harold Pratt Sutherland, and I have three wonderful children, two boys and a girl, eight, four, and cightcen months. We have lived in nine different wards since our marnage in the Salt Lake Temple ten years ago. In the past I have been ward and stake drama director, taught the literature lessons for five years in Relief Society, and am now beginning my second year as First Counselor in the Primary presidency of Oakland Fourth Ward. I was born in Salt Lake City, and grew up in Granger, Utah, where my parents now live." Page 3/ R ec (pes Srom SS weden Ruth T. Oscarson O*E of the first Words that you bord." It comes from an old tr: 'anguage is the wor Parties to which onginated long ag ring some kind of fo around which the Suests walk Smorgasbord js still sery: Vie, but it has been ad in perfect harmony with food habi d "SmorgasO at country od. These dishes Were then ed. Filling their plates. 'The apted to current €S consist of Only a fey: dishes, When ad, butter, Pickled herring, shes are served, followed e hot dishes. Usu ally you top it all off wit esserts, when Served, are usually sery; The following recipes can all be used for Smorgasbord, or they may be served Separately as dinner fe) I Karops (Beef Stew) 2 Ibs. Beef chuck 3 red or yellow onions, sliced = tsp. Salt 10-15 whole allspice '+ tsp. White Pepper 2 Day leaves > tbsp. Flour 2 C. Water 1/3 tbsp. Butter Cut meat into thick slice S or large cubes in flour mixed With salt Pound with a i and pepper. Brown butter in Dutch oven. Add meat and mons and brown on all sides, then add bay leaves and whole illspice. Bring water to boiling Point and pour over meat. Simmer in a covered pan for about one and one-half hours or until meat is tender. Ad more water if needed. When ready, place meat in hot deep dish and strain gravy over. Serve with boiled potatoes and Pickled beets or Lingonberries (Lingonberries are like cranberries, ) Intacpa Ropsetor (Pickled Beets) 20 small beets 2 tsp. Salt 1 qt. Water Dressing: 1 C. Vinegar 4 tbsp. Sugar 4 tbsp. Water 1 clove Wash beets well and cut off le: sulted boilj ing water and cook hwenty to f Place Whole beets in and cut in thin s]j 1 utes, or until tender. Drain, cool, peel, Ces. Place in Slass dish. Fix ys ater, sugar, and cloye and three hours, Ucnsomerery (Baked Omelet) 4 eggs 148 ¢. Cream or milk 72. Tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Butter dash of white Pepper Beat eggs togethe r with scasoning and add Cream. Poy, let pan or baking dish. Bake in moderate oven 350° F. Hifteen Or until golden brown, Loosen with Spatula and s]j Saucepan and cover lide one half onto hot platter. Cover with filling, and fold over used, pour filling over omelet. Serve; ly.