[Vol45 | January 1958 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work Meeting: Savings and Added Happiness | Author: William F. Edwards]
Work Tleeting—Living More Abundantly (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 7—Savings and Added Happiness Elder William F. Edwards For Tuesday, April 8, 1958 Objective: To gain an understanding of the importance of savings to our personal happiness and to the preserving of our way of life. T was natural for the beehive to become a symbol of proper living among the Mormon pioneers. The ancient trademark of the savings bank is a beehive. The active, working bees are suggestive of the life of successful people who become the depositors. The honey stored in the comb for a day of need is representative of savings. Savings can truly be called the nectar of our labor, because savings are essential for one's full temporal and spiritual happiness, and to preserve our way of life. LESSON DEPARTMENT Correct Point of View Toward Savings Some people have misunderstood the real meaning of statements in the scriptures and have belittled the importance of savings and the appropriateness of attempting to become financially independent. The development of our talents, the gaining of knowledge, the accumulation of savings ls blessed if, "... Ye will seek them for the intent of good" (Jacob 2:19). Remember, it may be easier to be meek when poor, but it may be more noble to be meek when rich! Importance of Savings A fool can earn money; but it takes a wise man to save and dispose of it to his own advantage (Discourses of Brigham Young, 1941 Edition, page 292). Savings are important for many reasons. 1. We are not in this world only to provide for ourselves, but to provide for others, and our capacity to help others is very limited unless we have accumulated some "riches." But if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel (I 'Timothy 5:8). Idleness and wastefulness are not according to the rules of heaven. Preserve all you can, that you may have abundance to bless your friends and your enemies (Discourses of Brigham Young, 1941 Edition, page 290). 2. It is the duty of each person, or each man and wife, to be self-sustaining, if possible, during emergencies and to prepare for the later years in life. Who are deserving of praise? The persons who take care of themselves or a7 the ones who always trust in the great mercies of the Lord to take care of them? It is just as consistent to expect that the Lord will supply us with fruit when we do not plant the trees; or that when we do not plow and sow and are saved the labor of harvesting, we should cry to the Lord to save us from want, as to ask him to save us from the consequences of our own folly, disobedience and waste (Discourses of Brigham Young, 1941 Edition, page 293). Only after we have done our best, are we prepared to ask others for help, if outside help is needed.. A mature individual, and especially the head of the family, will find that a savings account makes the difference between economic freedom and being an economic prisoner. There are so many ways that building up a savings account will be an aid to success. A working person can usually make wiser decisions regarding employment opportunities if he has a reserve fund. The business man and the farmer with reserves on hand will be able to make the most of opportunities. 4. Savings invested in equipment make possible the more efficient use of time. Everyday examples are automatic washing machines versus doing the job by hand; vacuum cleaners versus mop and_ brooms; tractor versus horse; and truck versus wagon. 'lo most, none of these can be had without savings. 5. Living so that expenses are less than income, and thus permitting the accumulation of savings, increases one's power to serve the Church. This family will be prepared to sustain a son or a daughter on a mission, and maybe the parents themselves will someday be able to enjoy a mission together. 58 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1958 This family will have the margin of income over expenses that permits them to contribute to building chapels, and responding to other requests. This family can do these things cheerfully without creating emergencies because their financial house is in order. 6. The democratic way of life is no more secure than the ability and willingness of people to have and to use savings wisely. Products and services such as oil and gas, electricity and telephone, that are so essential to modern living would not be possible unless there were savings with which to buy the facilities and finance the business. Discourses of Brigham Young, Chapter 26, "Thrift and Industry," is replete with choice ideas and suggestions on the subject of savings. It is also recommended that Chapter 27, "Wealth" be read. Brigham Young wanted the saints to live and to develop themselves so that they would become a wealthy people. He also wanted everyone to understand that "Wealth brings happiness only when used for the Gospel" (Discourses of Brigham Young, 1941 Edition, page 313).