[Vol45 | January 1958 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Poem | Title: Doubt Not, Fear Not" Christine H. Robinson 55 Work Meeting: Savings and Added Happiness William F. Edwards 56 Literature: Macbeth. Villain or Hero? Briant S. Jacobs 58 Social Science: Love — A Basic Ingredient John Farr Larson 65 POETRY Perfect Prelude Mabel Law Atkinson 8 White With Silence Christie Lund Coles 21 Two Visitors Hazel M. Thomson 33 There Is a Winter Now Helen H. Winn 36 Poem for January Pansye H. Powell 40 Winter Evelyn Fields ted 41 Old Organ Ida Elaine James]
36  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1958 
and  destructive  powers,  also.  It  can  mean  —  or  bring  —  danger,  destruc- 
tion, death. 
Four  hundred  billion  times  a  year  in  America  someone  kindles  a  de- 
structive fire  —  with  the  strike  of  a  match  or  the  flick  of  a  lighter  to  start 
a  cigarette.  That's  ''playing  with  fire"  —  fire  of  the  most  dangerous  kind. 
In  the  process,  millions  of  Americans  are  ''getting  burned"  —  not  a  few 
of  them  fatally  —  for  the  cigarette  is  now  known  by  scientific  research  as 
well  as  through  revelation  to  be  a  deadly  foe  of  health,  vitality,  and  long 
life. 
To  quote  Dr.  Alton  Ochsner,  one  of  the  world's  most  eminent  cancer 
specialists: 
"Tobacco  is  a  loaded,  often  lethal,  weapon.    Time  pulls  the  trigger." 
Most  other  unbiased  medical  researchers  and  practicing  physicians 
now  agree. 
Light  up?  Just  a  minute,  young  friend!  That's  the  wrong  road!  It's 
the  way  to  bad  Juck:  bad  breath,  bad  taste,  bad  throat,  bad  lungs,  bad 
nerves,  bad  heart. 
The  road  to  good  luck  for  youth  and  adults  is  to  know  and  heed  what 
inspired  religious  leaders,  as  well  as  today's  informed  scientists,  tell  us 
about  tobacco  and  what  we  ought  to  do  about  it  —  shun  it  for  the  deadly 
poison  it  is. 
This  is  wisdom  —  and  w^hat  rich  and  wonderful  rewards  come  from 
acting  wisely. 
So  —  to  good  friends  at  the  fireside  —  and  all  others  everywhere  — 
beware  of  false  promises  of  pleasures  from  tobacco.  These  promised  pleas- 
ures are  nothing  but  *  pipe  dreams."  They  can't  come  true.  Rather,  be 
informed,  be  smart,  be  obedient— 
BE  HONEST  WITH  YOURSELF. 
cJhere  S/s  a    W/i titer    H ow 
Helen  H.  Winn 
There  were  the  winters,  and  I  knew  them  well — 
The  crush  of  snow  in  mold  of  mittened  hands, 
Fluff  on  the  tongue,  the  elean  transparent  smell, 
7'he  steam  of  breath,  the  numbness  when  one  stands 
Too  long,  that  ereeps  through  rubber-booted  feet 
And  sends  them  finally  through  traeks  of  white 
To  seek  a  gratifying  warm  retreat 
And  curl  in  woolen  blankets  for  the  night. 
There  is  a  winter  now  outside  the  door 
That  I  have  tightly  shut  against  the  cold. 
I  cannot  make  snow  angels  anymore. 
Or  build  a  fort  with  snowballs  I  haxe  rolled. 
Winter  has  lost  its  friendliness  somehow — 
There  is  a  pane  of  glass  between  us  now.

iuiographical  o^ ketches  of  Looniest   Vl/inners 
Helen  Candhnd  Stnrk,  Wilmington,  Delaware,  a  graduate  of  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity, submits  the  following  aeeount  of  her  interests  and  activities:  "The  eldest  of  nine 
children,  I  grew  up  summers  in  Sanpete  County,  Utah,  and  winters  in  Provo.  I  taught 
English  and  speech  in  high  school,  and  was  a  member  of  the  faculty  of  Brigham  Young 
University  when  I  married  Dr.  Henry'  Stark,  a  chemist  for  the  DuPont  Company,  and 
\vc  came  East  to  live.  We  have  seen  a  nucleus  of  two  or  three  families  grow  into  a 
branch  of  the  Church  large  enough  to  build  a  chapel.  Our  older  son  and  daughter  are 
freshmen  at  Brigham  Young  Universit}s  and  our  youngest  child  is  a  junior  in  high 
school.  We  live  on  a  five-acre  lot,  where  we  enjo}'  following  the  seasons  with  seed  and 
harvest.  In  the  community  I  ha\'e  been  acti\'e  in  little  theater  groups  and  as  a  speaker 
on  literary  and  religious  subjects.  For  several  years  I  ha\e  edited  a  Church  branch 
newsletter." 
Lac]  W.  IliU,  Salt  Lake  Cit}\  Utah,  was  born  in  Oregon  to  Parley  and  Marjhale 
W^oolsey.  She  began  writing  as  a  child  and  made  her  first  sale  to  The  Improvement  Era. 
Her  work  has  appeared  in  many  national  magazines,  anthologies,  and  newspapers.  She 
is  a  member  of  the  League  of  Utah  Writers,  the  Art  Barn  Poets,  Utah  Poetry  Society, 
and  Poets  of  the  Pacific.  Her  stories  and  poems  have  received  several  outstanding 
awards,  including  The  Deseret  News  prize  Christmas  story  in  1952.  In  addition  to 
writing,  Mrs.  Hill  keeps  house,  sews,  illustrates  books,  and  takes  care  of  four  children, 
two  big  boys  and  two  little  girls.  Her  husband  is  Udell  Hill.  Mrs.  Hill  says  that  the 
members  of  her  family  have  appeared  many  times  in  her  writings.  She  tells  us  that 
her  poem  "Song  of  the  Weathervanes"  grew  from  the  cover  of  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine  for  July  1956. 
Alice  Morrey  Bailey,  Salt  Lake  City,  is  the  wife  of  DeWitt  Bailey,  mother  of  four 
children  and  grandmother  to  six.  Her  poems  and  stories  have  appeared  in  many  maga- 
zines and  newspapers  and  have  received  prizes  for  their  outstanding  artistry.  She  is 
a  member  of  the  League  of  Utah  Writers,  the  Utah  Sonneteers,  the  Associated  Utah 
Artists,  hostorian  of  the  Utah  Poetr}'  Society,  and  is  a  member  of  the  Utah  State  Insti- 
tute of  Fine  Arts,  appointed  to  represent  sculpture  by  two  successive  governors.  She 
serves  in  this  position  as  a  member  of  the  Art  Committee,  charter  member  of  the 
Original  Writing  Contest,  and  Utah  State  Symphony  Board  member.  She  is  Supcr- 
\isor  of  the  Research  Report  Service,  a  branch  of  co-operative  research,  at  the  Uni- 
\ersity  of  Utah.  Since  the  age  of  twelve,  she  has  been  active  in  the  Auxiliaries  of  the 
Church.  The  last  two  years  she  has  devoted  much  time  to  writing  two  volumes  of  the 
history'  of  her  family.  She  is  now  resuming  her  work  in  marble  carving  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Utah. 
Deone  Robinson  Sutherland,  Oakland,  California,  tells  us  that  she  "graduated  from 
the  University  of  Utah  in  1945,  where  I  was  editor  of  The  Pen  and  acti\e  in  the 
theater.  I  have  continued  writing  on  and  off  since  then,  and  enjoy  it  as  a  hobby  when 
the  children  are  napping  or  in  bed  for  the  night.  My  husband,  Dr.  Harold  Pratt  Suther- 
land, and  I  have  three  wonderful  children,  two  boys  and  a  girl,  eight,  four,  and  eigh- 
teen months.  We  have  lixcd  in  nine  different  wards  since  our  marriage  in  the  Salt 
Lake  Temple  ten  years  ago.  In  the  past  I  have  been  ward  and  stake  drama  director,
