Perennials For All-Year Blossoming Hazel D. Moyle ?FLOWERS are among God's finest thoughts of beauty, taking form to gladden mortal gaze?bright gems of earth, in which, perchance, we see what Eden was?what Paradise may be!" These are the sentiments of a famous philosopher. Do we not, then, need flowers round our homes now as never before to comfort our spirits and give us hope and courage during these dark and busy war times? To me the meanest flower that blows can give? Thoughts that do often lie too deep for words. So said the poet Wordsworth. Let us not deprive ourselves of these lovely symbols of truth and beauty: every home should be a citadel of tranquillity ?during these troubled times, a place where our faith can be restored and our dreams renewed. We need our flower gardens in which to reclaim our ideals? but just how are we to find time to grow flowers, with the daily schedule of everyone already so overcrowded? The answer may be found in the planting of perennial flowers, for these plants are more or less permanent additions to the garden, once they have become established. The perennials live over year after year, many of them giving increasing bloom and beauty as the years Page 224 pass. They become old friends, reappearing with punctual precision each at its appointed time. We have chosen six well-known and easy-to-grow perennials as being essential for every garden, for by planting these six indispensables any home flower lover can enjoy bloom from spring until fall frosts arrive, and almost every back yard can find room and time to cultivate such a simple planting. While there are many other beautiful and worthy flowers that can be grown without a great deal of skill or extra work, we believe the following should be in every garden, not only for their desirability and beauty, but because they thrive with ordinary care in almost any location. The peony comes first on the list, because it is the earliest to bloom and also because of its long life. Last year I saw a fine old peony plant that had flowered each spring for thirty-five years without replanting ?and it was a garden in itself with its great mass of nearly fifty large double blooms. Remember, when you set out roots of the peony next fall (for this plant should never be planted in spring), that in order to enjoy such a performance of flowers, perhaps for the rest of your lifetime, you should see that it is planted correctly. Choose a spot in full sun, well PERENNIALS FOR ALL-YEAR BLOSSOMING 225 away from trees and overhanging growth, and dig a hole at least two feet deep. In the lower half of this hole you must place good, rich nourishment for those future years of bloom, old barnyard manure should be used generously and well tramped down. Then a layer of ordinary, good garden loam should be thrown in, upon which to set the roots. The pink buds or eyes should be placed one inch below the surface of the soil?this is of the greatest importance for too deep planting is the cause of many failures in blooming?firm this soil well before planting, so the new roots do not settle too deeply, then fill up the hole and water well. Choosing from the bewildering wealth of lovely and desirable varieties offered in the catalogues, becomes a major problem for any flower lover, but if you will use the rating of each kind as given by the American Peony Society, printed plainly in front of the description in all reliable catalogues, this will assist you greatly in making your choice. Good points are rated up to ten which would make a perfect flower. There are actually some with the highest rating of 9:09 that are now very cheap in price. Any variety receiving a rating of 8 or more should be a good choice, those of lower rating usually having some fault or other. Remember that by choosing early, midseason, and also late-blooming varieties, you can enjoy a long season of bloom, and, if you have room, do include that grand old flower, the Decoration Day peony, officinalis. This is available in pink, red and white. It is a flower of satiny luster and it also blooms two weeks or more before other varieties. The second perennial on our list is the iris.... And who would do without this wonderful flower! Designed just for the busy gardener, this accepts our hot, dry climate with amiability, demanding little care. Ordinary unmanured soil suits it well, its one absolute requirement being an open, sunny situation. In order to bring out the full beauty of the lovely, silken iris flower, the plants should be well watered while buds are forming, and during the flowering. (You can prolong the blooms and make them much larger, too, by watering generously at this time.) But for the rest of the year they can stand neglect. If you have not grown any of the newer varieties of iris, then you have a treat in store. Every garden should find room for the exquisite, great, orchid-like bloom of the variety "William Mohr," which can now be purchased for a mere trifling twenty-five cents. A still newer and lovelier variety in named "Ormohr," costing a dollar or more. Iris experts have recently produced one named "El-mohr," the same breath-taking size and beauty, but taller and of a deeper colored mulberry-purple. Being a rare, new type (producing a seven-inch flower), this demands a high price, however, in a few years, we can all enjoy it at a reasonable price. "Purissima," a beauteous white variety, and "Wabash," notable prizewinner with great blue-purple falls and white standards, also deserve every gardener's consideration ?but choose for yourself according 
226 to your own tastes and purse and space.
This can be transplanted at almost any season, even when in full bloom. So if you see some flower that you covet, this coming June, there is no reason why you should not take a start home with you.
THE third perennial on our list is the flaunting 'oriental' poppy. For sheer glamour and breath-taking beauty, one need look no farther than the new varieties of this fine old flower with their beautiful, silken flowers of such melting colors as coral, geranium-pink, flame, cerise and shell-pink. The finest of all is named 'Wonderkininde,' a great flower of lustrous watermelon pink, as large as a dinner plate.
This plant has one strict requirement: it should be planted during its dormant season, which is from August until late fall. Spring planting brings only failure, so be sure to order your plants when the poppies bloom during late May and June. Once established, there are few more faithful garden subjects, and their requirements are just ordinary garden care.
July brings the splendid towers of blue of the modern delphiniums. Even one or two of these spike-like flowers can lift any garden out of the ordinary. While these proud blooms require a little more attention in staking and watering than others of our list, they are well worth the trouble. A lower and more spreading type named 'Delphinium Belladonna' can be grown with less care, and is longer lived than the tall new hybrids. Both are lovely.
The midsummer phlox is number five on our list?where could we find a finer flower for this time of year? The great, magnificent heads of bloom can now be had in a bewildering variety of vibrant and flaming colors. In cooler sections of Utah and Idaho this perennial fairly outdoes itself. Plant your phlox in most ground where they receive morning sun, but where they are shaded in the late afternoon. And if yours is a hot, dry garden, prepare the ground well with very old manure, then mulch the surface each spring with peat moss, lawn clippings, or more old manure. And if the flower heads are clipped off as soon as they have faded, others will form just below, and you can enjoy phlox for many weeks. Soak the plants deeply by allowing the hose to run without a nozzle during the blooming period.
Our last flower is the chrysanthemum, for this is the queen of all fall flowers and one that brings an entire new season of beauty into your garden. Recent hybridizing has brought us many new types and varieties, many being early enough to bloom and valuable in colder sections where ordinary chrysanthemums seldom flower. The University of Minnesota has worked for years on an early and extra-hardy strain, and a splendid list of kinds and colors of these are now available as well as many other desirable new kinds and colors.
The cushion mums, growing into a low, bush-like plant, each so floriferous that one plant becomes a garden in itself, are also brilliant and lovely. One can now have chrysanthemums of almost any color except blue, and the taller Chrysanthemums will do in just PERENNIALS FOR ALL-YEAR BLOSSOMING 227 ordinary good garden loam, but will pay handsome dividends in deep color and profuse bloom if the plants are given a little extra feeding during the growing year. This is easily done by applying a one-inch mulch of old, well-rotted manure (cow manure is best) around each plant at two-or-three week intervals. First cultivate the surface, then apply the manure, and follow immediately with a thorough, deep soaking, preferably with the nozzle of the hose removed. Do not sprinkle as this sometimes brings mildew. This mulch helps to keep the soil moist at the same time it supplies mild feeding. With this, our sixth perennial, the year is brought to a close with a brilliant fanfare, a fitting farewell to summer. And the joyous part is that these same plants do not die, but when spring once more returns they arise from their winter's sleep in response to some mysterious call? The gentle heat and soft repeated rains, Make the green blood to dance within their veins, Then, at the call, emboldened out they come. And swell the gems, and burst the narrow room; Broader and broader yet their blooms display, Salute the welcome sun and entertain the day, "Spring"?Dryden