AN Appreciation ANOTHER birthday of Relief Society has just passed. Anniversary programs held throughout the Church testified to the love of the women for their organization and to the appreciation of the members of the Church for its efforts and accomplishments. The milestone reached on March 17, 1945 reminds us that Relief Society women have been working, serving, and studying together for 103 years. Their organization which was founded by a prophet of God on a broad, liberal, and adequate foundation has enabled them to meet assignments, requirements, and needs as they have occurred during this long period of time. Their experiences in this great. Society, dedicated to service and education, have been manifold, varied, and stimulating. In their labors they have learned how to be helpful in overcoming the difficulties and hardships of daily life, how to be helpful in solving problems incident to migration and pioneering, and how to be helpful in the adjustments and readjustments confronting individuals, families, and society in this great century of changes and developments resulting from discoveries, inventions and new and different conditions. And because of these activities which have constantly required strength, foresight, and ingenuity, and bePage218 cause of the intelligent study put forth in regular class work, learning how best to live and improve and enrich life, great development has come to these earnest and able workers. Thus it is seen that the Relief Society with its two-fold program has brought unusual opportunity to the women of the Church who have partaken of its advantages?opportunity for human service and opportunity for spiritual, intellectual, and emotional development. Through human service there has been engendered in their hearts a love and sympathy for others, the spirit of the golden rule, and that respect for human personality which was taught and practiced by the Master himself. And through regular educational study and research the lives of all who participated have been enriched. Their motto has been "The Glory of God Is Intelligence." To the women of the past we pay tribute. We are indebted to them for their vision, self-sacrificing efforts, and untiring labors. They have left us a rich heritage of faith and devotion to the Relief Society cause and to the restored gospel. Their testimonies of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith and their lives of service to the Church have been an inspiration and strength to us. To our co-workers, we offer congratulations for their like devotion and fortitude and for their great accomplishments in these days of apprehension and anxiety; Our prayer is that the Lord will bless and sustain them. And to the new and vigorous young leaders and workers who are coming into the service we say, look backward as well as forward; strive to properly evaluate the past and use it as a foundation for the future; and look forward with faith and a long view. A. B. L.