The Strength of the Pack Mary Petteison 
"MOTHER, why are you up so early? It's only a quarter after six!" Jane exclaimed as she came into the kitchen in her night gown.
Her mother continued to sift flour into her mixing bowl till the sifter was empty. Setting it down she said firmly, "Don't you realize what there is to do today? I have to be in court for Steven at half past nine."
Jane's mouth made ready to answer, but her mother, anticipating contradiction, went on to say, "I know I don't have to be there till ten o'clock, but I want to be off the street before everyone in this community is on his way to work or to shop. Besides I'll have to prepare something for lunch that I can set down in a hurry, because you know I'm due at the Supply Depot at one o'clock."
"It makes me sick to think that Steve would be so silly as to get mixed up in a scrape with that tramp of a Rink Shader. When I asked him what he did it for he told me it was none of my business. I'd like to know if it isn't." Jane finished scornfully.
Jane's mother turned and faced her. "He's my son and I don't want you to talk that way about Steven, but he was wrong to tell you it was none of your business. It is the whole family's business. What we'll have to do is to try to keep it from happening again. We must try to help him to live above his
things. I feel as if it were all my fault," she sighed.
"I don't see why," Jane protested. "I do, and it's hard to take," her mother answered remorsefully.
Jane heaped two self-praise. "See what I've done, I've kept myself and helped you with the living expense. I've had nice friends, too."
Mrs. Paige answered in a kindlier tone, "Yes, you've done fine, but you must remember we've sort of worked together,' and for the first time Jane noticed that her mother had been crying.
"I'll come right back and help you, Mother," Jane said sympathetically, as she hurried off to dress.
"Jane," her mother called into the hall, "be careful not to waken Lorna, but when you get dressed go upstairs and rouse Dwight and Ned. Breakfast is at seven this morning."
Steven came into the kitchen with his shoes in his hand and sat down to put them on. His mother looked at him sadly. "Here is a clean shirt, and you had better put on your best shoes, I want you to look neat and respectable. Hurry and get dressed because you know you have to report at school before you come to court."
Mrs. Paige walked hurriedly along the streets of Riverton. She carried no umbrella though rain seemed imminent. Above all, she hoped she could not meet not be overtaken by anyone she knew. She was too full of doubts and regrets to carry on conversation. She remembered how often in her sorrow her friends had persuaded her to get out among people. "Children that are watched too much don't get along any better than those that are put on their own responsibility" had been offered as sound advice.
Just as she reached the street corner on the opposite side from the court house, she saw Judge Alden ascending the steps. She quickened her gait, wishing to speak with him before he settled down to office routine. She entered the main hall just as he was going into his office. "Good morning, Mrs. Paige," he said cheerfully, and closed the door.
Full of misgiving and disappointment, she went into the Juvenile Court and seated herself on the east side of the room, four seats back from the Judge's table.
A crash of thunder echoed through the building and the rain began to fall copiously. She sat watching the ever-flooding window, lost in the problem which faced her. At length she murmured, "There's no use of talking to the Judge about my trouble. I know the ins and outs of it myself." She remembered the day when Steven had come in confidently and asked, "Mother, will you buy me a wheel, nearly all the boys have one?"
"No! I can't afford to buy you a bicycle," she had replied curtly, "now let that end it." He had not spoken more, and she recalled now that he had never mentioned it again. She felt he had neglected her children and her duty as a mother, and began twisting her blue fabric gloves into rope-like furiousas, as she tried to think what she could do to get control of her emotions and her affairs. She shook the
gloves loose as a thought shaped itself in her mind. I'll try and get Steven away from Rink Shader. I'll sell my house and move to a better neighborhood. She visioned her house and yard in detail. How shabby it all was, no one would buy it. Then another thought came to her. It wouldn't do any good to sell, all the children in the town attended the same school. It was not the location of one's home nor the failings of neighbors that brought one sorrow, it was one's own shortcomings. She put her hand over her eyes, "Father in heaven what shall I do?" she prayed.
Just then the son came from behind the clouds and shown full on the rain-drenched window, as when a child smiles through its tears. The light at once drew Steven about her to a realization of where she was. She straightened her shoulders against the back of the bench and noticed that everyone connected with the case was in his seat, except the delinquent boys. What if they had decided to ignore the appointment! She cringed at the thought, but then she saw them coming through a side door, all eyes turned upon them. The Judge nodded toward them and indicated the chairs they were to occupy. Rink led the way shamefaced and dejected. He didn't expect anyone to sympathize with him, he would tell the Judge the truth and that was all he could do. Steven followed. His head was held high as if he were determined to face his mistake like a man, though it could be seen by his pale face and set mouth that he had suffered. Tears gathered in his mother's eyes at the thought of his misdemeanor. As he sat down he cast a furtive glance around the room, and caught the sympathetic gaze of his mother which gave him assurance. He sat up straight, his right hand holding the left one firmly.
Mrs. Paige listened intently to the court proceedings, the first one she had ever attended.
The Judge said seriously and yet with a tone of kindness in his voice, "Rinkler Shader how did are you?"
"I'll be thirteen the ninth of May."
"What does your father do?"
"He's a brakeman on the S.P."
"Does your mother work any place outside your home?
"My mother is dead, but Aunt Mattie keeps house."
"Rinkler, I want you to tell me just how you got the idea to steal the bicycle"
"Oh, I've wanted a wheel for a long time, and Trent Cage told me he could buy anything he wanted?'ed I thought it he's so rich he'd never miss the wheel."
The Judge raised his brows. "Remember, my boy, if you take anything that belongs to another whether he be rich or poor, that is stealing."
Turning to Miss Anson the Judge asked, 'Do you have any trouble with this boy in school?"
"No, I wouldn't call it trouble. Rinkler has his faults, I've never known him to lie or steal."
"Steven Paige, stand please," the Judge ordered.
Steven rose and faced the Judge with a confident, co-operative attitude.
After a few personal questions which the boy answered promptly, Judge Allen asked "How long before Trent lost his bicycle did you
know that Rinkler was going to steal it?"
"Oh, I didn't know he was going to steal it, but I knew he had wanted a wheel for a long time," Steven replied anxiously.
"When did you first know that he had stolen the wheel?" the Judge persisted.
"When I went with him to get it out of its hiding place, I thought something was wrong," Steven answered quietly.
"What did he promise you if you wouldn't tell where he got it?" the Judge suggested.
"I asked him where he got it, and he said, 'Never mind where I got it, we are going to have it for our own,' " Steven followed fearlessly.
"Don't you know that to use that wheel has been obtained dishonestly is next to stealing?" the Judge demanded almost fiercely.
"No, sir," Steven replied, amazed at the serious attitude of the Judge.
The Judge leaned back in his chair, "I think you boys are very ignorant of the difference between right and wrong, and, I want you to report to the probation officer every Friday afternoon at four o'clock, until he tells you that you are dismissed. Will you do that?" the Judge asked, addressing Steven.
"Yes, sir, we will be there every Friday afternoon at four o'clock," Steven affirmed, and Rink nodded his head in agreement.
"All right, boys, you are excused. Now, don't forget to come." Then addressing the court: "If there is nothing further, the court is dismissed." As he gathered up his papers, he noticed that Mrs. Paige and her son had left and he turned to speak to me?" he asked kindly. THE STRENGTH OF THE PACK 231 "Not now, thank you. I think I had better go home at once, though I may come and see you soon," she smiled gratefully. Rising resolutely she nodded to Miss Shader and Miss Anson, who were in close conversation, and left the room. QUTSIDE the air was stimulating. The sun was still shining, but it was blowing a little, and dark clouds were driving across the sky toward the east. Mrs. Paige hurried along, searching her mind for a clue that would develop into a workable plan whereby she might go on with her work and still keep the children busy at something useful. So deep was the trend of her thoughts that she was home before she knew it, but she had made her decision. Filled with energy and purpose she set the table, taking more pains than she had done since John's death. Steven rushed in all out of breath. "My, that's a scrumptious lunch. May I eat right now?" "Guess so, but where are the others? Didn't they get out when you did?" she asked apprehensively. "Yes, but I hurried. I have to get back and make up the work I missed this morning when I went to court," he replied seriously. At the mention of "court" Mrs. Paige's face took on a grave expression. "Shucks, Mother, don't be worried. Just because I was with Rink doesn't mean that I was stealing," Steven declared stoutly. "I'm glad it isn't any worse, but you know what the Judge said. You accepted the use of the bicycle when you felt it was not right for Rink to keep it," she replied, looking at him keenly. "Yes, but the Judge doesn't understand. I didn't know that was like stealing," Steven defended. "It's just this way, Steven, you can't have anything to do with wrongdoing without getting tainted. I tell you we've got to get hold of ourselves and understand each other. I want to help you all I can, but if you are not going to stand by me I'll have to give up," she said with finality. "Aw, Bus says your parents have to take care of you. He said his dad tried to run that bluff on him, but it wouldn't work," Steven divulged with bravado. Mrs. Paige was astonished to hear Steven repeat such remarks. "I don't care what Bus says. It's what you say that matters to me. What are you going to do?" "How can I help without any money?" he asked discouragedly. "Help! You have been helping all the time. How would I have managed if you hadn't taken Lorna down to Aunt Nell's every morning, and then come back in time to help Dwight and Ned off to school? If you'll do what I want you to do, we'll find a way to make money honestly, and we will be able to buy anything we need." = "What will we do?" Steven asked doubtfully. "I'm working on a plan which I think will be just what we want. When I get it worked out we are going to have a family home-meeting and discuss it. It just concerns our own family, so keep it a secret till we all decide what to do," she explained cheerily. "Oh, that will be swell," Steven beamed with enthusiasm. "Golly, look at the time! I'll have to go." Jane came in just as Steven was leaving. He didn't look at her, but she noticed how pale he looked. She sat down at the table silently, and began to unfold her paper napkin. Mrs. Paige brought two plate lunches to the table. "I waited to eat with you," she said as she moved up her chair. "I've at last awakened to my duty. When I realize how I've left the boys to their own thoughts and ways, Fm ashamed! We don't know who their friends are. It breaks my heart to think how I've shushed them when. They wanted to come in to play on a stormy night. From now on I want them to come inside and bring their friends, so I can know them and help them all to know right from wrong." "That will mean a lot of work and worry, goodness knows we have enough to do now," Jane reminded. "No, we can make it a pleasure and not a hardship if we manage it rightly," her mother answered confidently, and continued to elaborate on the necessity of knowing with whom the boys played. Jane thought, I simply can't understand what's changed mother; but she did not speak. She looked at her watch as she rose from the chair, "Oh, it's a quarter to one." "I'll go now, too," her mother decided, "I can leave the table just as it is. Steven knows what to do." The two women left the house together, but their minds were miles apart, the one lighthearted and carefree, the other carrying the responsibility of guiding a family into ways of righteousness. It had been Mrs. Paige's intention to sound Jane out as to what she thought could be done about conditions at home. "Oh I don't know. Mother, what would be best to do, but I'm willing to help in whatever you decide," Jane promised. As the girl went to her work, her mother reminded her, "We hold our first home-meeting tonight." Mrs. Paige walked on, she was amazed at the possibilities which kept coming to her mind. THAT very night, after supper, she told the children about her plan, and they were delighted with it and pledged to do all they could to make it a success. "Do you remember the story of the wolves, how they worked together?" their mother asked, her eyes glowing with enthusiasm. "Yes," Dwight answered, "all their leader needed to do was to give a loud howl and the wolves came racing through the forest, barking once in a while to let him know they were coming, and soon the whole pack would be there, ready to take orders." "Yes, that's just what they did. They seemed to live up to this rule, that 'the wolf is the strength of the pack and the pack is the strength of the wolf. We are going to be like that, we'll work together no matter what comes," she finished firmly. They all agreed on their officers. Steven was made president, his mother, vice president, Dwight was appointed secretary-treasurer, and Jane became the chairman of the THE STRENGTH OF THE PACK 233 ways and means committee with Ned and Lorna for helpers. "I think mother's plan for gardening is the best thing she could have thought out? Steven, as president, declared, after his mother had disclosed her plan. "Let's decide on what we'll plant right now." Mrs. Paige suggested that beans which could be sold, should occupy the greater part of the garden plot and that they should also raise plenty of other vegetables for home use. She agreed to pay the treasurer market prices for whatever she used in the kitchen. At the conclusion of the meeting Mrs. Paige called Lorna and whispered to her. Lorna, smiling happily, went into the kitchen cabinet and brought out a dish of mixed candy and nuts, which she passed to each member, while her mother instructed the boys on how to clean up the yard, and then told them she had already engaged a man for the next day to spread the fertilizer and help do the digging. As Mrs. Paige neared her home the next night, she knew by the sounds coming from the back yard that the boys were at work. Rink is there, too, I can hear him talking, she thought. She went around to the back and stood looking on. He was the first to spy her. "Don't you think we're doing a good job, Mrs. Paige?" he laughed, the perspiration running down his face. "You certainly are, but doesn't your aunt need you?" she replied a little coldly. "Oh, I've done my chores, and I thought I?d help Steve work on the yard, if you don't mind," he finished, fearing her disapproval. "Of course I don't mind. I think it's nice of you to want to help," she praised, and went into the house. As she removed her suit to put on her house dress, she could still see how his expression had changed when she had praised him a little. I just can't be mean to him, she decided. He is so anxious to please, and he has some good traits that I like, he tells the truth and he isn't lazy. I wish I could help him. His Aunt Mattie is too easygoing and his father is the kind of a man who never seems to realize how much a child needs guidance, she reflected. Rf4NE afternoon in July when Mrs. Paige came home, Steven was busy in the garden. He saw her coming and called happily, "Mother, come and see the garden. Did you ever see so many beans in all your life?" "I've never seen vines more heavily laden. We'll have to pick them soon, but we must be careful not to destroy the vines," she answered, remembering that there would be many pickings. The next evening Mrs. Paige returned to find that the beans had all been picked. "Oh, Steven, why did you do it before you had customers to buy them?" she reasoned. Steven looked crestfallen, "I never thought of that." Mrs. Paige bit her lip, "Well, the only thing we can do is to cover them up with wet cloths till morning." Early the next day, Dwight and Ned were sent out with samples of beans to try and find customers among the neighbors, but they had little success. 234 "Steven, you'll have to go farther, to the homes where they buy all their vegetables. The boys can never sell all these around here/' "Oh, I can't sell them, I don't want to go asking people to buy beans." Just then Rink came around the house. "Jiminy, what a lot of beans! Did you get all them out of your patch, Steve?" "Yes, and now he hates to go and sell them," Mrs. Paige interposed. "Come on, Steve, I'll go with you." Rink filled a small pail with beans and the two started off. They tried several places without selling any. Becoming discouraged they sat down by the roadside, wondering what to do. All at once Rink brightened, "There comes Chinese John! I'll bet he'll buy 'em. He told Aunt Mattie that all his beans got flooded out," Rick explained as he ran out into the road holding up the beans. "Hi, John you want to buy some beans? Only ten cents a pound." John drew on the reins. "Bleans! Yi, Yi, me bly bleans. Low M'lany?" "Forty pounds" Steven gladly spoke up. John turned his cart around and followed the boys home. Mrs. Paige was astonished when she saw Chinese John pass the window with two baskets over his shoulders, but she did not go out for she wanted Steven to manage the selling. Presently, Steven and Rink came in with four dollars and twenty cents, the price of forty-two pounds of beans, and Steven said with a business air, "Mother, give this to the treasurer when he comes." EARLY one warm forenoon in August, Mrs. Paige sat thinking, as she worked, of her experience during the summer. Everything was beginning to turn out according to her plan. It was true there had been some drawbacks, but she was satisfied with the results so far. One thing, especially, pleased her. She had been a help to the boys in her entire neighborhood, for the victory garden idea had spread, and nearly every child was busily and happily working in a garden. She was just rejoicing over the success of her example when Steven came in all out of breath, "Mother, Rink and Bus are going up East Canyon to fish and stay all night, let me go with them, please," he pleaded. "Oh, I wouldn't go if I were you. We are all going up there to stay a few days next week. The boys might go then as your guests. Let me see, today is probation day isn't it? Remember you musn't miss it," she admonished. "I don't want to go next week. I want to go now!" he replied, and dashed out of the house. Steven was not home at lunch time, but he had never, up to now, openly disobeyed her, so she trusted that he had not gone, and she went to work at one o'clock as usual. When she returned, Lorna came running to meet her as she did every night, "Mother, Steven's gone a-fishing with Rink and Bus," she confided. "He has!" Mrs. Paige exclaimed in surprise. She took hold of the child's hand with a deep sense of defeat. By evening there was still no THE STRENGTH OF THE PACK 235 word from Steven. His mother went about preparing the supper as if nothing unusual was on her mind, but she was troubled. Just as the family finished the dessert Steven came in with several fish threaded in the crotch of a willow bough. His mother exclaimed, "Well, here you are at last! Put the fish in that pan in the sink and come and eat now." The children were delighted with the fish, but their mother made no comment. Later in the evening Mrs. Paige sat alone reading. Steven came and stood at the back of her chair, "Mother, Fm awful sorry I went, but-" "Were you standing by the pack when you disobeyed me?" she asked with emphasis. "Let me tell you how it was," he pleaded humbly. "Now, don't tell me what Rink and Bus did. The idea of you doing what they wanted you to do. You ought to lead them, but you will never be a leader till you learn to make your own decisions," she interrupted. "It was this way," Steven continued, "I wanted to go so bad I felt that nothing else mattered, not even disobedience or my pledge to the pack. After we got there, though, I wasn't happy, and I begged Rink to come back with me in time to go and see Mr. Wooten. We were a little late, but I told him why, and he said, "You boys sure know how to keep a promise, and now I dismiss you from your obligation of reporting to me." "Oh, I?m so glad you persuaded Rink to go with you to see the probation officer. That's good leadership, Steven," she said proudly, "though-" "Mother, please forgive me, I?ll never disobey you again," he broke in, the tears flooding his eyes. "All right, I will forgive you. Now let's forget it," she replied earnestly. He leaned over, kissing her, and she returned his kiss fervently. Mrs. Paige sniffed and wiped her eyes. "You know it's your birthday Sunday, and I want you to invite Rink to dinner." "Oh, Mother, you are too good to me. I don't deserve it," he said though his brown eyes laughed with delight. Sunday, Mrs. Paige rose early to get the children off to Sunday School and to make preparations for the birthday dinner. The first thing she did after they had all gone was to frost the cake thick with white icing and write "Steven" in the center with yellow. Fourteen small, yellow candles adorned the edge, all ready to be lighted at the proper time. When the children came in at noon the table was set with the best silver and linen, with the cake as a centerpiece. Once they were all seated at the table, Mrs. Paige thought it was one of the happiest moments of her life. Rink, looking like a Rhode Island red rooster with his auburn hair combed sleek, smiled from ear to ear. After the dinner was over, Dwight and Ned slipped out of the room, and soon the two boys came in rolling a bicycle. Steven gasped in surprise, he had not expected a present. A card attached to the handle bar read: "To Steven?The wolf is the strength of the pack?and the pack is the strength of the wolf."