[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | January | Issue: 14 | Title: WORK FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR. | Author: Unknown]

WORK FOR THE WORLD’S FAIR.

	The Bureau of Applied Arts for the Wo-
man’s Department of the World’s Fair has
been placed in charge of Mrs. Candace
Wheeler for New York State. It includes:
applied and decorative painting; stained
glass and glass mosaics; modeling and
plastic ornament; wood-carving, inlaid and
gilded woods; designing and construction
of furniture wall hangings; modem tex-
tiles needle-wrought tapestries and em-
broideries; gold and silver work; pottery
and porcelains; book-covers and book-
binding, etc. The chairman of the Indus-
trial Department for the State is Miss Anna
Roosevelt. This committee desires infor-
mation in regard to the number of wage-
earners or self-supporting women; also
those employed in factories, shops and of-
fices; owning and controlling farms; en-
gaged in mining; in horticulture and flori-
culture; in the professions; in domestic ser-
vice as authors; as teachers; in art-work
and designing; in literary work, or in other
lines.
	National labor statistics should furnish
better data for this work than could be ob-
tained from private and individual sources.
But the data concerning organizations and
societies of women have been added to the
work of the National Industrial Department
by the national board, and its chairman,
Mrs. Helen M. Barker, receives and desires
information respecting name, age, object,
officers, membership, source of income, ex-
penditures.
	The Woman’s Dormitory Association, of
which Mrs. Matilda B. Case, of Chicago, is
president, addresses itself to all single and
self-supporting women. Ten dollars buys
a share which will be taken at any dormi-
tory of the association in payment for lodg-
ing bills. Two persons may use at one time
a single share. These shares will be trans-
ferable, and if the face value is not used by
the holder during her stay, it can be made
over to another, who can use the balance.
After the ten dollars has been used, the
share still stands on the books, credited to
the holder, and she will be entitled to her
pro rata share of the profits, if a surplus
remains after the enterprise is closed. The
rate per day will not exceed forty cents to
stockholders. Each person must engage
her room at least one month before coming,
in order to be sure of accommodation at
that time, and in making application for
stock must state what month and what part
of that month she desires to make use of it.
	The New York State board of women
managers have arranged for an exhibit of
the kitchen garden system at the World’s
Fair. This system was founded by Miss
Emily Huntington at the Wilson Industrial
School, 125, St. Mark’s Place, New York
City, a few years ago, and is in operation
at the present time all over this country.
By its means little children are taught how
to do all kinds of housework, from washing
dishes to dusting a room and making beds,
and this teaching goes on to the accompani-
ment of appropriate songs, so that it is like
play.
	The exhibit will be made in the Children’s
Building, where not only all the furnishings
and paraphernalia of a kitchen garden will
be shown, but where at stated hours the
children themselves will go through the ex-
ercises and thus make a practical exhibit.
It is probable that about once a week there
will be an exhibition of two hundred child-
ren on the floor at one time.


Miss Emily Huntington has consented
to superintend the work herself, and it is
believed that this will be one of the most in-
teresting exhibits organized by women.
	The model kitchen and cooking-school
exhibit, which is also to be carried on un-
der the auspices of the New York State
board of women managers, will prove very
attractive. Cooking is looked upon now
almost as a fine art, and the cooking-school
has become one of the recognized branches
in educational institutions. Miss Juliet
Corson, the originator of the cooking-school,
has tendered her services to the board of wo-
men managers free of charge, and once or
twice a day will give a lecture with practi-
cal demonstrations. This exhibit will be
made in the Woman’s Building.
	These are the two exhibits to which the
women managers of New York have given
their greatest energy up to the present time,
but they are organizing several loan exhibits
which will not only be of great intrinsic
value, but will form a means of education
to workers in the different branches of art
which they represent.
	While there is no definite scheme for a
philanthropic exhibit as yet, it is believed
that a few of the most prominent organiz-
ations will be memorialized in a way to in-
terest sight-seers and do credit to the founders
of the institutions.
	The reports from the various judicial dis-
tricts throughout the State are most en-
couraging. The women managers have
organized sub-committees in nearly all the
counties, and while there are not always
tangible results in the shape of applications
for women’s exhibits, interest is awakened
and there is a local pride shown to bring out
everything that women have done worthy
of being recorded.
	The members of the sub-committee en-
deavor first to obtain the co-operation of the
editors of local papers, for through them
knowledge of the workings of the commit-
tees and of the share women are to have in
the Exposition is best disseminated.—The
New Cycle.


[Column 1]
