BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	It reminds me of a time in my father's early
history, previous to his hearing of "Mormon-
ism." It was in 1823 when he received the three
first degrees of Masonry in the lodge at Victor
Flats, Ontario Co., New York, and in 1824,
previous to receiving all of the rights up to the
Royal Arch Masons, the Morgan affair broke
out and the Masonic Hall in Canandaigua
was burned by anti-Masons, and all their re-
cords consumed. It seems that the Masons
were persecuted and the same unjust proceed-
ings were heaped upon them by the anti-Ma-
sons that have been upon those who hold the
Priesthood. "Not as many as three of us,"
father says, "could meet together. unless in se-
cret, without being mobbed. I have been
driven from my houses and possessions with
many of my brethren belonging to that fra-
ternity five times, by mobs led by some of
their leading men.	*	*	*	I have
been as true as an angel from the heavens to
the covenants I made in the lodge at Victor.
*	*	I wish that all men were Masons
and would live up to their profession, then the
world would be in a much better state than it
is now." The Prophet Joseph after becoming
a Mason said that Masonry had been taken
from the Priesthood. In Nauvoo I was ac-
quainted with the widow and daughter of Mor-
gan who exposed Masonry. I remember once,
when but a young girl, of getting a glimpse of
the outside of the Morgan's book, exposing
Masonry, but which my father always kept
locked up. Now if men should be true to Ma-
sonry and hold sacred their covenants to that
or any other fraternity, why in the name of
conscience should not our covenants to the
Great Master Mason be held as sacred? Yes,
and more binding and the greater should be
our obligations. At all events we intend to
prove true to our integrity and hold to the
sacred covenants and institutions which we
know have been established by the Almighty,
and are calculated to put mankind in posses-
sion of the means of salvation, temporal as
well as spiritual, and to bring us into our pro-
per sphere and relationship to God our Hea-
venly Father, and which has given to women
as well as men the true key that can unlock
the mysteries of the eternal worlds—bringing
back to our recollection those glorious things
which we lost remembrance of in coming down
to this dark world as wanderers in the paths
of darkness, ignorance and degradation. It
teaches ns to be virtuous, honest and upright—
to subdue and bring into subjection our fallen
natures, and requires us to put away our vani-
ties and not indulge in any thing which is low
or that would be offensive to God or the celes-
tial beings. These things were taught to ns in
that Holy Sanctuary, and ought to be riveted
upon our minds and upon those of our child-
ren, so as to be remembered and lived up to
in all coming life: And though we have come
far short of living what we profess, still we hope
to do so in time. But if because of the faith
and integrity of our hearts we are to be perse-
cuted and threatened—innocent women impris-
oned and the liberty and lives of an honest
and God-fearing people to be jeopardized be-
cause they are determined to be true to their
covenants, obedient to His commands; we want
them (who are the enemies of God) to know
and understand that we shall continue to
throw ourselves upon His mercy instead of
theirs—into the hands of men who have long
since proven themselves to be liars and trai-
tors, not only to their couutry, but to them-
selves and to their God; whom we know to be
doubly dyed in the darkest pools of filth and

[Column 2]
corruption; and we wish them to understand
that it will take more prisons and fetters than
they can provide to bind the souls of men, or
even to make of a Latter-day Saint a coven-
ant breaker—to deny or give up one of the
principles of our holy religion, the celestial
order of marriage not excepted, and every
attack made upon us only increases our faith
and determination to stand firm to the end,
come life or come death.
	Saturday, December 20, 1845, father wrote,
"President Young having slept in the Temple
last night was early at his post and dictating
in relation to the business of the day and ar-
ranging the workmen in order, etc., after
which he listened to a reading from Captain
Freemont's journal by Franklin D. Richards.
*	*	*	*	*	The morning was a very
beautiful one—the sun shining clear and
bright through the east windows of the room
in which the party were assembled.	*	*
The reading was finished at ten o'clock, at
which time Miss Eliza R. Snow handed in a
list of the females washed this morning, which
list she has taken for several days past. At
seventeen minutes past nine a.m. we com-
menced washing in the male department.	*	*
	"President Young left the Temple about
half past four o'clock to be absent for the
night.
	"At five o'clock a meeting was held in my
room.	*	*	We offered up thanks to
God and asked for the health of Bishop Whit-
ney's youngest child, also for mine, and that
God would turn away the wrath of this gov-
ernment from us and overrule things for
good."
	My mother's three youngest, David, Charles
and Brigham had been suffering from the
whooping cough for a month or more previous
to this, and continued to all winter. Her
babe and Bishop Whitney's were dangerously
sick with it when we were compelled to leave
Nauvoo in the month of February, 1846.
	"Sunday, December 21st," writes his clerk,
"According to appointment on Sunday last a
meeting was held in the east room.	*	*
Seventy-five persons were present, Elder H. C.
Kimball presiding." After mentioning the
names of the brethren and sisters, he says,
"At five minutes before eleven the song,
"Glorious things of thee are spoken" was
sung—Father John Smith then made a few re-
marks—blessed the bread and it was handed
round by Bishop George Miller—The wine
was blessed by Bishop Miller and handed
round by him. While the wine was passing
around Elder George A. Smith arose and ad-
dressed the congregation. He thanked God
for the privileges this day enjoyed, and spoke
of the difficulties under which the church had
labored to attain to the blessings we now en-
joy. Another thing he thanked God for—
Already had more than five hundred persons
passed through, and therefore, if half of them
should be like the foolish virgins and turn
away from the truth, the principles of the
Holy Priesthood would be beyond the reach
of mobs and the assaults of the adversaries of
this Church. Order was one of the laws of
heaven. When we come together	*	*
and unite our hearts and act as one mind, the
Lord will hear us and will answer our prayers.
He related an instance of some children being
healed and cured of the whooping cough in one
night through the prayers of himself and Elder
Woodruff in Michigan, while they were there
on a mission. Said that whenever they could
get an opportunity they retired to the wilder-
ness or to an upper room, they did so	*	*	*
and were always answered. It would be a
good thing for us	*	*	every day and pray
to God and in private circles.	*	*	*
We are different from what we were before we
entered into this quorum,—Speedy vengeance
will now overtake the transgressor. When a

[Column 3]
man and wife are united in feeling, and act in
union, I believe that they can hold their child-
ren by prayer and faith, and will not be ob-
liged to give them up to death until they are
fourscore years old. Sometimes men trifle and
destroy the confidence which each ought to have
in the other, this prevents a union of faith and
feeling. The apostacy of Thos. B. Marsh was
caused by so small a thing as a pint of strip-
pings—and his oaths bronght the exterminat-
ing order which drove us all out of Missouri.
	"The woman ought to be in subjection to
the man—be careful to guard against loud
laughter—against levity and talebearing. He
expressed his unfeigned love for the brethren
and his confidence in their endeavors to keep
these rules. "The Spirit of God" was then
sung. Elder Kimball next addressed the
meeting. He concurred in all that had been
said, the observation of these things is most
essential. About four years ago next May
nine persons were admitted into the Holy or-
der—five are now living, B. Young, W. Rich-
ards, George Miller, N. K. Whitney and H. C.
Kimball, two are dead, and two are worse than
dead. You have not got all you will have if
you are faithful. He spoke of the necessity
of women being in subjection to their hus-
bands, "I am subject to my God, my wife is
subject to me and will reverence me in my
place, and I will try to make her happy. I
do not want her to step forward and dictate to
me any more than I dictate to President
Young. In his absence I take his place ac-
cording to his request. Shall we cease from
loud laughter?	*	*	Will you never
slander your brother and sister? I will refer
your minds to the covenants you have made,
by an observance of these things you will
have dreams and visions.	*	*	*
We shall not be with you long. We cannot
rest day nor night until we put you in posses-
sion of the Priesthood.	*	*	If we
have made you clean every whit, go now to
work and make others clean."	*	*
There are from seven to twelve persons who
have met together every day to pray ever
since Joseph's death, and the people have been
sustained upon this principle. Here is Brother
Turley has been liberated by the power of
God and not of man.
	"Elder Cahoon bore testimony of the impor-
tance of those things which had been spoken,
and rejoiced in the idea that the things he was
taught in the beginning were the same things
now taught and remembered, and it is so be-
cause they are eternal things.
	The assembly was then formed for prayer,
and Elder John Taylor being mouth the whole
congregation united with him in prayer.	*	*
At ten minutes past two the meeting was dis-
missed and another congregation met in the
same room.
	"At three o'clock sand "Hosanna"—prayer
by Orson Hyde, after which by invitation of
Elder Kimball who presided (President
Young not having been at the Temple to-day,
and the duty of presiding having devolved
upon Elder Kimball as the next in successiou)
Amasa Lyman addressed the assembly, he
said, "Doubtless with most of the present as-
sembly it is the beginning of a new era in
their lives—they have come to a time they
never saw before—they have come to the com-
mencement of a knowledge of things, and it is
necessary that they should be riveted on
their minds. One important thing to be un-
derstood is this, that those portions of the
priesthood which you have received are all es-
sential matters.

To be Continued.


Do not wait for extraordinary opportunities
for good actions, but make use of common
situations. A long walk is better than a short
fight.—Goethe.


