MUSIC.

	Reader, when you breathe even this word,
has it not a pleasing sound? Does it not pene-
trate the recesses of your heart and strike ten-
der chords, whose vibrations have cheerful
echoes? Favorably impressed with the word, 
let us peer into the nature and effects of the
art. Nestled close in the heart of every hu-
man being we find an appreciation of music;
in some clearly defined, in others awakened
only by peculiar circumstances, and on rare
occasions. Who has not been relieved by 
hearing the emotions of the heart portrayed 
by strains of music, in whose supernatural
charms we find power to soothe the aching

[Column 2]
heart, of assuaging sorrow, and even calming 
the aroused passions of the brute. 
	Go with me to the uncomely wigwam, or
battle ground of the uncouth savage, what
do we find? Music—employed and regarded
by those illiterate, benighted people as it is by 
our Christian world. Those rude, ungainly
instruments do their part, (as did the minia-
ture, ridiculed spy-glass of Galileo) urging the
warrior's faith; permeating through every vein
vim and courage; and like a stimulant reviv-
ing his exhausted form, cheering him on, on
to victory! Pass from this scene and note
the disconsolate mother leaning over her dar-
ling babe, whose fragile form (not prepared to 
encounter the chilling blasts of this cold
world) is fast yielding its mortal part to earth;
how pained and set her features, as she reluct-
anly yeilds her treasure, amd painfully 
watches its gentle spirit ebb with each fleeting 
moment; suddenly a heavenly strain of music
is wafted through the open window-- mark
 that change of countenance! those features 
seem calmed by the holy mystery of those 
sounds; something whispers that her rose-bud is
welcomed by seraphs; she is seemingly permit-
ted to peep into the horoscope of the future,
and in  doing so is assured that the chain now
severed will ere long be welded forever; that a
reunion will eventually come when mother 
and child, clasped in one long affectionate em-
brace, will enjoy unalloyed bliss in that world 
eternal where music dwells supreme.
	Music is not an art of recent development,
but has taken an important part in the graat
"drama of life" from the beginning. Our earth
launhed from the hands of its Creator had
accompanying phenomena, which in their var-
ied tones produce music.   Hark! the elements 
combine even while I write, and  proclaim in 
deep, fearful, roaring thunder, 'tis true. How
infinitely grand are those bass notes, telling in
their monotonous rumble of a greater, mightier
power than mortals can conceive! Is this not
music in its grandest, most perfect form? For
a moment we are now lost in the depths of a 
thickly wooded forest; how mournfully the
wind howls through the branches, natures own
harps; listlessly moaning, then suddenly burst-
ing into a violent passion of mingled grief and
sighs, and dying away into a pathetic requiem.
Those minor chords! What a seraphic tremor
in the human heart they cause!
	In fancy now we are seated by the choerful
peat fire of the fisherman; the gentle rain is
pattering on the roof, which, with the interve-
ning crackling of the embers, drums a lively
tune; a lull in the chat; the drops come faster;
through the windows the pale moon is seenoc-
casionally peeping from behind a dark Nimbus,
then hurrying on, seemingly driven from her 
path by the huge black clouds, far in the dis-
tance comes the sound of waves, one after an-
other; alternately roaring, moaning and dying;
now voluminous, now scarcely audible; swell-
ing and receding like the beautiful tones of a 
diatonic scale. "The voice of the Great Crea-
ter speaks in those mighty tones."
	Returning now on our imaginative tour, rich,
plaintive tones, issuing froma ssanctified altar
of worship, 'round which penitents are kneel-
ing and offering thanksgiving, fall upon our 
ears. Soul-inspired-- vent is given to their feel-
ings by means of singing, and involuntarily
praises are sent to their maker. In such wor-
shhip find we not a solace for all our cares? In 
the house of God where music abides we un-
consciously enjoy elysium, and in a dreamy 
reverie, picture ourselves shut out from this
cold world and its cares by a halo of peace,
typical of Eden's atmosphere.
					JENNIE HARRIS.
	Mesa City, Arizona, May 23rd, 1883.


Virtue is a rough way, but proves at night a
bed of down.—Wotten.


