A DELIGHTFUL PRIMARY.

	On Monday, July 9th, I was invited by Sister
Davis, President of the Primary of the Twenty-
first Ward, to be present at their annual meet-
ing, nothing preventing, I did myself the pleas-
ure of attending the same. Sisters Horne, Felt,
Toone and others were also present. There
was a fine assemblage of healthy, intelligent
and well behaved children ready to receive us;
the children opened by singing, and recitations,
dialogues, songs, and indeed all their perform-
ances were, I may say perfect, for scarcely any
prompting was needed, even little children of
three and four years of age recited without any
assistance, both boys and girls; it was really
wonderful. I do not like to particularize where
all was good, but I must name Eva Barfoot,
who exhibited decided talent in reciting; she has
the right ring in her voice, and her gestures were 
gentle and expressive; all the children did cred-
it to their teachers—and also to their mothers—


for "home tuition" was palpably visible among
them; they were promt to the call from the pro-
gramme, and any one could see it was natural
for them to be orderly and obedient; they all
seemed happy and to richly enjoy the meeting,
their sparkling eyes speaking their enjoyment. 
They were asked questions, which they prompt-
ly answered, evidently they were "at home" in 
the whole affair.
	When the programme was through Sister Felt
was called upon to address the children, which
she did in a most admirable, sweet, loving man-
ner, all her words giving edification and encour-
agement. This lady is especially qualified by na-
ture to be a teacher of children, she has the
winning tact that fascinates them, and her
teachings are full of practical common sense
principles, she is truly "a Mother in Israel."
	Sister Horne was then called upon; her teach-
ings are well known for their adaptability to all
whom she may address. Her work has been
long and able, and I trust length of days are 
stiil before her to continue the same labor of
love.
	I had nothing to do but to endorse all that
had indeed been the language of my own heart,
which I did in a few words. These primaries
are certainly the finest schools for our young
children, it seems to me to be a wide field in
which the seeds of progression and eternal life
may be freely sown, and that the produce must
be a hundred fold. Every heart in that meet-
ing seemed to be full of joy, and when we 
parted all seemed to feel it had indeed done us
good to be there. God bless the presidents and
all associated with the primaries, for it is a 
goodly work; God bless the parents of the child-
ren that compose them that they may realize
what a blessing such associations confer upon
their children, that they may ever urge upon
them to be punctual in their attendance, and
shew forth as beautiful a picture as we beheld
in the Twenty-first Ward last Monday. No 
where can that Scripture be more appropriately
fulfilled and realized: "Cast thy bread upon the
waters, and thou shalt find it after many days." 
	HANNAH T. KING.
	17th Ward, Salt Lake City.


