BELLE HARRIS' CASE.

	While this persecuted lady remains as a
prisoner without law or justice, we do not
think any reasonable person will consider it
out of order to speak in defence of the right.
Whether intended or not, the action of the
courts in this case aims a blow at the rights of
every woman in all Christian countries. With
this view, (which is a correct one) every right
minded woman in the nation should raise her
voice or wield the pen in the defence of a lady
who is a living martyr to the rights of women.
Ladies, listen! A virtuous, high-minded lady
is imprisoned for declining to answer an imper-
tinent lawyer whether she is married or single.
Let all mothers ask themselves whether they
would not think (if women have any rights)
that their daughters might be allowed to de-
cline divulging their social status without a
fine and indefinite imprisonment being im-
posed upon them. We presume the attorney
thought he could Paul Pry some from information
Miss Harris on the subject of her former
rumored polygamous relations, but this is only
supposition, as no such question has been
named, before the grand jury. The law sup-
poses nothing; with the same propriety might
a neighboring attorney ask one of our eastern
ladies whether she ever had any words with
her husband, if so, when and where? This is
no exaggeration of the case, nor does it do jus-
tice to our much injured heroine advocate of
the rights of our sex. From what we have
heard of the case, it Miss Harris had aught
but the cause of women at stake she might
have readily found an excuse to gratify the in-
quisitive attorney. Her ancestors for several
generations were highly respected American
citizens, and Miss Belle would suffer any sacri-


fice rather than bring disgrace upon her noble
sires who spent blood and treasure rather than
submit a to lighter yoke than she now wears, for
universal freedom, and especially for the eman-
cipation of women from the oppressive hand
of the legal (?) lords of creation. If noble,
high-minded men cannot alone break the foul
tyrant's rod. let the daughters of Eve stand in
the place designed by the Great Creator and
show themselves willing helpmeets, especially
when he takes the lead in the warfaae for the
elevation of women to her rightful position by
his side.
	In conclusion I ask American ladies every-
where (and especially those of my own native
State) to let their voices be heard and their
pens wielded in the defence of true and correct
principles of woman's emancipation, irrespec-
tive of condition, sect, or former station.
			Most respectfully,
