BY HANNAH T. KING.

	On the sixth inst., the Y. L. M. I. Society
was held in Sister Julia Howe's parlor, which
she kindly and politely places at the disposal
of the young ladies for that purpose.
	On that day Dr. Shipp had kindly acceded
to a proposition that she should lecture for the
young sisters' instruction, and about three
o'clock the room was filled; the invitation had
been general to all who desired to attend.
Meeting was opened with the usual prelimi-
naries, singing, prayer and the reading of the
minutes etc.; and I felt there was a sweet waiting
spirit in the room—at this moment Dr. Shipp
arrived, she had been engaged with a patient,
which detained her a short time, and I was
sorry to see she had been hurried, and was
flushed with the haste she had made to be punc-
tual; but a few moments sufficed to regain all
her wonted self possession, which, in her pro-
fessional duties, is a remarkable feature. I feel
I must here say a few words in description of
this lady physician, and I confess to some
favoritism in regard to her, but still, in all I
shall say I shall only be just. I have a keen
eye to all that is admirable in the human face
or form, in gesture or expression, and certainly
in manners. Sister Shipp is formed by nature
to elaborate her profession, and of course edu-
cation has assisted in this grand essential. Let
me here say, I trust she will pardon this little
loving freedom, if she thinks it needs it, when
I assure her my heart dictates my words, and
that truth and rich appreciation inspires them.
By this prelude I introduce Dr. Ellis Shipp
upon the tapis.
	In form and feature she is a living model of
her teachings, the former being as free as na-
ture made it, and denotes a perfectly healthy
organism; yes—an athlete of the refined, elas-
tic mould; her head is well placed, and its form
denotes equilibrium of temperament and
character; the features are purely womanly;
the eye in itself a study, denoting sensitiveness,
refinement and purity; yet with all there is
much force and quiet dignity in that character,
and great power of concentration. Though
she came from a sick chamber, and evidently
had hurried to keep her appointment, and was
heated with her walk and carrying her charts;
it took but a few moments for her to regain
her usual placid manner, and at once com-
menced her lecture, which she gave with the
calm dignity of one who fully realized the
grand importance of her subject, and that she
was expiating on the wonderful and mysterious
works of the Great Creator, exhibited in the
human organism; the care and preservation of
which she desired to impress upon her
hearers; was a grand responsibility laid upon

[Column 2]
the possessor; to arouse this knowledge and ap-
preciation, was the motive-power of her lecture;
and I felt that the youthful portion of her au-
dience must have received many a startling
idea, to which they had before been strangers—
their intense silence during the whole lecture
denoted their great interest, and called forth
from the lecturer warm enconiums. I feel
much impressed with the necessity of such lec-
tures to the young, and indeed to all ages; for
how much sorrow and sickness, pain, and often
death has been caused by sheer ignorance of
the science of life in young people of both
sexes. Surely our boys need teaching in this
august science equally with our girls! yet how
little appears to be thought of educating and
cultivating this wonderful, this beautiful struc-
ture that composes the human organism. How
often do the sublime words of the Psalmist oc-
cur to me: "We are fearfully and wonderfully
made." It appears to me that the whole range
of natural history would greatly assist in blot-
ting out the present fashionable, but deadly
theory of infidelity; such a study speaks
trumpet-tongued to every honest, intelligent
soul, of a Divine Creator; and when we see such
intense study has been bestowed upon the mor-
tal part, what may we not imagine of the
glory—the surpassing glory of the immortal soul
that inhabits it! well may every thinking mind
realize the fact that, our noblest study is the
study of ourselves; "Know thyself," was the
injunction of a wise, Greek philosopher, and
thre are volumes in those two small words!
Yes indeed, and that study should be especially
incorporated in the scholastic routine of every
boy and girl, and maturer minds would do well
to make themselves acquainted with the science
of life; that they might instruct the younger.
Who is so competent as a parent to lay—at any,
rate the rudiments of such a science before their
children, that they may grow up wise and pure,
strong and healthy.
	What fortunes are spent in training, culti-
vating and improving our noblest animals,
while being, made in the image of God, is
left to blind chance, without a thought beyond
feeding and clothing—the precious mind also,
left to grow like an unweeded garden; surely,
surely there must be a day of reckoning for
such unpardonable apathy, or thoughtless ig-
norance. "Oh daughters of Zion awake from
thy slumbers"—Oh! mothers in Zion write up-
on your memories as with a pen of iron, that
your children will transmit these organizations
they are now forming, even to coming genera-
tions; if feeble, meagre and unhealthy, frail or
deformed, so will they be transmitted. Will
you not desire to look forward to a noble lin-
eage, that shall then show forth a type of their
divine origin? Remember their bodies are the
habitation of an immortal spirit! surely as Lat-
ter-day Saints, with our light and knowledge,
we ought to lay these thoughts to our hearts—or
we had better have remained in the world
where the body at any rate is watched over
with especial care, that it may develop favor-
ably.
	God bless our teachers, in whatever shape or
form they come! God bless our lecturers, that
lay before us the laws of life and health and
longevity, all of which are incomparably above
the dross of gold and silver, fine clothes, or
handsome houses—for they bestow a heritage
that the possessor will be grateful for in all
coming time, and carry through the countless
ages of eternity. Such indeed compose the
germs of the immortal being, and should there-
fore be the daily lesson of daily life, to aid and
assist in a glorious development.


God often works more by the life of the
illiterate, seeking the things which are His,
than by the ability of the learned, seeking the
things that are their own.—Ans[---].


