A STRONG TESTIMONY.

	St. Mark Chapter 16, verses xvii and xviii,
"And these signs shall follow them that believe;
in my name they shall cast out devils; they
shall speak with new tongues:
	"They shall take up serpents; and if they
drink any deadly thing it shall not hurt them;
they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall
recover.,'


In the year 1840 and 1841, the Elders of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
visited the little town of Grafton, Lorain Co.,
Ohio, and there they raised up a small branch,
consisting of sixteen members. In the summer
of 1841 this branch of the Church held their
meetings in a building that was used on week
days as a carpenter's shop, and consequently
was open most of the time having no lock or
key.
	On Sunday, towards the latter part of the
summer of 1841, the teacher fetched the sacra-
ment as usual, bread and wine; (the wine being
his own make from elderberries) he left the
bread and wine in a basket under one of the
work benches while he went to dinner.
	In the afternoon sixteen persons partook of
the same; when he returned home he took the
decanter containing the wine out of the basket,
and unthinking held it up between him and the
sun when he discovered quite a quantity of sed-
iment in it. This astonished him very much,
for when he put the wine into the decanter it
was perfectly clear. He said nothing about it to
any one, but the next day he took it to a chem-
ist and had it analyzed, it was found to contain
about an ounce of arsenic. And sixteen per-
sons drank of that poisoned wine, the writer of
this sketch among the rest, and not one re-
ceived any injury. Thus we saw and realized
the fulfillment of the promise, "if you drink
any deadly thing it shall not hurt you." But 
the offending party thought the joke too good to
keep. In about three months after a very wick-
ed young man in the town said the "Mor-
mons" could not be killed for he had tried it,
said he, "I put an ounce of arsenic in their
sacramental wine and they partook of it and it
did them no harm." His name was Dhru John-
son. In about four months after this circum-
stance transpired he quarreled with a man in
a ballroom and was stabbed and killed.
	Most of the witnesses of this incident are now
dead, one did live in Parowan a short time ago
and one lives now in Brigham City, Arizona.
	It has been impressed upon my mind for some
time to send the foregoing incident of history as
it seems as if all such items should be put upon
record. JOANNA C. TEEPLES.
	Holden, June 15th, 1883.


