THE DESERET HOSPITAL.

	This Institution has now completed its first
year; and as it enters upon its second, we wish
it to be better understood than has been appar-
ent.
	With the approval of the First Presidency, we
commenced the Hospital, as no women on earth
except those of the Latterday Saints would have
undertaken so gigantic an enterprise, i. e. with
nothing. But we had faith in the support and
liberality of our brethren and sisters: and thus
far we have succeeded beyond our most san-
guine expectations. Many afflicted ones during
the past year, through the blessings of God on
our Hospital efforts and skill, have been re-
lieved of suffering which otherwise, probably, 
would have continued through life.
	It is very natural that in consequence of the re-
ceipt of many and frequent donations from vari-
oussources, that some persons should have im-
bibed the idea that the Deseret Hospital is con-
ducted as a charitable institution where patients
can be treated free of charge. We wish to disa-
buse the minds of those who have adopted this
erroneous conclusion.
	The Hospital is truly a benevolent institu-﻿
tion, but not a charitable one. Our sympathies
often prompt the wish that it could be such, but 
under existing circumstances it is an impossibil-
ity. Our sympathies prompt us to appropriate
much care, time and labor to furnishing and
conducting, etc., etc. (not one of the officers
and members of the Board of Directors has re-
ceived one cent for time and services rendered.)
	No person, not immediately engaged in it,
can form any correct estimate of the great ex-
pense of fitting up and furnishing the building,
and the constant outlay in providing for it, with
sixty dollars per month rent, besides full wages
to those who labor in the Hospital.
	The people have contributed generously, for
which we are truly grateful, and realizing that
the means bestowed is not our own, we use it as 
economically as circumstances will admit.
But withal, we do not propose to beg to meet
the expenses of invalids who come for treat-
ment. That devolves on the Organizations,
Bishops and County Officers of the Wards,
towns and counties of which the patients are 
residents.
	Every person, to obtain the benefits of the
Hospital, must present to the matron a Permit
signed by Mrs. E. B. Wells, the Secretary of
the Deseret Hospital Association. The Secre-
tary will require from those who are unable to
pay their expenses, a writing signed by a res-
ponsible person, or persons, that shall be a suf-
ficient guarantee for payment of Hospital fees.
Those who can pay will be received on their
own responsibility by giving satisfactory assur-
ances to the Secretary and obtaining a Permit. 
	We wish it definitely understood that cases of 
sudden injuries are exempt from the above re-
quirements.
	E. R. SNOW SMITH, President D. H. A.
In behalf of the Deseret Hospital Association.
	Salt Lake City, July, 1883.


