							SELECTED.


[Column One]
	A VENERABLE WOMAN.
PRESEMDIA LATHROP KIMBALL
		  [Continued.]
	It is impossible to give anything like an ac-
count of the sufferings and trials of the peo-
ple during their stay in Winter Quarters, and
had it not been for the faith and the determina-
tion to serve God, and to persevere in well
doing, thousands would have sunk under the
heavy burdens and afflictions. But the grace
of God sustained them, and they trusted Him
implicitly. Sister Presendia herself had many
spiritual manifestations, and especialy during
the winter of 1847, after the return of the
pioneers from the Salt Lake Valley. Many
things were shown to Sister Presendia, and al-
most as it were the heavens opened to view, for
her comfort and consolation in the time of her
great sorrow and sacrifice. These were sacred
things, given her for her own benefit, and to
show her what the future would be if she main-
tained her integrity to the cause she had es-
poused.
	Sister Presendia has frequently remarked,
that she was never so thankful for anything
in her life as for the manifestations she received
in those trying times at Winter Quarters; for
it hadkept her from yielding to temptations, to
doubt and murmur,and had supported and given
her courage in the darkest hours of her lonely
widowhood. When sorrows of various kinds
had pressed heavily, and her cup seemed to be
running over with bitterness, she could recall
to mind what had been shown her in vision,
and the promises made to her if she proved
faithful and true.
	Early in the Spring of 1848 a few of the 
Mormon Battalion found their way back to
Winter Quarters, on the Missouri River,
where they had left their families when they
were called to go to Mexico. They returned
almost literally starved; having undertaken to
cross the desert with pack mules, and be-
ing overtaken with storms and often losing
their way, lying at night on the ground beside
their mules; they persevered while their provis-
ions held ont, but when their store was ex-
hausted, they first cut up their saddles and
cooked the rawhide, then one by one the ani-
mals that had been so faithful and carried 
them so far, had to be sacrificed to appease the
pangs of hunger, and keep life in their bodies.

[Column 2]
Sister Presendia says she can never forget the
sight these brethren presented when they ar-
rived at Winter Quarters, ragged, barefooted,
their feet bleeding and torn, they seemed more
dead than alive, and looked very like Mohe-
gans, so rough and uncanny. They had to be
nursed and fed with the greatest care they had
been so long without food. One of these men
was Edward Martin, who died, in this city,
about a year ago. The others Mr. John Tib-
bets and Thomas Woolsey. Sister Presendia was
much affected by this circumstance, and al-
ways looked upon it as a miracle, their being
preserved to cross over such a wilderness in
the dead of winter, and find their way without
guide or compass.
	In May of the same year, Brigham Young,
Heber C. Kimball, Willard Richards and other
leading men of the Church, started enroute for
the valley, each of these brethren in charge of
a large company of Saints. Sister Presendia
and her little son Oliver left Winter Quarters
on the 6th of May. Her son George had not
followed her according to promise. Many
women had to drive their own team, yoke and
unyoke their cattle, milk their cows, if they had
any, and cook over the camp fires; the hard-
ships incident to a journey of this kind are
calculated to bring out all the weak points of
character, and to prove the integrity of the in-
dividual to the cause in which he may be en-
listed. Everyone who has crossed the plains
over the sand ridges, through the sage brush,
encountering Indians, buffaloes,wolves, etc., etc.
will, I am sure, bear me out in the assertion I
have made. Sister Presendia, like many others,
had much to endure, and drove her own team,
part of the way though in delicate health, and
sometimes unable to sit up; her cares and labors
were varied and numerous, but she enjoyed the
spirit of her religion, and was happy in feeling
that she was about to reach a place of refuge,
where the Saints could worship God according
to the dictates of their own consciences. She
however arrived here on the 22nd of Septem-
ber, and settled down to home life in the Old
Fort. January 6th, 1848, Sister Presendia
was confined with a daughter. The little one
was named Presendia Celestia, and was a very
bright and handsome child. The baby was a
great comfort to the lonely mother, who had
left her home and come thousands of miles
away. She grew to be very beautiful and in-
telligent and attractive. No daughter was
ever more fondly loved in infancy than this
little one, indeed she seemed rightly named
Celestia, for she was more like a celestial being
than a mortal one. On one occasion Presi-
dent Young inquired her name, and was told it
was Presendia Celestia; quick as thought he
said, celestial Presendia; and so it seemed she
was spirituelle in form and feature. Her
mother's heart was entwined around her so
firmly, that it seemed as though to be separated
even for a short time was almost insupportable.
But the purest and dearest are often taken in
infancy.	
			To be Continued.


[Column 1]
