LOGAN Y. L. M. I. A.

	The regular Quarterly Conference of the Y.
L. M. I. Associations of Cache Valley Stake
of Zion was held in Logan Tabernacle, Satur-
day, June 2nd, at ten a.m. Present on the
stand were General Superintendent Elmina
S. Taylor and Sister Elizabeth Howard, Stake
Superintendent H. A. Preston and Counselors,
supported by a fair representation from the
Associations thronghout the Stake. After
singing prayer the minutes of last confer-
ence were read and approved.
	Counselor I. I. Cook made brief prelimi-
nary remarks, requesting those who were
called to make verbal reports to be brief and
comprehensive.
	Representatives from nineteen Associations
responded to the roll and briefly reported the
leading features of their meetings and the
work that had been accomplished since last
conference. The improved manner of report-
ing might be considered an index to the pro-
gress made by the Associations.
	The secretary presented the half yearly fi-
nancial and statistical report which showed an
increase in membership and the societies in
good financial condition.
	Supt. H. A. Preston expressed her apprecia-
tion of the reports from the representation and
gave a general report as Stake Supt., making
special reference to the officer's monthly meet-
ings which were inaugurated for the purpose
of securing uniformity and thoroughness in all
the associations.
	Sisters Taylor and Howard spoke at length
upon subjects of most vital importance to the
young ladies. They urged purity of thought,
word and deed, both at home and in society.
Everything should be encouraged in meetings
that has an elevating tendency. Good music,
good reading, historical and biographical exer-
cises should intersperse those of a religious
character, that the interest in the meetings
might be lively and that the mental tendencies
of each member might be cultivated.
	The Deseret Hospital was referred to by the


speakers, who explained the object and benefit
of such an institution among the Saints, and
all were invited to become contributors to a
general fund to aid in supporting it, as it is
not yet self-sustaining; small contributions col-
lected from each member would considerably
aid the Hospital in its charitable work.
	Sisters Cook and Preston made brief re-
marks in conclusion, expressing thanks for the
attendance of Sisters Taylor and Howard, and
for their valuable counsel and encouragement.
	Conference adjourned to meet early in Sep-
tember. Benediction.
			ALLY MARTINEAU, Secretary.


The only way to shine, even in this false
world, is to be modest and unassuming. False-
hood may be a thick crust, but in the course of
time truth will find a place to break through.
Byrant.


[Column 1]
For Sale at this Office.

