PIONEER DAY.

	The 24th of July is fraught with memories
that are very dear to the hearts of this people.
The anniversary of the arrival here of the brave,
heroic pioneers who explored this mountain re-
gion when there was no trace of civilization,
must ever be looked upon as a day we should
celebrate. When we consider, too, all the
circumstances that caused the exodus of this
people from homes and associations dear to their
hearts, and that they came here because they
could have no abiding place among the so-called
Christians in this boasted land of freedom and
religious liberty, it calls forth some of the
strongest and tenderest emotions of the human
soul. The people came here a band of exiles,
fleeing from religious persecution; willing to
brave any danger, any peril for the sake of the
principles they had espoused, that were dearer
even than life itself.
	It is meet to celebrate the day with songs and
rejoicings, and to teach our children that it is an
epoch ever to be remembered by them as the
birth of freedom to the oppressed. Here they
planted the standard of liberty, and the stars
and stripes were unfurled to the breeze on that
memorable day. Thirty-six years have elapsed
since that time, and many changes have been
wrought during that period, some of which the
pioneers had never dreamed. Yet so far peace


has reigned, notwithstanding many attempts
have been made by wicked and unprincipled
men to take from this people what few privi-
leges they are permitted to enjoy as a Territory.
	At the present time perhaps there is a 
stronger influence brought to bear than at any
date previous. The incessant clamor of politic-
ians and office seekers, and also of ministers of
religion with small salaries sent out here to do
missionary work among the Mormons, has final-
ly succeeded so far as to secure inimicol legisla-
tion in Congress, and not satisfied even with
that, they still keep up the hue and cry, that
something further must be done. The fact is
this class of people are determined if possible
to wrest from the "Mormon" every right, not
only of citizenship, but the liberties and privi-
leges which every man of honor would rather
die than lose. The children of the Latter-day
Saints should know as much as possible, that
which their parents have suffered and endured
to establish themselves here and why they
came. And as a matter of history and to com-
memorate the 24th of July it is fitting to bring
our children together, that they may be duly
impressed with the importance attached to the
entrance of the pioneers into these valleys, and
with the significance of the fact that the Lord
led with a strong arm and an outstretched hand
his people up from the land of their enemies to
a place of refuge and that to Him alone they
should look for safety and protection in the time
of need.
	The Concerts which will be held in the Taber-
nacle under the direction of Evan Stephens
ought to be well patronized. Every inducement
that could be afforded has been offered to secure
a good house. The proceeds are to be used for
public purposes. For the benefit of Sunday
Schools, for the Deseret Hospital and to assist
Stephens' classes in their advancement in mu-
sic.


