WOMAN'S VOICE.

	The Saints of God gain a great deal of strength
by perusing your paper, the valuable EXPONENT.
It is a duty, and should be a pleasure to give
our feelings and meditations from time to time
to gaining intelligence, so by them as well as
by our prayers we can strengthen one another;
and how necessary it is that we should help one
another, now above all other times, when
scourges and pestilence are come upon the earth,
according to the predictions of ancient and
modern prophets. For instance, in Doctrine
and Covenants a revelation given through
Joseph Smith, December 27, 1832, that not
many days hence and the earth shall tremble
and reel to and fro like a drunken man, and the
sun shall hide his face and refuse to give light,
and the moon shall be bathed in blood, and the
stars shall cast themselves dows as a fig that
falleth off a fig tree. These predictions are at
our very door, and how necessary it is to take
His, the Lord's, counsel in this matter. Read
from paragraph 119 to 127 in the same revela-
tion. If we would do this how much it would
strengthen us at that great and awful day!
Have we anything to do? There is the rearing
of our young, our little children that God has
blessed us with; how necessary it is to implant
in their minds while young, the principles of life
and salvation; to teach them to rely on God

[Column 2]
under all circumstances; to teach them to pray.
What is more softening and touching in its na-
ture than a little child's faith in prayer? To
corroborate this statement I will relate a circum-
stance: A little boy not four years old, was
playing alone by the side of the house; the
mother was drawn from her work by hearing
him say, Amen. She stepped to the door, where
the little one was playing, and there beheld his
little table, with his bread and cup of water; she
said, "What are you doing darling?" The little
fellow looked up, his face beaming with smiles,
and said, "I'se asking the bessing, I said bess
the Bissop, and make his feets well." The
mother caught her little one in her arms, and
thanked the Lord for her treasure. I will here
explain. A short time ago the Bishop of this
place met with an accident and had to have six
of his toes amputated; and not only having the
prayers of the Saints, but the prayers of the in-
fants for his recovery was touching in the ex-
treme. I narrate this to show the spirit that is
working upon our little ones. The Lord has
kept back the noble spirits, to come and take
bodies in this dispensation, to carry out purposes
upon the earth in these last days.
	There is a great work for the Saints to do, for
the Lord has set up His kingdom never more to
be thrown down; for he says, in Doctrine and
and Covenants, Sec. 652, "The Keys of the
Kingdom of God are committed unto man on
the earth, and from thence shall the Gospel roll
forth unto the ends of the earth, as the stone
which was cut out the mountain without hands
shall roll forth until it has filled the whole earth.'
Therefore, if we are partakers of this same Gos-
pel or kingdom, which we know we are, and
those who do not let them pray diligently until
they do know, can afford to stand the persecu-
tions of the evil one and his accomplices; they do
not know what power it is that impels them in
their evil work. We can truly say, in the words
of Jesus, "Father forgive them, they know not
what they do." God has said, "I will avenge
the wrongs of my people." We can afford to
wait his own time; the main thing is for us to be
alive to our duties and privileges, and all the
blessings that God has promised His Saints he
will assuredly fulfill. He has promised to fight
our battles, is He not as good as his word? Has
he not commenced already? Look at the na-
tions of the earth to-day! Who cannot acknowl-
edge His hand in this? "God moves in a mys-
terious way His wonders to perform." Let us
be wakeful to the times, and prayerful, so when
the Bridegroom cometh we will be numbered
among the wise virgins, with our lamps full and
burning.							J. E. C.
	Orangeville, June 8th, 1883.


