HABIT.

	Habit may be defined as a condition of mind
or body, which results from the frequent per-
formance of an action. Man is called a crea-
ture of habit. When a habit is once firmly
established it becomes our master, and we
rarely have sufficient strength of will to over-
come it, although it be condemned both by
reason and experience. Habits are good or
bad, as they are the results of actions that are
right or wrong. People often justify bad
habits because they find difficulty in overcom-
ing them; but the habitual drunkard who is
unable to govern his appetite, that is ruining
himself and distressing his family cannot say
he does no wrong because his habits are bad
and it is to late to reform them. Bad habits
are the fruits of bad actions; but the fact that
a man is unable to break the habit is no excuse
for the wrong.
	We should obey the teachings of conscience
it is the highest authority to which we can ap-
peal. If we think an action right we are
under the strongest obligations to perform it; if
we feel it wrong nothing should induce its
commission. If we neglect to listen to the ap-
peal of conscience once we lose our self-respect,
and feel a sense of shame and meanness. If
we commit the wrong the second time its warn-
ing voice is not so loud, and finally, after re-
peated failures to gain attention, it ceases to
urge us to do right. The law of habit which
enables the conscience to grow each day stronger
and more certain in its indication of right will
so surely if neglected and abused cease entirely
to give its friendly advice. It is a dangerous
habit to neglect the kind whisperings of so
friendly a monitor. The sum of a person's
good and bad habits constitutes his character
If the good is in excess he is said to have a
good character; if the bad predominate his
character is said to be bad.
	Can habits be changed? Yes, they may be
changed, but it is easier to avoid bad habits
when they are shown to us, than to correct
them after they have begun to control our ac-
tions. The habits of an old man are not often
improved. Youth is the time to form good
habits; if we have formed bad habits we may
overcome them the same way we acquired
them, that is, by practice. If the conscience
tells us that any habit is wrong it is our duty
to change it. There is nothing brave or manly
in giving up the hope of reform, or in whin-
ing and conplaining with a cowardly "I cant."
It is folly to expect to break off in a day the
bad habits that have been growing for years.
The reform can only be accomplished by con-
stant, careful attention, by courageously watch-
ing and fighting against the disposition to do
wrong. It is not an easy undertaking. Keep
busy. Idleness is the strength of bad habits.
Do not give up the struggle when you have
taken your resolution once, twice or a dozen
times; any failure only shows how much need
there is for your increasing efforts. When you
have failed to accomplish your desire, think the
matter over and endeavor to understand why
it was you failed so that you may be on your
guard. Be honest with yourself, and never
think you can bear a tempation.	H. L.
	Coveville, Cache Co., Utah, May 18th, 1883


You find poetry nowhere, unless you bring
some with you.—Joubert.


