A SUMMER STROLL.

	'Tis a lovely morning! How cool the air,
how blue the sky, how sweet the voices of the
birds, how beautiful the flowers. What rest
and comfort to leave the dusty, busy town and
find a place so calm and peaceful. ’Tis indeed
a morn of summer splendor.
	Walk with me, dear friend, a little while,
through these lovely lanes, hedged in on either
side with wild rose and sweet brier bushes, and
note the little birds and squirrels, the white
rabbit, the chipmunk, as we pass along.
	All nature is so beautiful! Do you see in
yonder tree that yellow breasted blackbird,
and there close by his modest plumaged mate?
There must be a nest somewhere in these rushes,
yes, there it is with four little birdies in it, oh,
what sweet, pretty, happy things! Look to the
right. Did you see that gray squirrel running
in and out of the bush? There it is again; how
cunning he is. Let's rest awhile on this poor
fallen tree. How shattered and tortured it looks
—this fallen pine. Perchance one fair, bright
morn it stood as proud and happy as those stately
brothers there, waving their smiling boughs
in the glorious sunshine; and now all its bright-
ness, all its gladness, all its glory is dead and
gone, and here it lies mouldering in the dust, shot
down in all its beauty by the wrath of the rag-
ing heavens. How often in the happiest, fairest
day of life, the saddest, heaviest blow doth fall.
Poor fallen pine, once the fair dwelling of the
merry birds, now only a leafless, broken trunk.
	These are lovely flowers peeping up from
the grass; there are the little pink and purple
daisies with their great golden centers; how
often in childhood's days we gathered them and
wove our "daisy chains," and wound them
round and round ourselves, laughing at our-
pictures in the crystal water, and weeping when
the fickle chain faded and severed.
	How many chains we have woven since and

[Column 2]
wound them round and round our hearts, think-
ing them as beautiful and lasting as pearls,
and finding them as frail and fickle as daisies.
	There are butter-cups too and sweet-peas and
red-bells, sweet clover blooms and lovely white
lilies. Children of the soil, eyes of the mead-
ows peeping at us in the morn as the stars of
heaven gaze at us in the night.
	What a little impudent chipmunk, staring at
us so, how dare he come so near. Perhaps he
has a home near this old tree, and fears we
might molest it. To every living thing there
is always a spot somewhere on the earth dearer
than all other places, and this is home; man
with all his powers loves not more his palace-
of splendor, than these poor, creeping crea-
tures love their little hovels. Let us worry
him no longer, but hasten on and view other
beauties of this summer morn.
	How sweet the meadows are—what perfume
so lovely as the new-mown hay. That's the
sound of the medlark; did you hear it? And
there perched in that old cottonwood is a robin
what bird more enchanting than the plain,
homely robin. Some love the bright colored
birds of the south, I admire them, but only
love the plain, sweet songsters of the grove and
meadow, who tell their happiness to the worjd
by their sweet notes.
	Do we not more dearly love the one whose
soul is happy though her dress is plain, than
the one who flaunts the gaudiest colors, and
little cares what state the heart or mind is in,
so that the dress is beautiful and gay.
	The clouds are gathering in yon western sky
and there is still another spot along this pretty
walk for us to see so we must hasten on. It
lies across this pasture to the left, do you not
see that sheet of shimmering water there?
Along the shore some pretty shells may be
found which I would gather as a remembrance
of this morn.
	How kind is our Father in Heaven! No
matter where we stray, there is always some-
thing to delight us. Life has its pains and sor-
rows, but it also has its joys and gladness, just
as the day has its sunshine and shadow; and
the sorrows only make the life more beautiful
and complete. One who has never had a sor-
row knows not his own joys.
	The shadows of life, like those of day, only
mellow the glaring light and give it its varied
tints and colors. No matter how dark the
night is, there is always a morning awaiting us.
	These trees near by will give us shelter from
the approaching storm, and it is near us for
even now I feel the drops of rain, and faster,
faster yet, they come,
	Under the thick foliage of these gracious
trees we find protection from the storm, while
all around the heavy rain drops fall. 'Twas
only for a moment—and now the angry clouds
part and the pretty smiling blue peeps in be-
tween, We have wandered far to day, and
must seek our home. Let us not retrace our
steps, but take another way. Life holds so
many ways that no matter how beautiful the
paths we have passed, nor how rugged, and
steep the ones we meet, one would always
rather wander on than turn back again to the
ones trodden before.
	In dreams, and dreams alone, can the
past come back as beautiful and fresh as ever.
For in reality changes ever come, and a sin-
gle moment can make a change in any thing.
