EDITORIAL NOTES. 

	WE have received some very pleasant calls of
late, from very interesting people; one of them
M.s. James Couper, Glasgow, Scotland, who is
traveling in America for pleasure and informa-
tion. She spent a few days in this city and made
several calls with us on “Mormon” people. She
is a very finely educated and cultivated woman,
and has certainly had an opportunity to see and
learn something concerning our homes and insti-
tutions. She expects to sail for home on the
20th of July. We wish her a safe and pleasant
journey, and trust she may do some good in re-
moving prejudice. 
	THE delegates to the County Convention that
was held in this city, July 14th, transacted the
business for which they convened in a very
creditable and satisfactory manner. Among
other items of business they elected thirty-two
delegates to a District Convention to be held in
the City Hall, July 21st, to nominate members
to the next Legislative Assembly. Of the thir-
ty-two delegates, five are ladies, Miss Mattie
Horne, Mrs. John Q. Cannon, Miss Sarah E.
Vincent, Mrs. Charles W. Stayner, Miss Nellie
Colebrook. Among the alternates are Mrs.
Emily E. Brinton and Mrs. Isabella McGhie.
The County Central Committee of the People's
Party were sustained as follows: John Sharp, D.
O. Calder, J. R. Winder, Feramorz Little, Theo-
dore Mc. Kean, I. M. Stewart, J. S. Rawlins, A.
M. Cannon, John T. Caiue, Samuel Bennion,


John F. Snedaker, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. S.
M. Kimball, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Thomas E.
Taylor.
	REV. BRADLEY ABBOTT and wife, who
visited Salt Lake City recently, brought a let
ter of introduction to the Editor of the EXPO
NENT from a gentleman acquaintance who re-
sides in London. Mr. and Mrs. Abbott
were less prejudiced against the "Mor-
mons," and more inclined to treat our
subject in a fair and logical manner
than the clergy generally are. They are people
of broad and philanthropic views and exceed-
ingly interesting in conversation, having trav-
eled very extensively in the holy land and on
the continent of Europe, and met with people
of all nations.
	Mr. Abbott has a large parish in London, and
is a man of great influence with the clergy, and
very popular among his parishioners. His wife
too is closely associated with him in all his cleri-
cal and benevolent labors, and finds a wide field
of usefulness for womanly efforts.
	Mr. and Mrs. Abbott are both advocates for
Woman Suffrage and realize the great good be-
ing accomplished in England by the suffrage
movement.
	A GUIDE to Salt Lake City, recently pub-
lished by Joseph H. Parry, called "The Mor-
mon Metropolis," is a very good work to place
in the hands of strangers to give them correct
ideas of our city and its environs, its places of
note, manufactures and institutions. The Guide
contains a map of the city which gives a good
idea of its situation; then an "Introductory," in
which the author states that "Mormonism"
gives to the city "its unique pre-eminence
amongst the cities of Western America." The
first settlement of the city by the pioneers and
the company who followed them is given brief-
ly and yet minutely. The latitude, longitude
and scenery of the city is given, also its altitude
and other interesting matter. The book is illus-
trated, containing excellent pictures of the 
Temple Block, Salt Lake Temple when com-
pleted, The Tabernacle, Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, President Young's Residence, Grave of
President Young, Black Rock and Garfield land-
ings, also Black Rock in the Salt Lake. The
Temple and Tabernacle are described, also other
public buildings and edifices, and the commer-
cial and manufacturing interests are well ex-
plained. Schools, Churches and newspapers are
well represented in this neat and complete little
hand book, and the author seems not to have
neglected anything of importance. Data, his-
torical and interesting, is furnished, and it will
certainly be of great benefit to tourists and
pleasure seekers who stop off to visit Salt Lake
City. The book is for sale at Parry's store,
north of Z. C. M. I. Price 25cts per copy.


