MY DEAR MADAME:
	Allow me to return to you that priceless
book "Woman and her Era" with many
thanks. You ask me to give a few criti-
cisms on the work. This is beyond me,
for all criticism is lost in admiration!
For erudition, breadth of thought, sound
logic, and fine language, this work, in my
opinion, surpasses all writings on the wo-
man question.
The best expression of my opinion of
"Woman and her Era" should be intro-
duced into all female educational establish-
ments as a class book. * Students in every
art seek eagerly the most beautiful models,
knowing that on the perfection of the mode
their own perfection greatly depends.
Now the woman revealed to our con-
sciousness by Mrs. Farnham, is so truth-
fully perfect in every outline, that a mo-
ment's contemplation suffices to inspire
even the frivolous with a desire to approxi-
mate, if not equal its exqusite harmonies;
and we know that desire is the mother of
effort. An extract from Mr. Buckle im-
pressed me so much that I felt impelled to
make a little commentary upon it, which I
submit to your opinion. He says "our
greatest admiration should be reserved, not
for those who make the discoveries, but for
those who show HOW to make these discov-
eries." He continues to demonstrate all
that this real conviction of truth which
solves great problems before poets prove
them, belong to the deductive, or as I
think we may term it—the inspirational
form of reason,—according to Mr. Buckle,
this is the highest method of reasoning,
approaching to the Divine! In proof of
this he cites the numerous discoveries
which have emanated from the inspiration
of a woman instead of being slowly ap-
proached by a collection of facts—the in-
ductive method. Facts are necessary to
prove a truth, but they often fail to discover
it. Now this writer (and in this assertion
he is supported by all who have studied
the subject) asserts that woman reasons
wholly by the deductive method, and that
she has unknowingly, very much aided hu-
man progress by keeping fact-seeking in-
ductive man even against his will, on the 
threshold of inspiration's Temple from
whence ever and again would flash a ray of
light irradiating for a moment the dark-
ened Universe, dissolving to man's groping
vision a glimpse of the abode of Truth.
Inspiration is the highest form of reason,
and woman is essentially inspirational!
What a vista of a glorious possibility this
reveals. When freedom, legal and social,
enables woman to be truly a woman, a
highly endowed, responsible being,—not an
ornamental chattel; when a right education
trains her to ascend undaunted the steps of
inspiration's altar, to gaze upon the ra-
diant light ever glowing there, with an eye
calm and undazzled, when with a strong
arm she throws open wide the doors of
that glorious Temple, flooding the world
with the light of truth; then may we look
for regeneration, then will man enlight-
ened, exalted, and consequently purified,
become "like unto God!"
	But the prejudice of centuries cries out,
if woman is endowed with the highest

[Column 2]
reasoning method, why has she not found a
place in the ranks of discoveries? Why,
now that the professions are open to her
does she not more distinguish herelf? Why
indeed!
	These objections are easily answered.
There are three reasons, each one sufficient
to prevent the realization of woman's
grandest possibility. First, consider her
treatment for ages—forbidden to think,
how could she develop reason? Forced to
consider herself an inferior, and despise as
weaknesses her most divine gifts; was it
likely she could cultivate these gifts; under
such conditions?—To this day woman is
heavily shackled—true, brilliant-hued flow-
ers, gold and jewels sometimes hide the
chains, but the chains and their dismal
clanking is heard at every step that woman
takes. Intellectual power, the heart's tru-
est emotions, yea even the aspirations of
her soul have been, and still are fettered so
long, so cruelly fettered, that many cannot
live without their chains, and if man shews
an inclination to set her free, she rebinds
herself and her sisters—binds them hand
and foot to the iron pillar of custom, and
gives the key of the same to Mrs. Grundy,
than whom no jailor was ever more cruel!
What then can be expected of faculties
thus cramped, benumbed, palsied, atrophied;
can they instantly regain their tone and
compete with faculties that throughout ages
have enjoyed every favorable condition and
impetus? Nature answers No!
The professions are now opened to wo-
men; granted—but look at the entrances to
them. The enchanted palaces of malevo-
lent genii were not more difficult of access.
Thorns, spears, fire and taunts await the
bold invader. Yet woman has braved all
these! with super-human courage she has
trodden down the thorns, smiled at the
taunts, and thrust aside the weapons. But
who can chronicle the horror her sensitive
nature has endured, the soul shrinkings,
the concealed agonies of those glorious pio-
neers!
	Woman's position to-day is one of war-
fare; all her energies and her faculties are
concentrated to resist the enemies infinite
in number. Her vision, instead of contem-
plating the beauties of truth is ever on the
alert for an attack. Thus the force that
should enable her to soar to the highest
realms of genius is expended in fighting
those, who by all that is sacred in nature,
should be her helpers and protectors.
The third reason is in woman herself. The
idea of woman's inferiority, has been so
strenuously inculcated, so continually reit-
erated, that the women whose motto is
"Excelsior" imagine that mentally they
must become men. Fatal error!! to attain,
or rather to descend to the masculine stand-
ard, these women with a heroism and for-
titude truly feminine, endeavor to crush
their spiritual nature, to stifle their god-
like affections, to bandage their exquisite
perceptions, thus losing all their high pre-
rogatives.	*
That woman has endured the ordeal of
scorn, of ridicule, of sensuality, with its
vile jokes, of the not mis-named finishing
process, and yet to-day can show the bril-
liant array of pure, noble, self-sacrificing,
intellectual, inspired women, the boast our 
civilization, is proof enough of the great-
ness of woman! And that she has brought
to her feet her worst libelers, supplicating
her help to raise them to the higher plane
on which she stands, proves her power.
That she has gladly stretched forth her
hand to these her enemies without one word
of reproach, demonstrates her divine possi-
bilities.—Enslaved, insulted, buffetted,

[Column 3]
mocked, * yet the aureole of Divinity still
beams upon her brow to guide man heaven-
ward.
				MARIE AGNESE WALSH.
	S. L. City, April, 1877.


