LABOR FOR ZION.

	Labor for Zion should be the motto of all
who have enlisted under the banner of the
Everlasting Gospel. This work should include
all labor temporal and spiritual, and is both
individual and general. While laboring for
Zion each one is attaining to his or her own
exalt-ation with the innumerable hosts of
Zion's workers in former and latter days.
	The terrible existing state of things at the
present time in this, the land of free govern-
ment, is indicative of the great calamities that


will and must necessarily precede the setting
up of God's kingdom upon the earth.
	Women profess to have great intuition, to be
particularly susceptible of impressions as re-
gards the future; if such is the case (and we
believe it is) then they should be wise in time,
and be practical in the movements to become
self-sustaining. The women of Utah have
been counseled to store up grain for Zion, a
mission of which they may justly be proud; a
mission such as women never before we think
received at any time upon the earth. And
now that the harvest is near, and the fields
ripening, it is time to take into wise consider-
ation what can be done to carry out this coun-
sel, and make careful and judicious preparation
for the future. Parties of ladies could be
formed for the especial purpose of gleaning
after the reapers. These might be made par-
ticularly pleasant, as well as profitable, if the
sisters entered into it with that zeal and en-
thusiasm they do into excursions merely for
recreation. Of course the sisters would under-
stand that leave must be obtained from own-
ers of fields, so that there would be no intru-
sion.
	There are very many branches, here in Zion,
of home work and industries, in which women
might be much more extensively engaged and
interested, even without neglecting domestic
duties. Women should be quick to compre-
hend the great advantages to be derived from
these home resources, all of which are a part of
the Political Economy of Our Mountain Home.


[Column 1]

