HOME AFFAIRS.

	ELDER ORSON PRATT left Salt Lake City
for England July 18, and sailed from New
York for Liverpool July 31. He has gone thither
to superintend the publishing of the Book of
Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants in the
Phonetic Alphabet, which is about to be intro-
duced into general use in Utah.
	AT THIS warm season of the year, bathing is
a most healthful and delightful recreation. Salt
Lake is preferable to any other place of resort
and there is every facility now to make it plea-
sant and practicable. The Utah Western Rail-
road have so arranged the time as to suit all
who may be anxious to avail themselves of the
opportunity of these recuperating and exhilir-
ating baths. 
	WE WISH to call the attention of the sisters
to the Woolen Batting now for sale at the
Woman's Commission House, which is pre
ferable to cotton for all uses on account of its
being lighter, and puffy in appearance; also
the New Zealand Flax seed, which should be
thoroughly tested here, as it is very necessary to
have some home material for summer clothing.
	TO-DAY, July 27, we had a pleasant call from
Elders Martin Lenzi and Rulon S. Wells, re-
turned missionaries. They left Salt Lake City
Nov. 6, 1875, and proceeded almost direct to
Berne, Switzerland, by way of Liverpool.
They have labored during their absence in the
Swiss and German Mission, and have enjoyed
their labors exceedingly. They gave us some
entertaining accounts of that picturesque coun-
try, so celebrated for its beautiful mountain
and lake scenery. Br. Lenzi visited the place
of his birth in the village of Wallbach, Canton
of Aargau, Switzerland. In the very house
where he was born he feasted upon grapes
which grew upon its walls; he roamed over
the farm and through the gardens and forests
which were once his childhood's home. This
little village is about one hundred miles north-
east from Berne, and is in full view of the
Black Forest of Germany. We are pleased to

[Column 2]

welcome these brethren home in safety, feeling
they have filled their mission honorably.
	THE GRAND Sunday School Jubilee in honor
of the anniversary of the pioneer's entrance
into this valley, July 24th, thirty years since,
was a complete success. The music was grand
and inspiring; the songs were rendered with
spirit and feeling, harmonizing with the occa-
sion. President B. Young addressed the con-
gregation, giving them some items of church
history from its first organization. The Ruined
Cattage, by D. McKenzie, was touching, and
eloquently rendered. An address written by
Miss E. R. Snow was given by George F. An-
derson, who acquitted himself admirably on
the occasion. The Tabernacle was elaborately
decorated with flowers and evergreens, and the
thousands of children, with pleasant faces and
glad voices, singing praises and rejoicing, was
truly animating. Truly the saints have reason
to rejoice in the blessings of God upon their
labors, in converting the desert into a choice
and fruitful garden, where bloom the fairest
flowers in profusion, and children "full as it
can hold," and peace and prosperity crown
their days.
	THURSDAY MORNING, July 19th, President
Young and a select party of brethren and sis-
ters went to Ogden by special train, to attend
a meeting, in the Ogden Tabernacle, of the
Relief Societies of Weber Co. The Taberna-
cle was crowded to overflowing, the congrega-
tion being nearly all ladies—officers and mem-
bers of the various Relief Societies of Weber
Co. After the usual exercises, President
Young arose and stated that he had expected
to hear reports from the different societies, but
since his arrival had been informed that the 
meeting had been called expressly to receive
instructions from himself and the brethren.
He proceeded to instruct them upon the sub-
ject of health—how to avoid sickness, how
mothers should train their children; counseled
mothers to give them early lessons of faith and
principle; to teach them to believe implicitly
in God, and that He takes cognizance of every
act of their lives; that they are surrounded by
good angels, ministering spirits; and inculcate
in their hearts and minds a love of virtne,
honesty and truthfulness, and let their exam-
ple be in harmony with their precept and
the force of this education would have a bear-
ing upon their whole lives, when they should
go out from under the mother's influence. He
designated mothers as the moving iustrument
in the hands of Providence to guide the desti-
nies of nations, and exhorted mothers to teach
their children not to make war, but to teach
them peace; he asked the question, "Who
gives the key to the nations of the earth? It
is the mothers, it is not the fathers." In giv-
ing advice and counsel on minor points, he al-
luded to trifles and small things making up all
great matters, that our lives are full of little
incidents which make one great whole, one
vast experience; that the earth itself was com-
posed of little grains of sand. He referred to
the counsel he gave the sisters in regard to stor-
ing up wheat, with which he was pleased, and
spoke earnestly and emphatically on the sub-
ject of making our own hats and bonnets, also
hats for the brethren, and said that even in
this one class of manufacture we could save
tens of thousands of dollars; and that to save
money was more difficult than to earn it. He
urged upon the sisters the necessity of enter-
ing heart and soul into the home industries,
and to use their utmost influence with their
husbands to have them establish such institu-
tions and manufactories as would make this
people independent. His instructions were


most eloquent, full of pathos and fatherly
counsel, and if carried out in the lives of the
saints, would very soon make us not only
healthful and wealthy, but fit us for the socie-
ty of angels and sanctified beings.
 Elder Carrington in his remarks dwelt at
some length upon fashion, which to him, he
said, was a myth, he asked no odds of Mrs.
Grundy; felt that it was beneath the dignity
of a saint to follow the fashions of Babylon;
exhorted the sisters to make their own fash-
ions; said that some of the sisters were ahead
of the brethren in many good things.  President
Wells, in the course of his remarks, said he
had long conceded woman was a power in the
earth, and he hailed these organizations of the
sisters as a harbinger of good results, carrying
with it as it did an influence more manifest
than in times past.  That woman was an in-
dispensable helpmeet to man, and should occu-
py that position in all practical work in build-
ing up the kingdom of God, as well as in spir-
itual work and exaltation; said that the saints
of God should learn to govern and controlthemselves according to the laws that govern
our being, and the principles of life and salva-
tion.  Elder John Taylor said there were more
women present than was usual to meet; he al-
luded to woman's faith, referred to the counsel
which a woman gave to the rich man whom
the Savtor told to go and dip seven times in
Jordan; he felt it was too little a thing, but the
woman had faith and intuition, and by listen-
ing to her he was healed through obedience.
Spoke of obeying the laws of life and health,
to preserve our lives to the age of a tree, and
alluded to the manner in which children were
brought up in the aristocrat families of Europe,
and said as saints we ought to be more particu-
lar in the training of our children than the
people of the world are, and pray God ever to
help us.  President Young then gave some
wise and practical instructions concerning the
mission of sericulture, which had been given
to the sisters, and told them it was a way in
which they could make money for their own
use.  Talked a little more about dress; said
that our time was all we could call our own,
we should have to give an account of it, and
therefore we should use it to the best possible
advantage, in assisting to build up the king-
dom of God upon the earth.  Elder Franklin
D. Richards arose and made a few closing re-
marks; requested in behalf of Mrs. Richards,
president of Weber County societies, that these
societies would prepare a quarterly report of
the condition of each society and its financial in-
terests, to be read there three months from that
time, to which time that meeting was  en-
tering more fully and earnestly into the work
of home industries and helping to become self
sustaining, a request was made for them to rise
to their ieet: to which every one in the room
responded gladly.
	Altogether the day was one of rejoicing,
everything passing off pleasantly.  The good
people of Ogden were most profuse in hospi-
tality to those who came from other places,
and there were so many good things said for
the encouragement of women in stepping for-
ward to assist in building up Zion, that we
could only wish that all the world could have
heard it.  Mormon women should surpass the
women of the world in good works, for they
are in the enjoyment of the wisest counsel, and
it is to be hoped they will carry it out in their
lives and transmit to posterity a heritage of
good deeds, more precious than gold or gems.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 Allow me, a stranger here in your really
beautiful city, to acknowledge a very great
pleasure recently afforded me at your pleasant
and cosy office—that of meeting, by request
and my own desire, the several intelligent
ladies who had there assembled to discuss mat-
ters pertaining to health, its physiological
laws, and the penalty of a perversion of them.
To me the theme has ever been fraught with
intense interest, and in importance paramount
to all other subjects, especially where woman
is concerned; and the sad fact that women in
general give it less attention than any other, is
to me a source of deep regret.  Hence, I repeat,
my delight to find here intelligent ladies earn-
estly engaged in the study of medicine, the
various organic weaknesses and complaints of
females, their prevention and cure.  The one
desire, seemingly, of gaining all possible use-
ful information calculated to enable them to
inaugurate a better system or understanding of
the laws of health, so that those possessing it
may preserve, and those suffering from its loss
find relief and restoration.  To find ladies thus
usefully engaged is truly gratifying in the ex-
treme, and manifests the true noble woman,
such as "The Allwise Creator" intended. Itis not only a proof of their commendable am-
bition, but noble, pure desires, and interest in
the welfare of their sex, mentally, physically
and morally; for if health be preserved, the
happy possessor is less liable to the many
short-comings of a disease physical and men-
tal.  A diseased mind is often the result of a
diseased body, and the errors often committed
can with certainty be traced to this the first
and true cause.  This being the case, how im-
portant that we seek to preserve and fully ap-
preciate this most choice of blessings, health,
which our Heavenly Father has vouchsafed us.
	In the matter and manner of dress alone for
its effects upon health, there offers much for
thought and discussion.  Many "dress-reform-
ers" have earnestly labored to invent and in-
troduce certain costumes, which they claim to
be more healthful, at least more comfortable,
all bearing merit; but for various reasons they
have not been adopted, except by a few. I
have myself given the subject much thought,
and the result has been the invention of several
articles and appliances, some of which I have
had patented.  I have sought to improve upon
those heretofore offered for the purpose, and to
have such as would be the most perfect possi-
ble, affording comfort and relief to my suffer-
ing sex, and have the assurance of not having
striven in vain.  Among the various useful ar-
ticles and appliances I have, I purpose making
special mention of two, that should come into
general use.  Such as every lady should con-
sider indispensable.  The first is a "Health
Corset," having a combination of skirt-sup-
porter and shoulder-straps.  It is also entirely,
wholly free from front steels or clasps, so inju-
rious to females, and is in every way a health-
ful article of dress.  This corset, supporting as
it does the weight of clothing to, or from the
shoulder, is also so arranged as to prevent not
only the weight but heat, so injurious, caused
by so many folds of clothing resting upon the
spine. The importance of removing both the
heat and weight cannot be too earnestly advo-
cated; for it is these which occasion a weak-
ness, often difficult to overcome by the most
united efforts.  This corset, though loosely
worn and free from steels, improves the figure,
and is all that any lady requires.  The other
article referred to is simply a skirt-supporter,
which may be worn with or without a corset,
and which is a most perfect and valuable arti-
cle.  It is also inexpensive, an article that
every lady will feel able to avail herself of.
The weight of clothing is by this article borne


