			VARIED THOUGHTS.

	As each day dawns, and we rise from our
beds of quiet repose, refreshed by the sweet
restorer sleep—how manifold are our
thoughts and how strangely varied! What
more rapid than untrammeled thought?
Worlds, in imagination, are created and
castles built, only to be torn down and cast
away, there to lie may be, in utter forget-
fulness.
	Sometimes on the wild wings of thought,
we are borne aloft to dizzy heights from
whence we are loth to return, and return-
ing, we find stern reality, a reminder of
what we are, and whither we are tending.
	Each day as we mingle with our fellow
beings, lessons of wisdom are constantly
before us, and it remaining with our better
judgment if we accept or refuse.
	The most daring may falter and fall by

[Column 2]
the way-side because of a want of true mor-
al courage; the most worthy and energetic
have often their efforts blunted and una-
vailing, because of some untoward circum-
stance over which they had not control, and
sometimes for the want of encouragement
and a helping hand, sink to rise no more.
	Thus in life, our highest, noblest aims,
fondest wishes are blighted and unrealized
—leaving us to conclude, that at best, we
are but creatures of circumstances.
	Yesterday, myriads of contending
thoughts filled me with joy and sorrow
alike the disposing causes before me, and
to-day, yielding to the better counselor, my
mind has been serenely calm. It is not my
wont to seek sorrow, nor would I turn aside
from those over whose heads hang dark
threatening clouds, but rather abide, if
need be, and share the sorrow and heed
the lesson it teaches. True, we instinct-
ively shrink from gloom and if left to
choice, would choose ever that which glad-
dens. Sorrows and afflictions are often
blessings in disguise, and 'twere better
even to suffer deeply and learn sympathy,
than to escape and not be able to feel for
those who do. We should be able to ex-
claim with Pope,

		"Help me to feel for others, love
			Each selfish sorrow less,
		That mercy I to others show
			Reflected happiness shall bless."

	If we sought always our own good, our
own happiness, how selfish indeed we
should be, and how narrowed our efforts
and aims. We truly fulfill the design of
our creation when we thus pervert it.
	When I remember that the world is full
of beauty created for our enjoyment by
Him, the great artist and designer, the
maker and controller of the bright starry
firmament on high, the earth, and seas and
all that in them is! how insignificant seems
ever our most lofty aspirations, and how
worse than folly our repinings. Should we
not rather bow in humility and thankful-
ness for His many mercies vouchsafed us,
assured that all is for the best.

	"What though dark clouds around us rise,
		And tempests round us gather?
	The thunderbolt which cleaves the skies
		Will bring us fairer weather.
	What though the force of fire and flood
		Makes life a scene of trial?
	God meant that man should find his good
		In paths of self denial.

	This world with all its toil and strife,
		Is nature's royal college,
	Where all the pains and ills of life
		Become our guide to knowledge.
	Up frowning steeps, down gloomy vales,
		Toward the grave descending,
	They lead us on, till death unveils
		A world of life unending.

	There are no ills by mortals borne,
		But blessings underlie them;
	No human heart by sorrows worn,
		But reaps advantage by them;
	No sickness, sorrow, pain and sighs,
		But are of heaven's designing;
	And not a cloud obscures the skies,
		But has a silver lining.
	Where rolls the wave of sin and strife,
		There streams of truth are flowing;
	Where thorns beset the path of life,
		There flowers are ever growing,
	Where clouds obscure the sun from sight,
		A rift the light is making;
	The darkest hour of all the night
		Is when the day is breaking."

	Such assurances as these are as cheering
as true, and we have but to press forward
hopefully, continually striving. Our
thoughts, desires and utterances, should
tend to all that is fine and elevating, so
that as designed, we may view and enjoy
to perfection all in this world, and at last


be worthy the sublimity and never ending
beauty, the promised joys of that which is
to come.
								H.
—Argus.


