	JOSEPH SMITH THE PROPHET.

	I consider Joseph Smith the greatest
man the world ever knew, (except the
Savior.) He lived a saint, and died a mar-
tyr for his religion; he sealed his testimony
with his blood which was spilt by the
hands of a bloodthirsty mob who came dis-
guised painted black and red and dressed
in hideous colors and costumes. They were
influenced and led on by pretended preach-
ers of the Gospel. The state authorities
tried time after time to find him guilty of
some evil to convict him, but they never
could, for he was an innocent man; he
served God and loved mankind; even to
the laying down of his life. But with him
as with the Savior and His Apostles, men
would swear to lies to get him into prison;
but he never got angry and went to war.
No! He was like a lamb, he went with
them when he knew they were going to
kill him, and he was as calm as a summer's
morning when he bid his friends good-bye,
and told them that it would yet be said that
he was murdered in cold blood.
	Let us look at what he did for us who be-
lieved and obeyed his words. He taught
us the Gospel and told us there was a God
in heaven, who was our father and we were
His children; he instructed us how to pray
to our Father in the name of Jesus and
gain a knowledge for ourselves, and taught
us how to live and follow Christ our elder

[Column 2]
brother, that we may inherit a kingdom of
glory; if we will live by his teachings and
what he left on record, it will take you and
me right into the celestial kingdom of our
God.
	Can we follow the example he set? He
loved his friends and prayed for his ene-
mies and those who would injure him; he
was kind to the poor and needy, visiting
the sick and afflicted and took care of the
widow and orphans; gave bread to the
hungry and those who would borrow he
turned not away empty, yet he himself was
a poor man; so you see the Lord nearly al-
ways chose the poor to accomplish a great
work. Abraham had no riches when the
Lord called him; Isaac could not be called
rich; Jacob was a herder of stock. David,
a man after God's own heart, he was a
shepherd boy. Moses brought up at the
king's table was turned off without a for-
tune. Jesus the Lord and Savior of the
world, was born in a manger, and brought
up as a poor carpenter's son; he was not
rich for we read of him and his disciples
eating green corn on the Sabbath day be-
cause they were hungry. Thus we see the
servants of the Lord were poor and lowly.
The Lord takes the poor and meek of the
earth to confound the wise and the great.
Think of this church being organized with
only six members in 1830, now they are in
nearly every town, city, village and county
over the whole earth; all through the in-
strumentality of a poor farmer's boy who
read the Bible and was willing to give heed
to the teachings therein. Let us do like-
wise.
						M. A. W.
	Mill Creek Ward, July, 1877.


