DEAR EXPONENT:
	I use the term dear as expressive of my
feelings, and you are, or should be dear to
every woman in Utah who has the interest
of Zion at heart. It is not because I never
think of writing there is never a line from
me in your columns, but because I do not
feel capable of interesting my sisters. I
often think if I could only write like "Aunt
Em" and some other contributors to the
EXPONENT, I should write often; but there
is a time when we all have to begin.
	We have had quite a sad time here lately
on account of the drowning of one of Elder
Woodruff's sons; the particulars of the ac-
cident were published in the "Deseret
News." Mrs. Phebe Woodruff of Salt Lake
City came up to the funeral and stayed a
few days. While here, she kindly con-
sented to talk to the Relief Society and
Young Ladies' Association. I never heard
better or more motherly advice in my life.
I thought while listening to her wise coun-
sel, the time is about passed when women
will be looked upon as mere drudges and
helps by the lords of creation. They are
stepping to the front and taking their pla-
ces where they belong, by the side of men,
not as the head but as the helpmeet. I
think if the world could hear some of our
Mormon women talk, and could read our
paper and know how they express them-
selves in writing, they would not speak as
they do about us. Of course all the women
in Utah are not saints, and tourists talk to
that class as well as to true saints, and form
impressions accordingly, and they go away
and say, "a fine young lady said to me
while in Utah, I shall never go into polyg-
amy, I do not want to share my husband
with another wife," and so on. They who
write thus, are not aware that those who
talk like this are not true Latter-day saints;
and of course they will not live in plural
marriage and if they should they would
not remain true to its requirements, and
make those happy with whom they were
associated.
	Our Relief Society and Young Ladies'
Association are in a prosperous condition,
under the guidance of their worthy presi-
dents, viz., E. T. Morehead, president of
the Relief Society, and A. Barber, of the
Young Ladies' Association.
	We are anxiously looking for a visit from
some of the rest of our good sisters from
the city, to talk to us. Praying for the
success of your valuable paper, I remain,
	Your Sister in the Gospel.
		M. S.


For the EXPONENT.
