OBITUARY.

	Died in Salt Lake City, July 3d, 1877, after
a lingering illness, of Liver complaint, Mrs.
Ann Edmunds, daughter of Johnathan and 
Amy Brunning, and wife of Francis Edmunds
of this city. Deceased was born in Wangford,
Suffolk Co., England, July 29, 1822; embraced
the Gospel in May, 1849, and emigrated to Utah
in 1868, where she has lived the life of a true
Saint. She was the mother of thirteen chil-
dren, eight of whom are still living, and eight
grandchildren. She has filled faithfully, for a
number of years, the office of teacher in the 
branch of the Relief Society of the Tenth
Ward, and her kind words of counsel and min-
istering hand will be sadly missed by those
with whom she associated. Though great the
bereavement in consigning her to the silent
grave, we have the assurance that her good
works will live after her.			M. P.
Died, in Harrisville Ward, Weber County,
Utah, on Tuesday morning, June 12th, 1877, of
heart disease, Margaret Parkinson. wife of
Richard Daniels Brown. She was born May
12th 1811, at Lamberhead Green near Wigan-
Lancashire, England; married Sept. 30th, 1830,
at Hindley Church near Wigan. She embraced
the gospel in the Manchester Conference, Eng-
land, June 9th, 1850.
	She was the mother of seventeen children;
the first five dying in infancy, and two subse-
quently. The ten surviving ones have all
come to these valleys, and there are fifty-seven
grandchildren. Her love for her children is
known by her severe exposures and ardent toil
for their comfort in the midst of her impover-
ished surroundings, and her sacrifices are in-
delibly stamped with her love and fidelity to her
holy religion. Her door has always been
opened for the reception of God's saints and
servants; and at six different times she aided
her children to go from her parental care to
gather to Zion. In the fall of 1864 her longing
desires were gratified by gathering with her
husband and remaining little ones to the bosom
of the church.  In the fall of 1865 they settled
in Harrisville, and in April 17, 1865, she joined
and was set apart as a teacher of the Relief So-
ciety organization of this place.
She was in the enjoyment of moderate health
to the day of her death, which was very sud-
den. Her youngest son going to her room at
quarter past six o'clock a. m., to ascertain the 
reason she did not arise as usual, found her
dead in bed, her husband being on a visit to 
his daughter in Cache Valley at the time.
	She died as though she was enwrapt in
balmy sleep, and without an apparent struggle;
thus passed off a faithful saint, a loving wife
and an affectionate mother to sleep in Christ,
to await the morning of the first ressurrection.
	The funeral services were held on Thursday,
June 14th, 1877. The Bishop, his counselors
and a large concourse of relatives and friends
were assembled at her funeral, and consoling
remarks were made; a very large procession
followed her remains to the grave. 
				MELISSA A. SHURTLIFF,
					Pres't Relief Society.
				JOSEPHINE TAYLOR, Sec'y.
	[Deseret News and Millennial Star please
copy.


