NOTES AND NEWS.

	MONDAY EVENING July 16, Mother
Stewart addressed a very large audience, in
Cooper Institute, N. Y.
	MISS LYDIA Becker stated, at a Woman
Suffrage meeting in England recently, that
there were 2,500,000 spinsters in Great
Britian who owned $750,000,000 of prop-
erty.
	MISS E. STAUNTON Chadbourne, of Bos-
ton, is about to make miscellaneous read-
ings a profession. She is a graduate of the
"Boston School of Oratory,' which for in-
struction in Elocution is second to no other
in the country.
	THE DESERET News of July 27, states
that the Union Pacific workmen obtained
their point without recourse to violence or
a strike. The order for a reduction of wa-
ges was rescinded by Sup't Clarke on
his own responsibility, who announced his
willingness to hear any of their grievances
at any time and conciliated them by reduc-
ing the price of coal supplies to their fami.
lies.
	THE GREAT Strikes in the States have been
increasing daily, and up to the present time
have not abated. It is impossible to give any
idea of the terrible consequences which are
now being felt, and what the future will be
no man without the aid of revelation could
possibly determine. The suppression of
the mobs and riots will call into exercise
all the energies and capabilities of the wis-
est and best heads. If it continues for any
length of time the country will certainly
be involved in ruin, which at the present
representation of affairs from newspaper
reports is imminent. In all the largest cit-
ies along the railroad routes life and prop-
erty are at the mercy of those who are in-
furiated with the spirit of mobocracy
which seems to be broadcast now over
these United States. Indian depredations
and troubles are also on the increase and
the state of things all over this country is
really deplorable. The Eastern war ac-
counts are by no means indicative of peace
or of any amicable arrangements, and ac-
cording to recent telegrams the two empires
are calling to their aid all the reinforce-
ments they can possibly obtain.


A SIDE LIGHT.—Never face the light
when at work, but contrive to have a side
light, which will not shine directly in the
eyes. In the schools in Germany this mat-
ter has already been attended to, and the
rule adopted is to have all the seats and ta-
bles so arranged that the pupil never faces
the windows, but only has the side lights
from the left; and as a light simultaneously
thrown from two sides, gives an inference
of shadows, it has been strictly forbidden
to build school-rooms with windows on
both sides, such illumination having also
proved injurious to the eyes of the pupils.
We may add to this advice not to place the
lamp in front of you when at work in the
evening, but a little on one side; use a
shade—a green one is best as it softens the
light, which illuminates only the work up-
on which it falls.


