REFLECTIONS ON READING "PICCAOLA."

Alone and forsaken on life's stormy main,
With no hope of the blessing of freedom again,
His aims and ambition for earth in the dust:
Despair, in his bosom no faith and no trust
In his God and his Saviour to pierce through the gloom,
That enshrouded his spirit more dark than the tomb.

The phantom of happiness which he had sought,
That cannot with things of earth ever be bought,
Had fled from before him as dew from the lawn.
All, all but despair and his cold pride were gone.
With thought's maddening power alone in his cell,
His soul's bitter anguish no mortal can tell.

There came to his prison by kind angels sent,
Who on missions of love o'er the lone one had bent,
A frail gentle flower, like him there alone,
And it touched a deep heart-chord before all unknown,
A chord which could lead him to peace and to love,
To see God in His works, and to him look above.

He had drank, deeply drank of science and art,
In all of earth's pleasures had borne a wild part,
The proud and the lovely before him had knelt,
But the touch of pure friendship he never had felt,
Until to his prison this frail flower came,
Which taught him to love, and his fierce pride to tame.

He knelt unto man for the life of his flower,
For his own, would have scorned to bow down to the
	power
Which had torn from him honor, fame fortune and all,
And confined a lone prisoner within the dark wall,
In those hours of darknesss it was his one joy,
His thought and his study his care and employ. 

It saved to him reason, it brought to him love,
And friendship as pure as the angel's above;
It opened at last his dark prison cell,
And placed him again 'mid life's pleasures to dwell;
He took this mute friend this companion in pain,
To share in the sunshine of freedom again.

He won for a bride the fair girl who had come,
To share with her father his dark prison home,
To smooth with her loved hand his silvery hair,
And with smiles strive to win him from sorrow and care,
It showed him the power which love has to win,
The heart from all selfishness lurking within.

Now pause I in sorrow and pain to relate,
Of his flower, his angel of blessing, the fate;
To tell its neglect in his triumph and joy,
And how this neglect its fair life did destroy:
Alas o'er my heart comes a desolate pain
Tis'the same sad life-story repeated again.

He had, placed it where beauty and light shone around,
Where moon-beams and dewdrops gleamed bright on the
	ground,
But it faded and silently passed from the earth,
While he was deep drinking of gladness and mirth;
The sunshine and moonbeams all vainly had shone,
While the light and the love of his presence were gone.
	HOPE.
S. L. City, 1877.	Sarah E. Russell


