IN THE MIDDLE STATES.

	Elder Henry Grow, who returned from
his mission to the states June 12th, left
Salt Lake Lake City Nov. 1st, 1876, having
been appointed to preside over the Penn-
sylvania Mission; he arrived in Philadel-
phia Nov. 6. He went directly to the resi-
dence of his nieces Mrs. Rapp and Mrs.
Knipe; was kindly received by them, and
during his sojourn in the east made that
his home. These two ladies were also very
hospitable to Elder A. M. Musser and other
elders whom Elder Grow invited there
from time to time; though they did not re-
ceive the Gospel they were very liberal in
their views, and kind and generous in feel-
ing.
	Br. Grow traveled, visiting the different
branches, through Montgomery, Schuylkill,
Luzerne and Lancaster Counties. In Cris-
sona, Schuylkill Co., Elder Grow preached
in Odd Fellows Hall to a very large audi-
ence one evening, the next in Shenandoah,
and the following one in Lower Marion,
each time to large audiences, and the peo-
ple seemed to pay good attention. At Fish-
beck, Montgomery Co., where he preached
also, he had relatives residing; Wm. G.
Smith, a nephew, and family entertained
himself and the elders hospitably. Br.
Grow has four sisters living in Pennsylva-
nia, their children and grandchildren and
numerous other more distant relatives;
they all treated him very kindly and were
anxious to have him stay with them; he
also met many old acquaintances and school-
fellows, and made many new friends dur-
ing his stay in that country; through the
influence of his relatives and friends he
was introduced to many influential and
worthy people, with whom he conversed on
the subject of the Gospel, the interests of
Utah, her political and social condition, etc.
There was not much chance to preach, such
a spirit of opposition was manifest among
the masses, those who have no real under-
standing of Mormonism or its bearings. Br.
Grow visited relatives of Bishop Edward
Hunter in West Chester, Penn., and had a
pleasant interview with them. One of
Elder Grow's sisters, who was in poor
health, believed his testimony and received
it, and was anxious for baptism, but died
very shortly after his arrival, without hav-
ing the opportunity to be baptized. On
her deathbed she expressed the wish to
have the ordinance of baptism, and all other
work that could be done for her, adminis-
tered by proxy. Elder Grow is under the
impression that there has been some good
seed sown in that state during the mission
of the elders recently, that will in time
spring up and bear fruit.
	The Philadelphia and other newspapers
published some considerable of the elders
and their mission in that country, which of
course was something of an advertisement
for them.
	Elder A. M. Musser called upon us and
expressed himself as having had a pleasanttime in most respects, yet there was very
little opportunity to preach the Gospel, and
none whatever in Philadelphia. The people
are most anxious to learn something of the
lives of Mormon women, the Woman Ques-
tion being a popular one at the present
time.
	Elders Musser, Grow and Whitney have
published some pamphlets at their own ex-
pense, and circulated them very largely
through that country, showing forth the
faith and practices of our people. Below
we publish Elder Musser's own statement

[Column 2]

concerning the mission of himself and the
elders who went east last fall.
	"The elders sent to Pennsylvania, Dela-
ware and New Jersey at last fall Confer-
ence, reached their fields of labor in Novem-
ber. Most of them had relatives I find in
these states, by whom they were kindly
received and treated. A good many of
these, it is believed, were awakened to the
belief that there was something in "Mor-
monism" worthy of their sincere attention.
A great deal of group-preaching was done,
there being but few opportunities to hold
public meetings, because of the great pred-
judice of the clergy and others who had
the control of churches and meeting houses.
When ministers of all denominations come
to Utah they are invited to preach in our
pulpits to large and attentive audiences,
but these courtesies are rarely reciprocated
by the clergy abroad, because of their big-
otry and narrowness. In some places halls
were obtained by the elders paying the
rent. No one would tolerate preaching in
a private dwelling house, and rarely were
schoolhouses available, for the reason that
the trustees were also religious bigots.
Some of the elders were fortunate in find-
ing openings here and there for holding
discussions and public meetings, but sel-
dom could they obtain the same place the
second time. Some 4000 pamphlets and
circular letters were gratuitously distribut-
ed during the spring months of the current
year, and it is believed that before many
days the gratifying results of the prayers,
faith, zeal and love that inspired their dis-
tribution will be seen. The printed word,
thus cast upon the waters, was composed to
especially meet the needs of the people
who were being surfeited with anti-Mor-
mon perversions concerning our people and
their practices of the most glaring kind.
The public mind had been deeply embit-
tered by the monstrous falsehoods widely
circulated by the N. Y. Herald and all the
sub-prints of the country.
	"It is truly encouraging to witness the
self-sacrificing disinterested devotion of
the elders to preach the Gospel, in the face
of the wide-spread odium everywhere over-
shadowing the noble people of Utah. No
money could induce them to undertake
such missions. It is solely the sense of duty
which they owe to their fellow-man that
impels them to take their lives in their
hands, and without "purse or scrip" or at
their own personal expense, go abroad to
proclaim liberty to the captives of sin and
Satan by showing them how they can get
back into the presence and favor of God,
from whence all mankind has been ban-
ished."


[Column 1]
