A VISIT TO KIRTLAND

   The name Kirtland is so familiar to the
large majority of your readers, that an ex-
tended preamble would be out of place.
Let it be known, however, that the place
was once a Mormon stronghold, and the
home of 40,000 people; and beside the in-
terest it has for me from this cause, it is the
birthplace of my father.
   Whoever it was that set the laws of
physical geography at such defiance as to
name is Kirtland Flats is not known, but it
is safe to assume that he was some rela-
tive to that personified paradox who intro-
duced white black-birds into the country.
Instead of flats it is all hills and dales, al-
ternating in endless variety, but withal a
charming piece of nature adorned profusely
with verdure, patches of forest and culti-
vated fields, while a clear stream of water
meanders on its sinuous way, widening,
bending, curling  over meadows in succes-
sion, till in final despair it plunges out of
sight in the intricate mazes of the woods.
The Kirtland of to day is not that of fortyyears ago- merely the shadow. The hun-
dreds of rude log houses that at one
time covered the hills and valleys, like
their inmates, have mostly disappeared.
The hum of industry has departed, and only
the occasional clink of a hammer of the
stroke of an axe may be heard where all
was once alive with the noise of trade and
manufacture. The aspect is one of general
retrogression, and the home of a thriving
colony is now the dwelling place of a few
hundred souls who seem in appearance the
fast dying remains of the lethargy which
surrounds them. The Mormon Temple,
alone tells the story of the past. On an
eminence facing the east, it rears its head
in solemn dignity above the surrounding
elevations and scattered wrecks of the
buildings it has survived, a weather-stained
relic of a former greatness- an inanimate
Marius on the ruins of Carthage. Above
the front entrances, which are reached by
two flights of broad stone steps, the gilded
inscription "Built by the Church of Jesus
Christ- 1834," still shines bright as ever,
but the original appearance of the walls out-
side has been wrought upon materially by
the wear and tear of the elements.
   When the Mormons left Kirtland, the
building fell into the hands of Grandison
Newell, a bitter and active persecutor of
the Church, who disposed of it for a few
hundred dollars to another, who in turn dis-
posed of it to some one else. It was pur-
chased finally by Joseph Smith jun., the
son of the martyred Prophet, in whose pos-
session it still remains, being used as a
place of worship by his followers. These
are called "Josephites," but call themselves
"True Latter-day Saints," in distinction to
the Latter-day Saints, or "Mormons," of
Utah, whom they regard in anything but
a spirit of brotherly kindness, as heretics
who have wandered into the wilderness
away from the standard of truth. Presi-
dent Young they call an usurper, and be-
cause he nobly shouldered the labors and
sorrows of a down-trodden people, and
pushed the work ahead under the most try-
ing circumstances of its history, instead of 
letting it lay aside for sixteen years waiting
for their jumping-jack ideal to spring from
his trap, consider him the personification
of all that is bad. The sect around Kirt-
land numbers but few, and are generally
despised by the other inhabitants, but
whether deservedly or not I am unable to
say. They oppose gathering, and are scatter-
ed from Dan  Beersheba, the headquarters
being at Plano, Ills., where the leader now
resides. According to their own accounts,
the glory of their evangelical achieve-
ments is something startling, o'ertopping
imagination- if imagination can o'ertop
itself. The Mormons of Utah are being
converted "en masse," acknowledge the
error of their ways, and on the word of
command from the Josephite leader will
rally around his standard. My informant,
the Superintendent of the Temple, after I
had expressed my open-mouthed surprise
(?) at being told things that a life of twenty-
two years in Salt Lake City had failed to 
apprise me of, was in his turn astonished
to hear that I was a recent arrival from
Utah, but with an admirable quickness he
regained his composure and told me these
things were great secrets. The work in
Utah was carried on very privately, no
Mormon having the least suspicion of it.
I was puzzled. My finite mind could not
grasp this problem, and dreading the fate
of Hugh Miller I determined to investi-
gate it no further. That system of religion
which can convert a man and keep it a
profound secret from him, is indeed "fear-
fully and wonderfully made."
   All who come to Kirtland explore the Tem-
ple and register their names, a nominal fee
being collected by the one who has charge
of the premises. On the first floor, where the
religious services are held, the walls are in
a tolerably good condition. The two rows
of pulpits with the letters designating the
grades of the Priesthood, face each other
from the opposite ends of the apartment,
and, excepting some of the seats, remain
in statu quo. The place is well furnished
with seats and facilities for  lighting up.
The rollers on the lofty ceiling show that
it was once divided by curtains, while
everything betrays a beautiful economy
and convenience of design and execution.
 On the next floor, to reach which we re-
turn to the hall and ascend a flight of stairs,
the walls and scanty furniture are in a bare
and shattered state. A placard informs us
that this was once the "School of the
Prophets;" but is now used, when permis-
sion is given, for school exhibitions, temper-
ance revivals, lectures, and other entertain-
ments requiring a room of its size. A no-
tice nailed to a pillar, after an "impartial"
and charitable (?) synopsis of Mormonism,
and a slur on its leader, announces that
"We (the Josephites) wish it distinctly un-
stood that we are no part of the L. D. S. of
Utah, we have nothing to do with them;
(and yet the mighty work of conversion
goes on) we are not Mormons."
   My cousins, who accompanied me on the
visit, had been bantering me heretofore,
on the supposition that the Salt Lake Mor-
mons and the Josephite faction were iden-
tical- an idea which is very general, not-
withstanding the announcement quoted
above- hence, in view of the decided aver-
sion in which they held the latter, it was
with a degree of satisfaction that I pointed
out this confirmatory evidence to my pre-
vious denial.
   We now ascended to the third floor, went
through a succession of small rooms con-
taining crippled benches, blackboards ruined
walls, and other paraphernalia which in-
dicated that at some period of the Temple's
history this part had been used as a pri-
mary school.
   After ascending to the belfry by a flight
of steps in the last stages of delirium trem-
ens, and taking a bird's eye view of the
surrounding country, we descended to the
office, registered our names and departed.
   Some others of the old buildings associa-
ted with the early history of the Mormon
Church, yet remain; among these are the
Kirtland bank, now occupied by a private
family,  and Gilbert and Whitney's old
store, still used for  original purposes and
wearing a look as solemn and equivocal as
a stepmother's invitation to dinner.
							IAGO. 
				[illegible signature]
-Salt Lake Herald.


