WOMAN'S VOICE.

 If we attain the position of true mothers
in Israel we will have a great deal to ac-
complish.  In a family capacity we have
our children to watch over and teach.
Mothers never think your boys and girls
too old to be taught and instructed; we can
teach them a great deal by example; never
say or do in the presence of your children
what you would not like to see in them.
Teach them the principles of the Gosepl by
example as well as precept; let them un-
derstand when they are eight years old that
it is their duty to be baptized for the re-
mission of their sins, and become mem-
bers in the Church of Jesus Christ.  Teach
them to be strictly honest and truthful.
Teach your children the law of tithing, and 
let them see you observe it in every partic-
ular yourself. Sisters of the Relief Society,
these are small things, but they are of
great importance.  Do we not all wish our
children to be saved in the Kingdom of
God? Then let us lay the foundation for
them to build upon.
 As mothers in Israel, we should also be
mindful of our duties in our ward districts;
to watch over and care for the poor and
aged; let us render all possible assistance
wherever it is needed.  Comfort those who
are called to mourn, and be always ready
to lend a helping hand to the weak. We
need not go far from home to seek for op-
portunities to do good.  I know the major-


ity of the sisters are striving to do the best
they can, and without doubt, we have
among us the best people on the face of the
earth; but still, sometimes I think we
could improve very greatly in some respects.
We should be charitable toward each other,
if we find one weak in faith, try to
strengthen that one, and show by our ac-
tions that we are willing to help them
along. Let us cease fault-finding, and light
speaking and everything that has the ap-
pearance of evil. Let our light so shine
that all may see we are of a truth mothers
in Israel.
	I think every mother should have the
EXPONENT in her house, I read it with
pleasure and wish it success.
