[Vol31 | November 1944 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty Years Ago]

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponents, October 1, and October 15, 1884 "The RIGHTs OF THE WOMEN OF ZION, AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ALL NATIONS" What Women Are Doing: A statue to a woman has been unveiled recently in New Orleans. The first erected to a woman in the United States. It is to Margaret Houhgery, who devoted her immense wealth to the care of orphan children.
Women took out patents during the week ending September 30, 1884, as follows:. Heat Indicator for ovens...
Combined bureau and bedstead; also combined folding bedstead and table.... The following patents were granted to women:... Improved Gridiron... Fruit Press...
Device for raising and lowering windows.—Ex. * *e % Editorial Notes: We gratefully acknowledge a beautiful bouquet of choice late flowers, which came like a sunbeam, from Mrs. Jane Holt of East Bountiful; also some pretty, sweet-scented wild flowers and gaily colored Autumn leaves, from little Caroline Crocheron.
Salt Lake City Hospitals. Mrs. B. Spurlock: "For whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven the same is my brother and sister and mother," prompted me to seek out those whose hearts were tender and true to suffering humanity; that I might clasp hands with them and whisper a word of comfort to those whose keeping was entrusted to their care in this city.
First in course I came to St. Marks Hospital, well governed methought...
Here we found the kind, intelligent gentlewoman, Mrs. Prout, in the keeping of the same, who has given direction and carried it forward for years.
Every where an atmosphere of comfort and quiet and continuous attention is to be observed... Next I visited the "Hospital of the Holy Cross."
This name, too, is talismanic, and no misnomer, wide spreading grounds beautifully designed, and a magnificent building, delighting the eye of the passer-by and cheering the incoming patients. Here "'Sisters of the Sacred Heart" are moving up and down the commodious halls, in and out of the wards with noiseless tread". Third, and last in our course, came the "Deseret Hospital"...
Here we find the old Deseret University converted into an "infirmary," giving to its inmates large, airy rooms, well arranged and a delightful ventilation. An air of home-like feeling you on its very threshold. See I will say of these homes for the afflicted: They have no holidays or ' red tape"... I have ever found the same watchful vigilance and tender care being evinced.. On his eighty-fourth birthday, Mr. George Bancroft received congratulations from all parts of the world, cablegrams coming from Germany, England, and France, The Cover: The cover is from a photograph of the bridge in Liberty Park, Salt Lake City, Utah. I love moonlight on the Mountains Though it is somber scene, There's no riot of bright Colors, Just a grayish slivery sheen All about is Peace and quiet Very restful, as a whole.
Though it doesn't feed the senses, It is manna to the soul, There's no music from the Say birds, They're half sleeping in their nests, And the gaudy, vivid flowers Don a gray robe while at rest, But the silhouettes and shadows Sketched in shady black and white Seem to Soothe my troubled Spirits, Seem to calm my fears and fright. As I look upon the beauty Of this scene, to me so dear, To all Nature I feel closer, And I know that God is Near.