[Vol31 | November 1944 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers Hinckley]

Visiting Teachers' Messages Sources of Strength? The Beatitudes Lesson 5?Blessed Are the Merciful Elder Bryant S. Hinckley For Tuesday, February 6, 1945 "Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy" (Matthew 5:7; III Nephi, 12:7). Objective: To show that mercy, essential to God's plan, is an ennobling quality important in our relationships with our fellow men. O be merciful is to have a heart made warm with the sunshine of kindness. If we are merciful, we search for the best in our fellows, instead of the worst; we seek extenuating circumstances, rather than incriminating ones; we are slow to condemn, and quick to commend.
Mercy is a spontaneous expression of a loving heart. If we are merciful, we naturally think and say the best possible of our erring brother.
When justice is meted out, we all plead for it to be tempered with mercy.
Alma in speaking to his son Corianton expounded the doctrine of justice and mercy. (See Alma 42) The divine injunction to be merciful is magnificently expounded in Shakespeare's portrayal of the 664 character of Shylock in the Merchant of Venice?when Shylock demands his pound of flesh because the bond prescribes that he may do so.
Then it is that Shakespeare puts into the mouth of the noble Portia these eloquent words: The quality of mercy is not strain'd, It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven Upon the place beneath. It is twice bless'd; It blesseth him that gives and him that takes. "Tis mightiest in the mightiest: it becomes The throned monarch better than _ his crown; His sceptre shows the force of temporal power, The attribute to awe and majesty, Wherein doth sit the dread and fear of kings; But mercy is above this sceptred sway,  It is an attribute to God himself; And earthly power doth then show likest God's, When mercy seasons justice. (Merchant of Venice, Act 4, Scene I) The way to obtain mercy is to exercise it toward others. Let us be -assured that any man or woman who cherishes resentments and grudges, and who is intolerant toward others, is closing the door that opens the way to his own forgiveness, for in the final analysis the feelings that are in our own souls, the emotions that play upon our hearts determine whether or not we shall be the recipients of the mercy of God, and upon this rests our own forgiveness and our exaltation.