[Vol31 | November 1944 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Story Continuation]
The  Pearl  of  Great  Price 
Eldei  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
THE  Pearl  of  Great  Price  is  the  Joseph  Smithj  containing  ''an  Ex- 
title  of  a  small  volume  which  tract  from  a  Translation  of  the  Bible, 
has  been  accepted  by  the  Being  the  twenty-fourth  chapter  of 
Church  as  one  of  the  standard  Matthew,  commencing  with  the 
works.  It  is  a  compilation  of  "reve-  last  verse  of  the  twenty-third  chap- 
lations,  translations,  and  narrations/'  ter.  King  James'  Version,"  and  ex- 
taken  from  the  history  and  inspired  cerpts  from  the  history  of  Joseph 
writings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and'  (4)  The  Articles  of 
Smith.    The  first  edition  was  pub-  Faith. 
lished  in  Liverpool  by  Franklin  D.  The  revision  of  the  Bible  by  reve- 
Richards,  who  was  then  presiding  in  lation  commenced  shortly  after  the 
the  European  Mission,  in  the  year  organization    of    the    Church    and 
1851.    The  first  edition  contained  a  when  Sidney  Rigdon  came  into  the 
number  of  excerpts  and  revelations  Church  he  was  called  to  act  as  scribe 
which  were  later  eliminated  because  for  the    Prophet.     The    additional 
they  appear  in    the    Doctrine  and  scripture  which  we  have  received  in 
Covenants.    These  are:  "A  key  to  these    few    pages,   which    comprise 
the  revelation  of  John,"  section  77  about  as  much  as  does  the  Book  of 
in  the    Doctrine    and    Covenants;  Mark,  is  of  the  greatest  value  to  the 
the  prophecy    on  war,    section  97,  Church  because  of  the  additional 
Doctrine  and   Covenants;   passages  light  which  is  revealed    concerning 
from  sections  20,  107,  27;  and  the  the  history  and  doctrine  of    those 
hymn  by  Elder  John  Jacques— "O  early  times  before  the  flood,  making 
Say,  What  Is  Truth?"    In  this  com-  known  the  fact  that  the  fullness  of 
pilation  the  prophecy  on  war,  which  the  gospel  was  given  to  Adam  and 
was  given  Christmas  Day,  1832,  was  his  posterity.    In  this  record  many 
published  for  the  first  time,  and  it  of  the  precious  truths  which    were 
will  be  seen  this  was  ten  years  before  taken  away  have  been  restored, 
the  rebellion  of  South  Carolina.  The  Book  oi  Abraham  is  a  trans- 
The  recent  editions  of  the  Pearl  lation  of  a  record  kept  by  Abraham 
of  Great  Price  have  been  divided  in-  which  came  into  the  hands  of  the 
to  the  following  divisions:  (1)  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  a  miracu- 
Book  of  Moses,  which  is  a  portion  lous  manner  while  he  was  residing 
of  the  revision  made  by  the  Prophet  in  Kirtland,  Ohio.    The  papyrus  on 
Joseph  Smith  of    the    Bible,  com-  which  this  record  was  v^itten  came 
mencing     with     the     ''Visions     of  from  the  catacombs  of  Egypt  and 
Moses,"  containing  the  words  which  was  purchased  by  the  saints.     The 
the  Lord  "spake  ...  at  a  time  when  detailed  account  of  how  this  hap- 
Moses  was  caught  up  into  an   ex-  pened  I  will  not  relate,  for  it  has 
ceedingly  high  mountain."  (2)  The  been  published  several  times  and  can 
BooJk  of  Abraham.  (3)  Writings  of  be  found    in    the    History    of    the 
Page  61 1