[Vol31 | November 1944 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: For Thy Griffin]
For  Thy  Bounties 
Marguerite  /.  Griffin 
^  ^  1%  yT OTHER,   I  want    to  tell  They  were  mindful  of  him  who  had 
I  y  I  you  about  something  that  sent  the  sun  and  rain  upon  the  earth, 
happened    at    school."    It  that  it  might  give  forth  its  abund- 
was  my  oldest  son.  May  he  never  get  ance.    They  had  felt  his  protection 
too  old  to  tell  me  things!     May  I  in  the  trial  they  had  passed  through 
never  be  too  busy,    nor    hurried  to  and  now,  in  their  plenty,  they    did 
listen!  not  forget. 
'Tes,  Son."  Yes,   because  of  them    we  have 
"Well,  you  know  we  usually  have  our  Thanksgiving  Day  once  a  year; 
current  events  first  thing  in  the  but  to  many  of  us  it  has  become 
morning,  but  today  the  teacher  said  synonymous  with  turkey,  plum  pud- 
we  wouldn't  have  them  any  more  dings,  and  pies.  I  have  sat  at  boun- 
every  day  like  that,  because  it's  so  teous  spreads  in  many  homes,  grate- 
much  of  the  same  thing  over  and  ful  for  the  associations  of  friends, 
over,  and  she  says  it  gets  monoton-  grateful  for  companionship,  smell- 
ous  like  saying  grace  at  meals."  ing  the  savory  odors  of  appetizing 
I  gasped  a  little,  mentally.     He  food,  enjoying  the  happy  conversa- 
went  on.  tion,  and  there  has  not  been    one 
"Then  she  asked  how  many  of  us  moment's  pause  to  give  thanks  to 
say  grace  at  home,  and,  Mother,  out  the  Great  Creator  of  all  this  good- 
of  the  whole  room  I  was  the  only  ness,  to  the  Great  Giver  of  life  it- 
one  to  raise  my  hand."  His  eyes  self.  We  just  began  to  eat  with  no 
were  wide  with  wonder.  word,  no  thought  save  our  stomachs' 
"Well,  Son,  there  must  have  been  anticipation  for  food.    And  yet  not 
others  who  live  in    homes    where  a  guest  would  leave    until    he  had 
grace  is   said.     Perhaps   they    just  thanked  his  hostess  and  praised  her 
lacked  courage  to  admit  it  after  the  wonderful  meal, 
teacher    had    so    emphatically    ex-         It  would  have  been  the  greatest 
pressed  her  opinion."    And  that   is  breach    of    etiquette    not    to    have 
what  I'd  like  to  believe.  I  hope  that  recognized  the  gifted    hands    who 
schoolroom  does    not  represent    a  had  done  the  cooking  or,  at  least, 
typical  cross  section  of  this  great  na-  had  planned  it.    She  had  made  the 
tion.  most  of  every  flavor  and  spice.  She 
Oh,  America,  do  you  no  longer  had  blended  them  harmoniously,
