LITERATURE
======================================================================

LITERATURE Lesson III. (Twenty Minutes.) Ten minutes talk on Current Events. Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin: LESSON III. Subject: Franklin's struggle in England. Reference: Chap. II and III, Autobiography. 1. Franklin's disappointment in regard to letter of assistance. (a) Gov. Keith breaks promises. (b) Franklin left on own resources in a strange land. 2. Work in English Printing Houses. (a) Spends first year at Palmer's. Writes pamphlet. (b) "Works for Watts. Works at press, in composing room, and at dispatch work. 3. Effects of Franklin's habits of temperance. (a) On himself. , (b) On companions in printing house. 4. Friendships with landlady in Duke street. 5. Franklin as a swimmer. Effect on health. 6. Negotiations with Mr. Denham for mercantile business. QUESTIONS. 1. What was the secret of Franklin's success in making friends so readily? 2. Were Franklin's experiences with Gov. Keith a hindrance or a benefit to him? Why? 3. Mention two advantages he had over his associates in the office because of his temperate habits. 4. What opportunities did he have for obtaining books to read? 5. What was the basis of his friendship with his landlady? 6. In summing up, what would you say Franklin gained by his residence in England? RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 11 MarchARCHITECTURE Lesson III. (Ten Minutes.) The Mountain Home: The mountain home: A screened porch or a series of porches. The dining porch. The Mountain Home. The mountain home should be a porch, or a series of porches, all screened, with at least one room added, that can in stormy weather be closed in and easily and quickly warmed by stove or fireplace, preferably the latter. The closed room may be provided with a sliding door on one side, that when open will make the room a part of the large porch. The kitchen should be devised to be open or closed tightly, for in stormy weather the food cools quickly and in hot, dry weather the cook must have the cool breeze that generally stirs in the mountains. If the cabin is set on a steep slope where the view naturally becomes the theme of interest and is the cause for selection of the site, the building may be set up on stilts, as it were. Back of the house the earth should be shoveled away to make room for a path and from this should descend the path  leading to the water supply the creek. Two rooms may be built below the porch and if more bedrooms be desired the loft (with screens on either end) may be used as a large sleeping porch. There is one absolute necessity for comfort and health in a  canyon home, that is good screens no loop-holes left for the curious gnat, horsefly, mosquito, or house-fly. All porches, windows and doors should be screened and even more important than this, the privy should be screened door, window and vault. An adjustable screen at the back of the vault will save life and prevent sickness. Preparation. Let each member design a mountain home for her own family. In this plan provide for a kitchen with stove and work-table and shelves, bathroom, if possible; if not, means for keeping wash basins and bath tub, etc. A protected porch 12 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN cover for stationary dining table and cupboard for dishes. Place for storing provisions. Clothes presses; book shelves. Suitable place for hammock. Doors leading to creek, privy and necessary windows in kitchen. Screened living porch. Closed room with sliding door on porch. ABOUT OUR BULLETINS. Stake Presidents are expected to apportion the Bulletins to Ward Presidents in strict accordance with the average attendance of the various wards, as reported in 1913. It is also suggested that these Bulletins shall be distributed at the Stake monthly meetings, which will avoid extra mailing expense. "When the ward officers fail to receive their regular or allotted number of Bulletin, complaints should be made to their Stake Presidents and not to this office. For no wards are or may be supplied from this office, except when they desire to pay for extra numbers. Extra numbers of the Bulletins for Wards or for individuals can be had at ten cents apiece, so long as they last. The January Bulletins are all exhausted. There are still some Guides left, and plenty of February Bulletins, as we printed a thousand extra to supply the unusual and gratifying demands of our friends. Address all inquiries and Bulletin business letters to Relief Society Bulletin, Room 28, Bishops' Building, Salt Lake City. OFFICERS' MEETING AT CONFERENCE. To comply with a number of requests, and to oblige our out-of-town visiting sisters at the April Relief Society Conference, it has been decided to hold the regular Officers' meeting on the second morning of our Conference, instead of the Monday or Tuesday morning, following the General Conference, as heretofore. This will enable all our sisters to be present and to take part in this important meeting. As our Relief Society Conference will convene on April 2nd, Thursday, the: RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 13 officers' meeting Will be held Friday morning. The General Conference itself is to be held on April -4th, 5th and 6th, Saturday, Sunday and Monday, which would put our officers' meeting off till the 7th. But our convention will begin on the 7th, continuing on the 8th and 9th. The notice of the change in the dates for our Genealogical Convention follows: Relief Society Convention in Genealogy. The Convention which was announced for April 1st, 2nd, and 3rd, is postponed to the following week, owing to failure to secure railroad rates. The Convention will be held on the 7th, 8th and 9th. The tickets of all delegates will hold good till this convention is over, and none should plan to come to the Convention only part of the time. This is a serious matter, sisters, and needs serious attention. If your delegates are sent here to take these lessons, let that be their prime consideration. All lesson matters should give way to this Convention. BENEFIT INSURANCE FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY. The General Board of the Relief Society have been considering for some time the advisability of introducing insurance as one department of our many activities. Insurance has proved to be a step in the right direction in many ways and; whatever there is of good or profit for women, this we eagerly seek to incorporate in our work. "With this end in view, a letter was addressed to the First Presidency and an answer received. We append both letters, which are self-explanatory. This matter will be laid fully before you at the coming April Conference. Salt Lake City, Utah, Jan. 21, 1914. Pres. Joseph F. Smith and Counsellors Dear Brethren: We would like to know your mind in 14 RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN regard to introducing some benefit insurance into the Relief Society. A number of social and other insurance companies for women are doing quite a profitable business in this community, among them being the Ladies of the Maccabees, the "Women of "Woodcraft, The Rebecca Lodge, as well as others. These fraternal orders for men and women took out of the state last year $177,213.79. The Ladies of the Macabees alone took out $11,455.91. Some of our sisters join those lodges, while others take out the small benefit insurance from regular companies, some of them located in foreign lands. The idea of having a little fund put by with which to meet burial expense is very attractive to our women. Our sisters have contributed liberally to every form of charity and public activity, such as the building of temples and meeting houses, schools and amusement halls; while doing very much towards furnishing these places. Few have acquired the saving habit, and fewer still are inculcating saving habits in the minds of the young children of today. Too many of our sisters, when they die, are left to the indifferent mercy of relatives, or to the ward authorities. They would be glad to be placed where they could have this last liberal service performed without being a burden on anyone. They could, and many would be willing, to pay a small sum monthly which would insure them their modest burial expenses. Some of our young sisters would gladly pay a small monthly sum that would mature in five, ten, or twenty years. "While most children could be taught to put by small sums monthly towards paying for their schooling or missions when old enough for that need. The habits of saving would be of more value to them in developing character than the monetary benefits. "We have applied to the Beneficial Life Insurance Company which has our President Joseph F. Smith at its head, and which is also officered by our own brethren, to give us rates and details of such a scheme as we have suggested. "We enclose a copy of the rate list made out for us. "We would expect to work entirely through the powerful, reliable and courteous company named. Agents would be appointed in each ward and stake, but the business details would be handled by the Beneficial Life Insurance Company. What premiums accrued to our Board over and above the running expenses would be turned to Relief Society work. RELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN 15 "We lay this matter before you, and trust to hear from you as soon as convenient. "We are Your sisters in the Gospel, Emmeline B. Wells, President. Clarissa S. "Williams, First Counsellor, Julina L. Smith, Second Counsellor, Salt Lake City, Utah, Jan. 27, 1913. Prests. Emmeline B. "Wells, Clarissa S. "Williams, Julina L. Smith, Relief Society. Dear Sisters: "We approve the suggestion outlined in yours of the 21st inst., to introduce and maintain a system of benefit insurance in connection with Relief Society, believing that this departure from relief work would be a means of supplying an income for the Society itself, as well as be the means of inducing and encouraging our sisters to form the habit of saving means which otherwise would doubtless be disposed of unwisely. It is understood by us that the officials of the company with whom you have been talking in regard to this matter are to render you all the necessary clerical assistance, especially at the outset, also that the company is to furnish the Society with the necessary books, etc., and otherwise co-operate with you with a view to making this movement the success we all wish it to become. Your brethren, Joseph F. Smith, Anthon H. Lund, Charles W. Penrose, First Presidency. BOOK ON