[Vol7 | June 1920 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: On the Watch Tower James H. Anderson]

ON THE WATCH TOWER 367 June 5, but neither Democrats nor Republicans were willing to take an adjournment and leave the president in control. Uruguay, South America, started a movement in April for an American league, including only nations on the American continent. The difficulties in Europe are regarded as a warning to keep aloof. Livestock losses in Utah and adjoining states, from the unusually severe storms of March and April, were very heavy. General crops, too, have been affected by the shortening of the planting season. At Jerusalem, in April, there were clashes between Moslems and Jews, resulting in a number being killed. British troops interfered and restored order, but the feeling between the combatants is very bitter. The interchurch movement among the evangelical churches in America is developing a fraternal rather than a religious union, in the progress made up to April of this year. Waste in printing, to the amount of hundreds of thousands of dollars, by government departments at Washington, was shown by a report of the committee on printing, made to Congress in April. France, Great Britain and Italy were at such variance on European questions in April that the league of nations compact between them was in danger of being thrown overboard. The difficulties were temporarily adjusted. A small-nations-league movement has been instituted in Europe, to include not only the smaller nations there, but subject peoples elsewhere, who desire to break from the larger nations now controlling them. European peoples who have been calling persistently for financial aid from America were given notice by New York bankers, in April, that this country had some financial reconstruction problems for its own worry. Mrs. Yone Susuki, a Japanese widow, is the richest woman in the world. She controls a score of big industrial plants, employs 35,000 to 40,000 workmen, and seems to give them satisfaction with her policies.