A MESSAGE TO YOUNG MOTHERS Today is all you actually have. It is eternity. Let the future rest in God's hands, have faith. "Faith is the foundation of all things — including happiness' (PRESENT Davin O. McKay). Make each day a happy, successful one, even as if it were to be your last one. Don't make the tragic mistake of putting off happiness for a future time. 'Take it as you go along. Build up rich memories for yourself and your family. 10. Try to have some planned time away from your family. Do whatever you please with it. It gives you something to anticipate. Change brings renewal. Learn to enjoy solitude; it expands the soul. Have a creative-type hobby. 11. Welcome work. Discover the satisfaction of doing things well and efficiently, and use work to "blow off steam." You would be outrageously bored without it. 12. Don't take yourself too seriously. You have gained real maturity when you can admit your own blunders and laugh at them. Keep an open mind. Discuss, don't argue. Small minds are stubbornly closed. Great minds are humble and teachable. 13. Let your virtues speak for themselves, but take every opportunity to praise another's. Pay no attention to ill-natured remarks about yourself. So live that nobody will believe them. The worst self-destructive forces in this world are anger, resentment, and self-pity. Don't let them rob you of your happiness. No momentary satisfaction is worth their terrible price. 14. Know that you must have self-respect before you can reach out to others. So live that you can like vourself and live on agreeable terms with yourself. "Love your neighbor as yourself." You can like yourself only when your conscience is at rest. Lying, for instance, destroys peace of mind and causes fear and inner turmoil, even when undetected. The so-called white lies can be avoided bv forethought and simple statements. Long explanations are not required. And, very, very important: Do some act of kindness for someone each day. Reach out to others unselfishly, willingly, kindly in your thoughts and actions. No one will ever find or keep a deep inner happiness who does not grow to this level. When in doubt, always do and say the kind thing. True friends enrich life. If you would have friends, be one. Be true to those who trust you. Mrs. Emma Ray McKay, wife of President David O. McKay, suggests that you meet your husband not fifty per cent of the way, but at least eighty or ninety per cent of the way. (Incidentally, she warns, also, not to expect your husband to make marriage his whole life, as it must be a woman's, and not to "cry over spilt milk.'') 15. Keep your mind full of beauttful, encouraging thoughts. Ruth May Fox used to pin songs, poems, or scriptures in front of her as she washed her dishes or ironed her 738 clothes or sewed. Thus, she was always memorizing some inspirational message. What a storehouse of help to have ever with you to call up when the need arises! When the going is good, tell yourself life is wonderful, and allow yourself the delightful feeling of being happy, enjoying the beautiful, believing the best. 16. Never say or do anything you wouldn't be willing to have your child copy — because he probably will. 17. Never overlook the boost a new hair-do and a neat, trim appearance can give you. Daintiness and attractiveness develop assurance and poise. (Don't confuse neatness with extravagant slavishness to current fashion trends, though. ) 18. Be thrifty. A most contagious sickness of the day is materialism. Don't race the "Joneses," race your own best potential. Remember the saying, "We spend money we don't have,-to buy things we don't need, to impress people we don't care for." No one can feel free under a load of debt. This is true slavery. 19. Salvage as much of each day as possible. Don't allow one slip to cancel all your efforts. Each wrong thought checked, each unkind word unspoken is a victory and a step ahead. Don't attempt to remodel yourself completely all at once. 'Take one trait at a time. Work on it alone for a week, or a month, or a year. When it is conquered, proceed to the next one. In a few years, you surely will have weeded out most of your own worst enemies. Don't ever forget the blessed principle of repentarice. "A man is far more imporant to God than the mistakes he has made. The gospel is from now on" (Marion Durr Hanks). Isaiah promises that the man who contritely and humbly forsakes his sins and asks for forgiveness will receive it. Then do not go back and dwell on them and probe into them, but rather forgive yourself your own mistakes, as you forgive your neighbors theirs, and gain wisdom through them. 20. Practice self-discipline in little measures daily until your will power grows stronger. Soon it will stand you in good stead in big emergencies. For example, force yourself out of bed earlier than necessary or give up a favorite fattening food. Do something difficult like addressing an audience or writing a note of pardon. 21. Remember escape is imposA MESSAGE TO YOUNG MOTHERS sible. You are ever with yourself. Relocation of home or job, trips, drugs, housewives going to work outside the home are common escape routes. They do not still the conscience or change the personality, however. You must achieve happrness within yourself regardless of your physical surroundings. Granted, some environments more readily lend themselves to pleasantry than others. But many of the saddest, most dejected people in the world reside in such "ideal" places; and truly joyful, contented, serene people can be found dwelling in poverty, pain, and hunger, even homeless. By now, you know how to stand squarely on your own two feet, neither clinging to your husband nor depending on your mother for your own emotional maturity. What you do with this information is up to you. Either you can use it and find hidden treasures of satisfaction and peace and happiness, or you can continue to limp through life on your self-made crutches. The decision lS yours.