The Pendant Hazel Cheesman Do you remember those Add-APearl necklace advertisements they used to have in the magazines? That's the way my Christmases have been. Each year another perfectly matched pearl. Every year except one. That was the year my necklace was centered with a beautiful pendant, crystal-clear and precious. It wasn't just because the children were little and still at home that that Christmas was memorable. Nor had our financial circumstances improved any — we were very poor, as usual. Certainly it wasn't because I had kept my annual resolution to have all my Christmas shopping done by October. No, it was the same mad hassle as always. Late Christmas Eve found my husband and me struggling to assemble toys from directions which would have baffled a mechanical engineer; and arranging lopsided dollhouses and bowlegged kiddy cars under the fragrant nativecedar Christmas tree, the only kind recognized as authentic by our children. I moaned for my husband's benefit as we filled the stockings, but he was not deceived. Each year he waged a futile battle to have the long, brown, cotton stockings replaced with nice, hygienic bowls. But the children had inherited my preference for sentiment over sanitation, and would fall back with outraged howls at each attempt to convert them. Nobody could hang a bowl from a mantel! He tried to persuade them it wasn't necessary to hang the bowls — they could be set out on a table 740 — but that was the final blow. After a short nap, which was all the sleep we ever got or expected on Christmas Eve, we were awakened by what sounded like a runaway freight train headed for the living room. Somehow we found our robes and slippers, and led each other through the doorway. The children had turned on the tree lights and were seated in a circle, ready for the present-passing ceremony. The lumpy stockings had already vanished, confiscated in a pre-dawn raid and emptied out on the children's beds. It took time to pry them out of the welter of toys and discarded wrappings long enough for breakfast. But even though it was very late, nobody had much appetite. Sampling their stocking contents before breakfast was frowned upon, of course, but I had a sneaking feeling the rule had been broken — again. Tins was the year for spending Christmas Day with my folks — we alternated between them and my husband's family. So while he oversaw and assisted with the children's dressing, I, efficient as always, hurried to wrap my folks' presents. I always saved the wrapping papers and ribbons, carefully pressed from the year before, which necessitated extreme caution in my gift wrapping. Not only must the package match the personality of the recipient, but also I had to be sure not to use wrappings which had come from that same person last year. (The year before was all right — nobody remembered back that far.) I had had a very artistic inspiration and had cut scenes from Christmas cards (also saved from previous years) to decorate -my packages. This required extra care, so there was double danger involved, but I felt the results justified it. I remember that was the year they first came out with those fleecy lamb's wool house slippers, and | had bought my Father a pair in a dark maroon shade, which I considered the ultimate in elegance. The sheet of paper and ribbon bow which I had set aside for his package were the most beautiful in my stock, and I lingered over my Christmas cards, searching for just the right one to add the final perfect touch, until I heard my husband calling for me to hurry. When I came out, he had the children in the car. We sang lustily as we sailed over the snowy hills toward Grandma's and Grandpa's, except when we were interrupted by a fight in the back seat loud enough to drown us out. Minor — and quieter — skirmishes were ignored. We had a wonderful day in spite of too much rich food — acres of dirty dishes — and tired, cranky children. 'Toward evening the younger ones started dropping over like flies, but nobody went home. We just carried the young ones upstairs and placed them across the beds in neat rows. The survivors, with a startling lack of judgment, gathered around the big table in the center of the kitchen and helped themselves to cold turkey and mince pie, washed down with innumerable cups of cocoa. We took a long time with the THE PENDANT dishwashing — our last excuse for lingering. But when the older children started going to sleep, we had no choice — they were too heavy to carry upstairs. Everyone came out to see us off, shivering after the warmth of the house. We could see our breath — everyone was talking at once — and the clean, fresh snow squeaked beneath our feet as we moved around the circle kissing each other goodbye. My father was laughing at something one of the children had said, and, when I turned to him, he put his arms around me and just stood there for a moment. I looked over his shoulder at the golden light streaming from the open door, rich and warm as the love which had sheltered me here through all the years. Someone had left the record player on — "O Holy Night" floated clearly on the crisp air. A Christmas tree with delicately colored candles spread its dark branches across the window, and far above us huge stars sparkled in the dark blue sky. I raised my face for my father's kiss, but he just stood there with his arms around me, looking down and smiling. For a moment, in the uncertain light, I thought there were tears in his eyes. But then he said, '"Didn't we have a nice Christmas?" and his voice sounded so happy I knew I had been mistaken. A few weeks later they mailed the package back to me, and the beautiful wrappings were hardly mussed at all. He must have opened it very carefully. I still have the maroon slippers. They don't fit anyone else.