SOCIAL SCIENCE ° Divine Law and Church Government Church Government: Its Organization and Structure Lesson 10 — Priesthood Quorums and Their Function Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Fourth Meeting, Objective: To acquaint Relief Society members with the importance of quorum organization and the obligation of quorum membership. Because the women of the Church can and do have great influence on their families, it is of the greatest importance that they understand the organization of the Priesthood quorums to which their husbands and sons belong. They must know the obligations which come with membership in a quotum, if they are to give adequate support and encouragement to the members of their families in meeting their responsibilities. The following quotation indicates the seriousness of these obligations. Wherefore, now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence. He that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand, and he that learns not his duty and shows himself not approved shall not be counted worthy to stand. Even so. Amen (D&C 107:99-100). Every ordinance, every step essential to exaltation and eternal life, is included in the power and authority of the Priesthood. It contains the complete formula for the abundant life. These things being true, it should follow that every intelligent person should be interested in and influenced by the operation of the Priesthood. PRIESTHOOD QUORUMS, THEIR MEANING AND RELATIONSHIP "The priesthood quorums [Melchizedek] are part of the revealed organization whereby adult brethren are trained and enabled to do their part in helping the Church to discharge its divine mission" (Melchizedek Priesthood Handbook, page 21). The quorum presents a most interesting social situation in regard to the loyalty of the quorum members. This loyalty can only be achieved by personal conviction as to the reality of God. 'There is no force that can command or demand this response. So far as human association is concerned, the quorum can. Be the most effective means of developing group solidarity that human beings can experience. It is built on usefulness to fellow men, based on revealed truth and motivated by love. 1. Called by Authority to Act in Church Government. The responsibility for the operation of the government of the Church is in the hands of those holding the Priesthood. However, in receiving the Melchizedek Priesthood, other than the personal prerogatives, such as administering to the sick and the performing of Priesthood rights pertaining to his immediate family, each ordained bearer can function therein only as he is delegated to do so by those who preside over him. As a quorum member, the Priesthood bearer does not possess the authorization to function in the government of the Church though he has been ordained to the Priesthood. He does have the Priesthood calling that will qualify him if he is commuissioned by one holding the office of presidency, for herein is seen the exercise of the use of the keys which have been bestowed upon those called to preside. This appears to be somewhat contradictory and confusing, but, when properly understood, it is really quite clear. The following explanation may be helpful. Membership in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is open to all people and attained only through baptism and confirmation by one holding the proper Priesthood calling. A priest holding the Aaronic Priesthood may perform baptisms if he is so directed by his bishop — the ecclesiastical line of authority. (Ecclesiastical means relating to the Church or its organization or government.) If a Melchizedek Priesthood holder ls appointed by the proper ecclesiastical authority, he has the power to baptize and confirm the person a member of the Church. Either the priest or the elder has the power to baptize, but neither can exercise 790 this power without the authorization of the proper ecclesiastical officer (bishop, stake president, Cte.). 2. Qualifications for Priesthood Ordination. With membership in the Church, male members who are worthy and sufficiently developed spiritually and _ intellectually may receive the Priesthood. Age limits have been established for the Aaronic Priesthood beginning at twelve years for a deacon and allowing a training experience of approxi mately two years for each office in this Priesthood. However, more important than age is the worthiness of the individual, his understanding of the gospel, and his knowledge of the duties and responsibilities of each Priesthood calling. Under these conditions, priests, if worthy, are normally eligible to be ordained elders at twenty years of age. However, a priest may be ordained at an earlier age if he is called on a mission or is to be married in the temple. (Aaronic Priesthood Handbook, 1963, pp. 31-32.) Variations of the suggested ages are noted in the ordination of adult converts. In such cases it is the worthiness, knowledge of the gospel, and understanding of the Priesthood responsibility that determine the recommendation for ordination. The suggested procedure for adult male converts is that they have an opportunity to function in each of the Aaronic Priesthood callings before receiving the Melchizedek Priesthood. 3. Quorum Definition. Usually the term quorum refers to a majority of the members of any organized group. To the Latter-dav Saints, however, this term has a special meaning in addition to this. To Church members the term quorum refers to all the members of a specially selected or chosen body — as an elders' quorum, the quorum of C the First Presidency. 'The quorum as an organized body of the Priesthood implies an ideal standard of conduct, a common purpose, unity of decision, and a vital interest in the welfare of each member. In reference to the quorums of the First Presidency, the Twelve Apostles, and the First Council of the Seventy, the Lord said, "And every decision made by either of these quorums must be by the unanimous voice of the same; that is, every member in each quorum must be agreed to its decisions, in order to make their decisions of the same power or validity one with the other' (D & C 107:27). This instruction was given specifically to the quorums of the General Authorities of the Church. Nevertheless, the pattern for quorum activity and the essential qualities of quorum members should be the same in all quorums of the Priesthood. In actual practice, however, an action by a majority of members in attendance carries. Aaronic Priesthood Quorums. In the Aaronic Priesthood there are three quorums, deacons, teachers, and priests. 'There are, however, four offices in this Priesthood, deacon, teacher, priest, and a bishop who is a literal descendant of Aaron. (See Lesson 8.) However, the office of a bishop filled by a high priest appointed to the office of a bishop by the First Presidency cannot be rightfully referred to as an LESSON DEPARTMENT office in the Aaronic Priesthood. 1. Deacons Quorum. The normal number of deacons to form a quorum is twelve; however, a quorum may be formed with a majority of twelve, that is, with from seven to twelve deacons. They are presided over by a presidency selected from their members by the bishopric and sustained by the quorum members. The deacon's responsibilities are temporal in nature. They pertain to the care of the meeting house and the comfort of the people who come to worship. Passing the Sacrament and collecting fast offerings are two of their assignments. They follow the bishop's direction in taking care of the needs of the members. They are to assist the teacher whenever necessary and always promote that which is good. 2. Teachers Quorum. The teachers quorum has twenty-four members but a quorum may be formed with a majority of this number of teachers, that is, with from thirteen to twenty-four teachers. The presidency is selected in the same manner as was indicated for the deacons quorum. The teacher's duty is to watch over the church always, and be with and strengthen them; And see that there is no iniquity in the church, neither hardness with each other, neither lying, backbiting, nor evil speaking; And see that the church meet together often, and also see that all the members do their duty (D&C 20:53-55). Theirs is an eternal vigilance in maintaining proper social relations among the members of the Church. They are to be available to assist the priests and elders in their work — ordinance work excepted. They may perform all duties assigned to deacons. 3. Priests Quorum. The priests quorum normally has forty-eight members; however, a quorum may be formed with a majority of this number, that is with from twentyfive to forty-eight priests. The bishop is their president and presides personally over the quorum. 'The priest has the power to perform any of the duties assigned to deacons or teachers. In addition, his duties are:... To preach, teach, expound, exhort, and baptize, and administer the sacrament, and visit the house of each member, and exhort them to pray vocally and in secret and attend to all family duties. And he may also ordain other priests, teachers, and deacons (D & C 20:46-48). 4. Social Implications. When reference is made to the temporal welfare of the Church, which is the Aaronic Priesthood assignment, we are not only thinking of the physical aspect such as buildings or food and clothing. The temporal welfare includes all of the social relations of the people. In the process of living together in families, wards, and stakes, individual differences may become the source of conflict and antagonism, or they may, under proper guidance, through accommodation and adjustment, be resolved without conflict in a stimulating and progressive environment. MELCHIZEDEK PRIESTHOOD QUORUMS In Section 124 of the Doctrine and Covenants, verse 126, referring to Joseph Smith, Sidney Rigdon, and William Law, we read "that these may constitute a quorum and First Presidency, to receive the oracles for the whole church." This 792 is the first quorum in the Melchiz-. Edek Priesthood. In the same Section the following quorums were designated and became the pattern for the Church: the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, High Priests, Seventies, and Elders. In addition to the offices represented in the quorums of the Melchizedek Priesthood, there is the office of a patriarch. There are differences in the various duties and assignments of the various offices in the Melchizedek Priesthood — in reality, a division of labor that is essential to orderly operation of the government of the Church. This division of labor promotes the efficient advancement of the work for which the Priesthood is responsible. 1. The General Authorities of the Church. The quorums that constitute the General Authorities of the Church include the First Presidency, Quorum of the Twelve, the First Council of Seventy, and the Presiding Bishopric. The brethren in these quorums are all ordained high priests (with the exception that not all of the First Council of Seventy have been ordained high priests), but they also have the special office and calling pertaining to the duties and responsibilities of the assignment given to their particular quorum in the administration and operation of the government of the Church. The term "General Authorities" applies only to the members of the quorums listed in this paragraph and to the Patriarch to the Church and the Assistants to the Council of the Twelve. 2. High Priests Quorum. "High priests after the order of the Mel- chizedek Priesthood have a right to officiate in their own standing, under the direction of the presidency, in administering spiritual things..." (D & C 107:10). The high priest has the power to act in any office in the Priesthood when properly called and set apart for that office. To the high pnest is assigned the office of presidency. The Quorum of High Priests includes all ordained to this office within a stake. Any number of high priests within a stake are regarded as a quorum. 'They are presided over by a presidency of three selected from their membership. They hold one quorum meeting a month. However, the quorum members living in each ward of the stake are organized into groups with a group leader, a secretary, and a class instructor. 'They meet in groups each Sunday morning, a lesson is presented, and they receive instruction and direction from the quorum presidency. 3. The Quorum of Seventy. The Seventies Quorum is composed of seventy members; seven of the members are set apart as presidents. Thus this quorum is unique in numbers and organization. Whereas seventy is the normal number it would be regarded as a quorum if there were at least thirty-six members. Seventies in two or more wards or branches may compose a single seventies quorum. 'They would meet weekly in each ward or branch as a group, and monthly as a quorum. They are called as special witnesses to preach the gospel to all the world under the direction of the Twelve Apostles. Their meeting pattern is similar to that of the high priests. LESSON DEPARTMENT 4. The Elders Quorum. The elders quorum consists of ninetysix members, three of whom constitute the presidency. Often there are enough elders in each ward to form a quorum. A quorum may be organized if there are forty-nine elders in the ward (the majority of ninety-six). 'The quorum holds a meeting each Sunday morning. One meeting a month is devoted to quorum business, the others to instruction. The policy of the Church is to have every elder attached to a quorum, and where a sufficient number are not available in a given area, boundary lines are adjusted to make this possible. Elders in two or more wards or branches may compose a single elders quorum. In such a case, the quorum members of each ward usually meet weekly as a quorum group, and monthly as a quorum much the same as do the seventies and high priests. In a general sense, the term elder is applied to any man holding the Melchizedek Priesthood. It is often used in reference to an apostle. It is quite generally used when reporting the labors of a seventy or high priest. THE UNIT The term unit is used in connection with Priesthood organization in two situations. (1) It is possible in a stake to have less than the required number of seventies to form a quorum. The required number would be thirty-six or more. For example, in the event that there are twenty-five seventies only in the stake, a unit may be organized with a leader with two assistants and a secretary. (2) In the mission field seventies' units are not likely but elders' units may be necessary. Where there are fewer than fortyeight elders in the mission field or where distance is an inhibiting factor in successful meetings, units may be set up with the same organization as indicated above. Most of the program of the seventy and elder quorums can be carried on in the unit organization. PRIESTHOOD OBJECTIVES The mission of the Church and the mission of the quorums is one and the same. It is stated as being threefold: (1) To carry on missionary work — to carry the message of the gospel to all the people of the world. (2) To perfect the saints — to develop a full realization of each person's possibilities under the direction of divine counsel and guidance. (3) To perform temple work — to provide the same opportunity for perfection to the worthy dead as to the living. Priesthood quorums are part of the revealed organization whereby adult brethren are trained and enabled to do their part in helping the Church to discharge its divine mission. To accomplish their mission quorums have four primary objectives: 1. To promote gospel scholarship by teaching the doctrine of the gospel. 2. To provide opportunities for Church service. 3. To care for the temporal, intellectual, and spiritual welfare of all quorum members and their families. 794 4. To provide adequate fellowship and fraternalism through socials, athletics, and the like for all quorum members (Melchizedek Priesthood Handbook, page 20). POWER IN THE PRIESTHOOD Standing on top of the Grand Coulee Dam in the State of Washington, one may watch the tremendous flow of water and be truly awed at the power of this man-made waterfall. Inside the dam the harnessed power of this waterfall turns the battery of turbines which turn the dynamos producing an amazing volume of electrical energy. This energy turns the wheels of industry in the northwestern area of the United States at the same time providing light at night for many cities and for hundreds of thousands of family homes. 'This power is the product of the ingenuity of man. In comparison with the Priesthood of God, this man-made power is insignificant. Yet God has made his power available by conferring it upon man. This power, by which worlds were and are created and man himself came into being, is in the hands of the Priesthood bearer. The Priesthood has been given through divine law for the welfare and perfection of the saints. In the objectives listed above, the major task assigned to the quorums of Melchizedek Priesthood holders is the perfection of the saints through the operation of the government of the Church. This operation deals with people and provides direction for human conduct which will open the way whereby the human family may live together in peace. The Priesthood is the very lifeblood of the Church and kingdom of God. It is the unlimited knowl- edge, wisdom, power (force), experience, and love of God for all of his children. The only limitation upon the Priesthood bearer in the use of this power is his application of the principles of the gospel in his life, and his knowledge and understanding of the great plan of salvation. He must learn his duties, and not be slothful. As has been stated before, man can receive the fulness of the Priesthood only in observance of the new and everlasting covenant of marnage. (D & C 131:2.) The woman thus becomes a full participant in the blessings and glorious promises of the Priesthood covenants. She, therefore, has a challenging opportunity to assist her husband and sons by knowing the gospel, the requirements placed on her husband and sons in the discharge of their Priesthood duties, and by being a LESSON DEPARTMENT constant source of inspiration to them to fulfill their callings honorably. REFERENCES The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 20, 107, 127. WiwTsor, JoHn A.: Priesthood and Church Government, Chapters 11, 12, 13. TaLMAGE, JAMES E.: Articles of Faith, Chapter XI. THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. When and under what conditions were the Priesthood quorums set up? 2. What is the relationship between Priesthood and Church government? 3. What do you think are the essential qualifications for a man to receive the Priesthood? 4. Why is it necessary to have such an extended division or set of offices and callings in the Priesthood? 5. What is the woman's responsibility for opportunity in the operation of the Priesthood? (Refer to DHC IV, page 602.)