SEWALL.

	Mrs. May Wright Sewall, of Indianapolis,
chairman of the executive committee next de-
livered an address which for argument, wit
and eloquence would challenge comparison
with the best efforts of our public men. She
held the audience enchained for an hour and a
half, and we only regret that any report for
which we have space must be meagre and pro-
saic in comparison with the flood of proof, per-
suasion, sentiment, humor and pathos which by
turns characterized this masterly speach.
"Now, I say," she began, "that there is no
argument that can be found in Burke or Jeffer-
son (referring to what Mr. Poppleton had said)
which gives to the right hand of American
manhood the ballot, which does not logically
give it to woman—or, if it denies it to woman
would not exlude men therefrom. If these doc-
trines mean anything they mean as much for
me as for any man. I am a person—I was born
within the jurisdiction of the United States,
and subject to it and to that of the state in
which I reside. The tax-payer passes by my
property no more than any male citizen; I am
amenable to the criminal laws the same as any
male fellow citizen. The women of every state
and city are citizens on the street, at the police
station, in the jail, even on the scaffold—why
are they not citizens on election day at the
ballot-box? Logically and abstractly the
women of the United States have the abstract
right to be citizens at the polls. But gentle-
men tell me that we do not live in a world of
abstract principles; but that in this concrete
world it is not what is right, but what is ex-
pedient that must decide the fate of every
new measure. Now that which is right is, by
necessity of its righteousness, expedient; and
naught can be expedient which in itself is not
right. But I will meet you on the basis of ex-
pediency alone. I will consider such objec-
tions as I have encountered only in Nebraska.
Indiana men are much more prolific and in-
genious in objections than Nebraska men.
	Mrs. Gougar (interrupting): Mrs. Sewall,
I think, underrates the capacity of Nebraska
men, because she has been here only ten days;
I have found them quite as prolific in objec-
tions as Indiana men. (Laughter.)
	Mrs. Sewall: Well, be that as it may,
here are some of the arguments I have encoun-
tered. The first is, that a class not having the
physical strength to execute the laws should
not make them. Now it strikes me that the
gentlemen who produced this objection could
not with very good effect have carried a
musket. It must have been originally made
either by a boy who had just celebrated his 21st
birthday party (at his mother's expense) or by
a man who had passed his allotted three score
and ten. But this is a republic in which we
live, and what is the meaning of a republic?
It means a government which rests not on
physical strength alone, but purely and solely
on majority opinion. To make a republic
humanity must be developed sufficiently to re-
spect the right of opinion. The republic needs

[Column 2]
not the sword and the gun, except for its pre-
servation as a state. Three times, indeed, we
of America have fought it out by physical
strength. But, though that be so, is it still a
fact that fitness for war is the condition of the
exercise of citizenship? Even if that be so I
am still able to vindicate our right. The
physical statistics of the war—two of the eight
volumes of which are issued—show at the be-
ginning out of every 1,000 men called on to
bear arms 278 were exempted; while in the
later stages of the war, after the first enthusiasm
had passed, and the government proceeded by
draft, 385 out of every thousand were exempted
—a full one-third, from beginning to end—on
account of physical capacity. If this rule were
applied then it would disfranchise one male
elector in every three. But there is another
page in military service—that which records
the deeds of women who throughout the war
gave up their lives to their country. More
than 100,000 women actively participated in
the war in camp, hospital, and field, and the
majority of them faced the dangers of the field
unweaponed.
	But in Nebraska I have found a most touch-
ing fear in regard to the purity of the women
who shall vote. [Laughter.] When confronted
with this danger, I ask to see the statutes which
make purity and uprightness in men the con-
dition on which they shall vote. [Applause.]
Gentlemen, first apply this rule to yourselves
and then you may apply it to us. But is it
not always true that those who participate in
the first results of any great popular movement
are those who carried it on to consummation?
Was it the fallen women who first raised this
demand for the ballot? Nay; it was the
Lucretia Motts, and not the Magdalens of
Philadelphia who began the movement, and it
was not the Magdalens of New York and of
Boston who rallied about Lucretia Motts; but
whatever was at that time best in womanly cul-
ture and character, and later what was best in
social position—these it has been who have
taken up the work begun by those pure and
noble women; and to day, the learned, the wise
and the good of the nations of Europe rise up
only to prostrate themselves at the feet of the
woman (Elizabeth Cady Slanton) whose honors
everywhere abroad are those of a Queen. And
here in Nebraska, as I find, it is not the fallen
and degraded who have come forth to welcome
me. What excuse have the women to give
who come late to our meetings? They come
not from wicked orgies, but from gatherings of
the Christian temperance women, from meet-
ings of Sunday school teachers, from commit-
tees of local literary clubs—these are the women
who are doing the work for suffrage and for
equality before the law in Nebraska (great ap-
plause.) But granting that bad women come:
—I to-day have learned from one of our even-
ing papers that even bad women have a very
elevating effect upon public men. To-day was
"Ladies' Day" in our police court, and this re-
port informs me that the judge appeared on
this occasion with a clean dickey and collar!
(Laughter). Now if bad women have such an
effect on your judges what may we not expect
of them on community at large? But I have
heard a most profound reason why bad women
will alone come to the polls—because, I am told,
the good women won't! But what do the re-
cords show concerning those who ask for the
ballot? Among all the literary women in this
country there are just three who declare that
they will not vote; while in the long lists of
women engaged in works of philanthropy,
charity, and moral reform, not one name ap-
pears in protest; these are our suffragists—
everywhere, the women who were foremost in
every good work. But, says another, the
ignorant women will vote. Ah, this is distres-
sing! it is agonizing! But where, will you in-
form me, is the statute on Nebraska's books


[Column 1]
that makes intelligence in men the condition of
franchise? Were that condition made, the re-
sult, I am glad to say, would be less disastrous
in Nebraska than in any other state, for the
census shows that you have less ratio of illit-
eracy than any of your sister states. But, in-
sisted a noted clergyman, the illiterate women
and the unvirtuous women will "vititate the
polls." Here is an item of news, indeed,
worthy a place in your press reports!
	But, says another, it won't do to have woman
suffrage in Nebraska—not that it is not right
enough, but it involves such a waste of time;
the wives would merely duplicate the votes of
their husbands anyhow, daughters of their
fathers and sweethearts of their lovers. But it
naturally suggests itself that there is such a
state of harmony in Nebraska, let us have the
the vote by all means, if for no other reason
than to illustrate the harmony. [Laughter.]
But another said that not a Nebraska woman
would vote as her husband does. But if there
is so much intelligence, and so great intel-
lectual liberty in the homes of Nebraska as
this statement involves, no harm can surely
come from the ballot; it would then become a
safety-valve; the wife who votes against her
husband has simply neutralized the vote she
doesn't believe in, and there is no further
ground of quarrel over a mere difference of
opinion. [Laughter and applause.]
	But, objects another, it is not because the
women do think or do not think just like their
husband's that I oppose woman suffrage, but
because none of the women want to vote. This
certainly shows a remarkable deference in the
male voter to the opinion of those who have no
political influence. But perhaps the woman
who doesn't want the ballot has never been
frankly asked whether she does; perhaps the
husband's ridicule, scorn and contempt have
prevented a free declaration. When I hear
men saying that they are willing that women
should vote, but they do not wish it and there-
fore they (the men) will not vote for the amend-
ment, I say that I respect the ballot too much
to make plea; not on this gound, but because
you frankly do not believe in woman suffrage,
should you vote against it. For such an ex-
pression of individual conviction, and not for
the puerile plea urged, do I have respect.
[Applause.]
	Again, I hear it objected that your pure
wives and daughters must not be brought down
into the mire of politics. My father, and
brother, and husband, have always voted, and
they stand there in "the mire of politics" with
unsullied feet, and with a pure heart and clean
hands. But if politics be so base, who made
it so? Whatever their conditions are they are
conditions of manhood's making. But this is
the old argument of the ages—to keep woman
subordinate, not tyranically but in ignorance.
This argument, 'til within a few generations,
kept women from the table with men—kept
girls out of schools, and it kept women out of
the professions and trades. Why, then, did
God send boys and girls in the same family?
The struggle in Boston over the admission of
girls to the public schools was reounted; and
it is only within ten years that they have en-
tered the Latin schools with the boys, nor have
their morals been corrupted. And now, at
last, everywhere, women have entered the
schools, the professions and the trades, they
have become the queens of the social world,
and what has become of their purity and mod-
esty, what do American men who have traveled
abroad say? That nowhere in all the world are
there found such women as America's women
—[great applause]—nowhere such purity with
such freedom; nowhere is so high a price set on
virtue, and nowhere are the homes of the peo-
ple so well admired. What makes it so?
It is the air of freedom which we, women and
men of the new world have breathed in this

[Column 2]
home, in the school, in the working occupations
and in society—the only atmosphere compat-
ible with the highest virtue. Why fear for its
health should we go to the ballot-box with
you? [Great applause.] After referring to the
objections that the ballot would destroy dom-
estic felicity—that it could not help having a
bad effect on women—and others of the same
character, the speaker asked what is it that has
made the American citizen great? Is it our
great rivers, mountains, plains and forests?
Nay, it has been the consciousness of his indivi-
duality and of the right to his individuality.
The outward conditions are good; they do in-
deed help to develop the man, but not till the
institutions of freedom have given him capacity
to develop himself. If the franchise makes
man more self-helpful and self-respectful will
it not have the same effect on American
women ? Shall we not, like you, grow in dig-
nity and self-respect ? In reply to the objection
that woman has no real reason for voting, the
speaker said that man claimed the need of it to
protect his property and his occupation.
Woman, it is true, has less property than man;
but as I need it, the less I have the more need
that I be able to protect it. But women as
well as men have industrial interests. In place
of seven anti-domestic occupations thirty years
ago the women of Indiana now have fifty-eight,
and those of New England have 85; and in
Indiana 21,000 women make their living in
productive industries. If there were but 21,
000 men in Nebraska who thus made their liv-
ing, would they not need the ballot as much
as do the 90,000 now?" In conclusion the
speaker pictured the delight that would reign
in women's hearts when they could stay at
home and enjoy protection in their sphere by
enjoying their rights outside of it. We want
the ballot to protect us in that sphere, what-
ever it is. Ex.


