SUMMIT STAKE.

	The Semi-Annual Conference of the Relief
Societies of Summit Stake was held at Kamas
on Friday, Sept. 1st, 1882. The Conference
was well attended, nearly all the Ward Socie-
ties being represented. Presidents Cluff and
Pack, of the Stake authorities, were present as
were also Sisters Howard and Horne, from Salt
Lake City. The Conference was presided over
by President Mary J. Attwood. The Kamas
choir furnished excellent singing. The various

[Column 2]
﻿Society reports were read, and verbal represen-
tation of all save three were given by duly auth-
orized representatives, from which we learned
that the Stake organization was in a prosperous
condition.
	The Conference was addressed by Pres. M. J.
Attwood and Counselors Ann Cluff and Ruth
Pack, chiefly upon matters of local interest,
and of an appropriate nature. They were fol-
lowed by Sisters Howard and Horne; they
spoke in their usual interesting manner, upon
matters of general interest to the Societies.
Their remarks were listened to with marked
attention and were much appreciated. Sister
Howard complimented, in the course of her re-
marks, the sisters of the Kamas Society upon
the cleanly appearance of the meeting house,
and upon the neatness and order that was
manifest in the room.
	Presidents Cluff and W. E. Pack, made a
few cheering remarks, spoke encouragingly of
the work being done by the Societies in general;
and gave some good and appropriate instruc-
tions applicable to our present circumstances.
	Sister Eliza Rhead, President of the Y. L,
M. I. Associations, spoke in behalf of that
organization.
	On the following day (Saturday forenoon)
the Y. L. M. I. A., met in Conference, and the
afternoon was devoted to the Primary Associa-
tions, Sister L. Roundy, President. Both
meetings were addressed by Sisters Horne and
Howard. The remarks of Sister Horne at the
Y. L. and Primary meetings were replete with
good and appropriate counsel and advice, and
were given in such a pleasing and simple man-
ner, that the juvenile audience were highly
pleased and interested. Their bright and in-
telligent countenances showing to the observer
that they were highly pleased and edified in her
remarks to them.
	The Conference adjourned to meet in Coal-
ville on the first Friday in March next.
	This Conference was one of the best ever held
in the Stake; and let us hope that we will be
benefited thereby. All were highly pleased
and gratified with the visit of Sisters Howard
and Horne.				J. S. BOYDEN.

