HOME AFFAIRS.

	Report of Women's Conferences Salt Lake,
Utah and Tooele Stakes are held over till next
issue, also the continuation of "A Repre-
sentative Woman;"and several other interesting
articles.
	CORRECTION: In WOMAN'S EXPONENT of
October 1, No. 9, in the article entitled Scenes
and Incidents, In Nauvoo, two errors occur, one
is the date of July 8, 1844, which should be June
8, 1844; the other Gen. Wm. Law which should
read Gen. Wilson Law.


COMPENDIUM: People who wish to obtain a
knowledge of the principles and doctrines of the
Latter-day Saints will be greatly assisted in the
work of investigation by the "Compendium"
just issued from the press of the Deseret News.
It has been carefully prepared for publication by
Apostle F. D. Richards and Elder James A.
Little; and is a thorough and complete work of its
kind. It should be in every household and in
the pocket of every traveling missionary for ref-
erence. The Chronology which comes over
twenty pages, makes the volume still more
valuable. We think these brethren deserve
great credit for the adaptability of the book
to be used for which it is designed and also
the perfection of the subjects. It is for sale
at the Office of the Deseret News. Price one
dollar.
	THE Territorial Convention of the People's
Party convened in the City Hall, Monday, Oct.
9, at 12 m. A temporary organization was
effected and a committee on credentials appoint-
ed, some political speeches were made and an
adjournment agreed upon to Thursday, Oct. 12,
at 2 p. m. At that time a permanent organiza-
was effected and other committees appointed,
and adjourned to half past six p. m. During
the evening session several speeches were made
and Mrs. M. I. Horne being called upon, re-
sponded in a most happy manner. Convention
held two sessions on Friday and finished up the
business in a very satisfactory manner. The
Committee on Resolutions made an excellent
report, and the Convention decided that 20,000
copies be printed and distributed. After dis-
cussing and voting, etc., Hon. John T. Caine
received the nomination as candidate for the
office of Delegate, and made a very excellent
speech in response to a call from the House.
C. W. Penrose offered the following:
	Resolved, That in the Hon. Geo. Cannon the
people of Utah have had an able, upright and
fearless gentleman as their Delegate in Congress
for several sessions; that his exclusion from the
present Congress was a cruel blow aimed at the
right of representation; that the honorable gen-
tleman has the confidence, esteem and admira-
tion of the People's Party, and that we hereby
tender him the thanks of the people for his
faithful services in their behalf.
	In electing the Ter. Cen. Com., the ladies
were neglected or forgotten, but after the Reso-
lutions were offered, Mr. Penrose thinking it in-
consistent with the plank in the platform relat-
ing to woman suffrage, moved that the lady
delegates be permitted to nominate two ladies.
Accordingly the names of Mrs. E. B. Wells and
Mrs. M. I. Horne were added to the committee.
We regret that we have not space to publish
the resolutions but intend doing so and hope our
readers will read them carefully, for they are
worthy all consideration.


