DEATH.

	When disease stalks through the land and
fastens its cold grip on our friends, we start at
every sound, and see in every shadow a mes-
senger for some loved one. We are constantly
meeting death in its ever varying forms.
	When Spring approaches, vegetation starts
to life; earth puts on her beautiful garments of
green, 'broidered by the matchless needle of
the goddess of nature; the pearly chasms are
turned to murmuring streams; the leafless trees
become pyramids of flowers, the gay winged
choristers chant their merry lays, all nature
looks lovely and man is content. A few short
months and the chilling blast of Autumn's
frost passes over nature; the leaves fall one by
one, the trunk with its branches only remain;
the myriads of sweet scented beauties which
bedecked our gardens are faded and gone, and
the bright hues of nature are changed to the
sombre one of death.
	Again the babe, the human bud of nature
is sweetly sleeping on its mother's breast;
when the form of the grim monster slowly
passes by, one breath from its cold lips and the
little spirit leaves the frail tenement of clay.
The sound of its innocent prattle and of the
pattering of the tiny feet are hushed. We
miss the soft touch of the dimpled arms, the
loving look from the pretty blue eyes. The
breast that has pillowed its flaxen curls is
filled with anguish unspeakable.
	There is another, not a bud, for the dew of
heaven has watered it and the bright rays of
the sun have warmed it into life and the
atmosphere of home is filled with the perfume
of its loveliness. We watch with fond though
aching hearts, hoping, yet fearing. We antici-
pate a bright future, days of usefulness and
honor; the blessings of motherhood and old
age for our beautiful flower. A shadow looms
in the distance; the chilling breeze of death is
near, its icy touch is on our blooming rose;
the dear form droops, the peach bloom disap-
pears from the cheeks, the love light from the
bright eyes; a sad tender look, a gentle sigh,
like the murmer of the leaves, and all is over.
	Again death is seen approaching; the blood
curdles in our veins, with outstretched arms
and quivering frame we gasp, who next? In

[Column 2]

the agony of our soul we cry "take me! take
me!" but the skeleton, with a ghastly smile
cruelly cries "wait!" With bursting heart we
turn to see who next. Ha! it is the sturdy
oak. The husband, who has so tenderly
guided our footsteps through life's ragged
path, turns pale, the proud step falters; the
iron will gives way; reason totters on her
throne; the master mind which has meted out
justice to all is shaken; the dear form wastes
away day by day, a few convulsive throes and
and we are left alone. Oh, the nights of dark-
ness that come over our waking dreams.
Anon we sleep, the soothing handmaid of
nature bends over us; by her mesmeric touch
the strained nerves are soothed.
	The scene changes. A beautiful river
appears, floating on its surface a frail bark
Its lonely occupant, a man—a noble, Godlike
man. What strange sensations come over us.
Who is the noble being? See! that monstrous
wave will dash the frail bark to pieces. Ha!
it is lost. No! the wave has passed, it is safe;
onward it flies, scarcely seeming to touch the
foaming waves. We gaze breathlessly on the
sight; the haven is reached; with a light step
he leaps on the shore.
	A noble mansion is seen in the distance;
soft strains of "Beautiful gates ajar" are heard
from angel voices; two lovely forms emerge
from those gates; the light of exaltation beams
from their eyes. With quickened step the
stranger hastens to meet them; how joyous
they meet, with what rapture they embrace
each other. List! they speak. Father, daugh-
ters. Oh my soul! I recognize them; my
husband, my children! happy trio! Rest, poor
beating heart! It is sorrow to thee, but joy to
them; a death here, a birth there.
	As the last strains of music die, a still, small
voice whispers, be comforted broken one; be
faithful, watch and wait! A few short years
and you, with them, will inherit eternal life.
The bitter pang is past. With tearful eyes,
yet beating, hopeful heart we whisper, Father,
"thy will be done."	M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.


[Column 1]

