BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	One member of our household I have omitted
to mention, a young lady (a native of the East
Indies) who obeyed the Gospel in England, and
emigrated with a company of Saints to Nauvoo.
Her mother was an East India lady of rank
and her father a distinguished English officer.
Her name was Eliza Monroe—an only child,
who had been accustomed to having wealth
and slaves at her command, until after she had
reached her teens, and her mother was taken
from her by death, when her father returned
to England, taking her with him, and in a few
years married a proud English lady. Eliza
was what might be called one of nature's noble
ladies; she was a brunette, slender and full of
grace and refinement, with none of the proud
and haughty airs of an aristocrat, which is
assumed by so many whom dame Fortune has
raised from the lower ranks, as if afraid of not
being recognized as such, but which is a posi-
tive and unmistakable sign of ignorance and
arrogance. She was never happy with her step-
mother; their natures and customs were so op-
posite to each other; there was no sympathy
between them. She was constantly criticised
as well as reproved for being too condescending
to inferiors, and too familiar with the servants,
because she would go among them and treat
them with courtesy, as she had been accus-
tomed to do in her native land. When her
cars were saluted with the everlasting Gospel
she received and obeyed its mandates, and she
had no misgivings nor regrets at leaving her
home in England, and following the Saints to
America. She was poor and penniless, and
had no knowledge of any kind of housework,
and feeling her inability to pay her way, she
was unwilling to sit idle, and would ask the
privilege of helping about the house; but her
help was only a hindrance, and father seeing
how she felt, bethought himself of his History,
which he asked her to copy. This pleased
her, as she could write a fine hand, besides it
being an agreeable employment. He admired
her about the house, because she was so quiet
and lady-like, and spoke of it repeatedly—that
he would not know of her presence if he did
not see her, a compliment seldom paid to a
lady. I still have a neck-ribbon which she
presented me, made by the natives, from the
bark of a tree in India which they call a silk
tree. After a little time she took a school of
young ladies, near my own age and taught
during the summer; when she was unfortunate
enough to marry a shiftless young man, who
came from England, and was incapable of pro-
viding for her. Soon after he denied the faith,
and in the time of our trouble, left for St.
Louis. While stopping at Winter Quarters,
some of the brethren being sent down to St.
Louis to purchase goods, she wrote and sent
by them some little tokens of remembrance to
my mother and myself. She was still strong
in the faith but in poor circumstances.
	Among a package of my father's papers lately
found, was the following letter of commenda-
tion, received from the Prophet, and signed by
his hand June 1843, which will explain the
object of his mission East.
	"To all Saints and honorable men of the
earth greeting:
	"Dear brethren and friends: I, Joseph Smith
a servant of the Lord, and Trustee-in-trust for
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, do hereby certify that the Bearer Here-
of, Heber C. Kimball, an Elder and one of the
Twelve Apostles of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, has deposited with
me his bond and security, to my full satisfac-
tion, according to the resolution of the Confer-
ence, held in this city, on the 6th day of April
last. He therefore is recommended to all Saints

[Column 2]

and honorable people, as a legal agent to col-
lect funds for the purpose of building the Nau-
voo House, and Temple of the Lord, confident
that he will honor this high trust, as well as
ardently fulfil his commission as a messenger of
peace and salvation, as one of the Lord's noble-
men—I can fervently say, may the Lord clear
his way before him, and bless him, and bless
those that obey his teachings, whenever there
are ears to hear and hearts to feel.
	He is in the language of the Hebrews
(Haura-ang-yeesh-rau-ale). The friend of
Israel, and worthy to be received and enter-
tained as a man of God: Yea, he has, as had
the ancient Apostles (0 logos o kalos) the good
word, even the good word that leadeth unto
eternal life. Laus Deus. Praise God. Where-
fore, brethren! and friends, while you have the
assurance of the integrity, fidelity, and ability of
this servant of the living God, trusting that
your hearts and energies will be enlivened, and
deeply engaged in the building of these houses,
directed by revelation for the salvation of all
Saints: and that you will not rest where you
are, until all things are prepared before you,
and you are gathered home with the rest of
Israel, to meet your God,—I feel strong in the
belief, and have a growing expectation, that
you will not withhold any means in your power
that can be used to accomplish this glorious
work. Finally as one that greatly desires the
salvation of man, let me remind you all to
strive with a godly zeal, for virtue, holiness
and the commandments of the Lord. Be
good, be wise, be just, be liberal; and above all
be charitable always, abounding in good
works. And may health, peace and the love
of God our Father, and the grace of Jesus
Christ our Lord be and abide with you all, is
the sincere prayer of your devoted brother and
friend in the everlasting Gospel,
						Joseph Smith."
	City of Nauvoo, June 1st. 1843.

	(The Hebrew I have omitted giving only the
interpretation.)

	The following I gathered from my father's
journal:
	"Pittsburg, July 28th, 1843. Last evening
Elders B. Young, George A. Smith and W.
Woodruff, came to our meeting as Elder Page
was preaching. I must say that I was glad to
see them, as Elder O. Pratt and myself have
been in this city nearly four weeks waiting for
them. I thank my Father in heaven that I
have the privilege of hearing from my dear
brothers and sisters and family; received three
letters, one from my wife, one from my son
William, and one from Helen. How precious
to hear from my dear family whom I love and
prize above all things here on earth, but I
leave all for Christ's sake and the Gospel."
	During the summer we had (as was usual)
much sickness in the city. My mother and
babe, and all the rest of us were sick in the
early part of the season. From a letter re-
ceived from my father, dated Philadielphia
Aug. 13th, I gather the following.
	"On the 10th I went to the Post Office, and
found a letter, which gave me joy mixed with
sorrow, because you have been sick, and you
are so poor; O that I had you with me, to soothe
your task and make your burdens lighter.
Your letter was written on the 19th of July.
You said that little babe had been sick and all
the rest of the children; I am sorry, but hope
they are all well now. O, my God, bless them
and let their lives be precious in thy sight, is
my prayer all the day long; and my desire is
to make all happy and to have a pure heart
before God, but I am frail and a poor weak
man, and I need your prayers. I know that I
have them and you are all remembered when I
bow before my Father. * * * *"
	To be Continued.


