A SUMMER REVERIE.

Through the green fields alone I love to stray,
	Musing and gazing on the landscape fair;
The fragrant freshness of the new-mown hay
	Is wafted daintily upon the air;
The breath of summer flow'rs refreshes me,
	And from restraint my tired heart is free.

Field-lilles speak to me such tender things,
	I love to listen to their silent pleading,
For to my mind the Savior's words it brings,
	And in obedience his precepts heeding
Consider! yea, how beautiful they grow,
	And yet they toil not, nature makes them so.

The flow'rs associate our minds with love,
	And waken fond remembrances most dear,
They lead the human soul to look above,
	And make us feel that surely God is near,
To guide our feet throughout our length of days,
	Yea, if we trust Him, into pleasant ways.

Oh, pleasant paths, where faith and hope combine,
	To teach us lessons, all who live should learn, 
To trust in God, and say "his will, not mine,"
	And realize 'tis only what we earn,
Will give us entrance into mansions fair,
	Which Scripture tells us Jesus will prepare.

And if our way is sometimes thickly strewn
	With thorns that pierce, and rocks as sharp as steel,
And we must tread this dang'rous path alone,
	While only One above knows what we feel,
Then will He not draw near to own and bless,
	The suff'ring soul who toils in loneliness?

These were my thoughts, and many more indeed,
	As ling'ring in the fields one summer day,
I felt within my heart an urgent need,
	Of loving help to aid me on my way;For I was weary with the toil and strife,
	Of daily contact in the walks of life.

Communing thus I sought some recognition,
	In nature, or through "nature's heart" to me,
Some whisper soft, or gentle intuition,
	That would express a loving sympathy.An inspiration filling me with zeal,
	Some knowledge of my future to reveal.

Ah, we poor human beings know not yet,
	One vital principle of a creation,
On ev'ry side with problems we are met,
	We may not solve, while here in this probation;
These are the hidden mysteries of heaven,
	That only to the faithful will be given.

But if an exaltation we shall gain, 
	Through our obedience to the laws of God,
Then we shall find it was not all in vain
	To walk by faith—or feel the chast'ning rod,
For hidden things to such will be reveal'd,
	Which erst for ages past had been concealed.	EMILE.

Sept. 23, 1882.


[Column 1]

