FROM OMAHA TO ATCHISON.

	Leaving Omaha on the Missouri Pacific
railway, at 7-10, the road runs through the
most beautiful country scenery. Omaha is
thickly peopled and shows great enterprise and
wealth, but the quiet of the country was
especially restful, and the season gave almost
perfect touches to the beauty of the landscape
as we sped along. Here and there were towns
and villages, but what pleased us most was
the scenery, the soft graceful willows by the
quiet murmuring rivulets, the variety of colors
more perfect than the picture of an artist, on
the hills, the pine, walnuts, elms, hickory and
powerful oak trees, all luxurious in foliage and
variegated as Joseph’s coat of many colors.
The flaming sumach in the distance with its
royal purple berries in such heavy bunches,
and the elder berries in magnificent blue clus-
ters, added much to the glorious charm of the
miles upon miles of woodland. Then again
there would be acres of cornfields and of
sugarcane, fully ripe, richly glowing in the
sunshine. As we neared Atchison, the scenery
was more diversified with hills and woodland
and of course more beautiful to one accus-
tomed to mountainous districts; one tries to see
all and look on both sides. Atchison is beau-
tifully situated on the Missouri river and is a
great railroad centre where you can take trains
East, West, North or South. There is some-
thing over 17,000 inhabitants, and the city is
growing rapidly. Newspapers published there
are as brimful of news and politics as in Omaha,
Chicago or New York. Our time was occu-
pied in visiting relatives, and therefore we had
little chance to make observations on what we
saw; we went to the city reservoirs up on the
hill tops and near to the oak groves; also to
the Oak Hill cemetery among the graves.
It is pleasant to be in the woods, and we
thought were the dead conscious of their sur-
roundings, it would be most agreeable to lie
under the giant oaks, where sheltered from the
storm and wind, and away from the bustle of
the great busy town, rest passive and quiet
among the shrubbery and flowers of the hills.
But the dead are not there, only the mortal
part, but the immortal has gone to regions of
light and knowledge, but the spirit if permit-
ted to watch over the body it has left will re-
joice that the remains, the casket, lies so pleas-
antly and peacefully.
	One of the things of which Atchison boasts
is the bridge over the Missouri river, one
which you may ride or walk or sail under. It
took a whole year to build it and it is cer-
tainly a magnificent structure. It is of wrought
iron, rectangular truss, stone piers; the bridge
is used for highway and railway triffic and
sidewalk for travelers. It has a drawn span
328 feet long, giving 160 feet clear water.
There are four piers and two abutments. The
pivot pier circular 46 feet in diamater, and the
other three piers are 25x52 at the base 9x26
feet at the top. It is said to be the finest
bridge on the river. Churches, there are many.
The Catholic church and convent are magni-
ficent and the adjoining grounds most highly
cultivated are a great adornment to the city.
Many other elegant Churches, Academies and
residences, fine hotels and business houses.
	We were interviewed there by newspaper

[Column 2]
reporters who all thought it remarkably strange
to see a woman who believed in the practice
of plural marriage. However as the papers
were quite courteous and complimentary to
us personally and just on our question, we
are grateful to the editors and feel that they
are men who love justice and hate hypocrisy
and deceit. We were very sorry not to be
able to stay any longer in this beautiful city
but the best of friends must part, and go at
12.10 a.m., at the grand station at Atchison we
bade a sad adieu to our beloved friends, and
took the night train for Omaha; so as to lose
no time, arriving at 8 a.m., and at 12.15 took
the Union Pacific for Ogden, on our return trip.


[Column 1]
ADDRESS OF MRS. MAY WRIGHT
