WOMAN'S STATUS.

	In the world of renown man predominates,
but he does not excel. There are more great
men than women, but no greater.
	Woman's place in literature is granted. None
dispute her right. In the professions of the age
—medicine, law, science, art &c., she is rapidly
progressing, and ere long will count her number
equally with man. 'Tis owing more to the great
restraint that has been put on her, that she has
kept from balancing her mind in the great
weight—the world of fame—with man for so
many years; but now as the chains gradually
loosen she gains her place step by step, and be-
fore the dawning of another century her place
will be universally recognized.
	There is one place where man has ever stood
foremost, and few are the women who have sought
renown in that way, war. But even here man
is not entirely alone. Hundreds of thousands of
men have endangered their lives in the cause of
their country, but as many women have felt the
same throbs of patriotism and have endured un-
told hardships for the same cause. And who
can say which is the harder, to risk one's own
life in battle for an honorable cause, or to suffer
the lives of those we love far dearer than our-
selves to be in danger. Any true woman would
rather suffer than see others in agony, and there-
fore her endurance for country's sake is noble in-
deed. There are some women who risk not only
their own lives, but break the chains of rigid
custom and show themselves foremost in the
ranks of armed men, like the maid of Saragossa,
or in the hospitals like the heroine of Scutari.
There are hundreds as intrepid as either of these

[Column 2]

and which is the braver or nobler? It would be
hard to tell; for to meet the cannon's mouth in
open battle calls for no greater courage than to
meet disease among the dead and dying, and to
witness the mortal anguish and suffering of our
fellow men. Have those women done aught
against the sanctity of their sex to a nobler plat-
form and a higher sphere. Who would utter a
word against Florence Nightingale, the noble,
beautiful heroine of the Crimea. How she toiled
in the hospitals in that foreign land, and gave
hope and life to thousands of men. She was
fairly idolized by the troops; one of the soldiers
said, "She would speak to one and to another,
and nod and smile to as many more; but she
couldn't do it to all, you know; we lay there by
hundreds; but we could kiss her shadow as it
fell, and lay our heads on the pillow again con-
tended." She always was cheerful and kind,
and brought a pure and sacred influence with
her. Another soldier was known to say, "Be-
fore she came, there was cursin and swearin, and
after that it was as holy as a church." No gen-
eral ever did a nobler deed than she. The most
one can do, is the sacrifice of a life, and the
nobler and better the life, the greater must be
the sacrifice. What wonder that she received
homage from the "noble of the land." 'Twere
little reward for the Sultan of Turkey, or the
Queen of England to present her with jewels,
or for the English nation to raise her a fortune to
onable her to instruct others in the dinnie art o
alleviating pain. She returned to England, which
a short time before she had left in perfect health,
an invalid for life; but she was never known to
regret that she had made the sacrifice of her
own health, for she felt the reward of renewing
the health of hundreds of others.
	Perhaps her name and deeds were an incen-
tive to the women of America, for while she
overcome the opposition of old surgeons and
obstinate seargents in the Crimea, she also
smoothed the path of American women on the
banks of the Mississippi and Potomac, where
deeds of sacrifice and bravery abounded to a
greater extent than was ever known before.
	American mothers sent forth their sons to
face the cannons of war or to languish in horrible
prisons. Was there no sacrifice there? Think
of the bleeding of a mother's heart as she parts,
perhaps forever, with her son who was her pride
and glory. Think of the wives and daughters
who parted from husband, father, son and
brother; with the thought—this may be our last
good bye. These wives, mothers, and sisters sat
not idly at home, bemoaning their fate, but en-
couraged their loved ones in fighting for their
country, prayed for them and worked for them.
	Societies were efficiently organized where
the women sewed and knit, and made deli-
cacies for the sick and collected stores and
money to keep the treasury of the Sanitary
Commission full. Some worked thus, but many
went right to the fight, and labored with the
wounded and the sick. Volumes might be
written about the noble women of the Rebellion,
but the subject is almost too vast, for pen to try
to portray. In the hearts of the soldiers these
women have a record and a monument, if in no
other place. The women of the north and of
the south, both labored hard in the hospitals and
some on the battlefield. It would scarcely be
just to make mention of one, there were so many
equally great. No thought of romance or glory
inspired these women but a pure love for coun-
try, liberty and humanity.
	As men enlisted as soldiers, women enlisted as
nurses, and to both, not to one, was the suc-
cessful issue due. In truth if glory were to be
divided would it not fall more to the ones who
saved lives than to the ones who risked them?
