CONVENTION N. W. S. A. AT OMAHA.

	The first meeting was a preliminary one held
in the parlors of Boyd's Opera House, at 2 o'clock
p. m., Tuesday, Sept. 26. Ch. Ex. Com. May
Wright Sewall, presiding. It was decided at
this meeting what committees should be ap-
pointed and of whom they should consist.
	1st.	Committee on Credentials.
	2d.	Committee on Resolutions.
	3d.	Committee on Nominations.
	These several committees included one at least
from every State or Territory represented at the
Convention. The ladies talked over the neces-
sity of having a regular medium of communi-
cation through the press, which the Association
had not had since the National Citizen of Syra-
case, N. Y., was discontinued; After some
amiable discussion of the matter, a vote was
taken to make "Our Herald" the medium of
such communication. This is already a very
popular paper, and will no doubt more than dou-
ble its circulation now that it is to contain
complete details of the work of the N. W. S. A.
Its editor, Mrs. Helen M. Gougar is a sharp,
shrewd, bright, intelligent lady, and on the
platform witty, brilliant and sparkling, holding
the undivided attention of her audiences, and
they never tire of her interesting themes and
apt illustrations. She speaks much in the open
air, which is rather uncommon for a lady, and
has by this means accomplished a good work in
Nebraska, during the present campaign, taking
in another class of men and winning many over
to the cause, who otherwise would never have
heard woman's political position explained,
or ever given it a thought. There is no doubt
but she will make the paper very useful in the
cause of woman's suffrage as indeed it has been
heretofore, though perhaps not so exclusively.
	Tuesday evening, half past 7, the Convention
was formally opened, with prayer by the Rev.
Mr. Sherrill, Congregational minister at Omaha.
Then followed a written address of welcome by
the Hon. A. J. Poppleton of that city, but un-
fortunately for him the light was not sufficient
to admit of his reading it, but it was published
in the morning paper. Mrs. May Wright Sewall
of Indiana, Mrs. Helen M. Gougar and Miss
Anthony were the speakers and everybody was
delighted; the large opera house was crowded
and the applause occasionaly was immense.
	Wednesday morning, half past ten, was an
executive session, Mrs. Sewall, Chairman, Miss
Pearl Adams was chosen Secretary, and almost
the entire time was devoted to reports from the
different localities in Nebraska. Some other busi-
ness was transacted and meeting adjourned un-
til 2 p.m., at that time the house was full in
every part, and the audience most attentive.
Miss Susan B. Anthony presiding. Miss An-
thony is looked up to by the suffrage ladies, as
a reverend mother, and she has a kind word
and apt advice for each one; she is a mother in
the largest sense of the word; she has devoted

[Column 2]
her life, or more than thirty years of it to a
principle, to the work of elevation for women,
and she is receiving at this late day some of the
homage and appreciation, which she so richly
deserves and has so justly merited. Addresses
were delivered, one of which we publish in full
in this issue and some others will be in our next
issue. There was another regular session of the
Convention in the evening, and Matilda Hind-
man of Pa., was the first speaker.
	Executive session. Thursday morning was
devoted to reports from the several States and
Territories, that were there represented; they
were called in alphabetical order.
	Consequently Utah came near the last, and
it was almost time to adjourn, but after com-
mencing to make a verbal report to save time
one of the ladies stated that a complete written
report had been prepared. The written report
was called for both from the platform and from
the audience, and it was voted that it should be
given in full. It was exceedingly well received,
in fact said to be the most perfect report and
the best presented.
	Thursday afternoon considerable time was
taken up in discussing the slanders of the
"Omaha Herald." Mrs. Saxon of Louisiana,
and Miss Couzens of St. Louis, were brilliantly
eloquent on the subject in defending Mrs.
Gougar and Mrs. Sewall of Indiana, against the
base fabrications and insinuations of the Herald
editor. After all this world of words, which
were choice and possitive, Mrs. Sewall came to
the front and said she should never have thought
of taking up the subject, although she was
much obliged to her good friends for so cordially
and ably espousing her cause, but for her own
part she could uot understand the dialect in
which it was written. It was consequently un-
intelligible to her and fell harmless as far as she
was concerned. Pure minded, high bred people
would not understand the language of the arti-
cle and therefore she had no fear of it. The
brief speech was scathing and had a more tell-
ing effect than all the eloquence of the ladies
who defended her. Mrs. Shattuck of Boston
was the first regular speaker.
	The evening session was the most crowded of
all, there was not even standing room left any-
where in the Opera House.
	The resolutions were read and approved.
	At half past nine the reception opened at the
parlors of the Paxton. Everything had been
arranged in elegant style, and the conversation
was kept up until a late hour, though many re-
tired as soon as they had paid their devoirs,
to Miss Anthony, Miss Couzens and the leading
ladies. To attempt a description of the affair
would take too much time, suffice it to say, it
passed off pleasantly, most of the time being
taken up with introductions, to people one never
expects to meet again, and knows nothing of
them except the name and perchance title.
Good byes were in order at the close, and many
kisses were interchanged and tears dropped in
the fond heartfelt adieux.


