IN MEMORIAM.

	In the midst of life we are in death! Another
noble spirit has departed! One whom we
had vainly hoped to keep with us longer. And
although we realize her ameliorated condition, we
feel so deeply the want of her angelic presence,
her beloved society, "Which was ever like the
perfumed flower, Dispensing sweets through
every hour."
	Clara Young Conrad was born in the State of
Iowa, Pottawotomie County, July 30th, 1850.
She was indeed a child of faith, born in the new
covenant, the daughter of the late President
Joseph Young, and Sister Mary Ann Burn-
ham Young—her mother a plural wife, ever
patient and enduring, trustful and hopeful
through all trying scenes of the early establish-
ment of this Gospel and promulgation of the


principle of Plural Marriage—and she seemed
to have endowed her child with the same
sweet and peaceful spirit, for it has ever been
manifested throughout her whole existence.
And of her it can be truly said "Those who
knew her best, loved her most." This I can
truly say—having known her since her early
girlhood—and in retrospecting this acquaintance,
I can find no blemish in her character.
	In 1867 she was married to Jasper Conrad,
and with others shared the hardships and priva-
tions of the ever to-be-remembered "Muddy
Mission," enduring ill-health and the many dis-
comforts incident to the journey with the most
patient fortitude, never a word of complaint
passed her lips. Her faith and trust in God was
unbounded, manifesting itself in very early life.
Upon one occasion of attending meeting the
desire came upon her to hear the gift of tongues,
and in faith she offered up a fervent prayer that
this desire might be granted, which indeed it
was before the closing of the services; this was
at the early age of eleven years.
	Sister Conrad although a thoroughly domestic
woman—a true wife and mother in the truest
sense of the term—possessed a spirit of love and
benevolence towards all, and has been active in
many public capacities, acting as first counselor
to President M. A. Freeze, of the Stake Presi-
dency of the Y. L. M. I. A. And notwith-
standing her weak condition, she traveled con-
siderably from town to town instructing and
exhorting the young, and yielding a powerful
influence for good—all listening with enrapt
attention to her eloquent and inspired teach-
ings. Her great desire has ever been to live for
good and usefulness, but she has now passed to
another sphere of action, where her labors will
not cease, and all the desires of her heart will
be granted.
	For a number of years this patient woman
has been a great sufferer with lung trouble,
terminating in organic disease of those vital
parts. Of late her friends have watched her
with the most anxious solicitude, fearing that
the sands of life were fast ebbing away. Yet
the last few weeks seemed to bring a favorable
change—these hopes proved fallacious—for upon
the 20th of September she passed away without
scarcely a moment's notice—dying in her
mother's arms, that most faithful of all friends
who has so unselfishly nursed and watched over
her from the cradle to the grave. Although her
demise was sudden—she was ready to go, for
such as she are ever prepared to answer their
Maker's call. Her good works are gone before
her. She leaves a husband and three children
with numerous relatives and friends to mourn
her untimely departure.

A bright spirit has flown, a loved one departed,
	A weary one gone to her rest,
While friends are left desolate, bowed and sad-hearted,
	Yet feeling that Father knows best.

Cold death often visits the most perfect household,
	Selecting the dearest of all;
None purer, nor better, from out of the threshold
	E'er answered the sorrowful call—

Than Clara—so lovely in face, mind and spirit,
	Intelligent, gentle and true;
Her counsel so wise, that all paused to hear it,
	Like wisdom is given to few.

We know that our loved one is free from all sorrow,
	She knoweth no more mortal pain;
We'll try to look forth with hope to the morrow,
	When we"ll meet, and ne'er part, from our Clara
		again.

E. R. S.


