BY HANNAH T. KING.

	The Conference of October 6th, 1882, has just
closed; but the spirit that pervaded it and the
marvelous influence it threw over all that
mighty assemblage of thousands of human
beings, will long, long be felt! s[-]ely it will
never fade or die, but, will pass into different
forms as it prevades the human strata. My heart
yearned, and still yearns to see it appear again
in pamphlet form, and issued through the
United States, and England, that honest minds
might read and be instructed from the perusal.
Some of the discourses were so inspirational, so
logically truthful, so actually sublime, that it
seems to me, that every honest, every intelligent
mind, every man or woman who have held the
Bible as an inspired volume, and containing the
plan of salvation, and the rule and guide of life,
must at once decide, that a Voice was heard in
that Tabernacle during those four days, soaring
above all human voices declaring the truth of
the words spoken, and of the principles advoca-
ted, yes—and it was a Voice from which there
was no appeal!
	Can it be possible that any man or woman
who has been raised under the teaching of the
Old and New Testament, who have acknowl-
edged as their God, the God of Abraham, Isaac
and Jacob, acknowledged Jesus Christ as the
Savior and Redeemer of the world, and conse-
quently as their Savior and Redeemer, can they,
could they hear, or read the discourses of the
last four days, these days of Conference and
turn away—shut up their ears and their un-
derstanding and decide they cannot receive
it, simply because these sublime truths, these
sublime principles were promulgated by Latter-
day Saint Elders, when they are the same prin-
ciples they have been educated under, the
same truths enunciated, only enlarged and
elaborated and illuminated by a greater light,
even the light of revelation!
	The God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob—of
Enoch, of Moses, of Isaiah, of Ezekiel and all
the ancient Prophets—is the God of the Latter-
day Saints, Jesus Christ the acknowledged
Savior of the world, is the acknowledged Savior
of the Latter-day Saints—then why is all this
rejection, this turning away from TRUTH?
Truth is eternal, and cannot clash, or misfit
with another truth.
	Satan spoke truth to the Savior when tempt-
ing him—saying "He hath given His angels
charge concerning thee lest thou dash thy foot
against a stone!" Who does not know that this
was truth even from the mouth of Satan? I
am speaking to illustrate that "Truth is truth
where'er 'tis found!" How often does a very
child speak a truth, at which we are astounded,
and for the moment we are humbled, as though
in the presence of a superior being, and "we
knew it not!" What beautiful, sublime, and
practical truths those ancient but most accom-
plished heathens enunciated for the rule and
guide of life! What morals! What manners!—
so pure, that they have been studies for the
pure, and good, through all those ages even down
to us! As Brother Kimball used to say of good
things, "if they are not in the Bible they ought
to be!" Who thinks of rejecting them? No one,
they are in the libraries of all the great and
grand of earth to-day! All acknowledge them
as sublime truth. Yet they were enunciated by
men who raised an altar "To the unknown
God!" They also were ahead of their times—
and were hated and put to death for the prin-
ciples which they taught and practiced; I will
only name two of these great, grand men, Sene-
ca and Socrates one was placed in a warm bath,

[Column 2]

and bled to death, and the other was presented
with a bowl of poison; these are but specimens
of thousands, who in different forms have met
a cruel death for the principles of purity and
morality which they taught and practiced and
all the good and intelligent of all the ages since,
have held their words up as immortal models
and almost deified the writers.
	When Christ was upon the earth, all know
how He was received, and treated, it was only
the few, the poor, but the pure in heart, who
received his teachings, and His followers re-
ceived the name of Christian in derision! Since
then and for generations He has been acknowl-
edged, the worshiped—the deified Son of God!
Are His words truer to-day than when they
issued from His sacred lips? No they are the
same "yesterday, to-day and forever," but it
has become popular—yes fashionable if you
please, to worship Him—with the lip at any
rate!
	A mind, open to truth, from whatever source
it comes is a God-given mind, such a mind can-
not be "far from the kingdom of God." Truth
never extends her hand to error, let it take what-
ever form of beauty it may. Truth is the Priest-
ess of God, speaks by His voice, inspired by
His spirit, leads and guides by His teachings is
eternal, immutable immortal! Error in what-
ever shape or form is ignorance, darkness
DEATH!
	How God forsaken must that mind be, that
does not know Truth when hearing it, how
perverted the training, how false the education
of such a mind! How sweet is truth, how we
love those whom we know ever speak truth!
What entire confidence we have in them! They
are a blessing to all who associate with them!
Now my mind reverts to those four days just
passed, and in my "mind's eye" I see those
assembled thousands every eye bent to one
focus, and every ear in the same direction,
every brain comprehending the principles en-
unciated, some more, some in less degree, but all
according to their capability, every heart ac-
knowledging, and endorsing those Heaven-
born principles—and I know the power and
spirit of God was in that assembly in a marvel-
ous degree, and I rejoice, and glory in the fact;
that mighty assembly comprised the covenant
servants and handmaidens of the Lord, who had
made a covenant with Him by sacrifice, many
had laid their heart's treasures upon the altar
and were ready for the sacrifice, if their salva-
tion could not be accomplished without it, all in
some way had made the needed sacrifice; if the
poor had not wealth, they had something nearer
and dearer—a father, or mother, or husband, or
wife, but they heard the Gospel in its fulness
and with it they heard a Voice saying, "Whoso
loveth father or mother or wife or child, or any
possession more than me or my Gospel is
not worthy of me! and cannot be my disciple,
but who will make a covenant with me by sac-
rifice, shall in this life receive a hundred fold,
and in that which is to come life everlasting."


[Column 1]
R S., Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
