HOMESPUN TALKS WITH HERSELF.

	Homespun and I have a very odd habit of
talking when in doubt on any subject; Sarah
Ann taking one side and I the other. Our
thoughts drifted the other night on to the shore


of Mutual Improvement Associations, and we
discussed the subject, very privately, for a long
while. Then we carried our ideas to the head
and front of the M. I. A's, and still we wern't,
not quite satisfied, and so we detirmined to
put some questions to the wise EXPONENT.
	Sarah Ann says she don't care much about
going to the M. I. meetings because she dosen't
appreciate the monotonous exercise from the
Book of Mormon or Bible, the very tame re-
marks that follow, and the little reading from
some book or paper. Now I am heartily
ashamed of Sarah Ann, but I can't quite force
her to go. We were informed that we were
not spiritual minded enough. But, what are
we to do? We like to hear a good sermon, we
like to read our own Bible and Book of Mor-
mon in the spirit thereof, but we can't quite
bring ourselves to be "spiritual-minded."
	Sarah Ann says she knows lots of young
people who are good, moral, honest, hardwork-
ing perhaps, but they arn't spiritual-minded.
They'd like real well to go to some society
where they could improve their minds, but
they lack the spirituality to want to preach
(they call it preach) and listen to dreary read-
ings from books. Now she says, what's to be
done with this mass of young people, who are
otherwise good Mormons?
	Sarah Ann goes on to say that she don't
think the young people should be chided too
much for their love of dress. She thinks the
older ones ought to devise means to fill up
their minds with other thoughts, and reason
them out of their folly, not drive them into it.
Can we not have some kind of societies where
we may study a little of everything? Physi-
cal Geography, Mental Philosophy, Chemistry,
Civil Government, etc. etc? Then we will
gladly study also the Bible and other Church
works.
	I told Sarah Ann that these things were
taught in the High Schools of the Territory.
Ah, yes, she replied, but the majority of our
young people can't get "the ghost of a chance"
to attend them. Still they want to know
something, and, where is the place to be helped
with these studies? Our young people ought
to be treated in the same manner as a gentle-
man told me a cow was taught to eat onions.
A handful of apples was given and one onion
thrown in. Can not we who are so unfortun-
ate as to be devoid of spirituality, have our
onions with lots of apples? What is the spirit
and genius of the M. I. A.?	S. A. Homespun.


