BY ARTIMESIA SNOW.

	Delivered in St. George, December 5th, 1878,
before a Mass meeting of ladies.
	We are called upon to-day to express our feel-
ings in regard to the principle of polygamy, and

[Column 2]
whether we uphold the proceedings of our Chris-
tian sisters—(call them sisters because they are
of our sex) or whether we enter our protest
against them. Sisters, I am a sincere believer
in plural marriage. In 1844 my husband first
asked my consent to take to himself other wives.
I freely gave it, believing such an order of mar-
riage to be a pure and holy principle, revealed
from the heavens to our beloved Prophet, Seer,
and Revelator. Knowing it to be a principle
practiced anciently by those, who now sit at the
right hand of our Father in Heaven, and know-
ing also my husband to be a virtuous man, and
entering into that order out of pure motives and
in obedience to the will and commandments of
Heaven, I say I freely gave my consent. I have
lived in the order of Celestial marriage thirty-
five years. I have no wish—I have no desire—to
have it changed or abolished.
	For why should I wish to change the plans of
the Almighty, that He has marked out for the
benefit of the human family?
	I have not been without my trials in the prac-
tice of this principle, but I have had peace and
comfort, and I have had sorrow. I expected to be
tried. I entered into it with that expectation.
I had my prejudices to subdue, my selfishness
to overcome, and many things to contend with.
	The Lord has said, He would have a tried peo-
ple, that they should come up through great
tribulation, that they might be prepared to en-
dure His presence and glory. If I had no trials,
I should not expect to be numbered with the
People of God, and therefore not be made a par-
taker of His blessings and glory.
	I have reared a large family in this marriage
system. I have been the mother of eleven child-
ren. My husband has been the father of thirty-
five, twenty-six now living, all equally honorable
in as much as they pursue an upright, righteous
course through life. Out of that number there
are sixteen sons. Not one of them has ever
committed any crime that has brought a stain
upon their character or a dishonor upon the
heads of their parents. Not one of them is
given to tippling or drunkenness, not one
smokes or chews tobacco, and as fast as they
arrive at mature age, earn their living by the
sweat of the brow, or by the labor of their
own hands. Why should they not be honorable?
Their father is an honorable man. He is hon-
ored with that priesthood that emanates from
the Gods.
	We have children born in the new and ever-
lasting covenant of marriage, who are walking
in the footsteps of their father and mothers, and,
I trust, will honor it.
	My sister next older than myself, was the
first woman given in plural marriage. She lived
and died a good, faithful Latter-day Saint, true
to the principles she embraced and is now re-
joicing with her husband, our beloved Prophet,
in the eternal worlds. If I can walk in her foot-
steps, imitate her example, and attain that
glory and exaltation that I believe she has, I
will be satisfied.
	It looks very odd to me nowadays to see a man
living alone with one wife, especially a middle
aged man. It does very well for new beginners,
just starting out on the journey of life to begin
with one, and then add to. But to see a man
in the decline of life, I say it looks odd. It looks
selfish, contracted, drawn up into a nut shell.
It puts me in mind of the blessing that was
asked "O Lord, bless me and my wife, my son
John and his wife, us four and no more. Amen."
	We have been driven from a should-be land of
freedom and liberty. We have wended our
way over a trackless desert, footsore and bleed-
ing, to these valleys of the mountains, thinking
here the weary could find rest. Thinking here
we could live in peace, enjoy our rights and
freedom, and worship God according to the dic-

[Column 3]
tates of our own conscience. But in this we
have been disappointed. Our persecutors not
being satisfied with driving us from county to
county, from state to state, and at last from the
United States, have followed us here. And
from time to time have gotten up their crusades
against us to annoy and perplex, and last of all,
our Chritian sisters (?) have taken it in hand, to
deliver us from that awful yoke of bondage and
oppression (?) with which we are bound, and
raise us from that low state of degradation (?)
into which we have fallen. My Christian sisters,
this is a mistaken idea of yours! We are not the
kind of women you take us to be. There are
just as pure, virtuous, noble spirited women in
Utah, as you will find any where on the foot-
stool of God. You need not be to that trouble.
We can deliver ourselves if we chaose. We can
live in the plural marriage system or out of it.
There is no compulsion whatever. Wait till we
solicit your aid. We have not asked your ser-
vices. We do not need them. We do not want
them. They are voluntary. It is what I call
offered service, and it is a stink in our nostrils!
	If you do not like our religion, if you do not
like the principles which we practice, I would
say to all such then hie ye away to your own
cities and homes from whence ye came, and
there get up your petitions to Mrs. Hayes to
use her influence for Congress to legislate for
the morality of your own cities and towns.
Bestow your labors where they are needed, and
not here. Charity should begin at home, and
then perhaps we should not have so many
foundlings dropped at our doors as we now have.
Poor things! With all our numerous children
born in plural marriage to support, we can take
care of them too. They are human flesh. We
have enough for all. Utah has made no provi-
sion for illegimate children. Latter-day Saints
have none such, nor ever expect to have while
they practice plural marriage.
	It is quite enough for the sterner sex to get up
these crusades against an innocent people,
without your imbrueing your hands in the blood
of innocence. You will have enough to do to
plead for mercy at the bar of God to be ex-
tended to your husbands and fathers who have
committed the like acts. You should have com-
menced this task thirty-five years ago, when
this principle now so despised was in its infancy.
But it has lived, grown up, and become of age,
and your puny arm cannot overthrow it.
	God is at the helm. In Him we trust. And
I pray that we may live in peace in these valleys
of the mountains, and be permitted to continue
our labors in redeeming this barren waste and
making it to become a fruitful field and a place
beautiful to the beholder; and sit under our
own vine and fig tree, with no one to molest
or interfere, while God shall pour out His
scourges and judgments upon the wicked and
ungodly, and all those who reject the Ever-
lasting Gospel, and especially upon all these
who seek the overthrow and destruction of this
people.
	NOTE. Mrs Artimesia Snow whose address
we publish above is the first wife of Apostle
Erastus Snow, of St. George. She was the
daughter of Alma and Sarah Beaman and was
born at Lerona, Livingston County, New York,
March 30, 1819. She was married to Erastus
Snow then quite a young man, in Far West,
Mo., December 13, 1838. She has ever been a
firm believer and earnest advocate of the doc-
trines and principles of the Latter-day Saints.
Her address to the ladies of St. George, is copied
from the records of the Relief Society of that
place, as many of her friends were desirous to
see it in print, that her testimony upon the
principle of celestial marriage might be on
record. Ed.


