WINTER HOUSE PLANTS.

	Who is there among the lady readers of the
EXPONENT, that does not love house plants,
and their culture? If any, they need not trou-
ble to read farther, as anything I have to say
will scarcely interest them.
	But to those who are fond of these trouble-
some pets, perhaps I can suggest with profit to
them, something learned from actual exper-
ience, and not from books on floriculture.
	What is there more bright or beautiful, in
the dull days of winter, or that makes a room
look cosier, than a glowing grate fire, and win-
dows full of blooming plants. I say blooming
because I suppose there are some like myself
(and for them I write) who have gone through
the seige so trying to amateur florists, i. e. of
tending with great care, plants that stubbornly

[Column 2]

refused to bloom, except when the summer
garden was lavish with blossoms, and we cared
bu little whether they favored us or not.
	Now I am aware I ought to have given my
information at least a month ago, but remem-
bering the old adage "better late than never,"
concluded to give it now, for the benefit of
those like myself, a little behindhand. I take
it for granted you all like free bloomers, and
will suggest some that are very easy to culti-
vate, and that richly repay a little care.
	The different varieties of flowering begonias,
the delicate beauty of whose foliage combined
with their graceful flowers, and free blooming
qualities, are very desirable for winter window
culture. The variety of leaf and blossom is
truly beautiful. I have one with lovely bronze
green, pointed leaves, and red translucent stems,
that is one mass of pale pink blossoms two
thirds of the year. Another dark green
rounded leaves and pure white blossoms; still
another, light green leaves and coral red flowers,
and my list is very incomplete.
	They require a temperature of about 70
degrees. The soil I use is moderately rich and
mixed with sufficient fine sand for good drain-
age. Under these conditions my plants favor
me with masses of bloom most of the time,
and although I called them in the beginning
of this article troublesome pets, their care is
one of my chief pleasures.
	Do not think dear reader, that I have no
other plants to offer, of easy cultivation. O!
no. The dear old Calla is, and well deserves
to be, a favorite of mine, for it sends forth its
lovely waxen flower, with but little attention,
save water in profusion, and warmth. I call
it my 'angel flower,' it is so pure and beauti-
ful. And then there are the old stand bys,
the geraniums in all colors, double and single.
Pot them early in the fall in six or eight
inch pots, cut them down pretty well, give
good soil and a moderate allowance of water,
and they will repay you with numbers of blos-
soms all Winter.
	For hanging baskets, I have German ivy
and kenilworth, maderia and maurandya vines,
and ivy geraniums, with the lobelia plant
which is so pretty because of its mass of blue
flowers. And don't forget to try the begonia
as a basket plant. I assure you, they are a
lovely addition to our little hanging gardens.
	In conclusion, water your plants when they
need it. Don't go round every morning with
your watering pot, giving to each and all im-
partially. With plants you have to be partial;
some need twice as much as others, and I have
learned by experience, that a quantity suffi-
cient for one, is death to another. A good
rule to go by, (though there are exceptions,)
is to give more water to thin leaved plants,
than to thick leaved ones.
	You will soon see when you give too much,
as the foliage will drop.
	I have mentioned only a few flowers, but
they are all easily cultivated, and I hope if
tried, will give as much pleasure to you as they
have to me, I think you cannot fail to have
success, if you love flowers as well as I do.
