[Vol54 | May 1967 | Page 324 | Special Feature | These Things Endure Alice | Colton Smith]
These Things Endure Alice Colton Smith Assistant Professor of Soctology, Utah State University. Logan, Utah Membher. General Board of Relief Society ¢ The afternoon sun was mellow hot. Its warmth sent waves of pleasure down my back and bathed the whole world in wellbeing. The horse tossed his head impatiently for a moment and sent the flies buzzing. Then, he returned to cropping the early grass on the ditch bank. I was suspended in a sensation of perfect, low-keyed happiness. There I was on such a perfect, late spring afternoon listening to the two women I loved best, my grandmother and my mother. I wanted time to stand still. My grandmother, her gray hair in a knot on top of her head, 324 sat in her buggy while my mother and I leaned on the garden gate. Although I was not yet eight, I stored in the never-to-be-forgotten area of memory in my brain, those things about which they spoke. 'You are an angel of mercy,' my mother said. I looked up. Grandmother's face was wrinkled and her hands were rough from hard work. She an angel? 'Oh, pshaw,' she said modestly, but at the same time smiled with pleasure. Silently, I had agreed with my mother. I couldn't imagine an angel more beautiful. Enraptured, I followed the story of heroism that my grand- _ mother unfolded. She would not become famous and_ world-renowned because of it, but it lodged unforgettably in onesmall girl's heart. Illness in the middle ~ of the night, a knock at the door in the early morn before the cock crowed, a plea of anguish, a horse and buggy hitched together by lantern light, a ride through the wind and sleet, the soothing voice of hope and rescue, the calming presencean angel of mercy in a land without hospitals and doctors. There followed tales of babies delivered, of feverish children nursed to health, and of sad times when old friends were laid to rest. This pattern of compassion was etched into my soul that faraway afternoon. Except for that one sentence of commendation, there were no more words of praise given, I think, or expected. The experiences were told as concern for friends and neighbors, what anyone would do under similar circumstances. She loved those people, and they loved her. Was there more to be said? Arm in my life, as my mother often remembered her crippled, nearly bedfast, unmarried friend and always sent her a Christmas dinner; or asked us each fall, as school started, to share our clothes with those less fortunate, the early lesson was reinforced. I do not remember any formal lessons given about the fact that all men are brothers, that each one is his brother's keeper, but I knew about love at an early age, about love and love of one's fellow men. It was a way of life.
Then, I married into a family whose mother had taken into her These Things Endure home the homeless, the sick, and the dying, the orphan, thirty-four of them, to nurture, to feed, to clothe, many of them during the depression when bills for food alarmingly mounted, but there _were no complaints from the man and woman who understood what Jesus meant by the brotherhood of man, the relatedness of all human beings to one another. - Unforgettably, indelibly, quietly, and, informally, the women in my life taught me the values and attitudes of the gospel. Men are dying on the battlefield, as I write this, in the agony we call war. There has always been war, or nearly always, if we understand history correctly. Only now more men die than before, more men, women, and children. I have seen tragic poverty in the streets of America, Europe, and in the cities and towns of the Middle East. There has always been poverty, only now astronomical numbers of people are starving and under-privileged. We must cope with problems whose size, enormity, and complexity stagger us. Each day the news reports are full of tales of need, disaster, terror, and horror. Are we becoming deaf to these because we feel helpless; even hopeless, at the size of the world's problems? Did not the Prophet Joseph Smith suggest a reasonable, realistic way to meet these problems of human need when he said, "Let your labors be mostly confined to those around you, in the circle of your own acquaintance"? (DHC IV, page 607). What would happen if all the women of the world followed the teachings of the Prophet of God? There would be 

325 May 1967

 no poor whose needs were unattended, no lonely, confused, or angry strangers, no listressed of whom care was not taken, no widows in want of food or friendship, nor any orphans who wept. When the Prophet gave his advice, did he mean that we should not be concerned for the ills of distant people? I do not believe this. I think he was teaching us a great lesson in concern. It is easy to write a check (hard as it may be to part with our money and send it off so that someone else may exercise care), easier than to take the time out of our busy lives to be thoughtful and concerned for the well-being of those around us. There live in my neighborhood the aged, the sick, widows, the newly orphaned, the distressed, people who are lonely and unhappy, one of whom recently talked of suicide. Strangers also live on my street. Should I not reorganize my life to take care of these first? Everwidening circles of compassionate care could encompass the whole earth. L cannot remember a time when training in music, acquiring outdoor and indoor skills, and learning the joys of reading were not a part of our home. We read as we breathed, naturally, joyfully. To learn was to live. My father read, my mother read, my brother and sisters read, every age was concerned with study and development. Eight or eighty, God had given us a huge program, and part of life was this exciting world of study. It was not until I was past twenty that I realized our home was different in one vital respect. 326 It was our custom to sit at the dinner table an hour or two after dinner 'was finished to talk about the day. Here, Father took the time to tell his young children about what was happening in the Congress of the United States of which he was a member. The politics of the day became vividly real in those sessions, where one could speak his mind freely, asking questions, probing all aspects of life. Here the meanings of the gospel of Jesus Christ were spiritedly discussed and_ their practical applications mulled over. All the world was here for discussion and always related back to our most special concern, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints. What a compliment my father and mother paid us as they listened to our opinions as those of valued peers, discussing points of interest with the same passionate concern and courtesy that they did with their most trusted friends. How naturally and informally the gospel was taught to us, as a part of life— not something to be paraded on special occasions and having little relevance to what we did every day. Nearly every night was home night. Consciously or unconsciously, my mother and father were trying to bring up their children "in light and truth" (D&C 93: 40). The role of the mother to teach, to share, to be with, to love her children has always been a part of my mother's life, whether her children were one or fortyone. So, mother flew thousands of miles to visit me and my family when, for one wonderful year, we lived in the land of the Savior. She came so that we might walk together in Gethsemane, glean as Ruth had done in the fields of Boaz, walk the streets of Jerusalem to Calvary, stand on the Mount of Olives, and be together in the land we both learned to love, as she had read the Bible to the family while we sat around the pot-bellied stove on snowy nights when my world was young. One hot, midsummer day as we drove north, the wind from the east dried everything in its path. The brittle weeds rasped against each other. The hills, hazy in the distance, were burned and barren. Our car topped the hill. Below us, harp-shaped and of the deepest blue, lying in its part of the giant cleft that reaches deep into Africa, was the lake about which we had read and dreamed all our lives, Galilee. We were unprepared for the barren world in which it lay, 686 feet below sea level, and for the searing heat. What we were prepared for was the blue, the unbelievable blue of this inland lake called the Sea of Galilee. One of the earliest songs we had sung around our piano was "Galilee, blue Galilee where Jesus loved so much to be." We knew why. Instantly, our hearts and experiences were linked with his in love of this beautiful spot. As we stood, side by side, on the shores of that hallowed sea, my mother and I, I was grateful for the woman who had taught me to love the Lord, who had read to me as a little child the stories of Jesus and his disciples as they fished in these blue waters, of Jesus who walked upon the waves, and of Peter who momentarily faltered, of Jesus feeding the multitudes on one of the These Things Endure hills surrounding Galilee, and of Jesus, after his resurrection, sitting on these very shores so long ago—or was it yesterday?—loving this world and its people, as he told Peter to feed his sheep. Now, together we stood, mother and daughter, teacher and pupil, remembering our Lord, sharing as grown women the miracle of his life, so much of which had been lived by this sea. We live, all of us, in a mobile world. We live in a world of swift change. In the past families sank roots in one part of the world. These roots were an anchor, Now, we move from city to city, from continent to continent. What will bind us together, give us the stability of the past, while helping us to live in the freedom of the present? Can deeply shared experiences, coupled with the love of God and man, help mothers to build into their children a firm testimony and an understanding that will be the deepest root of all? God, as he said in the Doctrine and Covenants that he would, has poured out his spirit on all flesh. One mind can comprehend but a small fraction of what is known. In one brief century, man has escaped his earthbound past. For the first time in history we live only hours from the Sea of Galilee, from India, Argentina, New Zealand. What happens today in Australia affects my world. Tonight, via television, I am with my neighbor's son in Viet Nam. Under the influence of God, suddenly all men are truly neighbors. Moreover, increasingly, we live in cities, away from our kin, where there are not only opportunities for growth, but where 

327 May 1967

 there are, also, much loneliness and unfriendliness. Family life undergoes great changes. More and more women work. Fathers commute long distances to work, and mothers who stay at home find that they become the primary teachers and disciplinarians of the children. Men and women create new patterns of husband and wife relationships. As man's technology grows, much drudgery of the past vanishes. There is time for creativity and learning as there has never been before. As our world shrinks, our universe expands. We must devise new methods of relating to and loving one another. If we are close to our Father in heaven, new ways of living will emerge, new patterns of family life develop. It will be exciting and satisfying as we find new ways to teach our children the gospel of understanding, love, and compassion. My mother is eighty-eight. The vigorous pace she set in the streets of Jerusalem is no longer possible as she walks with her cane. My grandmother is long dead. Yet amid all that is new, there remains the child at the mother's knee learning the history of God's teaching of man and the enduring values. Mother and grandmother still teach the child the compassion for all men that will some day link us together in love. The mother helps to open the doors for the child that lead to the love of learning. These endure no matter how fast and how great the change. There will always be mothers and grandmothers to help each generation find God. La THE GREATEST OF THESE The depth of thought that we attain, The wisdom of our searching here, The knowledge that we win by faith Are treasures life will hold most dear. The sage who works with questing mind, The brush that paints to please the eye, The poet's meter, word, and rhyme, These are gifts the heart holds high. Yet these are signs along the way That all our gifts are heaven's cost, That learning truth, we learn to love The poor, the lonely, and the lost. To give the hungry more than bread, To ransom captives from their chain, For painter, poet, and the sage These are treasure, gift, and gain.

@ Carolle Denton 4 328 Literary Contest Announcements 1966 The Relief Society Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually bythe General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work.