The Relief Society Magazine - May 1967, Vol. 54, No. 5

Well of Peace Peggy Tangren

The Cover: In the Solitudes, Timpanogos, Utah Photograph by Harold M. Lambert Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press

Frontispiece: [Not specified in document]

Art Layout: Dick Scopes

Illustrations: Mary Scopes

From Near and Far

Irene T. Fletcher Utah 1966 Mother of the Year Logan, Utah

Angela Lopez Semi, California

Levern M. Hansen Los Angeles, California

Marjorie Schmidt Paso Robles, California

Linda Marx Ottawa, Ontario Canada

Mrs. Albert Molling San Jose, California

Lucy H. Spackman, Leah B. Skidmore, and Mary J. Hill Relief Society Presidency Richmond, Utah

The Relief Society Magazine

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1967 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
$4.95. Happiness is based on accepting and living available: truth, through understanding, which is based on gaincare Be ing the power of good reasoning and properly following m A) revelation from God. Here is a valuable book to help you,;: the reader, effectively solve the problems of life through reasoning and revelation. By Sara and Irene Black $4.95 Here is an exciting and heart-warming novel of a colorful and troubled period in Church history — the settlement of the Mormon colonies in Mexico. The story tells of the suffering and hardships which were surmounted by a hardy people with boundless faith in the Restored Gospel. Strangers on Earth is also a tender love story that will touch a responsive cord in every woman's heart. Ee ae ae Oe ae a ae ee ee ee — ae oo tow ome ome be me SD — oe oe oe a eee WRITE NOW DESERET BOOK COMPANY, eseret B ook 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669 44 EAST SO. Recent ate a FeNwooo MALL SALT LAKE CITY Please send me: 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST, ORANGE, CALIFORNIA _ (J REASONING, REVELATION — AND YOU! == CUSTRANGERS ON EARTH. I enclose a check/money order for total amount $... An Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake must add 34%% sales tax: California eidents ordering from Giince must add 4% sales tax. Or, bill my established account [_ ] OPEN A CHARGE ACCOUNT NOW! Send for information. R. S. May 67 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Its NEW... Beneficial's Lifetime Security A unique "once-in-a-lifetime" plan that provides these benefits: throughout lifetime of policyowner, with additional coverage at peak need periods when family is growing. E Paid up for life at age 65, with no additional cost. E "Lifetime Security" can be extended to become an all-in-one family policy at small extra cost. E Premium stays at same low level throughout life of the policy. ¢ Prote