[Vol54 | May 1967 | Page 341 | Fiction | Until June | C. Anderson]
@ Armoral Kent Willard Luce Gypress and the Ocean near Gualala, Calitornia Until = June C. Anderson ¢ The book said walking was good for her condition, so Evelyn made daily excursions somewhere: to the grocery store for nonfattening specials, downtown for window shopping, over to Connie's for consoling words, or to the park, for herself. Now, five days past the due date, she felt she would be happiest at the park. She had kissed Don goodbye, sending him off to work with the half-hearted promise that she would call him if anything happened. The breakfast dishes had been done, and the house inspected. Convinced that everything was ready for her mother's arrival, Evelyn tied a blue scarf about her hair and reached for the umbrella. When she opened the door, April came filtering through the screen: the patter, the moisture, the peace of spring rain. Evelyn moved cautiously up the stairs of the basement apartment and started down the wet sidewalk. Her senses were alert, as they had always seemed to be during the past nine months. Today, the air was clean with the fragrance of rain and lilacs; a breeze gently moved the lacy green limbs that reached longingly toward the gray sky. When Evelyn turned the corner and began the last two-block stretch 

341 May 1967

 toward the park, an old woman appeared in the doorway of a small white house and shook a braided rug jerkily. Evelyn could feel the tired eyes upon her, and, suddenly, became conscious of herself as someone else saw her. She smiled toward the house and hurried on. At length, she moved gratefully under the arched gate of the park and into the refuge of the high, trimmed hedges, the flower gardens, and the trees. Little girls were _ sloshing through the puddles that had collected on the sidewalks. Boys, undaunted by the shower, were skipping rocks across the pond. Evelyn looked at the children and thought that soon she would be the mother of one. It would be a boy, of course, because Don said it would. All these months she had looked at little boys, like the blonde tossing the boomerang and jumping back so as not to be hit; or like the one squeaking in his rubber coat down the not-so-slippery slide. A little boy who looks like Don, she thought, a little boy to teach and to love. She paused at the fountain to watch the billowing particles that climbed into the air, and then splashed down onto the lily pads. The wind fanned a mist across her flushed face. ''A boy," she whispered as she looked toward the children. Mornings in the park pass quickly, even on rainy days, and soon the youngsters had gone home for lunch. Evelyn walked slowly to the swings and, finding a dry one, sat down alone. She knew someone would be upset if they saw her sitting there, but it felt good to move back and forward effortlessly, to feel the 342 spring air flowing about her, and to listen to the tall pine trees that made a wall around her and sent a Christmas fragrance into her heart. She felt very much like a child again, with the whole world speaking to her. The rain kept reminding her of something, and, at length, all thoughts began to focus on a childhood day long ago: She was in the sixth grade and wandered down the dripping clean alley behind her parents' home. Houses looked different from the back. Soft green gardens peeked through the fences; raindrops stood on the cherry blossoms; flavor floated in the moist air like steam from a simmering kettle. At the end of the alley, she turned down the hill. Water splashing in the gutter disappeared with twirling, winged maple seeds into the drain on the corner. I took twenty minutes to walk to school, and it was now a quarter to nine, so she started running down Franklin Avenue. Drops pounding against her face reminded her that she had forgotten a scarf. Last year's raincoat and boots were too small, so she didn't worry about them, but her hair bobbed in annoying slick brown curls down her forehead. Occasionally, she didn't jump far enough and puddles sloshed onto her legs. Water running from the terraced lawns trickled down the cement. Trees arching over the street and sidewalk were gypsy arms dancing in the breeze. The sky was gray, and the spring earth wore countless shades of green. The last bell rang when she started up the stone stairs to the playground. Her thin plaid coat flew open, making wings behind her, as she raced across the huge, — deserted schoolyard. Then, suddenly, she was pattering down the hot, dark, disciplined halls and up the stairway. At her classroom door, she took a deep breath and cautiously pushed into the light, trying to sneak into the cloak hall, but Miss Allen had been watching for her. "Evelyn Harris, you're soaked. Take off those shoes and stockings and go comb your hair. I surely hope you're dry before the winner is anounced." She put her shoes on the floor by the radiator, and on the window sill lay the wet, uncomfortable stockings that had slipped down around her ankles. She placed her coat over a vacant desk and went to comb her hair. The purple dress was streaked wet down the front where her coat had flown open. She combed the short wet curls with her fingers and shook the skirt. Why had it rained today? The next hours were days in passing. Evelyn's eyes roamed to the window beside her. Budding leaves pressed against the pane; purple, half-opened iris lined the gray sidewalk below. Rain trickled down the steamed glass. The bell rang and spelling competition began. The clock was continuing quietly from minute to minute, when, at last, the door opened, and the principal's messenger entered. Evelyn blushed and told herself again not to be disappointed. "The second princess," the boy read, "is Beverly Hill. The first princess," he conUntil tinued, '"'is Jeanne Black. And the Queen is Evelyn Anne Harris." Her eyes widened. Smiling, she caught the nearest hand and held tight. The class gathered around; she saw nothing but smiles. Sunshine diffused through the clouds. What a lovely day! Tur lunch bell sounded and children pushed into the corridors. Water from. The steaming windows had collected on the sill and dampened her stockings, so Evelyn pattered down the dry, warm floor barefoot. With her laughing class at the long cafeteria table, she spread out her lunch and was taking the first bite when something dropped on her hair. Reaching up, she picked from the damp locks a piece of orange peel. She looked around. Everyone was eating. A few minutes later something flew against her back and fell to the floor. Grapes. She flung around in time to see children at the nearest table turn innocently back to their meals. Bits of bread came at her and her friends. She put her unfinished sandwich into the sack and slid from her chair. Whispers followed her from the room. "Boy, she sure looks like a queen. A barefoot queen. It must have been the little kids that voted for her. Who else would be that dumb?" In the late afternoon, Evelyn walked home in brittle shoes and dirty stockings. The rain had stopped, but the sky was still gray. She did not run now. Dipping birds glided in silence. Her head was stiff, her lips tight together. The last bit of rain trickled down the gutter; cinders in the alley were almost dry; 

343 May 1967

 many of the cherry petals had fallen to the new grass. At length, the girl opened the screen door of her home. Without looking up from the ironing, her mother noted the quiet entrance, and asked softly of the girl who leaned by the kitchen door, ""What's the matter, dear, didn't you win?" Evelyn was silent, her head throbbing, and her throat, dry. Before she realized it, she was warm in her mother's arms crying out the words. Soft hands were brushing back her hair. Then all was quiet. She knew her mother would speak, and she listened, safely nestled in the cotton dress. "Sweetheart, there is only one real kind of queen in this world, and that's the queen mother in every good home. No other kind really matters. Someday you will be a real queen. Someday you will hold a little girl in your arms and you will understand what I mean. You'll never know, until then, how much I love you, and how much I'm hurt when you are...." It was strange how clear the recollection was. Every word and feeling was alive, as if Evelyn had actually stepped back into the past and relived her earliest memory of the words that her mother had spoken so often "You'll never know how much I love you, until...."" And Evelyn felt once more the reaction she had each time her mother had said it, "Oh, Mother, I know you love me. I know everything you have done for me. I understand. How can you think I don't, unless you think I'm an_ ungrateful child?" Then once again she could hear her mother's words, 344 "You'll never know how much I love you, until...." The sky was clearing as Evelyn left the park. Blue was beginning to mingle with the parting gray, and sunshine fell in soft beams toward the earth. Birds fluttered from branch to branch singing notes of anticipation to their nests. Some of them soared in the dappled sky, and then floated on unseen breezes between the clouds. Evelyn wasn't the only one noticing the world around her. The children were returning from lunch, and one little boy was running with a huge red kite down the street. A little boy, she thought, as she pondered her mother's words, would be unable to understand the depth of his mother's love. AZA5 [7 had happened so suddenly. Evelyn was waking up in the recovery room after a wonderful deep sleep. It was all over now. She had been exhausted when they wheeled her from the delivery room. They seemed to know, and had let her sleep. She looked at the white ceiling as the thoughts rushed in upon her. How foolish she had been to think it would never be over. Last night she had known, and felt it all begin. She marked each movement, unbelievingly, silently, not knowing whether to wake Don. When she finally did, he took over, rushing around, calling the doctor, trying to hurry her as she moved slowly, wonderingly. And that was all she could clearly remember until the baby's cry. "Is it a boy?" she asked. "No," beamed the doctor, "you have a little girl." "A girl. Oh, a little girl!" she laughed and cried her tears of joy. And still she could see the love and pride in Don's face-as he looked at the little girl who was such a sweet surprise to both of them. "We'll call her Celestia Anne, for our mothers," he whispered. "I realized, while I was waiting, that we hadn't decided on a girl's name. Does it sound all right?" It was perfect, Celestia Anne. The door clicked open. "We're going to move you to your room now," the nurse said pleasantly, "and soon we'll bring your baby to you." Evelyn could feel her old impatience coming on, and tried to think of something to occupy her mind. First her thoughts turned to Don. How was he getting along without her? She was glad her mother would be there tomorrow to look after him—her mother. She could see the brown hair with streaks of silver, and the same sweet face that seemed sweeter with the passing time, and she could hear the words again, "You'll never know how much I love you until...." Evelyn thought she knew now. It must be the beauty of the baby's first cry. How lovely that was. Or maybe it was the happiness she had seen in Don's face. Her parents had shared that many years before, and Evelyn hadn't known. What more could there be except the blessing of 'holding that little girl in her arms, loving her, and caring for her? At last the white ceiling stopped going by, and Evelyn was settled in her room. She tried to fight her impatience, but could -child, not someone else's, Until only watch the ticking minutes until the nurse moved through the door again, and then a little girl was in her arms—her own the first living thing she had ever received. Evelyn knew that she was experiencing something that she could never fully share with anyone. Warmth and love flowed like tears. Toward the helpless infant that lay trustingly in her arms. She fought to clear her thinking —to define for herself, if for no one else—the new feelings that swept over her., Tiny warm fingers were clinging to her own. Fingers, she * > thought, that will grow. What would that tiny hand one day accomplish? Drowsy, dark eyes wandered toward and then away from Evelyn's face. Little eyes that would soon recognize her and Don, and would teach that little body to imitate what they saw. Feet were wiggling. Such small feet that barely reached across Evelyn's palm. Where would those feet carry this little girl? Who was this little one? And then Evelyn realized that Celestia knew nothing now of who she was. She had forgotten. That would be the great task she and 

345 May 1967

 Don would face. They would have to teach Celestia who she was, and show her how to live so she would remain as pure as possible. Evelyn shuddered as she thought, for the first time, how much it would hurt to see sin, pain, or sorrow touch the little life that slept in her arms, and yet she know it could and must come... All was silent. Evelyn was caught in the rapture of caressing a slumbering child, and as she did, she knew that her little girl could not remember this day and many of the ones to come. She realized that it would be many years before this tiny child would know how much she was cherished and loved. Without being aware that she had ever heard the words before, Evelyn began whispering to the tiny, peaceful face, "You'll never know how much I love you until you have a little one of your own." She caught her breath and wiped her eyes, overcome with a longing to see her mother and tell her how much she hadn't understood, and how much she was beginning to learn. - ® @In the Relief Society sessions of the stake quarterly conferences being conducted during this quarter of the year (1966), emphasis is being placed on the role of Relief Society in exercising watchcare over all Latter-day Saint homes through the visiting teaching program. Particular stress is being placed, also, upon the program as a resource of the bishop in obtaining, through the Relief Society ward president at the ward council meeting, significant information relative to the attitudes, the circumstances, and needs of families as revealed during the visit, particularly where there are inactive or unenrolled Relief Society members. This information becomes of value to the home teachers as they coordinate the efforts of Priesthood quorums and auxSESEsespsesesesesesesesnseeese shay aesese sesh Standard of Performance in Visiting Teaching President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the Presidencies Department of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 29, 1966] rer Crererereremerer cee ce erence} iB iA B e B & B & eB B iliary organizations under the direction of the bishop in activating all family members. As we consider the present intensified effort of the Church in its family-centered gospel program (which is conducted in each ward under the authority of the bishop, with the home teachers as his designated representatives in working with families), the Relief Society visiting teachers, as a reliable source of information obtained through their visits to homes, give to our visiting teaching program a new dimension. From the quarterly conference material I quote: The import of the visiting teacher report imposes upon the visiting teacher the responsibility of exercising extreme care to avoid misjudging the family situation, and to report precisely and factually without bias or exaggeration.