THE LADY PIONEERS.

	[Written for the celebration of Pioneer Day at Ephraim
Sanpete Co., July 24, 1890.]

	This day is ours.  'Twill ever live in story
		That first thy founders, Utah, saw thy face.
	Happy the man whose name is clearly written, 
		On thy fair scroll and in an honored place.
	They sowed the seed whose harvest we shall reap,
		They laid our sure foundations broad and deep.

	But man come not alone—a conquering hero
		To pioneer this land, our Deseret,
	But true and brave, and his own strength completeness
		Woman shared the toil and each privation met.
	"Dwell not alone Oh man" for Heaven decreed it
		Earth has not changed much though it’s older grown,
	And it is true—reluctant sound to own it
		Man never did accomplish much alone.

	And have you ever heard in song or story
		The names of those our Lady Pioneers
	Who left their homes to share in unknown sorrows.
		Of hunger, weariness, and trembling fears?
	Each shared the toil; drank the same cup of sorrow,
		Lifted like burdens as the man whose name,
	Wreathed with her sweetness, grace and holy fervor
		Is written in the book of lasting fame.

	And Harriet Wheeler Young, born in New Hampshire
		First on the list as lady pioneer,
	And Clara Decker Young her fair, pure daughter,
		Bride of a prophet in her sixteenth year.
	And Ellen Sanders Kimball from far Norway,
		Called by the voice of God her part to fill,
	Children of destiny these three fair women,
		Who gave their lives up to His holy will.

	Now don’t infer from what I’ve said of sweetness
		These women sat down and let men do the work.
	Things wouldn’t have been done with such completenes
		If they had been the kind to faint and shirk.
	Beside his plane and chisel stood her scissors
		His ax, her broom; his scythe, her buzzing reel;
	She matched against his harrow, plow and saddle,
		The labors of her loom and spinning-wheel.

	Their hands were white, but not too white to toil,
		Their garments coarse, but made them seem more fair,
	Their voices clear, lifted in songs of praise,
		Thrilled into rapture all the desert air.
	And their reward was love's untarnished flame,
		And in their souls the peace of those who’ve trod
	With all Christ’s armor on day after day,
		Unshodden through the Holy House of God.

	They wisdom learned close to the fountain-head,
		Drank righteousness as from a flowing cup;
	Grew in a holy faith so strong and firm,
		They loved not sin; Death called no terrors up.
	They gave to earth a race of human souls
		So pure from taint, so free from earthly dust,
	The angels sang for rapture in the skies,
		And God placed in their hands a holy trust.

	While we accord to man all of his own,
		And with the laurel crown his kingly brow;
	Do not forget the mothers of the men
		Who are the hope and pride of Zion now,
	Those fair, fine vessels whom love and sacrifice
		Prompted to drink privations bitter cup,
	"If man is King, then woman is his Queen."
		And to his side let fame now lift her up.
