SALT LAKE CITY,	-	-	SEPTEMBER 15, 1890.


[Column 1]
	THE TIMES IN WHICH WE ARE
				LIVING.
	There are many notable events now transpir-
ing with this people that cause the Latter-day
Saints to reflect seriously upon their situation and
to look unto the Lord for His special guidance in
passing through what has been very appropriately
termed “the narrows.”
	The attempts made by the government of this
great and free Republic to dispossess the Church
of the means appropriated by the people for
special and legitimate purposes, pertaining to the
the interests of its spiritual growth (which always
embraces more or less the temporal) and to con-
strue everything that is done of a public nature
into an effort on the part of this people to support
polygamy, or encourage disloyalty to the Union
seems so utterly inconsistent when considered in
the light of reason and common sense, that one
would naturally think people of ordinary intelli-
gence would see at once that there was a mystery
underlying the whole transaction and would wish
to honestly arrive at some conclusion of the real
causes that had led to this religious crusade for
such indeed it is.
	In this enlightened age of the world’s civiliza-
tion and in America the cradle of religious liberty,
it is more than passing strange, if persecution
can be tolerated by a people of advanced
thoughts and ideas. As a sweeping assertion the
saints are familiar with the actual cause. It is the
Church of God. Its influence is being felt, and
great changes are being wrought and “everything
that can be shaken will be shaken,—so said the
prophet.”
	The evil one seeks by all the means in his
power to overthrow the true Church with its
holy priesthood and thwart the purposes of
Jehovah. Taken in its large sense this embodies
the whole matter in a nut-shell. The world of
mankind cannot see and comprehend this, be-
cause they are blinded by prejudice, therefore
they do not understand that the power of the
priesthood excites the envy, malice, jealousy and
hatred of Satan and his emissaries; and that he
walks up and down the earth figuratively speak-
ing provoking bitterness and emnity against
those who have enlisted under the banner of the
King of heaven in this last dispensation, to pre-
pare a place and a people for the coming of the
Messiah and the Millennial reign.
	If the people who consent silently even to the
persecution of the L. D. Saints would contrast the
condition of things now, with that of the true
Church in the days of Jesus, or with that of the
children of Israel in olden times; and examine
the Scriptures, (in which all believers think they
have eternal life) they would at least see a simi-
larity to the course now being pursued; and that
as it was in the days of the Savior, so it is now,
[Column 2]
unpopularity of those who have accepted divine
revelation through prophets and inspired men;
evil reports and misrepresentations are taken as
genuine truths, and what follows? why this people
are deprived of the rights and privileges to which
they are entitled under a free government, they
are robbed of property rightfully acquired through
industry, thrift, perseverance and the blessing of
God upon their fields, their flocks and their
labors.
	Nevertheless they still trust in Him whose out-
stretched arm is over all the earth, and they know
their cause is just and though men and nations
may oppress, yet in His own due time will the
Lord, whose laws they have tried to keep, effect
their deliverance, and ultimate triumph.
	Meantime should they sit idly down and wait?
O, no, there is work for all, and it will require the
best thoughts, the most earnest efforts and the
utmost diligence to move onward and upward and
keep pace with the times in this progressive age
of the world’s history. Trials are but preparatory
to the great things about to transpire in which
this people will be called to take an active part,
and it behooves all to be diligent and faithful,
humble and obedient, that they may not falter or
fall by the wayside because of hardship or perse-
cution through lack of faith, but hold on to the
iron rod for the race is not to the swift nor the
battle to the strong but to him that endureth unto
the end.


