MRS. LEAVITT IN DENMARK.

	I had the pleasure of attending a woman’s
suffrage meeting yesterday, called by the
Danish Society,at which were present delegaets
from Sweden, Norway, and Finland.
	The speaking was in their languages except
that I said a few words in English, and was
interpreted, though nearly half the persons in
the room raised their hands as able to under-
stand English.
	Mrs. Selmer, who accompanied me,  trans-
lated a few things,  but as I understoood so
little of what was said, I should like to make
a few very brief notes ef what I observed in other ways
	First I was struck with the number of
ladies who wore short hair. Again, I did
not observe one corseted waist among them
all, that is, the leaders and speakers who
were moving about and who came under my
observation.
	One only of the ladies exhibited an oratory
formed after the model taught to men in the
schools. All the others talked in the most
easy and natural way, with smiles and gestures
intermingled,  and one laughed with her
audience.  Only one was at all slow or
hesitating in her speech.
	Objectors were asked to speak, and two or
three gentlemen “improved the opportunity,"
but from the laughter that followed the brief
reply of some lady, I fancy they gained little
from their endeavor.
	I have heard two points criticised by ladies
who believe in suffrage, but who do not act
with this society.  The first is that too many
of the society go out of their way to talk
against Christianity.  To say nothing of the
beliefs of either class, I think it bad policy in
suffragists to attack religious beliefs.  It is
certain that suffrage cannot be carried
without the help of Christian men and
women, and it is also true that many will
not join a movement which seems to them,
because of utterances of some of the leaders,
—which are not, however, a part of any rules
or constitutions,—to be contrary to their own
most cherished beliefs.  The opposite course,so
constantly followed by the Woman's Journal,
and upon the platform which that paper re-
presents, with its results, shows very clearly
that I am right.
	Another hindrance is that several of the
suffragists are said to assume mannish not
manly ways.  I saw nothing of this, but to sit
in a meeting with an arm on the back of a
chair and the hand thrust in the hair, and
one leg thrown over the other, casts a needless
slur upon a grand and fundamental move-
ment.
	We err if we copy after the “ways” of men.
Let us be ourselves, and not weak imitations
of men, and thus sooner will we show those
who are not yet with us that the movement is
not unsexing women, and the sooner shall we
show them that education,  thought-power,
executive ability, courage, truth are as compati-
ble with feminine delicacy and purity, femi-
nine sweetness and grace, as purity,gentleness,
sweet temper and unselfishness are with true
manliness in men.  I hesitated to speak of
another point, as, perhaps, it applies best to
one lady, lest the shadow should fall upon
others; still.  I decide to mention it.  In the
northern continental cities, there are as yet
but few lady physicians.  In one of these cities
that I have recently visited, a lady physician
of much ability and skill, fully in accord with
the movements for the elevation of women,
joins with men in smoking and drinking, and
the use of oaths—no, I would say it squarely
as I would of a man—swearing. These were
not her habits until she began to practise
medicine.  Presently when the movement is
more general here, as it is in America and
[column 2]
England, these unpleasant things will be rated
at their true value, merely as individual eccen-
tricities or mistakes.
	It appears to me we should all be careful
not to depart from what is truly feminine, nor
from any badge of femininity in dress or
manners, unless it is something that really
hampers or weakens us.
	It is sure that “emancipation of women” is
progressing rapidly in these Scandinavian
lands, and that the movement is much farther
advanced than in the more southern countries.
			MARY CLEMENT LEAVITT.
	Kjobenham, Denmark, Aug. 5,1890.


