CONFERENCES.

	Meeting of the Relief Society at Paragoonah,
Sunday evening August 1890 at half past 7 p. m.
Sister Eliza A. Barton presiding; singing, "Lo
the mighty God appearing," prayer by Bishop
Jones, singing "Great God attend while Zion
sings," minutes of former meeting read. Sister
Jane S. Richards was introduced by Pres. Barton
and addressed the meeting in a most interesting
manner touching upon many subjects calculated
to inspire faith and perseverance in spiritual
duties, especially in prayer and in attending meet-
ings. Spoke upon the necessity of union and re-
ferred to the many temptations to wrong doing
that beset and were in the pathway of this people.
Referred to the advancement of science and the
many inventions of the present time. Spoke
beautifully upon charity and forgiveness of one
another. Exhorted the sisters to meet often, sing
good hymns, read good books and study to im-
prove in all good things.
	Sister E. B. Wells dwelt upon similar subjects
urged the sisters to put into practice the good
teachings they had heard, and to embrace every
opportunity for improvement in the things that
would make them truly wise. Referred to the
advantages of the Relief Society, the Young
Ladies' and Primary Associations, and advised
the sisters to use their utmost endeavors to teach
the young people the principles of the Gospel.
She also gave some of her ideas upon woman's
work and progress.
	Bishop Jones spoke upon woman's position
and pursuits in life, made some excellent remarks
and illustrations upon the subject, also upon
charity and forgiveness, humility and forbearance
one towards another.
	Brother Barton expressed himself delighted to
hear the sisters from Salt Lake City and hoped all
who were present would be benefited by the good
instructions that had been given, rejoiced in the
principles of the Gospel and felt that the Relief
Society was a great blessing. Sister Sarah
Horsley Counselor to Sister Barton and also
Sister Benson of Parowan made some interesting
remarks and gave good instruction.
	Pres. Eliza Barton was greatly pleased with the
visit of the sisters from Salt Lake and the good
[Column 2]
things that had been spoken to encourage and
help them forward, felt they needed instruction in
their duties as a Relief Society but desired to do
all in her power in a humble way and spirit,
singing "Hail to the brightness of Zion's glad
morning." Prayer by Brother Horsley.

	At half past seven on Monday evening Aug.
11, the Relief Society met as per appointment in
the meeting house at Beaver, Sister Lucinda
Houd Pres. of the R. S. of that Stake presiding.
Pres. Murdock and many other leading local
brethren were present and a very large and atten-
tive audience of men and women. After singing
"O, God our help in ages past," prayer was
offered by Pres. Murdock, continued by singing
"All hail the glorious day." The first speaker
was Sister E. J. Bennett Counselor to Pres. Houd
and also President of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Beaver
Stake. Her remarks were excellent and practi-
cal. Pres. Houd followed her with a few remarks
expressing her pleasure that the sisters from Salt
Lake had visited them etc. Sister Houd then
called upon Sister R. W. Tyler who made a very
interesting speech and was followed by Sister
Bickley; each of these sisters spoke of their
work in the Relief Society and the various duties
and obligations it brought with it.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke upon political and
social matters especially upon marriage, giving
good advice to the young people. She also spoke
of the duties devolving upon the sisters in their
organizations and alluded to the saving of graind
which they had been counseled to do by President
Young.
	Sister Jane S. Richards spoke of the spiritual
work of the sisters, advised holding meetings
often, and keeping up the Quarterly Conferences;
also spoke of the need of saving grain and re-
ferred to the counsel given not only by Pres.
Young but Pres. Taylor and the living President
Wilford Woodruff. The sisters had never been
released from this mission given to them, and in
view of all the calamities transpiring in the world
it would seem necessary to have bread stuff on
hand. Referred to the scarcity of provision the
Saints had passed through and hoped we would
never see such times again. Sister Richards
said many comforting things to the people, Pres.
Murdock spoke a short time endorsed what had
been said, and testified to the faithfulness and
diligence of the sisters in Beaver Stake. Pres.
Houd made a few closing remarks, and the meet-
ing was dismissed with singing and prayer.

	At one o'clock Tuesday Aug. 12, there was a
meeting held at Minersville under the auspices of
the Relief Society Mrs. Rebecca Eyre presiding
Sisters Houd, Tyler and Bickley were present
having accompanied Sisters Richards and Wells,
thus far on their journey homeward. Meeting
opened with singing "I saw a mighty angel fly.'
Prayer by Counselor Geo. Eyre, singing, "Hark
ye mortals peace be still." Sister Eyre made a
few opening remarks welcoming the sisters and
invited her Counselor Sister Mary E. Lightner
to address the meeting. Sister Lightner spoke
upon the goodness and mercy of our Creator to
his children, and gave some interesting items of
the church in early days.
	Counselor Lydia McKnight, prayed for the
spirit of the Lord to be with us and gave some
idea of the labors that were performed by the
sisters in that place.
	Pres. Houd expressed her gratification in hav-
ing the opportunity to visit Minersville with the
traveling sisters and exhorted the sisters to love
one another, said we are all working bees in the
hive of Deseret, we must not be cast down, urged
the sisters to take the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and
gave much good motherly advice.
	The minutes of the previous meeting were then
ead by the Secretary which gave a very good


idea of the spirit of their meetings.
	Sister Jane S. Richards spoke of our having all
our faculties continued even to old age.
	Referred to Mother Gilbert who had been sixty
years in the Church, and was still living at the
ripe age of ninety years; dwelt eloquently upon
the coming of the Savior and the need of spiritual
development; also upon the bountiful harvest, the
influx of strangers in our midst, the need of sav-
ing grain and also fortifying our children againts
evil influences especially saloons and drinking
places. Sister Richards made a strong appeal to
the sisters to sustain their own publication the
Woman’s Exponent. 
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke upon several subjects
of interest particularly the blessing and privilege
of the work for the dead. Sisters R. W. Tyler
L. Houd, and the President Sister Eyre each said
a few words bearing testimony to the truth of the
principles of the everlasting Gospel and express-
ing their desires to be faithful and endure all
things. Choir sang “Joseph Smith's first prayer.”
Benediction by Wm. Wood.


