WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.
		LOGAN 6TH WARD CACHE STAKE.
	The Annual meeting of the 6th Ward Relief
Society was held in the Meeting House on
the 3d, of Sept. President Elizabeth Townsend
presiding. There were present, Stake Pres.
Orson Smith and wife. Relief Society President
Adeline Barber, and Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball
of Salt Lake City; with a good attendance of
the members. The minutes of the former
meeting were read. Roll was called. The
amount of means received and disbursed re-
ported. The amount of wheat and its condi-
tion, and suggestions made in regard to build-
ing a Relief Society House and Granary
which was encouraged by Brother Smith.
Sister Kimball related her experience in re-
gard to a similar undertaking, and said, "you
will be astonished at the ease with which it
will be accomplished if you will but make a
start." A few items were then read by the
Secretary on Relief Society work; of its first
organization by the Prophet Joseph Smith, in
Nauvoo in 1842; of its first move in Logan
and of the duties required, etc.
	President Smith approved of the Society,
was glad to see it had efficient officers and
thought its plans for further advancement
were excellent. It was concluded with a little
picnic provided by the two counselors.
					E. TOWNSEND, Pres.
		HUNTER WARD S. L. STAKE.
	The Relief Society of Hunter Ward S. L.
Stake met as per adjournment in the Ward
House on Thursday, September 4, at one
o'clock p.m. Mrs. Charlotte Neilson presid-
ing. Visitors from the City had been invited
and were present Pres. M. I. Horne her Coun.
E. S. Taylor and Sister Bathsheba W. Smith
Coun. to Zina D. H. Young and E. B. Wells,
also the Bishop one of his Counselors and a
goodly number of brethren and sisters for
such a sparsely settled district. Meeting
opened with singing "God moves in a mysteri-
ous way," prayer by Bishop Wm. Miller, sing-
ing, "The Glorious day is rolling on." The
secretary then read the minutes of the previous
meeting, which were very good containing
much food for thought and excellent advice;
the secretary also read the monthly donations
received at the last meeting, which showed a
spirit of benevolence and liberality creditable
to the local sisters.
	Pres. Neilson made a few opening remarks,
and expressed her pleasure in having the
sisters from Salt Lake City. Coun. Elmina
S Taylor was the first speaker, her remarks
were replete with the best instructions, she
dwelt upon the benefits to be derived from at-
tending the meetings of the sisters as well as
other meetings, and enjoined upon the mothers
to not only give good advice and teaching to
the children, watch as well as pray, but to set
worthy examples before them in all things,
[Column 2]
referred to the trials of the present time, and
realized that through these the saints would
prove their faithfulness; alluded to the love of
the world and of pleasure that was growing
in the midst of the saints.
	Pres. Horne spoke of the small things with
which the Relief Society dealt, referred to the
Savior's words concerning the widow's two
mites and his declaration that she had given
more than them all, because it was all she
possessed, made a very happy illustration of
this example, also spoke of the watchful care
of our Father in heaven over each one, which
was verified to us in his saying not even a
sparrow could fall to the ground without his
Maker's notice and that the hairs of our head
were all numbered. "We are now undergoing
the process of purification to prove our
integrity. The duties of the Relief Society are
arduous and especially those of the teachers;
we have both spiritual and temporal duties to
perform; visiting the sick and sorrowing, help-
ing in kindness those who are weak, the tried
and tempted, using our utmost influence against
the wiles and temptations of the world, that be-
set our young people; make our homes happy
and comfortable, teach our children to be
brave and industrious; be wise in looking after
the poor; we don't believe in beggers, it indicates
a bad state of society, though it is not always
the beggar that is the most dangerous element,
it is the smooth tongued and polished hypocrite
that are the most so after all. Beware of the
company of such persons, do not associate
with those who are not of our faith. The
speaker then referred to the importance of the
Relief Society and the words of Joseph at the
time he organized in Nauvoo. She advised the
sisters in regard to their means and spoke
especially upon the subject of saving grain,and
the building of storehouses.
	Counselor B. W. Smith, spoke of being
present at the first organization of the Relief
Society in Nauvoo, and of being intimately
acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and testified that all the principles he taught
were true,and would benefit the human family.
Spoke upon example as being better than pre-
cept, and upon faith, the healing of the sick by
administration of the laying on of hands; told
of the accident that betell her in May last and
gave God the glory, for her being restored to
health, she had not called upon Doctors, but
exercised faith in the ordinances; did not think
of dying after she was injured; blessed all
those present in the name of Jesus.
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke upon the grand
results achieved through the organization of
women, also upon true charity, and the disposi-
tion to look upon the bright side, referred to
the days of famine and of sickness, the trials
of the Saints in Nauvoo and in Winter Quarters
and thought for many reasons we ought to be
grateful notwith standing the persecutions of
the present time, for the Lord had greatly
prospered us in these valleys.
	Pres. C. Nielson made a few remarke ex-
pressing her pleasure in listening to the
remarks of the sisters and called upon the Coun.
to the Bishop A. A. Jones, who spoke briefly
upon charity and fault finding also of obedience
hearkening to counsel and the still small voice
of the spirit that would direct us in the path of
duty.
	Bishop Miller expressed himself in accord
with what had been spoken; he believed the
Relief Society would yet be called upon to
help those who now persecute us; deplored the
condition of the world in the midst of their ca-
lamities because they had not the spirit of
God to sustain them as the saints had, spoke
feelingly upon the duties of mothers.
	The President of the Primary Association
gave notice of the next meeting, and the
hymn "Behold the Savior comes" was sung.
Benediction by Sister Brown.


