LYDIA E. BECKER. 
	The friends were shocked by the telegraphic
announcement, Saturday July 19, of the death
of Lydia E. Becker, of diptheria, at Geneva,
Switzerland.
	Miss Becker was one of the leaders of the
woman's suffrage movement in England, and
well known on that side as an able persistent
advocate of equal rights for women. She was
the editor of the Woman's Suffrage Journal at
Manchester. This she conducted with a
single eye to secure parliamentry suffrage for
women. She watched the acts of parliament,
often going up to London during the sessions
and sending immense petitions for her favorite
measure. She regularly published the par- 
liamentary debates in her Journal, thus pre-
serving the history of this important move-
ment as it has gone on in England.
	She will be greatly missed from the suffrage
ranks and from suffrage work in England.
Her co-workers there will receive the warm
sympathy of the friends of the cause every-
where in the sudden and untimely death of
Mrs. Becker.						L.S.

	I have a very distinct remembrance of Miss
Becker as I saw her in the summer of 1872,
and from this may be allowed to make a brief
personal mention of her.
	At the time of which I speak she was very
prominent in the woman suffrage movement
and as its advocate was one of the most consider-
ed and respected. I heard her speak in public
once or twice. The first time was, I think,
at a crowded meeting in St. George's Hall,
London, at which Prof. Playfair, now Sir
Lionel, of that name,presided. 	
	She spoke with weight of thought and
assurance, and impressed me as a person who
had given much study to social problems. Her
voice had the pleasant English ring, the imita-
tion of which causes come of our elegantes to
gurgle and almost to choke, American throats
not answering to so deep an intonation. She
was, as I remember, of medium height and
over, stout, with a complexion neither dark
nor light, but indicating vigor of temperament;
her dress was careful and in good taste; her
greeting of the American suffragists frank and
friendly.
						JULIA WARD HOWE.
Woman’s Journal.


Mrs. Hannah Sullivan, who has just died at 
Newcastle, Wy., at the age of 111 years, is 
said to be the only woman centenarian who
ever voted.
	"Why is it," asks Col. Higginson, "that the
American magazines have marched in solid
column into England, and displaced the English
magazines?" It is because the American
magazine is a magazine. It brings people 
together- It is a place of comprehension.


