INTERESTING ITEMS.
	It was some time before we went on our journey
to England. Our cottage was near the office where
the President had business attended to; (the
date I cannot now remember) but I think it can
be found if necessary.—Brother Brigham was
said to be sick, after a day or two he was better,
and around.—Then a paper was sent to me to
read, and copy what I felt might interest me.
The slight indispostion of the President was the
effect of a Vision. I only copied a little piece
that might be with me all the time—and this was
the case the more than five years I was away.
	This same little memento, old but still whole, I
now copy for the help of others. It reads as fol-
lows:
	“Joseph stepped towards me and looked very
earnestly yet pleasantly. But before this, I asked
him what I should say to the people from him,
this was the answer:” “Tell the people to be
humble and faithful, and be sure to keep the
spirit of the Lord, and it will lead them right.
Be careful and not turn away the still small voice;
it will teach you how to do, where to go, it will
yield the fruits of the Kingdom—Tell the brethren
to keep their hearts open to conviction, so
that when the Holy Ghost comes to them, their
hearts will be ready to receive it. They can tell
the spirit of the Lord from all other spirits, it will
whisper peace and joy to their hearts and souls;
it will take malice, hatred, strife, and all evil from
their hearts and their whole desire will be to do
good, bring forth righteousness, and build up the
Kingdom of God. Tell the brethren if they will
do this, follow the spirit of the Lord, they will
go right. Be sure to tell the people to keep the
spirit of the Lord; and if they will, they will find
themselves just as they were organized by our
Father in Heaven before they came into the
world. Our Father in Heaven organized the
human family but they are all disorganized and in
great confusion.” “Joseph then showed me the
pattern how they were in the beginning this I
cannot describe, but I saw it and saw where the
Priesthood had been taken from the earth; and
how it must be joined so there will be a perfect
chain from Father Adam to his latest posterity.
Tell the people to be sure to keep the spirit of the
Lord and follow it and it will lead them just right."
	The whole was very interesting, but this was all
I cared to take from the manuscript.
								S. G. R.


[Column 1]
	    AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE.
	The opening of the Agricultural College
situated at Logan, Cache Co., was a great event
[Column 2]
in Utah, and a gala day for Logan and Cache Co.
Many distinguished visitors were present from
other counties, and telegrams of congratulation
were received from those specially interested liv-
ing at a distance who could not be present.
	The hour for commencing the exercises was
10 a. m. The lecture hall was well filled and
there were present of the Board of Trustees, W.
S. McCormick, President; Gov. A. L. Thomas;
W. H. Brown and Mr. Hills, of Utah county;
M. B. Sowles, of Salt Lake; R. W. Cross of
Weber county; J. T. Hammond and C. F. Olsen,
of Cache county; also Moses Thatcher, G. W.
Thatcher, Bishop Wm. B. Preston, Mrs. Eddy,
G. G. Bywater,, of Salt Lake; Orson Smith, S.
M. Molen, Isaac Smith, Rev. E. W. Greene,
Judge William Goodwin, Commissioner C. C.
Goodwin, Treasurer Bolivar Robers, of Salt
Lake; Mayor I. D. Haines, R. S. Watson, Seth
A. Langton, James A. Langton, W. H. Apperley,
Dr. J. M. Tanner, A. G. Barber, John Bench, W.
E. Partington, John T. Caine, Jr., S. A. Kenner,
E. R. Nielson and many others. Of course Prof.
Sanborn, president of the faculty, and others of
the faculty were also in attendance.
	Pres. McCormick first addressed the vast as-
sembly and announced that the Agricultural
College of Utah was now open and ready for the
dedicatory services. He made very appropriate
and suggestive introductory remarks.
	The opening exercise was a piano solo by Mrs.
R. W. Sloan.
	Pres. McCormick in a rather humorous manner
introduced Prof. Sanborn of the Experiment
Station of Utah and President of the College, who
after some preliminary remarks said: “By the in-
troduction of these colleges was projected into
the educational designs of this country a new
idea for a new class. The old-classical education
I think might be termed a dress parade education.
By the institution of agricultural educational
colleges a broader and a deeper idea was in-
troduced—an idea which recognized the great
value of the productive classes, and the necessity
of giving to them the benefit of scientific re-
searches, of encouraging a new form of education
with the wisdom of giving them the benefit of a
higher culture than they had previously enjoyed.
He dwelt at some length upon the future de-
velopment of the race through the medium of the
new education, and this he believed fully because
of what this education had done for man in the
past. It had procured his physical, mental and
religious freedom.”
	Here Mr. Lamoreaux sang a song which was
warmly received.
	Professor Sanborn then read the following tele-
gram, just then received from Hon. John T. Caine,
Washington, D. C.
	PRESIDENT J. W. SANBORN:—I congratulate
the people of the Territory upon the opening of
the Agricultural College of Utah under such
favorable auspices. An act of Congress, recently
approved, appropriates to Agricultural Colleges
fifteen thousand dollars for each year, increasing
the amount one thousand dollars a year for ten
years thereafter. At the end of that time the ap-
propriation to be $25,000 annually. This, in ad-
dition to the appropriation of $15,000 for the ex-
periment stations. Success to the Agricultural
College of Utah.
							JOHN T. CAINE.
	(Applause.)
	Pres. McCormick then introduced the Governor
of Utah Ter. Arthur L. Thomas. In the course
of his remarks the Governor said:“As a Territory
Utah has done well for education. Reading in
the statutes we find that very soon after the
founding of this Territory, an act was passed
establishing the University of Deseret. It was
an evidence of great courage to do so great a
thing at so early a day. Reading in the law will
[Column 3]
disclose how broad was the basis on which it
was founded. The Deseret University can not
be so great an institution as it may become until
the Territory has schools sufficiently advanced to
send up to the University a class of students
more highly educated than now. Free schools
will do much to this end if the present law can be
enforced, as I believe it will. The next act was
the founding of an institution for the education of
deaf mutes, by which they can become less re-
moved from us and be made of greater use as
men. Then came the establishment of the reform
school. Then follows the agricultural college.
The passage of this act was the first time that the
great agricultural classes had been recognized in
Utah. It seems to me that the agricultural
classes, like the soil they cultivate, are ever
patient and yielding. All the good, the success
of the world and of the race is directly traceable
to agriculture and to the industries founded upon
it. The agricultural are the best classes of our
citizens, and in their ranks is found in trying
times the greatest patriotism and loyalty in the
world. Troubles never arise from the agri-
cultural classes.”
	Bishop Wm. B. Preston was the next speaker,
he gave a brief sketch of agricultural pursuits, in
detail, and the needs and advantages thereof, and
after summing it all up says:“May I add also that
in the education of the man, the heart should not
be forgotten; and that by the great intelligence
brought to bear upon agriculture—the primal pur-
suit—the labor of the farmer may become a more
popular pursuit; and that the straying mind of
youth may be recalled with delight to the best
and oldest pursuit of the human race.”
	After Bishop Preston had finished, Mrs. R.
W. Sloan sang an operatic selection which was
highly applauded.
	Mrs. S. W. Eddy then delivered an address
upon the higher education of woman which is
said by those present to have been the most
brilliant effort of the day. The Logan Journal
promises to give her speech in full in its columns,
which will be anxiously looked for.
	Geo. G. Bywater Esq., then read a paper on
the relation of mechanics to education. His
paper was an able effort and was warmly ap-
plauded.
	Next was a telegram from the father of the bill
which brought the Agricultural College into ex-
istence.
					MANTI, U. T., Sept. 4, 1890.
	PROF. SANBORN, Logan:
	I congratulate the people of Utah on the
auspicious event of the opening of an Agricultural
College and Experiment Station in Logan. May
this institution prove successful in endearing the
noblest of all pursuits to the hearts of our youth,
and in furnishing our farmers with such methods
as may facilitate their labors and bring them the
greatest results.
				Yours truly,
						ANTON H. LUND.
	This dispatch was also received with applause.
	Mr. R. C. Easton then sang “Annie Laurie,”
with such effect that the assemblage would not
rest until they heard another verse.
	Hon. Moses Thatcher followed in the line of
Mrs. Eddy, by showing the power within the reach
of woman. He referred to Miss Carroll who
planned the opening of the Tennessee river
which decided the late civil war in favor of the
Union, and to Bismarck, who, while he made
emperors and nations bow, was himself humbled
by a woman.
	Dr. J. M. Tanner also responded in a brief but
happy effort, contending that while the new idea
of education would become more and more popu-
lar, it would only serve to increase the interest
and strengthen the old. Therefore he rejoiced at
the opening of this college and wished it God-
speed.


Rev. E. W. Greene spoke briefly, and referred
to the absence of skilled mechanics among young
people here, and their great necessity, and was
thankful that such an institution as this was
established and which was calculated to increase
the number of skilled laborers among the young
of Utah.
	Short addresses were also  made by R. W.
Sloan, W. H. Snelling, J. A. Langton, J. F.
Wells and C. C. Goodwin.
	Messrs. Easton and Lamoureaux sang "When
the Swallows Homeward Fly" with very excellent
effect.
	Benediction being pronounced by Rev. E. W. 
Greene, the dedicatory services were over.


