LETTER TO THE SISTERS.
Cardston, Lee's Creek, Canada,
				August 20th, 1890.

	I awoke in the morning with these words in
my mind,
		"If you love me feed my sheep."
	God has truly given us Shepherds of His own 
choosing that have fed us the bread of Eternal
life these many years, and through our many trials
God has not forsaken us. Our confidence in Him
should not be shaken.
	Let us search the scriptures, and also words
given direct to cheer the many lonely and weary
ones whose souls need consolation; for by so do-
ing our lives are sweetened with the honey of 
truth; the sun may shine through all gathering
clouds of persecution, to give light to our path,for
Father has made it so simple and plain. The 
world, yes, the saints, oft make mistakes and 
seek to climb rugged paths that do not result in
their best good, we need strength and wisdom
every day and hour to be given us,to keep in sight
the star of peace.
	I am here in the great north west of Canada,
and it is so quiet like primitive Utah. My
thoughts wander over this sea of land covered
with fine grass, and wonder for the future; the 
God given Queen yet lives, the dignity of her ex-
cellent laws has been maintained, we honor their
justice, and may they never be sullied by a policy
that injures the innocent. Any tract of land that
we have ever dwelt upon has been paid for and 
blest by the Ruler of heaven and Maker of the
earth for which we return thanks; we should have
confidence in her Majesty's laws for over fifty 
years no religious persecution has been tolerated
against the saints.
	In this quiet nook my health is improving and
thus I feel to labor and encourage others to walk
in the path given us by the organizations so com-
plete. They enable us to work on a broader
platform and to do more good than any women on
the earth.
	I have confidence in our faithful, tried sisters
that are caring for the flock in our sphere, bless-
ing the sick and afflicted, so self-sacrificing to
bless others and they lay up treasures in heaven.
	Sister Jane S. Richards and Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith are with you at home and are ever de-
sirous to bless and comfort with many other faith-
ful and true sisters; seek their advice and to meet
with the Relief Society for mutual benefit and
much good is done by promoting confidence and
faith, and thus we gain wisdom and knowledge;
one sure key to direct us is this, that which builds up 
is from above, and the reverse is from
beneath.
	I would say to my sisters who are scattered, it 
requires a team (many can be their own team-
sters) seek to assemble with the sisters, all saints
should have their names enrolled in the Relief
Society, we need the faith of each other to ad-
vance in spiritual life, we are commanded to con-
tend earnestly for the faith once delivered to the
saints, I trust ere long to be with you, it was righ
[column 2]
that I came. Here in Canada I find the true and
faithful, seeking to do the Father's will. Although
no echo of steam rends the air, no pomp or 
splendor glistens to allure the attention of old or 
young. The love that adorns saints and happi-
fies stimulates to action, there must be a variety
and here are the toils of life and the same kind
that is met with in new countries; there is but
very little sickness 3 deaths in 3 years; there is
one very sick brother now, through an accident
was thrown into a stream of water and took cold.

	To the sisters throughout the world let us be
true to ourselves and our God, remembering we 
are in the fold of Christ, His spirit has sanctioned
our legal entry, and if we will feed the sheep, the
lambs will not go a stray, let us not loose sight of
the truth, the Shepherd careth for the flock, for-
getting not our every day duties,and caring for the 
redemption of the dead that we may lay up 
treasures in heaven.
	I trust the Presidents have looked after their re-
ports. It is with much labor that the Secretaries
prepare their reports, this also will bring a rich 
reward to those that get an experience.
	Isaiah says the daughters of Zion shall be
polished after the similitude of a palace, and this
will be brought about by all doing their duty, and
may all have the gift of wisdom with power to
over come that we may have faith to feed the 
flocks that they faint not.
				ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
					President Relief Society.


