XXVIII.

	Our lives are full of mystery so deep;
		We cannot fathom all the years may bring,
	The angels have some secrets which they keep,
		We hear the music, not the words they sing.

	Hepsie returned to Nauvoo with a heavy
heart concerning the future of Harold’s rela-
tives.  She felt however that she had dis-
charged her duty, and given them the benefit
of her testimony; and a strong one it was, and
her conscience was clear what ever might trans-
pire in the future, even were Harold to return,
she had left a message with his brother, that
would touch his heart, if he had a spark of
true affection left therein, for he knew how
great a sacrifice she had made in leaving her
home, knew all her aspirations, all her ex-
pectations, and how willing she had been to
endure toil and hardship with him for the
sake of the Gospel, all this Oney would re-
peat to Harold should he ever return.
	The few days that were left Hepsie, after her
return to make final preparations for the
journey into the wilderness (as it was termed)
were very busy  ones; and in fact she did not
give a decided answer to those with whom she
was going, until the night before leaving the
City.  A great mental struggle was going on
in Hepsie’s mind, notwithstanding her outward
composure. Her farewell to her mother was
a terrible ordeal, and yet she went through it
with apparent calmness.  No one ever knew
but herself, what the effort cost her.  Her
mother must not know, she said over and over
to herself.	
	Even after Hephzibah had left Nauvoo, and
had as she supposed, met all the opposition
that could be brought to bear against the
course she was taking, there was still one more
effort made to induce her to remain within the
borders of civilization.
	It is well understood by those acquainted
with Mormon history, that at the time of the
exodus from Nauvoo, the company took away
with them, what was known as the famous
Nauvoo brass band under the direction of
Capt.  Wm.  Pitt. The music of the band
helped to cheer the saints upon their journey,
and while encamped on Sugar Creek dispelled
the first dark hours of gloom that hung over
the saints, who had just left their homes,
orchards, gardens and worldly possessions to
go into a new and uncivilized region, not
knowing what was to befall them, only to trust
in One, whose power is above all earthly power;
and with unswerving faith the leaders of the
Church took upon themselves the task of
searching for a resting place for their people.
	While in Iowa the citizens of Farmington
who knew of their journeyings, (and many of
them had been Mormons and apostatized) sent
for the brass band to come over and give them
some music; it was well known that Pitts’ was
the best band anywhere in the vicinity; and
the Farmington folks were very glad of this
opportunity to have a concert. Accordingly
the band and some of the young people who
were singers consented to this arrangement.
The occasion was quite a jovial one consider-
ing all the peculiarities of the circumstances.
	Hephzibah was one of the invited guests,
and as she realized it was perhaps the last time
she would have an opportunity of participat-
ng in an entertainment of the kind for a long


[column 1]
time to come, she consented to make one of the
party.  She was not prepared however for what
followed. She had forgotten all about the
Sw—y's and their going over  to Farmington
to settle, and was utterly surprised when during
the afternoon one of them came up to her un-
awares, and in a voice that seemed familiar
accosted her with, “Say, Mrs. Harvey how
came you here with these wandering Pilgrims?
We had never heard a word of you since we
left Nauvoo just before that Christmas, and we
all thought you had gone back East to your
own folks by this time, say, where have you
been and why didn’t you write? We’ve talked
a heap about you, Charlie has never got over
leaving you there, nor none of us for that
matter.”
	Hepsie was so astonished and overwhelmed
that she could scarcely reply at all, but she
managed to tell him she was on her way to the
great Western wilderness with the company of
the Saints, and that she had perfect faith in
the enterprise, and should not falter whatever
might come.
	The young man who was no other than one
of Harold’s former partners in business, urged
and entreated Hepsie with all the persuasive
eloquence he possessed to stay there, “You’ll
die of the perils and hardships by the way-
side, and it will be your own fault, you could
teach here and get a splendid salary, stay
with us, mother would be so pleased to have
you once more, she never tires of praising you,
talks of your wonderful memory, your patience
and forbearance, and your utter helplessness,
though so young, yet so enthusiastic in religion,
that you would not listen to those who were
older and wiser.  Why mother says your read-
ing was like poetry, and your songs so full of
sympathy that tears were the only expression
of her appreciation. O, Mrs. Harvey do stay
with us I offer you everything, my home, my
heart, I shall never love any body as I love
you, never, tho' I never dared to say so even 
to myself, because you were the wife of my
friend, but believe me I love you as I never can
love again.”
	With all Hepsie's experience and her theories
on the subject of love, this was too much for
her, she was so embarrassed that she could not
reply, her cheeks seemed all aflame, her lips
were dry and tongue parched, she felt as if she
was going to faint, but tears came to her re-
lief, and were more potent than any mere
words could have been. “O, I see  said
Hezekiah you cannot forget Harold, he was good
and noble and your ideal, but I feel sure he is
dead, we never hear from him; why do you go
away with this great sorrow in your heart?"
	By this time Hepsie had regained her
voice and thanking the young man for his
kindness of heart and telling him to marry
some one, who could give him her whole heart
and undivided affection, she tried to break off
the conversation, but he persistently refused to go
and added, “Mrs. Harvey if you ever want a
friend, if you should grow tired of a wanderer’s
life, let me know, there are three of us and we
would each one of us be willing to leave all
else for you.” This was Hepsie's moment and
she improved it,—"would you give up all else
and come back to the faith and travel with the
Saints into the wilderness for my sake?” Well,
no, not that Mrs Harvey that could not be,
we have renounced Mormonism you know, we
could not go back to that."
	"Well that proves that your love is selfish 
shallow and not genuine.  Love does not stop
for sacrifices, it suromunts every obstacle, it is
self-denying.  We must part, I shall go back
to the Camp tonight, and tomorrow we shall
pursue our journey Westward, what awaits me
I know not, but my faith in the future of my
people is unshaken, heaven help those, who
doubt and faint by the wayside.”
	And now dear patient reader we must bring
[column 2]
this story to a close, it is a true one, and there-
fore you cannot expect it to end with the same
sort of glowing highly colored denouement as 
a sensational novel, but if you have followed
the principal character in the story, and taken
in all the details and episodes, you will have
startling facts enough with a vivid imagina-
tion to conjecture a sequel equal to that of many
of the romances of modern times, and this the
writer will leave each of you to follow out,
his or her own inclinations in the matter, and
settle Hephzibah's future as you may think
proper to decide from the testimony given.
	There are one or two main points that
should be stated in the closing chapter, as they
really relate to the moral of the story itself.
After Hepsie parted with her mother to come
across the Mississippi—she never did see her
again she died of the hardships when the
Saints were driven out of Nauvoo in the sum-
mer of 1846, and was laid in an unknown grave
by the wayside, which fulfilled Mrs. Hathaway’s
words and affirmed the presentiment. Harold
never returned but died at sea and was buried in
the ocean, according to his brother's presenti-
ment, and the fore-shadowing of Hephzibah
when a child.  His parents never returned to
the Church and his brother died very young,
no doubt Hepsie thought, because it was im-
possible with his disposition to rise above the
opposition he had to contend with; he sank into
a sort of melancholy and went into a decline.
He was a beautiful character but lacked the
strong elements necessary to battle with un-
pleasant surroundings.
	The school-mates of Hepsie for whom she
had such a strong attachment early in life did
not all marry Ministers, or Doctors, or Lawyers
or men with high sounding titles, as they had
declared they would, in fact two or three of
them still live in single blessedness to this
day, and visit among their cousins and rela-
tives, and are very sedate and proper.  Jane
the Esquire’s daughter, plain and unpreten-
tious as she was married a rich man, “away
down in Maine,” who afterwards figured con-
spicuously in politics at home and finally went
as Senator from his State to Congress.  Miss
Fay whose Christian name was Mehitable as
Hepsie once explained to her sister Hannah,
and who dubbed Hepsie as “the girl in panta-
lettes,” failed to secure the one she loved
and married in haste to repent at leisure, and
instead of wealth and position, she was obliged
to earn her own living and adopted the stage
as a profession.  Lucy (Reynold’s) Mrs. Adams
and her husband kept the faith, and though
they did not leave Nauvoo with the first
company they were among the first to locate
in the valley of the Great Salt Lake and lived
and died true to the principles they had em-
braced in their youth.
	The young college graduates in whom
Hepsie and Lucy took such an interest, both
apostatized before the Saints left Nauvoo, and
went back East one to practise law and the
other medicine.
	Many of the incidents written here proved
prophetic, and there are those living who
could testify to the same, but as we are not
dealing specially with this matter we leave it
to the intuition of the reader.  That there is
a Providence that over-rules and controls our
destinies is an undeniable fact, and yet we are
left our free-agency paradoxical as it may
seem.  It is not predestination, but it is the
guiding power of Him who holds the destinies
of men and of nations, that we can rely upon,
if we put ourselves in the position to obtain
His favor and support.  He leaves us free to
choose the good and refuse the evil,if we will;
add He knows how to bring us nearer to Him
by chastening and through fiery trials, and
yet He will not forsake us but will be our
ever-present help in time of need. The most
beautiful characters are those that have been
[column 3]
purified through suffering and have borne it
patiently.
		"For gold must be tried by fire
		And a heart must be tried by pain."
	The lessons that Hephzibah learned out of
the schools were very difficult, but they were a
much higher grade than those taught in the
halls of learning.  She had talked largely of
love while very young, and she had sipped
a little at the spring she had thought over-
flowing with the precious draught, just enough
to taste its sweetness, but behold it had turned
to bitterness afterwards, and even the cup from
which she drank was tarnished, and so she
cast it aside that her lips might not be
cankered, and it is not strange if after such
bitter experiences in her search for a pure and
enduring love, she was wise enough to know
the true metal from the glittering and showy
enameled tinsel, and to be able to choose wisely
in her riper years, and to teach some vital
truths to those who had not the same oppor-
tunities of gaining wisdom, or of knowing how
near the false can imitate the true by having
had so striking a contrast.  Having known
the bitter Hepsie ought certainly to have drank
freely of life's sweetness, but alas, how often are
the bitter and the sweet strangely commingled.


