							ELLEN JAKEMAN.


[column 1]
			﻿CLARA BARTON.
	In military circles throughout the world, Clara
Barton is the best known of American women.
A daughter of Massachusetts, a noble repre-
sentative of the so-called "superfluous women"
of the commonwealth, her life record is one of
patriotic service.
	To Miss Barton belongs the credit of having
assisted in organizing the public school system 
of New Jersey.  She organized a public school
at Bordentown, N.  J.  She began with six
 cholars in a dilapidated old house with capacity
sor twenty, and at the year's end had 600

[column 2]
pupils in a fine brick building, newly erected
for her at a cost of $4,000.
	Her health failing, she went to Washington
City to recuperate, the climate there being 
favorable for her recovery.  About 1854
Judge Mason, Commissioner of Patents, offered
her a clerkship in his office, because she could
be trusted to keep the secrets of the office, and
not sell them, to the injury of applicants for
patents, as some of his men clerks had done.
She was the first woman to be regularly
employed as a clerk in any of the departments
at Washington, and great was the consterna-
tion among the government employees when
her name went on the pay roll.
	Miss Barton was the only woman who
served through the Civil War with neither
pay nor commission, first going back and forth
on the Potomac boats, taking the men as they 
come from the battle-field with blood and mud
dried upon their persons, and getting them
ready for the hospitals, and afterwards doing
a similar service in the camps.  On Morris
Island, during the siege of Fort Wagner,  she
was the only woman, and she stayed at her
post until bad water and exposure made her
dangerously ill.  Military records and the
memories of veterans are full of her acts of
kindness, in caring in woman fashion for the
sick and wounded- She was Gen.  Butler's
famous "Lady in charge of the hospitals at the
front," in 1864.  The next year she went to
Andersonville to identify and mark the graves
of Union soldiers.  In all these offices she
showed unusual executive ability and undaunt-
ed courage, tempered by the gentleness of a
loving, compassionate and refined woman.
	In 1870 she engaged in her splendid work
in the Franco-German War, and all the nations
of Europe rang with her praises and did her
honor.  The Grand Duchess of Baden, herself
a great philanthropist,  made her chief assist-
ant in the preparation of the military hospitals.
Here she first became acquainted with the
work of the Red Cross Society, and at once
united in it.
	Miss Barton came back to her native land 
and organized the Red Cross Society of
America, and was, very deservedly, made its
president. By a treaty of nations, her society
as well as the European original, is recognized,
and its agents are exempted from the restric-
tions placed upon travel, and in time of war
from most of the regulations concerning
communication between hostile camps.
	In 1883 Gov. B. F. Butler appointed Miss
Barton Superintendent of the Reformatory 
Prison at Sherborn Mass., giving her full
control and accepting her as her own bonds-
woman.  Miss Barton accepted this position
reluctantly, and in response to the entreaty of
Gov.  Butler and of many philanthropists that
she should aid that noble work in a time of
emergency and trial.  So satisfactory was
her administration that the Legislature re-
commended that the offices of treasurer and
steward, which had always been filled by men,
should be merged into that of the superintendent,
and that Miss Barton be appointed to fill the
triple office;
	In 1884 Clara Barton and her society were
given charge of relieving the sufferers by the
Ohio and Mississippi floods;  She was sent as a
delegate to the International Peace Congress
held at Geneva in the same year.  The United
States paid her the distinguished honor of
requesting her to write the "History of the
Red Cross Society," with which she complied,
and it was printed by order of Congress.  After
the great fires in Michigan, the cyclones in
Texas, the Charleston earthquake, and the
awful calamity at Johnstown, Clara Barton
and the sisterhood of the Red Cross were
earliest at the scenes of distress, and unhesitat-
ingly the people put themselves under their
administrative generalship.

[column 3]
	Wherever flame or flood or pestilence bring
death and disaster to American homes, Clara
Barton plants the banner of the Red
Cross.
	The life of this plain, simple unpretentious
and self-sacrificing woman is one of the
grandest monuments to charity and merciful
kindness the world has witnessed. She will
pass away, but the work and example of such
a life will never depart from among the races of 
men.
	Sumner once wrote of Clara Barton: “She
has the talent of a statesman, the command of
a general, and the heart and hand of a 
woman.
					Woman's Journal.
	Boston.


