HOW WE SPENT OUR TIME.

	Accepting an invitation from Sister Anna
K. Smoot, Pres. of the Primary Associations of
Utah Stake, Counselor Lillie Freeze accom-
panied by Stake Assist. Mrs. Jane Freeze of
the Y. L. Association of Salt Lake Stake, left
on the early morning train of Aug. 25th and
were met at Pleasant Grove by the combined
Presidency of the R. S., Y. L., and P. A.,
Ass’n, of Utah Stake who had planned a visit
through the northern settlements on a tour of
inspection and encouragement to the sisters
and children laboring in these organizations.
	At Pleasant Grove the Primary met at
10 a. m. with a large attendance of over 130
members, as is usually the case, the girls
largely predominating. The programme was
well rendered throughout. At 2 p. m. a meet-
ing of the R. S. and Y. L. convened at which
appropriate and spirited addresses were given
by Pres. Anna K. Smoot, Pres. Mary John
Pres. Zina Lyon, the two visitors from Salt
Lake and others, many points particularIy in-
teresting to women were dwelt upon and an
excellent spirit prevailed.
	Tuesday, 26th we entered the charming
little retreat of Alpine, never shall we forget
the scene of rural beauty that burst upon our
vision as we rounded the hill leading into the
pretty village nestled at the foot of the mighty
granite hills.
	We met with the Primary at 10 a. m., here
while the girls led in numbers the boys were
very well represented and showed marked in-
terest, everything on the programme was per-
formed to the credit of teachers and children.
	At 2 o’clock, a meeting of the R. S. was
held, at which much encouragement was given
to the ceaseless toilers “our mothers.”
	Part of the company went to Lehi that
night and an evening meeting was held in the
interest of the Y. L. a good attendance of
bright, intelligent, earnest girls showed that
they were still alive to their duties though
laboring under disadvantages. Pres. Lyon
Mrs. Jane and Lillie Freeze addressed the
girls on various topics of interest to themselves.
	And at sunrise on the morning of the 27th,
we reluctantly left the beauty, melody, sun-
shine, the sublime influence of peace which
hangs as a mantle over this little village.
	At American Fork, we waited three hours
and a half for a delayed train which debarred
us from the enjoyment of hearing the exercises
of the children at Lehi, but as we arrived at
the meeting house, just at the close of the
meeting some of the singing was repeated
proving the excellent talent of the children;
we were pleased to learn that a number of
boys took part in the programme. Pres.
Smoot and the other visitors assured us that
the meeting was a success.
	A lively meeting of the sisters held in the
afternoon showed that they were alive to their
duties as saints, progressive in spirit and un-
daunted in their labors for the improvement of
their associations.
	That night we attended an exceedingly in
teresting meeting of the district officers f


[column 1]
American Fork, and at 10 a. m., on Thursday
the general Stake Officers meeting of the P.
A. convened.  This is a grand arrangement
and it was a most enjoyable sight to behold the
Officers from every town and hamlet number-
ing upwards of 150, greeting each other with
such joyful faces, warm hand-clasps and earnest
expressions of mutual love and good fellow-
ship, many of whom no doubt, had not met
since the Conference 6 months previous.  Here
short, concise verbal reports were given from
 the various branches, each telling of the
different methods adopted for enhancing the
interest of the meetings, the most successful
management of the association, etc. All the
business pertaining to the Stake organization
was here transacted and much good counsel
given for future guidance, by Pres. Smoot
whose good generalship, executive ability,
fine tact as organizer and Pres.  is shown to
the best advantage—here is generated the
power which moves so successfully the 
mammoth organization embracing nearly 4,000
children.  Pres. Smoot seems to understand
how to get the best and most work done cheer-
fully by the intelligent corps of officers over
whom she presides.
	At noon, all present were invited to par-
take of an elaborate picnic spread in the Court
house with fruit and flowers in profusion,
where the guests were gracefully waited upon
by a brigade of dainty white capped bright-
eyed girls.  These picnics are an established
feature of each conference given by the As-
sociations of the town where the conference is
held, and as they are always held in Provo
during the winter and changed each summer
to a different town—they are looked forward 
to with mingled anxiety and delight and much
preparatory work is done to make each event
a grand success.  At the one in question held
at 2 p.m., the house was filled with parents and
children, the Bishopric of the ward, and
Superintendent of the Sunday School.  Every
item was pre-arranged, preventing any delay so
tiring to children.  Programmes were written
and distributed among the congregation, every 
part rendered promptly, one noticable and
gratifying feature was the large number of
boys who took part, about 35 in all, doing
themselves great credit; 12 boys recited the
"Articles of faith" in concert in perfect har-
mony, the singing was most delightful by
many, very little girls and showed much care-
ful training.  Time and space will not permit
us to mention half of the many things that
pleased us.
	The children have donated to the nickle
fund over 70 dollars which is used exclusively
for emigration; two persons have been brought
from Europe and the money is again ready
to loan without interest.  The liberation of
one soul from bondage is deemed sufficient
interest on the cash.  The Stake is divided
into seven districts presided over by the
usual Officers who hold regular monthly busi-
ness meetings and keep account of all proceed-
ings.  The Stake Pres. accepts reports from the
presidency of each district semi-anually, thus
the labors are divided among many and
much energetic work is performed.  Every 
Association is visited once a year by Pres.
Smoot and Counselors, who also attend district
Conferences at intervals between each semi-
anual Conference.
	A flying visit to Springville for a peep at
our friends a return to Provo to attend the
Woman's Suffrage Meeting and the Young
Ladies semi annual Conference at which we
trust profitable meetings were held blessed and
encouraged by the wise and motherly counsels
of Pres. Elmina S. Taylor whose labors and
interests among the daughters of Zion are
indefatigable, ended our labors in Utah
Stake where "Welcome" shone in every face
and was felt in the warm grasp of every hand,
[column 2]
and was evident in the very hospitable enter-
tainment accorded us everywhere.  We
brought away many plesant memories and
stopped over on our return at South Cotton-
wood to attend the Mammoth Sunday School
reunion held there Sunday 31st in which 4
wards participated occupying the whole day
with two excellent programmes.  A drive to
Mill Creek, Wed. Sept. 3rd to join the visit-
ing sisters who came out to attend the Young
Ladies annual meeting of that ward where an
enjoyable time was spent in two well attended
well spirited meetings, a delightful picnic at
noon and we wended our way homeward feel-
ing much improved physically and with the
firm conviction that a more enjoyable time
was never experienced.
