Sariah Jane Starr Alleman
In Kent County, England, at the time when a small group of men and women were setting about the business of reforming the Church of England, Dr. Comfort Starr, a well-to-do doctor, became stirred with their fervor and sailed for the new world. He settled in the Plymouth Colony. Years later, his descendants, who still carried his adventurous spirit, moved westward. Sariah Jane Starr was born at Quincy, Illinois, on January 8, 1844, in the days when the young "Mormon" Church was fighting for its right to exist. Six years later Sariah's parents came to Utah by way of ox team.
From Salt Lake the Starr family moved to Springville, even then a green spot in the sagebrush wilderness. They thought, perhaps, to spend the rest of their days close to the verdant mountains and the blue lake, but at October conference, Brigham Young, who had a way of surprising people, called upon the family to settle in St. George, where strong and skilled men were needed.
Sariah Jane, who was seventeen and a woman grown, did not go with them on this shorter journey. There was in Springville at this time a young man by the name of Benjamin Alleman. He had been born in Pennsylvania some nine years earlier than the girl, and had found his way to Springville in 1852. He felt that Sariah Jane should remain in the more settled districts, and on March 24, 1861, they were married.
After her marriage Sariah was left much alone. Down in St. George her father was assisting in the building of the temple. Every year he either came with or sent his wife and daughters to visit at Springville. One of the earliest recollections of the Alleman children is watching the southern road with their mother, who strained her eyes for the red dust clouds of the wagons, journeying from southern Utah.
Five sons and two daughters were born to Sariah Jane and Benjamin. The parents wanted them all to be educated. "We can't give them wealth," Sariah said, "but an education is something that can't be taken from them." But education was a hard problem in those days when people walked miles to borrow a book. Sariah made butter, delivering the fresh yellow pats herself, raised vegetables in the fertile Springville soil and sold them to less provident neighbors. Then she spent hours in the arduous task of weaving carpets so that money could be garnered.
As strenuously as she worked, she did not neglect her home. Her house was immaculate and there were always good things to eat on the Alleman table when other housewives, less resourceful, bewailed the scarcity and sameness of food. It was a common thing for the Relief Society teachers (and others with a lesser excuse) to call upon Sister Alleman about meal time. Sariah, herself a Relief Society teacher, looked forward to the sisters' visits and concocted recipes in order to delight them with new dishes. She had to be her own woman's page and cook book.
She was a tall, handsome woman, with spirited brown eyes and a quick temper which she learned to control. Superstition had no place in her scheme of life, but when she was "impressed" to do a thing, she always found it wisest to go ahead. It is easy to believe that her husband had considerable respect for her first impressions. When he acted on them, he was certain to make a success of his venture.
In her the eternal Eve was not killed by the rigors of pioneer life. She loved pretty clothes, and since she could make them herself, she could not be accused of extravagance in owning them. Her children remember her, ready for church, dressed in her best silk and carrying a black silk-ruffled parasol, lined with white, and over her arm her treasured paisley shawl. When she was only forty, she wore little black bonnets. Women matured young in her day, and while they worked with the vigor of youth, they accepted old age before today's woman will give in to middle years.
Even as she loved to entertain people, she loved to be entertained. It must have been a trial to her who liked to dance, that her husband cared nothing for the pastime. But no woman was ever left on the sidelines in Utah's earlier days and Sariah was not seriously handicapped by Benjamin's non-indulgence. She loved the theatre, too, and played in the town dramatics when she could find time to take a part. It would have been pleasant to know what dramas she liked best and what parts she cared to enact, but no record was kept of them by her or her children.
She was a great reader, sometimes forgetting that the butter must be churned when there was a new book to be had. And she took much pleasure in church going. Her beliefs had been shaped during the days when men and women suffered privations and endangered their lives for religion's sake, and she did not question the tenets she had accepted from birth. With her she carried the serenity that comes of undoubting faith. It was a great source of satisfaction to her that one son filled a mission to Samoa and that another became a school teacher.
She died in 1905, just two years after her husband's death. If we do not remember the drama of pioneer life, her days in the recounting seem quiet and untouched by adventure. But in her childhood she knew hardships as an every day occurrence. Danger that would today change the whole current of our lives, she accepted as part of routine. She fought a winning fight against the elemental moods of nature, and out of a patch of barren earth she helped to make a harmonious home and to rear children whose names are honored throughout the Church. It was part of her compensation that her path was the tranquil one of those who are certain of God's love.