Christina Olson Stramberg
MY mother, Christina Olson Stramberg, was born in Sallero, Dalarne, Sweden, January 10, 1861. Her parents were Lutheran, and her father, especially, was of a very religious nature. When nine years old she went to live with a good religious couple, who had no children of their own and there she learned to sing songs of praise to God and to pray for his guidance, and from that time on, continued to ask him to lead her to the right, that she might find her way back to his presence. As she grew older, there was always a longing to find the truth, and she tried the different religious denominations existing at that time, and was baptized into the Baptist Church. But she was not satisfied.
SHE was married and had several children when one day as she was looking for something in the attic of her mother's home she found a book entitled "Evangeliets Sanna Grundsatser"* that proved to be a very interesting treaty on gospel doctrine never before heard or seen by her in just that way. It was clearer and easier to comprehend. The book that proved to be a ray of light, leading to this glorious gospel of ours, had been left by one of our missionaries with some family in the community. It had been given to one of her brothers but as it was not interesting to him, it was put up in the attic, where years after she found it.
AFTER faith and prayer and studying and waiting, one wonderful morning in April 1895, an opening was made in the ice on Lake Siljan and my parents went into the waters of baptism and became members of the Church of Jesus Christ. Her prayers were answered and she had found the way which would lead her back to God.
IN the winter following their joining the Church, there were trials and sickness. My father had pneumonia, and also one of the children, and when they had recovered, mother herself came down with the disease. They had an abundance of faith, and their prayers were offered as to someone very near and whom they knew would help. But she was very sick and it seemed there was no help, and so one night her parents came to bid her, as they thought, a last farewell. She seemed to sink lower and lower and about midnight when my father leaned down to her she whispered that her feet were cold and everything seemed to stop. He felt of her feet and they were cold almost to her knees. She was apparently dying. I remember how he then came rushing out in the kitchen, where we were crying, and got some hot water to her feet, and during that time, how he leaned against our cupboard and cried like his heart was breaking. As soon as he had put the heat to her feet, he leaned over her, thinking that he would soon be left alone with the children, and his grief was heartbreaking, for there was always a wonderful love between my parents, that lasted through this life, and will go on forever. As he came close enough to catch her whisper, he heard her say: "If you will go and pray once more I think the Lord will let me stay." There was a lady friend of mothers sitting by the bed but she knew nothing of what happened.
THERE was very much snow that winter and as father went to pray, he knelt down in the snow outside the same wall on the inside of which her bed stood, and there with humbleness of heart he again petitioned the Lord to let her stay.
AS he was praying, she looked down towards the foot of the bed, and a man dressed all in white was coming slowly up to her and she saw that he was holding a bowl in his hand. When he came up to her he took something out of the bowl and gave it to her. She swallowed it and when she looked up again he was gone. When father came in again she said to him that she knew now that she would recover, and she did get well from that very hour.
THERE was no one there that they dared tell this incident to, for fear that it would be made light of, for it was very sacred to them and people there did not believe in spiritual manifestations. But when the missionaries came around on their visits to the Saints they told them that the suit worn by that heavenly visitor, as she described it, was a temple suit, and that someone from beyond the veil had been sent to them in their need to administer to her.
In the year 1909 we came to Utah and in 1913 we went through the Temple. When Mother saw the suits worn by the men she said to me, "that is just the way he was dressed only I thought it was cloth wrapped around his head instead of the cap."
AND so at least fifteen years before that time, in Sweden, on a cold and dark winter night, when her life was despaired of and there seemed to be no hope, the Lord gave her a testimony that this gospel and its ordinances reach beyond this life and into the eternities. Those that have associated with her in the Relief Society work or anywhere else can testify to her love for, and faith in God and his gospel, and now that her earthly body is laid to rest her spirit can go on without being troubled with sickness and distress as it was the last years of her life here, and as she was the only one of her relatives to join the Church her work there must be very great.
"God moves in a mysterious way,
His wonders to perform,
He plants his footsteps in the sea
And rides upon the storm."
*"True Principles of the Gospel."