[Vol28 | April 1941 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Poem | Title: Lula Greene Richards]

APRIL 8, 1941, marks the ninety-second birthday of Lula Greene Richards, first editor of the Woman's Exponent. The Relief Society General Board congratulates Mrs. Richards at this time. It congratulates her that her ninety-second birthday finds her in reasonably good health, able to actively serve the Lord in His Temple; that she enjoys exceptional mental vigor; that she retains and uses her literary gift. The following poem is one of Mrs. Richard's recent literary compositions:

AFTERWHILE
(Acrostic)
Lula Greene Richards

Loved one! While you were with me, day by day,
Ere, summoned, you obedient bravely left,
Venturing upon a new, untried, mysterious way,
I had no thought of being thus bereft.

Wisdom was yours to comfort, lead and guide;
I walked and worked and worshiped at your side,
Loving, beloved, trusting and unafraid,
Learning high laws by which true lives are made.
A contest entered like a stifling dream—
Rigid and stern its bold attacks were laid;
Death posed as victor—Love still reigns supreme.

Realms of eternal light you now behold,
Intelligence not yet with me to share;
Celestial glories to your sight unfold;
Help me to wait and patiently prepare.
Angelic influence over me maintain,
Rouse me from sloth, let error not beguile.
Dearest, our troth—the prize—let us together gain—
Sweet, pure, immortal, after a little while.

"BEHOLD, blessed, saith the Lord, are they who have come up unto this land with an eye single to my glory, according to my commandments.
"For those who live shall inherit the earth, and those that die shall rest from all their labors, and their works shall follow them; and they shall receive a crown in the mansions of my Father, which I have prepared for them.
"Yea, blessed are they whose feet stand upon the land of Zion, who have obeyed my gospel; for they shall receive for their reward the good things of the earth, and it shall bring forth in its strength.
"And they shall also be crowned with blessings from above, yea . . . . they that are faithful and diligent before me."—Doctrine and Covenants 59:1-4)