[Vol28 | April 1941 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Our Kimball]
224  RELIEF    SOCIETY    MAGAZINE— APRIL,    1941 
ciples  the  Church  was  founded  and  CUCH  was  the  beginning  of  the 
developed— the  sovereignty  of  God  ^  Church  as  an  organization.  We 
and  the  free  agency  of  his  children,  might  ask  where,  at  this  time,  are 
Surely  the  modern  world  seems  to  those  stalwart  leaders  who  are  to 
have  largely  forgotten  these  eternal  stand  shoulder  to  shoulder  with  Jo- 
laws,  inherent  truths  holding  power  seph  in  the  trying  years  to  come, 
sufficient  to  save  all  men  and  all  Where  are  Brigham  Young  and  He- 
nations,  ber  C.  Kimball  and  Parley  P.  Pratt? 
On  this  April  day  of  inspiration  Where  are  John  Taylor  and  Wilford 
and  hope,  the  young  Prophet  has  Woodruif  and  Lorenzo  Snow? 
realized  afresh  ''the  source  of  spir-  Brigham  Young,  now  twenty-nine 
itual  knowledge,  and  his  life  and  years  old,  is  married  to  Miriam 
his  life's  work  have  broadened;  but  Works,  and  lives  not  far  from  the 
his  knowledge  will  not  bring  him  Prophet's  home  in  New  York  State, 
peace  in  this  world,  except  that  He  is  practicing  his  profession,  ''car- 
peace  of  the  soul  that  rejoices  even  penter,  joiner,  painter,  glazier."  It  is 
in  the  midst  of  conflict— the  peace  more  than  two  years  before  that  au- 
that  passeth  understanding.  .  .  .  His  tumn  day  when  Brigham  Young  will 
testimony  will  arouse  the  wrath  of  journey  to  Kirtland,  Ohio,  to  meet 
men  .  .  .  derision  will  laugh  at  his  the  Prophet.  Heber  C.  Kimball,  now 
message  to  the  world.  .  .  ."''  twenty-nine  years  old,  lives  in  New 
But  on   this  day,   the  Prophet's  York  State,  where  he  makes  pottery 
heart  is  filled  with  thanksgiving,  and  and   studies    the   teachings    of   the 
he  relates  the  joy  that  came  to  him  Baptist  Church.     He  will  go  with 
when,  that  very  afternoon,  his  fa-  Brigham  Young  to  visit  the  Prophet 
ther  and  mother  and  Orrin  Porter  in  Ohio.  Parley  P.  Pratt,  now  twen- 
Rockwell   and  Martin  Harris  were  ty-three    years    old,    will    join    the 
baptized  and   "were   received  into  Church   in   September,    1830,   and 
the  Church."  from  that  day  forward  he  will  be  one 
A  few  days  from  this  Tuesday,  on  to  define  the  principles  of  Mormon- 
Sunday,  April  11,  Oliver  Cowdery  ism  and  carry  the  message  to  the 
will  preach  the  first  public  address  world. 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  John  Taylor,  this  spring  of  1830, 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  in  the  weeks  has  left  his  home  in  England,  where 
to  come  many  more  will  join  the  he  was  a  Methodist  preacher,  and 
Church.   On  June  9,  1830,  the  first  has  moved  to  Toronto,  Canada.  It 
conference  will  be  held,  and  on  the  ^in  be  six  years  before  he  joins  the 
following  day,  Emma  Smith,  wife  of  Church.     Wilford  Woodruff,  now 
the  Prophet,  will  be  baptized,  as  twenty-three  years  old,  will  not  meet 
well  as  many  others  who  have  heard  the  Prophet  until  1834,  and  Loren- 
and  believed  in  the  words  of  Joseph  ^o  Snow,  now  only  sixteen  years  old, 
and  the  record  that  "speaks  from  ^^^  be  baptized  in  1836. 
^^    ^^  *  Thus,  the  new  Church  grew  rap- 
^Roberts,  Comprehensive  History  of  the  i^ly  and  attracted  to  its  membership 
Church,  Vol.  I,  p.  58.  brave    and    courageous    men    and