Guide Lessons for January
LESSON I (First Week in January)
THE NEW COURSE
A number of appeals have been made from the field to have the course of study begin after the summer vacation. As a result the executive committee took the matter under advisement and decided to outline a course for six months beginning in January and ending in June, the course for the following year to begin in October when work resumes after the summer vacation. The three courses presented will be: first, one in practical religion; secondly, one in modern drama and, thirdly, a continuation of the lessons in social service. The course in practical religion will consist of lessons on the following subjects: conscience, purity, honesty, temperance, industry, loyalty. The course in literature will consist of six modern plays, each emphasizing a social problem of a nature that we trust will be interesting to Relief Society members. These dramas are: Nowadays, by George Middleton; The Devil's Disciple, by George Bernard Shaw; He and She, by Rachel Crothers; What Every Woman Knows, by James Matthew Barrie; Joseph and His Brethren, by Louis N. Parker; and The Doll's House, by Henrik Ibsen. The social service lessons, which during the past year have been devoted to a course in child-study, will resume lessons on the same subject. The books containing the dramas will be for sale at the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. A price list will be published by the magazine, as soon as the books are received by the Deseret Book Company.
EVERY DAY ETHICS AND PRACTICAL RELIGION AND TESTIMONY
A series of six lessons will be presented under this title. The major objective of the lessons as a whole is to increase an interest in a thoughtful search for the right, in a judicious choice of the right, and in acting right for the love of right itself as well as for the love of others and ourselves. At the same time we shall keep in view the fact that as the mariner's compass must constantly be adjusted by observa-