The Early American Coverlets
By Lutie H. Fryer Assistant Professor—Home Economics Department—U. of U.
AS all things early-American increase in popularity the coverlet of our grandmother comes back into its own. A large majority of American families cherish at least one such heirloom woven either for or by an industrious ancestor. Far greater than mere family or antiquarian interest, however, is the genuine beauty of these masterpieces of textile art. The things made by our forefathers and their neighbors show how they lived and vivify their times. The impulse to know our past gives rise to the general interest in early American textiles. Historical societies and many private collectors are devoting themselves to finding and preserving the work and names of many kinds of early American craftsmen, and foremost among them are the coverlets and the coverlet weavers.
Much has been discovered about these weavers and their work. We know that hand-woven coverlets as coverings for beds were a part of the household furniture of our forefathers in America from the earliest days down to about the time of the Civil War. In the great houses of the South the mistress of the mansion superintended the weaving of coverlets; likewise, in the smaller homes of the North and West, each woman did her own weaving. As a spontaneous expression of beauty the coverlet is to America what the rug is to the Orient. In fact, Oriental rugs and American coverlets have more in common than their folk origin. The eight pointed star and the pine tree borders, so common in Colonial coverlets, are to be seen in rugs from the East. The original symbolism of design has been forgotten, but it is interesting to note that our pine tree is very much like the Egyptian Dibu, a pillar of the sky, emblem of Osiris and of the eternal duration of the dead. The Colonial weavers used traditional designs brought from their homelands, but the question of their origin of design and ornament is ever a puzzling problem for the wise.
The Colonial coverlets are works of art. "Art is the wine of life," says Richter, and the hand-woven coverlets tell us that the humblest artisan who kneels at the shrine of Beauty receives his share of that priceless draught. Thoreau says that the value of a thing is determined by the amount of life that goes into it. If pioneer mothers valued their work according to Thoreau's standards, only a queen or millionaire could possess such an art treasure, for almost a year of a woman's life went into the making of a coverlet. The passing years leave us many legacies, but every generation casts aside old customs, old ways of thought, old faiths and old ideals, as the tree casts aside its withered leafage, and in the hurried march of the years it may happen that something of real value will be purposely thrown away or carelessly left by the wayside. Now and then we should turn from the clamorous present and go back in thought to that quiet past where the roots of our being lie. One of the Half-way Houses on the road might be called "At the Sign of the Old Coverlet," and by pausing here we may recover certain lost things unknown to us or unremembered, but well deserving both knowledge and remembering.
THE art of weaving had its beginning in prehistoric days. In Greece nine hundred B. C. the art was highly developed because Homer tells us that Isis finds Helen, the goddess, "in her palace at her loom" weaving into "a golden web" the story of the Trojan wars; and he clothes Ulysses in "a robe of military purple" into which Penelope had woven a hunting scene. "In the rich woof a hound, Mosaic drawn, Bore on, full-stretch, and seized a daffled fawn." Egyptian hieroglyphics show the goddess Isis with a shuttle in her hands. China made textile fabrics, twenty-five hundred years before Christ. The weaver's art was born westward from Egypt and China in the march of civilization. Italy was the first European country to weave cotton and wool. Flanders led the world in the manufacture of woolen goods and later introduced wool-weaving into England. Early in the seventeenth century the Puritans brought the art to America, along with their ideals of civil and religious liberty. When the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes drove the Protestants from France, they carried their knowledge of textile art into the southern part of the New World, and from Massachusetts to South Carolina the sound of the spinning wheel and the loom was mingled with psalms of thanksgiving for the right to worship God according to the dictates of one's conscience. As the tides of emigrants went westward over the Alleghanies and later beyond the Rocky Mountains, the spinning wheel and hand loom were a part of every household. Coverlets were in common use in most places. In earlier days a linen thread was used for warp, which tells us that flax had to be grown, hackled and spun. Later the coverlet was made of cotton warp overshot with wool. These materials, too, were home products. The cotton had to be picked, carded and spun. The sheep must be sheared and the wool washed, carded and spun into yarn. Those early weavers also dug roots, collected plants and the barks of different trees, and made dyes, according to ancestral methods. When all the drudgery was finished, the weaver seated herself at the loom. Her weariness fell from her like a garment; she became an artist, breathing the divine air of that region where beautiful things are created, while weaving a fabric that would last to the fourth and fifth generation. She finally christened her work at the fountain of fancy with a name that sounded like a song or a poem.
A STUDY of the names of coverlet patterns reveals the full depth of magic that a name can hold. Here are a few poetic names: "Flower of the Mountain," "Rose in the Wilderness," "Rose of the Valley," "Lily of the West," "Path of the Sunbeam." Some names were more prosaic: such as, "Log Cabin," "Bricks and Blocks," "Bird's Eye," "Cross Roads," "Hail Storm." Here are a few names celestial: "Rising Sun," "Morning Star," "Ocean Wave," "Star of the East." A few of the historical names are of interest: "Washington's Victory," "Jackson's Army," "Lee's Surrender," etc. The drama of yarn preparation and weaving of coverlets was enacted by most of the pioneer communities of America. They are still woven by hand in the Southern mountains where they are called "kivers." Many families moving to the far West took their bedding with them, even though their beds and other heavy furniture were left behind. So one may find coverlets in regions that were not settled until long after the machine-made ones were in such general use. Two hundred and twenty-seven years after the Pilgrim families landed at Plymouth Rock, a band of pioneers wended their way into the Salt Lake Valley. Here, also, the hum of spinning wheel and loom was mingled with psalms of thanksgiving for the right to worship God according to the dictates of one's own conscience.
Where, reader, is your family coverlet? In a dusty garret corner perhaps, or buried from sight in the basement. Wherever it is, go bring it out into the sunshine. Spread it out and enjoy its design for it was born in the same ethereal region where Praxiteles first saw his statues and where Shelley heard his "Ode to the Skylark." If your imaginative faculties are not wasted away, this old bed-cover ought to bring you face to face with your grandmother, as worthy a person as any whose names appear on the social register. If your coverlet has known neglect and ill usage, clean it and restore it to its original beauty, for when time is permitted to destroy a coverlet a form of beauty perishes that makes the world poorer evermore. A certain peculiar, majestic quality of beauty and an irresistible appeal will always keep these old coverlets from passing into the musty realm of the obsolete.
THE secrets of color are as fascinating as the names of designs. The green leaves and greyed barks of trees, the golden yellow of daffodils and marigolds and the maple and oak leaves that bedeck the autumn hills all contain the color of sunshine that may be distilled from their juices; and when we know that here it was that the handmade coverlet came by its splendor of hue, the gardens, fields, forests and canyons will mean more to us than ever before. The association of hand-woven coverlets with pioneer life tells us that they are akin to simple homes. They do not go well with gilding or costly inlays, brocades and fine porcelain. Elegance and sophistication put them out of countenance. Their home-spun textures need woods that are giltless and free from varnish. Their beauty of color and design show to greatest advantage against plain walls. They form a symphony with simple, sturdy furniture made from native woods. A bedroom with an old, low-poster, chest of drawers, and table of maple or cherry rubbed to a soft finish with perhaps some painted and stenciled chairs and a blue rug will form a perfect setting for a blue and white coverlet. Those of rich reds, greens and yellows will look best with a darker wood such as walnut or chestnut. Old coverlets, however, do not demand old furniture. They go surprisingly well with modern pieces that are not ornate and with a plain rug. A boy's room with neutral colored walls and dull surfaced woodwork and furniture will take a coverlet with admirable effect. When hung on the wall of a room, or in a hall, you will find that home-dyed, home-woven fabric will be "the cynosure of every eye." The walls may be hung with masterpieces in oil and the floors carpeted with oriental rugs, but the coverlet, though worn and faded, will hold its own in the midst of all this magnificence, because the hand that made it was guided by the soul of an artist. Too often the fabrics used in decorating our homes tell the story that ours is the joy of the careless buyer while the weaver of a coverlet knew the joy of the toiler and creator.
SOME call themselves high-born, if they can trace their ancestry back to some degenerate king. But it is well for us to remember that every family tree has its roots in the life of the common people, and though crowns and princely blood are not found in our pedigree, a hand-woven coverlet may be our genealogical chart, proving that our life came through a woman who was girded with strength and never "ate the bread of idleness". That is noble birth. The names of many of the old weavers are preserved both in family tradition and by their custom of weaving into the corners of at least their first piece their names, the date, and often the town and country or state. There are few articles indeed in the whole range of collectors' interests where authenticity is so well established as these signed and dated coverlets. A link between the present and the past, between you and your grandmother, that is what your coverlet should be to you. Cherish it according to its real worth, and if you are incapable of doing this, let it pass into worthier hands than yours. A wave of wholesome taste is sweeping over the world, and the law that brings to us our own is lifting the hand-woven coverlet out of obscurity and neglect into an atmosphere of loving appreciation.