3. Why is the use of alcohol so LESSON DEPARTMENT particularly harmful, aside from the bad effects upon the body of the user?
4. Aside from the peculiar personality of alcoholics, show how life circumstances contribute to the habitual use of alcohol.
5. What do you consider is the most serious aspect of the use of tobacco? Do you consider the use of tobacco sinful, and why?
6. Discuss the wisdom of closing the doors of the Church to tobacco users.
7. Show why a good mental outlook is the most important condition for good health.
8. Make a thoughtful survey of your own health habits. Jot down a few ways in which you can improve them.
References for Further Study
1. Crane, G. W. Psychology Applied, pp. 97-104. Chicago: Northwestern Univ. Press, 1932.
2. Fisher, Irving, and Fisk, E. L. How To Live. New York: Funk Wagnalls.
3. Higginson, G. D. Fields of Psychology, pp. 407-416. New York: Henry Holt, 1931.
4. Miles, Walter R. Psychological Factors in Alcoholism. Mental Hygiene, Oct., 1937, Vol. 21, pp. 529-548.
5. Poffenberger, A. T. Applied Psychology. New York: Appleton, 1928.
6. Rhodes, Winifred. A Broken Spirit Drieth Up the Bones. Readers Digest, Feb., 1937, p. 104. (For original article, see The Forum, January, 1937.)
7. Starch, D., et al. Controlling Human Behavior, pp. 222-228. New York: Macmillan, 1936.
Education for Family Life
Family Relationships
Lesson 2
Growth Through Family Relationships By Paul Popenoe, Sc. D. (Director Institute of Family Relations, Los Angeles, Calif.)
GROWTH must be maintained steadily from infancy to old age. Absence of growth is stagnation. Family relationships must be so planned as to provide due opportunities for the growth of each member of the family. No one member of the family should grow at the expense of the others.
I. Parents must not get their opportunities for growth at the expense of their children, as sometimes happens when the latter are neglected or turned over to a servant in order that the mother may "go out" more. In extreme cases, children are even deprived of proper education in order that they may relieve the parents of work which the latter are perfectly well able to do, or to get done otherwise. A commoner form of parasitism is illustrated by the parent who "moves in" on a young couple unnecessarily.
II. Children must not get their opportunities for growth at the expense of their parents. Every parent worth the name is prepared to make sacrifices to promote the welfare of his children, but in the normal case these sacrifices are really to the advantage of all concerned. It is not easy to draw the line between such a normal situation, and the abnormal one in which a parent goes without needed comforts in order, for instance, to give a child a snobbish type of so-called education which will really unfit him for life in the future, while it teaches him to be unappreciative of his parents in the present.
III. One child must not be allowed to grow at the expense of another. A daughter, for instance, is sometimes sacrificed to a son; she is forced to leave school and take a job below her natural level, in order that her brother may get an extravagant or inappropriate education, may travel, or may be aided to set himself up in business. Being thus forced into a blind alley, the girl jeopardizes her own future economically, loses the friends and associates that she ought to have, perhaps drops out of church activities, and spoils her chances of a satisfactory marriage. Sometimes, of course, the shoe is on the other foot: the boys may be sacrificed to allow a daughter with musical or dramatic pretensions to waste time and money as poser and loafer. The rule of "One for all and all for one" must be applied evenly.
Growth is favored by: (1) New experiences. No member of a family should be allowed to get into a rut. A young couple must not "settle down" after marriage. Marriage is a dynamic affair,?a continuous interplay of two continually growing and expanding personalities. Young mothers are most likely to get into a rut, because of their home responsibilities. (2) Fair division of the family income. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE (3) Absence of over-possessive and over-dominant patterns in either partner. The two factors last mentioned will be considered again in Lesson No. 7.
It is well to check up from time to time and make sure that each member of the family is getting due opportunities for growth in: (1) Intelligence. Good books and magazines, association with the world's activities, and contact with superior people,?these priceless things are accessible to everyone, virtually without other expense than a little imagination and enterprise. (2) Physical health. Sunshine, fresh air, water, exercise, sleep, wholesome food, avoidance of dissipation,?these essentials are as vital to the parent himself as to the child. (3) Mental health. This likewise involves continuous growth, and many troubles of daily life are due to the fact that emotional development has not kept pace with intellectual and physical development. A man may be six feet tall, weigh 200 pounds, be considered highly intelligent; yet his emotional life may be about like that of a normal six-months-old baby,?self-centered, recognizing no rights of others, ready to have a tantrum whenever he fails to get his own way. The "baby doll" type of young woman is equally well known; later she becomes a "40-year-old Shirley Temple," and finally a "flapper grandmother." Indeed, failure to grow up emotionally is probably commoner in women, though more offensive in men: a woman who is cute and kittenish may be admired by some people who do not have to live with her, whereas a man who is cute and kittenish will be admired by no one except himself.
This process of growing up emotionally, which is the basis of sound mental hygiene, is so important that a whole lesson (No. 4) will LESSON DEPARTMENT be devoted to one special phase of it. More generally, the child must make progress in three lines: (a) Self-knowledge. The infant knows neither his own capacities nor his own limitations. When he has really grown up he will have a fairly accurate idea of both. (b) Self-control. At the outset, the infant can not even control his own bodily functions. Gradually he brings these under control, learns to make his muscles do what he wants, and more slowly, learns to get his emotions in hand,?to control his temper and his tears. (c) Unselfishness. The infant is 100 per cent selfish. He is concerned solely with the satisfaction of his own needs or the gratification of his own whims, no matter how much everyone around him suffers in the meantime. His parents may be badly in need of sleep, but he will not hesitate to keep them awake all night if he wants a little nourishment, or even merely a little sociability. "He wants what he wants when he wants it." The progress toward altruism, the gradual recognition of the fact that each of us is a part of society and that each of us prospers as others prosper,?all this is an important part of the process of growing up. Parents must provide their young people with the conditions that favor such growth and, in so doing, may well take the opportunity occasionally to give themselves the same chance.
(4) Acceptance of responsibility. This is an absolute prerequisite to successful family life. Many a parent is himself a spoiled child. The child who learns the lesson of responsibility in his parents' home will be able to make a better home of his own, a few years later. Modern city life seems to be unfavorable to the learning of this lesson; but acceptance of responsibility underlies all parenthood, all citizenship, all mental hygiene, and all religion.
(5) Religious growth. Everyone understands that religion is not something to be put on, like a costume, or to be learned, as one might learn to speak Spanish; but that it is a way of living,?which means, a way of growing. Nevertheless, parents often fail in actual practice to take into account some of the implications of this fact. Needless to say, parents will bring up their children with a fundamental faith in God, in the power of prayer, and in other essentials; they will discuss these subjects freely in the home and will help to answer the childish questions and solve the childish doubts as they arise. But they must not be impatient as to details, for the following reasons: (a) The child's religion is naturally childish. It may be on a par with his scale of vocational values, which leads him to be sure that he wants to become a policeman or fireman, an Indian fighter or a pirate chieftain. We are not worried when he outgrows these infantile aspirations. But if his parents have never outgrown their own infantile religious views, if they still unconsciously think of religion as a means of getting a selfish advantage or having their problems solved for them without having to make an effort on their own behalf, then they may be alarmed when the child outgrows them, and mistake his attainment to a religious maturity which they themselves lack, for an apostasy, a falling away from the truth. (b) Since religion is a process of growth, it will do no good, but only harm, to try to force on the child adult patterns for which he is not ready. If a child is just learning to walk, it would be absurd to put him on a bicycle and try to make him go through the motions of riding it through traffic. It is important for him to see others riding bicycles, so that he will be ready to try when his time comes. Similarly it is important to let children see patterns of adult religious behavior around them; but if these are forced on them they will not fit, and are more likely to cause conflict and abandonment later in life. (c) It is not the talk of adults about religion that promotes the child's own growth, so much as the way they live their religion. If a man is truly religious, everything he thinks and feels and says and does partakes of this way of living which he has learned by experience to be the heart of life. That is the sort of atmosphere in which the child can work out a sound scale of values and loyalties.
In short, if a child is given a chance, he will grow to be religious just as if he is given a chance, he will grow to walk, will grow to talk, will grow to love. He gets his chance if he lives in a "growing atmosphere," and if he has continually wider and wider opportunities to experience the realities of the spiritual life for himself. In that case, he will have a religion of his own when he reaches maturity, and he will find that period the richest of his life, religiously. If, on the other hand, he RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE has had no opportunity to grow in this way, but has been started off with someone else's religious experience (that of his parents, for instance) handed to him in a package, he may decide when he reaches mature years that the package does not belong to him; then there will be another complaint of a young person "leaving the church."
Questions and Problems
1. Is a young woman ever justified in giving up marriage in order to take care of her parents?
2. A young mother has three small children and no help in the home. How can she get out enough to have a fair opportunity for social and church activities, recreation, and self-improvement?
3. In a city home, there are relatively few chores for children, such as help the farm boy or girl to grow up and learn to take responsibility. How can the parents of a city child best help in this direction?
4. A recent writer says that one of the habits most favorable to religious growth is that of seeking association with deeply religious persons whether they agree or differ religiously. In what ways would one's own religious growth be likely to be increased by associating with those who differ?
Literature for the Missions
Typical Women of the Church
Lesson 5
Elizabeth Hoagland Cannon A Worthy Descendant of Sturdy Stock
EARLY in the 19th century, a New Jersey youth, Abraham Hoagland, answered the call of the West for new settlers. The West in those days scarcely extended beyond the Mississippi River and was peopled largely by Indians. A group from New Jersey settled in the territory which became the state of Michigan. Such ventures require high courage, muscular strength and strong hearts. Young Abraham possessed these qualities. He was descended from the early Dutch who crossed the seas in 1614 and settled along the Atlantic coast, founders of the states of New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Delaware. He had in his veins the brawn and the courage of those ancestors, also caution and wisdom. At home he left his betrothed, Margaret Quick, a charming girl, who like himself was of Dutch descent. Her family was of equal courage. Abraham promised to return for her in a year should the new country prove as they hoped. This promise he kept, and in a rude cabin in the Michigan clearing these two began their married life. It was here November 3, 1835, Elizabeth was born. She was the third child of a family of six, three sons and three daughters.
Elizabeth grew tall and lithe and fair. She loved nothing more than to join groups of young people to gather hickory nuts or go into the marshes in search of red, crisp cranberries. In the Hoagland home a simple faith in divine guidance prevailed, and here elders of the restored Gospel found a welcome, for here dwelt those known as "the honest in heart." They heard the testimony of the elders and accepted their teachings. Baptism almost immediately followed and soon the family migrated to Nauvoo, the gathering place of the Saints. In Nauvoo Abraham Hoagland became a bishop, a position held with honor all the years of his life. Through the dark days of Nauvoo following the martyrdom of the Prophet the Hoagland family like others endured heroically the hardships and the persecutions. They were among the first to leave in that memorable exodus from Nauvoo and wended their way over the Iowa prairies to the Missouri where Winter Quarters was established for a temporary resting and outfitting post. Elizabeth was at this time eleven years old, large for her age and of great help to her mother in the care of her brothers and sisters. She walked nearly all the way across the plains and helped her father drive the ox teams.
Traveling in the same company as the Hoagland family was George Q. Cannon, a young man of nineteen. A strong friendship was awakened between him and Elizabeth. Years after she would tell of the gatherings around the camp fires at night, of the songs and the dances, of the games they played and the plans they made for a time when the journey would be ended. They arrived in the Salt Lake valley in September, 1847, the first company following the original pioneers. Her father built a log and mud cabin in the "Old Fort" but early moved to his allotted acre and a half on the corner of Second South and First West streets, where he built a more commodious log and adobe house. In days of scarcity when nearly every one lived on rations, Elizabeth proved her resourcefulness by hunting along the banks of the Jordan river for cresses, or weeds and roots, out of which she made a sort of vegetable greens which was palatable and nourishing.
The romance begun on the plains proved to be a real love affair, and the young couple became engaged. But the marriage was delayed four years, due to the prospective groom, George Q. Cannon, being called on a mission to the Hawaiian Islands. During these waiting years Elizabeth taught a school in the Fourteenth Ward and engaged, as other young pioneer maidens, in the many homely domestic arts?drying fruits, soap making, spinning, carding and weaving; also taking part in popular amusements, dances, amateur theatricals, sleigh riding, skating, candy pulls, spelling bees, etc. At length on December 11, 1854, Elizabeth Hoagland became the wife of George Q. Cannon. The marriage occurred very shortly after his return from this long mission. In later and more prosperous years they would relate the simplicity and absence of all outward display of the usual adornment on such occasions, and with much laughter describe the grotesque figure of the bridegroom at the wedding supper in an ill-fitting costume borrowed from friends. Notwithstanding absence of worldly wealth, they were young, strong, industrious and not afraid to face the future whatever it might portend.
Nearly all of the first ten years of their married life were spent in missionary work, sometimes parted, sometimes together. Early in 1855 the young people set out on a mission to California, where George Q. Cannon was to assist Elder Charles C. Rich in the presidency of that mission, establish a newspaper in San Francisco, The Western Standard, in the interest of the much maligned Mormon people, and publish his translation of The Book of Mormon into the Hawaiian language. The small company for this mission, in which Elizabeth Cannon was making her wedding tour, took the southern route. This journey was far more perilous than crossing the plains. On the Nevada desert they almost perished for want of water, and a long delay caused by the illness of both men and their animals seemed as foreboding as the fate of the Donner party, but faith and administrations gave them hope and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE courage. Elizabeth stood this ordeal better than the men.
The two-year mission in San Francisco was fraught with hardship, inconvenience and sorrow. Poor, as all Latter-day Saints were in those days, Elizabeth had many heartaches. She knew scarcely anyone; she was preparing for the arrival of her first child, and she had the upkeep and care of the mission home on her hands. Two of the printers of the newspaper, poor as themselves, lived with them. Here again her resourcefulness was manifest. Her husband often told of those days, that when he left for work in the morning with comparatively nothing in the house to eat and no money, he returned at evening time to find her smiling and happy with a tempting dinner awaiting him. Perhaps it was the training through this necessity that made her so efficient in household arts, for never in all the years of their married life did he have cause for embarrassment over inviting friends or strangers home to share a meal with him. The excellence of her housekeeping and cookery was proverbial and a matter of great family pride.
During this mission two children were born to them, but the first, George Q. Jr., died when but a few weeks old; the second, John Q., born in the spring of 1857. In September of this year the news of the invasion of President Buchanan's army upon the people of Utah caused the calling in of all the scattered outposts of the Church. Brother Cannon remained to dispose of his printing plant, but his wife and little son, in charge of his brother David, also taking the metal casket containing the body of George Q. Jr., started on the homeward journey. It was winter time and the baby's feet were so frosted on the way that for many years of childhood, it was necessary for him to wear fur-lined shoes during the cold weather.
Almost immediately following the reunion of the family in Salt Lake City, the people were called upon to move south awaiting the result of the entrance of Johnston's army into the city. The Cannon family moved to Fillmore, Brother Cannon taking with him the Deseret News printing press, and he published the paper there. On his return northward from the "move" while at Payson unhitching the teams for noon, a messenger from President Young drove up bearing a letter. The contents of this letter was a call to a mission to the Eastern States with the word that the company with which he was to travel was waiting his arrival. In the eyes of George Q. Cannon a request from President Young was a divine call, and when an hour later the messenger returned he was ready to start on another mission, bidding his family farewell on the roadside. A few weeks later, March 12, 1859, a third son, Abraham H., was born while the father was in Philadelphia on this mission. For these two years Elizabeth supported herself and little ones with such work as was available.
Shortly after the end of this mission her husband was ordained an apostle and became a member of the Council of the Twelve. It now seemed that the home life for which Elizabeth Cannon had so longed was to be her blessing and reward. This, however, was not yet to be. In a few weeks she bade goodbye to her two little boys and departed with her husband for England where he had been called to preside over the European Mission and edit the Millennial Star. She remained there three years, from 1860 to 1863, during which time she traveled with her husband visiting the branches of the Church in England, on the continent and in the Scandinavian countries. She was much beloved by the elders and Saints for her kindness and benevolence, her efficient care of the mission home and her sympathetic assistance wherever there was sickness or sorrow. She had two children born in England. With these and an adopted daughter, a little English orphan named Rosina, aged 10, she left England for home with a party of Mormon emigrants. On the ship (there were no floating palaces in those days) there were many inconveniences. This proved another long and weary journey. The party was detained six weeks at Florence, Nebraska, where there was an epidemic of whooping cough. Her beautiful little girl, Georgianna, died on the plains at Sweetwater. The mother refused to bury the child there and so a crude casket was made from such material as they had with them. Soon after arriving home the little boy George H., the other child born in England, succumbed to the dread disease. Only from the letters interchanged at this painful period can one learn the agony of these days to both parents. Two other little girls, Elizabeth and Lillian, died in infancy; both were born and one died while the father was far from home engaged in missionary service. These sorrowful events were borne with her customary fortitude. President Joseph F. Smith spoke of Elizabeth Cannon as a woman of patience, faithful endurance and unquestionable integrity. The main desire and ambition of Elizabeth Cannon's life was to build: a real home and make it the most desirable place in all the world for her husband and children to enjoy. The return of her husband from this 790 four-year mission brought the beginning of this longed-for opportunity. With the passing of the years she was permitted to satisfy her desires; but, whether in the old log house of her father's or in the more pretentious habitation she was always the same?"The perfect lady to the manor born." Never at any time was she unequal to the occasion, whether at official dinners and receptions in the nation's capital, at homes of distinguished people in the large cities or entertaining some of the most noted people in the world, her dignified and easy manner gave one in her presence a feeling of ease and security. The quiet family life, however, was not to be entirely her lot. Her husband's active career compelled her to accompany him on many of his journeys. Naturally when he represented the Territory as Utah's delegate to Congress, it was imperative for her to set up a temporary home in Washington. So home-loving a woman naturally shrank from the publicity of political life, but she sustained her husband and in her quiet, steadfast way was a support and comfort all through his marvelous career, as long as she lived. When at last it seemed as though there might be years of unmolested, prosperous home life, her health began to fail. Her two eldest sons, John Q. And Abraham, were married and performing missions in foreign lands when the last call came for her, January 25, 1882. Characteristic of her courage to the end, with these two sons thousands of miles away and her devoted husband in Washington making a desperate defense for his people against the passage of the Edmund's Bill, she dictated the following telegram to him: "Remain at your post, God can raise me up, if itis His will, in answer to your prayers there, as well as if you were here." Later in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the day she had her four little children brought to her bedside?Mary Alice, 14; David H., 10; Emily, 7; and Sylvester 4--kissed and blessed them, then to Mary Alice consigned the special care of her baby brother Sylvester. Six of the eleven children survived their mother. One son, Abraham H., became a member of the Council of the Twelve. Two are now living: Sylvester Q., an apostle of the Church, formerly Presiding Bishop, and Mrs. Emily Cannon Willey. A fitting proverb for Elizabeth Hoagland Cannon is the following: "Give her of the fruits of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates." Items for Consideration 1. What qualities of body, heart and mind did Elizabeth Hoagland early exhibit and under what circumstances? 2. What was the occasion of the Exodus from Nauvoo in 1846? ?3. Why did this Exodus cause so much suffering among the exiles? 4. Apparently Elizabeth had a good time crossing th? plains. Explain how she could do this. 5. Elizabeth married one of the most capable and active men found in the Church during his adult lifetime. Who was George Q. Cannon and what positions did he hold? 6. What reasons do you have for believing that Eizabeth was in every way worthy of her honored husband? 7. Name some of the trials and sorrows she -experienced. 8. State why you think she was a true and faithful wife. 9. Tell why you think she was one of God's noble women. 10. Point out incidents that indicate she had unfailing faith in our Heavenly Father. 11. What helpful lessons can we learn from her life? "L. D. S. Training Doesn't Cost?It Pays!" BUSINESS TRAINING INCREASES EMPLOYABILITY Shorthand (Stenotype or Gregg) Typewriting Bookkeeping Accounting Penmanship Character Education English Commercial Law Arithmetic Machine Calculation... And others Day and Evening Classes throughout the year. Low Rates?High Standards of Instruction. Information gladly furnished on request. L D. SS. BUSINESS COLLEGE Do You Value The Friendships You Hold? Enrich Them With Selected Christmas Greetings _ d Choose from the most Attractive Assortment in Town Printed with your own personal sentiment and name Now on display at ~ The