Motto—Charity Never Faileth
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Manager: Louise Y. Robison


VOL. XXV NOVEMBER, 1938 No. 11
Editorial
General Conference
ONCE again Church members from many states and countries assembled in conference to receive instructions, counsel and inspiration from those chosen to lead. These semi-annual gatherings increase the faith, renew the enthusiasm and spiritually strengthen all who attend. The practical aspects as well as the spiritual aims of our religion were forcefully presented at the recent sessions. Keenly alive to conditions of our day which demand the highest type of citizenship Latter-day Saint standards were clearly defined and members admonished to live by these standards. Our venerable Prophet opened the Conference with a strong defense of work as a spiritual and health boon to mankind, saying, "Work is pleasing to the Lord." The present-day need and importance of honesty was emphasized; not honesty restricted to the commandment, "Thou shalt not steal," but an all-inclusive honesty?fidelity to promises, honesty of purpose, honesty of thought and deed. Selfishness was vigorously attacked as being responsible for many of the ills besetting the world today. The spiritual phases of our religion were stressed. Prayer as a daily guide in life was encouraged. The doctrine of Sabbath observance, which was declared to be "a very old doctrine of the Church," and yet one which is being more and more flagrantly disregarded, was courageously defended and the benefits accruing from strict adherence to it were convincingly presented. Our religion constantly holds before us such concepts as truth, justice, honesty, charity, brotherly love; it has always dignified labor, and taught with vigor the doctrine of thrift and industry. Most of the inhibitions which restrain us from wrong doing and most of the ideals which lead to strong character and to a wholesome social order are ours because of our religious teachings. Men and women are incapable of making a good life as individuals or a good society collectively without the assistance of ideals, and where can higher ones be found than in the doctrines of the Church? That these be reiterated often is imperative; that they be interpreted and re-interpreted in the light of current needs by divinely called and inspired leaders is essential. It is well that Church members assemble to hear.
Editor Belle S. Spafford Assistant Manager