[Vol41 | February 1954 | Sequence: 13 | Category: General Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: Looker]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME From Pinky Cheek to Drawing Table Ardith Looker]
"I  have  three  children,"  she  tells  us,  "a  wonderful  husband,  and  a  very  interesting 
mechanical  engineer  father,  Alma  Ek,  who  hves  in  Merced,  Cahfornia.  I  am  hterature 
teacher  for  the  Ogden  Twenty-Third  Ward  Rehef  Society.  Writing  is  my  hobby,  my 
husband  and  children  my  profession.  I  am  a  member  of  the  Blue  Quill,  Ogden  Writ- 
ers Club,  and  the  League  of  Utah  Writers,  and  I  would  suggest  to  any  ambitious 
young  writer  that  she  have  a  family,  the  larger  the  better,  because  a  family,  especially 
the  teen-agers,  are  a  constant  source  of  story  material." 
In  addition  to  the  Church  magazines,  the  work  of  Mrs,  Knowles  has  appeared  in 
Woman's  Day,  Today's  Woman,  The  American  Magazine,  Extension,  and  many  other 
publications.

Social  Activities  in  Relief  Society 
Blanche  B.  Stoddard 
Member,  General  Board  of  Relief  Society 
[Address  Delivered  at  the  Annual  General  Relief  Society  Conference, 
September  30,  1953] 
IT  
was  my  privilege  this  summer 
to  visit  in  the  mission  field  and 
attend  Relief  Society  meetings 
and  socials  there.  I  asked  one  sis- 
ter who  had  recently  been  baptized 
what  had  caused  her  to  come  into 
the  Church.  She  said  she  had 
moved  into  the  community  a  total 
stranger.  One  day  her  neighbor 
invited  her  to  go  to  a  Relief  Society 
work  meeting.  She  met  so  many 
splendid  women,  learned  so  much, 
and  had  such  a  good  time,  she  asked 
to  go  again  to  some  of  the  other 
meetings.  She  became  a  Relief  So- 
ciety member,  then  a  member  of 
the  Church.  Her  mother-in-law, 
who  is  not  a  member,  said  to  her, 
''I  don't  see  why  you  didn't  join 
the  group  to  which  I  belong."  The 
daughter  answered,  'They  did  not 
invite  me."  I  hope  you  and  I  are 
not  passing  up  some  good  oppor- 
tunities with  our  neighbors  because 
we  do  not  give  that  little  invita- 
tion. 
The  past  months,  as  we  have  held 
conventions  in  your  stakes,  we  have
