[Vol41 | February 1954 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Fiction | Title: Womans | Author: Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Raymond W. Cannon]
MRS.  LILLIE  WALKER,  WELLSVILLE,  UTAH,  DISPLAYS  SOME  OF  HER 
QUILTS  AND  HOOKED  RUGS 
aioovies  uieip  to  Jxeeo  crier    c/< 
eep 
^oung 
Lillie  Walker,  Wellsville,  Utah,  Has  Made  Two  Hundred  Sixty  Quilts  and 
Many  Beautiful  Hooked  Rugs 
Lillie  Walker,  seventy-five  years  old,  has  been  a  widow  for  twenty-two  years,  but 
she  has  made  her  own  living  by  doing  home  nursing  and  making  and  selling  her  beau- 
tiful hooked  rugs  and  other  items  of  handwork.  Without  assistance,  she  has  made  and 
quilted  two  hundred  sixty  quilts,  and  has  designed  and  completed  many  hooked  rugs 
which  have  given  her  a  reputation  for  her  original  patterns  and  beautiful  blending  of 
colors,  as  well  as  expert  workmanship. 
Mrs.  Walker  loves  to  work  in  the  temples  and  has  performed  ordinance  work  in 
the  Logan,  Salt  Lake,  Manti,  St.  George,  Idaho  Falls,  and  Cardston  temples.  She 
has  been  a  Relief  Society  visiting  teacher  for  thirty-five  years.  She  seldom  misses  at- 
tendance at  Relief  Society  and  Sunday  School  and  often  walks  a  mile  to  attend  these 
meetings.  Of  her  twelve  children,  nine  are  still  living,  and  she  has  forty  grandchildren 
and  thirty-seven  great-grandchildren.     Her  life  is  busy,  useful,  and  happy. 
ofrost 
Lucy  WooIJey  Brown 
Only  the  shadows  made  by  trees 
Are  patches  of  frost  this  dawn. 
The  sun  kissed  other  white  dust  away; 
And  left  diamonds  on  the  lawn. 
Page  106

c/o    vi/ashington 
Lucille  Waters  Mattson 
"It  WASHINGTON  walked  among  his  men  at  Valley  Forge  during  the  "hard  winter," 
■  ■  from  which  time  was  reckoned  for  seventy-five  years  in  the  backwoods,  and 
instilled  in  them  courage  and  endurance  to  drill  and  starve  and  die  for  freedom.  It 
was  miraculous  that  they  did  not  capitulate — those  men  whose  ancestors  had  come  up 
from  the  dark  ages  knowing  little  but  oppression,  lack  of  opportunity,  and  autocratic  rule. 
But  the  spark  of  freedom  was  firmly  imbedded,  and  the  blood  of  Ephraim  was  among 
them;  they  were  fighting  upon  a  promised  land  for  a  righteous  cause.  Though  none 
could  fully  understand  the  purposes  as  yet,  the  passion  for  freedom  which  burned 
in  Washington's  breast,  was  fanned  to  flame  by  his  strength,  his  courage,  the  de- 
termination of  this  inspired  leader. 
We,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  accord  to  him  all  the  greatness,  all  the  personal  at- 
tributes of  character,  all  the  genius  of  leadership  given  by  the  world,  and,  in  addition, 
we  acclaim  him  as  inspired  of  God,  fulfilling  his  holy  purposes,  chosen  to  free  a 
favored  land  for  a  Prophet  to  bring  upon  the  earth  again  the  true  and  everlasting 
gospel. 
{Bread 
Christie  Lund  Coles 
How  much  the  modern  child  has  lost, 
Not  coming  home  to  the  good,  warm  crust 
Of  homemade  bread  with  butter,  sweet. 
Spread  thickly  for  a  special  treat  .... 
Windows  were  steamed,  the  house  oven-warm. 
When,  pink-cheeked,  we  entered  from  the  storm. 
And  found  the  fragrance,  unequaled  still. 
Of  brown-baked  loaves.  Words  cannot  tell 
How  the  world  became  suddenly  sunny 
With  a  slice  of  bread  golden  with  honey. 
oCate   (Buzzard 
MaryhaJe  Woolsey 
Wind-driven  in  ghostly  hordes,  down  city  streets 
And  up  small  country  lanes,  the  snowflakes  play 
At  hectic  games — well  knowing  how  brief  their  time; 
Knowing  how  close  behind,  spring  comes  this  way. 
Page  107

QJrom   L^edar  L^hest  to   LDressing   cJable 
Chia  Laster 
TN  small  houses  and  apartments,  space  economy  is  the  vital  keynote  today.  Many 
•*•  families  have  growing  pains,  and  the  problem  of  where  to  put  winter  clothes  in 
summer  and  summer  clothes  in  winter,  and  still  have  a  well-balanced  bedroom,  has 
been  something  we  have  all  faced  at  some  time  or  other. 
Suppose  you  have  an  older  cedar  chest  that  you  cannot  do  without,  and,  at 
the  same  time,  do  not  have  space  for  that  much-desired  dressing  table.  If  this  happens 
to  be  the  problem  in  your  home,  here  is  a  simple  solution.  Make  the  chest  into  an 
attractive  dressing  table!  It  can  be  done  at  very  Httle  expense  and  without  any  ex- 
perience at  all. 
MAKING  A  DRESSING  TABLE  FROM  A  CEDAR  CHEST 
Materials  Needed 
The  material  you  choose  for  your  dressing  table  skirt  will  depend,  of  course,  upon 
the  material  of  your  drapes  and  spread  and  the  other  furniture  and  colors  in  the  room. 
But  let  us  suppose  that  the  fabric  is  rayon  taffeta.  This  makes  a  lovely  dressing  table 
skirt.  You  will  need  about  2  Yi  yards,  54  inches  wide.  Also,  you  will  need  one  roll 
of  cotton  batting,  the  width  of  the  chest  top.  Be  sure  to  buy  two  boxes  of  upholstering 
tacks,  one  box  of  carpet  tacks,  and  have  handy  a  hammer  and  scissors. 
Have  a  piece  of  clear  glass  cut  to  fit  the  top  of  dressing  table,  which  is  the  top 
of  the  cedar  chest.  Now,  for  the  cedar  chest  base,  buy  these  materials  and  have  them 
cut  in  this  manner:  plywood,  /4"  thick,  cut  the  same  size  as  the  bottom  of  your 
cedar  chest.  Have  legs  cut  to  height  desired,  using  4"  by  4".  For  leg  supports,  have 
two  pieces  of  1"  by  4"  boards  cut  the  same  length  as  the  baseboard.  Have  two  pieces 
1"  by  4"  cut  the  same  width  as  the  baseboard.    See  illustrations  A-B-C-D. 
Page  108