[Vol41 | February 1954 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Article | Title: V41_02_00_Misc]
The Cover: Rushmore National Memorial, Black Hills, South Dakota Photograph by Josef Muench Frontispiece: Yosemite Valley, California Photograph by David Gardner Cover Design by Evan Jensen

Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Belle S. Spafford President

Marianne C. Sharp First Counselor

Velma N. Simonsen Second Counselor

Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen

Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman

Edith S. Elliott Mary J. Wilson Nellie W. Neal Winniefred S.

Leone G. Layton Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Manwaring

Blanche B. Stoddard Josie B. Bay Elna P. Haymond

Vol. 41                          FEBRUARY 1954                         NO. 2

Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. Phone 4-5911. Subscription price: $2.00 a year in advance. Subscriptions expire at G.M. A year is defined as beginning with the current or next issue at the time subscription is entered. Subscriptions beginning prior to January will expire at the end of the current volume. All volumes begin in January with new volume. Your paper will be sent to your address at once, giving all our new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 12, 1915, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in Section 1103, Act of October 3, 1917, authorized on July 3, 1918. We do not hold ourselves responsible for the opinions and statements of our contributors unless stated postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only.

THEHAMMOND CHORD ORGAN Offers This Possibility. Sounds Impossible, Doesn't It? Write For Details, or Better, Come In and Prove It For Yourself. GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. — "3 BIG STORES" — Salt Lake 2 oo ee.74 So. Main 2546 Washington 57 No. University Ogden.. Provo.

The Pride of Your Library! Your Relief Society Magazines when handsomely bound into permanent yearly volumes acquire new value as excellent reference books. Just $2.50 (Cloth Binding) $3.50 (Leather Binding) Per Volume If necessary to mail them to you, the following postage rates will apply. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 200 ccc cece 25 150 to 300 miles Lncsececee GLO 300 to 600 miles. Nc.. O34 600 to 1000 miles w-» BAZ 1000 to 1400 miles ae:.. DT 1400 to 1800 miles..60 Over 1800 miles. 69 Leave them at our conveniently located — I office. Deseret News Press Salt Lake City, Utah mee) 31 Richards St. Ics 4- sania 1788

the Congress of the Confederation made preparations to go out of existence by voting for presidential electors to be chosen by election in January 1789, and by making New York the seat of the new government until other arrangements could be made. The elections were held. Washington was elected and installed in office. He it was who was the obvious choice of all. Even during the debates in the Convention, and in conversation, indications to this effect were apparent. When he became president, Washington is said to have expressed preference for this title: "His High Mightiness, the President of the United States and Protector of their Liberties." The inauguration of Washington marked the opening of a new era in America. References Farrand, Max: The Fathers of the Constitution, Yale University Press, 1921. Smith, Joseph Fielding: The Progress of Man, pp. 295-299. Questions for Discussion 1. What were the great compromises of the Constitution? 2. What three branches of government are provided for under the Constitution? 3. Describe briefly how the "checks and balances" of the American Constitution operate to prevent one branch of the government from dominating the other branches of government. 4. Describe the manner in which the Constitution was presented by the Convention to Congress and the people, and by whom it was ratified.

For lasting enjoyment RELAX with a good book 1. Book of Mormon Evidences in Ancient America DEWEY FARNSWORTH Here is an outstanding book. Rich in both illustrations and printed facts. Readers will find the comparison of Book of Mormon scriptures with recent archacological discoveries startlingly similar. For those who wish to relive in their faith the Book of Mormon, this recent publication by Dewey Farnsworth is of utmost significance $6.00 Deluxe—$7.50 2. Pocket Book of Mormon Cloth—$1.50 3. Life Eternal LYNN McKINLAY Here is a book that offers helpful guidance to anyone planning to do Temple work. Temple Ordinances are explained and presented with thoroughness. $2.00 4. Gospel Ideals Selections from the discourses of DAVID O. McKAY This book contains specific information on all important Church subjects — and, even more than that, it is a volume that will influence and inspire the building of strong, wholesome character $4.00 t * - tt Na tse git ae -- Salt: Lake: City: Utah 2 yal Gentlemen: Please send the following circled books: 1 2 3 4 Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order or ( ) charge to my account in the amount of T\ EE eo cop E ER REFEDSSEC-C EE DI DEEUISUUBCUSEE EERE ER ER BES 55C0 0000000000 City a enn) (< I (- ere = U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid PERMIT No. 690 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PK-10 10V-15225 JAN 33 ILK Wary Lee "Jaylor's Husband "Seated Recipe

You'll need a 214 lb. Chicken, cut into pieces, to serve four. Pour 114 cups Sego Evaporated Milk into a bowl and dip each piece of chicken into it. Save the milk that's left for gravy. There should be 1 cup; if not, add more milk. = Roll each piece of chicken in a mixture of 14 cup flour, 11 teaspoons salt, and lg teaspoon pepper. Brown chicken slowly in a skillet in 14 inch hot fat about 30 minutes, or until drumstick is tender when pierced with a fork. Remove chicken (keep hot). Drain fat from skillet, then put 2 tablespoons fat back into skillet. Mix in 2 tablespoons flour, 34 teaspoon salt, few grains pepper. Stir in 1 cup water. Boil and stir for two minutes. A W % Stir in the 1 cup of saved milk and heat till steaming hot, but do not boil. Serve the hot gravy with the fried chicken, mashed potatoes, and whole kernel corn for a real American chicken dinner. WH Meal That Makes Lips Smack! Crisp, golden-brown chicken that's tender clear EGO through... When you dip it in Sego Milk; " Ey qomocenize gD before frying. The gravy's always rich and PoRAT creamy smooth because Sego Milk is twice as K rich as oN GTI bottled milk. Oy 9 Meo INSTITUTE OF RELIGION Stowe 4602 SOUTH REDWOOD RCAD SALT LAKE CITY, Ui. 84107 Yes ma'am — an easy way to any hungry husband's heart. Here's your one dish meal that tastes better and costs less. And why shouldn't it, when it's made with Sego Milk, the milk for cooking? That naturally makes it extra rich, creamy, and flavorful. And best of all, double-rich Sego Milk costs less than ordinary milk — a real bargain in goodness. See Wary Lee "Jaglor's SALMON MACARONI DINNER Directions Ingredients for 4 Turn on oven and set at 350 (moderate). Grease well a baking dish holding about 6 cups. Boil until tender, {1 cup elbow MACARONI then drain in 6 cups boiling WATER (do not rinse) I and 2 teasp. SALT (1 can canned Cream of CELERY SOUP Mix in a I or )%4 cup SEGO Evaporated 2-quart bowl Milk l% cup finely cut PIMIENTO 1 ted A i Add half of I CHEESE Stir in macaroni I* SUPS (1-lb. Can) d drained SALMON, ANG I broken into pieces RA ILS TAMIA D INCREASED pew" (0 uy TereTRD Quas ane = Tg Wheat avons uaul® <<. Pour into greased baking dish. Sprinkle rest of cheese around edge of baking dish. Bake on center rack of oven until bubbly hot or about 25 minutes. Serve hot from the dish.

THE MOST FAMOUS RELIGIOUS TRILOGY OF ALL TIME! Ithe following: (1) ALL THREE =.. Ot FULTON OURSLER'S ga NOTE: If you have read any of the above 1 books, you may substitute any or all of the "Hammond's New Supreme World Atlas"—over 100 maps in full color. (2) "Meta Given's Encyclopedia of Cooking''— contains 2,000 recipes, 1,700 pages. (3) 'The za Lady of Arlington," by Harnett T. Kane—a stirring biography of Mrs. Robert E. Lee. I "GREATEST" BOOKS 89 WITH MEMBERSHIP IN THE \, milly Reading (lub ULTON OuRSLER was the most widelyread and beloved inspirational writer of our times. Millions of families everywhere in the land cherish his books; and millions more were devoted to his daily newspaper column. Now in this unique Family Reading Club offer, you are invited to accept all three of his ''Greatest' Books for only $1.89 if you join the Club now. Read, below, how the Family Reading Club brings you the finest new books at Bargain prices. Then mail the coupon to join, and get your three books without delay! Yours for only The Greatest Faith Ever Known The story of the founding of Christianity and how the Disciples brought the Gospel to a waiting world. Final volume of Mr. Oursler's trilogy. The Greatest Story Ever Told A reverent, faithful retelling of the sublime story of Jesus, bringing Him and those whose lives were entwined with His excitingly close to you. The Greatest Book Ever Written The Old Testament story — of Adam, Eve, Moses — of all the Biblical immortals; written with all the author's passion and divine belief. WHY THE FAMILY READING CLUB MAKES THIS UNUSUAL OFFER! The Family Reading Club makes this unusual offer to demonstrate how membership in the Club brings you the best and most enjoyable new novels, biographies and inspirational books at much less than the publishers' regular editions! Each month publishers submit books they believe will meet the Family Reading Club standards. Our Editors then select the book they can recommend most enthusiastically. 'These are books which every member of your family can read—books by such outstanding authors as Thomas Costain, Fulton Oursler, Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings, Darwin Teilhet and Bellamy Partridge. 'They are books you can safely leave where older children can read them if they wish. What Membership Means To You There is no charge for membership in the Club beyond the cost of the books them- « selves. You pay only $1.89 each I (plus postage and handling) for the books you purchase after reading the - "MAIL COUPON NOW! CHECK THE 3 BOOKS YOU WANT with MemBersHiP FAMILY READING CLUB, Dept.3RSM, MINEOLA, NEW YORK '*Bonus'' Book for each four Club selections you take. When the value of the Bonus Books is figured in, you can save as much as 60% of your book dollars. Join Now — Send No Money If you believe in a book club which will, appeal to the finest instincts of every member of your family, let us introduce you to the Family Reading Club NOW, while you can get all three of Fulton Oursler's ''Greatest'' Books—two as your FREE Membership Gift, and one as your first Club selection—for only $1.89! Or if you prefer, you may substitute any of the alternate books listed above. Send no money, just mail the coupon today before this unusual offer is withdrawn! FAMILY READING CLUB — MINEOLA, NEW YORK ne eee a eae ae book review magazine which will come to your home each month. You pay postman nothing; your bill will be due later. It is not necessary to purchase a book every month — you may accept as few as four each year to retain your membership. All selections are new, complete, well-printed and well-bound. And your books will be delivered to your door—ready to read! Save Up to 60% The purchase of books from the Club for only $1.89 each—instead of $3.00 to $4.00 in the publishers' original cditions—saves you from 35% to 50% on each book you accept. In addition, the Family Reading Club distributes an outstanding biography, reference hook or inspirational work as a free te Please send me at once the three books I have checked at the right as my two Membership Gift Books and first Club selection, and bill me only $1.89 (plus delivery) for all three. Also enroll me as a member of the Family Reading Club and send me, each month, a review of the Club's forthcoming selection. I have the privilege of notifying you in advance if I do not wish to accept any selection, or alternate book offered—at the specia) members' price of only $1.89 each (plus postage and handling). There are no membership dues or fees, and I may accept as few as four selections or alternates during the coming twelve months. As a member, I will receive a free Bonus Book with each four Club selections or alternates I accept. SPECIAL NO-RISK GUARANTEE: If not delighted, I will return al books in 7 days and this membership will be canceled. Mr. MES ssssssssorensasesosscssronanssnconoonesesosesoscveasstsecsunvesiesesassusenysestavssesooreos#stne Miss (Please print) Street and No. Cit Yersascaces Zone. State Same offer in Canada. Address Family Reading Club (Canada), 105 Bond St., Toronto 2, Ont. Offer good only tin U. S. And Canada. THE GREATEST STORY EVER TOLD THE GREATEST BOOK EVER WRITTEN THE GREATEST FAITH EVER KNOWN (ALTERNATES) (J Hammond's Ailes (J The Lady of Arlington () Meta Given's Encyclopedia of Cooking