[Vol41 | February 1954 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: But | Author: Richards]
[But Then, There's Still Nothing Over the Man of Many Friends Stephen L Richards]

If only he could use his hands he'd be out of here and making his own way! Eighty wasn't old for a Wellman! Nathanial held his hands up and looked at them. They were large hands, but the fingers were twisted out of shape with rheumatism. He tried to rub them together, hoping to get the blood circulating, but after a few desperate attempts he let them drop onto the coverlet. He lay there thinking of Ruby Paul and hating him. He thought angrily, Couldn't you see what Ruby was like inside, Amy? And then anger towards his daughter drained out of him. Poor little Amy! So trusting that she couldn't believe anyone she loved could be dishonest, and she had been blindly in love with Ruby. Nathanial took a letter from the drawer of his bedside table. He sat there holding it in his big, twisted Page 81 82 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1954 hands, but he didn't read it. He knew what it said. "Forgive me, Father I didn't realize." Yes, he had forgiven long ago, but not soon enough, he thought with regret. For a time he had returned all her letters unopened. This letter with an Illinois address had come six years later. By then he was no longer angry, he only wanted to see her, to learn how Ruby was treating her, and he had eagerly opened the letter. It was a short, pitiful little letter, and he could tell she was not well, not happy. He had answered immediately, but the letter had been returned unopened with deceased written across the envelope. If only he hadn't put the deed to the farm in her name that time when he thought he was dying of pneumonia! If only he hadn't taken that trip east and left Amy home attending college. When he came back Amy had eloped with Ruby, and the farm was sold! No doubt Ruby had told her, "We'll sell the farm and put the money in an equity for your father, so when he's old he won't have to work!" 'There had been nothing he could do. Her signature was legal and binding! FE replaced the letter in a drawer. He believed there had been a child. Ruby's child! He thought. No kin of mine! Yes, he forgave, but oh, if he could have only one more spring on the farm, even one more day to spend in the sunshine! His spirits drooped. Why wish for the impossible. "Count your blessings, Nathanial. Every day tell your gratitude to God." That was what John Lincoln who was past ninety and had the room downstairs was always telling him. "Be grateful for a roof over your head and food and clean clothes and shoes on your feet. Be grateful for a bed at the end of the ward with a window you can open or close as you please." Nathanial bowed his head. He prayed silently, "Oh, God, I am grateful this day for my many blessings " He looked out the window. He saw the brick wall of the laundry and the steam coming out the vent. There was nothing of spring here. It had come to him through the open window from twenty miles away. He stood up. He was a tall man, still straight and erect as one of the stately poplar trees that had lined his driveway. By force of will he tried to lift his spirits. He would dress and go out in the sun before breakfast. 'There was a patch of lawn in front of the home. He would water that. With his two hands he could manage the hose if someone would turn on the tap. He pulled on his trousers. He heard a laugh. He waited tense, knowing what would follow. It came. "The same kettle of soup!" Nathanial turned his head. Eddie Stringer was watching from the bed across the room. His black eyes were alive with malice and mischief, his curly hair still blue black, but there was evil in his lined face and nothing in the thin, emaciated body to suggest the handsome, dashing man whose _ boast had been that he could dance and drink all night and never show it. BESIDE THE STILL WATERS "Saint and sinner both in the same pot of stew!" Eddie laughed. Nathanial thought wryly that here was the supreme irony of life. That of all the people he had known in his life, Eddie Stringer should be the one with whom he had to spend his last days! He hurried into his shirt, his gnarled hands more clumsy than ever in his haste, anxious to be away from Eddie and the things he would say. "Remember when we were kids, Nat!" Eddie laughed. " "You'd better straighten out, Eddie,' you said. 'Or youll end up in jail!' You, working like a horse in the fields!" Eddie: sat up. "Listen, all of you." "Ah, shut up!" Cries came from the other occupants of the ward. But Eddie paid no attention. "Nathanial lived the way the Good Book said he should, and we're both in the same kettle of soup now!" Nathanial walked out of the ward, his shoelaces dangling. But — he did not get out in time. The bitterness was in his heart. He stepped into the linen closet in the hall. He leaned his head against a shelf of towels that smelled of strong lye and soap. "Why?" he asked himself. "Why have I come to this end along with Fddie?