[Vol41 | February 1954 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
Sixty    Ljears  Kyigo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  February  i,  and  February  15,  1894 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
UTAH  SILK  AT  THE  WORLD'S  FAIR:  The  ladies  of  Davis  County  con- 
tributed a  set  of  furniture  (seven  pieces)  to  the  ladies  reception  room  in  the  Utah 
Building,  upholstered  in  home-raised  silk,  it  was  a  sage  green  brocaded  with  a  spray 
of  wild  sage,  the  color  harmonizing  with  the  other  furnishings  in  the  room  ....  The 
raising  of  the  worm  is  a  labor  which  is  extremely  interesting,  and  to  the  womanly  heart 
brings  out  a  loving  care  and  interest  which  makes  it  more  than  mere  labor. 
— Margaret  A.  Caine 
SOUVENIRS  OF  LILAC  TIME:  I  have  the  courage  to  declare  myself  a  devoted 
admirer,  not  only  of  the  beautiful  and  fantastic,  but  the  weird  in  nature.  It  is  part 
of  my  composition  ....  Lilacs  are  one  of  my  especial  weaknesses,  for  they  are  as- 
sociated with  the  earliest  recollections  of  my  child-life  and  school-girl  history.  I  never 
see  a  lilac  but  it  calls  up  tender  memories  connected  with  the  past  ....  And,  if  I 
may  tell  it,  the  lilac  bush  oft  holds  many  a  precious  secret. 
— ^Aunt  Em 
A  FRAGMENT 
Thou  call'st  from  out  the  deep  recesses  of  my  soul 
sweet  sympathy  .... 
And  all  the  while  I  feel  a  magic  touch 
That  brings  such  harmony  of  sight  and  sound 
And  charity  and  love  my  bosom  swell, 
With  such  intensity  no  tongue  can  tell 
And  thy  bright  presence  vivifies  the  spell; 
And  I  am  treading  on  enchanted  ground  .... 
— E.  B.  W. 
MUSIC  IN  UTAH:  In  the  growth  of  civihzation  and  the  unfoldment  of  social 
development,  music  and  her  twin  sister  poetry  take  precedence  of  all  the  arts,  and 
present  an  unmistakable  index  to  national  character.  The  pioneer  settlers  who  crossed 
the  Rocky  Mountains  to  make  homes  in  the  valley  of  the  Great  Salt  Lake  were  cer- 
tain in  the  early  stage  of  their  peculiar  civilization  to  manifest  the  genius  of  music, 
and  the  hosts  of  Israel  beguiled  many  an  hour  of  their  weary  march  across  the  conti- 
nent by  singing  the  songs  of  Zion.  The  first  musical  organization  formed  in  Utah 
was  a  brass  band  .  .  .  under  the  leadership  of  Captain  William  Pitt  ....  In  1857 
Dominico  Ballo,  an  Italian,  highly  endowed  with  the  musical  genius  of  his  race,  came 
to  Salt  Lake  City  and  electrified  the  people  with  his  performances  on  the  clarinet 
.  ...  In  1853  David  O.  Calder,  the  pioneer  teacher  of  vocal  music,  came  to  Salt  Lake 
City,  and  settled  over  Jordan  where  he  taught  the  first  singing  school  in  the  Terri- 
tory ....  In  1862  Professor  Charles  J.  Thomas,  who  had  for  years  been  associated 
with  some  of  the  principal  theatre  orchestras  in  London,  came  to  Salt  Lake  City,  and 
at  once  took  charge  of  the  orchestra  at  the  new  Salt  Lake  Theater  ....  — Selected 
BRIGHAM  YOUNG  AND  THE  DRAMA:  Brigham  Young,  the  leader  of  mod- 
ern Israel  in  its  exodus  to  these  mountains,  with  his  profound  knowledge  of  human 
nature,  typed  with  his  New  England  sagacity,  evinced  consummate  wisdom  in  sup- 
plying his  people  with  the  means  of  social  and  physical  revivification.  The  weariness 
of  travel,  and  the  labor  of  making  new  homes,  were  enlivened  by  joyous  music,  fa- 
miliar songs,  with  the  merry  dance  and  social  ball  ....  The  projects  of  organizing  a 
company  with  the  combination  of  the  musical  and  dramatic  elements,  received  the 
hearty  sanction  of  Brigham  Young.  — Selected 
Page  96