[Vol41 | February 1954 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Fiction | Title: Her | Author: Benson]
[Her Finest Creative Medium Pauline Benson]

Stephens LORIN FARR STAKE (OGDEN, UTAH) VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE SERVED FOR MORE THAN FIFTY YEARS Left to right: Annis Badger, ninety-two years old, a visiting teacher for fifty years; Bertha Simmons, sixty-seven years old, who has served as a visiting teacher for fiftyone years; Charlotte Swenson, seventy-five, who has served as a visiting teacher for fifty-two years. Sister Simmons and Sister Swenson still visit their districts each month Emma L. Stephens is president of Lorin Farr Stake Relief Society. Beca use of Me Bertha A. Kleinman Before I lose the beauty of today, And night shall pencil out the horizon, Let me respond with something brave to say, Something for you before the day is gone. Before I lose the glint of this sweet hour, And day's routine shall portion all my time, Let me some message with its good empower, To tell you how I love you, friend of mine! Before I lose the courage you have taught, The treasure of conviction you possess, Let me respond in some reflected thought To carry on and on its loveliness. Let me strive on some oracle to be That you shall yet be glad because of me. I ae oO t oe DEPARTMENT Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 24—Alma, Son of Alma Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: Alma 1-8) For Tuesday, May 4, 1954 Objective: To point out the influence which righteous men can exert in a democracy. F'TER the death of Alma the father and King Mosiah, Alma the son had full responsibility for the ecclesiastical and secular affairs of the Nephites throughout the land of Zarahemla, he being chief judge and high priest. (See Mosiah 29:42.) The task of administering the government was based upon laws Mosiah had formulated, and these laws had been accepted by the people. Moreover, the people had elected their lesser judges and were aware of the responsibility which they had to protect and preserve their newly given liberties under their representative form of government. Nehor Always, however, there are people who will not work according to a pattern established by the majority.. Nehor was one of these men. In the first year of the reign of the judges, he struggled to introPage 124 duce priestcraft among the people. He taught that every priest and every teacher ought to become popular, and ought not to labor for his own support, but should be supported by the people. He contended against members of the Church because they preached the gospel one to another without money and without price. In lieu of the true gospel, Nehor taught that the Lord had created all men and had redeemed all men, and, in the end, all men should have eternal life. Nehor found many people who believed his words, and he even began to establish a church. But Nehor was not willing to rely upon his persuasive power alone, but sought to enforce his views by means of the sword. One day Nehor met Gideon, who had been an instrument in the hands of God in delivering Limhi and his people out of bondage, a LESSON DEPARTMENT teacher and a valiant defender of the faith. Altercations arose between them when Gideon opposed Nehor's point of view. As the argument became more heated, Nehor unsheathed his sword and_ slew Gideon, who was old and not able to withstand Nehor's blows. Nehor was given a trial and was judged by Alma in accordance with the law which has been established among the people by Mosiah. By the law Alma condemned him to death as a murderer. He was also guilty of priestcraft and had sought to enforce it by the sword. Nehor was, therefore, taken to the top of the hill Manti and was put to death. Nehor's death, however, did not end priestcraft, for there were other greedy souls who sought for riches and honor. 'These men contrived to preach false doctrines, feigning a sincere belief in them, because they knew that the laws of Mosiah punished a liar, but the law had no power on any man for his belief. Resultant conditions brought the withdrawal and excommunication of many from the Church. Persecution of the members of the Church followed. This persecution solidified the group. Those who had sufficient food shared with the poor, the needy, and the afflicted. The people realized that all were equally precious in the sight of God, that the preacher was no better than the hearer, nor the teacher than the learner. A spirit of greater co-operation entered among the members of the Church, and they increased in all kinds of wealth. They had an abundance of flocks, herds, grain, gold, silver, silk, linen, and other 125 precious things. 'They regarded their wealth, not as an end, but as a means; they did not set their hearts upon riches but were liberal to all. They clothed the naked, fed the hungry, and administered relief to the sick. This condition did not exist among those who did not belong to the Church.