
[Handwritten in pen, "W. Exponent"]
Woman’s Exponent
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation. 
Vol. 33 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE, 1904 No. 1.


CONTENTS. 

Extracts from Letter..........Alice Merrill Horne	1
Farmers Ward Relief Society........Sister Mains 2
Mothers' Work- South Sanpete..........................2
Relief Society Nurse Class....Emma A. Empey	3
Notes and News.................................................3
Relief Society Reports.......................................5
In Memorium.....................................................6
Items from Berlin...............................................7
The Berlin Meetings...........................................7
EDITORIAL- Thirty-third Volume....................4
A Decade of Service...........................................4
Birthday Anniversary..........................................4
A Happy Birthday Part.......................................4
POETRY- The Women Who Went to the Field
.......................................................Clara Barton 1


[Column 1]
“THE WOMEN WHO WENT TO THE
			FIELD.”

The women who went to the field, you say,
The women who went to the field; and pray
What did they go for—just to be in the way?
They’d not know the difference betwixt work and
	play?
And what did they know about war, anyway?
What could they do?—of what use could they be?
They would scream at the sight of a gun, don’t
	you see?
Just fancy them round where the bugle-notes play,
And the long roll is bidding us on to the fray.
Imagine their skirts ’mong artillery wheels, 
And watch for their flutter as they flee ’cross the
	field
When the charge is rammed home and the fire
	belches hot;
They never will wait for the answering shot.
They would faint at the first drop of blood in their
	sight.
What fun for us boys,—(ere we enter the fight);
They might pick some lint, and tear up some
	sheets
And make us some jellies, and send on their
	sweets,
And knit some soft socks for Uncle Sam’s shoes,
And write us some letters, and tell us the news.
And thus it was settled, by common consent,
That husbands, or brothers, or whoever went,
That the place for the women was in their own
	homes.
There to patiently wait until victory comes.
But later it chanced—just how, no one knew—
That the lines slipped a bit, and some ’gan to
	crowd through;
And they went,—where did they go?—Ah! where
	did they not?
Show us the battle, the field, or the spot
Where the groans of the wounded rang out on the
	air
That her ear caught it not, and her hand was not
	there:
Who wiped the death sweat from the cold, clammy
	brow.
And sent home the message—“’Tis well with him
	now;”
Who watched in the tents whilst the fever fires
	burned;
And the pain tossing limbs in agony turned;
Who wet the parched tongue, calmed delirium’s
	strife
Till the dying lips murmured, “My mother,” “My
	wife.”
And who were they all?—They were many, my
	men:
Their records were kept by no tabular pen:
They exist in traditions from father to son,
Who recalls, in dim memory, now here and there
	one.
A few names were writ, and by chance live today;
But’s a perishing record, fast fading away.
Of those we recall, there are scarcely a score;
Dix, Dame, Bickerdyke, Edison, Harvey and
Moore,

[Column 2]
Fales, Wittenmeyer, Gilson, Safford and Lee,
And poor Cutter dead in the sands of the sea;
And Frances D. Gage, our “Aunt Fanny” of old,
Whose voice rang for freedom when freedom was
	sold.
And Husband, and Etheridge, and Harlan and
	Case.
Livermore, Alcott, Hancock and Chase.
And Turner, and Hawley, and Potter and Hall!
Ah! the list grows apace, as they come at the call, 
Did these women quail at the sight of a gun?
Will some soldier tell us of one he saw run?
Will he glance at the boats on the great western
	flood,
At Pittsburg and Shiloh, did they faint at the
	blood?
And the brave wife of Grant stood there with
	them then,
And her calm stately presence gave strength to his
	men.
And Marie of Logan: she went with them too;
A bride, scarcely more than a sweetheart, ’tis
	true.
Her young cheek grows pale when the bold troop-
	ers ride.
Where the “Black Eagle” soars, she is close at his
	side;
She staunches his blood, cools his fever-burnt
	breath,
And the wave of her hand stays the Angel of
	Death;
She nurses him back, and restores once again
To both army and state the great leader of men.
She has smoothed his black plumes and laid them
	to sleep
Whilst the angels above them their high vigils
	keep:
And she sits here alone, with the snow on her
	brow—
Your cheers for her, Comrades! Three cheers for
	her now.
And these were the women who went to the war:
The women of question; what did they go for?
Because in their hearts God had planted the seed
Of pity for woe, and help for its need;
They saw, in high purpose, a duty to do,
And the armor of right broke the barriers through.
Uninvited, unaided, unsanctioned ofttimes,
With pass, or without it, they pressed on the lines;
They pressed, they implored, ’till they ran the
	lines through,
And that was the “running” the men saw them
	do.
’Twas a hampered work, its worth largely lost;
’Twas hindrance, and pain, and effort, and cost;
But through these came knowledge,—knowledge
	is power,—
And never again in the deadliest hour
Of war or of peace shall we be so beset
To accomplish the purpose our spirits have met,
And what would they do if war came again?
The scarlet cross floats where all was blank then.
They would bind on their “brassards” and march
	to the fray.
And the man liveth not who could say to them
	nay;
They would stand with you now, as they stood with
	you then,—
The nurses, consolers, and saviors of men. 
						CLARA BARTON.


[column 1]
	EXTRACTS FROM LETTER. 
	ALICE MERRILL HORNE. 
	Since Snnday last we have traveled a 
long way and seen many many strange 
sights. Last Sunday we left Liverpool in 
the morning, landed at London in the even-
ing. This morning we left Brussels and 
and arrived this evening at Cologne. What 
a wonderful change, we like it all. The 
weather has been favorable and we have 
seen things at their best. London smiled 
until we were leaving when she clouded up 
and cried a bit as they say. Oh but the 
National Gallery there fine, fine. I like all 
[column 2]
the great masters. The National Academy 
is so funny. I am proud of our artists for 
the number of canvases we have, I don't
blame Taggart for thinking we make a good 
showing in Utah Art Exhibitions. I feel 
so glad to know how to compare them with 
Eastern, and European artists of today. 
The National Gallery in London has some 
wonderful Rembrandts and Velasquez 
though I like the Boston one better than
any I have seen yet. 
We were interested in the Bank of Lon-
don and London Bridge, and Oh the won-
derful Trafalger square we saw so many 
times, passing over "The Strand." Lud-
gate Hill, Rotten Row, Victoria Street, Pall 
Mall, St. James, etc. Where a number of 
streets come together they call it the cir-
cus, and Ludgate circus. There is much to 
be seen in London. It is a great big world.
We did not go to the Tower. One day we 
rode down the Strand just to see how far 
we could go for one drive on the bus; we 
went 16 miles for 8 cts, and then we were 
tired, but its so interesting to ride on top of
the bus. Dr. Snow seemed pleased to see us 
and met us up town one day. He may join 
us in Paris. The Parliament houses are fine 
looking structures. There were so many 
names familiar from association in reading
various books, such as "Old Curiosity
Shop" "The Horse Guards" &c. 
We left London for Dover and Ostend 
and Brussels, Friday afternoon. Dover is 
picturesque on the high cliffs. The trip
across the channel is beastly, I dread going 
back. As soon as one lands in Holland 
everything looks so different. The houses 
are Dutchy the gardening different, women 
are hoeing and raking with their wooden
shoes on. The windmills are so picturesque,
the houses are low and flat, the gardens are 
scrupulously kept, the trees are tall and
fringey—on either side the fringe grows up 
the tall trunk. Holland reminds me of 
Nebraska country, only the green is more
luxuriant. 
At Brussels we found a beautiful city and 
a grand old Church St. Gudule built in the 
14th. century. There is a woman figure 
with electric lights around her. There are 
statues of all the Apostles. The windows 
are very rare. The Church is built on a hill 
affording a splendid view. The art gallery 
has some fine early Dutch art. Our hotel 
Du Porte was very nice; they served good 
meals; we have been advised to drink no 
water and we are very thirsty. Miss C. is
a good traveler, she does remarkably well; 
we saw the lace making and the real laces; 
they are lovely and very inexpensive here.
We secured some Post cards of Waterloo
field, Churches and museums, left Sunday 
morning after talking, and getting some 
points from two Americans; we found some 
nice people on the way a lady and two chil-
dren French but nice; had the custom's 
official who merely looked in our grips.
Their country roads are a marvel; numbers 
seem to be traveling on bicycles; the chest-
nut and other trees are all in bloom. A
holiday something like Easter is on—flags
everywhere. Old chateaus on the mountain 
or rather hill side are very beautiful, every


foot of the way we have come is beautiful 
from the fields at the edge of Liverpool. I 
am now at the hotel Belgium in Mayence 
or Mentz.
	We arrived last evening and the trip from 
Cologne down to this point has not been 
touched by word-painting, words simply
are of no avail in giving a true representa-
tion of it. 
	Our hotel Disch at Cologne is a beautiful 
old place. At every turn some one waits 
for a tip and they all want so much too. On 
the boat the woman held one end of the 
towel while I used the other waiting for a 
tip. 
	We leave now for Heidleberg on board 
the Augusta Victoria, nothing can compare 
with the Rhine. The Hudson is not to be 
mentioned in connection with it. I hear Tag-
garts are in Paris and will be able to see
them. Tips everywhere until you do not
know where you are at. 
Visited Heidleberg castle today. It is a 
beautiful old place, the deep moat around 
it cannot be seen in the picture, from the 
front can be seen the lovely river, old 
houses, fine flowering trees, universities of 
Heidleberg etc. We met two English ladies 
who went with us for a drive to see the 
places of interest.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


FARMERS WARD RELIEF SOCIETY. 
	I feel it a great pleasure to express my
feelings on this occasion, although it be my 
first attempt, in this line, to write a few 
lines at the departure of our Sister Naomi 
Woodruff from our midst. Co-laborer in 
the missionary work and also in the Relief 
Society. 
We her sisters do sincerely pray that the 
blessings of the Lord may attend her, that 
she may enjoy health and strength during 
her absence from us, and may she meet with 
as warm friends as she has done among her 
neighbors here, and they feeling her influ-
ence for good, may be pricked in their 
hearts to further investigate the principles 
of life and salvation, and glorify their 
Father which is in Heaven, that she may 
fully realize the desires of her heart in 
righteousness, and in connection with her 
husband be the means in the hands of the 
Lord of doing much good. 
We trust Sister Naomi that you realize 
the affection and love that we have for you, 
that feeling of warmth that comes through 
the Spirit of the Gospel that we feel to love 
the honest in heart, throughout the length 
and breadth of the earth, all that truly have
a desire to serve their Maker in purity of 
heart, a love that I had not realized to such 
an extent, until I became a member of the 
Relief Society Sisters; these words express 
the feelings that I wish to portray that do 
exist among our Sisters. 
We feel to wish Brother and Sister Wood-
ruff and family God speed. May they have 
a pleasant time and return in safety. We
shall look forward for that time with pleas-
ure to again greet you, and enjoy your soc-
iety, and our constant prayers will be for 
our associates in the cause of Truth. 
SISTER MAINS.


Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt has been elect-
ed president of the International Suffrage 
League; Dr. Anita Augspurg, of Germany, 
first vice president, and Mrs. Rachel Foster 
Avery of Philadelphia, secretary.


[Column 1]
	MOTHER’S WORK.

	SOUTH SANPETE STAKE.

Lecture 7.—Mother's love and influence

	The influence that the mother has upon
the child before and after birth can not be
estimated. A mother’s love cures the pains
and ills of childhood, soothes the pangs of
youth, comforts and inspires man through
the battles of life. A mother can keep the
confidence of the children by listening to
them while they are small and they will
continue to confide in her when they be-
come larger and by inviting their confidence
she can direct them aright. The desire of
every true mother is to do good in the
world and she can do this best by rearing a
family who are strong, intelligent and God-
fearing. Day by day a mother has the
opportunity of implanting high or low
ideals, true or false ambitions in the child.
A true mother will make a happy home
whether poor or rich Peace, love and con-
tentment come from within and make our
environments. The influence of a mother
upon her family is in proportion to the love
existing between herself and family. Great
men attribute their success to their mother's
influence. Mother love is the sweetest and
purest of all human affections. Do not be
afraid to lavish it upon your children; it
makes your memory a hallowed one and
gives you power to influence their lives.

	QUESTIONS.

	Give examples of the world’s great men
who attribute their success to their mother’s
influence. How can a woman do the most
good in the world? Show why a loving
mother can influence her child more than
any one else.
	C. L. E.

Lecture 8.— What to tell Our Girls.
	It is one thing to possess knowledge, and
quite another thing to impart it to others.
We are told to “instruct our girls,’’ as if it
were the easiest thing in the world to do,
when in reality it is one of the hardest.
	Warn her against vulgar stories she may
hear, and ask her to tell you everything her
playmates tell her. Then you will have a
chance to correct errors, and warn against
impure teachings and harmful associates, as
well as lay a foundation for future confid-
ences and close companionship.
	E. C. D.

Lecture 9.— What to tell Our Boys.
	WHO shall tell them? The fathers should,
in case that fails the mothers must.
	If it is difficult for a mother to talk to her
girl, it is ten times more so for her to talk
to her boy, but for the sake of his health and
life and character, it is just as necessary
that it should be done, though from a some-
what different stand point. Mothers too
often think that the fathers do this import-
ant work and making no inquiries silently
trust that that the son is put on his guard,
and thus trusting the infant becomes a lad,
a youth, and finally a man in ignorance,
and too often in vice and wickedness. Ig-
norance is not innocence, nor is it even a
safeguard. Fathers are busy, and away from
the family a great deal of their time, and it
is a delicate subject, needing more tact and
ingenuity than many men possess. The
mother is at home, and can if she seeks for
it, find the boy in a thoughtful moment,
when all the better qualities and the tender-

[Column 2]
ness of his nature is alert, and if she speaks
at the proper time, all may be well.
	1. Explain the action of work on devel-
oping muscles.
	2. Explain the action of food on muscles
and brain.
	3. Explain the action of tobacco on
muscles and brain.
	4. Explain the action of liquors on
muscles and brain.
	5 Explain the action of tea, coffee and
high seasoned food.
	6. Give a list of food best suited to the
growth of the young.
	7. Show how disease of one part of the
body makes all of the body ill by illustra-
tion.
	8. Show how inflammation of different
parts affect the brain, and what parts of the
body has the strongest effect on the mind.
	E. C. D.

Lecture 10.—Mothers advice to marriage-
able Sons and Daughters.

	Before young people take upon them-
selves the responsibilities of husband and
wife they should understand that there is
no more important step between the cradle
and the grave than marriage, that it is the
proper way for nature to develop self con-
trol, patience, industry, and strengthen all
their virtues, that a true marriage is a per-
fect union of the body and spirit, and that
there are many heavy responsibilities they
will have to carry for their obligations are
not alone to themselves and each other, but
they owe duties to their Creator, to their
fellow beings, and to yet unborn human-
ity.
Here this already overworked, careworn
mother seems to be the only person fully
qualified to talk.  No one else can so fit-
tingly take the blushing girl aside, and
draw from her the confessions of love, the
announcement of the engagement, the plans
for the coming union, and the bright hopes
for her future womanhood. No one like a
mother can approach so near the sacred se-
crets of a son in the early dignity of mature
manhood. And there is no time in the life
of a human being, when they can so readily
be approached, or when they are so anxious
to learn.
	Take then, your hero son, and tell him
of the coming needs for himself and his
wife FINANCIALLY, remind him of the nec-
essity of his keeping within his means, for
debt at the start is succeeded, and often
ended, with privations and vexations innu-
merable.
	Paul says ‘‘he who does not provide for
his own household has already denied the
faith.” Tell him how neatness and care
in all that he does will lighten the labor of
his wife, and increase her respect and tend-
erness for him, and that it is his duty to
shield her from every care and anxiety re-
garding physical wants that he possibly
can. And if necessary explain the suffer-
ing of her body and the strain on her nerves
during the child-bearing period.
	And to the fair young daughter explain
that “wastefulness is wickedness,” and that
a careless wasteful wife can spend and des-
troy anything the best provider can furn-
ish, and have very little to show for it.
Tell her that her happiness and the peace
of her household depends in a great meas-
ure on her economy in food, fuel, furniture
clothes, strength and time. Above all the
accomplishments she should possess, that of
being a really good cook is the most desir-


[Column 1]
able, and to be that, the thing above all 
others that she should know best how to do 
is to bake good bread. 
If good bread is in the house one always 
feels that there is something to eat. 
	QUESTIONS AND SUGGESTIONS.

	1. Why is marriage the most important 
step in life? 
2. How does it develop self control, pa-
tience, industry?
	3. Name other virtues improved by it.
	4. Name duties married people owe to 
the Lord, to humanity. 
5. Explain how love makes people more 
pliable.
	6. What do you think of young men 
giving presents to girls? 
7 What do you think of expensive 
weddings and their effects? 
8. Why should the husband relieve his 
wife of financial cares?
	9. Illustrate how a wife can economise,
food, fuel, clothes, time strength, and
furniture.
	10. Give a short talk on bread making. 
E. C. D. 
Lecture 11 — With the children on Sunday. 
"Remember the sabbath day and keep it 
Holy." 
THE BEST DAY OF THE WEEK—Have
this day different from other days Have a 
box of Sunday playthings. Little children 
enjoy putting away their other toys on Sat-
urday evening almost as much as getting 
out the toys Sunday morning.
	If you hear or read a story suited to the 
Sabbath keep it for that day. 
	PLAYTHINGS FOR THE SUNDAY BOX.—

	Building blocks, Noah’s Ark, kindergar-
ten blocks, colored pencils, Bible games or 
any thing that will entertain a child in a 
quiet way. Children must have something 
to employ them, even if it is Sunday. 
	TEACH THEM TO THINK OF OTHERS 
ON SUNDAY.—A quiet drive or a walk in 
the country with parents are all in harmony
with the day. Let them gather flowers for 
some old lady, autumn leaves for a sick 
friend or berries for a playmate.
	Let them cut pictures and make a scrap-
book for little friends, etc. Hallow all 
these pastimes with loving thoughts of the 
dear Father in Heaven who wants us to be 
kind to His other children who are poor, 
sick or neglected.

	CHURCH DUTIES--Encourage the chil-
dren to help mother so she may visit the 
Sabbath School and be interested in the 
work. Take time to ask about the teacher 
listen to the little lesson.
	After the evening meal, that all have 
helped prepare, mother may read stories 
from the Bible, Book of Mormon and teach 
many beautiful lessons from good pictures. 
Teach the Books of the Bible and where 
to find them. 
After the story encourage discussion.
Sing with the children hymns and songs 
suited to the day. Make Sundays at home 
delightful to look upon in after years. 
M. L. G. 
Lecture 12.—Kindergarten work at Home. 

	“Come let us live with our children"-
Froebel. 

[Column 2]
	Mothers who live at a distance from a
Kindergarten may find some occupation,
in the Kindergarten “gifts and occupa-
ions” to help them in training their chil-
dren at home. 
	THE FIRST GIFT presented to baby 
when he begins to observe is the ball A set 
of six colored balls, blue, yellow, red, green 
orange and purple. The child learns color
form, motion and many little helpful 
games. Exercise the faculty of “make-
believe,” which is the dearest delight to 
the child.

	THE SECOND GIFT is a wooden sphere, 
cylinder and cube. These also are made 
the medium of many simple games in which 
the child is kept active.

	THE THIRD, FOURTH, FIFTH, AND 
SIXTH GIFTS are what we should most all 
call “blocks.” They are all cubes differ-
ently divided into smaller cubes oblong
blocks, half and quarter cubes of various 
sizes. By this means the child is able to 
divide his old friend, the cube, into its com-
pound parts and study them. 
	THE SEVENTH GIFT is a number of 
square and triangular tablets of wood of 
different colors, by which plain surfaecs 
may be represented. They show the differ-
ent kinds of triangles. These may be 
made from card-board.

	THE EIGHTH AND NINTH GIFTS are 
slats unfolding like a carpenters rule to be 
used in interlacing or weaving.

	THE TENTH GIFT is a number of round 
or square sticks about as thick as a match.
Questions are asked where they come from,
leading up to the different kinds of wood,
etc. These teach deftness to the little fin-
gers as nicety of touch is required to lay 
different forms. Tooth-picks can be used 
in the home at five cents per 1000.

	THE ELEVENTH GIFT consists of whole 
and half wire rings. Like the sticks they 
are used to teach form and give the little 
pupil a glimpse of the powers and proper-
ties of curved lines.

	THE TWELFTH GIFT, the thread game, 
is neither more nor less than the immortal
“cat’s cradle” put to new uses. The chil-
dren are taught to tie various knots, and 
after dampening the thread to arrange with 
a pointer in different forms on a slate ruled 
in squares, accustoming them to measure 
distances with the eyes. 
	THE THIRTEENTH GIFT is embodied in 
seeds, shells, pebbles, beads, etc., which are 
arranged on a strip af oil-cloth divided into 
squares to form designs. The child is also 
exercised in sorting the different materials 
into heaps or groups.
	Nothing permanent is made with the 
gifts they are dissolved into their original
parts.

	OCCUPATIONS.

	THE FIRST OCCUPATION is perforating 
or pricking. Designs are pricked on a card
board.
	THE SECOND OCCUPATION is sewing.
Sew the designs that have been pricked 
with colored thread. 
THE THIRD is a slate grooved in squares 
for drawing.
	THE FOURTH is coloring and painting. 
	THE FIFTH OCCUPATION, paper inter 
lacing, making pretty designs. 

[Column 3]
	THE SIXTH OCCUPATION, is the art of 
weaving, the warp and woof being both of 
paper.
	THE SEVENTH OCCUPATION, paper fold-
ing, producing many beautiful forms.
	THE EIGHTH is the paper mounting, 
permitting the free use of the blunt scissors, 
which every child loves.
	THE NINTH OCCUPATION, pea, or cork
work, requires soaked peas or corks and 
with the tooth pick many forms and objects 
can be represented. 
THE TENTH OCCUPATION, card board 
modelling, begins with simplest forms, a 
little square box for instance, gradually in-
creasing in difficulty until sets of furniture 
are made. 
THE ELEVENTH OCCUPATION, model-
ling in wax or clay. He begins by model-
ling sticks and er ds with greater things.
	“Clay is the work of the child”
	“We learn through doing.”
	Froebel.
	M. L. G.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS 1904-5. 
	The above class will commence Sept.
19th, 1904, continuing eight months. Four 
lessons a week will be given by Dr. Mar-
garet C. Roberts, the Class Instructor, and 
lectures by other physicians and surgeons 
of Salt Lake. There will also be a course 
of lectures on cooking and other important 
subjects connected with the nurse profession 
by members of the General Board of the 
Relief Society or by those whom they may
appoint.
	Charges for tuition $10.00.
	Students will purchase their own text 
books designated by the class Instructor.
	The students shall each sign a contract 
to nurse for charity for seventy-five days or 
whatever pay shall be designated by the 
superintendent for two-years from the date 
of graduation.
	Any one desiring to take the nurse course 
and not paid for by the Relief Society of 
her ward may do so by paying the ten dol-
lar fee herself and signing the contract All 
correspondence on this subject should be 
addressed to Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, 55 N. 
West Temple Street. 
EMMA A EMPEY, 
Superintendent Relief Society NurseClasses.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	The newly elected officers of the Inter-
national Council of Women are: President,
Countess of Aberdeen; first vice president
Frau Maria Stritt of Dresden; second vice-
president, Mme. Jewel Siegfried of Paris;
third vice-president, Frau Retzius of Stock-
holm; treasurer, Mrs. William Sanford
of Toronto; corresponding secretary, Miss
Gordon of Scotland; recording secretary,
Miss Kramer of Holland. It is announced
that the next Quinquennial International
Council will be held in Toronto, Canada.

	Mme. Emma Calve has founded a sani-
tarium at Cabrieres, France, where sixty
young girls who need fresh air and medical
attendance will be received every summer,
all expenses being borne by the singer.

	A little pamphlet entitled “The Left
Wing” has just appeared, full of useful and
impartial information about the various
branches of the woman movement in Ger-
many:


WOMAN'S EXPONENT

Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS. Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year $1.00; one copy six months.
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel 
space one time $2.50; per month. $3.00. A liberal dis-
unt to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple 
Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every 
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
second-class matter.

	SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH, JUNE, 1904


[Column 1]
THIRTY-THIRD VOLUME.
	This number of the paper opens the 
thirty-third year of the WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT, and one cannot help feeling there is 
some prestige attached to a woman’s paper
that has stood so long for the best princi-
ples of right and righteousness. For the 
work of women along all lines that are 
really uplifting, no one can deny, if careful
investigation is made of what the paper ad-
vocates, that this is true.
	The women correspondents who contrib-
ed largely and often to its contents in the 
earlier volumes have many of them passed 
behind the veil, and some have perhaps 
grown weary of writing. In mentioning
the names who did much to make a success 
of the undertaking we must of course pay
the first tribute to Louisa L. Greene Rich-
ards (then Miss Greene) the first editor;
she is still prominent in literary work,
but more for the children in the Juvenile 
Instructor, and seems especially adapted to 
that line of work, which so few men, or 
women are qualified for.
	Our beloved poet, Eliza R. Snow, comes
next in this case How we all miss her 
brave, inspiring words! We can never be 
too grateful for her help in literary and or-
ganized work for women.
	Hannah T. King, every one will recall 
her prose as well as poetry. Mary Ellen
Kimball, who wrote such sweet and humble
testimonies of the Gospel and the Book of 
Mormon. Wilmirth East, who stood so 
strongly for woman’s enfranchisement, and 
Mary Ann Pratt, who reasoned log-
ically on principles of the Gospel, and our 
own Emily H. Woodmansee, who gave us 
so much real, sound doctrine in her origin-
al poems, and who still lives, though we
see and hear very little of her through the 
EXPONENT; now and then she wakes up to 
the occasion.
	Augusta J. Crocheron, who has written
volumes of poetry and prose. We are often
asked, “What has become of her?’’ She
too must have grown weary, though she 
has done such good work in the past and 
so much of it.
	There was one called "Hope," she is 
still living somewhere in Mexico, laboring 
hard in the Gospel field, we are told. She 
must be still in the prime of life and some-
time we may hear from her again.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp occasionally contri-
butes yet, and we are always glad to hear
from her, and Lydia D. Alder has done

[Column 2]
much towards helping the paper along—
she is now in Germany and might give us
some spicy "write ups" of the Quinquen-
nial.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt, who was once on 
our list of contributors, seems to have for-
gotten all about it in her busy life for hu-
manity.
	Annie Wells Cannon, with her large
family of little folks and many household
cares, finds time to give an occasional story 
or poem at Christmas time, and now that 
she is doing double duty in other ways 
with the Pioneer Stake of Zion, we can
hardly expect very much from her, al-
though the more one does the greater ca-
pacity one has for doing
	We are all busy women in this Church,
but we must necessarily do a great deal of 
thinking, and ought to give expression to 
the best thoughts we have for the benefit of
others who need it, or who may profit by it 
in days to come, for what “is written re-
mains,” and is on record.
	The WOMAN'S EXPONENT is preserved,
and it is precious to those who have an inter-
est in woman's work. President Young was 
anxious the sisters should not only take
the paper, but take care of it, for ‘it would
be,” he said, the “record of their lives and
work,’’.and this is true, and all who ex-
amine its pages know it contains much
useful information on many subjects and 
would help the young mothers in their 
homes, if they would read it with under-
standing hearts. It certainly ought not to
lack for support to make it more regular 
and better worthy of the appreciation it de-
serves; if the sisters could only realize its 
importance they would not neglect to speak
of it in their meetings, and urge its main-
tenance.


[Column 1]
A DECADE OF SERVICE.
	Everybody knows the name of Lucy
Stone; throughout the length and breadth
of this land, and even lands afar off, her
name has become a household word be-
cause of her great work for woman and
for humanity. Her daughter, Miss Alice
Stone Blackwell, has followed in her moth-
er’s footsteps and with the larger oppor-
tunity afforded woman now a-days, may
even accomplish greater things.
	At Fanueil Hall, Boston, on May 30, a
banquet was given by the Armenians in
honor of Miss Blackwell, because of the
loving service she had rendered to that
oppressed people for ten years. She was
presented on this occasion with a beauti-
ful life-sized portrait of herself, painted
by an Armenian artist. The portrait was
covered with American and Armenian
flags, and placed in the center of the dec
orated platform of the hall. About two
hundred Armenians and a sprinkling of
Americans sat down to an excellent supper
enlivened by music.” Archbishop Hovsef
Seradjian gave the “grace” at table. Two
little Armenian children unveiled the por-
trait after the banquet, and the audience
applauded warmly. The Archbishop read
a document in Armenian which was trans-
lated by Rev. Dr. Theodore Isaac, and set
forth in glowing terms the indefatigable
labors and sympathy of Miss Blackwell
during the days of dire suffering and afflic-
tion that came upon that persecuted race.
It is quite impossible to tell what this
young woman has done, but in the study
of their literature she has enriched her

[Column 2]
own fertile mind and brain and enlightened
the world on their question. After learn-
ing the language Miss Blackwell translated
into English verse sixty Armenian poems.
These represent a variety of authors, and
she has receiv d many congratulatory
news notices from the best papers in the
United States. Frances Willard said: “These
poems reveal as by a search-light the deep-
est qualities of the Armenian character.
They show forth an ingrained heroism and
an ardent aspiration worthy of the martyr
people of this so-called Christian century.
No generous man or woman can read them
without instinctively desiring to send help
to a people capable of thoughts so lofty
and sentiments so tender.”
	It was a fitting time to choose for such a
commemoration—and Miss Blackwell in
her response to the address made in the
presentation said: “Decoration Day which
we are keeping all over the country, began
forty years ago in memory and sorrow over
the dead  *  *  *  We meet today under
sorrowful circumstances We had all our
hearts wrung yesterday by reading of the
slaughter of the inhabitants of forty-three
Armenian villages. It does not seem like
a time for feasting or rejoicing, but rather
for all of us to be sad.” *   *
	The toastmaster of the occasion in intro-
ducing the next speaker, said: We have
no king in this country, but we have a
queen and she is with us tonight—Mrs.
Julia Ward Howe”
	Mrs. Howe, in opening her address, said:
“I am almost as much overpowered as Miss
Blackwell, who said that she might have to
hide under the table. If I were young and
active, I think I shouid myself execute
such a manoeuvre.”
	Mrs. Howe was followed by Mrs. Mary A.
Livermore, who had driven from Melrose,
eight miles in the rain to be present.
	Mrs. Howe is eighty-five years of age,
Mrs. Livermore eighty-four. Both these
women had done very much for the Ar-
menian cause and related many experi-
ences.
	The other speakers were Isabel C Bar-
rows, William Loyd Garrison, Henry B.
Blackwell and Prof. Wm G. Ward. Prof.
Ward spoke of the American battleships
then in the Mediterranean and urged that
petitions be sent to Secretary John Hay,
asking him to have these ships used to
overcome the Sultan and in connection
with other powers to put an end to the Ar-
menian atrocities.”
	The entire proceedings were full of inter-
est, music, poetry and song, all significant
of gratitude
	A flashlight photograph was taken at 
the table—the Archbishop at the head,
Mrs. Howe next, Mrs. Livermore close by.
The Archbishop and Dr. Isaac, in the dark,
flowing robes of the Armenian clergy, with
“ecclesiastical jewels on their breasts,”
but were still more adorned by their mag-
nificient beards worn after the fashion of
the Eastern lands.


BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.
	The birthday anniversary of the great
leader, pioneer and president. Brigham 
Young, which occurs June first, was ob-
served this year with an immense gathering 
of relatives and friends in the G anite Stake
house. This celebrated man was born June 
1, 1801, and would therefore have been one 
hundred and three years old were he living.


The gathering in his honor this year was 
quite as elaborate as on any former occasion,
and the spirit that prevailed throughout all
the exercises was calculated,to impress those 
who participated with the lofty character 
and magnanimity of the man to whom Utah
owes so much in her settlement, develop-
ment and enterprise.
	The tables were prepared for between 
four and five hundred guests and beautifully
decorated with flowers,and filled with the best 
the earth affords to tempt the appetite and 
add to the social enjoyment of the occasion.
	At the head of the first table the First 
Presidency af the Church were seated, Pres-
idents Joseph F Smith, John R. Winder
and Anthon H. Lund, Apostles F. M. Ly-
man and Rudger Clawson and ladies, with 
the nearest representatives of the famous 
Young family, Dr. Seymour B. Young and 
several sons of President Young, also his 
eminent graudson, Richard W. Young, and
many members of the illustrious family, 
Sisters Naamah Twiss, Lucy B., Eliza B.,
and Amelia F. Young surviving wives of 
President Brigham Young. It is quite im-
possible to mention all those who are en-
titled to place in the roll of honor, as there 
were so many whose names are familiar and 
dear to the people,that it is quite impossible 
to do justice to so large a subject in such 
limited space.
	President Joseph F. Smith paid a glow-
ing tribute to the memory of Brother Young
as did also his counselors, and Elder R. W.
Young responded happily, after which the 
guests rose and the clearing up began ready 
for the program and evening entertainment.
There was excellent music, a variety of 
songs and recitations, and later on dancing,
all of which was most enjoyable. Every-
thing passed off pleasantly and it was cer-
tainly one of the most satisfactory anniver-
saries that has been celebrated, as the house
itself is well adapted to large gatherings.
There are always some vacancies each year
and this time Apostle Brigham Young was 
missing.
	"To every man upon the earth.
	Death cometh soon or late."
	Others were missing, too, daughters and 
grandchildren and so each year some go 
and others are added to the role.
	The name and memory of Brigham 
Young can never die, for his works praise 
him throughout these mountain vales.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A HAPPY BIRTHDAY PARTY.
	The seventy fifth anniversary of the 
birthday of Sister Hannah C. Wells was 
celebrated at the residence of her son, Elder 
Junius F. Wells,on Thursday, June 9,with
a party of her old friends. The handsome 
parlors and hall were beautfully decorated 
with lovely flowers and vines, and the wel-
come extended by Mrs Junius F. Wells 
and members of the family was most gen-
uine and warm hearted. The meeting of 
friends of other days, many of whom had 
known Sister Wells in her girlhood, was a
very pleasant feature of the occasion. Rem-
iniscences and incidents of travel and famil-
iar intercourse were exceedingly interesting,
and conversation flowed free and easy.
	A sumptuous repast was served on small 
tables of three and four, and the company 
were delightfully waited upon by the
nieces and granddaughters of the honored 
guest of the day. Among the guests were
Presidents Joseph F. Smith, John R. Win-


der and Anthon H. Lund, Apostle F. M.
Lyman and Hon. W. W Riter.
	Sisters over eighty years of age were 
Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith and Rachel R.
Grant; besides these were many other vet-
eran sisters—Sisters Lucy W. and Amanda
G. Kimball, Sisters Margaret P , Eliza B. 
and Amelia F. Young, Sisters Margaret Y.
Taylor and Catherine C. Young and many
more.
	After the tables were removed there were
some informal exercises, a poem composed 
and read by Mrs. E B Wells in honor of the 
birthday of Mrs. Hannah C. Wells; a brief 
sketch of her life and testimony of the Gos-
pel, prepared and read by her son Junius;
after which congratulatory remarks were 
made by Presidents Joseph F. Smith, J. R.
Winder, A. H. Lund, Apostle F.M Lyman,
and Hon. W. W. Riter, also by Sisters B.
W. Smith, Lucy W. Kimball and others;
to these expressions of love and esteem
Sister Wells responded tactfully and gra-
ciously, and the entire affair was very hap-
py and enjoyable. Much praise is due to 
the able management of the host and host 
ess, who gave such pleasure to the veteran
mother in Israel as well as to her dear 
friends and associates.
	Sister Wells was the recipient of a num-
ber of valuable gifts, and these in them-
selves were but trifles compared to the love
and friendship of a lifetime The partings 
from each other at such times seems all too
soon, and many were the kind wishes and 
happy returns of the day given at the de-
parture of the guests wh n the hour for 
leave-taking arrived


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		UINTAH STAKE.

	The Relief Society conference of the
Uintah stake was held March 4, 1904,
President Sarah Pope presiding After the 
usual exercises and reading of minutes, etc,
President Pope made a few remarks, urg-
ing the sisters to be more regular in attend-
ing the conference to obtain instruction in 
reference to the duties in their own Society 
work
	Elder Jamas Hacking asked the Lord to
bless the sisters, that they might realize 
their true position on the ear[-]h.
	Reports were given by the respective 
presidents of Maeser and Glines wards and 
the morning meeting adjourn[-]d until 2 p m.
Benediction by President Sarah Pope.
	Afternoon session was opened by singing,
and prayer was offered by Patriarch Merk-
ley. After singing and reading of minutes
the general and local officers of the society, 
wero presented and the statistical and fin-
ancial reports of the stake w[-]re read.
Reports of Jenson, Naples, Dry Fork and 
Vernal were made by the presidents.
	President Samuel R. Bennion, of the
Uintah stake, addressed the sisters. He was 
pleased to hear the sisters had so much 
wheat and real estate, and gave them some 
good instruction in regard to their wheat 
	Patriarch Merkley also spoke of the good 
reports and of unity, and that we should 
be the happiest people on the earth.
	Counselor A K. Bartlett warned the sis-
ters against evil speaking and passing
judgment on matters with which they had
no concern, but spend their time studying 
the principles of the Gospel, and be dili-
gent in their duties at home and in the
society.

[Column 2]
	Sister Abigail Oaks wondered how the 
sisters could afford to miss these meetings,
thought we should strive to say something 
good of every one. Sister Nancy S. Colton
spoke of the mother’s work; felt it was a 
fine thing to help mothers in raising their 
children. President Pope was pleased with
the larger attendance in the afternoon, but
knew that if all the sisters attended, the 
house would be full. She made a few clos-
ing remarks and adjourned the conference 
for six months; singing, benediction by 
Counselor Elthurah Collett.
	ADDIE LONGHURST, Secretary.
		SAN JUAN STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the San
Juan stake was held in the Relief Society
hali, Bluff ward, May 7, 1904, President
Mary N. Jones presiding. After singing,
prayer was offered by Sister Adelia Lyman,
followed by singing, then President Jones 
addressed the meeting, reported her labors
in the stake; she had visited the several
wards and found them in good condition.
Six of the branches were reported by their
respective presidents; all were doing a good 
work.
	Counselor Priscilla Warner spoke of the 
Society as a grand organization, thought 
each one should perform every duty and 
requirement in the Gospel. desired to do 
her full duty as a stake officer and at all 
times.
	President Jones was pleased with the 
reports, and referred to the mothers’ work
and the good to be derived if the plan given 
in the WOMAN’S EXPONENT would be car-
rried out; wished all the sisters to have 
family worship in the home; related what 
Apostle Cowley had said and the promises 
he made, that if we would attend to this 
our children would not depart from the 
Gospel; felt we shouid be more diligent in 
caring for our little ones and guard our sons 
and daughters carefully, for if we neglect 
them it will only prove to our sorrow;
wished the sisters living in a grain district
to make special effort to store wheat. The
general and stake officers of the Relief So-
ciety were unanimously sustained. Singing,
benedic ion by Sister Josephine C. Wood.
		LUCINDA REDD, Secretary.
			EMERY STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Emery
stake was held at Price, May 24, 1904,
Counselor Maria Guyman presiding. After 
singing, prayer was offered by Sister Anna 
Miller. Ten of the Society branches of the 
stake were represented as in good condition,
temporally and spiritually.
	President Mary A. Sorenson welcomed all
to the conference, including the stake pres-
idency and visiting sisters from the General
Board—Sisters Elizabeth J. Stevenson and 
Carrie S. Thomas; she also read letters from
Sisters Pulsipher and Shipp in answer to 
presents sent them from the stake; reported
the condition of the Society work in the 
stake as flourishing both spiritually and fi-
nancially.
	Verbal reports were given by Sisters R.
E. Robertson of Orangeville, Henrietta Hill
of Wellington and Jane Williams of Emery,
which were encouraging. Lecture on 
Motherhood by Maria Christensen of Cleve-
land, which was an able effort and well 
rendered. Sister E. J. Stevenson spoke on 
the organization of the Relief Society by 
the Prophet Joseph Smith, also spoke upon


[Column 1]
the great mission of motherhood and re-
ferred to many other subjects—parliamen-
tary usage, pu[-]ctuality, the teachers, their
mission, temple work, storing grain. Morn-
ing session closed with prayer by Sister
Caroline Robb.
	Afternoon session. Prayer was offered
by Elder J. A. Williams; the general and
and local officers of the Society were sus-
tained. Verbal reports were given by Sis-
ters Tidwell of Sunnyside, Alice Whimpey
of Cleveland and Esther Grange of Hunt-
ington. Instrumental music by Jean
Leonard of Huntington. Sister Jane C.
Seeley of Mt. Pleasant spoke of seeing the
Prophet Joseph Smith and the persecutions
of the Saints. Sister Jane C. Peterson of
Castledale spoke of the nobility of mother
hood and that we should appreciate the
blessings we receive today. Song rendered
by Anna Miller, “Sunshine in your heart
today.”
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas spoke upon
mother’s work and education, she also re-
lated a story to illustrate her subject;
said the world was improving and so should
we.
	Sister Pauline Pace reported the Price
Society, its condition and work. Sister
E. Lamson announced the Primary con-
ference to convene May 25. President R.
G. Miiller congratu ated the Relief Society
on having the best teachers in the Church,
eulogized the labors of the stake officers,
and blessed them and the good work.
	President Mary A. Sorenson suggested
that the Relief Society have scales and
weigh the wheat that is loaned, that they
may have justice; announced an evening
meeting and that Sister Stevenson would
remain and talk to them. Benediction by
President John A. Pace.
	At the evening session Sisters King of
Ferron, Allen of Castledale and Hitchcock
of Clawson wards, reported.
	Sister Stevenson occupied the remainder
of the evening in speaking upon the Relief
Society, her acquaintance with the leaders
of the Church, and her recent visit to the
Indian school in Arizona and the Relief
Society in Mexico.
	MARY A. SORENSON, President.

MALAD STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Malad
stake was held at Riverside May 19, 1904.
President Julia A. Richards presiding. Af-
ter opening exercises, seven branches of
the Society were reported by their respec-
tive presidents; all said to be in excellent
condition. Statistical and financial report
of the Society for the year 1903 was read
and accepted, A few opening remarks
were made by President Richards welcom-
ing the visiting brethren and sisters and
expressing her pleasure in the great and
noble work of the organization.
	Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson, repre-
sentative from the General Board dwelt
upon a variety of subjects connected
with Woman’s Work, and mentioned the
recent purchase of the land of the Temple
site in Jackson County, Missouri.
	Stake Counselor Eliza V. Ward and Sec-
retary Josie S. Kennard bore testimony to
the importance of Relief Society work, and
felt to do their share in the same.
	Elder Jesse Dodge talked of the need of
storing grain in time of plenty; thought
the young mothers were the ones that
should be interested in the Mother’s Work.
Singing, benediction by L. H. Kennard,
Sen.

[Column 2]
	Afternoon session at 2 p. m., opened by
singing and prayer, roll call, minutes, etc.
Remainder of the wards represented as in
good working order. Treasurer Ella S.
Capener gave a talk on outlines of Mother’s
Work.
	Sister Stevenson spoke upon home build-
ing, the early days of the Saints here in the
valley, counseled the sisters to have houses
of their own in which to hold their meet-
ings, spoke also of union and the nurse
class, thought we should have plenty of
trained nurses for the sick in our midst,
gave much good advice on family affairs
and the mission of women in saving souls,
and talked on the Mother’s Work.
	Stake President M. H. Welling spoke on
Mother’s Work and home-building. Presi-
dent Richards made closing remarks and
thanked all that had assisted in making the
conference successful. Benediction by
Bishop William Price of Samaria
	After the close of the conference the
visitors were taken by Bishop Myron J.
Richards to visit the Garland sugar factory,
and all expressed themselves as having had
a good time.
JOSIE L. KENNARD, Sec’y.

MARICOPA STAKE.

	The R. S. conference of MaricopaStake was
held at Mesa, June 2, 1904, President Mabel
A. Hakes presiding. After the usual open-
ing exercises, President Hakes addressed
the sisters, giving them a hearty welcome 
and then called for reports from the several
wards in the stake. Three out of five were
doing fairly well, two had been discon-
tinued on account of deaths, and one the
president had moved away. Considerable
wheat had been stored, average attendance
was good, and the teachers as a rule were
active in their duties. They have a lecture
from the Doctrine and Covenants each tes-
timony meeting, and had begun to see the
good results of the same.
	All the stake had not been visited this
time on account of sickness.
	President Colins R. Hakes was pleased
to hear of the good that had been done to
so many poor and sick and those in need of
encouragement. Bishop J. M. Horne spoke
of care of the mind and the body in humili-
ty for the work to be performed. Several
sisters spoke on missionary work, Mother’s
Work and influence in the home circle.
	Afternoon session was better attended,
and after the usual exercises, the Spirit of
the Lord was made manifest, and many en-
couraging words were spoken. Primary
work, punctuality, the effect of children’s
prayers, Relief Society work a labor of
love, and when all are united much can be
accomplished. The Lamanite mission not
reported, was greatly regretted as that is
truly a labor of love. Conference adjourned
for three months, feeling we had truly a
spiritual feast.
ANNA E. FULLER, Sec’y.

LIBERTY STAKE.

	The first Relief Society conference of the
Liberty Stake convened June 4, 1904, at 2
p. m. in the Second ward meetinghouse,
President Annie S. Musser presiding.
meeting opened by singing “Our God we
raise to Thee,” prayer by President Eliza-
beth H. Paul of the Tenth ward. Singing
“Come, come ye Saints.”
	After a hearty welcome by President
Musser the presidents of the several wards

[Column 3]
in the stake gave verbal reports, showing
all to be in a flourishing condition.
	Counselor Mary E. Hodgson presented
the names of the general officers of the Re-
lief Society and of Liberty Stake; all were
unanimously sustained.
	Sister Maggie Hull rendered a solo
which was a pleasing feature of the meet-
ing.
	Counselor Zerviah Eardley gave some good
advice, thought it was God’s chosen daugh-
ters who worked in the Relief Society;
urged all to be humble and prayerful and
the Lord would bless them.
	Sister Louisiana Heppler, President of
the Primary Associations, Sevier Stake for
twenty-five years, spoke beautifully to the
sisters, felt the Spirit of the Lord was in
the meeting, encouraged the young moth-
ers to attend the Relief Society, thought
the Prophet Joseph blessed the sisters by
organizing this society. The speaker said
happiness comes from within and we could
make our homes, if only a cottage, the hap-
piest place on earth. Sister Maggie Hull
thought we were working in a good cause,
and we would receive great blessings. Sister
Emma Empey spoke at some length about
the Relief Society nurses class.
	President Musser was well pleased with the
conference and thanked all the sisters who
had helped to make it a success, adjourned
the conference for three months, after sing-
ing “O, say what is truth,” benediction by
Counselor Mary E. Hodgson.
LIZZIE ROBBINS, Asst. Sec’y.


6					WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.
	In memory of Sister Isabella Sharp Carlisle who
departed this life March 29, 1904, at her home in
Mill Creek. She was born in Mission, England,
December 21, 1832, embraced the Gospel in 1850,
and emigrated to Utah in 1851. She was the
mother of 13 children, six have preceded her to
the spirit world, she leaves five sons and two
daughters, all faithful Latter-day Saints.
	Sister Carlisle was one of the first to join the
Relief Society when it was organized in the ward
in 1868, and she was a great support to it financi-
ally.
	She was presiding teacher in the third district,
which position she held up to the time of her
death; she was faithful in the discharge of her
duties, and was one who could be depended upon;
her sympathy was always extended to the poor
and oppressed, and one on whom they could rely
for aid. She was first counselor in the Primary
Association, third district, twenty-one years; she
was a wise and efficient one to whom you could
always turn for counsel. She was honorably re- 
leased by Bishop James C. Hamilton. The writer
has been a friend and neighbor of Sister Carlisle
since the year 1857, and in all the changing scenes
of life has always found her true and faithful, do-
ing her utmost for the good of the Society in
which she was well loved and respected. Fare-
well, dear sister, a crown of glory awaits you pre-
pared for the righteous.
	The funeral services were held in the Mill Creek
Ward house, where a large concourse of friends
met to pay their last respects to their co-laborer in
the work of the Lord, Bishop Hamilton presiding.
The speakers paid a high tribute to her exemplary
life and conduct. The singing was very impres-
sive and sweet, the decorations of the house, the
floral emblems all were in perfect harmony; many
sorrowing relatives and friends followed the re-
mains to the Mill Creek cemetery.

	It is our sad duty to record the death of our dear
and gifted Sister Clara E. S. Carlisle, daughter of
John F. and Elizabeth Snedaker and beloved wife
of Francis D. Carlisle. She was born in Mill
Creek ward October 1, 1870, and departed this life
May 4, 1904 She leaves a husband, three children,
mother, brothers, sisters and a host of friends to
mourn her loss. Sister Clara had been afflicted
with rheumatism for several years but no one
thought the end was so near. She had borne her


trials with so much fortitude and patience. She
lived an exemplary life, devoted to home and to 
the work of the Lord. 
	She was a graduate of the University, Salt Lake
City, and was a successful school teacher. She
was secretary in the Sabbath school, also presi-
dent of the Y. L. Association of the ward for a
number of years. Afterward she was called to act
as aid in the Y. L Association of the Salt Lake
Stake which position she held until sickness
caused her to resign. She was appointed to the
office of treasurer in the Relief Society. October
1, 1901, and held the office at the time of her
death. In all of  these duties she was faithful
and true to her duty, nothing we can say will
enhance her character for she was known as a
pure and noble woman, and she has gone to re-
ceive her reward.
	Funeral services were held in the Mill Creek
ward house, Bishop Hamilton presiding The
speakers paid a high tribute to her worth as a true
Latter-day Saint, consoling remarks were made
to the bereaved husband, who feels the loss very
keenly, being away from home at the time of her
death, also to the relatives and friends.
	The singing was beautifully impressive, con-
ducted by Brother Cornwall. The decorations
were all in perfect harmony, the floral offerings all
spoke of the love and respect of the dear departed
one. There was a large concourse of friends pres-
ent and many followed the remains to the ceme-
tary where Sister Clara was laid away to await
the resurrection of the righteous.
			MARY B. HAMILTON, Prest.,
			FRANCES H. HANSON, Sec’y.

	Died at Hatch, Bannock County, Idaho, May
16, 1904, Sister Caroline Detton, Counselor in our
Relief Society. Sister Detton was the daughter
of Michel Anderson and Anna M. Nielson. She
was born at Augusta, Denmark, February 23,
1852, and came to Utah in 1870,—was baptized Oc-
tober 16, 1870. Was married to John Detton July
31, 1871. She was aged 52 years, 2 months and 23
days. She leaves besides her husband four sons
and eight daughters, a fifth son having died in
infancy many years ago. Her life was well
worthy of emulation, as she was a woman always
wise and discreet and tried to do all in her power
to forward the Latter-day work. She was a dutiful
wife, a kind and affectionate mother and a true
friend.

		RELOLUTIONS OF RE

	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call from our midst our worthy and beloved sister
and co-laborer, Caroline Detton, therefore be it
	Resolved, That we strive to emulate her devo-
tion to her home, her purity and honesty of pur-
pose, and her faith in the Gospel of Jesus Christ.
	Resolved, That we extend our heartfelt sympa-
thy to the stricken husband and family, and sin-
cerely hope our Heavenly Father will send the
comforting influence of the Holy Spirit to heal
the wounded spirits of those who are called to
mourn.
	Resolved, That a coppy of these resolutions be
sent to THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT and a copy of
them be sent to her family.
				CHRISTINA HIGGINSON.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


ITEMS FROM BERLIN.
	We have published some extracts from
Mrs. Horne’s letter in her travels toward
Berlin and wish we could give more par-
ticulars of the congress than the election of
officers but at this writing it is all we have
except from a postal dated June 15. Mrs.
Horne states she is to speak on the 17th,
and 18th in the Congress and she mentions
Mrs. Emily S. Richards and Mrs. Ida S.
Dusenberry as having reached there.
	Letters from Charlotte Perkins Gilman
and Rev. Anna H. Shaw in the Boston
Woman’s Journal contain some spicy para-
graphs and we quote here concerning
“Susan B.” Mrs. Gilman says in her let-
ter from the steamer going over, “Our
grand old woman has been on deck every
day of the trip, has not missed a meal, and
her sister Mary Anthony is with her in vig-
or and cheerfulness.”
	Miss Shaw writing from Berlin says:
“You will realize how well Miss Anthony


is when I tell you that at Bremen the day
after we landed she was able to take a long
drive, and attend a reception given by the
Woman’s Council and make an address.
The following day she came to Berlin, set-
tled in her hotel and on the folowing morn-
ing was up early for the opening of the
Suffrage Conference. She presided all the
time except Friday afternoon. On Satur-
day she called the meeting to order at 9 a.
m. and presided with only a lunch intermis-
sion till 5.30 p. m., then took a drive for
two hours, and attended the reception from
8.30 to 11 p. m. and said she was not
tired.


The meeting of the International Coun-
cil of Women closed on the afternoon of
June 18 with an enormous crowd.
	“The Philharmonic Hall was overfilled,
and a large overflow meeting was held in
an adjacent hall, where the speeches made
in the Philharmonic Hall were repeated.
The leading speaker in the main hall was
Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman, who dis-
cussed Prof. Lester F. Ward’s theory of the
biological origin of sex. Mrs. Gilman
turned the theory to account, discussing in
brilliant way the relations between the
sexes of to-day, claiming that society will
not be perfect till women participate in all
human interests equally with men. Helene
Lange discussed the ultimate aims of the
woman movement. Lady Aberdeen, pres-
ident of the International Council, cordially
thanked the German organizers for the
splendid success of the congress. Frau
Marie Stritt, of Dresden, president of the
German league, declared the congress ad-
journed, amid a scene of great enthusiasm.
The American delegates, as the German
attendants point out, made a general im-
pression, owing to the superiority of their
oratory, clear concise statements and dis-
tinct, deliberate speaking. Mrs. Carrie
Chapman Catt, the Rev. Anna H. Shaw,
and Mrs. Gilman developed into great fav-
orites with the audiences, and Miss Susan
B. Anthony received an ovation whenever
she interjected the fewest simple remarks,
often writing autographs in the intervals
for her German admirers. On the evening
of June 18 the municipality gave the dele-
gates a great farewell reception at the City
Hall.”


“The Empress of Germany has won the
hearts of the American delegates to the
women’s congress. She glanced along the
row of women, and noticing the venerable
form of Susan B. Anthony, she sent one of
her maids of honor for a chair and begged
her to be seated. Miss Anthony declined
for a time, and yielded ouly to the insist-
ence of the Empress, who herself remained
standing. As the Empress walked along
the line, she was made acquainted with the
name and country of each delegate, and
then, whether English, French, Italian or
Dutch, she, with surprising versatility, ad-
dressed each delegate in her own language,
each spoken with marked purity of accent
and without the least hesitation. Her
guests were amazed. To most of them she
spoke only a word or two, but when she
reached Miss Anthony, she said: “What a
long journey you have taken! How do
you like Berlin? I know your long life’s
work, and your position in the Council of


Women.’ Miss Anthony replied: ‘I hope
your husband, the Emperor, will vie with
the United States in endeavoring to place
German women on an equality with men,
and that he will devote his attention to this
as well as to augmenting the commercial
greatness of his country.’ The Empress
answered: ‘Men are very slow to compre-
hend the equality of women with them-
selves.’ Miss Anthony then told the Em-
press about her last visit to Berlin, when
she met the Empress Frederick. As the
Empress went along the line, she showed
that she knew all about the women’s move-
ment in each country, with the names of
the leaders and all about them. Having
gone down the line, the Empress retraced
her steps, and on reaching Miss Anthony
again, said: ‘You are my honored guest
on this occasion, dear Miss Anthony,’
Then, again shaking hands with Miss
Anthony, and bowing to her guests, she
withdrew. A great mass meeting in favor
of woman suffrage was held in Philhar-
monic Hall on the evening of June 17.
Miss Susan B. Anthony, Mrs. Carrie Chap-
man Catt, and the Rev. Anna Shaw spoke
for the United States.”


THE BERLIN MEETINGS.
	Mrs. Ida H. Harper is contributing to a
number of American papers a series of
lively articles on the Quinquennial meet-
ing of the Women’s International Council,
at Berlin. She says in part:

	“A Berlin! A Berlin! was the warlike cry
of Napoleon. And a Berlin, a Berlin, has
been the rallying cry of an army of women
as, from the four corners of the earth, they
have journeyed to the seat of the German
Empire. Under the white banner of peace
those of Germany and France clasp friendly
hands. Australia and New Zealand bring
greetings to Austria and Bulgaria; the Ital-
ian peninsula salutes the Scandinavian;
South America presents her compliments to
Great Britain, and the United States beams
approvingly on all. The men of our country
would feel very proud of their women folks
if they could see the attention shown them
at these great international meetings. “If
only we had the liberty you possess,” the
other women say; “if only our men would
let us show what we are capable of doing
and being!” and then invariably they end
with the inquiry, “But why is it that you
have not the suffrage, when you have
everything else?”
	The American Church was filled to over-
flowing on the Sunday before the opening
of the meetings, and when Rev. Anna
Howard Shaw arose to offer prayer, the au-
dience resembled a field of wheat stirred by
a breeze, as it leaned forward to see a wo-
man preacher. It seemed most fitting that
the first woman who ever entered a pulpit
in Germany should be Susan B. Anthony,
for among the earliest demands made by
Mrs. Stanton and herself in 1852 was one
that women should be permitted to enter
the ministry and have part in all church
councils. It was a touching spectacle—this
grand old apostle of freedom, in her eighty-
fifth year, as with a tone of triumph, in her
voice she contrasted the position of women
now and half a century ago. The inspiring
address of Mrs Carrie Chapman Catt, which
followed, brought the audience so near to
applause that Miss Shaw came quickly for-


[Column 1]
ward to pronounce the benediction and re-
quest that they observe reverently the day
and place. Rev. Dr. Dickie looked proud
and pleased as he offered his arm to Miss
Anthony, literally to rescue her, as the en-
tire congregation of women pressed forward
and fairly took her in their embrace.
	The business sessions of the Council are
held in the beautiful “House of the Art-
ists,” where their picture exhibits are given,
and, like the other halls here, rich in paint-
ings, stained glass, carving and statuary.
If the confusion of tongues does not drive
the delegates to drink, they certainly will
be entitled to a medal from the W. C. T. U.
The Council officially recognizes three lan-
guages, English, German and French, but
all previous meetings have been conducted
in English. Here, however, the other two
prevail, but even these are foreign to the
members, from Holland, Finland, Scandi-
navia, and various other countries. While
most of their educated women speak Eng
lish to some degree, and some of the Eng-
lish women understand French and Ger-
man, only a few can follow involved resolu-
tions, amendments and parliamentary tan-
gles. All the proceedings, speeches, etc,
at the business sessions, therefore, have to
be repeated by the interpreters in the three
languages, and when the discussion be-
comes animated and the temper slightly
heated, the Tower of Babel by comparison
seems a very simple proposition. Self-con-
trol and friendliness of sp[-]rit are manifested
to a degree which is really remarkable un-
der the circumstances, but the delegates are
pretty limp by the end of each session.
	At the charming social entertainments
which have been arranged we find the same
exasperating obstacle, and frequently, upon
meeting some one whom we have long
wished to know, we can only press her
hand, look eloquently in her eyes, and pass
on feeling like an idiot. Usually, however,
we Americans are like the husband and
wife who always effected a peaceful com-
promise by doing exactly as the husband
wished. We compromise the difference in
language by carrying on the conversation
in English; but still there are a number of
our women from the United States who
converse fluently in German and French.
We are proud of our international president,
Mrs. Sewall, who apparently speaks and
understands the three languages with equal
ease. When the audience were wildly ap-
plauding her address, our American delega-
tion thought to make our appreciation espe-
cially manifest by shouting “Hoch! Hoch!”
at the top of our voices, but we pronounced
it “Hock,” and learned afterwards that it
should have been “Ho,” so we shall ap-
plaud in English hereafter.
	As we sat on the platform and looked
down into the hundreds of faces, we asked
Miss Shaw if she could see much difference
between this and an American audience.
“Yes,” she answered, here they have en-
thusiasm.” And so they have, responding
instantly to a point, and rising to their feet
with cries of approval in a way that is most
inspiring to a speaker. Strange to say, the
appearance of the audience is not so differ-
ent from one in the United States as it

[Column 2]
seemed in London. Das Palast Hotel is in
a busy centre, with a park in front, and at
night one might imagine himself looking
out of the windows of the Fifth Avenue
Hotel in New York.
	The hospitality, courtesy and thoughtful-
ness of the Berlin women to the Council
delegates and speakers can hardly be ex-
pressed. It is overflowing, boundless, un-
ceasing. Nothing has been overlooked
which could contribute to our comfort and
convenience. Every hour not required for
council meetings is filled with the most de-
lightful social affairs, always offering the
most elaborate refreshments. What must
foreigners think when they are invited to a
“tea” or reception in the United States and
regaled with a wafer or a tiny cup of choco-
late?
	The cards for the opening reception given
by the German Council in Prince Albert’s
Hotel said nine o’clock, so some of us
dined leisurely, took our time to make an
evening toilette, and presented ourselves
about eleven. Our feeling may be imagined
when we were ushered into a great banquet
hall, the tables still weighted with the re-
mains of an elaborate feast, the toasts all
finished and the receiving party bidding
adieu to the guests. Since then we have
driven up to the door “when the clock was
striking the hour”
	The lovers of beautiful architecture and
exquisite decorations were in rapture over
the house of Frau Geheimen Baurath Kay-
ser, whose husband is one of the leading
architects in Berlin. In his own home he
has expressed his choicest ideas, and all
parts of Europe have contributed to its
unique furnishings. It was placed at the
disposal of Frau Marie Stritt, of Dresden,
president of the German Council, for her
reception to the delegates. Mrs. Sewall
has had three functions, an opening “cof-
fee,” a handsome luncheon of a hundred
covers, and a large reception in honor of
the new offi[-]ial board, all in the banquet room
of Das Palast Hotel.
	The breakfast given by the Berlin Com-
mittee of Arrangements, whose chairman
is Frau Hedwig Heyl, daughter of the
founder of the North German Lloyd Steam-
ship Company, a society leader and presi-
dent of various clubs and societies, has been
one of the most notable events The club-
house, in one of the lovely parks on the
shores of the river Spree, was an ideal
place, and every arrangement was perfect,

[Column 3]
music, flowers, toasts, souvenirs, not a de-
tail lacking, even the bonbons bearing an
excellent picture of Miss Anthony.
	The week’s social festivities closed fit-
tingly with the reception of Ambassador
and Mrs. Tower to the American delegates.
They reside in a magnificent palace in an
aristocratic part of the city, and it is said
his entire salary for the year lacks $500 of
paying his annual rent. Lovers of demo-
cratic simplicity may hold that it is not neces-
sary for him to live in so sumptuous a man-
ner, but they do not comprehend how essen-
tial this is in a foreign country if the Ameri-
can Embassy is to maintain its prestige
with those of other nations. Mr. Tower is
the only Ambassador from the United
States who ever has been able to entertain
at dinner the Emperor of Germany, as the
etiquette of the court permits him to enter
only homes maintained at a certain stand-
ard.
	Most of us have been pleased to see To-
ronto selected as the place for the next
Quinquennial meeting of the Council.
	The presidency of Mrs Sewall has been
without a parallel in the history of organi-
zations. She founded the Council with
nine affiliated branches, or National Aux-
iliaries. She leaves it with a membership
of twenty National Councils, and with vice-
presidents in fifteen other countries doing
the preliminary work toward organization.
The Council is partly supported by patrons
who pay $100. and of the thirty-five of
these Mrs. Sewall, or those very close to
her, have secured thirty-three. The amount
of labor she has done, the thousands of
letters she has written, are beyond compu-
tation. The present Council has been one
of the greatest triumphs ever recorded for
organized womanhood, and Mrs. Sewall’s
ability as a presiding officer is unsur-
passed.”						Ex.


8	WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
OBSTETRICS

Dr. Maggie C. Roberts
Will commence her next class in Obstet-
rics on Monday, October 10, 1904. This
class will also have the advantage of at-
tending the RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE
CLASS taught by Dr. Roberts. For fur-
ther information, communicate with Dr.
Roberts, 79 C Street. Telephone 2002.
________________________________

R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money. TRY US

[Column 2]
DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
Will open a class in Nursing and Ob-
stetrics on Monday, Oct. 9, 1904, at
her home, 713 Second Street, Salt Lake
City. Those desiring to attend will
please communicate personally or by
letter.
_____________________________
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.		
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
No I Main Street.
___________________________________
CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
				AND NURSING.

	Dr. Romania B. Pratt will commence her
class in Midwifery and Nursing April 7, 1904.
	One student free. Write for particulars.
	This class recommended by the General
Board of the Relief Society.


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 33			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY, 1904			No. 2.


CONTENTS.

Relief Society Reports..........................		
,

Homeward Bound........................C.P.G.	

Foreign Letter...................Lydia D. Alder 	

In Memoriam...........................................	

Mothers’ Work......................................... 	

General Retrenchment Meeting...............	

EDITORIAL—In Memoriam................... 	

	Helen Woodruff.................................  	

	Apostle Woodruff.............................. 	

	Pioneer Day, July, 1904..................... 	

	Mrs. Horne at Home..........................  	

	Ninth Ward R. S. Reunion................. 	

	Annual Meeting R. S. Cannon........... 	

	Editorial Note.....................................  	

POETRY—Deep In the Heart.,..................
..........................................Clara Ingles Frost	

The Legend of the Purple Iris,.......Selected


DEEP IN THE HEART.
A woman's heart was one day laid bare,
That others might its secrets share.
It told of deeds both great and good,
Of temptations met and nobly withstood,
Of sacrifice made, of work completed,
Of truth, and love, and despair defeated;
Of battles gallantly fought and won,
And of perfect faith in the Father and Son.

A woman's heart was one day laid bare,
That others might its secrets share.
But oh! what stories this heart contained!
Stories, so dark its readers gained—
A knowledge of sin and unbelief,
Which caused them to turn away in grief.

Both of those hearts that day laid bare,
Had each received a plentiful share,
Of faith, hope, mercy, truth and love
From the Father, with whom they dwelt
	above.
One came to earth, and her gifts did treas-
	ure,
The other thought only of self and pleasure, 
So one heart became like purified gold,
While one grew small, and cruel, and cold.
				GRACE INGLES FROST.


THE LEGEND OF THE PURPLE IRIS.
On the cross the dying Savior,
	Hung in bitter grief and pain,
While His friends and kinsfolk lingered
	Near Him in their anguish vain.

'Neath the cross an iris blossomed,
	Decked in radiant gold and white,
And she bent her head in ter[-]or,
Folded all her petals bright.

"From this hour," she whispered sadly,
	I will wear a purple veil,
Token of eternal mourning—
	And who see shall learn the tale.

"And when autumn comes to ripen
	Fruits and seeds through all the land,
And the golden sheaves are garnered,
By the reaper's careful hand,

Then my triple pod shall open
	And a blood-red cross display,
Emblem of my Master’s Passion
	On this dark and awful day.”

So since then her golden chalice
	Wears a veil of sombre hue,
Telling of her love unending 
	And her grief forever new.

And her triple pods that open 
	At the autumn's icy breath,
Still display the blood-red emblem
	Of the Savior’s love and death.
			SELECTED.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
	ST. GEORGE.
Dear Editor:
	We held our Relief Society conference
June 26, 1904. Apostle Rudger Clawson
and Brother Henry McCune, also the presi-
dency of the stake, Edward Snow and coun-
selors, present, and gave us some good
instructions. President Snow gave us a
great deal of eneouragement, he thought
that once a year we could be represented
in the tabernacle, so you see we are gain-
ing ground. The Lord has the work in
hand; all we have to do is to do right. He
will do the rest. My heart swells with
gratitude to my heavenly Father for His
loving kindness that He has preserved us in
the truth, that He has counted us worthy to
have a name and standing with His people.
I often wonder how many of this people
realize what a blessing it is to them and
their children to live in these peaceful vales.
The trials of life are nothing when we en.
joy the Spirit of the Lord. When we think
of the condition of the world and the little
hope they have for the future.
	Give my kind love to Annie and family,
and accept the same yourself and Sister
Lambert when you see her. I trust you
are well. I know you are busy. May
the Lord bless you with life and health and
every righteous desire of yonr heart is the
wish of your loving sister.
		ANN C. WOODBURY,
President of the Relief Society St. George
		Stake.
	NEBO STAKE.
	The annual conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Nebo Stake was held in the
Payson tabernacle, President Lylius C. Page
presiding. Visiting sisters present—Mary
Alice C. Lambert and Carrie S. Thomas
from Salt Lake City. Sister Josephine
Peterson reported Payson First ward. Own
a meeting house and had started to build a
granary. Sister Christina Ellworth reported
the Second ward, Payson. Sisters donated
freely, owned granary, had 750 bushels of
wheat. Sister Carrie Holt reported the
First ward society, Spanish Fork. Sister
Pace Second ward, Spanish Fork, reported
that society—owned a meeting house and
have granary nearly completed. Sister
Mary Hallam, Spanish Fork Third ward
society— have about 27 widows, have about
199 bushels of wheat on hand, have donat-
ed $8.00 to the Woman's Building. Sister
Swenson reported Fourth ward society,
Spanish Fork—own meeting house and
granary. Paid $25.00 for Woman's Build-
ing, gathered Sunday eggs to the amount
of $92.00.
	Sister Mary A. Lambert, missionary of
the General Board, was pleased with the
reports given in, and especially those about
the wheat, encouragod the sisters to teach
the children to observe the Sabbath day,
teach them by example as well as precept;
wives should respect their husbands, teach
the children to pay their tithing and honor
their parents. Sister Bathsheba W. Smith
sends her love to the sisters, she is a lovely

[Column 2]
woman; spoke of the blessings received in
working in the Temple.
	Counselor Henry Gardner spoke of the
great benefit of the Relief Society, and en-
couraged the sisters to keep on in the good
work.
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas, member of the
General Board, spoke of the beautiful flow-
ers; but thought they were not half so beau-
tiful as the faces of the sisters; was pleased
with the reports; said how pleased Sister
Smith would be to know how united the
sisters all are.
	Sister Page invited all to stay for lunch.
Benediction by President Page.
	Afternoon session, Sister Page presiding.
After the opening exercises a song was
sung by Esther Coombs. Sister Page called
for more reports. Sister Ferguson reported
the Lake Shore society. The Leland so-
ciety reported by Sister Chisholm—the sis-
ters are all united, it is a new ward. Ben-
jamin society, reported by Sister Bingham
—the sisters are all united, but are so
scattered; own a granary, and are quite
earnest in taking care of the sick. Sister
Ball recited "Somebody's Mother."
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas said she would like
to speak about the nurses' class, which she
did at some length, hoped we would be
able to send some from our stake; read a
letter of instructions from Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith; spoke of woman's work.
	Sister M.A. Lambert spoke of the nurses'
class and the Woman's Building. Said we
should have confidence in our children and
impress upon their minds the value of
prayer; we should be saviors upon mount
Zion to bless every one.
	Sister Lucy Dixon recitsd “At a Stylish
Church.”
	The officers of the General Board and of
the Nebo Stake Relief Society were unan-
imously sustained.
	Stake Counselor Hyrum Lemmon spoke
of the duties of the Relief Society in taking
care of the sick and poor, also the plan of
having nurses to take care of our sick,
should all be united.
	Sister Dixon said the sisters of the Lake
Shore ward had invited us to come there
for our next conference, and we would ad-
journ this conference for three months, to be
held at Lake Shore. Read a sentiment and
urged all to think of the nurses' class, and
try and get some to go and take that course.
	Benediction by Sister Mary Roberts.
		HATTIE WRIDE, Cor. Sec.
	BEAR LAKE.
	The annual conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Bear Lake Stake convened in the
Bloomington meeting house at 2 p.m., July
9, 1904, President Julia P. Lindsay presid-
ing.
	President Lindsay addressed the sisters:
“We have claim upon the blessings of the
Lord. and we shall not be left to ourselves;
though we have not any visitors, we can
hear many good things from our sisters
in Bear Lake: It is necessary to obtain
that which we need for our sustenance, but
we should not allow all our time to be used
in our temporal labors, the spiritual food is


[Column 1]
also necessary for our welfare. God reigns
supreme.” She felt grateful for the pros-
perity that surrounded the Saints.
	Verbal reports as follows: Bloomington,
President S. Patterson; Liberty, President
M. Morgan; Sharon, President E. Miles;
Montpelier, President Agnes Pearce; Ben-
nington, President M.Van Orman; George-
town, Jeanet Thibets; Raymond, President
Martha Hart.
	Counselor Mary Bagley had noted the de-
votion manifested by the presidents. Would
not be deprived of attending Relief Society
if it were possible to attend for all this
world’s goods. The influence felt in asso-
ciating together is a power for good; enu-
merated many of the blessings received by
attending and being energetic in the per-
formance of duties, such as visiting the
sick, administering comfort to those around
us both by word and deed. Had the priv-
lege recently of listening to a sister who
lived in the days of the Prophet Joseph and
who was also a member of the first Relief
Society.
	Sister Sarah A. Allred, of the Stake Pres-
dency of Young Ladies, thought we were
all laboring for the same goal, should be
willing to divide our substance with those
who are less fortunate, charitable to all
God’s children, and pray for all regardless
of color or creed.
	Stake Missionary Elnora Austin felt that
it is good to have a clear conscience; it is a
great satisfaction to feel that we are trying
to keep the laws of God, Felt like trying
to overcome her weaknesses.
	Bishop Alma Findlay spoke on the object
of this probation. There is no reason why
we should not be happy, the Gospel brings
joy to the heart.
	President J. P. Lindsay expressed her
gratitude for the good advice and instruc-
tion given and for the Holy Spirit made
manifest. Prayer by Elder John Bagley.
	Relief Society officers’ meeting, July 10,
1904.
	Verbal reports not given on Saturday
were given: Fish Haven,by President Jessie
Nelson; St. Charles by President Sarah A.
Young; Wardboro and Dingle were report-
ed by President J. P. Lindsay, who with
other stake officers had recently visited, had
also filled vacancies where needed; Ovid,by
President Mary Jensen; Paris, First ward,
by President Jane Stucki; Paris. Second
ward, by President Sarah Ashley; Lanark,
by Counselor Sarah A. Ludlum; Cokeville,
by President J. Lindsay.
	President William Budge was pleased to
see the interest manifested by the attend-
ance. The reports have been interesting.
Should take care of the grain; good grana-
ries should be built. It would not be wis-
dom to donate wheat unless it can be pre-
served for our use in time of need. The
spirit of disobedience and independence is
growing among our children and young
people; they neglect their meetings and
other duties. Felt pleased to offer words of
encouragement to all who are devoted to
this noble work.
	Sunday afternoon, July 10.1904, 2 p. m.
	Meeting was presided over by Bishop
Alma Findlay until after the administration
of the Sacrament.
	President Julia Lindsay then conducted
the meeting and addressed a large congre-
gation in relation to our object in meeting
in conference. She earnestly solicited the
prayers of those present that she might
have wisdom and strength to instruct her
sisters. We have additional work in our

[Column 2]
society—that is, the Mothers Work. Asked
the young ladies to come and take advan-
tage of these opportunities, they are espec-
ially prepared for those who are raising
children. We can accomplish much good
if we are only united.
	President Nancy E. Pugmire, of the Y.
L. M. I. A. said, ‘‘It is a pleasant thought
to know that we are all true to the Gospel.
If we endure to the end we will be saved;
we should try and get all the sunshine into
our souls that is possible. We will be
known by the company we keep. Thought
that many of the parents were too indulg-
ent; we are ambitious for our children.
There is nothing that will bring us greater
satisfaction than a well spent life.
	Sister Elnora Austin said the Relief So-
ciety has a work among the young people
in trying to keep them in subjection to the
proper influences and not allow them to run
at large at all hours of the night.
	Sister Amelia Hoge endorsed the re-
marks made upon the government of our
children. Mothers should instruct their
daughters to become good wives and moth-
ers, that they may understand the rules
and regulations of a model home.
	Bishop W. W. Clark felt like supporting
the organization; they are indeed filling
their mission as a Relief Society. Missed
from our midst Sister E. Hart.  Pleased to
see sisters uncover their heads in religious
services. Many other valuable remarks
were given.
	Sister Mary Bagley said we should look
after those who are weak in the faith.
Jesus came to heal the sick. It is our duty
to look after those who are sick in body,
also in spirit, and comfort the distressed by
kind and encouraging words.
	Closing prayer by Bishop Alma Findlay.
LOUISE TUELLER, Cor. Secretary-
	PIONEER STAKE.
The first quarterly conference of the
Pioneer Stake Relief Society was held on
Jnne 9th, in the Seventh Ward Assembly
rooms, President Annie Wells Cannon pre-
siding. Commenced at 10 a.m. There
were present on the stand besides the reg-
ular stake officers, Sisters Phebe Y. Beatie
and Carrie S. Thomas of the General
Board and President Annie S. Musser and
counselors of Liberty Stake, President Mar-
garet Romney of Ensign Stake, Sister Mary
Alice Lambert and others. There was a
fine attendance of members and a splendid
spirit prevailed.
	After the opening exercises, the ward
presidents reported the condition of the
several branches of the stake, and then fol-
lowed some interesting remarks by Sister
Beatie, pertaining principally to the Relief
Society nurse work. She gave much valu-
able instruction in regard to the selecting
of young women for this work and also as
to the care of them by friends, in homes
when they come from outside settlements.
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas spoke on the
same subject, and referred to the charges of
nurses. Said she knew “the laborer was
worthy of his hire,” still the Latter-day
Saint women must have care, and the
nurse ought not to expect more than
the husband’s wage's for her services; that
she thought there should be a reasonable
arrangement made concerning the prices
for nurses. Spoke interestingly on the
mother's work and said by Relief Society
work we associated ourselves with the very
best women, and always received fine op-
portunities of mingling where the Spirit of

[Column 3]
the Lord abounded.
	President Musser addressed the meeting,
and spoke quite interestingly about her own
stake work and her newly aroused interest
in Relief Society work.
	President Annie W. Cannon urged the
sisters to heed the good counsel given and
spoke especially about the progress of the
Relief Society work, and how we kept on
reaching after new ideas and introducing
new lines of work; that the women of Zion
were always bringing forth new interests,
and that our work was given us through
inspiration, even as we were organized by
inspiration; that when President Brigham
Young called Sister Romania B. Pratt to go
away and study medicine, it was the open-
ing of a new era for our women. He saw
the great necessity among the people for
intelligent women doctors, and he placed
this mission upon her, to prepare herself
and to teach others, that there might be less
suffering and sorrow among the women of
Zion, and now we not only have women
physicians, but trained nurses throughout
the stakes of Zion. It is not in the City
where the want of good, intelligent care is
felt so much as in the outlying settlements,
and we must open our homes to these girls
who come here to learn nursing for the
benefit of our sisters.
	After singing and prayer, the meeting
took a recess until two o’clock.
	At two in the afternoon the sisters re-
assembled, and the hall was filled. On the
stand, beside the stake officers, were Pres-
dent McLachlan and Counselers Sylvester
Q. Cannon and Charles H. Hyde of Pioneer
Stake, and we were also honored by the
presence of the General President of the
Relief Society, Bathsheba W. Smith, and
the General Secretary, Emmeline B. Wells,
also Sister Julina L. Smith of the General
Board, besides Presidents Musser and Rom-
ney, Sister Thomas and others.
	After the opening exercises, SisterCannon
introduced Sister Bathsheba W, Smith, the
General President, snd the only person liv-
ing who was present at the organization of
the Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph
Smith. President Smith spoke briefly of her
great interest and devotion to Relief Society
and Temple work, and read some instruc-
tions given by the Prophet Joseph to the
Saints. She bore a strong testimony of the
truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Julina Smith followed and spoke
about raising our children in the princi-
pses of the Gospel, and the great help we
had now through the Primary, Sunday
School and Improvement work.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells then spoke at
some length about Relief Society work in
its different and interesting branches. Spoke
of the great good the sisters had done;
related some reminiscences of Kirtland and
Nauvoo. Spoke oi the Relief Society as
the first auxiliary organization in the
Church, therefore standing next to the
priesthood.
	Miss Ruth Dahlquist then sang a solo,
after which President McLachlan spoke to
the sisters very interestingly indeed, nnd
gave excellent advice about attending their
meetings punctually and regularly, and
said he fully realized the great benefit of
the Relief Society organizations. He was
followed by Counselor Sylvester Q. Can-
non, who also made interesting and instruc-
tive remarks.
	The names of the General Officers of the
Relief Society and the Stake Officers were


then presented to the meeting and sus-
tained, and six missionaries were appointed
to assist the stake officers and sustained.
	After singing and prayer, the conference
adjourned until September 9, 1904.
	CLARA LITTLE CLAWSON, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
HOMEWARD BOUND.

SS. PRINZESS IRENE, JULY 6, 1904.
	Once more at sea—and this time finding
it much pleasanter. The Prinzess Irene
is called “the lady ship,” and a lady she
is, serene, quiet, steady, and a little slow.
	Hence we are spared the jarring of a
hard-run screw, and forge along as smooth-
ly as a ferry boat. It being midsummer,
there are few passengers going this way,
and this gives comparative quiet to the ear
as well as the rest of the body. And, with
warm and pleasant weather, open ports and
habitable decks give us more “sea air” than
is usually obtainable.
	The rush and whirl of the Congress pre-
vented my writing while it was going on,
and a crowded week of traveling afterward
was equally inimical to letters; but now
there is time enough, and a little space of
removal gives a better picture in the mind.
	For suffragists, the pleasantest feature of
the great gathering might be found in the
universal interest in the “Frauenstimm-
recht” among the gathered representatives
of many lands; the keen interest and large
attendance at suffrage meetings, and the
special honor paid to our great Miss An-
thony. When the empress received the
presidents of each national council, Lady
Aberdeen the incoming and Mrs. Sewall the
outgoing international president, she also
received Miss Anthony, on her own merits.
Well has it been said, “There is nothing
impossible to the steadfast determination of
one human will.”
	When a human being absolutely and de-
terminedly devotes a life to some one pur-
pose, he or she grows great, and that great-
ness is recognized sooner or later: it cannot
be hidden.
	To the old view that women are useful
only as mothers, with some additional con-
venience as housekeepers, the visible pre-
sence of great women who serve the world
in their human capacity, if not as “females,”
is invaluable.
	Of course we need mothers; but there are
plenty.
	Of course, the fullest life should include
all functions, but not all of us may have all
things. And in this strange, changeful,
trying period of the renaissance of women,
many must renounce much—in order to do
more.
	One woman at the Congress, a magnifi-
cent creature from Norway, young, strong,
serenely beautiful, with a long, heavy flaxen
plait hanging down her back, and ropes of
big silver beads around her neck, was also
proudly carrying a sturdy child of a year or
so. It was a splendid picture—the woman
in all her typical, original power and beau-
ty; the handsome, well grown boy to prove
fulfillment of all primal duty; and then the
big human soul and mind—the interest in
her country’s progress and that of other
countries; the journey from her northern
home to join this meeting of the nations.
In the smoother years that are coming, the
alternative will not be forced upon the grow-
ing woman, and she will be able to be a
full-grown, widely useful human creature,

[Column 2]
and a happy woman, too. All honor to
those who have served the world in these
hard years of heavy cost, relentlessly de-
manded and so nobly paid!
	This meeting in Germany was a trium-
phant success. The preliminary suffrage
meeting was satisfactory—some coming to
that who did not stay to the later proceed-
ings; the Council accomplished much, and
the Congress was better than our hopes.
There was a large attendance both of dele-
gates and visitors, and the general public
of Berlin fflled the halls from day to day.
The audiences were immense, including
many men.
	It must be a strange thing to a man, ac-
customed only to see women singly, in
their private capacity, or in social groups,
each with an escort, to be present at these
great gatherings, to see thousands of wom-
en together, not “as women,” but as human
beings and members of society. Quite apart
from argument and appeal, the impression
made by the mere visible presence of such
an aggregate of public-spirited women must
be very great.
	And it is. Many remarks were made on
it by astonished German gentlemen.
	Besides the public welcome, interest and
applause, we were received and entertained
with all cordiality and honor by the hostess
city. The beautiful houses of Berlin re-
ceived us, Art museums, gardens, galler-
ies, parks, all were open to us; royalty,
nobility, and—what really counted for more
than all—“der stadt Berlin” itself magnifi-
cently entertained this organization of wom-
en united to serve the world.
	The reception by the city, our great
banquet in the richly decorated Rathhaus,
marks an epoch in the woman’s movement.
Here was the great public building, built
by men and for men, the official home of
of the governing sex, open to do honor to
the once only domestic sex—with Burgo-
meister, Oberburgermeister, magistrates and
ministers, in their gold chains, receiving
and entertaining us. And this not as indi-
viduals, not as separate dignitaries, however
distinguished some of our women are, but
as an organization of real value to the
world.
	It should be a lesson clear and convincing
to those loyal but limited souls who put
their chosen reform before all others and
say, “we must have prohibition first” or
“suffrage first” or “socialism first.” We
must have first what we can get first—and
some things come together.
	We do not confront a growing child and
demand hair first, or teeth first, or bones
first. We do not, or at least we should not,
confront a growing character, forming or
reforming, and say, “we must have courage
first,” or “patience first.” Growth is com-
plex and gradual, in individuals or in the
world as a whole; and needs to be studied
before we can safely hasten it.
	In earlier days, when less was known of
the nature of man, we assumed the people
could if they chose become quite different
and behave quite differently. Now we are
slowly and somewhat reluctantly finding
out that conduct is the symptom of charac-
ter, and character the result of conditions.
The problem of the scientific reformer is:
How to change conditions so as to improve
character, and thus modify conduct to the
desired form.
	We are learning something of this prob-
lem, though but slowly.
							C. P. G.
				Boston Woman's Journal.


WONDERFUL OLD MEN.
	Men of thought have always been dis-
tinguished for their age. Solon, Sophoc-
les, Pindar, Anacreon, and Xenophon were
octogenarians. Kent, Buffon, Goethe, Fon-
tenelle and Newton were over eighty when
they died; So was Harvey, the discoverer
of the circulation of the blood. Many men
have done excellent work after they have
passed eighty years. Landor wrote his
“Imaginary Conversations’ when eighty-
five, Izaak Walton wielded a ready pen at
ninety. Hahnemann married at eighty and
was working at ninety-one. Michael
Angelo was still painting his giant canvas-
es at eighty-nine, and Titian at ninety
worked with the vigor of his early years.
Fontenelle was as light-hearted at ninety-
eight as at forty, and Newton at eighty-
three worked as hard as he did in middle
life. Cornara was in far better health at
ninety-five than at thirty, and as happy as
a boy. Dr. Du Boisy was practising at
Hanover as a physician in 1897, going his
daily rounds at the age of one hundred and
three. William Reynold Salmon, M. R.
C. S., of Conbridge, Glamorganshire, died
on March 11th, 1897, at the age of one
hundred and six. At the time of his death
he was the oldest known individual of indis-
putably authenticated age, the oldest phy-
sician, the oldest member of the Royal Col-
lege of Surgeons, and the oldest Freemason
in the world.

	Miss Florence Nightingale recently passed
her eighty-fourth birthday. Although
long since removed from conspicuous par-
ticipation in affairs she is still active and
wields a strong influence ln a quiet manner
in charitable and reform movements. It
is said that she will have in a short time
the Order of Merit bestowed upon her by
King Edward. This is a decoration founded
by the king. It is well merited by Flor-
ence Nightingale, who began the great
system of nursing the sick and wounded
in war time, which now prevails over the
world.
	An afternoon “tea” for Americans only,
was given by Mary B. Willard, in Berlin,
whose School for Girls has been noted for
a quarter of a century. The Ambassador,
Consul General Mason, Dr. Dickie, and
other prominent Americans, gave to the
pleasant rooms an atmosphere highly appre-
ciated by those who were several thousand
miles away from home. Mrs. Willard has
sold her school, and will reside in New
York after August.
	Great disappointment is felt because of
the limited number whom the empress
received on Tuesday. Sixteen women only
were elected to represent the twenty
countries, but three of those were from the
United States. When Canada, Australia
and New Zealand protested because they
were not invited, the answer was that they
had their representation through Great
Britain.


It is told of the Archbishop of Canter-
bury that he once asked a Sunday School
class what the difference was between King
Solomon and other men. No one could
solve the problem. “Come,” said his grace
—“was there any difference, for instance,
between King Solomon and myself?” And
then one child ventured a reply—“Please,
sir, Solomon was wise!”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

			Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS. Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY, 1904


IN MEMORIAM.
HELEN MAY WINTERS WOODRUFF
	Sister Helen Woodruff who passed away
so suddenly May 25, 1904, while on a trip
to Mexico, whither she had gone with her
husband and little ones, was a charming
young woman, as well as beautiful, the
very soul of good nature, vivacious and
witty, attracting attention wherever she
went by her fascinating manner, and en-
dearing herself to all with whom she be-
came acquainted. ‘‘None knew her but to
love her,” for she possessed all those fine
qualities that make the perfect woman, and
carry away captive men’s hearts. But
Helen was wooed and won by one most
worthy, and to whom she gave her heart’s
devotion.
	Looking back on her wedded life it
seems a happy summer-dream, full of sun-
shine and music and without shadows.
Owen and Helen’s lives blended admirably
together, and they were indeed comrades in
every place, whether at their own hospit-
able home or engaged in social or religious
duties.
	So much has been said and written of
each of them that one can only repeat as it
were that which has already been better
expressed, yet as a friend and neighbor the
writer fee’s she must in the columns of the
EXPONENT record the touching story, and
express her sympathy for the bereaved
mothers’, both Sister Mary Ann Winters,
a lifelong friend, and Sister Emma S. Wood-
ruff with whom in Relief Society work intim-
ately associated. Sweet sympathy helps us
over many hard places in this life, and those
who suffer need the faith, the prayers, the
tender sympathy that helps even by a press-
ure of the hand, Hannah T. King wrote:
		Sweet the sympathetic hand
		Ever ready to expand,
		To raise, to comfort, and to bless
		All the needy in distress.
	Not only have I known the mothers but
the sisters of Sister Helen, and of Brother
Owen Woodruff, and to them my heart goes
out in loving tenderness; and yet they may
indeed rejoice that those dear beloved ones
have made their lives sublime while in this
probation and they know their exaltation is
sure, it only remains for those who love
them to follow in their footsteps that they
also may reach the heavenly mansions pre-
pared for the faithful.
	Sister Helen May Winters was born in
Pleasant Grove Sept, 24, 1873, married to
Abraham Owen Woodruff in the Salt Lake

[Column 2]
Temple June 30, 1897, and she was a bride
any man might be proud to lead to the sa-
cred altar.
		‘‘Grace in all her steps
		Heaven in her eye, in every
		Gesture dignity and love!
		The friend and co-partner
		Of her brother man, weaving
		The crown matrimonial, as
		The badge of the partner of his
		Throne and sovereignty!”
	Four lovely little ones were given to
them, one son Wilford Owen, Helen, Mar-
jorie and Rhoda the baby six months old at
the time of the mother’s decease. The
greatest tenderness is felt by the saints for
these orphan children, and prayers innum-
erable are no doubt offered daily in their
behalf, that they may be protected from
every evil and guarded and guided in the
path that leads to eternal life.
	Sister Helen W. Woodruff was an active
and zealous member of the General Board
of the Y. L. N. M. I. A. and traveled ex-
tensively in the interest of the organiza-
tion. She was one of its loyal supporters
and advocates and was ready at all times to
testify to the truth of the Gospel.
	Helen has gone and we can only say, we
do not understand.


APOSTLE ABRAHAM OWEN WOODRUFF.
	The first thought that came to the writer
when hearing the shocking news of the
death of Elder Woodruff who had died in
Mexico was “the beloved Apostle” and such
he was to many in very deed. His tender
tone of voice, his gracious manner at all
times and in all places, his innocent, child-
like expression, his genial kindliness, all
betokened the loveliness of his well-rounded
character. We can only think of him as a
man possessed of all the best attributes of
heart and soul, that tend toward the high-
est aspirations reaching out to eternal life.
One thinks of the Savior’s illustration when
He took the little child and set him in their
midst and said, “Unless ye become as one
of these, ye can in no wise enter the king-
dom of heaven.”
	Owen Woodruff, like his great and well-
beloved father, was the very personification
of humility; but he has gone from this
world to join his father in the place pre-
pared for those who have been faithful
here; and though those nearest and dearest
will mourn his absence, yet they have the
blessed assurance which the Gospel affords
of meeting him again where there is no
more parting, or tears or sorrow for ever-
more.
	Abraham Owen Woodruff, son of Presi-
dent Wilford Woodruff and his wife, Emma
Smith Woodruff, was born November 22,
1872, on the farm just outside the city limits
where he afterwards made his own home;
he was of a religious nature and fond of his
home and of the companionship of those
who were inclined to serve the Lord, in
this respect following in the footsteps of his
illustrious and exemplary father.
	He filled a successful mission to Germany
remaining there between two and three
years, during which time he also visited
Austria and Italy, and made good use of
these opportunities. Not long after his re-
turn he married Helen May Winters, June
30, 1897, and on October 7, of the same
year, was ordained an Apostle; ever since
he has labored diligently among the Saints,
and traveled hither and thither in the sev-
eral Stakes of Zion, and was one of the
principal colonizers of the Big Horn coun-


try in Wyoming, an arduous undertaking.
	Although his loss is deeply felt by his
family and associates and indeed all the
Saints, for he was widely known and every-
where beloved, his good works and noble
record will never perish, and his name will
be a synonym for good among the Saints
for all time. He died in Mexico, June 20,
1904. It is sad to die away from home
among strangers, yet it can make no differ-
ences to the one who goes, for the earth is
the Lord’s and his hand is over all, and “not
a sparrow falls to the ground without His
notice,” therefore we know as the poet says,
	“And not on a blind and aimless way,
		The spirit goeth.”


PIONEER DAY, JULY 24, 1904.
	Monday, July 24, of this year, was very
appropriately celebrated wtth exercises in
the Assembly Hall and a street parade in
imitation of the original methods of coming
into the valley in the earliest times. The
committee had previously sent out invita-
tions to all the Pioneers of 1847 that there
would be a banquet for them and some
prizes given. The place of gathering was
in Liberty Park, and bands of music were
in attendance. Two military companies
from Fort Douglas were in the parade, in
charge of Captain Briant S. Wells of the
H. & L. infantry, and the march from South
Temple to the Park was quite satisfactory
and creditable in its display, civil and mil-
itary, of old-time eannons and wagons and
other details.
	The society Daughters of the Pioneers
had the banquet in charge, and the stand-
ing committee on entertainment, assisted
by some of the presiding officers, worked
assiduously to make the dinner a success.
They provided for a hundred, but more
were seated at the first table.
	It is well known that only a very few of
the first band of original Pioneers are now
living, and that first company that followed
them, arriving here in October of the same
year, and a few of the Mormon Battalion,
make up what is reckoned the Pioneers.
Some of these were then little children or
babes in arms.
	The festivities of several kinds, music
and speech making, continued through the
day, and at night there were brilliant fire-
works to entertain those who were not too
weary to remain and witness the pyrotech-
nics.
	Among those of 1847 who were entitled
to presents because of age was Sister Mary
Isabella Horne, who was given a handsome
silk umbrella with gold handle. Governor
Heber M. Wells, in his happy style, made
the presentation, and the honored lady res-
ponded in a few gracious and well chosen
words. The oldest Pioneer of the brethren
was Bro. James Luch, who was given a
gold-headed cane, with a few fitting words.
	Utah may well be proud of the Pioneers,
when they recall the labor not only of
crossing the plains, but to make this barren
land habitable; and too much credit cannot
be awarded to the Pioneer of Pioneers—
Brigham Young—and his faithful co-labor-
ers who came here with him on that famous
pilgrimage—Heber C. Kimball, Willard
Richard, Orson Pratt and Wilford Wood-
ruff.


MRS. HORNE AT HOME.
	Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne is home again,
having reached here August 18, feeling de-
lighted with her success while away and


the beautiful places she has seen iu her trip
abroad. Mrs. Horne went to Europe to
attend the International Council and Con-
gress in Berlin; she left this city April 18, ult.,
and went first to New York and afterwards to
Boston to attend the annual meeting of the
Daughters of the Revolution, which was
held there early in May. Mrs. Horne was
proxy for the Regent of the D. R. Utah
Society, and was present at all the meetings
and festivities. She was received with the
greatest courtesy and had every opportunity
to vote and to speak for the society she rep-
resented. The meetings were interesting,
the entertainments enjoyable. Mrs Horne
sailed from Boston for Liverpool on board
the “Cretic,” Miss Christensen of Utah
accompanying her) and Mrs. Lydia D. Al-
der and daughter May were also in the
same ocean party.
	Mrs. Horne arrived in Berlin in time to
attend all the meetings and gatherings of
the International Council, which com-
menced the week previous to the Con-
gress. Most of our readers have read
a great deal of this wonderful Congress of
representative women from many lands,
and Mrs. Horne and others, who have had
this privilege of attending and participating
in these immense gatherings will be able to
tell us something more of the magnitude,
and magnificence of these wonderful affairs,
that have been so largely successful in ev-
ery respect. No such Woman’s Congress
has ever convened in the world’s history as
this last one in Berlin. The great Con-
gress held in Chicago in connection with
the World’s Fair, and the much greater
one held five years ago in London, scarcely
compare with this last superb effort made
by the great body of earnest, brilliant,
strong-minded women, who are uniting
their forces for the betterment of the world.
Utah was well represented in this great
congress, not only in having places on the
program and the opportunity of speaking
to large audiences, but in various other
ways, garden parties, receptions, “teas,”
“coffees” and public entertainments.
	In another part of this paper Mrs. Lydia
D. Alder has given a few items cencerning
this great congress, and we shall possibly
be having more and more of the incidents,
and what took place, as thought crystalizes
in the minds of those who saw and heard
and took part in these brilliant assemblies,
and drove and rode and walked through the
grand scenery, and gazed upon the old ruins
as well as the grandeur of the new in arch-
itecture, statuary, pictures, and all that
makes the old world beautiful.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NINTH WARD R. S. REUNION.
	By invitatton of the President of the
Ninth Ward Relief Society of this City,
Tuesday, June 5, 2 p.m., the General Pres-
ident of the Relief Society and the writer
attended a meeting of that society; there
were also present President Annie S. Mus-
ser of the Liberty stake and her counselors,
Zurviah G. Eardley and Mary E. Hodgson.
Sister Lucy Kimball had also been specially
invited. There was a good attendance of
members, President Mary Mair presiding,
both her counselors were on the platform,
and Bishop West and Counselor Taylor
Woolley.
	After the usual exersises, President B.W.
Smith made some excellent remarks on the
early days of the Church and spoke of the
first organization of the Relief Society at
which she was present; she then read some


of the Prophet Joseph’s remarks to the sis-
ters in that early day, which she had copied
from the minutes kept by Sister Eliza R.
Snow, the first secretary of the society. A
lovely spirit pervaded the meeting while
she was addressing the audience. Sister
Lucy W. Kimball also related personal rem-
iniscences of the Prophet Joseph, in whose
family she had lived and referred to the
Prophet’s wife (Sister Emma Smith), her
good traits of character and her great char-
ity; she alluded to her own home life in
the valley after her marriage to President
Heber C. Kimball. Other speakers were
President Annie S. Musser, Z. C. Eardley,
M. E Hodgson, E. Webb and the writer.
Bishop West made a few remarks endorsing
what had been said and praised the sisters
for their good works. Counselor Taylor
Woolley added a few earnest words and
pronounced the benediction.
	Refreshments were served after the meet-
ing had adjourned in a spacious room ad-
joining the hall, and social conversation,
with instrumental music on the piano, and
a song or two enlivened the hours and made
a pleasing variety, which was most enjoy-
able.
	Four new members were enrolled on
that day, which is always a hopeful sign of
progress. The hall was decorated with
beautiful flowers in great variety, and the
visiting sisters were each presented with a
handsome bouquet. These reunions are
helpful to the sisters in promoting sociabil-
ity and union of feeling, aims and interests.


ANNUAL MEEING R. S. CANNON WARD.
	President Rebecca A. Sharp, of Cannon
Ward in Pioneer Stake, invited the Society
to meet at her beautiful home on Twelfth
South and Redwood Road, to keep their an-
nual day. Her parlors were well filled, a
number of visitors being invited, and there
was a good attendance of members, as well
as Bishop Lewis M. Cannon, who was also
in attendance. Visitors were General Pres-
ident Bathsheba W. Smith, her first coun-
selor Annie T. Hyde, Secretary Emmeline
B. Wells, Counselors Sarah J. Jenne Cannon
and Clara C. Cannon, of the former Salt
Lake Stake, and former Treasurer Marga-
ret C. Hull. After singing, prayer, etc.,
Secretary Martha T. Cannon read the min-
utes of the last meeting, which were quite
interesting and contained remarks by Pres-
ident M. Isabella Horne, who was at that
time President of the Salt Lake Stake, which
included the four new stakes. Sister
S. J. J, Cannon stated that Sister Horne
had been expected to be present at this
meeting, but regretted very much she was
not quite well enough to come.
	President Sharp made opening remarks
and welcomed the sisters, was glad to see
so many, etc. She spoke of a case of sick-
ness iu the ward and solicited means to
aid the family, who were in distressed cir-
cumstances. The sisters who addressed
the meeting were first, President B. W.
Smith, who occupied a few minutes in giv-
ing good counsel and expressing her pleas-
ure in her labors, both in the Society and
in the Temple. Counselor Annie T. Hyde
followed, alluding to the subject of criti-
cism and slander. Sisters Sarah A. J. Can-
non, Clara C. Cannon and Martha T. 
Cannon each made excellent remarks and
bore faithful testimonies of the truth of the
Gospel.
	Sister M. C. Hull sung in her magnificent
voice, “The Holy City.”


Sister E. B. Wells spoke briefly, referring
to the early days of the organization.
	Bishop Cannon was then asked to address
the sisters, but said he would prefer to
hear Sister Smith tell of the first meeting
of this Society. In response to this Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith drew a pretty word
picture of that unique gathering in Nauvoo
when only eighteen women were present,
though the Prophet Joseph was there, with
Elders Willard Richards and John Taylor.
Bishop Cannon added a few words express-
ing his good wishes for the Society, men-
tioning the grain question, etc., and willing-
ness to aid them in all undertakings. Two
new members, both young women, were
added to the enrollment, and after singing
and prayer the annual meeting was ad-
journed for one year.
	After the adjournment refreshments were
served, including fine rosy apples raised in
the orchard where the home stands. Sister
Sharp is said to be a model home-maker,
as well as a thoroughly good president, her
counselors are efficient, and she has an ex-
cellent secretary and competent treasurer
and corps of teachers.


EDITORIAL NOTE.
	Stakes visited in June and July of this
year are—Pocatello, Sisters Clarissa S. Wil-
liams and Phebe Y. Beatie; Tooele, Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp and Elizabeth J. Stevenson; We-
ber, Sarah Jenne Cannon and Maggie C.
Hull; Big Horn, Priscilla Smith and Hattie
B. Harker; Summit, Counselor Annie T.
Hyde and Rebeeca E. Little; North San-
pete, South Sanpete and Sevier, Counselor
Annie T. Hyde and Martha A. Cannon;
Bannock, Sisters Emmeline B. Wells and
Sarah J. Jenne Cannon; Utah and Alpine,
President Bathsheba W. Smith and Sister
Emmeline B. Wells; Davls; President
B. W. Smith, Sisters E. B. Wells and Julina
L. Smith; Nebo, Sisters Carrie S. Thomas
and Mary Alice Lambert; San Luis, Mar-
garet A. Caine and Hattie B. Harker; Wa-
satch, C. S. Thomas and R. E Little.


[For the Exponent.]
		FOREIGN LETTER.
	July Fourth, nineteen and four, was cele-
brated by the Americans who live in Leip-
zig at Wald Schatke, in an enthusiastic and
fitting manner.
	An automobile, with our nation’s flags in
evidence, first attracted our attention, while
near the band stand, a beautiful new one,
was in full view. O, it waved so proudly,
as we stopped to count the stars in its folds.
Yes, forty-five, and ours the last, though
not the least, by any means of that stately
family.
	We had reached the place, by a walk of
seven miles, through the forest of Couner-
vitz Holy, a little dorf or village. It was
an ideal day, cool and pleasant, so that we
scarcely noticed the long walk. We lost
our way for a time and roamed through
paths and roads each one seeming more
picturesque than the other. The forests are
so near the large cities here, that it is only
a few minutes walk, to while away an hour
or two in the company of solitude and sil-
ence. Seats are placed at intervals, where
one may rest and commune with themselves,
away from the marts of men.
	The river Bleise, a pretty, slow stream
winds through the wild tangle of shrubs
and trees. The grassy knolls are dotted
with butter-cups, yellow as gold, and with-


in a few yards of us, were three deer, the
little one looking at us with that wild look,
that did not even evince surprise, I feel sad
and alone, oft times in a crowd but here the
language of silence thrills my heart.
	While the young people cut gum from
the Spruce trees I dreamed. A soft song of
the past, is sung by the passing breeze that
murmurs through the wide spreading trees.
Beautiful castles rise to view, both of the
present and future, gilded by the golden sun
rays as they gleam through the waving
boughs, where the birds sing love songs,
songs of hope and promise. But here we
are at last, and the games are engaging
every one’s attention.
	The agility of the men, and the graceful
movements of the women, proclaim them
“Americans.” Their dress too, proclaims
their nationality, and it is refreshing to hear
them talk, with that ease and freedom, for
which we are noted.
	A number of prizes were awarded, amid
peals of laughter, one lady winning a din-
ner set.
	In the evening fire works, and a dance
closed the festivities.
	But long before they were over, we left;
taking a short cut to the car for home, pass-
ing a large party of students, with their
sweet-hearts, who were enjoying a boat ride
on the still river.
	Leipzig is not so large nor beautiful a city
as Berlin, but it has its Palmen garden, so
pardonably renowned. It reminds one of
fairy land, or a scene from some fair tropi-
cal country.
	The rose garden, the landscape, trees
and shrubs, cannot be described, but they
show the care, and utter disregard of cost,
shown by the Germans, in their pleasure re-
sorts. The music from the band lends en-
chantment, to the glorious surroundings.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIUM
	Sketch of the life of Sister Sarah Ann Scott
who departed this life June 7th 1904, after seven
months illness from general debility. Deceased
was born in Philadelphia Sept. 6th 1832, became a
member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in 1847. Married Elder Andrew H.
Scott January 12th 1851, at Kanesville, Iowa. came
to Utah the same year with her husband and moth-
er living in Salt Lake City until 1852, when she
moved to Provo and has since resided there was
the mother of eleven children, 102 grandchildren,
and 36 great-grand-children. Has been President
of the Provo 2nd Ward Relief Society, since 1867
until last spring,
	Resolutions of respect adopted by the Relief
Society of the Provo 2nd Ward.
	Whereas—It Has pleased our Heavenly Father
to call from our midst our most beloved President
and co-laborer Sarah Ann Scott and
	Whereas—She has labored as a R. S. President
36 years until her last sickness and
	Whereas—She has labored in aiding five suc-
cessive Bishops in caring for the poor, comforting
the sick, and spiritually uplifting the sorrowful be
it therefore
	Resolved—That through her departure the R.S.
has lost a faithful and zealous worker, a wise
President, and a devoted, practical, Latter-day
Saint and
	Resolved—That we, her co-laborers, emulate
her devoted life and example and may her sons
aud daughters and grandchildren constantly look
to her ideal life for strength and perseverance
while toiling for eternal riches and
	Resolved—That these resolutions be placed up-
on the records of the Provo 2nd Ward R. S. and
that they be published in the WOMANS EXPONENT
also in the Provo Enquirer.
					HARRIET SCOTT
					SINA HENDRICKSON
					ELIZA NELSON
				In behalf of 2nd Ward R. S.


Why is a man who adds to false rumors
like one who believes all that he is told?—
Because he re-lies on all that he hears.


[Column 1]
			MOTHER’ WORK.
PLAN OF MOTHERS’ WORK FOR THE RELIEF
	SOCIETY BRANCHES OF THE UTAH STAKE
	OF ZION, FOR THE YEAR 1905.
		Self Culture.
1—Physical culture for mothers:
	(a) Care of general health.
	(b) Preparation for maternity.
	(c) Personal appearance.
2—Intellectual culture of mothers.
	(a) What literature shall she read?
	(b) Art in the home.
	(c) Practical science in the home.
3—Moral culture for mothers:
	(a) Gospel ideals of Morality.
	(b) Self control.
	(c) Social duties.
4—Religious culture for mothers:
	(a) Study of the principles of the Gos-
		pel.
	(b) Application of the principles of the
		Gospel.
	(c) Result of study and Application of
		the Principles of the Gospel, as
		manifest in the Relief Society and
		in Church work.
		MARTH A. F. KEELER, Ch. Com.

WASATCH STAKE.
LESSON VII.
Courtship and Marriage.
	(a) Take the greatest care in selecting a
companion. (b) How is marriage regarded
by our Church, and what is meant by mar-
riage for eternity. Nov. Guide, Journal para-
graphs 4, 5, 6, 7. Improvement Era, April
and May, 1903.

LESSON VIII.
Purity of Character.
	(a) Ball room etiquette. (b) Good man-
ners part of good morals. Guide Journal
of Young Ladies, Sept., 1903.

LESSON IX.
	“Courtesy and etiquette are flowers;
	The one has roots in the heart,
	The other in the intellect.”
The Rights of Family Members.
	(a) How should the rights of parents be
regarded? (b) What are the rights of chil-
dren in the home? (c) Why is a mother’s
love nearest to the love of Christ? Guide
Journal of Young Ladies, Jan., 1904, May,
Era, 1903.

LESSOE X.
Home Hygiene and Sanitation.
	(a) Dodging the Word of Wisdom. (b)
Joseph Smith a scientist. Juvenile, May 1,
1904; Era, May, 1904.

LESSON XI.
Home Culture.
‘As the twig is bent the tree inclines.”
	(a) Are the home environments, example
and training in harmony with the truths

[Column 2]
taught the Latter-day Saints? Era, Dec.,
1903.

LESSON XII.
Prayer.
“Pray Always.”
	(a) Sincere prayer is the greatest safe-
guard against wrong doing. (b) How does
the habit of prayer affect the lives of boys
and girls. (c) How and when should we
pray? Doctrine and Covenants, sec. 61,
verse 39; Guide Journal, Jan., 1904, also
Young Ladies’ Journal, August, 1901.
	Anna R. Duke, Elizabeth Murdock,
Lovisa Alexander, Stake Presldency.
	Eliza Rasband, Emma Duke, Sarah K.
Duke, Committee.

		LIBERTY STAKE.
Woman’s Duty and Influence in the Home.

LECTURE I.
A. HOME MAKING.
	1. Religious duties. (a) Marriage or-
dained of God. (b) Sanctity of the home.
(c) Devotion in the home
	2. Social duties. (a) Pleasant home as-
sociations. (b) Recreation. (c) Visiting
friends.

LECTURE II.
B. THE WIFE.
	1. Helpmeet. (a) Companionship of hus-
band and wife. (b) An influence in Church
duties.
	2. Housekeeping. (a) Domestic econ-
omy. (b) Order, sanitation, ventilation,
etc. (c) Art in the home.

LECTURE III.
C. THE MOTHER.
	1 Preparation for motherhood. (a) First
law given to Adam and Eve. (b) Sacred
duty of motherhood. (c) Pre-natal influ-
ences. (d) Blessings of motherhood.
	2. Motherhood. (a) Callings less im-
portant than motherhood require study and
training. (b) All things in nature gov-
erned by natural law. (c) Mother’s influ-
ence in the home.

LECTURE IV.
D. CARE OF CHILDREN.
	1. Physical needs. (a) Hygienic laws
observed. (b) The word of wisdom a law
to all Saints. (c) Proper living lays the
foundation for strong character.
	2. Moral and spiritual training. (a) Obed-
ence essential to development of character-
(b) Cooperation of parents necessary. (c)
Qualities to be cultivated—love, patience,
cheerfulness, kindness, contentment, etc.
(d) The brother and sister in the home.

LECTURE V.
Woman’s Duty and Influence in the Church.
E. INDIVIDUAL DEVELOPMENT, INTELECT-
		UAL.
	1. By study of the world’s history, past
and present.
	2. By observation. (a) Places. (b)
Things. (c) Events (cause and effect.)
	3. By works. (a) Application of true
knowledge. (b) Imparting true knowledge.


LECTURE VI.
F. INDIVIDUAL DEVELOPMENT, SPIRIT-
	UAL.
	1. By instruction. (a) Divine inspiration
(b) Revelation. (c) Preaching.
	2. By research. (a) Bible. (b) Book of
Mormon. (c) Doctrine and Covenants. (d)
Pearl of Great Price. (e) Inspired Ser-
mons and Epistles. (f) By works and ap-
plication of knowledge.
			LECTURE VII.
G. RELIEF SOCIETY WORK.
	1. By visiting the sick and needy. (a)
Necessities. (b) Helpful labor. (c) Cheer-
ful entertainment. (d) Refreshments. (e)
Flowers. 
	2. By assisting the poor. (a) Encour-
agement. (b) Sharing comforts. (c) Pro-
viding labor. (d) Entertainments.
	3. By encouraging the downcast. (a)
Establishing confidence in themselves. (b)
Showing the mercy of God. (c) Teaching
them to look to the future and not despair.
	4 Care of the aged. (a) Supplying needs.
(b) Lightening their labors. (c) Cheering
their lives by proper attention.
	5. By proper care of the dead. (a) Pre-
paring clothing. (b) Washing, and dress-
ing the body. (c) Properly laying away.
			LECTURE VIII.
H. SUSTAINING THE PRIESTHOOD.
	1. By word. (a) Encouraging confi-
dence in individuals who preside. (b) De-
fending decisions given by authority of the
priesthood. (c) Encouraging Church mem-
bers in the performance of duty.
	2. By works. (a) Responding to calls.
(b) Fostering mission work. (c) Volun-
tary contribution of means.
			LECTURE IX.
Woman's Duty and Influence in the State.
I. PRIVILEGES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
	1, Utah compared with other states. (a)
Equality of men and women. 
			LECTURE X. 
J. TRAINING OF FUTURE CITIZENS.
	1. Duty of bearing children. (a) The
family the foundation of the state. (b) De-
crease of children in the American home.
			LECTURE XI.
K.
	1. Home instruction and training. (a)
How mothers may train children in citi-
zenship. (b) Introduction of God and
Godliness into affairs of State.
			LECTURE XII.
L. Mothers of Great Men.
	1. Great men’s acknowledgment of their
obligations to their mothers. (a) The
hand that rocks the cradle, etc. (b) Exam-
ples and precepts.
			AMANDA DONE,
			GRACE T. ANDERSON,
			ELLA B. IVERSON,
					Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
GENERAL RETRENCHMENT MEETINGS.
	The sisters are well aware that for more
than thirty years meetings have been held
semi-monthly in the 14th ward Assembly
Rooms. The subject of retrenchment was
introduced by President Brigham Young as
early as in the “Sixties” at a time when
this people seemed inclined to follow after
the fashions of the world in some lines, and
as President Young was an economist,
he counseled the older sisters to be careful
and set an example worthy of emulation by
the women of the younger generation. Sis-
ter M. Isabella Horne was asked to take
charge of these meetings by President
Young; and the first meeting was held in
the 15th ward school house and from there
adjourned to the 14th ward Assembly
Rooms where they have been held ever
since. Associated with President Horne in
this organization were Sisters Eliza R.
Snow, Zina D. Young, Bathsheba W.
Smith, Phebe W. Woodruff, Marinda N.
Hyde, Sarah M. Kimball and Margaret T.
Smoot.
	Of the original number only two remain
M. Isabella Horne and Bathsheba W.
Smith.
	It is not the intention to give at this time
a sketch of this association but as the meet-
ings are now discontinued, and as we have
minutes of several meetings on hand that
had not been printed we will make a brief
mention of these last meetings.
	October 17, 1903, there was a good atten-
dance Sister E. J. Stevenson presiding in
the absence of President Horne, the usual
exercises of singing, etc., and prayer was
offered by Sister Mary Alice Lambert, after
remarks by Sister Stevenson upon the Sab-
bath day and instructions in the way of ex-
hortation, Counselor, Sarah Jenne Cannon of
the Relief Society, Salt Lake Stake of Zion,
spoke very feelingly of the work of Sister
Horne and her Board—they had visited
twenty-two wards already the present year
and were intending to visit all before the
cold weather, she expressed herself forcibly
in regard to the care of the poor and other
matters of importance.
	Sister Maria Corbett, Martha Read, Sarah
Rushton, Mary Campbell, Mary P. Silver
and Sisters Madsen, Stilton, Peterson and
Lundgreen bore strong testimonies of the
truth of the Gospel. Sister Mary A. Lam-
bert said she had a testimony of this work
when a very little girl, Sisters Mary Mair,
Seabeck, Wilson, Jones, also bore testimony
and Elizabeth Paul spoke of her many years
presidency in the 10th ward, she also offer-
ed prayer for all the sick and afflicted in
which the sisters all united.
	Sister Catherine Layne felt the prayer
would be answered and the sick recover
who had been specially mentioned.
	Sisters Buzzo, Langton, and others spoke
on faith and humility. Sisters E. Webb
and J. C. Howe spoke upon the education
and training of the children properly. The
benediction was pronounced by Sister A. F.
Wardoup.
	At the meeting in November, Saturday
11th, opening prayer was offered by Gen-
eral President Bathsheba W. Smith, the
subject of the first part of the meeting was
Sister Horne’s faithfulness for so many
years, and of the near approach of her 85th
birthday, also spoke upon charity for each
other; prophecies of Joseph Smith now being
fulfilled. Sisters Davis S. J. Cannon, M.
Morris, E. Paul H. Peterson, E. Langton,
N. Saunders and H. Lapish all spoke en-

[Column 2]
couragingly and urged all to faithfulness,
and also referred to the trials of the people
in the past as contrasted with the present
time. General President Bathsheba W.
Smith spoke of the temple work and urged
the sisters to be diligent in doing their
temple work; referred to the Book of Nephi
where it spoke of the Savior appealing to
the people, how He healed the sick and af-
flicted, and blest them, said “The Lord will
lift the cloud from us if we will be humble
and true to our covenants.”
	Sisters Niebaur Nelson and Peterson
spoke upon sympathy, Sisters Luff and De
Mott bore faithful testimonies. Meeting ad-
journed until Saturday after Christmas.

	At the meeting December 26, 1903,
Counselor Elizabeth Webb presided, prayer
was offered by Counselor S. J. Cannon.
Sister Webb addressed the sisters upon
purity of life, rectitude of conduct and the
guidance of our children. Sister Amelia F.
Wardroup thought we should keep our
promises to our children and to one another,
that confidence may not be weakened and
we should keep the covenants we make
with the Lord, for He is true to His chil-
dren.
	Sister Julia C<. H>owe said the love of
God is with us when we do right we should
walk in the straight and narrow way that
leads to life and salvation.
	Counselor S. J. Cannon thought we
should be careful in our conversation; if we
cannot speak well of any one it is not
necessary to speak of them at all; told
the sisters that President Horne was very
sick; she had sent her love to the sisters
and hoped she would soon be able to meet
with them again.
	Sister Jane C. Young thought we should
always keep faithfully the promises we
make, related an instance where a child’s
confidence was utterly destroyed by a brok-
en promise.
	Sister Langton spoke of the trying times
in which we are living, these persecutions
are for good, but only those who live near
to the Lord will come off triumphant in the
end.
	Sisters De Mott and Peterson bore ex-
cellent testimonies, and Sister Rebecca
Brown testified that she knew Joseph Smith
was a Prophet of God, she had joined the
Church when a child of fourteen years, bore
strong testimony of the gift of healing the
sick and felt we should live the lives of
saints in very deed.
	Sister Mary E. Irvine felt to acknowledge
the hand of the Lord in all things, and
seek for strength to bear our trials and put
trust in our Heavenly Father not only with
our lips but by living our religion.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith bore a
powerful testimony and hoped Sister Horne
would be with us in the New Year. Coun-
selor Webb presented the greetings of the
season with love and the meeting adjourned
with prayer by Sister Mary P. Silver.

	The first meeting in the new year 1904
was held Saturday, January 23. Counselor
Stevenson presiding, prayer by Counselor
Webb. Sister Stevenson addressed the
sisters, referring to the changes about to be
made in dividing Salt Lake Stake, thought
we should be careful how we live and re-
joice in the persecutions and trust in the
Lord and pray for help, we should not
qnench the spirit in these meetings but bear


[Column 1]
testimony and serve the Lord with all our
might, mind and strength; spoke lovingly
of Sister Horne and her great labors among
the Saints in Zion. Counselor S. J. Cannon
rejoiced in these meetings spoke of the love
of Sister Horne for tLe sisters with whom
she had been associated so many years and
said in two weeks we shall hold the Salt
Lake Stake Conference in the Assembly
Hall and urged all the sisters to attend, it
would be the last Conference of the Stake
as it is now; she delivered a message from
President Horne to the sisters to be sure
and take care of the poor and especially
those that are backward in making their
wants known. The Relief Society is a
great benefit and blessing to us all; we have
ail worked hard, but it is those that prove
faithful unto the end who receive the re-
ward.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon said she re-
ceived consolation and strength in attend-
ing these meetings, thought we had no
time to trifle away, believed there were
great changes coming to us, felt it was
good to bear testimony.
	Sister Gardener and another sister bore
good testimonies referred to the Savior’s
beautiful example and precepts.
	Stake Secretary Julia S. Woolley spoke
of the need of charity, and said she felt the
dividing of the Salt Lake Stake was a good
move and inspired of the Lord, it would
give more sisters a chance to work in the
organizations, spoke feelingly of our chil-
dren, and referred to the goodness of Sister
Horne for so many years.
	General President Bathsheba W. Smith
bore her testimony and referred to the time
when these meetings were first organized,
how many good sisters, have been here in
times gone by, she felt good to be here on
account of the many happy times we have
had here. After some others had spoken
the meeting adjourned, benediction by
Sister E. Paul.

	The Ladies’ meeting held Saturday, Feb.
27, 1904. Counselor E. J. Stevenson presid-
ing she gave a very interesting talk to the
sisters of her trip south and to California;
where she saw orchards of oranges and
bananas; mentioned more especially of the
native Indians in Phoenix, Arizona, how
they occupied their time--attended govern-
ment schools and were being educated,
thought they were becoming intelligent and
she felt they were blessed of the Lord, she
visited a Lamanite family where the man
was Counselor to the Bishop of Papago
ward, and then the native women are a
great help to the white women by washing
for them, they are learning to sew: said the
Relief Society sisters had done all they
could in teaching and helping them; she
also spoke quite feelingly of the sisters in
Mexico, met many who had lived in Salt
Lake years ago.
	Sister Rebecca Brown said we should sew
seeds of charity and strive to be better
every day. Sister Martha Morris sang a
hymn. Counselor Sarah Jenne Cannon was
pleased to hear of the Lamanites being
taught in the way they are in Arizona, said

[Column 2]
she enjoyed reading the Book of Mormon
made a practice of reading it through every
year; spoke of many interesting things, and
closed by adding that she thought Sister
Horne would soon be with us again.
	Sister Martha Read spoke of our bless-
ings and also of our sufferings. Sister C. J.
Thomas desired to live worthy to go to
Jackson County with the Saints hoped the
time would come when we will be united
in all things. Sister Catherine Layne felt
glad to hear about the Lamanites, “they
are a great people, it is good to hear they
are coming forth in the Gospel, desire to
have the privilege of going among them as
a missionary.”
	Sisters Peterson, and Brown, bore testi-
mony and Sister Mary Mair who spoke of
the time of Johnson’s army, the poverty
of the Saints at that time, but through the
blessings of the Lord the people were re-
lieved.
	Sister Martha Morris sang a hymn and
bore her testimony and talked upon the
blessings of obedience.
	Sister Hook in speaking referred to her
friend iness towards the Indians. Sister
Madson had been greatly blessed in getting
her genealogy to work in the Temple.
Meeting adjourned with benediction by
Counselor Elizabeth Webb.
			AMELIA F. WARDOUP,
						Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS 1904-5.
	The Relief Society Nurse Class will com-
mence September 19, 1904, continuing
eight months. Four lessons a week will 
be given by Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, the
class instructor, and lectures by other phy-
sicians and surgeons of Salt Lake City.
There will also be a course of lectures on
cooking and other important subjects con-
nected with the nurse profession by mem-
bers of the General Board of the Relief So-
ciety or by those whom they may appoint.
	Students wishing to take the nurse course
and not previously provided with places to
stay during the term will have an oppor-
tunity of getting good homes where they
can at least earn enough to pay for their 
board and room. It would be advisable for
those intending coming from a distance, to
be  here a few days before the class com-
mences in order to have time to get settled
in such places, during which few days they
will be provided for. Call on Mrs. P. Y.
Beatie, secretary, 55 N. West Temple.
		EMMA A EMPEY,
	Supt. Relief Society Nurse Classes

	Obstetrical class commences Monday,
October 10, 1904. Tuition, $40.00; books,
$4 00 to $7 00, Ten dollars less will be
charged to those who attend Relief Society
Nurse Class.
	Ladies taking both classes, it might be
advisable if several could club together,
rent rooms and board themselves.
	MARGARET C. ROBERTS Instructor.

DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
	Will open a class in Nursing and Ob-
	stetrics on Monday, Oct. 10, 1904, at
	her home, 713 Second Street, Salt Lake 
	City. Those desiring to attend will
	please communicate personally or by
	letter. This class recommended by the
	General Board of the Relief Society.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
	No 1 Main Street.

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
					AND NURSING.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt will commence her
class in Midwifery and Nursing October 10, 1904.
	One student free. Write for particulars.
	This class recommended by the General
Board of the Relief Society.


A correspondent of the “Spectator” tells
the following story of the time when it was
feared that Holland would be absorbed in
the newly-federated German Empire. A
Dutch diplomatist of high position on a visit
to Berlin was attending a review at Pots-
dam, and Bismarck, who had him in charge
and was anxious to impress him to the ut-
most with the military spectacle, was sur
prised, as regiment after regiment went by
at his invariable comment, “Not tall
enough—not tall enough!”At length a
Guards battalion of particularly fine phy-
sique; having passed, was received with the
same “Not tall enough!” and Bismarck,
nettled asked the Hollander how he could
expect to see anywhere finer men than
these before him. The answer was, “Yes,
they are tall, but when we open the dykes
in Holland we can flood the country to ten
feet, so your soldiers would be still not tall
enough!” Another correspondent gives
a different version of the story. He was in
Rotterdam in 1877, and mentioned the ru-


mored German intentions to the Dutch
pilot of the ship in which he was sailing.
“Oh, the Germans will never come here,”
replied the man—if they do, we will open
the dykes, and—Bismarck is not able to
swim!”


OBSTETRICS

	Dr. Margaret G. Roberts
Will commence her next class in Obstet-
rics on Monday, October 10, 1904. This
class will also have the advantage of at-
tending the Relief Society Nurse
Class taught by Dr. Roberts. For fur-
ther information, communicate with Dr.
Roberts, 79 C Street. Telephone 2002.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

				Vol. 33	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST, 1904	No. 3.


CONTENTS.
King George’s Birthday...........Lydia D. Alder	17
A Strong Testimony...............Sarah B. Layton	18
Annual Meeting D. R.......................... E.B.W.	18
Call for the Sixth Annual Demonstration........
......................................... May Wright Sewall	19
Relief Society Reports.....................................	20
In Memoriam ......................Lizzie Lee Butler	22
Mothers’ Work.................................................	22
National Council of Women—United States...
..........................................May Wright Sewall	23
EDITORIAL—Business Meeting N. W. R. S..	20
	Relief Society Conference ............................	20
	Hopeful Signs...........................................	20
Editorial Notes .................................................	20
POETRY—Peace...................... Ernest Crosby	17
	The Earth is the Lord’s..........A. L, Fisher	17
	The Floating Tea Party......Lydia D. Alder	19
	Peace Rallying Song ...........................Ex.	19


PEACE.
Peace, O Peace, when will the nation
	Lift its eyes and understand
How Thou holdest all creation
	In the hollow of Thy hand?

Thine the strength that stays the ocean
	Hypnotized beneath lts bed;
Thine the power that keeps in motion
	Constellations overhead.

Thine the orb of love afire;
	Lighting up the heavens profound;
Thine the suns that never tire
	Swinging planets round and round.

Thine the furnaces white-heated,
	Where they forge the cosmic powers--
Where the sons of God once greeted
	This new-fashioned world of ours;

Thine the strength, serene, unshaken,
	Which can master self alone,
Quelling passions when they waken,
	From Thy calm eternal throne.

Insult, hatred cannot reach Thee
	At that still, majestic height.
Make us conscious, we beseech Thee,
	Of our own reserves of might.

Teach us, while the battle rages,
	What we never understood:
This the mystery of the ages—
	Evil overcome by good.

Far above the storms and thunders,
	Far above the war and strife,
Far above our sins and blunders,
	At the source of strength and life—

There I see Thy hand commanding,
	With the olive branch for rod,
Peace that passeth understanding!
	Spirit of Almighty God!
					ERNEST CROSBY.


“THE EARTH IS THE LORD’S.”
All men are brothers, and God is their Father, 
	He made the earth with its blessings for all,
In His pure sight only meekness is mighty
	Beyond His care not a sparrow can fall.

His is the gold; His is also the silver;
	His are the flocks on a thousand green hills;
From the grand Orb of Day to the spring by the
		wayside
	All is His own; each His purpose fulfils.


Man gains no riches by robbing his brother;
	Nor grows he poor when supplying his need.
Each can enjoy but the portion God gives him;
	None may increase it by hoarding or greed.

Why should man strive for the wealth that must
		perish?
	Why freeze his heart for the hard yellow gold?
Gold never purchased one smile of affection,
	Nor could it kindle a friendship grown cold.

Love is God’s coin, with His image upon it;
	“In God we Trust” is its motto and sign;
This is the coin that is current forever, 
	Made in the mint of a nature divine.

Then, brother man, gain love for your brother?
	Come from your warfare of hatred and tears!
Be not content with the “flesh-pots of Egypt,”
	Gird on your strength, for the day-star appears.
						A. L. FISHER.


[Column 1]
KING GEORGE’S BIRTHDAY.
	King George of Saxony, was seventy-
two years old, on Aug. 8, 1904.
	The day was observed as a holiday in
Saxony. The German flag, and student’s
flags of green and white, and blue and yel-
low were flying in the breeze, the discharge
of guns, and cannon’s thundering roar.
Manuevers of troops, were also a feature of
the day’s celebration, in Dresden, Leipzig,
and other cities.
	In the evening, over the entrance door of
the old Raut Haus, Leipzig, a crown, about
three feet high, and two sun burst stars,
about two feet high, formed entirely of
small gas jets, was sparkling and glisten-
ing, as though composed of diamonds.
	The glittering spectacle, lighted the
whole of the old market square, used long
ago for a market. The Saxon coat of arms
are inlaid, in fine stones, in its pavement
still, right in front of the gleaming insig-
nia of royalty. The Raut Haus was used
by Napoleon to stable his horses in as well
as the churches, during his raid on this
land 1813.  It is a queer but well preserved
looking building. King George is not be-
loved by his people, as he demanded a raise
of two million marks annually, more than
was paid to his brother, the late King
Abucht. The result of this was, that when
the people paid their taxes, a slip of paper
was handed each one, for twenty-five per
cent more, for the crown, so that those who
struggled hard before for the common ne-
cessities of life, had their burdens heavily
increased, on the women directly or indi-
rectly much of this falls.
	It was a beautiful day, cool and free
from dust, as it had rained the day before.
A picnic had been arranged by a number
of friends. We were to go to a milk gar-
den four or five miles in the country where
milk fresh and sweet could be obtained. On
either said of the road, were rows of fruit
trees heavily laden, yet no one touched
them. We passed large fields of grain some
stacked ready for thrashing, in others the
gleaners were gathering up the remnants
of the harvest. But in every case it was
women, not a man to be seen. The only

[Column 2]
sight of the kind ever witnessed by the
writer there in full operation was a thrash-
ing machine, run entirely by women!
“Where are the men?” was asked. “Learn-
ing to be soldiers,” was the reply. Learn-
ing to be soldiers! Learning to be stood up
to be shot at, learning to be exiled to a bar-
racks life, every young man forced to give
two years of his life to the ruler, which is a
sore expense to his parents, if they are poor,
as of course, the most are.
	Never can they rise above the ranks,
never be advanced.
	The sons of the nobility are there for dis-
tinction and rule. Any of these officers,
for the first ten years of service, are paid
only about sixty marks a month ($15 00)
after that perhaps a hundred marks a month
and they are required to dress handsomely,
and live in like manner. So that of neces-
sity they must marry money, while the
poor cannot afford to marry at all unless the
wife carries the whole burden of life. Thus
it is that about one third, it is estimated, of
the population of monarchial countries, is
illegitimate.
	But recently, a circumstance came to the
knowledge of the writer, a respectable, but
poor widow, was taking care of two such
children, for which she was paid a pittance.
One was two months old, the other seven.
The father of the youngest child is a sold-
ier, so the poor, erring young girl must
pay for its support herself, while the father
of the other one, pays three marks a week
(75 cents) and the mother two marks for its
care. This is the second child born to this
pair, the first having died. They say they
are too poor to marry. “The outlook is
hopeless,” they say, unless they both work
and both save. It seems many, start life
this way, then after they are married, take
the other children home.
	But more often, either father or mother,
or both, go to some other part, forsaking
the helpless one, and leaving it to the tend-
er mercies of the poor house officials. A
woman, who was not paid for such a child,
according to the stipulation, decided to
turn it over to the county, but she was in-
formed, she would have to do the best she
could, as they were unable to take it, hav-
ing a thousand such children, already in the
institution, and it is not a very large city
either. O, the hardships of women and
children, and their degradation! And yet
their King, is the wealthiest monarch in
Europe. Near the farm we visited, a piti-
able object was standing by a gate. Perhaps
thirty years of age, a babe in her arms; a
common stuff skirt, old and shabby, came
just below her knees, on her feet a coarse
pair of shoes, and no stockings this com-
pleted her attire.
	She was not a common looking woman,
either; patience was written on her face,
and there was a trace, of what under hap-
pier conditions, would be termed “woman-
liness.” The farm women, carry a basket,
which bolds about two bushels (our meas-
ure) made square but deep, the corners have
a strong willow stick, about two inches
lower than the bottom of the basket, a


strap is fastened to the basket, with which
they bind it across their chests, then they
deftly wind it around two of the sticks, at
the bottom of the basket and tie it around
their waists.
	They seem to be strong, healthy and
happy. Their lot is certainly preferable to
that of the field women. Of the latter, it
is said, many come from Poland, work all
summer, then return to their own land. It
seems since the dismemberment of that ill
fated country, the people are desperately
poor, hence the situation of the women.
	How untiring they work, only raising
their bent backs for a moment, as they see
an unusual number of women passing so
unlike themselves.
	A fat yoke of oxen, are being fastened to
a wagon, a span of horses hitched to the
tongue. They had a head piece made of
wood, across their foreheads, which was
held by a kind of harness to the body. They
step proudly as they draw the load along,
even they look better than the poor women
in the fields. The working hours of a team
are not nearly so many as those of the wo-
men, teams are never worked like women,
and these are the mothers or wives of men!
	O, how far from the sphere, in which
God placed her as the helpmeet of man, not
a slave.
	On our return walk, some one asked the
question “do the frauen (women) work like
that in America?”
	Answer ye, from every hamlet of that
fair land! It is said that on the occassion of
the king’s recent visit to Rome he gave the
Pope 1,000,000 marks and that while the
people are Protestants he and Court are
Catholic.
			LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		A STRONG TESTIMONY.
Editors Womans Exponent.
	I have been thinking for some time that
I would again like to bear my testimony to
the truth of the everlasting gospel, that
was revealed to the youthful prophet Joseph
Smith. I have not seen the prophet but I
have read for myself many of his predic-
tions and know that they are true. I have
been a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints for over sixty-
two years and have never found anything
in all that time but what is in accordance
with the word of God. Is there a man upon
the earth today who is unguided by the
spirit of God, who could perform so great a
work in such a short time? I say no, there
is not, he lived as he died a martyer to
truth. Our Savior gave his life as a sacri-
fice for us that we may through obedience
to his laws gain eternal life, but the wicked
did not deem Him worthy to live.
	Did not Joseph Smith teach the same
principles and did not that same wicked
spirit follow him until his life was taken, for
no wrong that he himself had committed,
he went about doing good and teaching all
who would listen to his testimony which he
received direct from our Heavenly Father
and who would dare to deny it. Why do
the world close their eyes to the things
taught them by the servants of God? Why
will they take the downward course, is it
because they love darkness better than
light? The saints of God have nothing to
fear, if we will live up to the laws and com-
mandments of God as they have been laid

[Column 2]
down for us to live by, they will save and
exalt us in the kingdom of God; we know
for a surety that this work is of God, we
also know that the principle of plural mar-
riage was revealed to Joseph Smith from
our Father in heaven and is true and if we
live faithful to our covenants we will be ex-
alted in the kingdom of our Father, we
have nothing to fear but ourselves, will we
be true to ourselves and to our leaders? We
know they are men called of God to carry
on this great and mighty work and no
power beneath the heavens can stop its pro-
gress, the honest in heart will be gathered
from out the world and the wicked will be
cut off, and this earth will be redeemed and
Jesus Christ will come in the clouds of
heaven and reign upon the earth with all
those who remain faithful to the end. With
this knowledge what kind of Saints ought
we to be, we should be very careful never
to put a stumbling block in the way of
those who are constantly watching us, let
our lights shine and give no one a chance
to speak evil of us truthfully; but try to
live above reproach, we have our own rec-
ord to make, we make it each day of our
lives and will have it to meet let it be good
or bad. Then let us be very careful indeed
that we may feel proud and not ashamed
when the books are opened to us. Our
Father is very kind and merciful to us. I
often think we do not appreciate enough
the many blessings He is pouring out upon
his children, we are preserved from the cal-
amities which are daily being poured out
upon the nations of the earth; if we will in-
dulge in the pleasures of the world then we
must partake of her plagues. Those who
have been faithfully warned, and have
treated with contempt the truth will have
to meet it face to face.
	We should at all times be ready to give a
reason for the hope within us, always be
ready to bear our testimony to those who
will listen, we should never allow any one
to speak lightly of any of the principles of
the gospel, and woe to that people or nation
who shall lift their voice against the Saints
and woe unto those who are fighting against
God for He will as predicted come out from
his hiding place and vex the nations with
sore destructions.
	If we are faithful the Lord will fight our
battles and the small stone that was cut out
of the mountains without hands will roll
forth until it fills the whole earth, and no
power beneath heaven can stop it. The Lat-
ter-day Saints do not rely upon the arm of
flesh, they put their trust in that God who
led Israel out of bondage, and who has led
the Latter-day Saints through all their
trials of driving mobbing persecutions and
which they have endured for the Gospel’s
sake. And those who have lifted their hand
to stay the work of God will have to pay
the bill. I have seen many fall by the way-
side, but it has been those who have built
their faith upon a sandy foundation, those
who have built upon the rock stand firmer
and can not be shaken; but they will grow
and increase, until the perfect day. I feel
now that the whole world is arrayed against
us, we should be as wise as serpents, and
mind our own business, and the Lord will
pilot the old ship Zion safely into port, with
the faithful who have borne their cross, and
who have never doubted, this is my testi-
mony to all the world.
			Your sister in the gospel,
				SARAH B. LAYTON,
Kaysville, August 15, 1904.


ANNUAL MEETING D. R.
	The annual meeting of the Utah State
Society daughters of the Revolution was
held on Friday, June 10, 1904, at 10:30 in
room 509 Templeton Building, Salt Lake
City, Regent Isabel M. Whitney Sears pre-
siding, a majority of members present.
After prayer, the secretary, Mrs. Lucy
Woodruff Smith, read the minutes of the
May meeting and the last annual meeting,
June 10, 1903. The minutes of both meet-
ings were approved.
	A letter was read from the General Soci-
ety D. R. acknowledging the ten dollars
given by the Utah Society towards the tes-
timonial tendered to Miss Adeline W. Ster-
ling, the retiring Pre[-]ident General. Letter
was read from Mrs. Julia P.M. Farnsworth,
Chaplain, who was absent in Beaver at the
time, expressing her good wishes, and re-
gret at being away on so important an oc-
casion.
	Reports were then given by the officers
who had served during the past year. The
Regent, Mrs. I. M. W. Sears, referred to
the report made by her to the General So-
ciety, and expressed briefly her great pleas-
ure in the year’s work, thanking the mem-
bers for their support. Reports were given
by First Vice-Regent, Mrs. Phebe Young
Beatie, and S cond Vice-Regent, Mrs. Myra
Young Rossiter, Rec Sec’y, Mrs. Lucy W.
Smith, Cor. Sec’y, Mrs. Florence S. Sears,
Treasurer, Mrs. Elizabeth R. Wright, Reg-
istrar, Mrs. Maria Young Dougall, and
Historian, Mrs. E. B. Wells.
	It was moved by Mrs. Annie L. King,
seconded by Mrs. Ella W. Hyde, that all
the reports be accepted with thanks—car-
ried. It was moved by Mrs. Beatie and
seconded by several that a full report of the
meeting, including the Regent’s report,
to the General Society, be published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT—carried.
	Regent announced that the next business
would be the election of officers for the en-
suing year. The following members were
elected, nominations from the floor:
	Regent, Mrs. Phebe Young Beatie; First
Vice-Regent, Mrs Mary E. R. Webber;
Second Vice-Regent, Mrs. Annie Louise L.
King; Rec. Sec’y, Mrs. Clarissa Y. Spencer;
Asst. Sec’y, Mrs. Carol Y. Cannon; Cor.
Sec’y, Mrs. I. M. W. Sears; Treas., Mrs. Ella
W. Hyde; Registrar, Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall;
Historian, Mrs. E. B. Wells; Chaplain,
Mrs. Lucy W. Smith.
	Vacancies in the Council will be filled by
appointment of the Regent later. Annual
meeting closed with prayer and adjourned
to June 10, 1904.	E. B- W.


The Duke of Norfolk’s carelessness of
rank and homely manner make it almost
impossible to think of him as a duke.
There is probably some truth in the stories
which have their origin in his disregard of
dress. The Duke was going to Stonyhurst
College for Speech day, and a carriage met
him at the railway station, Two tall and
well-dressed gentlemen preceded him, and
as they reached the carriage an official
asked, “Stonyhurst, College, gentlemen?”
Upon replying “Yes,” they were allowed
to enter the carriage. Behind them came a
man not by any means faultlessly dressed,
and as he was about to step into the carri-
age the official said, “Stand away, please—
Duke of Norfolk’s carriage!” “Yes, I
know,” said the other,—“I am the Duke
of Norfolk!”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the Exponent.]
THE FLOATING TEA PARTY.
A MEMORY OF BERLIN.
From Wansu's pier we sail away,
	Adown the Havel fair;
By verdant banks and castles gray,
	Bright sunshine in the air.
How clear the water shimm’ring flows,
	As swift we speed along!
The small craft ever by us goes, 
With greeting and with song.
The band plays in the steamer’s bow,
	Songs famed in ev’ry land,
No foreign thought these guests allow,
	Where warm is proffered friendship’s hand.
O, Potsdam rising there in view,
	Where palaces abound;
Of thee come mem’ries not a few,
	Thy grandeur all around.
And there dwelt lovely Queen Louise,
	So famed in history;
The palace almost hid by trees,
	Her refuge proved to be.
Though many years have passed away.
	She is beloved still;
Her virtues living e’en today,—
	And they pure thoughts instil
Romantic, green is yonder isle,
	The steamer circles round;
While strains of music e’er beguile
The throng, with restful sound.
All hearts are beating full of praise,
	For honor freely shown.
The dainty viands—German ways,
	Politeness all their own.
All hail Berlin, most generous host!
	All hail: Berlin the fair;
‘‘Yet greater be” this is our toast.
	Thou city of “The Bear.”
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


PEACE RALLYING SONG.
	Sung by by Maria Freeman Gray at annual
supper of Pennsylvania Peace Society.

Again we see the glory of the coming of the
	Lord,
Again we hear a trumpet calling men to march
	aboard,
And unsheath again the lightning of Truth’s two-
	edged sword.
		For God is marching on.

We see an army forming in the tumults of the
	mart,
In the striving of the Nation, in the pulsing of her
	heart,
White her lips and pale her features; yet we see the
	people start, 
		For God is marching on.

It is the peaceful rousing, yet ’tis mightier than
	war,
’Tis a moving of the humble; yet they never shall
	withdraw.
Until Justice, Right and Freedom have been re-
	alized in law.
		For truth is marching on.

Through ages comes our message, “Love is truest
	liberty,
And the nation that is righteous is the nation that
	is free,
Hear ye, souls of men, a message that transfigures
	history.
		For God is marching on.

The brave and true then rally at the sound of
	marching feet
For we answer to a trumpet that shall never call
	retreat.
And we march beneath a banner that shall never
	know defeat,
		While God goes marching on.—Ex
	The above is a peace version of Julia Ward
Howe’s “Battle Hymn of the Republic.”


[Column 1]
CALL FOR THE SIXTH ANNUAL DEMON-
			STRATION.
ON BEHALF OF PEACE AND ARBITRATION.

	The Demonstration for Peace set as an
Annual Festival to be celebrated on each
recurring 18th of May was last spring, for
good and sufficient reason postponed. This
Demonstration will take place on October
8th. A letter has been issued to the Presi-
dents of National Organizations affiliated
with the National Council and to Presi-
dents of Local Councils and to members
of the Committee which we hope will result
in the following preparations for the Dem-
onstration.
	First: Clergymen throughout the coun-
try will be asked to devote one service on
Sunday, October 2nd to some phase of the
general subject of Peace and Arbitration.
Owing to the fact that the Thirteenth In-
ternational Congress of Peace is to open in
Boston on Monday, October 3d, the pastors
of the leading churches of that city have
already arranged to devote their morning
service to Peace. This should be an aid in
securing the attention of clergymen through-
out the country to the subject.
	Second: The aid of the Press is again in-
voked. It is hoped that local committees
on press will be organized in hundreds of
communities—that these committees will
put themselves into such relation with the
local press that the public mind may be
prepared for the special service on October
2nd and for the Demonstration on October
8th.
	Third: As the Thirteenth International
Peace Congress will occupy the first week
in October, it seems wise to avail ourselves
of the impetus to interest which must be
given by it, and to convene the Demon-
stration on Saturday, October 8th. The
hour for the meeting is not specified, since
every committee in making its arrange-
ments should be left free to consult local
tastes and local conditions. All members
of this committee and all members of sub-
committees charged with the arrangement
of programs are asked to see to it that
speakers and other participants are chosen
in about equal numbers from both political
parties and from various religious faiths,
since to be most successful the movement
must be in form what it certainly is in
spirit, entirely non-partisan and non-sectar-
an.
	Fourth: As in former Demonstrations re-
solutions of sympathy with women in other
countries will be submitted, and also in
order to test the feeling of the country and
to ascertain to what degree the attitude of
the International Council in Berlin is sup-
ported by public favor, votes of support will
be asked for the four propositions unanim-
ously voted at Berlin which in substance
were as follows—
	(a) The Council undertakes to continue
its scheme of popular education upon this
subject by preparing a bibliography in the
three official languages of the International
Council viz:—(English, French and Ger-
man) which shall include the best brief
presentations and appeals. These it will
undertake to distribute widely in all of the
countries belonging to the Council.
	(b) The Council asks each affiliated Nat-
onal Council to organize a committee of in-
vestigation whose business it shall be to
make a careful inspection of the histories
that are now being taught in the common 
schools of their respective lands. It is be-

[Column 2]
lieved by those introducing this proposi-
tion that it will be found that in many re-
spects these histories are calculated to fill
the minds of students with vanity, arro-
gance and prejudice. The object in making
such an inspection is to secure books which
will instil nobler ideas of patriotism and
which will reduce military achievment to
its proper place and give to the achievments
of Science, Art, and Industry their rightful
recognition.
	(c) It is desired that the Peace Tri-color
of royal purple, white and golden yellow
which was adopted by the Council as its
emblem shall be used at all meetings held
in connection with this Demonstration.
	It is hoped that the distinguished work-
ers for Peace from foreign countries who
will come over to the Thirteenth Interna-
tional Congress will remain in this country,
and that their services will be secured in
many places for independent Peace Meet-
ings. For information and for literature
concerning the Congress, and also concern-
ing foreign delegates who are to attend it
application may be made to Mr. Benjamin
F. Trueblood, the Secretary of the Commit-
tee of Organization 31 Beacon, St. Boston,
Mass.
	Bespeaking the earnest help of all whose
eyes may fall upon this public letter, hop-
ing that the Demonstration held under
such favorable auspices as must almost
necessarily be secured bv its being coincid-
ent with the close of the Boston Congress,
will surpass all preceding Demonstrations,
and thanking all of my co-workers in ad-
vance for the aid which they will lend to
this end, I have the honor to subscribe my-
self,
			MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
	Chairman of Committee on Peace and
Arbitration for the National Council of Wo-
men of the United States.
	August 15, 1904. Indianapolis, Ind.


ED[--]ORIAL NOTES.
	Errata: The Outline of Lectures for
Liberty Stake which appeared in our July
number of the paper should have been
signed Amanda F. Done, Laura L. Tanner,
Anna B. E. Iverson, Committee, instead of
the names that were appended. We are
very glad to make the correction.
	Stakes visited in the month of August
officially by the Relief Society sisters, are
Ensign, by President Bathsheba W. Smith,
and Sister Clarissa S. Williams; Cassia and
Union, Sisters Elizabeth J. Stevenson and
Hattie B. Harker; Juab, Sisters Clarissa S.
Williams and Alice M. Horne; Morgan and
Woodruff, Sisters Rebecca E. Little and
Annie Kay Hardy; Wayne, Sisters Sarah
J. Jenne Cannon and Susan Grant; Millard,
Sisters Mary Alice Lambert and Carrie S.
Thomas; Bingham, Fremont and Teton
Stakes, Sisters Margaret A. Caine and
Clara L. Clawson. Besides Stakes some
branches of the Relief Society have been
visited recently. Portland, Oregon, by
Sister E. J. Stevenson; Emmet, Sister H.
B. Harker, who also visited Denver and
Pueblo; Jackson’s Hole, in Idaho, by Sis-
ters M. A. Caine and C. L. Clawson. Sister
E. J. Stevenson also visited Emler, Baker
City, and Indian Valley. Sister C. C. R.
Wells visited Butte, Montana.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah 
Terms one copy one ear, $1.00 one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST, 1904


BUSINESS MEETING N. W. R. S.
	The annual business meeting of the Na-
tional Woman’s Relief Society will be held
on the first Monday in October (the 3rd)
commencing at 2 p. m. sharp, in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall in this city. All
members are invited to be present.
		BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
					General President.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
					General Secretary.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE. 
	The October Conference of the General 
Relief Society will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this city Wednesday 
Oct. 5, 1904, meetings commencing at 10
a. m. and at 2 p. m. as usual. All officers 
and members of the Society are cordially 
invited. It is desirable there should be an
authorized representative from each Stake 
organization if the President cannot be 
present. Presiding authorities of the Church 
Bishops and brethren interested in Relief 
Society work are also invited to attend the
meetings.
		BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
							President.
		ANNIE TAYLOR HYDE, 
		IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY,
							Counselors.


[Column 1]
		HOPEFUL SIGNS.
	Though war is raging in the far East at
the present time until one is sickened by
the daily telegraphic news, yet there are
some things tending towards better condi-
tions, and those who believe in the great-
ness of the near future must take into con-
sideration, not only the terrrible devastation
being made by war and its consequences,
but the struggles of many thousands, who
are laboring and praying for the more
peaceful methods of settling all difficulties
both between nations and communities.
	The great Peace meeting held in Berlin
during the late Congress of Women from
all the civilized countries of the world,
marks an epoch in the peace movement.
This peace meeting was convened last June
when the Russian-Japanese war was at its
height. It was held in Berlin, the capital
city of the most thoroughly militarized
country in Europe, viz. Germany. Not
only was the hall filled to its utmost capac-

[Column 2]
ity, but the aisles and the corridors were
packed. Speeches were made in English,
French and German, by most eloquent
and distinguished women speakers from
these countries, besides five minute speeches
from women representing each of the coun-
tries in the International Council (with
three exceptions) amid the most inspiring
enthusiasm. This may assuredly by reck-
oned one of the hopeful signs of the
times.
	The Inter-parliamentary Congress to be
held in St. Louis in September will no
doubt create a strong, and it is ardently
hoped, lasting impression upon the subjects
of peace and arbitration, as that Congrest
is to be composed of men;—the world’s
great and learned men; celebrated for their
wisdom and knowledge; men of world-wide
reputation filling high places in their native
countries.
	The Universal Peace Congress to be
convened in Boston Mass. the first week
in October will surely be another hopeful
sign; this great gathering will be composed
of both men and women; and in the blend-
ing together of these two strong forces a
better solution of great problems is likely
to be made, than where only men discuss
grave questions alone, even though congre-
gated in the world’s great Councils. The
agitation of the sentiment of peace from
one part of the country to another and from
country to country, through peace literature,
peace discussions and peace meetings is all
educational in the best sense of the word,
tending towards that higher ideal, that
broader intelligence, and better method of
comradeship which will inculcate love in-
stead of revenge, welding a sympathetic
bond between nations and individuals they
will eventually develop plans for settling
many of the gravest questions amicably
through arbitration, and thus promote a
higher attitude in the conduct of the world’s
work than that which has prevailed when
war the “resort to arms” was the watch-
word among the greatest and most power-
ful empires of the world.
	Notwithstanding the opinion that war
is necessary largely prevailing among many
peoples, yet there are powerful agen-
cies working in the opposite direction for
loftier and holier purposes than the destruc-
tion of immortal souls. It seems most fit-
ting that women the mothers of the race
should array themselves on the side of
peace. It is a matter of rejoicing that so
much is being done this present year, and
though the results may not be apparent in
fact, yet the growth of sentiment will be
spreading and the light that has come into
the world permeating the darkness will
grow brighter and brighter, and the con-
tact of peoples one with the other through
better facilities of travel will ultimately
bring all nations to a better understanding
of correct methods, and the Golden rule ap-
plied to all the relations of life and all the
governments of the world, will help bring
about the time when there shall be no more
war nor slaying of any living thing.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
ST. JOSEPH STAKE.
	Relief Society conference of the St. Joseph
Stake was held in the Layton meeting
house, June 11th, 1904. First Counselor
Salina Phillips conducting the meeting.

[Column 2]
Our conference was out of the usual in that
we met on Saturday in connection with
the Stake Quarterly Conference. By the
kindness of the presiding brethren we oc- 
cupied the whole day.
	President Elizabeth Layton reported that
all the ward organizations of the Relief So-
ciety had been visited by members of the
Stake Board since our last conference.
Found them all in good condition with an
increase of attendance. Said Relief Society
work brings out and develops the very
best qualities in human nature.
	All the wards were reported by their res-
pective presidents with the exception of St.
David, Matthews and Hubbard.
	The following subjects were talked on by
Sarah Webb, Olive Kimball, Fanny Kim-
ball and Emma Coleman: Reverence, nurs-
ing, obedience and child’s rights.
	The speakers were President Andrew
Kimball, C. M. Layton and W. D. John-
son, who emphasized the importance of re-
ducing to practice the good things we hear.
Advised parents to keep their children
children as long as possible, instead of try-
ing to push them ahead. Find employment
for them, keep them at home, especially at
night. Relief Society members are among
the best members in the Church. Keep
your bodies clean. Be cleanly in your 
homes, and the Lord will bless you.
	Patriarch Philemon Merrill dwelt upon
the prophecies of Joseph and Hyrum Smith
and the fulfillment of the same. 
	The day’s exercises were interspersed
with songs and recitations, which in all
was a very profitable and pleasing time.
		SARAH WEBB,
			Corresponding Secretary.

			ALPINE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Alpine Stake was held at Linden,
July 16, 1904. There were present from
Salt Lake City, President Bathsheba W.
Smith, and General Secretary Emmeline
B. Wells. The brethren of the stake presi-
dency were in attendance, also the stake
board and representatives from thirteen of
the fourteen branches of the stake, Presi-
dent Rebecca Standring presiding. Meet-
ing commenced at ten a. m. with singing,
prayer and usual opening exercises.
	President Standring welcomed all and
was pleased to see so goodly a number
present; was thankful to see our beloved
president, Bathsheba W. Smith, with us,
she had labored long and faithfully, and we
should be pleased to have instruction from
her.
	Reports were given by Orpha Robinson,
American Fork first ward; Sarah S. Chip-
man, American Fork second ward: Mary E.
Abel, American Fork third ward; Minnie 
Webb, American Fork fourth ward; Marion
Anderson; Lehi first ward; Armitta Clark,
Lehi second ward. Each reported her so-
ciety fully organized and all taking their
part cheerfully. Officers and members
are united and doing all they can for the
furtherance of the work.
	President B. W. Smith had been very
much interested in hearing the reports, had
worked in the Relief Society ever since the
days of Nauvoo, was present at the first or-
ganization and is the only one living who
was there at that time; heard the Prophet
Joseph say that after that time when he
had anything to give he should give it
through the Relief Society. He also said


[Column 1]
that the Church was not fully organized un-
til the Temple should be built. The branches
of this society are all doing a great work
and are pressing forward. They are called
upon to visit the sick and the poor. Felt
well to be here today and felt to bless the
Relief Society, and hoped we would live
our religion and not forget our duties.
	General Secretary E. B. Wells was the
next speaker. Was delighted to be here
and was interested in Relief Society work.
The Relief Society is first next to the
Church organization, but it is an auxiliary.
The Prophet Joseph was the one who or-
ganized this society, and Sister Smith has
worked in the society over sixty-two years.
Thought it was too bad to leave the older
sisters to do all the work, the young wo-
men, even the girls, can easily be enrolled,
and can help with the work. This society
extends all over the world, the sun never
sets on the Relief Society. We have thirty-
three thousand members. Sister Wells
knew that Sister Standring was the right
woman to be president, and felt that the
congregation was a credit to our beloved
president, Sister Smith. The Relief Soci-
ety own sheep, cattle, buildings, wheat and
money to buy more wheat. Deplored the
fact that we have not sufficient granaries to
hold our wheat. Mothers’ work should
not take first place, because we must have
testimonies, for without testimony the work
would die out. Mothers’ work is secondary,
said if you will bear testimony whenever
you have an opportunity, you will never
apostatize.
	President James H. Clark sald there had
been a good influence here today. The
Doctrine and Covenants has a passage that
instructs the people to be self-supporting.
These valleys and hills have poured out
their wealth for us, and yet much of what
we use is imported. His attention had been
called to the subject of silk ralsing. Presi-
dent Young had recommended this and
other home industries. Referred to his sis-
ter, Mrs. Annie S. Chipman, who had raised
fifty dollars worth of silk, and it was all ac-
complished in six weeks. Believed that
the time was at hand when this industry
would be taken up and become general
among us. This amount of silk can be
produced from ten trees, which may be
raised on the ditch bank. Spoke also of
other home industries. Referred to the un-
tiring labors of President B. W. Smith, her
endurance as a pioneer, and her long con-
tinued work in the Temple.
	Afternoon session commenced by sing-
ing, prayer, etc. Reports were given by
Julia Brown, Lehi fourth ward; Loulsa
Halliday, Pleasant Grove; Cordelia Thorne,
Linden; Sarah Atwood, Manila; and Mar-
garet Bennett, Cedar Fort. All reported
their wards in good condition. Unity and
love exist, they are laying up grain and
nearly all have good granaries, and take
pleasure in looking after the poor and
needy.
	President Standring had been pleased to
hear the reports. Some arrange their
work so as to be able to attend meetings,
while others donate to the society and
never come to meeting; wondered which
would get the best reward. Felt very
grateful to the sisters of Linden for their
hospitality and kindness to us today. It
had been the desire of her heart for many
years to see the advancement of silk cul-
ture, and believed that in the near future
some brother would have a mission to start
this industry and the sisters would fall in

[Column 2]
cheerfully and raise silk in such quantity
that all may wear it.
	President Smith hoped the sisters would
take hold of silk raising and make it a suc-
cess. Continued by saying this organiza-
tion would grow and increase, and never
die out. Read from the minutes of the first
teachings of the Prophet Joseph. The signs
should follow the believer and if the sis-
ters have faith enough to heal the sick, let
all others hold their tongues. We must
act in concert or nothing can be done,
etc. Sister Smith desired to hear all testi-
fy of the Prophet Joseph. Prayed for a
blessing on all assembled.
	Song, Martha Keetch “The Holy City.”
	Brother Chas. J. Thomas, of Salt Lake
City, made a few remarks in regard to as-
sisting the poor. They should not be treat-
ed as paupers, but aided and assistedas the
Lord’s poor, in sympathy and kindness.
	President Stephen S. Chipman re-
joiced with the sisters in the visit of our
sisters from Salt Lake. We have so many
workers now, that there is no necessity of
putting too much on one person, the labor
can be properly divided and all do his share.
Had rejoiced in the spirit manifested today.
Thought it would be hard to get as many
brethren together with as good results.
Desired to endorse the remarks of President
Clarke on the subject of home industries.
The Lord has blest us and blessed be the
name of the Lord. Prayed for a blessing
on our leading sisters and all who have at-
tended today.
	Sister E. B. Wells rejoiced greatly in the
gathering today and that the sisters had
had an opportunity of hearing our beloved
president, Bathsheba W. Smith. Spoke of
the silk industry and the necessity of fol-
lowing it up, also gave a report of the
efforts that were made in years gone by,
and the silk that was manufactured and the
handsome curtains made from the silk
raised here at home, for the World’s Fair
in Chicago. “We are going to have a
Woman’s Building, and we shall want
handsome curtains for that, but we cannot
have them unless we raise the silk.” Spoke
of the necessity of sending nurses to the
nurse class. How much would we have
known but for the Relief Society; had seen
women chosen for positions when she won-
dered what they could do, and had ob-
served a wonderful development in those
persons. Bore testimony of the Prophet
Joseph as a great prophet and a great leader.
	President A. J. Evans had been delighted
today, and felt to say “God bless these
mothers in Israel. Teach your daughters
that there is no principle so important as
the law given to our first parents, to multi-
ply and replenish the earth. May God
bless the sisters who love this work. Bore
testimony to the Prophet Joseph Smith and
his divine mission.
	An anthem was sung by the Linden
choir. Closing prayer by President Abel
J. Evans. Conference adjourned for three
months.
	EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Stake Sec-

HYRUM STAKE.
	The Hyrum Stake Relief Society confer-
ence, held at Hyrum, August 19, 1904.
	After the opening exercises of singing
and prayer, the roll was called showing all
of the wards represented.
	President Nellie N. Parkinson greeted all
with a kindly welcome and expressed her
pleasure in seeing so many present. Re-
ported the stake in good condition finan-

[Column 3]
cially and spiritually, the sisters are very
liberal. Was grateful for the visit of the
sisters from Logan.
	Sister Adeline Barber, of Logan, was
pleased to meet with the sisters of the Hy-
rum Stake, had not forgotten how they had
helped her in her efforts in silk raising.
Sister Barber was dressed throughout in
home-made silk of her own raising, she
said the labor of silk raising was easy if we
had the mulberry trees.
	Sister Oldham, of Paradise, read a lec-
ture prepared by Sister Louisa Gibbs, from
the outlines of mothers’ work on parent-
hood.
	Sister Mary E. Howell was delighted to
be present and see so many of the younger
sisters, as well as the older ones who al-
ways attend these meetings. Wondered if
the younger sisters would have the cour-
age to pass through the trials that the older
sisters have passed through.
	Patriarch C. O. Card said we could not
do better than to emulate the example of
the older brethren and sisters.
	Sister Elva Parkinson recited beautifully
As the Moon Arose.”
	Sister Zina Y. Card spoke of the great
work mothers have to raise their children
right, we should watch them and guard
them against wrong doing and evil of every
kind, admonish all, not to keep company
with vulgar people, one person can contam-
inate a whole community. Teach the chil-
dren good table manners, and above all to
pray, that they may know what to do in
times of trial and temptation. We should
rule our children in love and not be harsh.
	President William C. Parkinson had al-
ways felt that the Relief Society is one of
the best helps in the Church. Its mission
is a noble one, to look after the sick and
the poor and comfort the sorrowful. Spoke
of a model home; it isn’t wealth that brings
happiness, but being kind and doing our
duty to each other.
	Afternoon session. Sister Campbell, of
Providence, was the first speaker. Referred
to woman’s great mission to bring forth
bodies for the spirits that are eagerly await-
ing a coming forth on the earth, also spoke
of family prayer.
	President I. C. Thoresen spoke of the
good work done by the sisters in looking
after the sick and poor, and also after
the spiritual welfare of those that are weak.
Urged all to go to the Temple at least
once a year.
	Counselor Elizabeth Critchlow felt that
it was a glorious privilege we have in at-
tending these meetings and one we should
appreciate and enjoy.
	Sister Jane E. Molen had been away
from the Saints for a short season, had felt
the want of the priesthood, as she had been
sick and no Elders near to administer to
her. Was glad to be at home among the
Saints again.
	Sister Salina Parks sang “Home, Sweet
Home.”
	Sister Anna M. Ralph urged the moth-
ers to visit the meetings of the Y. L. A.
occasionally and see what their daughters
were doing, also that they be companions to
their daughters.
	“The Holy City” was rendered by the
Sisters Mayer of Wellsville.
	Sister Zina Y. Card addressed the congre-
ference on the use of the franchise, showed
how it could be made a blessing to every
community by voting for the best men or
women regardless of politics.
	Georgene Ralph thought we had been


[Column 1]
greatly blessed in our meeting together. 
Hoped all would carry the good spirit and 
instructions to their homes and to the sis-
ters that were unable to be present. 
President Nellie N. Parkinson, in behalf 
of the sisters of the Stake, presented Sister 
Adeline Barber with a purse of $44.30, to 
show the esteem and love they had for her 
as the pioneer president of the Cache Stake 
Relief Society. 
While Sister Barber was composing her-
self, the Sisters Mayer again favored us 
with a song. 
Sister Barber thanked the sisters for 
their kindness. Asked the Lord to bless 
them all. 
Sister Mary Howell and President George 
Pitkin each spoke briefly. Sister Selina
Parkes sang “I know that My Redeemer
Lives.” Conference adjourned for three 
months. Benediction by Bishop H. L. 
Liljenquist. 
GEORGENE RALPH, Sec. 
WASATCH STAKE. 
The annual Relief Society conference 
of the Wasatch Stake convened on June 15,
1904, at 10 a.m and 2 p.m, in the stake 
tabernacle. Meetings were well attended 
by the general stake authorities, local offic-
ers, and sisters of the society. Sisters Car-
rie S. Thomas and Rebecca Little, repre-
senting the General Board of the Relief So-
ciety,, were also present. 
The reports from the various ward officers 
showed the condition of the work to be in 
a progressing state. A paper was read by 
Rose A. Musser, “Character laid in youth.” 
Alice Baird recited “Poorhouse Man.”
The financial condition of the branches 
of the Relief Society were shown to be in 
good condition by the report of the stake
secretary.
The visiting sisters gave excellent advice 
along the lines of Relief Society work, 
dwelling on the necessity of exercising 
kindness and charity in our labors, the 
necessity of looking after the poor and 
needy, and learning the Gospel and how to 
live it through the mother's work were em-
phasized.
President Wm. A. Smart commended the 
past work of the sisters and encouraged 
greater labors in the future; paid a glow-
ing tribute to the aged sisters, whose labors 
have done so much in the development of 
the work of the Lord in this stake of Zion, 
urged them to continue to assist in the work. 
SARAH K. DUKE, Stake Secretary. 
BOX ELDER STAKE. 
The Relief Society conference of the Box 
Elder Stake convened in the Tabernacle, 
Saturday, May 21, 1904, President Susan-
nah P. Booth presiding. On the stand 
were the stake. officers and Sister Mary 
Alice Lambert of Salt Lake City. 
After the usual exercises, President 
Booth expressed herself pleased with the 
attendance, felt the Spirit of the Lord would 
be with us.
Mantua reported by Christena Jenson, 
next, Bear River City; President Love-
land, of Deweyville, said “on account of 
quarantine the work at that place could 
not progress as well this winter, but were 
able now to continue their work. Sister
Thorn, of Perry, spoke of that society and
mother’s work. President Mary S. Tol-
man, Honeyville; Mary Fridal, Elwood; 
Julia Bingham, Garland, spoke of work in 
the respective wards. President Annie S.

[Column 2]
Johnson, First ward, Brigham City, re-
ported that as doing well. President Har-
per, of North ward, reported that ward. 
President Booth introduced Sister Lam-
bert, who said: “I am a stranger to most 
of you, but we are all working in the 
same cause; spoke of arranging work so 
as to be able to attend meetings. We are 
all interested in mother’s work; said Sister 
B. W. Smith does not want us to refer to
mother’s work as a class; spoke on singing 
as it is an important feature; related some 
of her experiences, of the Prophet Joseph 
Smith; spoke of teaching the children the 
principles of the Gospel by living them our-
selves; said that Sister Smith sent her love 
to the sisters. 
Afternoon session opened by singing and
prayer, etc. President Bowen, of Beaver; 
Mary E. Ward, Willard; President Emma 
Lee, Third ward Brigham City, reported 
respective wards as doing well. A quartette
was rendered by members of the choir.
President Sarah Wilde, of the Fourth ward 
Brigham City; Martha Pierce, Thatcher;
President Boden, Second ward Brigham 
City, all gave favorable reports, mention-
ing the death of Sister Hannah Jenson, 
who was a teacher for several years. 
The Scandinavian Society was reported 
by President Emma Pratt, and she said 
that they had sent the money to emigrate 
an older Sister and young girl from the old 
country.
President Booth thought she could report 
Park Valley, said they were getting along 
as usual; their secretary had died last win-
ter—one who had done faithful work. Pres-
ident Kelly sent word that he was detained 
and could not attend the conference. Two 
letters were read, one from Stone, Idaho, 
and one from Snowville.  A solo was ren-
dered by Sister Mayhew. 
Sister Lambert was pleased with the re-
ports, urged the sisters to improve and keep
on in the great work. Sister Emilia Mad-
son spoke on the mission of mothers. 
President Booth felt to thank Sister 
Lambert for the good instructions, and ex-
pressed her pleasure and satisfaction at the 
conference; after singing, the benediction 
was pronounced by Sister Emmeline Wat-
kins, and conference adjourned for six 
months. 
		LETTIE FORSGREN, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM. 
	Sister Mary M. Findlay Mathews was the daugh-
ter of Allen M. and Jeanetta Ireland Findlay. 
She was born in Salt Lake City April 4, 1862. She 
came to Panacca, Nev., with her parents in the 
year 1872. On February 20, 1884, she was married 
to Philip Mathews. In the year 1892 she was 
chosen as secretary of the Panacca Ward Relief 
Society, which position she filled with equity and
justice till her death, which occurred July 21, 
1904. She leaves a devoted husband, four chil-
dren, a brother and sister, besides a host of other 
relatives and friends to mourn her loss. 

	RESOLUTIONS. 
	Expressions of love and respect to the memory 
of Sister Mary M. Findlay Mathews, who departed 
this life July 21, 1904. 
	Whereas, our much esteemed sister and co-
laborer has by the hand of Divine Providence, 
been removed from our midst, and has, we feel, 
confidently assured, gone to a better world; 
therefore be it 
	Resolved, That we strive to emulate her un- 
swerving faith, her fidelity to purity and truth, her 
devotion to home and religious duties, and her 
humility, respect and obedience to proper au-
thority. 
	Resolved, that we tender our heartfelt sympathy 
to the family of the deceased, and that they, and


we the sisters of the Relief Society, with which,
she was connected so long, may follow her ex-
amble by diligence and faithfulness.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family, that a copy be sent to the
Woman’s Exponent for publication and a copy
be placed on the ward record of the Society.
				LIZZIE LEE BUTLER,
								Secretary.


MOTHER’S WORK.
		MARICOPA STAKE.
Lecture I.— Woman, Know Thyself:
	“Oh, Woman! Woman! know thyself,
		And know thy mission too:
	Thou comest from thy Maker’s hand
		A mighty work to do.”
							E. R. Snow.
	a—Necessity of studying well your own
character before undertaking responsibility
of wife and mother. Ref. Imp. Era, vol.
5, No. 3, p. 184. Young Woman’s Journal
Vol. 12, No. 5, p. 223; also Vol. 12, No. 2
p. 63.
	b—Hygiene of the body. Why its im-
portance.
	c—Disposition, mental and moral tend-
encies.
	d—Will power; how cultivated, Journal
Dis.. Vol. 1, p. 355.
Lecture II.—Making a Home:
	a—Relationship of wife and husband.
Ref. seventieth annual conf. pamphlet, p.
39. Dis. A. O. Woodruff. Young Wom-
an’s Journal, Vol. 12, No. 7, p, 309.
	b—Duties one to the other. Contributor,
Vol. 15, No. 8, p. 516.
	c—What a young wife can do to encour-
age her husband. Juv. Inst. Vol. 38, No.
12, p. 371. Imp. Era, Vol. 6, No. 6, p.
456; Vol. 6, No. 7, p. 511.
	d—Family prayer, its influence in devel-
oping proper moral and spiritual tendencies
in the home. Wife should take part. Doc.
& Cov., Sec. 68, p. 251. Discourse, 73rd
annual cenference, J. H. Smith, p. 70.
	“Study well each thought and action,
	That your lives may be sublime.”
Lecture III.—The Parents: “Go forth and
replenish the earth.’’
	a—Beginning and duration of parental
responsibilities. School and Fireside, Mae-
ser, pp. 50-53. Imp. Era, Vol. 6, No. 6,
p. 421. Jour. Dis. Vol. 1, p. 66.
	b—Mother’s thoughts and actions.
Young Woman’s Journal, Vol. 12 No. 7,
p. 314; Vol. 15, No. 3, p. 113.
	c—Form habits that you would like your
child to follow.
	d—Environments.
	e—Hope, anticipation and preparation.
Ref. Gen. 30: 25-43.
Lecture IV.—The Infant:
	a—Care of the little one,
	b—Bath, food, dress, sleep.
	c—Creeping, teething.
Lecture V.— Childhood:
	a— Building a healthy body.
	b—Physically: outdoor exercise, work
and play, food and sunshine. School and
Fireside, chapter 4.
	c—Morally: example and its effect. Moth-
er the child’s first companion. The child’s
rights. Attention to proper questions. Juv.
Inst. Vol. 37, No. 19, p. 393. Mill. Star,
Vol. 15, No. 1, first article. Juv. Inst.,


[Column 1]
Vol. 38, No. 13, p. 400. Imp. Era, Vol. 6,
No. 7, p. 510.
	d—Spiritually: reverence for parents and
the Deity. Juv. Inst., Vol. 38. No. 9, p.
280. Exodus 20: 1-18. Imp. Era, Vol. 7,
No. 2, p. 135.
	e—Prayer: respect for the Sabbath day.
Doc. and Cov., Sec. 59. Juv. Inst., Vol.
28, No. 20, p. 652. Seventy-third annual
conf. p. 70. dis. J. H. Smith.
Lecture VI.— Youth and Maiden:
	Mothers pray for wisdom. Fireside edu-
cation. School and Fireside, M., p. 63.
	a—Cultivation of a noble character, mor-
al habits, companions, books, animals, pic-
tures, true friends. Ref. Doc. and Cov.,
Sec. 89. Imp Era, Vol 6, No. 8, p. 581.
Juv. Inst. Vol. 37, No. 18, p. 548.
	b—Manners. Imp. Era' Vol. 6, No. 6,
p. 456; Vol. 6, No. 7, p. 511. Juv. Inst,
Vol. 21, No. 3, p. 40. Y. W. J., Vol. 15,
No. 3, p. 100.
Mothers make confidents of your children:
	a—Tell the secrets of life, the change,
the care of the body.
	b—Domestic education,
	c—Idleness, its effect. School and Fire-
side, p. 67. Proverbs, chapter 10. Doc.
and Cov. p. 264.
	d—Manual labor, its effect. Imp. Era,
Vol. 6, No. 8, p. 603; Vol 6, No. 3, p. 229
Juv. Inst., Vol 21, No. 2, p. 24.
	“Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shalt
not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the
laborer,”
	Mabel M. Hakes, Melissa Hunsaker,
Parmelia Horne, Annie E. Fuller, Nancy J.
Bailey, Celia A. Smith—Committee.
		PANGUITCH STAKE.
			LESSON VII.
			Childhood,
	“Happiness is the only food on which the child
can be fed with profit.”
	(a) Physical Training. 1. Food—Kinds
—Why? 2. Clothing—Uniformity.—Why?
3. Exercise—Regularity in Work—Play.
4. Sleep—Amount—Regularity—Why? 5.
Bathing.
	(b) Mental Training. 1. Obedience—To
God, to authority of Church and State. 2.
Honesty—In thought and action. How
taught. 3. Cleanliness of thought, of ac-
tion in language. 4. Choice of Companions
—Who shall choose—parents or children.
Why?
	(c) Spiritual Training: 1. Reverence—
persons, places, things. 2. Responsibity of
parents, see Doc. and Cov. Sec. 68.
			LESSON VIII.
			Boyhood.
	(a) Character Building: 1. Teach him
his responsibility in forming his own char-
acter and his preparation for manhood and
that the body is the temple of the soul. 2.
Good Habits—Cleanliness of his person and
dress—Work—Amusements—Choice of oc-
cupation — Language. 3. Bad Habits—
How avoided?—Use of Intoxicants—Stimu-
lants—Idleness—Sec. 68—Doc. and Cov.—
Rivalry—Language.
	(b) Domestic Relations: 1. His Rights,
To expect parents confidence. To share
the best—To be equal with his sisters—To

[Column 2]
have a place for and a right to care for his
personal property—To expect a reasonable
amount of spending money—2. His Privi-
leges—To entertain his companions occas-
ionally —3. To express his ideas and con-
victions—To pursue his studies without in-
terruption.
			LESSON IX.
			Girlhood.
	“O, thou child of many prayers
	Life hath quicksands, life hath snares,
	Age and care come unawares.”
	(a) Character Building: [-]. Teach the
girl her divine origin. 2. Her capabilities
and her mission.
			LESSON X.
			Etiquette.
	As charity covers a multitude of sins before
God, so does politeness before men.”
	(a) Home: 1. Always remember the
small sweet courtesies—2. Don’t reserve
your kindest words and sweetest smiles for
strangers—3. Table etiquette—4, Morning
and evening greetings—5. Conversational
manners.
	(b) Church: 1. Be orderly in entering
—2. Avoid conversation during services—
3. Remain until after dismissal—4, Obey
all the rules—5. Avoid loud laughter or
conversation in building or on grounds.
	(c) Street: 1. Greetings—2. How to pass
—3. Introductions—4. Conversations—5.
Dress—6- Lady and her escort.
	(d) The Ball Room; Y. W. Journal 1902.
			LESSON II.
			Chastity.
	So dear to heaven is saintly chastity, that when
a soul is found sincerely so, a thousand liveried
angels lackey her.
	(a) Chastity: (1) What is it? (b) Neces-
sity of example—of parents. 1. Selection
of associates. (c) What to teach our boys
and girls: 1. That thought and action in-
fluence the body—2. Vulgar conversation
one of the chief causes of vices that ruin
body and soul. 3. Effect of unchastity on
the physical, mental and moral being. (4)
Unchastity contrary to laws of God and of
man.
			LESSON XII.
			Marriage.
	And again I say unto you that whoso forbid.
deth to marry is not ordained of God unto man-
Doc. and Cov. Sec. 49.
	(a) Preparation for marriage: 1. Ability
to make and care for a home. (2.) True
love—3. Courtship—how conducted—Par-
ents, responsibility. (4) Assurance through
prayer that the union would be approved
by God. (5) Worthy to be married prop-
erly. (b) Kinds: 1. For time. 2. For
Eternity—Compare.
	(c) Object of Marriage: 1. Compliance
with divine commandments. 2. Propaga-
tion of the human family. 3. Companion-
ship. 
					JANE LEFEVRE,
					MAMIE F. DODDS,
					KATE C. CLARK.
							Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


NATIONAL COUNCIL WOMEN—UNITED
			STATES.
My dear co-workers:
	In pursuance of the plan inaugurated in
my letter of April 22nd, I write to indicate
the way in which it seems to me best to
arrange the postponed annual demonstra-
tion on behalf of Peace and Arbitration,
which in the usual order would have been
set for May 16th, but on account of the
Thirteenth International Congress of Peace,
which is to convene in Boston the first week
in October, was deferred. The plans for
the congress are now so fully made that we
may go forward with our own.
	The congress in Boston will open on
Monday, October 3d, but will be preceded by
a great demonstration on Sunday, October
2nd. The pastors of the leading Boston
churches of all denominations have agreed
to devote the morning service of that day
to the Peace cause. In the afternoon there
will be a large special meeting at Tremout
Temple. It seems, therefore, eminently
proper that the Peace and Arbitration Com-
mittee of the National Council of Women
of the United States shall ask the clergy
throughout the country to devote the morn-
ing service of Sunday, October 2nd, to
some phase of the subject of peace and ar-
bitration.
	The meeting in Boston will occupy the
entire week. I feel that we can get the
benefit of the enthusiasm which this Thir-
teenth International Congress may excite,
as reports of it shall be disseminated by the
press throughout the country; and I there-
fore recommend that our committee shall.
through its various subordinate branches,
endeavor to have the demonstration ar-
ranged for Saturday, October 8th. I feel
that our general plan should coincide with
that of previous demonstrations.
	First. Let a member of each local com-
mittee seek to address the “clergymen’s
meeting,” and thus get a personal op-
portunity to ask ministerial associations
to take action in regard to this use of Sun-
day, October 2nd; or let each local commit-
tee send out to all of the clergymen of your
community a circular letter making the
same request. The fact that the great
meetings are going forward at Boston on
that date will inevitably secure the favor of
clergymen who otherwise might be unin-
terested, and will add zest to local meet-
ings.
	Second. Let each local committee organ-
ize a press committee, and make it the duty
of the committee on press to see that ade-
quate notices are given of the approaching
Peace Congress in Boston and of the ap-
proaching peace demonstration; of Mr. Ed-
win D. Meade, the chairman of the com-
mittee on organization of the congress, and
of Mr. Benjamin F. Trueblood, the secre-
tary, both of whom may be addressed, 20
Beacon Street, Boston, Mass. Lists of
foreign speakers, preliminary announce-
ments, programs, etc., may be obtained,
which if you can have reproduced either in
whole or in part in your local papers will
help turn the attention of the community
to the subject.
	Third. I take the liberty of giving below
pertinent subjects for discussion at the dem-
onstration:
	1. The pecuniary cost of war.
	2. The moral results of war.
	3. The effect of war upon the national
ideal of American citizenship.


[Column 1]
	4. The story of the organization of the
court of arbitration.
	5. A statement of cases that have already
been presented before it.
	6. Consideration of differences existing
among peoples at the present time which
properly should be referred to the court of
arbitration.
	7. The incompatibility of the Christian
life with war, its practices, its ideals.
	Fourth. Certainly, every member of our
committee should be a subscriber to "The
Advocate of Peace," which is published by
the American Peace Society at 31 Beacon
Street, Boston, and can be obtained for
$1.00 a year. Every issue of the Advocate
contains a list of peace literature with
prices. Even so small a sum as $2.00,
wisely used, would fill the hands of any
local committee with means of information
which again wisely used through the local
press, would do much to incline public
feeling in right directions, and to educate
the public to the atrocity of war and the
practicability of the methods of arbitration.
	Fifth. It is very desirable that great
pains should be taken not to allow the se-
lection of speakers to be influenced by lo-
cal conditions, and if possible to have
speakers from both of the leading political
parties; indeed, in the arrangement of the
entire program, it is wise to have as many
different shades of political opinion and as
many different religious sects represented as
possible. This will give to the program
that non-partizan air which is indispensable
to success.
	Sixth. May I suggest that the members
of this committee take the greatest possible
pains to secure adequate and numerous
reports of the local meetings in the local
press. Nay, I also ask every member of
my committee and every chairman of a
subordinate local committee who had the
management of a peace meeting in charge
kindly to send to my address the newspaper
reports of the meeting.
	Seventh. May I also remind all persons
having charge of meetings, that we desire
the resolution which has been passed at our
annual demonstrations since 1900 again to
be passed at the coming demonstration? It
goes without saying, that wherever a local
council exist, the local council is the prop-
er medium through which meetings in con-
nection with this universal demonstration
should be arranged. Where no local coun-
cil exists, if the person kindly taking the
meeting in charge would, as far as possible,
follow the council method by making up a
committee of organization, which should be
representative of all the leading organiza-
tions of the place, it seems as if both the
question in hand "Peace and arbitration"
and the "Council ideal" would be pro-
moted.
	Finally. May I ask everyone into whose
hands this letter comes kindly:
	First. To acknowledge its receipt?
	Second. To report to me from time to
time her own progress in the work?
	Third. Not later than Monday, October
10, to send to my address, in the most con-
densed form, answers to the following ques-
tions:

[Column 2]
	(a) To what degree did the elergymen
respond to the request concerning the serv-
ices of October 2nd?
	(b) How many meetings were you able
to organize?
	(c) How many addresses were there at
each meeting?
	(d) How many persons in actual attend-
ance?
	(e) How many were represented by elect-
ed delegates?
	(f) Did your meeting pass the resolu-
tions?
	(g) Additional comment.
	I feel confident that if you will go to
work immediately upon the receipt of this
letter and secure as many of your friends as
possible to aid you in executing its sugges-
tions, you will be able to witness great suc-
cess on October 8th, and have the pleasure
of reporting such success to me on October
10th.
	The presence of so many foreigners in
this country, all of whom are deeply inter-
ested in the demonstration, should add
greatly to the zest of our workers.
	There is one condition under which I
think it excusable to change the date and
character of the Peace meeting that you
shall organize. If, after having obtained
from Mr. Meade the list of foreign delegates
who will be assembled at Boston, you find
there are any whose presence would awak-
en great popular interest in your commun-
ity, and if by correspondence with them
you find that you can obtain their serv-
ice by holding a Peace meeting at a later
date, it might be well for you to do so.
Yet even then, my judgment is, that so lim-
ited is the fame of our Peace workers com-
pared with that of the workers in other 
lines of public beneficence, that you would
be likely to have a better Peace meeting for
one of the foreign speakers to address, if
that special and particular meeting were
preceded by the proposed annual demon-
stration.
	In the Woman's Journal of Angust 6th,
you can, if you desire, find my account of
the Peace Meeting of the International
Council at Berlin—by all means the most
remarkable meeting held during that fort-
night. You know that that paper can be 
obtained by application to the office of the
Woman's Journal, No. 5 Park Street, Bos-
ton, Mass. In the Evening Boston Tran-
script of August 6th is an article relating to
the work accomplished for peace during the
late quinquennial. You might be interest-

[Column 3]
ed in the information contained in these
two articles, and might be helped in your
plan of work by reading them.
			MAY WRIGHT SEWALL,


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
OBSTETRICS

	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts
Will commence her next class in Obstet-
rics on Monday, October 10, 1904. This
class will also have the advantage of at-
tending the RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE
CLASS taught by Dr. Roberts. For fur-
ther information, communicate with Dr.
Roberts, 79 C Street. Telephone 2002.

					R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
				67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS 1904-5.
	The Relief Society Nurse Class will com-
mence September 19, 1904, continuing
eight months. Four lessons a week will
be given by Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, the
class instructor, and lectures by other phy-
sicians and surgeons of Salt Lake City.
There will also be a course of lectures on
cooking and other important subjects con-
nected with the nurse profession by mem-
bers of the General Board of the Relief So-
ciety or by those whom they may appoint.
	Students wishing to taka the nurse course
and not previously provided with places to
stay during the term will have an oppor-
tunity of getting good homes where they
can at least earn enough to pay for their
board and room. It would be advisable for
those intending coming from a distance, to
be here a few days before the class com-
merces in order to have time to get settled
in such places, during which few days they
will be provided for. Call on Mrs. P. Y.
Beatie, secretary, 55 N. West Temple.
				EMMA A EMPEY,
	Supt. Relief Society Nurse Classes

	Obstetrical class commences Monday,
October 10, 1904. Tuition, $40.00; books,
$4.00 to $7.00, Ten dollars less will be
charged to those who attend Relief Society
Nurse Class.
	Ladies taking both classes, it might be
advisable if several could club together,
rent rooms and board themselves.
	MARGARET C. ROBERTS, Instructor.

	DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
Will open a class in Nursing and Ob-
stetrics on Monday, Oct. 10, 1904, at
her home, 713 Second Street, Salt Lake
City. Those desiring to attend will
please communicate personally or by
letter. This class recommended by the
General Board of the Relief Society.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust 
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 Main Street.

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
				AND NURSING.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt will commence her
class in Midwifery and Nursing October 10, 1904.
	One student free. Write for particulars.
	This class recommended by the General
Board of the Relief Society.


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 33						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER, 1904					No. .4


CONTENTS.
An Interesting Letter........... Abbie H. Cowley	25
D R. May Meeting.............................. E.B.W.	26
Miss Mabelle Biggart Interviewed..................	a7
Kensington Teas............................... A Friend	27
R. S. Reports—Panguitch Stake....... M. H. H.	27
	Salt Lake Stake............. Martha P. Smith	30
	Liberty Stake.................. Lizzie Robbins	30
Visit in St. George Stake.................................	29
Bishop’s Birthday Party...................... E.C.W.	29
Death of a Pioneer.................... L. C. Gardner	30
Close of the Berlin Meeting............................	31
EDITORIAL—The New Civilization.............	28
	A Pioneer Anniversary............................	28
	September Meeting, D. R. ......................	28
Editorial Notes ................................................	20
POETRY—“Home, Sweet Home”...... E. R S.	25
	Out of the Crucial............ Mable Biggart	27


“HOME, SWEET HOME.”
Once there was written a song, now immortal,
	By one who was destined life’s pathways to
		roam.
By Paine, then denied the sanctified portal,
	The restfulness found with loved ones at home.
And he must surely have tasted its glories,
	Or how could he picture the pleasure that’s
		there?
Exceeding e’en all the beautiful stories
	Of poet and sage on the sweetness of home.
Home! sweet, sweet home! blest home, dear and
		sacred,
	How the innermost depths of our being is
		thrilled!
Even vanquishing pain, and sorrow, and hatred,
	With holiest thought all natures are filled,
At home, where in love and union are blended
	The hearts of its inmates in unchanging love,
That fireside with virtue and honor defended
	By God’s holy presence and smiles from above.
Must I, like our bard, forever, I wonder,
	Be destined the pangs of an exile to know?
From country to country forever to wander
	Alone ’mid life’s blasts my tears ever flow.
Perhaps there will ne’er be abiding place for me
	In this mortal sphere of trial and strife;
Thank God for the hope of eternal glory
	To those who endure in faith through this life.
Thank God for the sweet, the blessed assurance
	Of a heavenly peace which to each one will
		come
As a guerdon to all for patient endurance—
	That perfect, that bright, immortalized home.
					ELLIS R. SHIPP, M. D.


AN INTERESTING LETTER.
	NORTHAMPTON, MASS.,
					July 12, 1904,
Dear Sister Wells:
	Being in your native state, my thoughts
turn to you and to my friends who left this
beautiful place to assist in building up the
barren country to which the Lord directed
His people
	Acording to your wish, I will give you
a brief account of our travels. My daugh-
ter and myself left our home June 1 to
visit Canada, being invited by my nephew,

[Column 2]
John W. Wolf, to accompany himself and
wife to their home in Cardston on their re-
turn from the June conference.
	After a very pleasant trip of two days we
arrived in Sterling June 14, where we
were met at the depot by Brother Brandley.
After partaking of his kind hospitality over
night, we proceeded on to Cardston, where
we were welcomed by relatives and friends.
We improved the time for two weeks vis-
ting and looking at the country, which,
at this time of the year, presents a very
beautiful appearance, the weather being as
pleasant as we could desire. The people
were busily engaged preparing for “Do-
minion Day,” which is the 1st of July.
	As we had our trip arranged for the
Eastern States, we did not participate in
the celebration. Starting on our tour June
27th, we took the Great Northern train
and sped along through northern Montana,
Dakota and Minnesota without changing
cars or stopping off until we reached St.
Paul, viewing as we passed the large
ranches of Montana, on which were com-
paratively small houses, which were
changed for the immense grain fields with
beautiful large houses, those which appear-
ed to us as ideal farm homes. The coun-
try looked like one great, green field as far
as the eye could see, now and then passing
a village or city.
	At St. Paul we changed cars en route for
Chicago. The country now presents a dif-
ferent appearance as we come to the beautiful
dells and lakes of the Wisconsin, which de-
lighted the eye for hours.
	We arrived at Chicago Thursday even-
ing, June 30th, where we were met by
Brother Ellsworth, who is laboring in the
missionary field. Friday and Saturday we
were engaged taking in some of the sights
of Chicago, visiting the University grounds,
where we met friends from home; also
visited some of the large buildings, parks,
etc , and enjoyed a delightful ride on Lake
Michigan. Sunday we attended meetings,
where we were kindly greeted by Elders
and Saints, we also attended a street meet-
ing, where we listened to Elders and sisters
proclaim the plan of life and salvation to
the people as they passed by. Now and
then one would stop and listen for a while,
then go on, and others would stop and lis-
ten until the meeting closed; occasionally
there would be a disturbance by some one
calling out in disrespectful terms, but the
Elders went on unheeding, so that those
who did desire might hear the truth.
	Being invited by President Asahel
Woodruff, we remained in Chicago to
spend the 4th of July, which was Monday.
We accompanied himself and family to
Washington Park, where Elders, Saints
and students arranged to celebrate. The
day was an ideal one. The beginning of
the programme seemed to be handshaking
and introducing one to another, as many
of the party were from different parts of
Zion, who were delghted to meet a friend
so far from home, while others were just
as pleased to meet a brother or a sister in
the Gospel, which is especially appreciated
in the world, where there are few in num-
ber.

[Column 3]
	About 1 o’clock cloths were spread upon
the green grass, and all partook of a boun-
teous lunch prepared by the sisters, after
which a meeting was called by Brother
Ellsworth, Marshal of the day, which con-
sisted of speeches, recitations and songs
suitable to the occasion, followed by sports
of different kinds, racing, games, boat rid-
ing, etc. After enjoying a very pleasant
day we bade the party good-by and took
the train en route for Massachusetts and
Maine, stopping, however, to view the
beautiful scenery of Niagara. Continuing
our travels we arrived at Boston, where we
remained but one day. We visited Bunker
Hill monument, Harvard University
grounds, and called on the Elders who
were laboring there, as well as all other
Elders we visited, they were feeling well
and enjoying the spirit of their calling.
Meeting with the Elders was among the
most enjoyable events of our trip, as we
felt we had met a friend and a brother.
	The evening of the 7th we took the
steamship for Portland, Maine, President
Martin, who had charge of this part of the
mission, accompanying us.
	We landed at Portland about 8 o’clock
in the morning, where we were kindly
received by (my husband’s) relatives. We
called on a sister of Grandma Foss, as she
was formerly known, who was also a sister
of Aunt Phoebe Woodruff, our late Presi-
dent Woodruff’s departed wife, Mrs. Shuah
Moulton, who has attained the age of nine-
ty-three years. She was in good health
and spirits for one of her age; was pleased
to hear of her sisters’ families who left
their homes here so many years ago. We
were indeed pleased to see her; she re-
membered all of her departed sisters; in-
quired about their famiies, calling them by
name. She has a family of useful children
around her—a son who is a leading lawyer
in Portland, and two daughters, one being
a school teacher. She told us how she had
striven to educate them and keep them
around her, as she was left a widow when
they were young. She seemed interested
in the current topics of the day, on which
she conversed. Also the signs of the times
as referred to in the scripture. which
seemed to her were pointing to the last
days.
	Our time being limited we did not stay
long, as we had an appointment to meet
Miss Foss, my husband’s cousin, who was
going to show us around Scarborough and
Soco, from which places my husband’s
mother and grandmother came We started
on our ride about 11 o’clock and continued
until 6 o’clock. The scenery of the coun-
try was a change for us. being hills and
hollows, with large tracts of woods, with
here and there a farm house and a patch of
green grass around it, which was the farm,
with generally an orchard. The grass,
however, was tall and thick, vegetation
being very luxuriant everywhere. Among
the woods are beautiful ferns and flowers.
	We visited the home of Gradma Foss a[-]d
Aunt Phoebe Woodruff, also the birthplace
and childhood home of my husband’s
mother. The houses are in good condition,
one of them being over a hundred years


[Column 1]
old, and looks as fresh as though it had
just been completed. A striking feature
of these homes is their freshness, being
painted often to preserve them, as they are
made of wood. Most of them are painted
white, and look very pretty among the
green trees. We also visited the family
cemetery. After visiting the beautiful
places here we were driven to “Prout’s
Neck,” a beautiful resort within a stone's
throw of the ocean, owned by Ira Foss and
his two sisters, my husband's cousins. 
There were about one hundred guests at
the resort, which is commodious enough to 
accommodate two hundred, the grounds
with the woods near by are very beautiful.
For the first time in my life I gathered 
shells on the sea shore and heard the waves
dash against the rocks. In the evening
the family gathered in their parlors, where
the time was pleasantly spent in relating
incidents of progenitors who lived about
here so many years ago. Next morning
we bade goodby to friends, and to one of
the most beautiful places it has been my
pleasure to visit, and retnrned to Boston. 
	We visited while in Portland the birth-
place of Henry W. Longfellow, and an-
other home he once occupied. The next
day being Sunday we remained in Boston
to attend the Latter-day Saints' meeting,
after which we went on to Northampton,
where we arrived a short time before dark.
The names of the places now began to be-
come familiar to me, as I had heard my
mother speak of them so often, but not so
with the country for I had not imagined
anything so beautiful. We walked leisure-
ly along enjoying the appearance of the
streets and houses as we passed. The side-
walks and streets were almost covered
with grass which continued on to the doors,
and with so many large trees the places
looked like a continuous garden. It surely
is the prettiest, cleanest little city I have
ever visited. The principal manufacturing
is that of silk thread. We walked around
the grounds of the Smith College for girls
where we were told that five thousand
girls attended school.
	We continued our walk until dark when
we took rooms for the night. After getting
located, we went out again to get the air,
the evening being very warm. Thinking
we were near my cousin's home we inquired
where Charles Gloyd lived, the gentleman
answered, "This is the place, come in."
They were expecting us having already
met one train. We went in, but did not
intend to stay to stay this time as it was
getting late, but said we would call in the
morning. He said he felt he had something
to say about that and requested that we re-
main at his home while in the city and as
long as we could, and this being the feel-
ing of his wife we were pleased to remain,
as we wished to spend all the time we
could with our people, which was the ob-
ject of our visit. We did not retire until
late, we were so interested in talking of
loved ones. My cousin remembered my
mother well, especially the morning she aad
her cousin left their home to take the long
journey with ox teams to the Rocky moun-
tains. He thought they must have had
great courage to undertake such a journey.
I told him they exhibited this same cour-
ageous spirit throughout their lives, that
nothing would have induced them to give
up their pioneer life and leave the great
work which would gain for them an exalta-
tion in the world to come. They had heard
but little of the Gospel for which my moth-

[Column 2]

er had left her home, and made some in-
quiries, especially becoming interested in
the Redemption for the Dead. We re-
mained at their home until the following
afternoon when we started for Cumming-
ton, the birthplace and early home of my
mother, my cousin accompanying us. We
took the street car to Williamsburg, a dis-
tance of ten miles, here we procured a team
as we had about fifteen more miles to travel,
passing over a beautiful country, the road
winding around hills which were covered
with dense forests of maple, oak, elm, cher-
ry and different kinds of nuts. Along the
roadside which followed the Westfield
river were many beautiful ferns and shrub-
bery of different kinds, the sumach especi-
ally being noticable with its beautiful red
berries. Occasionally we would see beauti-
ful flowers, the laurel, tiger lily, roses,
daisies, etc., as well as a variety of herbs.
I thought it no wonder our grandparents so
well understood the use of them as medi-
cines.
	On entering Cummington we saw the
Bryant Library, which had been presented
to the town by William Cullen Bryant. In
the evening we met my cousin's son and
daughter and son’s wife who were spending
a few days in Cummington, which is a cool,
delightful place in summer. Early in the
morning we started out to look around at
the places of interest. Visited a paper [-]ill,
called on some friends who were neighbors
to my mother, whose names were as fami-
liar to me as the names of my own personal
friends, and they seemed very pleased to
see us, asking that we remain with them
longer. After being entertained for several
hours by two of my cousin's nieces we went
driving around the William Cullen Bryant
[-]ummer home. It was here, we were told,
he wrote "Thanatopsis." The home is
now occupied by his daughter. It is situ-
ated on a hill with other hills surrounding
it, covered with woods, a large orchard is
near by and a grassy plot surrounds the
house. A little further on we came to the
place where my mother was born lived
for many years. This is also on a hill
and other hills surrounding it are covered
with maple trees that my grandfather
owned, behind it rises Deer Hill. A
group of houses are at the foot of the hill,
where a stream of water runs on where my
grandfather's woolen mills once stood. The
home has been abandoned for years, as one
could tell by its appearance. It has recent-
ly been purchased by parties who are going
to repair it. The lady invited us in to look
at the house, being pleased that we were
so much interested in it, and thought she
would now like the home better herself.
Having brought our lunch, we ate it under
a large maple tree in the front yard and
for desert we gathered wild raspberries
near by. We drank from the spring which
furnished water for our kindred people,
and plucked roses to press and preserve
that grew near the door, and which were
planted by them, while a short time
before we had gathered flowers from their 
graves. We walked through the tall grass
to look at the old mill wheel, the only re-
mains of Grandfather Gloyd's woolen mills 
in which my mother worked to secure
means which enabled her to gather with
the people who had the Gospel that was so
dear to her. After looking around we came 
to the conclusion that there had once been
a comfortable and prosperous home, and
were told that times were lively enough

[Column 3]

when our grandfather was there carrying
on his business.
	I now realize more keenly than ever be-
fore the sacrifice our parents made in leav-
ing their homes for the Gospel sake. With
a prayer in my heart to my Heavenly
Father that my mother had been inspired
of Him to receive the Gospel and gather
with His people whereby she could be the
means of redeeming her father's household,
and also with feelings of gratitude in my
heart for the privilege of realizing this
much desired visit, we rode away and the
day closed on one of the most interesting
and enjoyable times of my life. 
				ABBIE H. COWLEY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


D. R. MAY MEETING
	The Utah State Society Daughters of the
Revolution met on Monday, May 16, 1904,
at the home of the secretary Mrs. Lucy
Woodruff Smith,, the Regent, Mrs. Isabel
M. W. Sears presiding. The parlors were
handsomely decorated with flags of various
nations, which made the occasion very im-
pressive, the stars and stripes were most
conspicuously placed, and there were many
countries effectively represented by these
beautiful emblems.
	After prayer by the Chaplain, and the
usual business routine, the Regent, Mrs.
Sears, stated that the report had been for-
warded to the General Society, and she had
received a letter from Mrs. Alice Merrill
Horne, the Delegate from the Utah D. R. to
the Annual Convention of the General So-
ciety in New York City, stating that she
had been present at the meetings and had
read the report which was favorably re-
ceived and that she received considerable ap-
plause, also that in behalf of the Utah D.
R. she had given ten dollars towards the
purse of money presented to the President
General, Miss Adaline W. Sterling, by the
several states represented in the General
Society. The action of Mrs. Horne in giv-
ing the money met with unanimous ap-
proval of the members.
	A circular letter was then read from the
General Society stating that a plan was be-
ing formulated for the placing of some mark
or monument at Yorktown.
	The Regent stated she had informed the
chairman of said committee that Utah D.
R. would give its proportion to this particu-
lar purpose.
	It was moved and carried that the Regent
be sustained in the matter.
	The business being finished the program
was then given. An interesting sketch of the
life of Nathan Hale was given by the
Regent, Mrs. Sears, for Mrs. Julia P. M.
Farnsworth, who had beea unable to pre-
pare her topic on account of serious illness in
her family. Mrs. Farnsworth read with
much feeling a poem written for Nathan
Hale, and Miss Catherine Wells concluded
the subject with a very fine sketch of Mr.
Hale’s courtship and the woman he loved.
	Meeting then adjourned until the annual
meeting, June 10, 1904. There were pres-
ent beside the members, as guests, Mes-
dames Charlotte F. Richards, Lucy Smtth
Acomb, and Rebecca E. Nibley. Dainty
refreshments were served and social con-
versation indulged in, relating more particu-
larly to the different flags, etc., Mrs. Smith
had collected while abroad.
							E. B. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OUT OF THE CRUCIAL.
	BY MABELLE BIGGART.
I said:
	I will walk in the fields,
	Where the flowers are fresh
	And the skies are blue-
God said:
	"Nay, walk in the town,
	There hearts are burdened-
	And homes despoiled!"
I said:
	But the clouds are black- 
	The way is dark- 
	And my courage is faint!
God said:
	"But hearts are sick-
	In the noise and the din-
	There is work for thee-
	In the sorrow and sin!"


[Column 1]
MISS MABELLE BIGGART INTERVIEWED.

SOME OF THE LEADING WOMEN I HAVE
				MET.
	M'lle Monont who has been at the head of
Women's Congresses; is of one of the oldest
families of good French stock. She is the
supporter and at the head of the largest
Deaconesses' home in the world. She is
Christian and philanthropic. She presided
at the women's conference at Versailles a
year ago in May. This conference was
held on a pleasant estate loaned for the pur-
pose. There were over a thousand women
present by invitation, representing the
leading women of Paris, who are philan-
thropic without being essentially Christian.
All subjects pertaining to women and the
advancement of social life in Paris and
other portions of continental Europe were
brought forward in most enthusiastic papers.
There were delegates from many countries,
who, by the way, were on their way to the
W. C. T. U. World's International Confer-
ence, which was meeting at Geneva, Swit-
zerland. Of course, the papers and all
were given in the French tongue. It was
an all-day session, most inspiring, most en-
thusiastic. I was pleased with one of the
women editors of a leading Parisian journal.
She was particularly of the Latin type.
Her magnetism was very striking. A look,
a gesture, meant as much as a word. Her
subject matter was that of crying down ob-
scene pictures in the streets of Paris and
putting forth pure literature to the young
as well as the old of France. M'lle Monont
presided with dignity and grace and rare
tact, which she always shows.
I would like to tell you of Mrs. Eliza
Arbo, widow of the famous historical and
mythological painter of Christiania, Nor-
way. She has one of the finest private
salons outside of Paris. Her home was
designed by her late husband, and her
studio is a rare art gallery, filled with the
paintings of her late famous husband and
also some of her own. They both studied
and worked together in Paris. Mrs. Arbo
is living in retirement, in a measure, now
in the old capital city, Christiania, giving
her time to philanthropic interests, woman's
work, her art and the education of her two
delightful daughters, but all in a quiet gen-
teel way. She is a woman of rare gifts. A
linguist. Her nationality is English and
Norwegian, so that she has the characteris-
tics of each nation, and considerable that
has been acquired from the French, from
her long residence with them.

[Column 2]
	The picture Valkyrie, the god Thor rush-
ing through the air with his servants and
his attendants and going to Valhalla, where
they rest from their labors for a while, ac-
cording to the mythological story, is one of
the most beautiful creations that her hus-
band could have made. This picture hangs
in the National Gallery in Christiania, and
there is also a copy of it in her own home.
	I spent many pleasant days with her and
through her I was introduced to many
prominent people.
	I might say that the women of Christiania
and other portions of Norway, whom I had
the privilege of meeting, are proud to call
themselves "the Americans of the North."
That is because they are watching for wo-
man's progress and all that attains to her
development and uplifting conditions, and
so they look to us for these points in which
we have progressed.
	Movements are on foot for the social life
of woman, and, I might say, the true eman-
cipation of woman, in Norway.
	We can scarcely realize the thraldom of
her women, but they have taken the question
in hand and are presenting to their govern-
ment amendments whereby woman shall
have her freedom in more lines than I could
mention in this little interview: freedom
which is needed in lines of purity and
emancipation.
	In Sweden the Frederika-Bremer Club
has done an immense good. From it go
out nearly all the philanthropic lines of
Stockholm. I met some of their leaders
and I was entertained by several ladies in
the city who are interested in similar work
as that being started in Christiania. The
lines are drawn somewhat closer to women
in Sweden than in Norway, but they, on
the other hand, are also waking up and
have petitioned Parliament, through a long
line of signatures, to give them also the
needed freedom for woman.
	There are many noble workers in Stock-
holm among women, and I was particular-
ly interested in what I called the titled, or
noble-women. Suffice it to say, that the
titled people walk in Stockholm, and the
people who have come up from the lower
ranks and acquired money quickly, or who
have been to America and brought back
money, they ride in their carriages, but
many people of title and noble rank are
living simply, dressing simply, but pro-
gressing, and are even found in commercial
interests. We must not forget that it is an
old, a very old aristocratic kingdom and
that Norway has drawn away from all others
and has become a Republic. Therefore,
the society of the two is quite different.
	We may say, as to women of the world
that, as Lowell says, "God sends His teach-
ers into every age, to every land and every
tongue, nor gives the realm of truth unto the
selfish rule of one sole race." So God has
raised up one noble leader in every land, or
more. He has given Christiania, or you
might say Norway, its Camilla Collette;
Sweden its Frederika-Bremer; Germany
its Angel Queen, Louise; England its Flor-
ence Nightingale and Catherine Booth; and
America its Clara Barton and Frances Wil-
lard.


KENSINGTON TEAS.
	The question asked by every lady who is
desirous of entertaining her friends is;
What shall I have for a novelty?
	So serious is this query becoming and the


expense entailed, that only those whom
‘‘Dame Fortnne” has favored with ample
means can attempt it, without an amount
of squeezing and saving in other necessities
that is inconvenient and exceedingly an-
noying. 
	In Chicago many ladies have ceased this
mode of entertainment altogether, and yet
the gatherings are equally enjoyable.
	When the guests are assembled a series
of interesting announcements are com-
menced, in which those previously invited
to assist take part.
	Music, singing and recitations take their
share, and interspersed are pithy sayings or
actions that the fertile imaginations of the
entertainers can suggest.
	Not more than a few minutes is allowed
between each part of the program. Scan-
dal is strictly prohibited. Simple refresh-
ments are served round the rooms, and af-
ter about two hours the guests disperse,
all expressing themselves thoroughly de-
lighted and having passed a very pleasant
time.
	I merely offer this as a suggestion to our
Salt Lake ladies and think it worthy of a
trial.
			A FRIEND OF THE EDITOR.


R. S. REPORTS.
		PANGUITCH STAKE.
	Panguitch Stake Relief Society Confer-
ence convened at Panguitch Tabernacle,
June 13, 1904, commencing at 10 a. m.
President Elizabeth DeLong presiding,
after the usual exercises of singing, prayer,
etc., a letter was read explaining that the
sisters that were to visit us were unable to
do so on account of the death of Apostle
Owen Woodruff’s wife as his mother was
one of the sisters appointed to visit us, and
she had to go, and get his little motherless
children.
	Wards were reported as follows: Pan
guitch Ward by President Mary B. Hey-
wood; Henrieville Ward by Sister C. E.
Savage; Escelanta Ward by President Mary
E. Alvy; Kingston Ward by President
Hannah E. Sudweeks; Tropic Ward by
Sister Sarah J. Hilton; Sister Barbara
Myers bore her testimony.
	Sister Mary H. Levy gave a report of her
visit to Salt Lake City to the Young Ladies
Conference. Sister Hannah A. Crosby
spoke on the opportunities of our yonng
people today. Sister Lyda Row gave a
report of the mothers work in Escelanta
Ward.
	President Elizabeth DeLong announced
that a lunch would be served during the
noon hour at the Relief Society Hall, for
all visiting sisters, and officers and mem-
bers of the choir. Conference adjourned
until 2 p. m.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m. Sister
Mammie T. Dodds gave a lecture on
Motherhood, Sister Annie K. Lee sang.
Sister Allie Clark spoke. Laura Montague
sang, Sister Maria L. Sargent, Sister Alice
Jane Cameron, Sister Margaret H. Clark
and President Elizabeth LeLong each spoke
briefly.
	MARGARET H. HAYCOCK, Secetary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
			
				Woman's Exponent.

	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months’
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month. $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER, 1904


[Column 1]
	THE NEW CIVILIZATION.
	The world during the last century more
especially has enlarged its activities in a
wonderful degree and in many ways. An
impetus has been given to labor-saving to
a very great extent. Many of the things
formerly made by hand requiring time and
strength are now performed quicker and
even better by machinery. Although there
are still some people very slow to accept
new methods, and persist in doing as their
forefathers did in “the good old times” so
often quoted. One strange feature about
all these great improvements is that there
seems to be no more leisure, one sometimes
thinks not even as much for women, as our
foremothers had. As Sister Eliza R. Snow
would say, “This is the conundrum.”
	We women used to do many things that
are done for us now ever so much better,
and we cannot help wondering how it was
accomplished at all when there was so much
to be done. For instance, women made
their own soap, candles, molasses, and did
all, or nearly all, their own cooking, wash-
ing, ironing and sewing all by hand, and
many women carded the wool, spun
the rolls, and colored the yarn, knit all the
stockings, wove cloth for family wear, and
carpets for the floor, and we know of in-
stances where women took the wool from
the sheep. These pioneer women too,
actually worked over fire places with bake-
kettles and skillets, and used the old
fashioned cranes and pot hooks to hang the
kettles on for boiling purposes. Some of
our young people nowadays have never
seen a crane, and are surprised to hear of
such a thing. Have they studied Long-
fellow? Yes undoubtedly, and read “The
Hanging of the Crane,” which “long ago”
was celebrated with much ceremony when
a new house was built. There was a sort of
jollification at such times,
		“A fortunate, a happy day.”

	‘‘So said the guests in speech and song
	As in the chimney burning bright
	We hung the iron crane tonight,
	And merry was the feast and song.”
	Those simple, primitive village affairs
were very different to the "swell” entertain-
ments of our modern life. Apple-parings,
husking-bees, quilting parties and spelling
bees, were part and parcel of early life in
pioneer days. Neighbors were more soci-
able and if sometimes one spoke to a new
neighbor without an introduction, it was
not thought “ill-bred.”
	We women certainly rejoice in all the im-

[Column 2]
provements in the way of living, and house-
keeping especially, but the mystery still re-
mains when we complain of lack of time
to do the few things left to do by hand
How did our grandmothers and great-
grandmothers do all these things they tell
us of, and most of them raised large fami-
lies besides?
	They did not read as many books per-
haps, there were not so many newspapers
either, but they read the Bible even more
religiously, than is done by most women in
this age, and they kept the Sabbath day
more sacredly. It is often said they did not
have so many frills and furbelows, how-
ever that is not quite true, when one recalls
the fine stitching and hemming and the em-
broidering of fine linen, lace and muslin;
and the elaborate ruffled shirt fronts worn
by men, and the lace caps that all married
women only in the thirties wore in the last
century, why it gives one a pain to think
it over. We really have improved in dress-
ing, although some fashions are elaborate,
and as for corsets and tight-lacing, this
generation is far better than fifty years ago.
They used to write long letters in the
earlier times, now we send telegrams and
telephone messages, and if we must write
a letter it must be done on the typewriter
(to save time), and all the individuality is
taken out of it; it’s machine work only, and
lacks the touch of fine tone that letter-
writing once brought with it.
We really have too much formality
sometimes, do not come as much in touch
with each other in our daily lives as we
should do. If it were possible to show our-
selves interested in each other’s welfare,
and say a few kind things in passing along,
and not rush all the time with lightning
speed, perhaps we would be as well off in
the end, and make more friends and do a
little good to those, whose lives are heavy-
burdened. We used to visit, really visit,
socially and get acquainted in a nearer view
with our relatives and neighbors, now we
cannot get time even to make brief calls,
but there is so much business to be done,
and traveling to and fro, these are some of
the things we women do more of than our
predecessors. We are trying to make the
world better, more enlightened, so some of
us think, with new laws, new methods,
new plans of work, and we are reaching
out to a larger number of people, and talk
to them about pure food, and hygiene and
sanitation, and good roads and art in their
homes, and music of the fiuest quality, and
we grade our schools and colleges, and do
everything with technique, and run to ex-
tremes instead of maintaining an equal bal-
ance, until sometimes it seems that old-
fashioned ways would be preferable, be-
cause we overdo so many things, and have
not time to be considerate of other people
in a social way, or hospitable and kindly;
and we pass over the graceful, gracious,
homely, generous ways, and let our nearest
duties go undone, trying to reach such high
ambitions, that we almost l[]e our own self-
respect and condemn our own conduct.
	The world, however, must be taken as
this generation has made it, with its marvel-
ous growth in intellectuality in art and
science and mechanical processes and rapid
traveling by steam and electricity, and such
knowledge as comes of this great wave
of artificial forces, and do the best we can,
not to be puffed up with pride, because of
our great discoveries of things hitherto un-
known.
	The Latter-day Saints surely who under-

[Column 3]stand the truths of the Gospel, should be
careful to avoid making the mistakes that
seem prevalent in the world and keep that
spirit which leads into all truth, that they
may be kept from the evils of the world
that they may enjoy the advantages of
what is termed in common parlance the
new civilization of the age in which we
are living.


A PIONEER ANNIVERSARY.
	The Utah Society daughters of the
Pioneers met on Friday, September 23, at
the home of Miss Josephine Spencer in
honor of the day when her father, Daniel
Spencer with his family and a large com-
pany of Saints entered the valley of the
Great Salt Lake in 1847. This was the first
meeting after adjournment for the summer
months. Bishop Orson F. Whitney by in-
vitation gave a most entertaining talk upon
the work of the pioneers and particularly
the life and labors of Daniel, Orson and
Hyrum Spencer. He was listened to with
rapt attention. Other exercises were of
special interest notably the musical part of
the program.
	Messrs. Spencer, Pyper, Whitney and
Patrick celebrated Quartette singers, sang
“Come, Come ye Saints” at the opening of
the meeting and afterwards “Hard times
come again no more,” also one other hymn.
	These meetings are of a historic charac-
ter and serve to remind the young people
of today, what the pioneers of the desert
endured in establishing this fair common-
wealth of which their descendants are so
justly proud. The program for the year
has been prepared by a competent commit-
tee who have taken great pains to give va-
riety and make it interesting and the offic-
ers would be greatly encouraged if the
members and friends would attend the
meetings in larger numbers and more regu-
larly. Utah is still making history and it
is worth while to keep posted.


SEPTEMBER MEETING, D. R,
	The first meeting of the Daughters of
the Revolution (after adjournment during
the summer months) was held on Friday,
September 16, at the home of Mrs. Isabel
M. W. Sears. The parlors were very
beautifully decorated with nasturtiums and
sweet peas, and vases of the most exquisite
roses of a variety of kinds, all of Mrs. Sears
own raising.
	The Society colors, the stars and stripes,
and patriotic pictures with the Declaration
of Independence were also in evidence and
were inspiring to the company. Regent
Mrs. Phebe Young Beatie presiding. After
the usual exercises, some letters from the
General Society were read and commented
upon.
	The paper of the day was by Ella W.
Hyde, subject, Anthony Wayne and was
very well read and delightfully written.
	After the paper as neither Mrs. DeWolf
or Mrs. Wright who were given the story
and poem were present, Mrs. W. H. King
was urged to tell of her Eastern trip from
which she had just returned. Mrs King
spoke in glowing terms of Judge Parker,
the Democratic nominee for President of the
United States, and of his charming wife,
and the noted people with whom Judge
King and herself had the honor of dining
at the Parker home; told of the brilliant


conversation and her personal impressions
of these famous men and women whom she
had the opportunity of meeting at a social
function. Mrs. King also gave some other
incidents of her journey that were very in-
teresting.
	After the meeting adjourned, refresh-
ments were daintily served by the daught-
ers of the hostess including delicious fruit
from her own orchard. A very pleasant
hour was passed in social conversation, and
the ladies at parting were given bouquets
of the beautiful flowers. Guests of honor
present were Sister Bathsheba W. Smith
and Sister Emma S. Woodruff.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	If the good sisters, and our patrons, and
friends of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT will
have patience, and forbearance of our short-
comings, they shall very soon have the
October number, containing the minutes of
the Relief Society Conference and other in-
teresting articles.
	Stakes visited by officers of the Relief
Society, members of Board and others dur-
ing the month of September are Sisters
Mary A. C. Lambert and Hattie B. Harker
Bear Lake, Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde
and Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson St. George
and Parowan. Sisters Priscilla Smith and
Clara L. Clawson Panguitch, also expected
to visit Kanab but did not get time. It is
expected San Juan, Star Valley, St John’s,
Snowflake, St. Joseph, Maricopa and Juarez
will be visited during the year, this will
complete the entire list of Conferences.


[Column 1]
	VISIT IN ST. GEORGE STAKE.
	Sisters Ann C Woodbury and Emma
Morris, of the St. George presidency of the
Relief Society, and Mary G. Whitehead,
of the Primary, with Brother Samuel Miles
as driver, left St. George, Thursday, the
28th of July, and stopped overnight at
Chadburns. 29th, went on to Pine Valley,
held meeting at 2 p.m. with the Relief
Society, were very pleased to have the
Bishop and a number of the brethren meet
with us. At 4 p.m. we met with the Pri-
mary, a good spirit prevailed. The bishop
blessed us with his presence, which was
very encouraging. We had a good rain
that night, which was very gratifying, also
a boon to the country, as the crops needed
it badly. Went on to Pinto and met with
the Primary at 10 a.m. next day. It was
refreshing to meet with the bright children,
who paid good attention. We took dinner
with the Relief Society president, Sophia
H. Forsyth, after which we had a meeting
of the Society, and then went to Enterprise.
President Lydia Winsor entertained us for
the night. Sunday morning we met with
the Sabbath school, then we held a Primary
meeting. We took dinner with Sister Bar-
locher.
	In the afternoon, after the sacrament
was administered, the Bishop turned the
meeting over to the sisters, and we had an
enjoyable time. Bishop gave us much en-
couragent. Afterwards went on to Thomas
Terry’s ranch, where we were kindly en-
tertained. August 1st we traveled on to
Clover, there we met Brother Lyman Woods
and family, they are all that live there. We
held a meeting, with twenty-one present,
counting the children, and had an enjoy-
able time. Brother and Sister Woods are
in poor health, their farm is almost de-
stroyed through the railroad draining their
meadow land; but we rejoiced to meet with
a people that were thirsting for righteous-
ness. We spent the night there. The fol-
lowing day traveled twenty-five miles to
Panacca. President Sarah Lee gave us a
hearty welcome; and held a meeting at 10
a.m. next day with Primary. We were
invited to Brother John Lee’s to dinner,
and had a nice time with the sisters. In
the afternoon we met with the Relief Soci-
ety and had a lovely lot of sisters present.
President Lee invited all the sisters to meet
at her house at 7 o’elock p.m.. and had a
nice sociable time—ice cream and cake,
with a select program.
	On the 4th we traveled to Bristol Wells,
thirty-five miles; had to draw water from a
well for the horses; we laid our quilts on the
ground under a tree and had a good night’s
rest. In the morning we found a rattle-
snake under our carriage; it did not hurt
us, so we let it go. On the following day
drove to the Lewis ranch, where we slept
and rested well. Next d[-]y went to Lund,
and met there Brother Adolphus White-
head, Sister Mary Whitehead’s son, and
his wife, who is Sister Morris’ daughter,
and I was welcomed at the home of my
nephew, Brother George Gardner.
	On the 7th of August we met with the
Sabbath school and bore our testimony to
the truth of the Gospel, as it was fast
day. In the afternoon, after sacrament,
Bishop Orin Snow turned the meeting
over to the sisters, and we had a good time
and excellent spirit.
	On the 8th we went to Preston held
meeting at 10 a.m. with the Relief Society,
and at 2 p.m. with the Primary; were en-
tertained at Bishop Arnoldson’s. The peo-
ple all came out to our meetings; we feel
it is a pleasure to meet with the Saints of
God. Returned to Lund that night; the
9th we met at Eva Whitehead’s with the
prominent sisters, talked on the duties of
the officers of the Relief Society in regard
to storing grain and creating a fund for the
benefit of the poor in Zion.
	Aug. 10, started home 13th reached E[-]gle
Valley, held an evening meeting, had a
good turnout; there isn’t many here that
care anything for the Gospel. We reached
Modena on the 14th, rested our horses and
traveled about fifteen miles, and camped
for the night; next morning drove to Holt’s,
for breakfast.
	We arrived home all right, having trav-
eled between four and five hundred miles,
gone eighteen days, held thirteen meetings,
and trust we have done some good in urg-
ing the people to their duties. Ever pray-
ing for the welfare of Zion, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel.
				ANN C. WOODBURY.


[Column 1]
BISHOP’S BIRTHDAY PARTY.
	September 5th, 1904, a very pleasing en-
tertainment and banquet was tendered the
Bishop of the Sixth Ward, Salt Lake City,
Bishop James C. Watson by the brethren,
sisters, friends and guests. Among the in-
vited guests were present Elder Jos. E.
Taylor and wife. The occasion being in
honor of his sixtieth anniversary. The Re-
lief Society Officers and Mutual and Pri-
mary Association were untiring in their
efforts to make it a success, aided and
associated by Counselors Alex Burt, Albert
E. Boulton and Elder Arnold G. Giauque.

[Column 2]
The tables were beautifully decorated with
flowers and ferns, fruits, etc.
	After thanks being offered by Elder
Arnold G. Giauque two hundred and fifty
brethren partook of the supper. The Pres-
dent and young ladies of the Mutual in a
very courteous manner presided over the
tables.
	After supper there were exercises in the
Assembly Hall up stairs. Singing, “Guide
us O Thou Great Jehovah,” led by Elder
Thomas Green. Prayer by Elder Jos.
E. Taylor.
	Brother Taylor in a few well chosen
words congratulated the Bishop on having
attained his sixtieth birthday. Spoke of his
integrity to the Gospel, his kind charitable
acts to the poor, his fortitude during his
long sickness, his energy in attending to his
duties as far as his strength permitted him
Also of the integrity of the Bishop’s par-
ents to the Gospel; their kind acts and
charitable deeds to many who came to Utah
in hard times, who were in need; he had a
warm feeling for the Watson family. Pray-
ed the Lord to ease him of his pain and pro-
long his life if it was His will. Also coun-
seled his family to comfort and cheer him
in his affliction.
	Counselor Alice Butterworth in a very
pleasing manner in behalf of the Sixth
Ward Relief Society, presented the Bishop
with a beautiful life sized photograph of
himself in a neat frame. Spoke of the in-
tegrity of the Bishop to the gospel, his kind
counsel to the Relief Society. Wished him
many happy returns of the day. Counselor
Margaret Leatham spoke of her long ac-
quaintance with the Bishop dating from
her childhood days; she had experienced
the hardships and privations incident to
the early days of Utah with the Bishop and
those who were here in these valleys at that
time. These things had endeared us to
each other.
	President Ellen R. Watson in behalf of
the Relief Society brethren and sisters of
the ward who had so kindly and ably as-
sisted in the entertainment thanked them.
The Bishop must feel honored by the re-
spect and love shown him by the Saints
and friends. Felt to thank her Heavenly
Father for His many blessings, knew He
had sustained the Bishop who had suffered
much pain in his long sickness congratula-
ted him on this his anniversary.
	Sister E. W. Condie appreciated the
kind council the Bishop had given her
prayed the Lord to bless him, and ease him
of his pain and suffering. Wished him
many happy returns of the day.
	First Counselor, of the Stake Relief
Society Lucy Smith Acomb, congratulated
the Bishop on this, his annniversary. Also
presented him with a beautiful birthday
cake decorated with sixty small American
flags.
	President Y. L. M. I. Association, Louisa
Giauque felt honored in assisting on this
occasion. Hoped the Bishop would have
many happy anniversaries, felt to honor him
and wish him many happy returns of the
day.
	Counselor Alexander Burt spoke of the
sterling qualities and integrity of the Bish-
op, his fortitude during his long sickness,
his charitable acts to the poor. Paid
high tribute to his parents who had passed
on the other side.
	Elder James Leatham spoke of his long
acquaintance with the Bishop, his kindness
to the poor, none ever went from his home
without being assisted and a kind word of


encouragement given them. Felt to honor
his parents whom he knew were of the true
blood of Ephraim, for he many times in ad-
ministering to them felt this to be true.
Congratulated the Bishop on this his anni-
versary.
	Counselor Albert E. Poulton also felt to
wish the Bishop many happy returns of the
day. Spoke of his integrity, his endurance
during his two terms of incarceration for the
truth and for obeying the laws of God.
	Elder Thomas Winter spoke of the early
days of Utah the trials and hardships the
Saints underwent at that time. The Bishop
sharing with his parents, brothers and sist-
ers in the same all feel to honor our Bishop
for his integrity to the gospel. The follow-
ing programme was beautifully rendered.
	Recitation, Sister Sarah J. Watson, en-
titled “The Martyrdom of Joseph and Hy-
rum.” Song entitled, “Many Happy Re-
turns of the Day,” by Bro. James H.
Poulton. Organist, Sister Louisa Giauque.
Scotch recitation by Lillie Hunter, “Our
Country Days.” Quartette by Misses Mabel
Poulton, Nettie Poulton, Florence Poulton
and Louisa Giauque, Quartette by Brother
Albert E. Poulton, Albert G. Langton,
George Hickenlooper, James Fullmer, Ray-
mond Cowborne; Entitled “My own dear
Mountain Home.” Song by Primary As-
sociation “Count your many Blessings.”
	Song by Sister Annie Poulton “We’re
growing Old;” Comic Song by Brother
James H. Poulton, entitled “When the
gentle breezes blow.” Song “Alice Where
art Thou,” by the Misses Poulton. Song by
Mabel Poulton, “You’ll remember me.’,
	The Bishop in his closing remarks thank-
ed his counselors and Relief Society, Mutual,
Primary Officers, young ladies all who had
so ably assisted in this entertainment to
make it such a grand success. Felt proud
of the brethren and si[-]ters of the Sixth
Ward. Thanked his Heavenly Father for
all His blessings bestowed on him. Of him-
self he could have done but little.
	In looking at the Photo presented to him
his heart was too full for many words, he
did thank the Relief Society and all who
aided in this. He would not feel satisfied
until a similar photo of our late and honored
Bishop Hickenlooper was also placed in
this Hall. Invoked the blessing of the Lord
on all the interests of Zion.
	Benediction was then pronounced by
Elder Hugh C. Watson.
						E. W. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


DEATH OF A PIONEER.

MRS. JANE McCUNE GARDNER CLOSES A WELL
				SPENT LIFE.
	Mrs. Jane McCune Gardner, a pioneer of 1847
died in Murray June 21st, 1904, at the home of her
daughter, Mrs. Margaret Miller, of acute old age.
	The deceased was a native of Canada, where
she was born July 24, 1823. She joined the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1844, and
emigrated to Utah in 1847, arriving in Salt Lake
valley in October of that year, a few months after
the Pioneers, being a member of Bishop Hunter’s
company. 
	She lived with her husband Robert Gardner in
this valley up to 1862, when she was called to
settle in St. George, Washington Co., and later
moved to Pine Valley, where she has resided ever
since, Sister Gardner joined the Relief Society in
Pine Valley at the organization April 1st, 1874, at-
tended and did her part faithfully as a member
and as a worker, and was elected Second Counse-
lor to Sister D. M. Slade, Feb. 16th, 1886, which
[-]ffice she filled satisfactorily to the sisters and with
[-]onor to herself.


Sept. 16th, 1894, she was honorably released as
she went to Murray, Salt Lake City, to stay with
her daughters, and sent her resignation to the sis-
ters of the Relief Society, but in the spring she 
returned to Pine Valley though she often come to
stay with her daughters in Murray as Pine Valley
is very cold in winter and trying to old people,
but would return in the spring, as she was warmly
attached to home where her aged husband still re-
mains.
	Her heart was with the work of Relief Society,
and she did all she could with her poor health
when she was with us here.
	There were present at her bedside when she
passed away Mrs. Mary Jane Miller and Mrs.
Margaret Miller of Murray, and Mrs. Elizabeth
Helm of Mill creek, and a number of grand-chil-
ren among them Bishop U. G. Miller of Murray.
	Mrs. Gardner was the mother of 12 children, 9
of whom survive her, she leaves 71 grand-children,
30 great-grandchildren, and one great-great-grand
child, the latter being Riva the one year-old
daughter of Walter Cluff of Provo. William Gard-
ner who spent some years in New Zealand as a
missionary, and James Gardner counselor to Bish-
op C. C. Christensen of Kanosh, are her sons;
Reuben G. Miller, President of the Emery Stake
and Bishop U. G Miller of Murray are her grand-
sons, and she has left many relatives and friends
to mourn her departure, she was a very faithful
Latter-day Saint and a faithful wife and mother.
					L, C. GARDNER.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The first conference of the Relief Soci-
ety of the new Salt Lake Stake of Zion
was held in the 14th ward meeting-house
Sat. Sept. 24, 1904, the morning session
commencing at 10:30 a m., the afternoon
session at 2: p. m., Pres. Clarissa S. Will-
iams presiding.
	There was a large attendance at each 
session and a most interesting program was
carried out. Pres. Bathsbeba W. Smith,
Sec. Emmeline B. Wells, Sisters Alice
Merrill Horne, of the General Board of
Relief Society, Pres. Edward T. Ashton,
Sister Clara C. Cannon and other distin-
guished visitors were present.
	Reports were made by the several ward
Presidents of the Stake who reported all the
branches as being in excellent condition.
All were working harmoniously and united-
ly in their efforts in looking after and re-
lieving the poor, needy and the sick.
	Pres. Edward T. Ashton spoke most en-
couragingly of the work being done by the
Sisters of the Relief Society. He thought
they were doing a most noble work and
would surely be blessed in their labors.
Asked God’s blessing upon all.
	Pres. Bathsheba W. Smith spoke of the
organization of the first Relief Society by
the Prophet Joseph Smith with but 18
members, she being the only surviving
one of that number—this being the
Relief Society that was organized in Nau-
voo. Said it is a great thing to receive the
blessing of a poor, honest person to whom
we have done some little kindness. The
Lord will bless us in all we do for those less
fortunate than we are, and we will receive
ten fold for all we give to those who are in
need and for helping the sick.
	Sec. Emmeline B. Wells spoke of the
great work the Relief Society is accom-
plishing all over the world. She asked the
Sisters not to think that they are being
overworked. We may all feel like we have
enough to do already, but we should res-
pond to any call made of us by the Priest-
hood. She closed by repeating the quota-
tion, “The sun never sets on the Relief
Society.”

[Column 2]
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne told of some
of her experiences while abroad recently at
tending the International Congress of Wo-
men held in Berlin. There were 25 different
councils met there and were made up of in-
telligent women. She found the women
anxious to learn of Utah and her people.
	Pres. Clarissa S. Williams made a verbal
report of the work in general that had been
accomplished since our organization. She
said a conference would be held in each
ward of our Stake one Sunday evening of
each year for the purpose of presenting the
work that is being done by the Sisters of
the Relief Society to the people of the dif-
ferent wards that the purpose of the work
may be better known. Asked that these
conferences be the best meetings of the
year. Dates would be arranged so as to
give the Stake officers an opportunity to
visit each conference. The Bishopric
would be consulted as to which dates would
be best.
	Sisters Mary Katz, Annie Brown and
daughter and little Annie Walsh favored all
present with beautiful singing.
	One pleasant feature of the conference
was had at the close of the morning session
when all participated in a luncheon which
was served by a committee chosen from all
the ward branches of the Relief Society.
	Another pleasing feature was the organi-
zation of a Stake Relief Society choir with
Sisters Emily Lewis as chorister, and Lelia
Timpson as organist.
	Pres. Williams stated that we would hold
but two conferences each year the dates not
yet being definitely decided upon.
	MARTHA P. SMITH, Stake Secretary.

		LIBERTY STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of Liberty
Stake convened Sept. 3, 1904, in the sec-
ond ward meeting house, Salt Lake City,
at 10 a. m. President Annie S. Musser pre-
siding, and all the members of stake board
being present also General President Bath-
sheba W. Smith and Counselor Annie T.
Hyde. Meeting opened by singing “Re-
deemer of Israel etc.” Prayer by Sister
Frances M. Smith. Singing, “How Firm
a Foundation etc.” Roll called each ward
responding. Minutes of previous confer-
ence, also the statistical and financial report
read and approved.
	A verbal report was given of all the
wards in the stake, by the respective presi-
dents, all were prospering and in the line
of their duty.
	President Musser welcomed the sisters,
and introduced President B. W. Smith who
spoke on Temple work, and related many
incidents in the early history of the church.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde was pleased
with the good reports given, urged the sist-
ers to continue the lectures, and sustain the
authorities by faith and prayers.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson spoke on the dut-
ies of teachers, we must be humble, prayer-
ful and united, and strive to do right.
	Closed by singing “Praise to the Man
etc.,” after which prayer was offered by
Sister Sarah Chamberlain.
	Afternoon session: Conference reconven-
ed at 2 o’clock, President B. W. Smith,
Counselor Annie T. Hyde and Secretary
Emmeline B. Wells of the General Gfficers
and S. J. Cannon, E. Webb, L. W. Kimb-
all and E. J. Stevenson, being present.
Singing, “Now let us Rejoice, etc.”
Prayer by Sister Elizabeth Webb, contin


ued by singing, “We Thank Thee O God
for a Prophet, etc.” President Smith again
addressed the sisters, and said let our works
be works of righteousness, and gave many
good instructions. Sister Emmeline B. Wells
gave a short lecture on the subject of
“Peace” and felt through the efforts of
woman a better condition of things could
be effected.
	Counselor Z. J. Eardley presented the
names of the general board also the names
of the officers of Liberty Stake all were un-
animously sustained. 
	Sister Maggie Hull favored us with a
solo. Sister Sarah J. J. Cannon member of
the General Board exhorted us, to do all
the good we could and search out the
worthy poor, made many excellent sugges-
tions, referred to some of President George
Q. Cannon’s views on peace.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde said if we were
true followers of Christ, in the true sense
of the word, we would be advocates for
peace all the time, try and carry a peaceful
influence with us, and we would be the
means of doing much good, also spoke about
the nurses class.
	Sister Lucy W. Kimball gave the sisters
some very good advice. Sister Elizabeth
Webb thought it our duty to assist the young
to keep in the straight and narrow path, and
do good at all times.
	Sister Hull favored us with another solo.
	President Musser thanked all who had
helped to make our conference a success.
Adjourned for three months. Singing
“Prayer is the Soul’s Sincere Desire.” Ben-
ediction by Counselor Mary E. Hodgson.
	LIZZIE ROBBINS, Stake Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
CLOSE OF BERLIN MEETINGS
Mrs. Ida H. Harper writes:
	It was a fitting culmination of the most
remarkable Congress of Women ever held
that it should close with an official recep-
tion by the burgermeister and Municipal
Council of Berlin, capital of the vast and
powerful German Empire.
	The Rath-Haus, or town hall, is one of
the many imposing edifices for which this
city is noted, and was honestly built in
1861-70, at a cost of 10,000,000 marks. Its
tower is 243 feet in hight, and the inter-
ior is rich with paintings, sculpture, and
decorations such as are not found in any
building in the United States. The broad
marble staircase was so banked with
palms and flowers as to have the appear-
ance of a garden on either side. At the
top is a lofty and spacious hall with many
marble columns, and in the centre a large
fountain surrounded by blooming and aqu-
atic plants. Near this, with the ladies of
the Berlin Council Committee, stood the
Board of Magistrates, with heavy gold
chains and medals about their necks, to ex-
tend a cordial welcome to the guests. The
latter numbered 600—visitors to the Con-
gress and prominent men and women of
Berlin—and after the invitations were is-
sued, no pressure could secure one addi-
tional, so rigid and systematic are the re-
strictions which prevail here in everything.
At nine o’clock the magnifieent banquet
hall—the Fest Saal—was thrown open,
showing tables far more richly decorated
than would be possible in our White House.
The marble pillars, coffered ceiling, carved
oak doors, richly panelled walls, beautiful
chandeliers, paintings and statuary, made
a picture not to be forgotten.

[Column 2]
	The toasts were the significant feature of
the evening. It was not a slight and irre-
levant circumstance that a burgermeister of
Berlin, an official of high rank, elected for
twelve years, should for the first time in
all history welcome a gathering of women
in the town hall of the city. Nor was this
a perfunctory and meaningless function,
for standing in the place of honor, with dis-
tinguished women from all parts of the
globe on either side of him, he said, in the
course of an extended speech:
	“Who can fail to recognize the fact that
the women’s movement of today, pressing
forward with the might of an elementary
force, contains a sound and valuable foun-
dation, that it ushers in a significant and
promising epoch in the development of the
human race? That this fact is recognized—
willingly and joyfully recognized—among
the men of this city, let this festivity this
evening bear witness to the women. And
so, in behalf of the municipal authorities of
Berlin, I welcome the members of the Inter-
national Woman’s Congress with all my
heart as co-workers for the welfare of hu-
manity in the sphere of public life. May
all the hopes that the women themselves
attach to this movement be completely real-
ized, and may their co-operation bear rich
and abundant fruit!”
	Burgermeister Kirschner was followed by
Dr. Langerhaus, president of the Board of
Magistrates, or aldermen, and for many
years a member of the Prussian House of
Deputies. He made a most progressive ad-
dress in which he used these unmistakable
words:
	“We fully support your efforts for justice
and we gladly take our stand in favor of
equal rights for women and men. . . .
Rest assured that we have followed your
proceedings wilh the greatest interest, and
that we will cheerfully support you
till you have attained your goal of equal
rights for men and women.”
	At the close of each of these addresses
the whole company sprang to their feet
with uplifted glasses and cries of “Hoch!
hoch!” whose fervor never can be under-
stood till one has heard them given by an
audience of Germans. And then in this
great hall, one woman after another lifted
to a chair that they might be seen and heard
expressed their appreciation of the welcome
extended by Germany to the Congress and
its ideas, and voiced their determination
never to cease their efforts till all that they
stood for had been attained; and not a dis-
senting opinion was evoked from all the
throng of listeners.
	Twice has this International Council been
held in our country, and during past years
many other large meetings have called
there the distinguished women of the
world. Never have they received such
official recognition from any city in which
their conventions have been held.
	This International Council and Congress
have demonstrated in a high degree the
wonderful organizing ability of German
women, as the arrangements were entirely
in their hands. It was a wholly new ex-
perience for them, but they put into it the
same system and thoroughness with which
for generations they have managed their
households, and the German “hausfrau”
is noted among the women of all nations
The Philharmonie, where the meetings
were held, is one of the largest music halls
in the world, and has under one roof four
great audience rooms, besides many others
for various purposes. It was turned over

[Column 3]
to the Berlin Committee of eleven women
just three days before the Congress was to
open, and at once they put a hundred peo-
ple at work. Temporary partitions were
made wherever needed, and thus long cor-
ridors and bare apartments were trans-
formed into art galleries, drawing-rooms,
cafes, tea-rooms, writing rooms, rest-rooms,
etc. Paint was used where it seemed
necessary, draperies, tapestries, and pic-
tures were hung, the platforms were banked
with flowers, the court was transformed
into a garden, and the long entrance porti-
coes into a bower of evergreens. Tables
were provided in each of the four halls for
fifty reporters, and they were present at
most of the meetings. A large room was
equipped with every facility for their send-
ing off reports, including telephone and
telegraph. The government itself estab-
lished a branch post office in the lobby.
Not a detail was omitted which would add
to comfort or convenience, and all this
splendid arrangement was the work of
women, and so perfectly planned that it
could be carried to completion in three
days.
	The program book itself was a marvel, a
pasteboard covered volume of 140 pages,
well indexed. It opened with a brief his-
tory of the Council, what it expected to do,
and a comprehensive introduction to the
various departments which the congress
would consider—education, industries and
professions, charities and philanthropies,
laws, etc. These were followed by the
names of officers, committees, delegates,
and speakers, by countries and alphabetic-
ally; the constitution, by-laws, new amend.
ments proposed, report of last executive
meeting, the full program for every hour,
and a plat and guide for the intricacies of
Philharmonie Hall. Then came the day,
date and directions for all the social enter-
tainments; list of the arts and crafts exhib-
its and the various public institutions which
would be open to the visitors; the addresses
of all the embassies and consulate; location
of the various churches; the galleries and
museums, with hours of admission, the
monuments, open-air gardens and exhibi-
tions, the art shops, the high schools, the
theatres, the popular excursions. Next
were names of hotels, pensions and restaur-
ants which were vouched for; then of
women doctors and dentists; also the street
and number for baths and hairdressers,
steamship offices and railroad stations, lost
and found bureaus, police stations and
emergency hospitals, the legal rate for car-
riage hire, and lastly an excellent map of
Berlin. Really, it seemed to be the most
complete thing of the kind ever issued.
	Before the Congress opened, 2,500 season
tickets had been sold at six marks, (about
$1.50) and hundreds of day tickets were
purchased at two marks. There were over
fifty ushers, all young women from the
high schools under the direction of Fraulein
Alice Salomon, a graduate of Berlin Uni-
versity. Four meetings were in session at
the time in the different rooms, people
going from one to the other, between
speeches, to hear those in whom they were
especially interested, but all was quiet and
orderly. The discipline which one sees
everywhere in Germany was evident here,
and there was never any talking or confu-
sion in the back part of the ball. The ses-
sions began in the morning at nine o’clock
and lasted till half past one or two, and
from eight until ten or eleven in the eve-
ning. Whether the men thought they


[Column 1]
were not wanted, or whether they did not
desire to come, they certainly were not in
evidence, but how the women did swarm
into those halls! Morning and evening,
day after day, young and old, pretty and
homely, well gowned and badly dressed,
eager, alert, hungering and thirsting, ap-
proving with cries of “So, so,” or dissent-
with “Nein, nein,” and rising en masse
when greatly pleased—such an interested,
appreciative, inspiring audience!
	There never was anything like it in
Germany before. There have been, indeed,
but few public meetings here, but it seemed
as if the German women had been ponder-
ing over these questions in their hearts for
many years, and now they were ready to
give them expression. This is not a peo-
ple of fads, quick, spontaneous, superficial
as Americans are apt to be, but slow, con-
servative, philosophical, and speaking at
last with well digested and substantial
thought. That this Council of Women has
stirred Germany, and especialiy Berlin, to
its depths, cannot be doubted by those who
have followed the press comments and
watched the developments of the past weeks.
Nor can it be doubted that its results will
be far-reaching and permanent, for the very
reason that the foundation has been so long
in building. The German women are now
thoroughly organized, they have learned
their power, they have received the recog-
nition of their government, and never again
will they drop back into the subordinate
place which for ages they have been taught
it was divinely ordained they should occu
py. A generation ago the German Empire
was born, and it has made greater progress
in the last thirty years than in all the cen-
turies which preceded, but it has been princi-
pally of a military and commercial charact-
er. The time is now propitious for the
finer and more spiritual force of woman-
hood to make itself felt, and some day in
the future Germany will inscribe another
date on the monuments which record its
achievements—June, 1904—the date which
marked the founding of a new dynasty for
the women of the nation.
	And now the International Congress is a
memory—a recollection of warm, sunny
days, with scarcely a cloud in the sky, of
mornings filled with earnest work and in-
tellectual stimulus; of afternoons in lovely
gardens, with the tea tables under the trees
and the groups of interesting men and
women gathered about them; of new friend-
ships formed and new thought absorbed; of
fresh hope and courage inspired by the
knowledge that throughout all countries
life is growing brighter for women, and
they are striving to make conditions bright-
er for women, and they are striving to
make conditions better for all mankind.
Such beautiful memories we shall carry
home across the seal and with them will
be the remembrance of the splendid city of
Berlin, with its miles of magnificent build-
ings, strong, solid, enduring—emblematic
of the German character. There is not a
city in America which can approach it in
beauty, in order, in cleanliness. We have
but few public buildings which equal those

[Column 2]
of Berlin. There are more large parks
here than in all the cities of the United
States combined, and we have no fountains
which can compare with any one of a dozen
here; all of our statues together fall below
those in this one city in number, and far
below them in artistic merit. Our art col-
lections and museums are not to be men-
tioned in comparison, and we have nothing
which approaches in historic interest these
old palaces and castles.
	There are miles of apartment houses
here but instead of American monstrosities
every story has its overhanging balconies,
filled with bright blossoms and trailing
vines; there is scarcely an individual house
set on a line with the street, but all have
beautiful gardens in front, so that the whole
city looks like a vast conservatory of flow-
ers Through its very centre run both the
canal and the river Spree, but instead of a
disfigurement they are a distinct addition to
its beauty, for extending along either side
are grassy parks with great trees reaching
out over the water, while every bridge that
crosses is embellished with statues and bal-
ustrades and made an ornament to the
street. The elevated trains run over miles
of fine stone arches, with practically no
noise, and each station is surrounded with
a little park with trees and shrubs. On
these and the electric cars the fare is two
cents. No building is more than five stor-
ies in height, and there is not a shadow of
smoke over the entire city. The streets
everywhere are spotless, not a vestige of
dirt or litter, and yet Berlin is a city of
2,500,000 inhabitants. It has no slums and
even its poverty is clean. There is never a
suspicion of scandal attached to its municip-
al government, which is looked upon as
absolutely incorruptible
	And yet, and yet—what is this indefin-
able chill which seems constantly to envelop
one which compels him to speak low and
walk circumspectly? It is that ever pres-
ent and all-permeating military discipline.
Every particle of spontaneity is trained out
of the children, and as soon as the boys are
grown they are put into the army. The
rigid obedience to authority there instilled
goes with them through life and is appar-
ent in every calling. The result is a defer-
ence of each class to the one above it, and,
alas! the inability of any member of it to
rise above the sphere into which he was
born. But when the German goes into the

[Column 3]
United States and into their unattractive
and badly governed towns and cities, he
finds there a freedom of speech, a liberty of
action an opportunity for the individual de-
velopment of himself and his children,
worth far more to him than even the beauty
and historic associations of his fatherland,
and he seldom wishes to leave the new life
and go back to the old. So we women of
America, seeing clearly the superiority of
European cities in countless things, and
realizing fully the imperfections of our own
government, nevertheless believe that it
holds far more of promise for us and those
we love than any other.
				Woman’s Journal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
OBSTETRICS

Dr. Margaret G. Roberts
	Will commence her next class in Obstet-
rics on Monday, October 10, 1904. This
class will also have the advantage of at-
tending the RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE
CLASS taught by Dr. Roberts. For fur-
ther information, communicate with Dr.
Roberts, 79 C Street. Telephone 2002.

R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St, Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.						TRY US


DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP
	Will open a class in Nursing and Ob-
	stetrics on Monday, Oct 10, 1904, at
	her home, 713 Second Street, Salt Lake
	City. Those desiring to attend will
	please communicate personally or by
	letter. This class recommended by the
	General Board of the Relief Society.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit marritd
	women and also children who are minors,
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No 1 Main Street.


CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
					AND NURSING.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt will commence her
class in Midwifery and Nursing October 10, 1904.
	One student free. Write for particulars.
	This class recommended by the General
Board of the Relief Society.


MRS. EMILY EVERETT, who died in Cam-
bridge, Sept. 23, was, as far as known, the
oldest person in the city. She was aged
105 years, 7 months and 19 days. She was
born in Haverhill, Mass., on Feb. 4, 1799,
and lived in three centuries Mrs. Everett
was the daughter of Rev. Abiel Abbot,
D. D. For several years she lived in Hal-
lowell, Me., Beverly, and Dorchester. She
took up her residence in Cambridge, in
1745. W. A. Everett is the only surviving
member of the family.
	MRS. EMELINE M. NORTH, of San Fran-
cisco, who has been invited to speak at the
International Educational Congress which
meets in Paris, has the reputation of being
an accomplished linguist. She speaks, it
is said, all the languages of the civilized
world, and is now studying Chinese.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 33					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1904.						No. 5.


CONTENTS.
The Flag and the Child,—Augusta Joyce
	Crocheron...........................................	33
Tenement Life in New York,—Edith Ivins
	Lamoreaux..........................................	33
To the Women of the United States of Amer-
	ica.......................................................	34
Peace Proposals..........................................	34
Progress......................................................	35
Character............................Rose B Musser	35
Utah Woman’s Press Club...................M F.	35
An Old Letter..............Sarah M. Cleveland	37
Mother’s Work............................................	37
Parting....................................Mark Brown	37
Sketch of Sister Durrant.............................	37
Sketch of Ruth Hayward............................	38
R. S. Reports: Bear Lake Stake—L. Fuller	38
			Juab Stake.........S. Chappel	38
			Emery Stake.....Maria Allen	38
			Weber Stake....C. E. Driver	38
			Alpine Stake.E. Featherstone	39
Edwin D. Mead’s Address.Woman’s Journal	40
EDITORIAL:—Relief Society Notice.......	36
			Peace Demonstration..........	36
			Editorial Notes....................	36


THE FLAG AND THE CHILD.

Rich at last from his mountain mines,
He said: “We will travel far,
My dearest ones shall see and know
What the world and its splendors are.”
So they went by rail and they went by steam
To the Old World far away,
But the little one sighed wearily
And paler grew day by day.

“Dearest, what is it? You’ve but to speak 
And all that you wish may claim?”
Then the dark eyes drooped and in heartsick
	tones.
The little one’s answer came.
“I know ’tis beautiful, and ’tis wrong
That I cannot happy be;
But I want to go back, our mountain home
Is better than all to me.”

So they bade farewell to splendors all, 
But train and ship seemed slow.
To the little one who gazed far ahead
For the scenes that she loved so
One day on deck some one unfurled 
Our country’s flag, and the child—
Leaped and caught it in fond embrace,  
With laughter and sobbings wild.

Hushed for a moment by the sight,
Each foreigner bowed his head;
Then one who was greatest there, stepped forth
And with reverence grave, he said:
“Great is that country, where its child
Has the soul of a patriot man!
Men of Valor! Salute with me,
The little American!”

Year after year, from her father’s mines 
The stream of gold will flow;
And through the years, the loyal child
To perfect womanhood grow.
And suitors will come from far and near 
Her beauty, and wealth to see;
But the Prince of Love who will win her heart,
An American will be.
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Erda, August, 1904.


[Column 1]
TENEMENT LIFE IN NEW YORK.

EDITH IVINS LAMOREAUX.
	The saying that we do not appreciate our
blessings until deprived of them is no truer
anywhere than in regard to our appreciation
of our own dear homes in Utah. So many
of our young people married at home are
beginning to enjoy (?) tenement life and to
advocate it, especially in Salt Lake City.
God forbid that it should ever become so
popular as it seems necessary in New York

[Column 2]
City. To our sisters in the country who
read this, the question will come. What
is it any way? ’Tis for them I am writing.
Not an elaborate description of the homes
of New York, of which I as yet know but
little, but a comparison between our own
home here (and there are thousands just
like it) and those you are now enjoying,
humble indeed many of them, but for the
most part all your very own. While all
but about 5 percent of the people of Utah
own their homes there is only about 5 per
cent of the people here who own a home or
anything they can call their own except it
be their clothing and furniture. In conse-
quence the four millions of people are
crowded into flats one on top of the other,
some of the houses being ten stories high,
and some containing as many as fifty fami-
lies. But you say that does not include
children. Don’t it, though? Just get out
some night among the poorer districts or
even the middle classes, and the street will
be so full you can scarcely crowd your way
through without pushing some little tot
over. But I was to describe “our flat” and
the daily life of a missionary’s wife here.
	There are ten families of us in a house of
four stories. We live on the third floor.
All use the same front hall and stairway.
No matter how much contagion there might
be in the house, a[-]l have got to pass through
this hall to reach their flat. All use the same
clothes lines, which are up on the house
roof. If your clothes are left out all night
there may be some sheets, etc., missing
next day, but that isn’t much. You would
not think of going to one of your neigh-
bors and comparing sheets, etc. as they
were all hanging in rows together any-
how, and how should they remember which
is theirs at all times.
	You meet all classes here.  While some
are fine people and as honorable as any of
our neighbors at home, some are foreigners,
Italian and Spaniards, etc., and the less you
have to do with them the better. To know
one’s next door neighbor, or even step into
her home is a rarity.
	Of course they don’t like us. Why
should they? Jesus said “Ye are not of the
world else the world would love you,” and
we do not wish them to, except it be for
our virtues. While we try to be quiet and
peaceable, courteous and kind to all, yet
the fact that a “Mormon” family is in the
house is enough to keep all the sisters busy
watching us. They need only the sligh[-]est
provocation too for an excuse to have us if
possible removed. We have as yet had no
serious trouble, but this rule prevails gen-
erally among our people all over the city.
	We have five rooms, hall and bath, the
latter being modern and very fine. All the
rooms are on one floor, and all except the
kitchen are light and very pleasant, situated
as we are on a corner The kitchen though
has only one window, which opens out in-
to a shaft running from the ground to roof,
through which everyone’s kitchen odors es-
cape, judging from the fumes which some-
times reach us. This is our back yarn, all
we have and our only use of it is to some-
times hang out a few clothes to keep from

[Column 3]
going to the roof, or to keep milk and but-
ter cool on the window sill. The kitchen
contains a small stove, a nice cupboard, two
stationary stone wash tubs, the lids of
which serve as tables, and a small sink over
the water taps, just large enough for a
small dish pan. There is no pantry nor
store-room, so we can only buy enough
food to last for a day or so, which can be
tucked away in the cupboard or under the
wash tubs.
	Our door bell and whistle are in the
kitchen. The latter is used by the janitor
(who lives with his family in the basement),
to call us to the dumb waiter or warn us to
flee in case of fire.
	The dumb waiter is a small cupboard
which is run up and down a shaft by means
of pulleys, for the purpose of carrying all
our garbage down, and our coal, ice, m[-]lk,
etc., up. Each evening at 6 o’clock the
whistle blows and we must hurry with our
garbage-bucket, old paper, ashes and any-
thing else we do not wish to keep to the
waiter. It is all emptied down cellar and
the bucket sent back “while you wait.” If
you don’t wait but think to get your bucket
later you may find only an old tin can, as
“first come first served” applies here as
well as elsewhere.
	When callers come they ring your bell
by pressing a button under your mail box
in the vestibule, and they cannot come up
stairs till you in return press a button on
the kitchen wall, which unlocks the front
halldoor. What a bother I hear some
hurried house wife say. Yes, and very ag-
gravating too when you discover often af-
ter your several trips to the kitchen that it
is only some old peddler, a beggar or the
small bo[-] of the street who delights in teas-
ing—or the “Mormon” missionary—for
that’s the way they gain admission too
when out tracting.
	Our flat is supposed to be steam heated,
having two small radiators for the whole
house. But we haven’t felt any heat yet.
There are no chimneys in any room but the
kitchen, hence we cannot furnish our own
“hot blast;” but in lieu whereof we have
a small coal oil stove which, until our steam
heat comes, we are firced to carry from
room to room, as we desire to be comfort-
able in our different daily routine. It is to
me indeed laughable.
	Still, some one says it is nice to have
your house steam heated (when it does come)
with no dirt nor work on your part, to have
plenty of boiling water to u[-]e day or night,
to cook on a gas stove without the dirt and
ashes so common to the lot of women; and
to have your work all on one floor.
	Yes, ’tis true. But for myself I prefer
more work if necessary, in a house of my
own with pleasant surroundings, a yard for
children to play in, a porch or lawn on
which to spend a pleasant afternoon, a tiny
spot for early garden stuff, and above all a
home by one’s self where we can train our
children in the paths of purity and truth
without being forced to come in contact
with the worst class at times if we allow
them any outside liberties at all. Oh,
there are so many things at home, so pleas-


ant, that these poor souls here, many of
them never yet dreamed of Then let us,
sisters, try to appreciate them. Let us as
mothers see to it that never through our
extravagance or influence shall our homes
be mortgaged, but through our economy
and frugality keep expenses down, that
fathers may never have that excuse, and if
in the growing desire among some to specu-
late upon their property husbands are
tempted to sell, let us all use our subtle
power and it is mighty, against it, that we
may ever have an inheritance in Zion.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	TO THE WOMEN OF THE UNITED
		STATES OF AMERICA.
	Some weeks ago I received a letter ask-
ing that I should add mv signature to many
others which were affixed to a protest against
the admission of any more states into the
Union under constitutions providing for the
disfranchisement of women. I gladly ac-
ceded to the request, but I confess that I 
did not at the time quite understand the
enormity of the offence, which, from my
point of view, is being committed against
American womanhood. Had I, I should
have wished to write my name in capitals,
and long ago should have appealed to my
countrywomen to join me in an expression
of resentment against the bill proposing the
admission of four of our territories as two
new states, which I understand is now in
the hands of the Committee on Territories
No objection have I to having the Indian
Territory and Oklahoma, New Mexico and
Arizona pass from the tutelage of territor-
ial government into the joy and dignity of
sovereign statehood, but I do protest against
having any bill looking to this transition in-
dicate to the incipient states that they may
be admitted to the Union under constitu-
tions which disfranchise their women. I
consider the terms of this bill particularly
obnoxious. It seems that the following
occurs twice, appearing first in paragraph
five, section three, of the Bill, and repeated
in paragraph five of section twenty-one.
The part of the Bill which excites my re-
sentment is as follows:
	“The said state shall never enact any
law restricting or abridging the right of
suffrage on account of race, color or pre-
vious condition of servitude, or on aecount
of any other conditions or qualifications,
save and except on account of illiteracy,
minority, sex, conviction of felony, mental
condition or residence, provided, however,
that any such restrictions shall be uniform
and applicable alike to all citizens.” 
	The presentation of a Bill including this
obnoxious paragraph in Congress apparent-
ly gives to the disfranchisement of women
not only a passive acceptance on the part of
the general government, but it seems like
an expression of its active desire. Note
the position of the word “sex,” Placed
between the phrases “minority” and con-
viction of felony,” it is made to seem either
a condition of partial development or of
absolute disgrace. Moreover, this condi-
tion, being born to become a woman, how-
ever it may have been regarded by undevel-
oped races in former times, has always
been and now is considered by developed
peoples an election to particular sacredness
and dignity. The passage of such a Bill
cannot but have a degrading social influ-
ence. It is equivalent to a declaration by
the general government that it is at best an

[Column 2]
unfortunate or evil thing to be born a
woman.
	The general government on all occa-
sions declares what all good patriots are
bound to believe, that citizenship in the
Republic is a lofty privilege; that in a Re-
public the sign of sovereignty, its instru-
ment and weapon is the ballot.
	With the exception of women all classes
which by this Bill are excluded from the
exercise of the ballot, suffer from a limita-
tion which in its very nature is or may be
temporary. Minors have only to wait for
their jubilee birthday; illiterates have to
exert themselves only sufficiently to learn to
read; felons may by the expiration of the
term of years involved in the sentence be
restored to society, or with or without re-
pentance may receive gubernatorial pardon
and gain therewith the elective franchise.
Even lunatics may be restored to sanity, or
without such restoration, to freedom.
	It is sufficiently humiliating to have as-
piring territories knock for entrance into
the sisterhood of states bearing a proposed
constitution which looks to the disfranchise-
ment of half of their adult popu[-]ation; but
to have the United States say to an aspir-
ing territory that the constitution to be ac-
ceptable must brand womanhood with in-
dignity is a still more grievous thing to
bear. This condition is harder to bear now
that in four states of the Union women do
possess the power of acknowledged citizen-
ship, than it was when women throughout
the country were equally helpless and dis-
franchised. It is most improbable that
members of Congress from Wyoming, Utah,
Idaho and Colorado will vote in favor of
this section of the proposed Bill; for where
women already enjoy the right of suffrage
men pay to their opinions the real homage
which theoretically is always given to
the “eternal feminine.”
	I call the particular attention of the
women of the country to the fact that on
the 8th day of June, at a business session of
the Third Quinquennial of the International
Council, the representatives of nineteen
National Councils, including an individual
membership of several millions of women
all voted, without one dissenting voice that
thenceforth the International Council
should stand everywhere committed to the
policy included in the following declara-
tion, that,
	“Inasmuch as all governments equally
effect the men and women living under
them, therefore, be it resolved that under
all governments, whether nominally Repub-
lican or Monarchical whatever political
rights or privileges are accorded to men
ought on corresponding conditions to be ac-
corded to women.”
	The debate upon this subject occupied
three hours. The arguments, for the most 
part, concerned only the form under which
this large conviction of the Council should
be expressed. There was material agree-
ment among the women of all countries
embraced within the Council concerning
the propriety of the essential proposition.
In the end it was in the form cited above,
the broadest in which it was presented,
that the proposition was unanimously voted.
While it is quite true that by the constitu-
tion of the Council every affiliated Council
is left free and may abstain from active
support of Council propaganda, it is also to
be observed that great moral support is
given to propaganda by the vote of so rep-
resentative a body as the Executive of the
International Council of Women.

[Column 3]
	There sat in its Executive sessions the
actual representatives of sixteen of the na-
tions composing it, representing a great di-
versity not only of nationalities, but even
of races, and a still larger diversity of
tongues, faiths and governments; but all
were agreed that the hour had struck for
the abolition of every distinc[-]ion in the poli-
tical rights and privileges of men and wom-
en under whatever form of government
they may exist, which are based upon sex.
	I therefore appeal in the name of the In-
ternational Council of Women to every one
of my countrywomen living in whatever
state or territory, who through membership
in any organization affiliated with the Na-
tional Council of our country, is thereby
connected with the International Council,
to recognize the strength which the vote
cited gives to her individual opinion; and in
this strength I appeal to her in turn to
write to the Senator representing her state
in the United States, protest against the pas-
sage of the sections above cited in the Bill
under which it proposed to add two more to
the galaxy of the states. Thus will the
action taken by a world body in the capital
city of a military empire become effective
as an agency in giving enlarged liberty to
women in a Republic.
	Begging every woman under whose eye
this letter may fall to send at once to Sen-
ator Beveridge for a copy of the Bill above
referred to, and to follow this up by a close
study of the Bill and by an individual pro-
test against the sections indicated, I am,
with abiding faith in the principles of Dem-
ocracy, and with an intense desire to aid in
developing our nominal Democracy into
a genuine Republic, with great esteem for
my countrywomen,
		MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
Honorary President of the International
Council of Women.
	Indianapolis, Ind., November 8th, 1904.


PEACE PROPOSALS.
	Resolutions passed by the Interparlia-
mentary Union at the session of that con-
gress in St. Louis, September, 1904, and
adopted unanimously:
	"Whereas, enlightened public opinion
and the spirit of modern civilization alike
demand that controversies between nations
be settled in the same manner as disputes
between individuals are settled, that is, by
the judgment of courts in accordance with
recognized principles of law.
	“This conference requests that the sever-
al governments send delegates to an inter-
national conference to be convened at a
time and place to be agreed on by them,
for the consideration of the following ques-
tions:
	“1. Questions for the consideration of
which the conference at The Hague ex-
pressed the wish that a future conference
be called.
	“2. The negotiation of arbitration trea-
ties between the nations represented at the
conference to be convened.
	“3 The advisability of creating a con-
gress of nations to convene periodically for
the discussion of international questions.
	And respectfully and cordially requests
the President of the United States to invite
all the nations to send representatives to
such a conference.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


PROGRESS.
When the foundations of the earth were laid.
	And darkness hover’d o’er the space.
This good “world beautiful” so perfect made,
	And sun and stars had found their place,
Then darkness fled before the coming day—
	When God proclaimed “Let there be light!”
For His Omnipotence, and pow’r held sway
	And He divided day and night.
Fair morning in her maiden beauty rose
	All blushes like a virgin bride;
The world awaken’d from the night’s repose
	By Her sweet presence beautified
’Twas then the morning stars together sung,
	And angels minister’d, on earth;
All nature’s voices in glad chorus rung,
	Rejoicing in the world’s new birth—
For m[-]n was born, and unto him was given 
	Dominion over living things,
And woman, fresh from out the courts of heav’n,
	A benediction with her brings—
The dawn of progress in a new-born race,
	The growth of beings multiplied.
And down the ages filling time and place
	True knowledge life has glorified.

There have been wonders in the long ago.
	Empires have flourish’d in their day.
Their thrones, and kingdoms, their great works
		laid low,
	Their progress crush’d and pass’d away
We boast of great achievements in our time,
	Of ingenuity and wondrous skill.
Talk of the sciences in flights sublime,
	Controling forces at their will
Men have won laurels in the halls of fame,
	Have solv’d great problems, to be sure.
But can they justly lasting merit claim
	For progress made that will endure?
And who can say what progress most has done
	To help mankind to higher things?
What vict’ry have we gain’d, what triumph won,
	With all that art and science brings?
Wise men of old, e’en prophets in their time
	Have dealt with life’s great mysteries;
And poets sung in rhythmic strains sublime
	Thro’ the long line of centuries.

In the meridian of time the Savior came,
	“The Golden Rule” to man He taught
And by His teaching, and thro’ Jesus name
	The world receiv’d new light, new thought.
He who has given to the world his best,
	Who has some blessed message brought,
And ministers to human souls distress’d
	Has far the greater progress wrought.
We hail the day, when knowledge shall Increase,
	And cover earth from sea to sea;
When all mankind shall dwell in perfect peace.
	And light and truth obtain the vict’ry.
					EMMELINE B. WELLS.


[Column 1]
CHARACTER,
BY ROSE B. MUSSER.
	Lecture given at Wasatch Stake Relief
Society conference, held in Heber City,
June, 1904.
	“There is a structure which everybody,
both young and old, is building. It is
called character, and every act of life is a
stone thereof, and every desire forms some
part.”
	Honesty, faithfulness, sincerity and pur-
ity are the mighty corner[-]tones of charac-
ter. They should be laid as soon as a child
begins to notice indeed even before it is
born.
	“Our minds are given us, but our char-
acters we make.” The-God given powers
necessary to produce a man of character are
not character, no more than the raindrop
is the fountain. The ocean beach is com-
posed of numberless grains of sand, so
character is formed by just so many little
thoughts and acts.
	Character and reput[-]tion are not the
same. Character is the apple, reputation
the colored peel. Reputation may find its
reward among groveling humanity, while
character awaits its vindication, if necessary,
in eternity. Reputation is what men think
you are, Character is what you are. The
persecuting Jews were high in reputation

[Column 2]
but wholly deficient in character. Jesus
sustained a good character but bore a bad
reputation.
	Parents are responsible, to a large extent,
for the condition of their children’s charac-
ters, being as they are living examples un-
to them. Viewing it in this light, how
necessary that we be strictly honest, pure
and sincere. God gives us these sweet
little innocents, and expects us to be strong
examp es unto them. This ca[-]not be if
our thoughts are not p[---]. Parents some-
times talk about their friends or neighbors
in a fault-finding spirit before their chil-
dren, or they will tell little “fibs” (as lies
are sometimes called). This is wrong. It
tends to weaken character. Children are
prone to imitate their parents. Their
mind are delicate and ex[-]eedingly impres-
sionable. Rather than cultivate a fault
finding disposition we should look for the
good in everything—in everybody, because
there is some good everywhere. We should
teach the little ones by example and pre-
cept to look upon the bright side of life;
they soon enough learn the bitterness there-
of; and if, while they are young, the seeds
of good, firm characters are planted, the
fruits thereof, in old age, will be glorious.
	If, then, we be careful to build with pure,
upright deeds, the structure will be a per-
fect one, in which the spirit of the Lord
will delight to dwell; but as “one leak will
sink a ship or one flaw will break a chain,”
so one d[--]honorabie or unwomanly act will
forever leave its impress upon the charac-
ter. A blow to character in youth or oid
age cau never be wholly effaced. God may
forgive a sin, but the character never for-
gets it.
	Faithfulness is an important stone to the
structure; faithfulness to a duty, to a
friend. Joseph, though a slave in Egypt,
did not forget this truth. Refusing to be
tempted by the wicked wife of Potiphar, he
chose the dungeon rather than dishonor—
he could not betray a sacred trust, guided,
doubtless, by the thought impressed upon
him in youth, that “Men rise higher as
their task is high,” hence he “cho[-]e to
walk high with the sublime dread, rather
than crawl to safety,”
	Solomon says: “Train up a child in the
way it sh uld go, and when he is old he
will not depart from it.”
	A tree may be ever so crooked and yet be
made to go straight if properly cultivated
when young and tender—an old tree can-
not be turned.
	A young mind may be guided and char-
acter developed, while an aged one may not
be influenced.
	Helaman’s army of two thousand young
men defeated in battle a much larger army
of the Lamanites without the loss of a sin-
gle life to them. When, asked how it was
done, the reply was: “Our mothers taught
us while young to pray, and if we did not
doubt, the Lord would deliver us.”
	When his apostles would look for the se-
cret of perfection, Jesus gave them the ex-
ample of a child—a standard of future great-
ness; hence the object of a parent should
be to keep a child—a child, even after it
reaches manhood or womanhood—a child
in all that goes to make perfect character.
	A wealthy merchant at an advanced age
was on his death bed. His mother died
when he was eight years of age. Half con-
scious he started in bed and said: “I
thought I hea[-]d the voice of my angel
mother.” He spent hours telling of her
personal graces, lovely smiles and gentle ac-

[Column 3]
tions. So riveted were they upon his young
mind before her death, that a lifetime of
business turmoil, excitement and dissipa-
tion could not blot the childish memory
out.
	Hence youth is the springtime of charac-
ter, and the seeds sown then will put forth
fruits for good or evil.
	Mothers, teach daughters the secrets aud
sacredness of maternity. No girl should
be ignorant of the emotions and changes
peculiar to girlhood. She should be taught
to keep the fountain of life pure. Her pur-
ity and modesty should be to her what the
power of the spirit was to Nephi—a con-
suming fire to those who would stain her
innocent life; and boys should be likewise.
But the lesson is for youh. Fail at this
time, and the parents become, in a measure,
responsible for the later recklessness and
carelessness of the child.
	“Honest courage,” said a great writer,
“is of greater worth than any amount of
grace; purity is better than elegance, and
cleanliness of body, mind and heart than
any amount of fine art.
	W[-]ile the cultivation of the graces and
fine arts are not to be neglected, it should
never be forgotten that there is something
far higher and [---]ler to be aimed at, great-
er than pleasure, greater than art, greater
than wealth, greater than power, greater
than intellect, greater than genius—and
that is, purity aud excellence of character.
	Wit[-]out a solid, sterling basis of indi-
vidual goodness, all the grace, elegance and
art in the world would fail to save or elevate
a people.
	Seek, then for character, trusting in time
and justice to establish for you a perfect
reputation. Let your capital in life be
character—hew close to that conviction—
defend it with life, and your final crowning
will be marvelous and perfect.”


UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.
	The Utah Woman’s Press Club held its
annual meeting at the home of Mrs. Maria
Francis on the 29th of October, 1904.
	After the reading and approval of the
minutes of the last meeting, officers were
elected for the next year, which resulted in
the appointment of Mrs. Maria Francis,
President; Miss Stella Neff, Vice-Presdent;
Mrs. Lilian Maeser, Second Vice-President;
Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox, Secretary; Mrs.
Isabel M. W. Sears, Cor. Secretary; Mrs.
Hattie B. Harker, Treasurer.
	Many of the members were in fancy dress
and entertained the club with a few min-
utes talk relative to the characters they
represented. Those particularly interest-
ing were Helen of Troy by Mrs. Lilian
Maeser; Penelope, by Miss Stella Neff; the
Empress Eugenie, by Mary F. Kelly; a Pu-
ritan Mother, by Mrs. Maria Francis. Pres-
ident Lucy A. Clark, Postmistress. Miss
Olea Shipp’s rendering of Spring was
much appreciated, as also the rendition en-
titled “Orphan Annie,” by Miss Ellis Shipp
and Miss Youngberg. Dr. Ellis Shipp pre-
sented the retiring President, Mrs. L. A.
Clarke, with the Daughters of theRevolution
in two volumes, in the name of the club.
Regrets were expressed at the unavoidable
absence of Mrs. E. B. Wells, who has always
been the main support of the club. Re-
freshments were served, and there was a
unanimous expression of satisfaction and en-
joyment.						M F.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year $1.00 one copy six months
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1904


RELIEF SOCIETY NOTICE
	The Stake Secretaries of the Relief Society
in the several stakes of Zion, also in mis-
sions and in branches of the Society not in-
c[-]uded in [-]takes or missions, are hereby
notified to prepare compute annual reports,
statistical and financial, dating from January
1, 1904, to December 31, 1904, and forward
the same to the General Secretary, Tem-
pleton Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, not
later than the middle of February, 1905.
	Wherever the Relief Society owns build-
ings, halls or granaries, it is desirable that
information should be made a separate item,
and how many in the stake, and in what
wards located; also any other important
facts that would be of interest to the gener-
al officers.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
				General Secretary.


[Column 1]
PEACE DEMONSTRATION.
	A Peace meeting was held in Barratt
Hall, Salt Lake City, Wednesday, October
5, 1904, at 8 p. m. Advertising hau been
done through the papers and many personal
nvitations given. The chairmen and mem-
bers of the committee both of the N. W. R.
S. and Y. L. M I. A. were very busy for
sometime beforehand holding meetings and
making plans for this public meeting. It
was the week of the International Peace
Congress which was b[-]ing held in Boston,
Massachusetts.
	Personal letters were addressed to minis-
ters of various denominations asking them
to preach sermons or give addresses on
Peace and Arbitration on Sunday, October
2, or at some other conven[-]ent time. This
request met with general approval and
most of the ministers took up the subject,
thus the peace sentiment was pretty well
ventilated beforehand.
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards of Peace com-
mittee from the N. W. R. S and Mrs.
Ruth M. Fox of Peace c[-]mmittee from Y.
L. M. I. A. with coworkers prtpared and
sent out circulars of instructions to the
Presidents and Superintendents of Associa-
tions in all the Stakes, counties, etc., and
set the ball rolling.
	Barratt Hall was appropriately decorated
with flowers and the peace colors and three
handsome peace flags as also the stars and
stripes adorned the large and commodious
platform, members of committee and speak-
ers wore peace colors in ribbon badges.

[Column 2]
	His Excellency Governor Heber M. Wells
presided at the meeting. The speakers and
other distinguished visitors with the com-
mittee occupied seats on the platform.
	Reverend W. H. Fish opened the meet-
ing with prayer and the famous quartette
Messrs, Spencer, Pyper, Whitney and
Patrick rendered gloriously, “A Flag with
out a Stain.” Mr. Walter Wallace in his
wondrous baritone voice sang “The Wand-
erer.” Governor Wells in his most inimitable
style made an opening address, expressing
his interest in the cause and his apprecia-
tion of the efforts being made to secure
settlements of difficulties between nations
by a court of Arbitration, and introduced
in a pleasing manner Major Richard W
Young grandson of the Hon Brigham
Young as the first speaker cf the evening,
saying that though he was a man of war
having been a cadet from West Point served
his country well in the Philipines, and so
forth yet he was nevertheless parodoxical
as it might seem emphatically in favor of
peace. Major Young’s address has been
published in full in the Deseret Evening
News. This fine address was a master-
ly effort throughout and enthusiastically
received and heartily applauded.
	A song by Miss Agatha Berkhoel was
beauti[-]ully rendered her voice reaching
very high notes clear and melodiously. At
the conclusion of Major Young’s address
Mrs. E. B Wells read the Peace Resolutions
and Gov. Wells called for the vote which
was unanimous.
	The audience was honored by the pre-
sence of the Hon C. V. Gerretsen of Am-
sterdam, Holland, who had been a delegate
from Holland to the Interparliamentary
Peace Congress in St. Louis held there in
September. The gentlemen made a most
unique address giving a history of the In-
terparliamentary Peace Union League, the
nature of its Congresses and what had been
done through the organization towards se-
curing certain measures for the cause.
	It will be remembered by our readers
that it was the delegation from this Con-
gress that presented to President Roosevelt
the Resolutions passed by them in St. Louis
and which were so favorably received by
the Chief Executive and almost immediately
acted upon.
	Mr. Gerretsen gave the audience an en-
tirely different version of the Interparlia-
mentary Union to what had been previously
thought, the manner of taking up these inter-
national differences, and gave us new light
on the subject.
	Mrs. C. F. Wilcox read in a very effect-
ive manner Rudgard Kipling’s Recess-
ional” poem.
	The Reverend Mr. Fish who occupies the
pulpit in the Unitarian Church was the
last speaker of the evening and in a very
eloquent address gave many astonishing
facts, most effectively embellishing his par-
agraphs with bri[-]liant oratory; though the
hour was growing late yet the audience
listened with rapt attention to every word,
as he told them of his own knowledge of
the ravages of war in countries he had
visited
	The meeting adjourned sine die. The
ladies of the committee feel greatly encour-
aged in the work and honored by these dis-
tinguished gentleman so graciously accept-
ing invitations to speak at this Woman’s
Peace meeting, also for the response made
to the request sent out for meetings to be
held throughout Utah and adjoining states

[Column 3]
and territories. It is very evident that the
peace sentiment is spreading and many
people are seeing the advantages of settling
grave questions affecting peoples and nations
by means of a court of arbitration, such as
is now being considered by some of the
ablest men of affairs in the civilized world.
	Meanwhile women in an organized capa-
city are bringing to bear their utmost in-
fluence in favor of this higher ideal of true
civilization, instead of encouraging war and
bloodshed, and assuredly with the combin-
ed influence of the best elements of society
waging a moral and spiritual warfare
against taking up arms, and fighting for
commercial interests, or “right of way”
that can be better obtained by pacific
measures there will soon be a cleaner and
purer and more loving methed of meeting
one’s country’s foes than shooting on sight
and showing no mercy.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We hope our readers will excuse our not
publishing in this issue of the paper the min-
utes of the General Relief Society Confer-
ence held in October last, but we will cer-
tainly include it in the December number.
	The meeting of the Daughters of the Pi-
oneers was held on October 24th, in the
Bee Hive house, the president, Sister Alice
Merrill Horne, presiding. Hymn “Guide
us. O thou Great Jehovah,” was sung.
“Wanderings in the Wilderness,” by Leo-
nora Taylor Harrington, brought vivid pic-
tures before the mind. “Reminiscences of
Nauvoo,” by Sister Christiana D. Pyper,
who when a little girl knew Joseph Smith
the Prophet. “Reminiscences from Nauvoo
to Winter Quarters,” by Rachel E. Woolley
Simmons, was a very well written and en-
tertaing paper, giving the early life in the
Church of Bishop Edwin D. and Mary
Woolley, their association with the Prophet
Joseph Smith, and their travels westward.
	A handsome book suitable for a center
table has just been issued from the press,
very suitable and just in time for the Christ-
mas season. The author is very well
known to our readers and to all Latter-day
Saints, through her numerous poems and
other writings for more than thirty years.
L. L. Gr[-]ene Richards has a happy faculty
of writing children’s short stories and
verses. The book has a children’s depart-
ment. The feature of the book most like-
ly to catch the eye of the Latter day Saint
is the Book of Mormon poems. It is a new
depaiture and opens up an untrodden field
for the pen of the poet. The title of the
book is in itself suggestive, “Branches
That Hang Over the Wall,” and the artis-
tic design for the cover by her son who
lately returned from Paris, very appropri-
ately illustrates the subject. Price, $1.50.
	The regular monthly meeting of the
Daughters of the Revolution was held on
Monday, October 17, 1904, at the residence
of Judge and Mrs. W. H. King, Military
Ave, in this city. The parlors were beau-
tifully decorated with autumn flowers, and
the club colors with the Stars and Stripes.
The day was a stormy one but the meeting
was fairly well attended, and Mrs. King
makes a charming hostess. Regent Mrs
Phebe Young Beatie presided, and after
opening prayer, reading of minutes and mis-
cellaneous business, Mrs. Mary A. H. Can-


non gave the paper of the day; subject,
Mrs. John Quincy Adams, many interest-
ing facts in the life of this brilliant, self-
sacrificing wife and mother were brought
out clearly and given in graphic style.
Mrs. Emily H. Cannon gave an interesting
story, and as Mrs. Carol Y. Cannon was not
prepared with a song, Mrs. Lucy W. Smith,
by special request, gave some incidents of
her recent delightful trip East and to the
Fair at St. Louis. After adjournment re-
freshments were served in dainty style, and
the guests enjoyed an hour’s chat with each
other and the hostess in her delightful
home.
	The November meeting of the Daugh-
ters of Utah Pioneers was held on Wednes-
day, November 9, 1904, in the elegant par-
lors of the Bee Hive House, the President,
Mrs. Alice M. Horne, present, although
Counselor, Mrs. C. F. Wilcox, presided.
After the exercises of singing and prayer
Mrs. Annie Taylor Hyde read the hymn,
“O, say what is truth,” and Mrs. Lucy
Pratt Russell read her paper on Brother
and Sister Snively of Pennsylvania, her
grandparents, how they received the Gos-
pel, and gathered with the Saints in Nau-
voo; the marriage of their daughters Han-
nahette to Apostle Parley P. Pratt, and
Susan to President Brigham Young; she
emphasized their devotion to the Gospel
and the principles of celestial marriage.
Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne read the paper
prepared by Mrs. Julina L. Smith on Winter
Quarters, Mrs. Smith being unavoidably ab-
sent on account of sickness in the family.
The paper was full of interest as it con-
tained so many practical facts in regard to
conditions existing at that time of scarcity
and trial, and brought back to the pioneer
women present many pathetic and thrilling
scenes through which the Saints passed
during that critical period. Many com-
ments were made after the reading, the one
however ot special value was by Mrs.
Elizabeth Nebeker, a pioneer of 1847. A
poem “Reminiscenses,” written for the
Daughters of the Pioneers was read by the
author, Mrs. E. B. Wells. As the other
numbers could not be given a little time
was taken by Mrs Nebeker giving some of
her girlhood experiences, her first meeting
with the Prophet Joseph Smith in the State
of Pennsylvania when she was nine years
old, and subsequent events.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AN OLD LETTER.
TO THE PRESIDENCY, AND LADIES OF THE
[FEMALE] RELIEF SOCIETY OF NAUVOO.
	Beloved sisters and friends—As I shall
necessarily be absent from your pleasant
society, for a season, my husband not hav-
ing succeeded in business in Nauvoo as he
anticipated, I could not take my leave
without soliciting your kind wishes and
prayers for the time being, that we find it
necessary to locate ourselves elsewhere,
until a more favorable door is opened, for
our residence with the church.
	I wish also to acknowledge my grateful
sense, of the great kindness, and good feel-
ings, which has been manifested toward
me, during my visit amongst you; and in
return you have my sincere prayers, that
the best of heaven’s blessings may rest
upon you: and may the cause of humanity,
benevolence, and mercy, flourish in your
midst, under the benign auspices of an ap-


proving heaven, and the smiles of the Holy
one of Israel. And may the heart of the
widow, the fatherless, the poor, and the
destitute, for whose benefit the society was
organized, be made to rejoice through the
means of your benevolent exertions. And
feel assured, that wnile this is made the
grand rallying point, for the active energies
of your minds, no power, however desirous
it may be to vilify, and call in question your
good name, will be able to tarnish the lustre
of your good deeds, or pluck from your
standard, the laurels which will be woven
by the hand of gratitude as a shining
trophy to your name, to all eternity.
	With respect and affection, I am yours
in the bonds of the gospel.
April, 1843.
SARAH M. CLEVELAND.


MOTHERS' WORK.
BENSON STAKE.
Lecture 1.
	The Inmates of the Home.
	a. Family Organization. b. The father:
his authority position and rights. c. The
mother: her position and rights. d. The
children: their position and rights.
Lecture 2.
	a. Obedience and its effects. b. Dis-
obedience and its effects.
Lecture 3.
	a. Prayer. Its power and efficacy. b.
Appropriate prayers.
Lecture 4.
	a. Forgiveness: Charity for each others’
imperfections, b. Faults; by good or evil
intent.
Lecture 5.
	a. Influence of the passions with regard
to health and hnppiness. b. Love, hate,
envy.
Lecture 6.
	a. Self-denial, self-control. b. Faith,
Hope. c. Grief, despair. d. Cheerfulness
and Kindness.
	REBECCA L. RAWLINS, Prest., AROETTA
POND, MAUD ROSKELLY, Counselors.
	HANNAH LARSON, MAGGIE MERRILL,
SARAH A. HYER, MARIA SWINEYARD,
Committee.
	RHODA M. HENDRICKS, Secretary.


PARTING.
Oh, the bitter pangs of parting,
Come upon us unaware
Every bud or flower that blossoms,
The taste of death must sometime share.

Yet such times do bring forth sorrow.
Every hea[-]t sends forth a sigh:
For God has called fr[-]m us a loved one,
The reason now we know not why.

One just reached the flower of manhood,
Stricken down while yet in youth.
Called to join our friends departed,
Called while in the path of truth.

Gone front those who loved him dearly;
Every soul breathed up a prayer,
Yet he has gone fro[-] those he cherished;
Ah! can reason cease to stare?


Was there not amid the millions
One whose life was not so dear?
Could hey not have found another,
Left this well-belov’d one here?

Ah! frail men so often err
In their judgments premature;
Every act contains a blessing,
Though at first it seems obscure.

Was there net for every mortal
Written death upon the scroll?
Death of body; not of spirit;
Ay! there is no death of soul.

Search the records and traditions,
Search the present and the past;
Science, logic, reason, wisdom,
Says this life is not the last.

Near God’s throne are lines of angels,
One would make their ranks complete;
So they came and took our brother,
There to live a life most sweet.

Is it safe to doubt the wisdom?
Can we always judge aright?
Be consoled, subm[-]t, don’t murmur,
Look above, and ask for light.

Life is but a fading shadow
Passing swiftly year by year;
Then we’ll meet the one departed
In that high and holy sphere.

Grieve no more, and let not sorrow
Mar the soul you have to save,
There will be a joyous meeting,
For there’s life beyond the grave.
MARK BROWN.


SKETCH OF SISTER DURRANT.
	Sketch and Resolutions of Respect to the
memory of Sister Jemima H. B Durrant,
who departed this life August 20, 1904, at
her home in American Fork, Utah. She
was born at Deans' Hanger, England,
August 2, 1836, embraced the gospel when
eleven years old, and emigrated to Utah in
1862. She has been a faithful member of
the church from that time until her death.
	Sister Durrant was an active member and
officer of the Relief Society from the time
it was organized in American Fork. She
was also a member of the choir, a teacher
in the Sabbath School, and was President
of the Young Ladies’ Association for more
than twenty years. In all these organiza-
tions she was faithful and efficient, always
at her post of duty, and was well loved and
respected by all.
	She was a woman of great faith and in-
tegrity to the gospel. Her testimony was
always bright; her faith was unwavering;
she was not ashamed to defend the princi-
ples of her religion Her life was worthy
of emulation for she was always active in
the service of the Lord.
	She was true to every principle of the
gospel, including that ot Celestial Marriage,
and though not blest with children of her
own, she was ever willing to take part in
the care of her husband’s family.
	She died, as she had lived, firm in the
faith, and with a sure hope of a glorious
resurrection.

		RESOLUTIONS.
	Therefore, be it resolved, that we the officers of
the Relief Society do sincerely sympathize with
the bereaved family, and we mourn for one, who
was in every respect worthy of our love and
esteem
	Resolved, that in her death we recognize the
loss of a tme Saint and a faithful worker, and ex-
press our hopes that though she has left us for a
short time, yet it is well with her. For she
has fought the good fight and has kept the faith,
and there is a crown of righteousness awaitimr her
in the Kingdom of God.


She’s gone, but to a rest so sweet
To all the faithful given,
O may we earn through earthly life,
The same sweet bliss in Heaven.

May her devoted life on earth
Of patience, hope and love,
Aid us to gain that prize of worth,
From Him who rules above.

	Resolved, that these resolutions be placed upon
the records ot the American Fork First Ward Re-
lief Society, and that they be published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and a copy be given to the
bereaved family.
EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
ELIZABETH DURRANT,
ELIZABETH MCCARTY.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SKETCH OF RUTH HAYWARD.
	We have met together upon this sad occasion to
show our love and reverence to [-]ur beloved sister
who has just responded to the call which sooner
or later must come to all of us, but while our
hearts are sad because of the long separation
which must follow her departure, we rejoice in the
thought of the glorious reception she will meet on
the other side, for verily she hath earned t[-]e wel-
come plaudit, “Well done thou good and faithful
servant, enter thou into the joy of thy Lord.”
	Sister Ruth Hayward was born on the 1st day
of May, 1814, in Kent, England, and was there-
fore, ninety years, five months and thirteen days
old. she was married at the age of twenty-four to
William Hayward, in Woolwich, England and
proved a most tender and affectionate companion,
their devotion to each other being a beautiful
characteristic of their lives.
	She became converted to the Gospel and joined
the Church in 1849, and emigrated to Utah in
1853, arriving in Salt Lake City just fifty-one
years ago today. After residing t[-]ere for a period
of eleven years, she removed to Richfield where
she has since dwelt [-]ontinuously, save for two
years during the Indian troubles when she return-
ed to the north,
	Sister Hayward has been an indefatigable work-
er in the cause of thə Master, laboring in all of
the associations as an officer and member, with
great zeal and energy. Her whole heart went out
in tender sympathy to the sick and sorrowing, and
her faith was so great, miraculous healings have
often been the result.
	Her great charity for the erring has led them
back to a higher life, and a belief in the goodness
and love of a merciful Savior.
	The Latter-day Saints of Richfield can never
forget sister Hayward. One of the first pioneers,
she has been identified with every move made for
the advancement and upbuilding of the city and
community, and through all her labors the sublim-
ty of her faith has shone forth as a beacon-light
to her associates The strong testimonies she has
borne in the assemblies of the Saints has been an
inspiration to them, and we know that t[-]e closing
of the life is but the beginning of another which
shall be even more glorious and eternal.
RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas, Our highly esteemed sister, at the
close of a long and beautiful life, has been called
to her heave[-]ly [-]ome, we, her sisters, who know
of her loving deeds, and appreciate her many
noble qualities, desire to express our sympathy for
her bereaved fumily, and to acknowledge her lab-
ors and ministrations of kindness as a member of
the Relief Society, and also as a friend and neigh-
bor in the best sense of the term.
	Therefore be it Resolved; That we do humbly
testify that faith, charity and humility were lead-
ing traits of her character, and that her steadfast
devotion to the work of God is an example which
we should all strive to emulate.
	Resolved, that we tender our heartfelt sympathy
to the bereaved family and bid them look up, and
trust in God.
	Resolved, that these resolutions be recorded in
our minute book, an[-] also presen[-]ed to the family
and published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
	Dated this 16th day of October’ 1904.
AG[--]S B. THURBER,
Pres. Richfield Ward, R. S.
MINNIE A. NEBEKER,
HENRIETTA [-]RIGHT.
Counselors.
CELIA E. BE[-]N,
Secretary.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of Special Conference of Relief
Society of the Bear Lake Stake, held in
Montpelier meeting house on 10th and 11th
of September, 1904. President J. P Lindsay
presiding. The general meetings commenc-
ed at 2 p. m. of each day. Officers meeting
convened at 10 a. m., Sunday morning at
the residence of Bishop Clark. Sisters
Mary A. C. Lambert and Hattie B. Harker
were the visiting sisters of Salt Lake City.
	A very aged Sister by the name of Wil-
cox spoke to us ot our beloved Prophet
Joseph and quoted many things she had
heard him speak. Sister Richards of the
Fielding Academy spoke grandly on the
gospel, education, and on Mother’s Work.
	From our visiting Sisters, we received
valuable instruction, the principal topics be-
ing Mothers’ Work and gathering of grain
and taking good care of the same. President
William Rich and Bishop Clark spoke
words of encouragement to us. The Spirit
of the Lord was richly manifested during
Conference and we all had a very enjoyable
time.
	Your Sister in the Gospel of Peace,
						LOUISE TULLER,
							Cor. Secretary.

		JUAB STAKE
	The Relief Society of the Juab Stake of
Zion held its conference in Nephi, August
27, 1904, in the Tabernacle in that eity.
President L. Addie Cazier presiding. Sisters
Clarissa Smith Williams and Alice Merrill
Horne of the Gen ral Board were present
from Salt Lake City to attend the confer-
ence
	After the usual opening exercises of sing-
ing, prayer, roll call and minutes, Sister
Alice Merrill Horne addressed the sisters. 
Sister Horne told of her travels on the
continent of Europe, and spoke of the many
beautiful things she had seen; she felt it an
honor to attend the International Council
and Conference of Women and to represent 
the women of Zion. Referred to the great
responsibility resting upon the women of
today, and said many pleasing things con-
cerning her journeyings abroad. Sister
Horne concluded her speech with a strong
testimony to the truthfulness of the Gospel,
and urged all to be faithful and active to
work out their own salvation.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams,General Treas-
urer of the Relief Society, spoke of the
training of our children and the beautifying
of our homes—said our home should be the
dearest spot on earth, and told of ways and
means of making it so. Sister Williams
paid a glowing tribute to the Juab Stake
President for having a representative from
every ward in the stake at the conference,
also for having so many of the young peo-
ple in the society; she gave some valuable
instruction to officers and to all present.
	In the evening the officers gave a banquet
at the home of Mrs Alfred Lunt in honor
of the visiting sisters. Much credit is due
the sisters for the complete arrangements
which resulted in the pronounced success
of the evening’s entertainment 
				S. CHAPPEL, Sec’y.

		EMERY STAKE.
The Relief Society conference of the
Emery stake was held on Friday, October
28, in Orangeville meeting house, President
[Column 2]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             
Mary A. Sorenson presiding. Her counse-
lors, Maria Guymon and Mary J. King, also
Secretary and Treasurer Maria Allen were
present. There was a good attendance
of the sisters from the several wards, nine
wards being represented.
	Excellent reports of the work being done
were given by the respective presidents or
representatives of the Price, Huntington,
Castledale, Orangeville, Ferron, Molen
and Emery branches.
	Visitors present were Sister Barton of
Salt Lake City, Patriarch Johnson of Hunt-
ington and Patriarch F. W. Young, Bishop
Robertson and Elder Frank Killian of
Orangeville.
	Short addresses were given by the Relief
Society stake officers, the visiting sister
and each of the brethren during the con-
ference on duties pertaining to Relief Soci-
ety work aud testimonies were borne to the
truth of the Gospel.
	Lectures were ably given by Ruth Mc-
Kee of Huntington, on “Home Influence,”
and by Maria Fitt, of Orangeville, on
“Parenthood.”
	The musical selections were excellent. A
vocal duet was rendered by Sisters Maggie
and Ranie Jewkes, of Orangeville, a quart-
ette by four sisters of the Huntington Re-
lief Society; and a vocal solo by Sister Kil-
lian of Orangeville, all of which were very
enjoyable. Two recitations were given,
one by Sister Davis, of Clawson, and one
by Sister Emma Elder, of Ferron both
were excellent.
	Stake Relief Society financial report was
read and unanimously accepted. Maria
Allen, of Castledale was presented and
unanimously sustained as secretary and
treasurer. The day was very pleasant and
the conference spiritual and interesting.
The sisters from other wards all enjoyed
the hospitality of the Orangeville sisters
during the noon recess.
MARIA ALLEN, Sec.
		WEBER STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the We-
ber Stake of Zion was held in Ogden, in the
Stake Relief Society Hall, on Thursday;
September 8, commencing at 10 a.m.,
President Jane S. Richards presiding. On
the stand were Counselor C. F. Middleton,
of the Stake Presidency and Bishop Robert
McQuarrie. Meeting opened with singing,
“Let us pray,” etc. Prayer was offered by
Elder Rudd. Singing, “Come, come, ye
Saints.” Minutes of morning session of
June conference read and approved.
	After reports were given by some of the
presidents of wards, President Jane S. Rich-
ards said she was very pleased ro see so
many present and to hear the reports by the
sisters that they enjoyad their labors in this
work, in visiting the sick and needy, and
that none were forgotten. She said, re-
member the instruction the Prophet Joseph
gave to the sisters about visiting the sick
he told them it was their duty, and let us
never tire of doing good to those in need.
	President C. F. Middleton said he always
enjoyed the Relief Society meetings and
the instructions given, they were good all
the time. Thought how good it was for
Sister Richards to see new faces at the
meetings, said if we are weary and tired
with our daily labors, if we would go to
meeting, we would rest our mind and our
body by the change of thought, and get
something to help us to renew our daily
lives. He prayed God to bless us. Amen.
	Counselor Hattie Brown said she was


very much interested in the instructions that
had been given this morning, felt we had a
good band of workers in the Relief Society,
said we had much to do to prepare for the
future; we should be ready, for we never
know when the call will come. She asked
for the Lord’s good spirit, and thought we
should feel whatever comes it is His will.
She desired to be worthy, and to do her
duty with the blessing of the Lord.
	A young girl from Preston spoke of a
wonderful manifestation four years ago of
the power of God, in her behalf. She had
expected to be operated upon, but was an-
ointed by Sister Zina Young. Sisters Jane
Richards and Emily Richards and Sister
Card: the next morning she was able to
rise and dress, according to the promise
conferred upon her by Sister Zina Young
through the Holy Spirit.
	Sister Shupe reported Eden Ward sisters
as doing their duty and all going on well.
Sister from Liberty said their ward was
small, they were few in numbers, seven to
nine was the largest attendance, but the
sisters were good and willing to do all in
their power for each other and the society.
	Sister Eliza Tracy of Huntsville said she
had sickness in her family and had not
been able to attend meetings, felt she was
the loser she always enjoyed the meetings
reported all were doing well in their society.
Sister Faulkner, Plain City, thought the
sisters were doing their duty and had the
good spirit with them. Sister Stewart, of
Warren, said they enjoyed their religion
and the spirit of the Lord. Sister Ayres,
Harrisville, made a good report—all well
and doing the best they could. Sister
Thomas of Lynn, said she always felt hap-
py when she came to meeting; reported all
well with the Society. Sister M.J. Maycock,
Pleasant View, said all were in good work-
ing order, trying to serve the Lord.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m. with
singing ‘‘O my Father.” Benediction by
Elder Franklin S. Richards.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
At the close of the morning session all
were invited to partake of a banquet served
in the spacious dining hall below, the tables
were arranged in the form of the letter “T”
and would seat about one hundred and fifty
at a time. Stake Counselor C. F. Mid-
bleton asked the blessing, and the guests
were feasted to their heart’s content, the
tables were filled again and again. The good
sisters of Weber stake are to be congratu-
lated on this sumptuous repast, to which
all present at the conference were made wel-
come.

	Afternoon session—President Jane S.
Richards presiding. Meeting opened with
singing, “A poor wayfaring man of grief,”
etc. Prayer offered by Bishop Robert Mc-
Quarrie; singing, “Farewell all earthly
honors.”
	President Adeline Belnap of Hooper
reported her ward—they had some sickness,
but felt blest in having good sisters willing
to help with faith and works; bore a good
testimony of the Prophet Joseph, whom
she knew as a child, and until his martyr-
dom. President Frances Dance. West We-
ber. said they had some diligent workers,
and felt they had the blessing of the Lord
with them all the time Sister Hunter had
a band of sisters strong in the faith, to do
good, it mattered not where or when. Sister
Mary Casey, Slaterville, said they had sold

[Column 2]
their wheat and were buying new to store
up—reported all well.
	Secretary Sister Driver read the minutes
of the conference held June 10, which were
approved as read.
	Sister E. B. Wells said she was proud of
the work of the Relief Society, and of the
Weber Stake House, especially. It was
the only stake house built and owned by
the sisters She felt a good work had been
done by their president, Sister Jane S.
Richards, she knew her perseverance in
building the hall, felt it was a monument
to her; was delighted with the spirit of the
conference and with what had been accom-
plished through the determined efforts of
the sisters, who had been willing to give of
their time and means  It was certainly a
credit to the Relief Society everywhere that
there was one such place, and she hoped
there would yet be many more. Sister
Wells gave some historic data of the Soci-
ety and made other remarks, urged the
young sisters to visit the aged and sick and
comfort them, it was refreshing to see their
bright young faces; do some little thing, if
it is only to take them a flower; referred
to the visits she had made in Ogden with
Sister Eliza R Snow and Aunt Zina Young,
also our President Bathsheba W. Smith,
and how much she had enjoyed coming,
and how gratifying it was to have Sister
Jane S, Richards still actively carrying on
the work given her to do by appointment
of President Brigham Young.
	Sister Emily S. Richards always felt at
home in Ogden She had just returned
from a long trip to Germany and other
countries, had met many great women,
thought they were trying to do good and
help the world The places she had visited
and the scenery among which she had trav-
eled were more wonderful than she could
describe; had visited in our missions and
spoken to the sisters and tried to encourage
them in their labors; referred to the mis-
sionaries. what good they are doing in car-
rying the Gospel to the honest in heart.
	Elder Franklin S. Richards said he felt
himself adopted into the Society in Ogden,
for he had spent some of his happiest days
here. When he looked back to those times,
there was a warm place in his heart for
those he remembered, and was always glad
to be in these meetings, and among these
faithful ones. Said this was a selfish age,
and everybody was thinking how can I help
myself. But the noble women in the Relief
Society were only seeking to help somebody
else, and always in the line of their duty.
It was organized by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and through the Spirit of the Lord,
that woman might be elevated and become
a true helpmate to man. He prayed the
Lord to bless all those associated in this
work, they had a warm place in his heart;
was glad to meet with old friends, brethren
and sisters.
	Sister Lee, Far West, reported a good
band of sisters living up to their duties, tak-
ing care of the sick, and felt well and en-
joyed the Spirit of the Lord.
Counselor Hattie Brown again bore her
testimony and spoke encouragingly to the
sisters of the work they had done.
Bishop McQuarrie felt he must be obed-
ient to President Richards, and had enjoyed
the remarks of the sisters, all of them, and
the visitors from Salt Lake. He counseled
the Saints to listen to the still, small voice,
and thus keep in the right path. Blessed
Sister Richards and all assembled.

[Column 3]
	Sister Martha Critchlow, the First ward
Ogden City, bore a faithful testimony to
the truth of the work.
	Sister Moon, Mound Fort, reported—
made a good report of the work and bore
testimony.
	Elder Stone, an aged brother, who had
been blind many years, bore a strong tes-
timony; said he enjoyed these meetings.
Sister Stone also bore her testimony.
	Sister Scowcroft also spoke a few words of
appreciation of the blessings of the Gospel.
	President Jane S. Richards spoke very af-
fectionately to the sisters. Was sorry there
was not time for everyone to speak, but
there never seemed time enough. She loved
to hear from those who had been so diligent
and faithful in good works; felt to bless all,
whether they had spoken or not.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing, “O my Father.” Prayer by
President C. F Middleton.
	C. E. DRIVER, Secretary.

	ALPINE STAKE.
	The regular quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of Alpine Stake was held at
Lehi, Friday, October 21, 1904, President
Rebecca Standring presiding
	Meeting opened at ten a. m. with singing.
Prayer by Brother William Southwick.
Singing, etc.
	President Standring made a few opening
remarks, after which seven of the presidents
reported their wards. The reports were
good in every respect, except the attend-
ance, which is sometimes rather slim. They
have a good spirit in their meetings, the
teachers are doing their duty, the poor are
helped and the sick visited. The sisters are
laying up wheat and helping to build meet-
ing houses and granaries and are united in
their work.
	Stake Counselor Annie C. Hindley ad-
dressed the meeting. Hoped the sisters
were not grpwing weary in well doing. In
looking at the abundant crops which the
Lord has sent to His people this year, had
we not ought to give thanks and gratitude
to His holy name by doing all we can for
the furtherance of His great work. Knew
that some of the sisters had more work al-
most than they could do, and had nearly
given up their spiritual meetings. Let us
not neglect our testimony meetings, but let
us lay our work aside as often as we can,
and attend our meetings, for our testimony
will never increase if we neglect to assem-
ble ourselves together in testimony meet-
ings.
	Sister Martha Featherstone felt the re-
sponsibility of the calling that had been
placed upon her—to be a missionary in the
Relief Society of this stake of Zion. Had
passed many happy hours with the sisters
in their meetings in this house. Desired
to be associated always with the Latter-
day Saints. The Lord does acknowledge
His people, and the spiritual gifts will never
be taken away from them, for many have
had their prayers answered through these
gifts.
	Conference adjourned until two o’clock.
Singing. Benediction by Stake Counselor
Harriet Jacobs.

	Meeting opened at two o’clock with the
usual exercises.
	President Rebecca Standring prayed the
inspiration of the Holy Spirit might rest
upon those who speak this afternoon. We
do not realize the importance of the
meetings which are to instruct and build us


up. Spoke of our late General Conference
and the instructions given. We must not
neglect our testimony meetings for other
duties. Spoke of the Memorial Building
and urged the sisters to contribute a little
to this object. Spoke of the lack of inter-
est taken by the sisters in attending meet-
ings and bearing testimony. Those that
loved the Lord met often together and a
book of remembrance was kept. Five of
the ward presidents gave their reports.
	President James H. Clark was the next
speaker. Felt that these sisters had much
to be proud of and much to be thankful
for in these organizations. Referred to the
nickle fund spoken of by one of the sisters,
who stated that they had gathered $215 00
in one year by this means, had paid for an
organ and are gathering for a sacrament
service by donating a nickle per week,
showing how much can be done by small
means  We have no reason to wish for the
honors of men, but for the approbation of
God, was reminded of the article written by
President Joseph F. Smith on success.
Those who served God to the best of their
ability were the ones who would be suc-
cessful. Mothers who are laboring day by
day to raise their children may sometimes
feel discouraged, yet they would be success-
ful in the end. This is only one little span
of our existence, and if we do not gather
the harvest now, there will be another time
when we may obtain our reward. Those
who are raising families are doing a great
work and the sisters who travel around
should encourage it, and make them feel
they are blest of the Lord. Our people are
progressing materially in the world. Presi-
dent Woodruff prophecied that this people
would grow in power and strength and beat
the head and not at the foot. We are seek-
ing to purify our lives and make ourseives
acceptable to the Lord. Our mission is to
redeem men from their fallen condition and
teach them the pure principles, of the Gos-
pel. Spoke of the necessity of being kind
to the stranger in our midst, our mission is
to save them and not cast them off or con-
demn them. Seek to reclaim them and
turn them from the error of their ways.
The sisters can accomplish much in this
direction and bring peace to many hearts
and many homes. Be encouraged and
in due time the Lord will reward you for
what you sow.
	Sister Mary Ann Webb said she had
been fed with the Spirit of God and re-
ceived strength many times when she had
been discouraged and cast down and had
gone home refreshed, blest and rested.
	Bishop Fjield had been edified and blest
in attending this meeting. Spoke of a fam-
ily who had gone to Idaho after receiving a
vision of the country- Every duty has a
blessing behind it.
	Brother William Southwick felt to heart-
ily endorse the reports and remarks today.
Had learned many things in being acquaint-
ed with the workings of the Relief Society.
	Conference adjourned for three mouths.
Singing. Benediction, Sister Ellen D.
Clark.
EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
[--] ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage, We aim to give you as
much as possible for vour money. TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
ings accounts.
The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to five thousand, and compute said
interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No 1 Main Street.

I have always thought that all men
should be free; but if anv should be slaves,
it should be, first, those who desire it for
themselves, and, secondly, those who desire
it for others.—Abraham Lincoln.


[Column 1]
EDWIN D. MEAD’S ADDRESS.

	“It was in the old Tremont Theatre, on
the site where Tremont Temple now
stands, that Elihu Burritt, the inspirer of
the great Peace Congress half a century
ago, gave, in 1841, his first address upon
Universal Peace. It was in Tremont Tem-
ple that Charles Sumner, four years later,
gave his noble oration upon the ‘True
Grandeur of Nations.’ It was in Tremon
Temple that were held in 1899 the princi-
pal American meetings to promote inter-
est in The Hague Conference. The last
half century has emphasized with terrible
force the plea of Burritt for human broth-
erhood and the better organization of the
world. Never did events lay more terrible
emphasis than tot ay upon Sumner’s ar-
raignment of the wicked waste upon great
navies and armies of the resources which
should be applied to constructive purposes
and the education and welfare of the people,
and which so applied would quickly bring
an end to war forever.
	“We do not forget, be sure that none
remember so constantly, that our own re-
public, from which it was indeed your
right not to expect it, has yielded in these
days to the temptations to make herself
also a great naval power, and indulge the
hoary old ambitions of commanding re-
spect by force instead of by ideas and the
neighborly hand. We acknowledge the
justice of your warnings and reproacies.
We do not resent them; we thank you for
them  We thank you for reminding us,
as you have done with such eloquence and
feeling in the last two days, of the princi-
ple of the founders of our republic, and
the high duties of leadership in the path
of peace and order which the republic by
its history and position owes the world.
If in the great temptations of our opu-
lence and power some of us are in danger
of forgetfulness and faithlessness, may
the presence of so many of you here from
nations whose burdens and dangers are so
much greater than ours, and who need the
support of every influence of ours upon the
right side and not the wrong side, help to
call us back to our great national ideals and
our better selves. But remember this. We
no longer differ from you as we did in the
days of Sumner and Burritt and Channing.
Conditions everywhere become alike, and
one nation can no longer keep much ahead
of another. You have a right to ask us to
check the building of a great navy. We
must say to you that the real way to help
us is by such agitation at home as shall
check the increase of your own. We will
hope indeed that some great nation may
have the magnificent abandon to cast her
whole armies into the abyss and trust con-
fidently to the defence of that high act and
attitude; but, while we hope for that, let
us not build upon it, but work patiently to-
gether for disarmament.
	“While we thank you for your warnings,
we thank you also for your generous rec-
ognition of our good deeds and our good
purposes. Our President has recently

[Column 2]
proudly and properly claimed that The
Hague Court was impotent until the gov-
ernment of the United States made it a
reality. It is not a one his word; it is the
warm word also of Baron D'Estournelles
de Contant. Our President has assured
you that he shall take st[-]ps for the calling
of a second Hague Conference, to push on
the work which the first could not fully
achieve. I believe that he will do it. Of
this be sure—that the American people are
waking up. They will declare to-morrow
that all playing with fire of militarism in
this republic must forever cease; that if one
existing party does not stop it, its mandate
will go to another: and that our history
teaches us well how quickly sometimes
great new parties are born and become tri-
umphant.
	“Men tell us war will cease in this world
and out dreams come true ouly with the
millennium. I pity men who have such
poor notions of the millennium. The evils
which we fight are among the grossest and
most barbarous. They befit only the early
and low stages of civilization. Our effort
is but to clean the Augean stables. Horrors
and wickedness such as those going on at
this hour in Asia ought to be so far behind
as not even to be mentioned among civilized
men. Toleration of war in this twentieth
century after Christ is like setting up the
Ten Commandments on the walls of Chris-
tian churches, warning presumedly decent
Christians not to steal or kill or commit
adultery. Put the beatitudes on the walls
of your churches. It is only when we have
done forever with such savage and gross
forms of wrong as war that we shall be in
a position to make a first fair and decent
start for the millennium.
	“One hundred years ago Thomas Jeffer-
son was President of the United States.
Help us in this republic, in this centennial
time, to be true to his truth. The year is
the centennial of the death in Germany of
the great author of ‘Eternal Peace.’ It is
the centennial of the birth in England of
Richard Cobden. The apostolic succession
is never broken, and the apostles are multi-
plying to-day as never before. To-morrow
the vision of Kant and Cobden and Victor
Hugo and Sumner shall be those of every
thoughtful German and Englishman and
Frenchman and American.”
Woman's Journal.


Woman’s Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 33 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER, 1904. No. 6.


CONTENTS.

The New L. D. S. Hospital.........The Editor   41
Musty Leaves, Brown With Age......E. B. W. 42
Christmas Thoughts....................... 44
in Memoriam............................. 44
An Arizona Christmas (A Poem) Agusta Joyce
Crocheron....................... 45
Relief Society Social................... 46
Thanksgiving................Mrs. Candland 46
Relief Society Notice................... 48


[Picture of a four-floor bulding with classic, castle turret design, a late 1800s or early 1900s building]
DR. WM. H. GROVES LATTER-DAY SAINTS' HOSPITAL.


[Column 1]
THE NEW L. D. S. HOSPITAL.

lt is a matter of congratulation and re-
joicing that the L. D. S. Hospital is to be
opened Jan. 1, 1905. The great need there
has been of such an institution by our own
people has been keenly felt in the past and
to have such a magnificient building so
thoroughly equipped in every particular and
in all its departments is a matter of satisfact-
on and of justifiable pride.
To take the best care of the sick and
afflicted is one of the most laudable objects
of any community of people.
The Hospital building is situated on 8th

[Column 2]
St. between C. and D. and in appearance at
a distance reminds one of some of the an-
cient structures in England except that it
is new. It is built of buff brick trimmed
with gray stone. The rooms are all of them
pleasant, and give one the idea of cheer and
comfort. There are four stories above the
basement, the halls are wide and well light-
ed, the floors are of cement and laid with
English linoleum, the entire building is
properly ventilated. The reception room is
quite handsome with marble walls and tile
floors over the cement. There are eighty
rooms not including bath-rooms, closets,
toilets, laundry, etc. Forty-five of these
are private rooms furnished with every
modern luxury and appliance in the way of
convenience automatic tables, call-button
for nurse, telephone so that the patient may
communicate with her friends, and in fact
everything that the sick could need or de-
sire seems to have been provided for.
The dispensary and operating rooms sur-
pass in their style and furnishings anything
the writer has ever seen in the many hospi-
tals she has visited. We hope to give a
more minute description of the building, its
equipment and advantages in the paper

[Column 3]
later on, and now and hereafter seek to en-
courage the people who need hospital treat-
ment and care, to patronize this worthy in-
stitution, and especially should the Wo-
man’s Relief Society of the Church use
their influence in favor of sustaining this
noble enterprise, so long needed and so
much desired by the Latter-day Saints;
hoping that it may be successful financially
and otherwise, and prove a place of relief
for the sick, and wounded whatever the
nature of the malady may be, and in all re-
spects fill the expectation of its founders
and patrons.

THE EDITOR.


Mrs. Wynne, wife of the new postmaster,
general, was married when very young-
and it is said that her first long dress was
her wedding gown.
	Miss Mary Scott, State Superintendent of
Public Instruction in Idaho, is vice-presi-
dent of the Inland Empire Teachers’ Asso-
ciation, and was prominent at the seventh
annual meeting lately held at Pendleton,
Oregon.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MUSTY LEAVES, BROWN WITH AGE.
CHRISTMAS IN AN ENGLISH VILLAGE.
	It was Christmas eve in a small manu-
facturing villiage in England, early in the
nineteenth century, and preparations for
the usual gay festivities were going forward;
young men and women were arranging the
mistletoe and holly in the prosperous homes
of the working people; and in many of the
cottages beer had been brewed by the prud-
ent house-wives who took care “the mas-
ter” should drink his good ale at home in-
stead of joining in a carouse at the village
inn. Everywhere it was plain to be seen
that the yearly Christmas festival was
drawing nigh. The one little church, ivy-
covered outside, was profusely decorated
within, and the choristers, dressed for the
occasion, were wending their way to begin
the sublime choruses.
	Not far from the church, in the most
pretentious house the village could boast,
there was great anxiety, bustle and confu-
sion. The doctor’s gig stood by the gate-
way, and the cottagers looked anxiously
about and around, and inquired of each
other whether there was any word from
Mrs. Windeyer, for the village folks were
all “agate” to hear the news, and each
one wanted to be first to tell “the glad tid-
ings,” if such it should be. “The master,”
as he was called by them all, was a prime
favorite, he had been born among them, as
they often said to each other,and there were
no doubts in their minds as to the doctor’s
prolonged stay at the “Squire’s house.”
	The evening grew late, and still no word
came. Indeed there seemed almost a
hush to brood over the homes of the neigh-
borhood; and the women, especially the
mothers, waited in almost breathless sil-
ence for the wheels of the doctor’s gig.
The doors were shut, for it was bitter cold,
and there was keen, sharp frost in the air;
music from the church rang out on the still
night, clear and full of tender pathos; and
the children, heeding not the cold, could be
seen in groups going up and down, here
and there singing snatches of Christmas
melodies as they threw from door to door
sprays of holly, calling out, “Christmas
box.” Finally all hilarity had ceased, and
quiet was settling down, then the Christ-
mas bells began ringing joyfully, and just
then Nurse Goodman came down the oaken
staircase in her soft slippers, beaming with
pride, though tears were on her cheeks, and
opening the door, of the great dining room
where “the master” sat by the open fire
uneasy and restless, announced ere enter-
ing, “Ye may’n come up now, Maister
Windeyer, as quick as ye like, ye’ve a fine
son born to the tune o’ the Xmas bells,
and he’l be mighty lucky, I’m sure, for he
roared as we could na hear the bells ring.”
	Many a good woman peeped out inquir-
ingly from behind her bedroom curtains as
the doctor’s gig rattled over the frozen
ground on his homeward way long after mid--
night; but the first gray dawn of morning
found the village very wide awake, and
the news that an heir was born to “Maister
Windeyer” on Christmas eve, just as the
bells’ were ringing, flew from house to
house like wildfire; and such a Christmas
they all declared there had never been since
the old “Maister Windeyer’s time.” Christ-
mas baskets laden with good things, were
distributed through the entire village, and
there was feasting and rejoicing and merry-
making the week through, great flagons of

[Column 2]
beer were opened for the men, and bottles
of good wine sent to the women folks.
	The women were not fond of the young
mistress, and they were free to talk of her
to one another, she was not their sort.
“Young Maister should have wed one of
the girls from hereabouts,” said Mrs. Hil-
lier to her neighbor, Janet Cousins (after
her first visit to see the baby) “and not gone
off to Bristol for a stuck up young woman;
I doubt me she’ll put fine notions into the
lad’s head when he grows up; he’ll not be
fit to take Maister’s place if he takes after
his mother, who’d listen to the likes o’ her,
I wonder?”
	“Now don’t be prophesyin’ evil of the
lad, he’s to be christened soon,” said Mrs.
Cousins, “and Lizzie tells me the boy’s robe
is two yards and a half long, of the finest
cambric muslin, and the lace is old Vene-
tian, and his head is so thick covered with
golden curls that Mrs. Windeyer told the
nurse he need’nt wear caps, (though they’re
all the finest lace) but Nurse Goodman
wouldn’t hear to it, and our Lizzie says as
how Mrs. Windeyer made herself sick a
cryin’ and frettin’ about the caps.”
	Lizzie was Mrs. Cousins’ daughter and a
sort of lady’s maid to Mrs. Windeyer, and
she never tired of repeating to her mother
what her young mistress said and did, and
Janet, as her mother was always called,
told everything to Mrs. Hillier (with whom
she never agreed about anything, how-
ever) for she had a kind heart and Mrs.
Hillier was envious that the young squire
had not taken to her daughter Fanny, to
whom he paid “great attentions,” as she
repeated over and over again till the whole
village gossiped about it, and Fanny was
so upset she declared “that she went off to
her uncle’s in Derby to be out of hearing,
and so’s nobody should see she was cut up
about the marriage.” The truth was she
went away until the gossip should die out,
for she was a sensible young woman, and
young Windeyer had given her to under-
stand what he had meant by “his atten-
tions” Mrs. Hillier had-talked of so much.
	“Well-a-day, whoever heard the like!”
said Mrs. Cousins to Lizzie, as the girl re-
peated to her mother the scene at the
Squire’s the night before the christening,
on her first visit home afterwards. “Little
you tho’t sittin’ there in the church so
solemn-like, what a fuss our. Mistress had
been making with the young Master the
night before, Nurse Goodman told the
whole thing to me. She wouldn’t think of
he’s even having his father’s name, as if
William wasn’t a grand name, when kings
have borne it, as Master told her, and his
father too before him; but no, she wouldn’t
hear of it, he must be called for his grand-
father, the Admiral, and she had her way
but I do think it is a mighty pretty name,
Edward; and Nurse said too as how the
Squire wanted Fanny Hillier to be the
child’s godmother, and the Mistress flew in-
to a passion directly and she said, “Yes,
I’ve heard of your attentions to that young
woman, and a nice scandal it would cause
if she were to be godmother; no, indeed,
I’ve sent for Aunt Matilda, and she’ll be
here presently; and sure enough, Nurse
said, just then the door bell rang, and be-
fore Mrs. Windeyer had quieted down,
Miss Gordon (Aunt Matilda as she called
her) had her wraps off and was; in the
room, and such a flurry as there was; but
the Squire was as sober as a judge, and
never a word did he say, so she had it all

[Column 3]
her own way, and Master has scarcely
spoken a syllable in the house since.”
	“And to think how fine and pleased we
all were, and wishing them joy like that,”
said Mrs. Hillier, when Janet repeated this
conversation to her, “she to think my Fan-
ny not good enough to be the child’s god-
mother (he’s a regular beauty, they all say)
and I doubt me he’l be as proud as a pea-
cock and Lord it over the workmen when
he steps in his father’s shoes, if he ever
should have that honor,”
	And half the village knew the story be-
fore it was a week old.
	Time went on and the village prospered,
and Mr. Windeyer grew rich with one in-
vention and another at the mills; but his
wife was as haughty as he was amiable,
and quite as much disliked as he as be-
loved. One more son had been born to
them, nine years after the first; but he was
a delicate boy, while Edward was strong
and manly, and a greater favorite than even
his father had been. Fanny Hillier re-
mained single and was Edward’s first teach-
er; and strangely enough, as he grew up, he
clung to her as his ideal, which vexed his
mother greatly, and she contrived by all
means in her power to keep her son away,
which only made matters worse. Fanny
had a younger sister, Caroline, who was a
sort of musical genius, a singer who played
the violin; and Edward would steal away
and spend his evenings there, singing and
playing on the flute to Carrie’s violin, while
the stately Fannie accompanied them on
the spinet.
	“He is only a boy, and will outgrow this 
childish love for girls so much older than
himself,” his father replied when appealed
to. “I have no fears, besides he must be
sent to college, we can well afford it; let
him go away from home, it is high time.”
Mrs. Windeyer had been urging him to
take some positive measures to break off
the intimacy with the people she considered
so far beneath her as the Hilliers.
	Mrs. Windeyer made up her mind Ed-
ward should go at once and set about the
preparations. His father was quite willing
he knew the boy was well advanced in his
studies, a fine scholar, all his teachers said,
but the parents realized he needed some
training and discipline beforehand, and fin.
ally decided he should go to Bristol, his
mother’s native city, and remain there a
year under the tutelage of a learned profes-
sor whom his mother had previously known.
	The boy went away willingly at last,
though he had protested against it and
made more ado about leaving Fanny Hil-
fier than his own father and mother, (of
which fact his mother was in blissful ig-
norance) though his father guessed it from
hints dropped by the elder Hillier, who was
one of the Squire’s trusted overseers at the
mills.
	The first few weeks Edward studied dili-
gently, and Professor Hadley wrote glow-
ing accounts of his young student to the
parents at Merton, but later on he in-
formed them that their boy was passion-
ately fond of the sea, though his lessons
were perfectly learned, he had such a won-
derful memory; but his thoughts seemed
far away, he was absent-minded and wheth-
er waking or dreaming, it was always the
sea, “It is born in the boy, and he can’t
help it,” said his father. “Undoubtedly
you’ve filled his head with nursery tales of
your grandfather, the old Admiral, and
you’ve hung those marine views in every


[Column 1]
room in the house to impress him with the
greatness of your ancestry, and then he
has possibly inherited a taste for that sort of
life; however, I’ll write to Prof. Hadley to-
morrow to hurry him off to Oxford, and
he’ll have something else to do than dream
by the seashore, his companions will cure
him of idle day dreams.”
	“I’m sure, William, you blame me for all
the boys faults. I can’t help my descent
from naval ancestry. It’s a great pity you
hadn’t married the Hillier girl, she is no
doubt keeping herself single for your sake,
it isn’t enough to have won your affection
but she’s tried to win my boy from me to
my sorrow,” said Mrs. Windeyer between
her sobs.
	“This is too serious an accusation to be
passed over silently,” replied the husband,
“never mention Fanny Hillier’s name to
me again, I positively forbid it,” and the
irate husband walked out of the house
without so much as good morning, the first
time since his marriage. His love for Mrs.
Windeyer amounted to devotion that had
never changed through all the misunder-
standings and unpleasant scenes. It was
true he had admired Fanny as a sort of
village sweetheart; but after he met Miss
Ellen Fairfax, he knew that the sentiment
he had cherished for Fanny was not the
love of a lifetime; he had often felt sorry
that Fanny did not marry, but he did not-
know, (as men seldom ever do) that she
could never marry any other man; such is
woman’s constancy when her heart is once
given to her true mate, even though that
love be given unsought. Fanny had never
breathed her secret, it could only be
guessed by the magician’s art, which un-
locks love’s secret cabinet, and whispers
softly to the winds at night-time when only
the birds are listening.
	Mrs. Windeyer fretted the live-long day.
She loved her husband, notwithstanding
her temper, and regretted that they had
parted in anger; but she was proudly am-
bitious for her son, she wanted him to be-
come a man of brilliant attainments, high
in the world’s favor. She cared little for
the affection of the people among whom
she lived, she seldom mingled with them
and though at intervals she gave them out-
door parties, she rarely appeared upon the
scene herself. Her husband felt this very
keenly, for he loved the village people, he
knew they were his true and loyal friends,
seeking his interest, while he in return
looked to the public welfare in which all
had common cause.
	Gradually the lives of the husband and
wife grew apart; there was no serious quar-
rel, she was unbearably sarcastic, and he
took her sharp sayings in dumb silence, his
love had received a fatal wonnd.
	Finally a heavier blow fell upon the
household than even the division of hus-
band and wife, for that might have been
bridged over. Just when the Squire was
planning what change might take place
when Edward came home at vacation, a
letter from the Professor came, bringing the
sad news that his son had dlsappeared; he
wrote “He has taken nothing with him.
we have had every one of his old haunts
starched, but no trace of him can be found,
we are ourselves deeply afflicted for he has
greatly endeared himself to us, and was
most respectful and affectionate, but though
we mourn, our hearts are much more deep-
ly grieved for yourself and his poor mother.”
	The clerk in the office looked up as he

[Column 2]
heard the sobs of this great strong man,
“his master,” when he read the letter; but
the Squire took no notice, though as he
arose to go he turned and said to the clerk,
“Shut the office at the usual hour, say I
have gone home if any one calls, I shall
not come back today,” and he passed out,
the open letter in his hand.
	“You have had bad news, sir, I am sor-
ry, can I do anything for you? Can I help
you? Shall I call a cab? You look so
broken up,” said the kind-hearted clerk.
	“No, thank you, I will walk, the fresh
air will do me good, besides I can think
better.”
	Yes, he had need to think over the situ-
ation. How could he tell the lad’s mother?
She would swoon, perhaps, he could not
bear to go home, not yet awhile. He
walked away into the fields, he recalled the
sayings of his son’s boyhood, when he would
climb upon his knee; things long forgotten
came back to him, “Papa, I shall go to sea
and be a great captain and have ships of
my own, and build pretty cottages for the
sailors,” and he would sing of the ocean,
the great bounding, tossing, foaming ocean.
Twilight came on while he strolled about
the fields, and when he turned homeward,
the lights were streaming from the cottage
windows. “I must go and tell Nellie our
boy has run away,” he said to himself, as
he hurried on, as one does when bent on a
hateful errand, lest he should not have the
courage if he lingered. Supper was ready
and Nellie and little Richard were waiting
his coming. He knew he could not eat,
but Mrs. Windeyer must have her tea, so
he took a cup, but his hand shook and his
wife noticing his nervous manner asked,
“Are you ill, William?”
	“No, only upset, I. shall be better soon.”
	“Has there been a disturbance at the
mills? The men grow restless towards pay
day, I’ve noticed.”
	“Nothing has gone wrong at the mills,
I’ve had a letter from Bristol about Ed-
ward.”
	“Has he gone away? Tell me the worst,”
said Mrs. Windeyer excitedly.
	“I can’t tell you, I don’t know myself,”
and he handed the letter to his wife.
	But she did not faint, or even weep as
she read on, “This is the old story over
again; he’s gone to sea, undoubtedly, he
knew we would not give our consent, and
so he’s gone without asking. We shall
hear from him soon, when he is far away,
so we cannot bring him back, he will take
no harm, he was born to the music of the
Xmas bells, rather a sea captain than the
owner and overseer of these humdrum-
mills.”
	Mr. Windeyer took Richard in his arms,
for comfort, such a frail child, and he said
“We’ll go upstairs. I must answer this
letter tonight, he must be found.”
	Accordingly the father wrote to the ship-
ping merchants at Bristol for particulars of
the ship’s crew on board the vessels that
had sailed about that time, and also to the
Professor to spare no means to ascertain
whither the boy had gone. Hearing nothing
satisfactory in reply, he set out himself for
Bristol and made diligent search, but all in
vain, no tidings could be obtained.
	Christmas came, but out of respect to the
Squire, the villagers refrained from making
any public demonstration. Never had there
been such a quiet Christmas, so the women
said, and indeed the young man’s fate was
truly lamented, and many a tear fell when

[Column 3]
ever his name was spoken. Even his
mother began to despond as time wore on,
and no news came of her darling boy. She
had been hopeful at first, but as day after
day she watched and waited, she grew pale
and sleepless, and finally so melancholy
that old Dr. Gray advised the seashore,
and her husband consented. “I shall be
nearer if my boy comes back, and more-
likely to hear news of him, and you shall
know immediately, William,” she said to
her husband the morning of her departure.
Aunt Matilda had come to travel with her
as the Squire could not leave his business
just then.
	“I knew how ’twould be,” old Mrs.
Hillier said, “I always said her pride would
have a fall; he’ll never come back, he’s
most likely dead, and that boy Richard
will never live to be a man. She’s punish-
ed hard enough for looking down on them
as made their money for em.”
	“Now, Sarah, that’s very wrong,” said
her husband, “she’s not punished for that,
better folks nor her are chastened. What
does the Bible say, Sarah? Read about Job,
how he was afflicted. Mind don’t go agin
scripture, there’s not a better man livin’
than Willie Windeyer, I’ve known him
since he were a wee lad, and as for Edward,
you can’t say there were any evil in him."
	“No, dad, I don’t say anything agin
Edward, but its the stuck-up Bristol wo-
man, but she’ll suffer for’t, pride must have
a fall, that’s scriptur, ain’t it dad?”
	“Not exactly, Sarah, but don’t rejoice in
anybody’s trouble, its wrong, its cruel, be-
sides you know how Fanny has always
felt about Edward, she’s sure he’ll come
back some day.” 
	“Well, yes, may be, and Carrie will be
married and gone, and she set such store by
him. I don’t see why I should be sorry for
’em, they’ve brung me no end o’ trouble,
what with Fanny bein’ in love with Will as
she’ll never get over it, and Carrie with Ed-
ward, I’m the one as is to be pitied.”
	“Carrie’s love wasn’t very deep I should
think, she’s sweet now on Jim Farley
a’ready, and you talkin’ of her marryin’
soon yourself.”
	“I’m glad if she do marry him and be
done with’t. I don’t want another old
maid in the family, a pinin’ for something
she’ll never git.”
	“Better have old maids than bad hus-
bands for our girls, but I’ve no objection to
Jim Farley, he’s a fine lad and a goodish
family, and we know em for what they are,
they’ll have my consent when they’re
ready.”
	It was hard for Mrs. Hillier to forgive,
she was an honest, upright woman, but
she wasn’t fond of “bettermost people” un
less they were very amiable. As for Ed-
ward, he had never thought of loving
Carrie, she was ten years older; but he
adored her sister Fanny, who was old
enough to be his mother, though of marri-
age the boy had never yet dreamed. 
	Three long years had gone by, and no
news of Edward Windeyer. Of all the
ships that had sailed out of Bristol, most of
them had come back heavy laden and gone
out again, but still his mother hoped on.
She had grown stronger and returned to
Merton, and though a sort of gloom per-
vaded the place at holiday times, yet usually
cheerfulness prevailed, and the Windeyers
were seldom without visitors from Bristol.
		Continued on page 46.


MUSTY LEAVES, BROWN WITH AGE.
		Continued from page 43.
	At Christmas time, three years and more
after Ned’s absence, (as his friends some-
times called him) and the Squire’s home
was filled with Bristol friends, mostly
young folks desirous of seeing a village
Christmas festival, and the Squire had in-
vited as many people from the mills as
could be accommodated The dinner was
to be at five o'clock, but as the day was
foggy, the lamps were lighted early and
gaiety seemed to reign within and without.
The Hilliers and the Cousins were there,
and many other mill hands. Mrs. Wind-
eyer seemed herself again, so old Dr. Gray
said to Fanny to whom of late he had been
devoted; but Fanny and Mrs. Windeyer
both seemed restless and apprehensive.
Dinner was over and toasts were being
given, but there was an awkward pause,
the guests not knowing exactly what
would be fit to propose, for each one pre-
sent realized the absence of the long-lost
son, who would have been the life of the
company, in fact the sorrow on his account
had been general in the community.
	Dr. Gray lifted his glass and was about
to speak. He had made up his mind to
propose a toast for the absent son, when the
boy himself, alive and well, appeared upon
the scene, fresh and blooming, in a mid-
shipman’s costume, his sailor hat with its
long streamers in hand, the golden curls
tossed back, and collar thrown open, dis-
playing a neck bronzed with sun and wind.
All eyes were fixed upon, him, and many a
glass dropped from the hands that held
them, shivering to atoms. Dr. Gray came
to the rescue; not a word, had been spoken, it
was like the dead come back again, the
doctor in a voice trembling with emotion
lifted his glass, “Here’s to the long-lost
lad returned to gladden hearts and home!”
“Speak, Edward, to your mother and fath-
er.’’
	Coming out of the fog and darkness into
the brilliant light, the young man was
dazed and totally unprepared for the scene
he had burst in upon; he came unannounced
to surprise the family, thinking it would be
a small party, though he had noticed the
brilliant lights; but when he saw the vil-
lagers, many whom he had known, he was
bewildered and speechless. He grasped
the situation, however, and graciously
withdrew, followed by his father, mother
and brother. Very little was said, the
company dispersed, Dr. Gray taking matters
in hand, the villagers withdrew, the guests
retired to their sleeping apartments, and
Edward though much in need of rest could
not sleep but sat long by the firelight of the
Christmas logs when all the lamps were
out, talking of his adventures to eager
listeners.
	He had not intended to go to sea, not
then, but he loved to see the ships sail out,
and to talk to the sailors. He was down at
the wharf and had been beguiled into one
of the many drinking places where a crowd
of fine, strong men were taking “grog’’ be-
fore going on board a great whaling vessel
that was anchored close by; he wanted to
see the ship pull out. He drank with one
of the lads, a fine young fellow about his
own age, and then went on board with him,
intending to get ashore again very soon,
but he fell asleep, and when he woke, all
was dark, and he could not recall where he
was or how he came to be in such a strange
place, for he could feel the motion of the


[Column 1]
vessel and turned dizzy when he tried to
rise.
	“What I endured for the first few days
on board that vessel,” he said, “can never 
be told, the remorse of conscience, the 
mortification, the despair; many times I 
prayed to die, I felt I could never meet my
father or mother or any of my former
friends again. We had a fine captain, he
blamed the young man, Tom Wetherell, for
bringing me on board, until I was so sorry
for Tom that I began to be reconciled to
my fate. He mourned for me, too, poor
fellow, and he tried to make up for it in
every way possible. He taught me how to
do my work, and I had the tact and skill
necessary to get on. We were always good
friends, and no matter where we put ashore,
he would entertain me in true hospitable
sailor style. Sailors have good hearts,
though their manners are rough and un-
couth, and their use of the King’s English
is beyond description. There were many
unpleasant experiences for a fellow brought
up tenderly as I had been, but the Captain
noticed this and gave me the easiest places,
and I improved so rapidly, and displayed
such uncommon courage and such an ad-
venturous spirit at times, that he promoted
me when our mate who was not over
strong at the beginning of the voyage was
quite unable to keep on duty, and I can-
not say but my great grandfather, the Ad-
miral, having been in His Majesty’s ser-
vice, had something to do with it.”
	The festivities on the day following
Ned’s return were on the most magnificent
scale ever known in Merton, and the whole
village was in a state of joyful excitement.
The very garb he wore was a great attrac-
tion to the young people. We who live in
this day and in an inland country know
comparatively little of how the sailor cos-
tume fascinates people, especially the young
generation. Scores of girls fell in love with
Edward Windeyer, and he was jovial and
courteous with all; but there were those of
them who were so much enamored of hm
that they watched with envy the attentions
he bestowed on others, and especially on
one, who as they said, “couldn’t compare
with the girls in his own vicinity.” She
was neither beautiful, nor yet attractive to
her own sex (who were for the most part
jealous of her) notwithstanding her plain
appearance, and her poverty yet the young
man admired her, she could converse well,
and her voice was singularly pathetic and
musical; she was graceful in manner and
danced beautifully.
	“Think of Edward Windeyer being en-
gaged to Miss Morley, and he has only met
her three or four times,” said spiteful Hettie
Willis to her two friends, Olive Somers and
Anna Dalley, the trio they were called, all
well to do, of good families, girls of style,
the tip top of society in Merton, in fact they
boasted on occasions that their fathers were
not in Squire Windeyer’s employ, but in
business of their own, and their mothers
had never worked for a living, not even as
governesses; indeed, they were well-con-
nected as the world goes.
	But even so, Edward fell in love at first
sight with Miss Morley. His mother fretted
and fumed, but all to no purpose his fath-
er said nothing, but allowed him to do as
he pleased. Finally when it became ap-
parent that the matter was serious and he
was determined to marry Miss Morley, if
he could persuade her to accept him, (which
was not an easy matter), his mother en-

[Column 2]
deavored to dissuade him from taking such
a course, or even entering into an engage-
ment while so young; and implored his
father to forbid the marriage, declaring she
believed it to be due to the interference of
Fanny Hillier, who, she said, seemed ever
her “evil genius.” At last the mother con-
soled herself with the thought it would
keep him at home, and she took the first
opportunity of inviting the young lady to
the house. After much persuasion and en-
treaty, Miss Morley at last consented to
beard the lioness in her home, so to speak,
for she was in mortal dread of Mrs. Wind-
eyee, having heard so much of her pride
and haughtiness.
	Once within the Windeyer home, Ed-
ward never left his fiance for an hour if he
could avoid it, lest his mother should
frighten her away, for she was as timid as
a bird.
	Mrs. Windeyer looked her over quizzi-
cally and inquired into her pedigree, every
now and then saying, “humph,” or “so he
was your uncle,” or “she was your grand-
mother,” with anything but an approving
tone or manner.
	After the visit of Miss Morley to the
Windeyer’s in their own home, Mrs. Wind-
eyer was still more opposed than before,
and said to her boy, “Ned, the girl has no
sort of family reputation to fall back upon,
she is only from the common people for all
her fine manners and accomplishments. I
wish you would give up this whim, you
will soon tire of those soulful eyes and
dainty ways she is not of good blood, she
has really nothing to recommend her go
back to Bristol and prepare for Oxford un-
der Professor Hadley, he will gladly take
you again, and you may marry among the
best families your father’s wealth would
be an inducement for any girl, and you
surely will regret it if you take this child
without either money or ancestry.”
	Even after all the entreaties it was possi-
ble for his mother to use, Edward persisted
in his determination, and Richard stood by
by him. saying, “Mama, she is lovely, and
sings like an angel. I love her myself
more than Ned does. I wish I could marry
Margaret: no one should hinder me, not
even my father, if I were older and she
would have me.”
	Mrs. Windeyer was puzzled, and in-
quired, “Who told you her name, Rich-
ard?”
	“She told me, and said I could call her
sister; and I will, no matter who dislikes
her besides, she is not so much in love
with Ned, it’s only his imperious manner
and she hopes to win him over to love home
and country life, and leave off sea-faring,
which will make him coarse and rough, and
wean him from those who love him so de-
votedly.”
	“Oh, is this all, Richard? We shall see
what Margaret will do anon. I am not
jealous of my little brother, but no one must
interfere, and mama, I must be the sole
judge in this matter of marriage, and shall
take this little village maiden who is with-
out anything to recommend  her, so you
say, and perhaps not much, save her inno-
cence and purity of heart and soul.”
	The Squire gave his consent willingly to
the marriage, and three months after the
young lady’s visit to Merton they were
joined in wedlock in the little church at
Easton, the town where Margaret Morley’s
parents were born and died. Mrs. Windeyer
would not consent to witness the ceremony,

[Column 3]
though the young couple came home with
the father as soon as the wedding celebra-
tion was over.
	One year of “love’s sweet young dream”
and of intense sorrow for the bride, and
Margaret fled from the home that was un-
bearable to her sensitive nature—fled to
Fanny Hillier for protection and sympathy.
She would not go to her grandma (who had
reared her), to burden her with sorrow
father and mother were both dead, and she
had no brother or sister. Mrs. Windeyer
had made her life unendurable—she had
professed everything and fulfilled nothing.
“Such a child, she can never really be a
wife or a mother,” she had said to Ned
once or twice in the wife’s presence.
	“Let her be,” Mrs. Windeyer said to Ed-
ward; “she’ll come back of her own ac-
cord but if you go after her to coax her,
she’ll be trying the same thing again.”
	Richard pined for her almost as much as
Ned himself, but he was positively forbid-
den to go to see her.
	Squire Windeyer advised Edward to take
a house and make a home of his own near
them, for he was fondly attached to Marga-
ret, and he knew it would be impossible for
him to visit her at the Hillier cottage. The
kind-hearted man said to his son, “Marga-
ret needs sympathy now, and Fanny is
overflowing with tenderness and love for
all humanity; she is the very person to
whom one can go in trouble the only one,
my boy, who never lost faith in you—nev-
er gave you up when you were so long
away from home. She believed in your
fidelity and was sure you would come back
someday.”
	Evidently Mrs. Hillier did not respond to
the generous impulses of her daughter, and
she took occasion to speak her mind rather
freely to Fanny one day soon after young
Mrs. Windeyer had taken refuge at their
home.
	“A pretty scandal this will make, tak-
ing in Edward’s wife. I have no patience
with such nonsense. If she can’t live with
his mother, let her go back to her own.
You’ll be talked about finely for mixing up
in this affair. Mrs. Windeyer will not
spare you, you know that well enough.”
	“Hush, mother, for pity’s sake she will
hear you her ears are so quick to catch the
least sound.”
	It was already too late. Margaret had
heard all, and felt the sting. She knew it
was true that Mrs. Windeyer would not
spare Fanny in the least, though in her
trouble she had not thought of it; but now
she would go before anyone could hinder
her—whither she knew not. Putting on
her hat and cloak, she disguised herself as
much as possible, and though trembling in
every limb and weak from excessive grief,
she ran down the garden walk and was out
upon the high road before anyone knew she
had left the house.
	Fanny went in with a dainty lunch to
tempt her appetite, and found the room
deserted, her wraps gone, then she knew
Margaret must have overheard her mother
and putting on her own things she started
to follow and bring her back if possible.
The search was vain, and she sent a mes-
sage to Edward, but his mother intercepted
it, and night coming on, Fanny, restless with
anxiety, waited, not knowing what to do.
Morning brought no news, and Fanny be-
gan inquiring on her own account. Mr.
Windeyer, however, heard it at the mills,
and severely reprimanded his son for the


[Column 1]
first time in his life. Mrs. Windeyer heard
the scathing rebuke and said placidly, “She
has gone to her grandma, whom she adores
more than anyone in the world.”
	Before she could say any more, Edward
had left the home forever. “I must find
her, dead or alive,” he soliloquized as he
strode off. “Fanny must know I’ve gone,”
and he dashed off a note in pencil as he
walked on, and mailed it before leaving
town.
	Those were not the days of telegrams and
fast trains, but he knew the road to East-
on, yet he questioned her going there. He
changed his mind and went direct to Bris-
tol, and though he knew it not, Margaret
had taken a coach a few miles out of Mer-
ton and gone to that large city. She was
not without money and had with her all her
jewelry.
	Arriving there he began his search, and
after one whole week he found her where
she had taken lodgings. She, was suffering
great mental agony. A doctor had been
called in, who had said immediately, “Send
for her mother,” then noticing the wedding
ring she wore, asked for her husband. Ed-
ward arrived opportunely, and wrote un-
hestitatingly for the one friend he knew he
could depend upon, Fanny Hillier, who
came as fast as horses could travel, Mean-
time a babe had been torn to the pale,
sweet child-mother, and Margaret was
happy now, after all her suffering, and re-
covered speedily. The young husband
was anxious to take his wife and child
home to Merton, but the little mother
would uot be persuaded to go. “No, nev-
er! Take me to my own home, to my
grandma, where I shall be always welcome.”
And her wishes were complied with.
	One cold morning, Edward, Margaret
and baby, accompanied by the faithful
Fanny, set off in a rumbling old stage
coach for the little town of Easton, only a
few miles off, and were put down at Grand-
ma Morley’s door. The old lady’s delight
was positively exhilarating when she saw
the happy party arrive. She had heard
nothing of the troubles and changes of her
darling grandchild, though she had warned
her against marrying Edward, when she
learned he had been at sea. “No more
parting now,” Ned said, when he saw
how delighted Margaret looked; and he
meant it then, but he did not measure his
own strength correctly. He was too near
the sea. Fanny believed in him, so did his
wife, but his resolves were vain. Very
soon a letter came from his mother re-
proaching him with ingratitude. “Richard
is ill, nigh unto death. Leave Margaret
with the nurse and come to us,” his moth-
er wrote. After this letter Edward was
worried and perplexed. His father had
sent money for all expenses so far, but his
wife and child needed delicacies, but he
must work. Another letter came from His
mother, upbraiding him with neglect, and
declared that unless he returned to them
with his wife and child, he should never
have a penny with her consent, and he felt
sure she would carry out the threat.
	“The sea wilt bear me away out of all

[Column 2]
this. I will go aboard a merchantman, a
few months’ voyage around the Mediterra-
nean, and when I return all will have set-
tled down, and I shall have plenty of money
of my own.” This was how he reasoned,
and at last Margaret bravely consented. He
sailed away true-hearted and strong, in-
tending to be gone only for a short voy-
age.
	Fanny Hillier returned home and an-
swered all the numerous questions of
neighbors, but Mrs. Windeyer would not
condescend to inquire even concerning her
own.
	Fanny’s father, however, kept the Squire
posted, giving him full particulars about
his little girl grandchild.
	Richard was very ill, and when the
Squire would sit by him alone, he would
tell him of Edward’s baby and promised
him as soon as he was well he would
take him to see little Ruth. Richard re-
peated to his mama that he was to go and
see the baby, and Mrs. Windeyer made up
her mind to get the little girl for her own.
She had wished for a daughter when Rich-
ard came, and now she saw an opportunity,
she wrote to her Aunt Matilda at Bristol to
come to her, and to try and persuade Ed-
ward’s wife to let her bring the baby with
her for Richard’s sake, knowing how Mar-
garet had loved him, and how self-sacrific-
ing she had been for others, she flattered
herself this would induce the mother to let
the child come to her. Miss Gordon wrent
to Easton and urged Margaret to give the
baby to Mrs. Windeyer, but the little
mother stoutly refused—“Not if I had to
beg my bread from door to door would I
part with my baby.” She made no com-
plaint, indulged in no recriminations, but
Miss Gordon knew by her manner that
her entreaties were vain. Miss Gordon
was annoyed when meeting Mrs.
Morley to find her an old schoolmate,
whom she had lost sight of for many
years, and many pleasing reminiscences
were recalled and the day was spent agree-
ably after all.
	When Annt Matilda arrived at Merton,
Richard was sinking rapidly, but as soon
as she found an opportunity she told her
niece the result of her visit to Margaret,
and added, “Your son’s wife comes of a
fine old Bristol family—her grandmother
was at boarding school with me; one of
the most charming girls, and married a
most brilliant officer; a widow now, with,
a moderate income, and as grand as a duch-
ess in appearance.”
	“But the child, Aunt Matilda! You see
Richard is dying, and I shall be left child-
less.”
	It was hard for Miss Gordon to see her
grief—she loved her niece; but she must
speak plainly now. “You will never have
that child, Nellie, unless the mother should
die. It is selfish to ask. She is alone; her
husband gone, perhaps never to return—
the sea is treacherous; and you have wealth,
position, and a husband to be proud of,
while she is almost alone in the world and
worships the little daughter.”
	It was a trying moment for Aunt Matil-

[Column 3]
da. She had never spoken unkindly to
anyone, but she was a woman of sense and
experience, and she felt Nellie needed to
be told the plain truth, and it might in
her great sorrow soften her heart and cause
her to relent and to repent.
	Concluded in January Number.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER, 1904


[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS THOUGHTS.
	If one could give to all the needy and
unfortunate at Christmas time, how happy
one might be, but the world’s needs are
many and there is so little one can do to
make things better, or to help just the few
of one’s own acquaintances, and even then
the knowledge that there are great needs,
and much suffering that cannot be reached
and perhaps for which no remedy has yet
been found, leaves one despondent over the
world’s betterment. Still most people do
try at Christmas to give some sort of up-
lift to the day, and one’s neighbors and
friends, particularly the children, and as it
seems children’s day more than any other
day in the whole year, one ought to do all
that is possible to teach them what Christ-
mas means, and how it should be kept.
	The narration of the birth of the Christ-
child is far more fascinating than any
Santa Claus story, if told in its simplicity,
with vivid word pictures. The children
always want to hear about babies, and this
story of Jesus in the manger never grows
old; the shepherds tending their flocks at
night, the glory that shone round about
them, the wise men bringing precious gifts,
walking with staffs in their hands and
wearing long flowing robes; and Mary the
sweet mother with the beautiful child in
her arms, these truths unfolded in the
simple language children can comprehend,
will make lasting impressions on the little
one’s mind. The golden rule applied “To
do to others as ye would they should do to
you” is the lesson to be given early to the
children in season and out of season.
	This year has been a bountiful one in all
respects and the people have special reason
for ministering to those who are les favor-
ed, and in this city appearances would indi-
cate there were no hungry one’s at Christ-
mas time even among the poor. The Sal-
vation Army people gather of all kinds and
open their arms and their hearts to the
poorest of the poor. Miss Eva Booth com-
mander of the Salvation Army in the
United States says, “Give us the children
and we will save the world.” Shall we
who profess so much let any little waif go
without either temporal or spiritual salva-
tion.
	Assurdly not! We have our Primary
Associations for the little folks and a grave
responsibility rests upon those in charge.
True mothers love all children, not only
their own, but the children of the great
world outside iheir own four walls, and can

[Column 2]
never be quite content while there are
children who are hungry and poorly clad.
This is the true Christmas spirit, the real
mother love that must penetrate the heart
of the world. The Primary’s are daring a
grand and noble work, let us hope they
may be able to reach all the children and
gather them in where the Golden Rule is
not only taught but exemplified in univer-
sal love towards one another.
	In the new year now almost dawning,
what great possibililies may be unfolded,
none of us can tell, but we who have faith
in the great future should certainly put
forth our best efforts in the work of educa-
tion in its largest and best sense, and we
in our mountain home have so many ad-
vantages for the spread of truth, and every
year the work of imparting true knowl-
edge increases. The tens of thousands of
children born in Zion what a mighty host
they are, what may not these little ones do
towards the spiritual progress of the world’s
civilization in the years to come.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

MRS ELMINA SHEPARD TAYLOR,
PRESIDENT Y. L. N. M. I. A.

“It is one long chapter of memories,
	Tender and true and sweet,
That gleam on the past and the distance.
	Like lamps that burn at her feet.
“Like stars that will shine forever—
	For time cannot touch or stir
The graces that her life has given,
	Or the trust that we give to her,”

	If these words were ever true of any
who have gone, they are true of our
dear departed and beloved Sister Taylor,
One long chapter of memories comes before
the mind’s eye of the writer as she tries to
collect her wandering thoughts, that range
back over the years that are gone beyond
recall.
	Oh, the visions that shine out clear and
bright, and tell of the beautiful life of the
friend we shall see no more this side the
vail, that shuts us out from those who have
journeyed on to the heavenly mansions.
	We miss them so, and tears will come,
although we know they would not return.
They have finished their mission here, and
are prepared for better and higher things.
	Our beloved sister could not tarry longer
here; mighty love and faith kept her when
it seemed almost impossible again and
again for her to rally and regain her hold
upon life; that her life work was well
rounded out and complete, all will surely
admit. Yet human love is selfish; knowing
her suffering, how could those who even
needed her most ask that she linger long-
er, hard as the parting must be. God was
good to her and those around her that she
passed peacefully away after years of patient
suffering.
	If those who were watching then could
have beheld the escort that came to convoy
her to the “other side,” it would have been
a glorious scene, and to have heard the
heavenly voices would have thrilled the
souls of all present; but we mortals are
not permitted to witness these ecstatic tri-
umphs; only we know by the intuition
given of the Spirit, that we go not forth
alone. There have been testimonies to
prove these facts; they are not frequent,
but enough to give one who believes in

[Column 2]
heavenly messengers, assurance of these
angelic attendants.
	Sister Taylor’s life had been so closely
guarded always by her devoted husband,
that one cannot think she could be left to
herself. Their home life has been as nearly
perfect as possible, and this must be a great
consolation to those who miss her presence
in the home circle. Life was very sweet
to her, except because of her ill-health.
But dwell upon it as we may in all its
phases, we cannot do aught but seek to
reconcile ourselves to the inevitable.
	It is for those who loved and admired her
noble character, her wisdom, her patience,
her great fortitude, to endeavor to follow
her footsteps and fill up their days in use-
fulness, as she has striven to do. She pos-
sessed and cultivated all the characteristics
that make for excellence in womanhood;
whatever she did was well done, no matter
how distasteful the task might be. Her
integrity to the Gospel was unquestioned,
and her fidelity to every principle was prov-
en b yond all doubt. She had been “tried
as by fire,” and her spirit did not quail—
she never faltered.
	She has gone, and we know and realize
all is for the best, yet we shall miss her
greatly, and especially will those who de-
pended upon her advice and counsel in the
organization of which she was the central
figure and light, encircling them all in the
arms of her great love, and giving to each
one her portion in due season. But they
must learn to stand without her to lean
upon—the love will remain, though they
cannot see her nor hear her voice; yet the
remembrance of the intimate association
will be as a sweet fragrance shed on their
onward pathway while life lasts. They can
never forget what she has been to them.
	Sister Taylor was born of goodly parents,
of the old Puritan stock, though her birth-
place was in Middlefield, Ostego county,
New York, September 12th, 1830. She
was educated for a teacher, graduating from
a ladies seminary, and taught school
for several years at Haverstraw, on the
banks of the Hudson; while there engaged
in teaching she became acquainted with
George H. Taylor, who resided in that lo-
cality, and it was there also she heard the
Gospel and accepted its teachings, and was
baptized a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, and very soon
after married to Brother George H. Taylor,
August 31, 1855. The marriage ceremony
was performed by Apostle John Taylor, who
was at that time presiding in New York.
	Brother and Sister Taylor came to Utah
in 1859, and have resided here ever since.
Brother Taylor has been Bishop of the
Fourteenth ward in this city many years.
	Sister Taylor was the mother of seven
children, all of them born here; three sons
and one daughter with several grandchild-
ren remain to mourn the loss of a wise,
tender and loving mother; but she has
gone to join those three little ones who pre-
ceded her to the spirit world, and over
whom she will rejoice with joy surpassing
all earthly happiness; and there are many 
to welcome her to the mansions of glory
and rest—her father and mother and rela-
tives, and many dear friends.
	Among her associates who will rejoice at
her coming and with whom she will meet
and bear tidings will be Sister Eliza R.
Snow, Aunt Zina Young, and Sisters Hey-
wood, Howard, Richardson, Helen Whitney, 
Sarah M. Kimball, and many more.


Sister E. S. Taylor's death occurred
about 11 a.m. Tuesday, December 6, 1904,
at her well-known residence in this city.
One less at home!
The charmed circle broken—a dear face
Missed, day by day from its accustomed place,
But purified and perfected by grace,
One more in heaven!
	The funeral services of Sister Taylor
were held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall
on Sunday, December 11, under the aus-
pices of the General Board of the Y. L. M.
I. A. assisted by the Y. M. M. I. A. The
hall was artistically draped in white, giv-
ing an effect of the utmost purity in design,
the flowers were delicate in color and beau-
tiful in variety, and the entire appearance
of the building denoted perfection in all
its details. The office[-]s and General Board
were seated on the stands, the upper stand
only being occupied by the First Presidency
of the Church and some of the speakers.
President Joseph F. Smith presided, and
also made the principal address in honor of
the deceased. Everything was of the high-
est order of merit and excellence, as well as
beauty in every particular. The whole effect
was of purity and sublimity in keeping with
the life and character of their departed presi-
dent and leader.
	At another time we hope to make a more
extended notice of the funeral.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
AN ARIZONA CHRISTMAS.
In a country new, where settlers made
Their cabins far, far apart,
Where heavy timber deep shadows laid,
Lived a woman sad at heart;
For her husband was an outlaw wild,
And fleeing from law and men,
Had left his home and wife and child,
In a lonely mountain glen.

Many a weary month had passed
Nor letter nor tidings came;
Of whom could the lonely woman ask,
When the very thought was shame?
She had tilled the ground and gathered in
The little store of food,
But count it all, 'twould not suffice,
To fill their wants tho' rude.
And she thought of the little feet all bare,
Toughened and bruised and cold,
And then, of the mining town—’twas there
The miner's brought their gold.

She knew of but one thing she could sell,
And 'twas not a woman's task,
But had not a woman a right as well?
She would go and see and ask.
And so she gathered the fallen wood,
And harnessed the faithful team,
She piled it high and she bouud it good
And through it all, like a dream,
She saw her table filled again
With good things needed long—
Shoes for the stone-bruised feet—and then
Unconscious hummed a song.

When she reached home the sun was down,
But she baked the next day's bread:
She brought in wood and piled around,
Then supper, and prayers were said,
When the morning broke, as they sat and ate,
She said to her child[-]en three:
"I am going away, and it will be late
Before you must look for me;
But here is food for the noonday meal
Aud this is for supper too;
And keep a fire, and cheerful feel
And God will watch over you.

"If you are sleepy before I'm here,
Lie down in your mama's bed,
With hearts of prayer, and no danger fear,
But rest in peace instead;
Keep shut the door, for the wind may rise,
And perhaps the snow may fall;
And mother will bring a glad surprise,
If you do as I've told you all"
And then she kissed each sunburned cheek
And fastened herself, the door;
But looked back oft to the lonely place
From the dreary road before.

[Column 2]
Ten of the fifteen miles were gone,
When out from the dark'ning cloud
The thunder broke with a heavy roar
And the wind swept high and loud,
The earth was drenched with a chilling rain,
And then it changed to snow:
’Till her trembling form was filled with pain,
And five miles yet to go.
Slowly the faithful team went on
With dull and drooping head;
The light of day from the earth had gone
But the town-lights gleamed ahead.

Out from a building bright and warm,
A rough man stepped, then called—
And others hastened out in the storm
And faced as with fear appalled—
A team that stood as if hewn from stone.
A figure above, all white
That turned nor moved when the bright light,
	shone,
Nor answered the men's salute.
They climbed the seat and they lifted down
The form in a man's coat clad.
They b[-]re it in and gathered 'round
With faces wondering, sad.

Then a shock went 'round the eager crowd
As they saw a woman’s face—
“A woman!” they dared not speak out loud,
“In such a night, and in such a place!"
A face that none there e'er had known
But the coat—some knew that [-]ell;
There were bullet holes in the sleeves
	and one
Could the owner's story tell.
"It is Dick Hale's coat! It is Dick Hales'
	wife!
And she has been forced to bring
That wood to sell and has risked her life
For her children’s suffering.”

Then while they stared, the warmth brought
back.
The life-blood's course with pain;
Of help and comfort there was [-]o lack—
But her poor bewildered brain
Cared not the faces of rude, rough men
That tenderer grew at her cry:
'I must get back to my home again
Or my little ones will die.”

"We'll take you back, yes, this very night,
As fast as a team can go,
Tell what you want, it will be all right—
We’ll be off in an hour or so."
Out of the shamed old coat she drew
A paper, and they read:
"Shoes for Dick and little Sam,
A dress of white and red
For baby May, and some trifles small
To hang in their stockings, then
Two story books, and a little doll,
And sugar and tea." The men
Passed it around; "Who'll buy the load?"
Every hand in the crowd went high,
And every rough face smiling showed
One thought as they passed by.

Out in the storm and adown the street
To the largest store they went,
It was Christmas Eve, and cold nor sleet
Could hinder these men’s intent.

Sa[-]d one, "I'm in for a big fat goose,
it's good on a Christmas day.
Fixed up right with cranberry juice
And apples and pies, anyway.”

Said another, "just give me a spiced pork
	roast.
And a pudding boiled—women kno[-]
	how—
And rich mince pie, and doughnuts; most
People would like that—now[-]"

Then an English born, pleased voice said
	"No,
Roast beef is a better still,
With real plum pudding and a cake or so,
It makes a right royal fill.”

Then a Yankke spoke up after that:
"You can all get what you please.
But mine's a turkey—you bet your hat!
With pumpkin pie, stuffing and cheese."

But each one carried out his own plan,
As he had a right to do;
And each one thought of little Dan,
Of Dick and the baby too.

[Column 3]
And of toys the pile assumed su[-]h size,
That the merchant smiling, said:
"You have large families, I surmise[-]"
But the buyers went ahead,
Apples and oranges, red and gold,
Harmonicas, drums and fifes,
Painted horses and lions bold,
Marbles and mittens and knives.
Then gently came the grocer's wife:
"For the little girl a doll,
For the little boys a top and a knife,
'Twill please them best of all."
The grocer tied up rasins and rice,
Sardines and pickles and jam.
Coal-oil, soap, and tea and spice;
"That's the kind of a man I am."

Back to the warm old "Grocery" went
The men with great bundles all;
And the smiling merchant swiftly sent
The varied parcels all;
Asleep the wearied mother lay,
The glowing lamp turned low;
She needs to rest the time away
'Till the boys are here to go."

Then the sound of light bells woke the air
And the moon shone clear and bright,
On a loaded sleigh, at the old place where
The tired team stopped that night.
The goods all in—they brought her out
And helped her to her seat;
A bear skin robe piled high about
And soft furs at her feet;
The skin of a mountain lion spread
Before her to ward the cold,
A purse,—“The price of the wood,” they
	said—
In her trembling hands to hold.

"Good bye! A Merry Christmas!" cried
The grocer's honest voice;
And the group that stayed behind, all tried
In "hurrahs" to vent their joys.

Forward—the Livery’s horses sprang,
And the hardy, true souled men
Out on the night air loudly sang,
A Christmas song of their childhood's time,
Forgotten, for oh[-] so long—
But the Christmas spell and its own old
	rhymes,
Freshen even the heart gone wrong.

Was it the same road she had come,
Facing alone the storm[-]
Sinking at heart and with lips benumbed,
And now, all blessed and warm?
O, the flying hoofs and the ringing bells,
And the world so sparkling bright.
Yes—the presence of His Spirit tells—
It is the one, same night,
Where her jaded team, with its heavy head
Dragged painfully and slow,
The shining harness like silver glowed
And crystals gemmed the snow,
The outlaw's coat was hid in furs
And joy, not pain was here,
The trust of the pure in heart was her's
And her home and loved were near.

Ah! they had flown—those splendid four,
While wrapt in her rest from pain,
They had drawn the rein at her own door,
She was with [-]er own again.
They entered in and all quiet lay
Both little Dick and Da[-],
And across the body of baby May,
Dick clasped her dimpled hand,
From the great back log still glowing there
The smouldering embers warmed;
O'er stone-bruised feet, uncovered, bare,
In peaceful sleep unharmed.

They brought in all the great sleigh's load
As silently as though
The peace and bliss of that abode
Were such as angels know.
At last they turned and looked at her,
And at the children's bed,
Then at the chimney's mantle; "Were
You going to?" "Yes"—she read
The happy question; "Help me, please,
For I don't kno[-]"—"Yes, but we do;"
And in a moment on bended knees,
Boxes were opened out to view,

Boots red-topped and with stockings gay,
They hung them up high above;
Toys and music and books in array,
O, sacrifice! and O, love!
Blessings to gladden the lonely place,


Comforts to eat and to wear;
Silence—but shone in each glowing face,
	Happiness! and to spare.
Blankets soft as the young lambs fleece,
	Scarlet and blue and gray;
Robes of the bear and the lion, these
	Were their gifts for her that day.
Goose and turkey and beef,
	Each man had done his will;
Pastry and fruits from the baker’s chief;
	Candies and nuts until,
Everything bad been put in place,
	Then they took one more look
Up to the mantle, rude, but graced
	With gifts upen every hook;
Looked once more at the sleepers there,
	Then—as a chicken crew—
Started and stared! “Well, I’ll declare!
	Good bye—Merry Christmas to you!”

Out on the faintly growing dawn
	The bells rang merrily,
She listened until the sounds were gone,
	Then sank on bended knee.
Then as she piled her fire anew
	And spread her table clean,
Thesunlight entered the windows through
	And lighted the blessed scene.
“Mama,” Mary’s waking voice called out—
	O, have you come? We’ve been
Just as good as—O! what’s that?”
	Her shout awakened the little men.
No need now to say more of this:
	Every Christmas morn.
Every household knows the bliss
	That comes to the Christian born.
As though forgetting everything
	Bright little Dick made pause—
“I dreamed that I heard sleigh bells ring—
	I knew it was Santa Claus”
And as Dan’s wandering eye fell on
	Robe of lion and grizzly bear—
He cried—“Oh, Santa Claus has gone
	And left his furs! See there.”

When the sleigh and the flying four reached
		town,
	It was all awake with noise,
And the Grocer’s friends had gathered round,
	To welcome back “the boys.”
They leaned in silence, anxious for
	The tale told soft and low,
And then they joined in a big “HURRAH”
	FOR THE WOMAN IN THE SNOW!

But they never thought to cheer again
	For the hearts and deeds so good.
They lifted above the gifts of men,
	The soul of womanhood.
And they did not revel that day and night,
	As else they might have done;
For the hurried hours had fanned a light
	That guided everyone.
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Erda.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIAL.
	The Relief Society of the Leipzig branch,
Germany, on Monday gave a coffee (barley)
social in the L. D S. hall. Tables placed
around the room looked so dainty, with
their cream cloths, where the kuchen
(cakes) were heaped later on.
	This society was organized about three
months ago, and this the first event of a
social nature, was given on Reformation
Day, October 31st, which is a general holi-
day in Germany, commemorating the day
on which Martin Luther preferred his nine-
ty-five charges against the Catholic church
in 1517.
	It also partook of the nature of a fare-
well to President Charles J. Thomas, un-
der whom they were organized, and who
has been called to preside over the work in
another part of the vineyard.
	An interesting program was carried out
of speeches, recitations and songs.
	One sister composed a song of thankful-
ness for the organization of the society. A
brother set it to music and two sisters sang
it.
	Brother Kritchmar, in the name of all


present, expressed gratitude to President
Thomas and the writer for the organization
of the Society. While coffee and kuchen 
were being served, Herr Bertram, a pro-
fessional on the piano, sang some of his
own fine compositions. A trio was rendered
by three young sisters, and Sister May C.
Alder sang sweetly a couple of German
songs. Besides this two brothers and sis-
ters recited.
	The writer was asked to speak. Presi-
dent G. Alfred Alder interpreted to the 
Saints. Elder Thomas interpreted the 
Saints remarks to her.
	After the tables were cleared away some
games were indulged in, much to the enjoy- 
ment of young and old. A few dances
closed the festivities, and by 9 o’clock all
were happily wending their way home-
ward.
	The Society is doing well and enjoy their
labors. A few sick Saints claim their at-
tention and care. They are in a sound
financial condition, and are great workers.
President Gumtier was ably assisted by her
Counselors, Sisters Kretchmar, Loefler and
Lydia D. Alder.			L. D. A.


THANKSGIVING. 
	Thanksgiving is now considered by 
young and old to be one of the greatest 
and most glorious events of the entire year. 
It is a day on which we all seem to open 
our shut hearts freely, and try to make 
our homes cheerful and bright. As we all
know;

	“The heart has many passages 
Through which the feelings roam,
	But its middle aisle is sacred 
To the old, old home.”

	At the call of our beloved President with 
gladness and gratitude and in conformity 
with the beautiful custom of our national 
life, we pay the tithe of thankfulness to our 
Universal Father for His great mercy and
goodness.
	Custom has broadened the horizon of the 
day, and made it more than one of mere 
formal thanksgiving. We are all coming 
to see that gratitude to God does not con-
sist merely in prayer and psalm and song,
however beautiful and sincere they may be, 
but rather in that ministry to men out of 
the store of all which comes to bless our 
life, because we are the children of God. It 
is fit and proper that we should remember 
the mercies of the year. The great tide of 
goodness that has overflowed the shores of 
our humble life, the abundant prosperity 
that has rested upon all the land, the bless-
ing of home and friends and simple faith 
and love, should make an indelible impres-
sion upon every heart. Of course, our 
own lives with their perils and needs, their 
problems and burdens, their mercies and 
gentle providences, are our first thought, 
and should rightly be. Our homes should 
be shelters where life’s highest inspirations 
are given, a school where true training 
is imparted, that will develop men and
women; filling them with self-knowledge, 
reverence and self-control. 
				MRS. CANDLAND.


Nov. 9 was Founder’s Day at Mount
Holyoke College. The address was
given by President Slocum of Colorado Col-
lege, and the corner-stone of the new li-
brary was laid on that day.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St, Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
		RELIEF SOCIETY NOTICE.
	The Stake Secretaries of the Relief Society,
in the several stakes of Zion, also in mis-
sions and in branches of the Society not in-
cluded in stakes or missions, are hereby
notified to prepare complete annual reports,
statistical and financial, dating from January
1, 1904, to December 31, 1904, and forward
the same to the General Secretary, Tem-
pleton Building Salt Lake City, Utah, not
later than the middle of February, 1905.
	Wherever the Relief Society owns build-
ings, halls or granaries, it is desirable that
information should be made a separate item,
and how many in the stake, and in what
wards located; also any other important
facts that would be of interest to the gener-
al officers.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
				General Secretary.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 Main Street.


A teacher in a day school said to one of 
her pupils, “Now, Tommy, spell needle!”
Tommy: “N-e-i-d le. needle.” Teacher:
“That’s wrong! There’s no ‘i’ in needle.”
Tommy: Well, it isn’t a good needle
then!”


Mrs. Ednah D. Cheney was the guest of
honor at the annual reception of the New
England Women’s Club on Oct. 31, and
there was a large attendance of members
and guests. Mrs. Howe and Mrs. Cheney
were presented with bouquets of violets
tied with long purple ribbons. There was
no speaking, but plenty of fine music, and
sprays of pink roses adorned the busts of
Samuel E Sewall, Theodore Parker and
Michael Angelo. When Mrs. Howe, Mrs.
Cheney, and Mrs. Judith W. Smith got
their heads together for a few minutes, one
member whispered to another, “Where,
outside of the New Jerusalem, could you
see another group like that?”


Woman’s Exponent.

The ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 33					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY, 1905.						No. 7.


CONTENTS.
New Year’s Greeting.........................B. W. S.	49
Sketch of the Life of Elizabeth H. Hyde........	49
Mother’s Work—Snowflake Stake.................	51
Repentance Day.................................L. D. A.	51
R. S. Liberty Stake.........................................	51
General Relief Society Conference................	52
Musty Leaves, Brown with Age........E. B. W.	64
R S. Box Elder Stake......................................	55
The Doctrine and Covenants...............E. I. L.	55
Obiturary .......................................................	54
In Memoriam..................................................	55
EDITORIAL:—The New Year, 1905.............	52
	D. R. Society Meetings...........................	52
	Editorial Notes........................................	52
POETRY:—Twenty Years Ago.....E. R. Snow	49
	A Friendly Carol from Far Away...S.E R.	51
	Farewell to Forty-two..................L. D A.	51


TWENTY YEARS AGO.

WRITTEN BY REQUEST OF MRS. BATHSHEBA SMITH,
AND DEDICATED TO MRS. MARGARET F. SMOOT.

	Beneath the mountains crown’d with snow,
		With future prospects rife;
	The desert blossoms as the rose,
		And teems with joyous life. 
	Roll back the curtain of the past
		Where time’s swift changes flow,
	And take a retrospective cast
		Of twenty years ago.

	This, then was but a wild retreat,
		Where nature had no charms—
	Untrod by all but savage feet, 
		In most degraded forms.
	’Twas all a waste, a barren sod—
		A part of Mexico,
	Unsought by man—unblest of God 
		Till twenty years ago.

	In summer’s sunshine, crickets here,
		And snakes, their rights maintain’d;
	And o’er the winters, bleak and drear,
		Cold desolation reign’d. 
	Let fall the curtain—look and see
		The present bright tableau,
	Contrasted with the scenery
		Of twenty years ago.

	We’ve brav’d the desert’s trackless wilds— 
		We’ve tested untried soil,
	And here, a rich abundance smiles
		To compensate our toil.
	From bondage and oppression free—
		With friendship’s social flow
	We meet and chat with merry glee
		Of twenty years ago.

	The earth, its richest gifts bestows, 
		And plenty smiles around— 
	A sea of life among us flows--
		With love and beauty crown’d
	Thanks be to God the Holy One
		From whom all blessings flow,
	For what achievments we have won
		Since twenty years ago.
							E. R. SNOW.
G. S. L. City, July 24, 1867.


Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith General Presi-
dent of the Relief Society, has received
word that the Fifth Triennial of the Nat-
ional Council of Women of the United
States will open in Washington D. C.,
April 10th, 1905.


NEW YEAR’S GREETING.
READ AT THE JANUARY MEETING.
	I feel to extend to my sisters of the Relief
Society Board today wishes for a happy and
prosperous New Year.
	As president I can wish nothing better
for each and all of us than that we may
have the true Relief Society spirit.
	The true Relief Society spirit is to do
good to others.
	It has been said that ambitious women
would be found in our society.
	We build ourselves up surely, when we
administer to others.
	The Relief Society has no honors to con-
fer on members, except to offer a means by
which one may bless and comfort and pro-
vide for others.
	The position of an officer is in itself noth-
ing to a Relief Society worker; but what
she is able to do in that office is all to her
and to this society.
	If we live in simplicity and in truth and
love, naught can retard the work of our
hands in doing good. For even though
we offer little it will seem more.
	May we be able to work in harmony for
the advancement of the cause we are all in-
terested in.
	God bless you, and peace be with you.
			BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
	General President Relief Society.


[Column 1]
SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF ELIZABETH H.
				HYDE.
	I was born in the town of Holliston,
Middlesex Co. Massachusetts, on the 2nd
day of Oct. 1813. My parents were Joel
and Lucretia Morton Bullard, my grand-
mother’s maiden name on my mother’s side
was Esther Godard, she married Samuel
Morton, who with two other brothers came
from England to America when young
men and settled in Athol, Mass. My grand-
father served in the Revolutionary war. My
father was born and always lived in Hollis
ton, Mass, he was a well to do farmer did
not belong to any church, but was a whole-
souled generous kind of a man, he died at
the age of 55, leaving my mother with
seven children three sons, and four daught-
ers; her second son Lyman died previous to
my father’s death at the age of 18 years.
	My mother was one of the best of wo-
men kind and affectionate in her family,
and beloved by all who had the pleasure of
her acquaintance; she early taught her
children to love and fear God and to live
upright and honorable lives; she was a
member of the Congregational Church, I
was a subject of serious impressions from
my earliest recollection, would often go to
my chamber and pray that the Lord would
direct me how to obtain a change of heart
which I earnestly sought after, as the min-
isters told us we must obtain in order to be
saved; but they did not tell us how to ob-
tain it, (not knowing themselves), thus
proving themselves blind leaders of the
blind. I continued praying however until
felt that light had broken into my mind
and I thought I had obtained that, that I

[Column 2]
had been so anxiously seeking after, ac-
cordingly I manifested a wish to become a
member of the church to which most of our
family belonged; this was when I was 17
years of age, the form of receiving members
was by going into the front aisle of the
church facing the pulpit and the minister
would read from a book called the church
covenants. I have forgotton all but one
clause, which reads, “That denying all un-
godliness and every worldly lust we would
live soberly, righteously and Godly in this
present evil world,’’ Then we would bow
our heads as a token of assent, we then par-
took of the sacrament and belonged to the
church and were saved, no falling away
from grace. Those who belonged to the
church had their children sprinkled in in-
fancy, I was one of that number, (conse-
quently did not need sprinkling when join-
ing the Church) and if any died without
being baptized, as they called it, their doom
was to go where fire and brimstone were
abundant. I was either a pupil, or a teach-
er, in the Sabbath School in the church to
which I belonged, until I became connect-
ed with the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints.
	In 1833, I went to Amherst Female Sem-
inary, in company with Elizabeth Haven,
af[-]erwards Sister Israel Barlow. The
first elders that I saw were President Brig-
ham Young and his brother Joseph, being
relatives of our family they stopped at our
house a short time, and conversed upon the
subject of their belief and sang beautifully.
“Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation’’
etc., their visit left a very favorable impres-
sion upon our minds. The next elder that
came to our house was Willard Richards he
was also a relative of our family, and had
often visited us before his connection with
the church; he commenced talking with
me asking me if I believed the Bible? I
replied I did, he then asked me if I believed
in miracles and the gifts of the Gospel? I
replied no! they are all done away with
and no longer needed. He said, Oh! I
thought you didn’t believe in the Bible, he
then said some pretty hard things as I then
thought about the ministers, that they
preached for hire and divined for money
and were blind leaders of the blind, this ex-
asperated me, as I had always looked upon
the ministers as being very near perfect, I
thought if that is your religion I don’t want
to know anything more about it, he then
quoted a good many passages of scripture,
for me to ponder upon; which after he had
gone, I examined and found that they
really were in the Bible, that I professed to
be so sanguine in believing, I then resolved
to know for myself whether this strange
doctrine was of God or not, I did not feel
inclined to leave my pleasant home and the
many associates of my childhood and youth
upon uncertainties. I obtained the Book
of Mormon and read it through attentively
thinking if I could find anything in it con-
trary to the Bible I was safe. But alas; I
could find nothing to contradict it, but
rather to confirm it. I had faith in God
that if I would humble myself before Him
in an acceptable manner that He would


[Column 1]
manifest unto me the truth, I accordingly
spent many hours each day in my chamber
searching the scriptures, and asking in
earnest prayer, that if this was the work of
God, I might know it for myself, I had
been thus employed when I arose from my
knees and opened my Bible to the fiftieth
Psalm fifth verse which reads, “Gather my
Saints together unto me, those who have
made a covenant with me by sacrifice.”
These words were accompanied with the
Spirit of God to that degree that my heart
rejoiced, and I knew for myself that this
was indeed the work of God. I was then
ready for baptism, I was wi[-]ling even anx-
ious to leave my pleasant home where I
had spent so many happy days and gather
with the Saints of God. This rejoiced the
heart of my dear mother for she being a
true Israelite believed the work from the
first. We accordingly went forth and were
baptized on the 30th day of June, 1338, by
Elder Joseph Ball, and from that day to this
September 24, 1904, I have never for one
moment doubted this work, or regretted the
sacrifice (if it can be called a sacrifice) of
leaving friends and home I would here
remark that Deacon Haven one of the pil-
lars of the Church to which we belonged
with several others were baptized at the
same time we were some having left prev-
iously, so exasperated our Pastor the Rev.
Mr. Storrs that he became very bitter
against us, he called a Church meeting to
deal with us; as we had made a request to
leave the Church; as I said some had been
baptized without the knowledge of the
Church, and I thought it was very wrong
in them to leave without giving their rea
sons for so doing, and I made the remark
if I ever joined that sect (which I thought
I never should), I would give my reasons
for leaving and stating why, so after I was
baptized I wrote a whole sheet of foolscap
paper giving my reasons for leaving also
my belief, and requested Mr. Storrs to read
it in the Church meeting, which he com-
plied with but in such a mumbling way it
could be hardly understood, (however I ful-
filled my promise) Deacon Haven arose in
their meeting and gave his reasons for
leaving the Church. This Deacon Haven
is the father of Jesse Haven also father of
A. P. Rockwood’s first wife Sisters Palmer
and Barlow and R. T. Burton’s first wife,
his leaving was a great loss to the Church
and they felt it very sensibly.
	We bade adieu to friends and relatives
leaving two sisters with their families and
a brother behind, and four families of us
started for Nauvoo in the spring of 1841.
Our family consisted of my mother, two
brothers, my eldest sister and family and
myself, eleven of us in all. We arrived in
Nauvoo sometime in May, and moved into
a little log cabin, with one room, we found
the people very poor, as they had been
driven from their homes in Missouri by
ruthless mobs, and all of their property de-
stroyed; they had just commenced settling
Nauvoo; our home was near the river close
by Brother Rockwood’s. The first Sabbath
went to meeting (it was held in a grove)
I was an entire stranger and there was no
one near me that I had ever seen before,
there were several Elders on the stand,
some of them had spoken, when the Prophet
Joseph Smith arose, and commenced to
speak, a feeling like electricity passed
through my whole being, and I knew for
myself that he was a Prophet of God; my
mother rejoiced that she had been permitted
to gather with the Saints of God, but her

[Column 2]
stay with them was short, she took with
the chills and fever, so prevalent in Nau-
voo, and died the 1st day of August of the
same year 1841, at the age of sixty-seven
I was sick at the same time with chills and
fever therefore unable to render her any
assistance.
	On the 23rd of February I was married
to Wm. Hyde, by Heber C. Kimball, and
in March 31st of the same year my brother
Isaac Bullard was married to Mary Ann
Hyde, sister to my husband, and in Octob-
er following, my husband and brother were
called to go on a mission to Mass and New
Hampshire. My brother fell from the stag-
ing of a barn he was building and injured
his head, brain fever followed and he soon
died, he was buried by the side of our dear
mother, my husband went on his mission,
was absent eight months, during which
time our eldest daughter Jane Elizabeth
was born; he returned in June and in
September following started on another
mission to the state of Vermont, and was
absent at the time of the martyrdom of
Joseph and Hyrum Smith, he returned on
the sixth of August in company with the
twelve who were also absent at that time.
The mourning there was in Nauvoo when
the sad news reached us, that our beloved
Prophet and Patriarch had been murdered
in cold blood in Carthage Jail, while under
the promised protection of the state, baffles
all description; every heart was over flow-
ing with sorrow and grief for the inhuman
deed, and their innocent blood stained the
floor of the jail and could not be washed
off
	In January, 1845, my husband started on
another mission to Mississippi and Alabama
for the purpose of collecting tithing for the
temple, also for the purpose of getting men
to spend the summer in Nauvoo as the mob
were continually threatening us. My hus-
band was gone this time two months and
had good suceess. July 12th, 1845, a little
daughter Angeline Frances, was born to
me. December 23rd, we received our
anointings in the temple, we were sealed
in celestial marriage on the 19th of January,
1846, and on the 22nd we received further
blessings, work commenced in the temple
the 9th Dec. 1845 and ended about the 8th
of Feb. 1846, my husband assisting in the
work in the temple most of the time until
it closed; in the winter and spring of 1846
the Saints were driven from Nauvoo, our
beautiful city, made so by the arduous toil,
privation and hardships of the Saints.
	We left the city on the 18th of May, and
arrived at Council Bluffs on the 12th of
July, and on the 16th of the same month
my husband enlisted in the Mormon Batta-
lion and on the 20th took up the line of
march, leaving me with two small children,
and in a delicate state of health living in a
wagon in an Indian country.
	Late in the fall my husband’s father and
brother Rosel Hyde, had put up a log
cabin, one room each which we moved into
father and mother Hyde occuping one room,
and Rosel’s family consisting of himself and
wife with three children and my little fam
ily the other. On the 7th of Jan., 1847,
Wm. Jun was born, Bro. Rosel and famil
were very kind to me also father and moth-
er Hyde did all they could for my comfort.
My husband was absent one year and five
months during which time he with the rest
of the Battalion suffered very great hard-
ships and privations, traveling across barren
deserts without water and many times with-
out food enough to barely sustain life; he

[Column 3]
arrived home on the 12th of Dec., 1847,
with barely clothing enough on to be com-
fortable in summer time; on his return home
he with others were obliged to eat worn out
mules’ flesh which they eagerly devoured;
they came to a deserted Indian village
where they found rotted ears of corn which
they se[-]zed with the eagerness of starving
men. They cut leather from their saddles
and boiled up, to keep body and soul to-
gether; when they arrived home they were
literally starved, and as my husband express-
ed himself had suffered much from cold,
hunger, thirst and fatigue. In the spring
of 1848, father Hyde and family started for
the valley of Salt Lake, the twelve apostles
and their families also journeyed at the
same time.
	On the 23rd of Dec. 1848, Mary Lucretia
was born at Council Bluffs, Iowa. March
30th, 1849, Angeline Frances died, age 3
years and 8 months, she was buried at
Council Point, Iowa, four miles from Kanes-
ville, under a lone tree, this affliction seem-
ed almost more then I could endure; she
was of a very loving and sweet disposition.
In the spring of 1849 my husband and
brother Rosel with their families started for
Salt Lake valley. The companies were di-
vided into one hundred, fifty and ten,
Samuel Gully was captain of a fifty and
died on the plains on the 4th of July with
the cholera, several others of the company
died with the same disease. My husband
came very near going the same way. I sat
up with him many nights in my wagon,
fearing every night to be his last; my hus-
band was appointed to take brother Gully’s
place as captain of fifty, Livingston and
Kincaid merchants in Brother Gully’s com-
pany rendered me every assistance in their
power in my husband’s sickness, furnishing
me with medicine and lights, they said they
had lost one captain and didn’t want to lose
another; they had him ride in their carriage
until he got stronger, Sister Betsy Aldred
was with me, we traveled with ox teams.
	We arrived in Salt Lake on the 22nd day
of Sept., 1849, after being on the road be-
tween four and five months, after we ar-
rived in Salt Lake (not much of a city then)
my husband rented a room of Philo Johns-
ton in the 17th ward and went into the store
of Livingston and Kincaid, he afterwards
built a small adobie house in the 14th ward;
on the first of September, 1850, Sally Ald-
red was sealed to my husband, and on the
16[-]h of Oct. a little daughter was born to
me, we called her Ellen Maria. We remain-
ed in the city a short time when my hus-
band sold out, and we moved to Cottonwood
about twelve miles from the city. Here we
moved into a small house with no fl[-]or, we
remained here a short time, then obtained
an adobe house with two rooms, where we
remained some time, and where Sally’s sec-
ond child was born on the 5[-]h of July, 1852.
(the first dying at birth) in the fall of 1851.
My husband was called to go on a mission
to Australia. There he accomplished a
good work, but owing to poor health re-
turned in Oct. 1854, bringing over sixty
saints whom he had brought into the
Church; his health continuing so poorly,
President Brigham Young advised him to
move back to Salt Lake as he was not able
to work on a farm; I wish to state that
while my husband was on this mission we
received great kindness from Bro. Albert
Miles’ family, Bro. Boyce’s family, also Dr.
Lee’s and Milo Andrus, and in fact all the
neighbors for which we felt very grateful;
after moving back to Salt Lake we moved


into a log house formerly occupied by David
Grant, we soon after built a five roomed
house joining father Hyde’s lot, we did not
remain there long before he sold out to
Jesse Haven, and we moved to Lehi this
was in the spring, before the move south,
we remained there three years, during
which time my eldest daughter Jane E.
was married, to Elder Simpson Molen; in
the spring of 1860, Mr. Hyde, Mr. Molen,
and Mr. Griffeth moved north into Cache
Co. and located on a spot that was called
Hyde Park then a barren place, save sage
brush, they camped near a spring, lived in
wagons and dugouts until they could build
houses and from this little beginning it has
grown to be a thrifty town Mr. Hyde
was chosen Bishop and presided there un-
til his death which sad event occurred on
the second day of March, 1874 at the age
of fifty-five years and 6 months; he had
taken unto himself five wives, all good wo-
men; was the father of twenty-five children.
	Soon after my husband’s death, I went to
live in the family of my son in-law Simp-
son Molen, where I have lived with my
daughter Jane ever since, I have ever been
treated with the utmost kindness, for
which may the rich blessings of the Lord
rest upon all that pertains unto him is the
prayer of my heart.
						E. H. H.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A FRIENDLY CAROL FROM FAR AWAY.
Mrs. L. L. G. Richards,
	MY DEAR FRIEND:
Your “Branches” have reached me o’er mountain
		and dell,
The pleasure they give me my words cannot tell.
They bear to me fragrance from out the dim past,
Like the scent of sweet roses forever to last,
The first time I met you comes fresh to my mind,
Your smile was as sunshine, your greeting most
		kind,
In the little white house by dear City Creek’s
		stream—
It seems like remembrance of some pleasant
		dream.
I am feasting again on “my own mother’s bread,”
At our little square table with snowy cloth spread;
And oh! how I pity the girl or the boy,
Who has no such picture of “mother’s home joy.”
Many thanks, Lula dear, for remembrance kind;
In reading your book, such loved names I find,
That with old friends I live again past days and
		years,
Tiil my heart swells with fondness, my eyes dim
		with tears.
So many have passed to the "opposite side,”
And others are scattered so far and so wide!
But in Father’s own house with its grand spacious
		dome—
Oh, “the gathering in” at the great "Harvest
		Home!”
And, sister, if we are but faithful and true,
To the duties assigned us, we’ll enter there too;
And drink from the fountains so rich and so rife.
With “My Maggie,” and others, “The Waters of
		Life.”
Again dear old Christmas is venturing near,
Again is approaching the end of the year
May the holidays find our dear Utah friends
All well! is the greeting their sister “Hope” sends.
What more cheering words could my brief mess-
		age tell
Than to say, as I can in truth, “We are all well!”
One of God’s greatest blessings bestowed from
		above,
Is the gift of good, health.	Your sister in love.
						SARAH E. RUSSELL.	
Colonia Churichupa, Mexico Dec. 11, 1904.


FAREWELL TO FORTY-TWO ISLINGTON,
			LIVERPOOL.
	Oh, Forty-two! old Forty-two! 
		What mem’ries rise encircling you!
	Of Liverpool and days of yore.
		When first the Gospel reached that shore.
	Historic thou wilt ever be,
		By many loved far o’er the sea
	Oft missionaries came and went—
		With Gospel tidings they were sent.
	To all the world a change must come,
		The race of life some day be done.
	And then—home of the past art thou;
		No L. D. S, reside there now.
	Old crumbling walls, and creaking floor,
		Thy echoes we will hear no more.
	E’en Holly Road—pretentious, new.
		With trees and flowers bursts on the view.
	To lands afar these tidings sing,
		'Prepare. prepare for Christ the King;"
	In raiment fair shall Zion shine,
		O'[-]rspread by glorious love divine.
							LYDIA D. ALDER.


MOTHER’S WORK.
SNOWFLAKE STAKE.

	Lesson I. Are most punishments due to
mistaken methods, or neglect in the past?
	Lesson II. Is a punishment necessary?
and what is its object?
	Lesson III. What faults in the parents
often result in punishment for the child?
	Lesson IV. Which is the most import-
ant, the parlor or the room where the chil-
dren mainly live?
	Lesson V. How at the beginning of the
day may we become in harmony with every-
thing?
	Lesson VI. Have we a special duty to-
wards the naughty, and disagreeable child
and its mother in our neighborhood?
						Committee,
				AMANDA PETERSON,
				EMMA L. SMITH,
				ELSIE O. FLAKE.


LIBERTY STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of the Liberty Stake of Zion con-
vened in the Second Ward meeting house
December 3, 1904. President Annie S.
Musser presiding, Sister Margaret Caine of
the General Board being present. Opened
by singing, “Come let us anew.”. Prayer
by Sister Elizabeth Paul. Continued by
singing, “Glorious things of thee are
spoken.” Roll was called, and minutes of
previous confere[-]ce were read and accepted.
President Musser made a few opening re-
marks, welcoming the sisters and asking
the blessings of the Lord on all present.
	Favorable reports were then listened to
from all the wards in the stake, after which
Sister Martha Morris favored us with a
hymn.
	Counselor Eardley spoke for a short time
on woman suffrage.
	Sister Margaret A. Caine spoke on the
importance of understanding, and following
closely the legal requirements of the asso-
ciation, and devising ways to accumulate
means in order to take care of our poor;
also said that we were instructed to pro-
vide against the calamities that were to
come upon us by storing wheat and filling
our granaries.
	Adjourned until 2 o'clock by singing and
prayer.


Conference reconvened at 2 o’clock with
Counselor Annie T. Hyde and Ida S. Du-
senberry from the General Society, Treas-
urer C. S. Williams and Sister Margaret A.
Caine of the General Board on the stand.
After the usual exercises, singing, prayer,
minutes, etc., Counselor Hodgson presented
the names of the General Board, also the
names of the Stake Board, all were unani-
mously sustained.
	Sister C. S. Williams felt that the Lord
wou[-]d bless us in our efforts to help and re-
lieve suffering humanity, and we would
also obtain much happiness in so doing.
	Dr. Margaret Roberts related many inci-
dents that had come under her observation,
and urged the teachers to seek after the
Spirit of the Lord to guide them in their
work, also to get the young mothers to at-
tend Relief Soc[-]ety meetings.
	Sister Ida Dusenberry felt that in mak-
ing the sacrifices required of Relief Society
workers, it builds up the character, makes
better women of us, and brings us nearer
our Heavenly Father; told the mothers never
to deceive their children or tell them false-
hoods.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde thought we should
teach our children reverence for our meet-
inghouses, and to love those in authority,
let us love one another and keep the com-
mandments of God, made other sugges-
tions.
	Sister Caine said the bond between moth-
er and children should be very strong, and
let us cultivate the spirit of love in our
homes.
	Sister Webb urged the sisters to be faith-
ful in keeping the commandments of God.
	By unanimous vote the officers’ meeting
was adjourned until the first Saturday in Feb-
ruary. Conference adjourned by singing
“Doxology.” Benediction by Sister Mary
Mair.
			LIZZIE ROBBINS, Sec.


REPENTANCE DAY.
	The close of the religious year in Sax-
ony is commemorated by what is called
Repentance Day. This year it fell on Wed-
nesday, November 16th. On this day the
people repent of their sins, attend church,
where the minister preaches a sermon on
this subject, then they partake of the sacra-
ment.
	One service is held in the morning at 8
o’clock. The worshipers meet in the ves-
try room, but if there are too many for
that, they adjourn to the church. Here
they have singing, prayer, and the sermon.
At the close of the service, two ministers
stand before the people, one administering
the bread, the other the wine. The people
pass around, each one partaking, after the
usual prayer is said.
	In the evening the same program is
carried out, and then the religious year is
closed. It is a general holiday, and a fine
day. Every one is out, in the afternoon,
dressed in his best, walking with sweetheart
or family. Down by the river, on the hard,
white road that winds through the forest,
many are walking leisurely along, the
children playing by the way.
	In this part of Germany Luther’s doc-
trines still prevail, and the Reformed
church holds the balance of power.
				LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY, 1905


[Column 1]
		THE NEW YEAR, 1905.
It is cus[-]oma[-]y at the beg innin[]of a new
year to ma[-]e new resolves, [-]o cherish new
h pe of success to hold out to one’s frie[-]ds
greetings th[-]t have a salutary effect in
stimulating the purpo[-]es of life, that inspire
courage in those wh[-] are inclined to be less
hopeful in their outlook, a l these little
courtesies a[--] acts of kindness are helpful,
and one grows to expect these in erchanges
of neighborly and friendly sentiments, and
it is a sort of grace in life that has b come
so universal, that one looks for it and
would be unhappy, temporarily, if t were
not given. There is [-]o[-] too [-]uch love n
the world, there is not enough courtesy
among those who love each ot[-]er. To be
as gracious and polite in one’s own home
as in public places would add greatly to
home happiness, and give higher tone to
home atmosphere.
	Presents, even costly ones sometimes
give one unpleasant sensations, but kind
words and gentle manners are always
cha[]m ng [-]o the recipient If the Golden
Rule were written and hung in every home
where it could be read daily it might be a
sort of talisman
	In some of the ve[-]y old houses in Eng-
land, where the wooden [-]eams are exposed
there are still quaint inscription that strike
one on entering, and give the strange[-] who
glances upward a feeling of welcome w[-]th-
out words. In Croft House in Stratford on
Avon, on a heavy wooden beam directly in
front of t[-]e doorway are these words “Wel-
come All Ye Who Enter H[--]e.” This was
a fairly large room with a great open fire-
place, and suggests what was formerly
known in times gone by as the living
room.

	We have no[-] entered upon a new year
so to speak, and what it will bri[-]g to us as
a people, it would be hard to determine;
that great changes seem to be approaching
i[]the general acceptance; certainly we know
that perilous times have already come in
lands afar off if not nea[-] [-]ome; the terrible
war that is and has been raging is appall-
ing, to say the least. The record of fearful
crimes and of accidents by land and by sea
make one stand aghast with honor and
amazement.
	All that transpires however, is not
dreadful and though n[-]twithstanding cal-
amities [--]d wars there has been and still
will be, greater material progress than ever
before, the affairs of the world of mankind
are not at a stand still. Discoveries in

[Column 2]
sci nce, progress in art, advancement in e[-]-
ucation along all lines; and perhaps in the
matter of architecture in railroad an[]bridge
building the present generation has sur-
passed every other, although one should
except the pyramids and the ancient city of
Rome with its great amphitheatre.
	In civilization the greatest changes are
noticable and therefore the future outlook
is hopeful; to enumerate all the events that
show the status of a higher civilization
would be superflous, but one who has his
eyes open must see the great march of civil-
zation in the r[-]pid methods of travel, con-
necting all parts of h[-] world, so that one
ma almost s ep over as it were, from oue
country to another; and in the communica-
tion by telegraph and telephone, which
makes not only people but cou tri s famil[-]ar
with each other’s affairs. And these things
are now really a part of the daily lives of
mankind. Judging by th[-] great [-]dvance-
ment in the past one cannot tell what the
near futu[-]e may bring, but ab ve all [-]t is
devout[-]y to be wished it may bring peace
to the countries involved in war an[-] to our
homes in these mountain [-]ales, prosperity
and success, as well as an increase in all
that will t nd to the es abli hmen. of truth
and righteousness.


D. R. SOCIETY MEETINGS.
	The regular monthly meeting of the
Daughters of the Revolut[-]on was held on
Wednesday, Nov. 16, 1904, at the residence
of Mrs. Philo T. Farnsworth, Regent Phebe
Young Beatie in th[-] chair. Considerable
business was transacted, after which a
charming paper was given by Mrs. Clarissa
S. Williams, “Incidents of the Occupation
of Philadelphia by the British.” Mrs.
Clarissa Y. Spencer read an old Thanks-
giving Proclamation, very quaint and or-
iginal.
	The elegant parlor and library were
handsomely decorated with yellow chrysan-
themums and trailing evergreens and the
society colors of blue and buff daintly dis-
played, also flags and banners and historic
pictures of heroes and heroines of the Revo-
lutionary times were in evidence.
	There were a number of guests, Mesdames
Rhoda Lyman, Charlotte F. Richards, Jos.
S Richards, Mary Gowans, Louise Rich-
ards Farnsworth, May H. Larson and Jos.
A. West. The two last mentioned are
granddaughters of the late Capt Hunt, of
the famous Mormon Battalion and of Elder
Addison Pratt, the first Mormon misssonary
to the Society Islands.
	Refreshments, delicious and dainty,
were gracefully served to members and
guests by Mrs. Farnsworth’s pretty
daughters.


The D. R. meeting on December 16, the
anniversary of the Boston Tea Party was
held at the home of Mrs. Alice Merrill
Horne, Regent Phebe Y. Beatie presiding.
The parlors were artistically decorated with
the most charming variety of late autumn
flowers and leaves, and the cosy, home-
like appearance of the house was gratifyiug
to one’s sense of harmony. The greatest
care h d been taken in the preparation of
the paper, which was very evident in the,
reading of it, Mrs T. G. Webber, the writ-
er, gave it as none but one whose heart is
in the subject can read to an audience.
	The subject was one that is always
specially pleasing, “Paul Jones and the U.


S. Navy.” There were other pleasing
features of the meeting. The guests were
Mesdames Bathsheba W. Smith, Charlotte
F. Richards, and Nellie Druce Pugsley, one
of the sweetest singers in Utah, who favor-
ed the ladies with several favorite selections.
‘I have heard the mavis singing her love
song to the moon,” and others, this vocal
music was enjoyable and uplifting.
	The refreshments pass all description and
were declared by a majority of the company
to be the best that had been served by any
hostess of the society. The little daughter
of the hostess while assisting in serving
passed a dish of “tacks on tea,” creating no
little merriment, as well as reminding the
guests, who were thoroughly enjoying the
hot rolls and tempting luxuries, of the time
when the tax on tea became unbearable to
their foremothers more than one hundred
years before.


The January meeting, Monday l6, 1905,
was held in the Templeton at the society
headquarters, Regent Phebe Y. Beatie oc-
cupying the chair. The stars and stripes
were conspicuously displayed, and there
were a number of historic pictures. Mes-
dames Bathsheba W. Smith and Mary Gow-
ans were the only guests. After some busi-
ness had been attended to, Mrs. Carissa S.
Williams read the paper of the day, which
had been written by Mrs. Alice Merrill
Horne, (who could not be present) the topic
being Roger Williams, and many new points
in his character were bro[-]ght out and em-
phasized by the writer, giving to this great
and good man almost irresistible power in
dealing with the native Indian tribes. The
writer had dealt with the subject in a very
interesting and original manner, and the
ladies all felt that they had been instructed
as well as entertained.


EDITORAL NOTES:
	The anniversary of the birthday of Sister
Eliza R Snow was fittingly commemorated
by the Daughters of t[-]e Pioneers at their
regular meeting in January, at the residence
of Brother and Sister W B. Dougall. Re-
marks were made by the president, Alice
Merrill Horne, who gave her childish recol-
lections and interesting reminiscences were
given by President Bathsheba W. Smith, a
life-long companion, and by Sister Margar-
et P. Young, Phebe Y. Beatie, Edna E.
Smith and the writer.
	Susan B. Anthony’s birthday on the 15th
of February of this year will be a sort of
gala-day throughout the United States,
Societies and clubs have decided to celebrate;
and elaborate preparations are being made
to do honor to this champion of woman’s 
political equality and civil rights. Miss
Anthony eminently deserves the loyalty of
women for the stand she has taken and
maintained; she has had much adverse cri-
tism, but she has risen superior to it all, and
is today the centre of attraction in any com-
pany in America or Europe.


GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The October Conference of the General
Relief Society was held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall, Wednesday, October 5,
1904, commencing at 10 o’clock a. m.,
President Bathsheba W. Smith presiding.


[Column 1]
Meeting opened with singing, “Come, let
us anew.” Prayer was offered by Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards. Singing, “Now let
us rejoice in the day of salvation.”
	President B. W. Smith gave the sisters
an informal, sympathetic greeting, express-
ing her delight in seeing so many of the 
sisters present, and especially those from a
distance, knew how hard it was for them to
come so far, and hoped they would feel re-
paid; she loved the Relief Society and the
work the sisters were engaged in, there is
no better work in the Church, and we do
help the brethren, and the Lord blesses us
in our labors in what we have to do for the
sick and the afflicted; “may we increase in
love and have patience with each other, and
may we have strength to do all that is re-
quired of us.”
	Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde was so re-
joiced to see so many assembled and felt
she knew them all; it was like seeing mem-
bers of her own family; “these sisters are
so self-sacrificing and work so hard to do
what is necessary to promote the work of
the Society. The nurses work is doing
so much good;” and she hoped to see the
time when every young girl would have
this work included in her education for
motherhood, and she felt also that the moth-
er’s work in the society was helping all to
progress and improve; “this is a day of
progress and not a station where we stand
still.” She thought we should “mother”
the Mutual and Primary and we ahould
look after them and be one with them.
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry felt
when she drew near to the audience she
seemed much better acquainted with the
sisters, and with those who come from a
distance, thought we should try to get
near to each other. She had been request-
ed to report some of her experiences while
away, and so forth, she had enjoyed visit-
ing the Relief Society and meeting the
Saints, had been in Chicago recently and
visited the Relief Society there, held a
meeting with the sisters before the regular
Sunday evening meeting; also in New York
in the meeting of the Relief Society, had an
excellent time there, she had never felt a
better spirit; said in Zurich, in Switzerland
there is an excellent young woman mis-
sionary, very faithful and energetic and also
in Berlin; there the sisters have a good Re-
lief Society the hall where they meet is
poor and not very large, but every seat was
filled and it was an interesting meeting, the
good spirit was manifest, and it was most
enjoyable. “I pray that we may have the
spirit of love and humility and be blest in
our labors that we may live near our Creat-
or and do what is right.”
	Stake reports were called for, beginning
with those far-off. President Mary L.
Woolf, of Cardston, gave an excellent,
though brief report of Alberta and Taylor
stakes; referred to the prosperity of the set-
tlements, in Canada and mentioned the new
wards farther north, Calvary, and Edmon-
ton, they had visited recently, all the or-
ganizations in Canada were in good condi-
tion.
	Counselor Mary A. Bagley reported Bear
Lake Stake, the society had recently built
two new houses and all was prosperous, re-
ferred to the aged president, Sister Julia P.
Lindsay, a veteran in the Church; over 80
years of age; she still visited the branches
in the Stake and attended to her duties in
the society.
	President C. C. Shepherd represented

[Column 2]
Beaver, was proud to mention they had a
granary in such ward and were doing good
work in other respects.
	Miss Emma Ramsey, one of the sweet
singers of Zion, favored the conference with
a solo, “Fear Not Ye For Israel,” Elder
Tracy Y. Cannon accompanying her upon
the organ. The music was greatly appre-
ciated by all present.
	St. Joseph Stake was represented by
Sister Sarah T. B. Folley, she felt the soci-
ety work was making great progress in that
far away locality.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, of St.
George, made an eloquent address upon
practical matters, and zealously exhorted
the sisters to diligence and faithfulness.
	Cassia Stake was represented by Counsel-
or to Sister Haight, who gave a good re-
port of actual conditions.
	Counselor Mary A. Rich reported Fre-
mont Stake, spoke specially of the amount
of grain on hand in good condition.
	Sister Emma Wright, recently home from
New Zealand, gave an exceedingly interest-
ing account of the Relief Society work in
that far off land, she felt this work had
been a great blessing to the native sisters.
	Sister Lexia Harris from the City of Mex-
ico outlined the Relief Society work in that
far-famed city and suburbs, which was most
entertaining and encouraging, when one
realizes how far-reaching aud uplifting this
benevolent work is among the sisters in
whatever part of the world it is commenced.
	President Julia A. Richards of Malad
Stake spoke well of her labors and the great
desire the sisters had to improve in good
works, referred particularly to the Lamanite
sisters and the improvement among them
and their advancement in the organization.
	Maria Makaula spoke in the Hawaiian
language of the society at Iosepa and Sister
Julina L. Smith interpreted what she had
reported to the conference. The native sis-
ters in the Hawaiian colony were striving
in the same kind of charitable work as the
other sisters who had been more accustomed
to assist the poor and the sick.
	Conference adjourned until 2 p. m. by
singing Doxology, and benediction was
offered by Sister Maria Y. Dougall.
	Afternoon session, President Bathsheba
W. Smith presiding.
	Prof. C. J. Thomas and members of the
Temple choir were present and had charge
of the musical exercises.
	Conference opened with singing “Praise
to the man who communed with Jehovah,”
prayer by Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon, sing-
ing, “How blest was the day when the
Prophet and Seer.”
	President B. W. Smith made a few open-
ing remarks, welcoming the large audience,
and expressing her pleasure that so many
were present, and announced the Treasurer
of the General Society, Sister Clarissa S.
Williams, who in a few well-chosen words
also expressed the great pleasure it gave her
to see such a numerous congregation of the
women of the Latter day Saints, after which
she read the annual report of the 17th of
March donations and the disbursements,
and then stated the amount on hand for the
Woman’s Building.
	Sister E. B. Wells moved that the report
as read be accepted, seconded by Sister
Julina L. Smith, and Sister Susan Grant
and carried unanimously.
	The Temple choir then rendered the
beautiful hymn, “O, Jesus, the Giver of all
we enjoy.”

[Column 3]
	Reports were then given from San Juan
Stake by President Mary N. Jones and from
Mexico Juarez Stake by Sister Elizabeth
Snow Ivins, both gave excellent accounts of
the work in the respective localities, that
were of great interest to those present.
	The choir sang Sister Emily H. Wood-
mansee’s hymn, “Daughters of Zi[-]n, the
Friends of the Poor.”
	Sister Alice Merrill Horne gave a brief
sketch of her trip abroad and of the Quin-
quennial of the International Council and
Congress in Berlin she felt it a great privil-
ege to be at home after traveling 14,000
miles by land and sea; she testified that
there were many honest people in the world
yet, and that we should get rid of the idea
that they hate us, she stated that before go-
ing away she had been blessed by all the
General offieers of the Relief Society and by
Apostles George A. Smith and Rudger
Clawson, she realized the promises made to
her. She went direct from here to Boston
and attended the annual meeting of the
Daughters of the Revolution to which she
had been appointed a Delegate and Proxie
for the Regent of the Utah Society. She
had been nominated to speak at the Con-
gress in Berlin and was glad she arrived
early; when she first reached there she
called upon the President, Mrs. May
Wright Sewall, and found her very pleas-
ant and was invited to the first entertain-
ment given by her, a breakfast, previous to
the opening of the Council, where she met
the most prominent women, and was subse-
quently invited by Mrs. Commandes to
take a ride in the Their Gardens; she was
invited to speak twice in the Congress, once
upon the Legislature, and she was one of
the few who could be heard in the large
hall; she only took the time given her;
those women are greatly interested in the
franchise, and anxious to learn of those who
enjoy these rights. The Baroness Von
Beswitch and Frau Maria Stritt had been
greatly interested that she had not only
voted, but been voted for; she also addressed
a large audience on Art, and among the
number present were artists, musicians and
poets, everywhere she was well received and
women were desirous of talking with her
and asking questions; she visited Paris and
the art galleries there, and many other cities
aud traveled almost continuously; in Zur-
ich she visited the Saints and missionaries
who were very much delighted to do all in
their power for her pleasure and on her re-
turn was invited by the Saints in New York
and attended meeting there; she had en-
joyed it all very much aud was glad to be
at home again.
	Sister Emily S. Richards, addressing the
conference said, she and Sister Dusenberry
sailed for Antwerp and on arriving went to
see the very quaint old Dutch town, saw
many grand old pictures, these fine old pic-
tures by the great Masters are everywhere
and especially those of the Savior are con-
spicuous, they were so wonderful and in all
the art galleries that one felt a sensation of 
solemnity, she enjoyed seeing and associat-
ing with the missionaries very much, had a
fine meeting in Zurich on the 4th of July;
it was a treat; Sister Dusenberry made the
boys a strawberry short cake that pleased
them very much. Sister Richards spoke of
the “Sacred Stairs,” crowds of people cling-
ing to them as they go up, and they be-
lieve if they do this their sins will be for-
given; Church of Maternity where chil-
dren are held up to kiss the toe of the vir-


gin, it is pitiful to see the women who are
so ignorant of the truth, she co[--]d not re-
peat all she saw; stated they had no serious
difficulty, were always treated with respect
and kindness.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp. Sisters Carrie S
Thomas, Maiy A. C. Lambert and Pris-
cilla Smith each spoke a few minutes on the
benefits of the Relief Society, and the bless-
ing attending those who labored therein.
	President Ann Walker reported Black-
foot Stake, the good work being done and
the interest taken in storing grain.
	President Alvira E. Steele, Bingham
Stake, she bad gone up there nineteen years
ago, when the country was new, reported it
was a good grain country, she scarcely
knew what could have been done if they
had not had the Relief Sceiety.
	President Celestia Y. Pack, Summit
Stake gave a definite report of the wards in
that locality, and the work done by the so-
ciety, the sisters there had been studying
the Women ot the Bible and it had been
quite satisfactory.
	Secretary E. B Wells made announce-
ments of meetings to be held, officers’
meetings, Peace meeting, Woman’s Council,
Primary, etc.
	Choir sang “Only a beam of sunshine,”
conference adjourned for six months, clos-
ing prayer by Sister Mary T Smith.
		E. B. WELLS, General Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MUSTY LEAVES, BROWN WITH AGE.
Continued from January <December> Number.
	In a few days loneliness and gloom set-
tled down upon the Windeyer home, A
little mound in the churchyard was all that
remained to the parents of the frail child so
beloved, There was no word from Ed-
ward, and none from his young wife and
babe. Aunt Matilda stayed on to relieve
Mrs. Windeyer of household cares and
comfort her in her great affliction. Christ-
mas was drawing nigh, and she realized
how hard it would be for them all, remem-
bering that joyful Christmas a quarter of a 
century ago when Edward was born.
	Mr. Windeyer plunged deep into business
affairs, trying to drown his sorrow, but alas!
that was impossible.
	Years went by, and but few changes
came. Margaret lived on alone with the
little Ruth, who grew up a beautiful girl.
Some letters had come from Edward, tell-
ing of adventures and extended voyages;
but as he sailed from place to place, stop-
ping only at seaport towns, the tender
epistles of his faithful and devoted wife
never reached him He began to despair,
and at last concluded to write to his mother
for news of his wife and child. The mes-
sage never reached his wife, so unforgiving
was this proud, haughty woman Long
years afterwards, when little Ruth was
grown to womanhood and Margaret had by
her writing made for herself an honored
name, though a fictitious one, Fanny Hil-
lier, ever faithful to the family, learned
that Edward was dead, and she determined
to unravel the secret and see that justice
was done to the wife and child. Through
old Dr. Gray she heard that family trouble
had wrought so upon the Square that he
had not been himself for some time previ-
ous to his demise
	Fanny succeeded in winning the confid-
ence of Miss Gordon (Aunt Matilda), now
about in her dotage, and learned the par-
ticulars, and felt in duty bound to carry

[Column 2]
the sad news to Margaret and Ruth, un-
pleasant as she knew it would be. Yet
sorrow had chastened the younger Mrs
Windeyer, so that Fanny real[-]zed she would
bear up bravely under this crushing blow.
She had longed, and hoped, and waited
through all the years that had come and
gone for the lover whose fidelity she had
trusted always. Her grandmother had
been laid away in the grave, and her home
was a lonely one; but she possessed a cour-
age that had strenthened with her years,
and for Ruth’s sake she must be cheerful.
	It was Christmas eve again in Merton,
and the usual festivities were in progress.
Fanny’s sister, Carrie, came home with half
a dozen children to see the folks, and there
was sure to be a happy party, for Mrs. Hil-
lier and her husband were still hale and
hearty; and Janet Cousins, now a widow,
was invited to join them at Christmas din-
ner; and Lizzie her daughter, once lady’s
maid to Mrs. Windeyer, was invited too,
with her crowd of little ones and husband
(she had married well), while Fanny Hil-
lier, still single, was the good genius and
more than a mother to them all. It was
Fanny to whom they came to unburden
their griefs and cares, and she had a kind
word and comfort, a “balm of Gilead,’’
for all her friends. Fanny felt now was
her opportunity to leave home and go to
the dear lonely Margaret and tell her the
sad story—duty was always before pleasure
with this grand woman. Her mother pro-
tested, and declared she had giver her life
a sacrifice to the love that was flung back
upon her so long ago. Fanny heeded not
the sarcasm, but started forthwith in a
night coach for Easton, arriving on the
Christmas eve.
	As soon as the affectionate greetings were
over, Margaret said, “My Ruth has had
strange forebodings and peculiar dreams.
I hope your coming is in fulfillment. I feel
myself that something must be pending,
and I dread any great change. My grand-
ma’s death, though sad for us, has left me
independent, and I am going to take a long
rest—perhaps go out to India. I fancy
some way that Edward is there. Why do
you sigh—surely no news of him, or you
would have written?'’ Fanny knew not
how to tell the story she had come to un-
fold. Margaret saw it instinctively in the
expression of her countenance, and quickly
said, “Is the news you bring good or ill?
I can bear almost anything now, but for
Ruth, she is so happy.’’
	Trembling with suppressed excitement,
Fanny answered, “I have a very import-
ant message. Ruth’s grandfather is dead,
and she is the only heir to Squire Winde-
yer’s wealth—he died without a will.’’
	Margaret could not speak at first, but
soon collected her thoughts..
	“The only heir, you say then what of
Edward?’’ she groaned aloud; “he cannot
be dead!’’
	"Yes, Margaret, he is dead, in far away
Bombay. On Christmas eve, a year ago,
they buried him. So young to die and
you still hoping on, and teaching Ruth to
love him!’’
	O Fanny, I will not believe it until I
have the pr[-]of! My baby’s father dead,
and we not know it—so strong, and. we so
frail. And I have waited for his coming
through all these long, dreary years! How
shall I tell Ruth? Tell me, Fanny, what
shall I do?’’
	“A sad Christmas, indeed, for you and
darling Ruth; but life itself is sad, and full

[Column 3]
of mysteries we cannot comprehend; but
there are true hearts and noble souls, and
you, dear Margaret, have proved one among
a thousand.’’
	“Stay with me, Fanny, with me and
Ruth; we need you most. You loved his
father—I know it all now. It has come to
me little by little, as I have watched you
and thought of your unselfish devotion.’’
	Just then Ruth burst into the room, her
golden curls and fair brow, so like her father.
“Oh, how lovely! Aunt Fanny here. I
dreamed of her last night, that she brought
us precious jewels, so dazzling and brilliant
that our eyes were blinded with tears, and
when we opened them again, the casket of
jewels held only pale ashes.”
	“It is true, my darling—your dream is
tiue. Ashes to ashes! Our jewels of love
and memory have turned to ashes, and
Fanny brings us today, instead of ‘Peace on
Earth,’ peace to his ashes far away—your
father sleeps in fair Bombay.”
	Ere another year bad rolled around, the
Windeyer estate was settled, and Fanny,
Margaret and Ruth sailed for India, and
on the next Christmas day they knelt to-
gether at Edward's grave, strew[-]ng it with
flowers.
	“One day I searched an ancient cabinet
		And foun[-] a musty book—I have it yet
	A journal of the good year twenty-nine.
		Kept by a long-departed friend of mine:
	And from its leaves, grown brown with age,
		I take a story and a single page.
 
			“Wait! Wait! Love, I come,
				Bless this dear day
			That brings from far away Bombay—
				These words to thee I say,
			Wait, love, I come. ,
			In flowery, far away Bombay,
			Died in December, twentieth day.”
									E. B. W.


OBITUARY.
	It is painful to record the death of a dear friend
at all times, but when one has lived out the full
time we cannot mourn as we would if the life
were in its morning or noon day season. Sister
Amanda Ellen Hollinghead Smith was born July
27th, 1838, was the daughter of Isaac and Mercy
Wilcox Hollinghead, but at the age of two weeks
was given to Sister Dicy Perkins who was the only
mother she ever knew, her own mother having
died at her birth. On July 29, 1857, she was mar-
ried to William L. Smith of Farmington, Utah.
In 1846 they were called as pioneers to settle in
the Muddy. Some years later they again returned
to Farmington, after this they moved to Idaho.
On July 1st, 1890, her husband was taken by death
which was a severe trial to her. She came with
her children to Canada in 1893 enduring many
hardships and trials, but still trusting in her
heavenly Father and remaining steadfast to the
principles she had embraced, she has been a mem-
ber of this ward (Magrath) for two years. On Aug.
1st, 1903, she met with a fatal accident in dislo-
cating her hip which caused her death in the Galt
Hospital at Lethbridge, Canada—Sept. 21st, 1903.
In her earlier days she was an active worker as
teacher in the Relief Society. She was of great
faith even to her last moments, and passed peace-
fully away. She is the mother of eight children,
five sons and one daughter survive her. She has
a number of grand-children, and several great-
grand-children. Her oldest son Jesse is now on a
mission to the Eastern States. She was a kind
mother, a true Latter-day Saint, and a good friend
always. The funeral was held in the meeting
house at 2 p. m. Friday, Sept. 25th, 1903.
	Resolved, that we the members of the Magrath
Relief Society extend our heart felt sympathy to
the family in this their hour of sorrow. That we
ever cherish her memory and regard her virtues
as worthy of emulation. That a copy of this be
presented to the bereaved family, one be placed on
the record of the Relief Society and one be sent to
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
		O Lord! responsive to thy call.
		In life or death whate’er befall.
		Our hopes for bliss on thee depend,
		Thou art our everlasting friend.
				MARY P. W. FLETCHER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


IN MEMORIAM.

ABBIE CRAM HAVEN.
	Sister Haven, who recently passed to the other
side,” was born July 14, 1825, in Stoddard, New
Hampshire, and of New England Puritan parent-
age. She embraced the Gospel and was baptized
into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints about 1844, and came west to Salt Lake
City in 1860, arriving about the middle of October,
and married Elder Haven soon after. They lived
in Salt Lake City a number of years, then moved
to Morgan county, being one of the first families
to settle there in a place that is now known as
Peterson.
	Sister Haven was always a member of the Re-
lief Society of Peterson, from its first organization
in that ward, and was treasurer for many years,
faithful and true to her duties in that important
office; indeed, she was a thorough Latter-day
Saint in her every-day life—her religion always
first; a woman of strong character, sterling integ-
rity and devotion to principle.
	Sister Haven had one son, Jesse, named for
his father. This young man died some years ago.
leaving two children, a son and daughter—their
grandchildren, and at the time of her demise there
were five great-grandchildren; to all these dear
ones she was fondly attached, and they were very
dear to her. Sister Haven, also raised two moth-
erless children (a girl and a boy) to manhood and
womanhood. They have greatly appreciated her
kindness, and have been kind to her in return.
	Sister Haven departed this life Sunday, Decem-
ber 11 1904, the cause of her decease was pnuemo-
nia. She leaves an aged husband, who deeply
mourns his great loss he has been blind for sev-
eral years, and she has been his constant solace
and attendant. In March next he will be ninety
years of age.
	The remains of Sister Haven were brought to
this city and she was buried in the Salt Lake City
cemetery, She was a noble woman, industrious
and a fine housewife and homemaker; beloved by
all who knew her for her sterling qualities of head
and heart. Our Father in heaven bless the aged
husband and all their posterity and increase them
in the land.
	Sister Haven has one sister living in this city.
now over eighty years of age widely known and
well beloved, Relief C. Atwood; wife of the late
Bishop Millen Atwood, of tke Thirteenth ward.
May her heart be comforted in the loss of her
only sister, and may the Holy Spirit comfort those
bereft, and may they feel in their hearts,
		“She is not dead, but sleepeth.”
								COM.


IN MEMORIAM.
	In memory of Sister Elizebeth Risie who de-
parted from this life July 12, 1904, at her home in
Magrath, Canada. She gave birth to twin boys
on the 10th inst., and her family and friends
hoped she would recover but she gradually grew
weaker, and passed away two days later, leaving
a husband and twelve children, the youngest one
the surviving twin two days old; and a host of
friends who mourn her untimely departure. She
maintained the record for good works that she had
made before coming to this land. She was one of
the presiding teachers in tbe Relief Society of this
ward, which position she held at the time of her
death. She was faithful in the discharge of her
duties and her sympathy was always with the sick,
poor and needy, her house was always ready and
open to any and all friends. She was a true Lat-
ter-day Saint in word and deed. She was born
Sept. 14th, 1862; much could be said of a high-
minded character like her. We all learned to love
her and feel the loss of our dear Sister; those who
knew her best loved her most.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father has called her to
a higher sphere therefore be it,
	Resolved that we extend our sympathy to the be-
reaved husband and children and cherish her
memory and strive to emulate her noble character.
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
sent to her family, also to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT
for publication, and be placed upon the records of
the Magrath Ward Relief Society.
		Gone from the home of earth,
		Followed by deepest love,
		To taste of the higher birth—
		To dwell in the courts above.
						MARY P W. FLETCHER,
						ELEANOR KIMBALL.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.

			BOX ELDER.
	The Relief Society Conference of the Box
Elder Stake convened in the Tabernacle,
Brigham City, Dec. 13, 1904. On the stand
were the stake officers and Stake President
Charles Kelly. President Susannah P.
Booth, presiding.
	Singing, “We thank thee, O God for a
Prophet.”
	Opening prayer by President Charles
Kelly.
	Singing, “Now let us rejoice in the day
of salvation.”
	President Booth was pleased to meet
again with the sisters in conference. Felt
the Lord would bless us. Prest. Annie C.
Jensen of Mantua society reported. Prest.
Hannah Harper reported North Ward.
Prest. Annie C. Johnson of First Ward,
Brigham City. Sister Grover reported the
Garland society. Prest. Sarah Fridal re-
ported Bear River City. Sister Thompson
reported the Elwood society. Emma Lee,
president of the Third Ward, Brigham City,
reported.
	The hymn, “Glorious things are sung of
Zion,” was sung by the congregation.
	Mary E. Ward, president of Willard, re-
ported. Sister Lizzie Wright reported the
Fourth Ward. All the reports were favor-
able and denoted a spirit of love and har-
mony.
	Sister Emma Pratt reported the Scandi-
navian society. They go around and visit
the elderly and sick people and encourage
them by singing the hymns and leaving
them a little money to help them; knew the
Lord helped and blessed them in their work,
and they appreciated His blessings to them.
	Prest. Booth made a few remarks and the
meeting was adjourned until 2 p. m.
	Singing, “Guide us, O thou great Je-
hovah.” Benediction by Counselor Emilia
D. Madsen.

	2 p. m.—On the stand were Stake Presi-
dent Kelly and his Counselor L. Snow. Bish-
op Grover and Bishop Larsen of Garland and
East Garland, and Stake Relief Society
officers. Prest. Booth presiding.
	Singing, “The sun that declines,” etc.
	Opening prayer by Counselor Lucius
Snow.
	Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s sinc[-]re de-
sire” Roll call and minutes read, etc.
	The officers of the General Board, also
stake officers were unanimously sustained.
	Prest. Booth felt pleased to meet with
the sisters, felt to mention the absence of
Counselor Peters, who was detained at
home on account of sickness. She and her
counselors had visited every society in the
Box Elder Stake, and were going to organ-
ize the East Garland Relief Society on the
following Saturday. She took great pleas-
ure in visiting the sisters, felt we were en-
gaged in a grand and glorious work. Spoke
upon the storing of grain, and the great
responsibility President Young had placed
upon the sisters, thanked the sisters for the
interest they were taking in storing grain.
Represented Park Valley society; spoke of
sickness and death in some of the settle-
ments; was p[-]eased to have the brethren
visit with them; felt they were interested
with us. Asked the blessing of the Lord
upon the people.
	Sister Rohwer represented the Second
Ward, Brigham City. Sister Young re-
ported the Perry society. They had had

[Column 2]
considerable sickness and several deaths in
their ward.
	Counselor Emelia D. Madsen talked most-
ly to the teachers; spoke of the duties of
the teachers, thought as a rule, they did not
take time enough to visit with the people;
thought if more time was spent in visiting,
they could better find out the true condition
of things; encouraged them to look well
after the sick, and the wants of the poor,
said we should use every effort to try and
get the sisters into our society; said we
should be big-hearted and not narrow-
minded. Let us be true m thers to those
in need.
	Bishop Grover of Garland had been deep-
ly interested in the reports and instructions
given, thought how beautiful the organiza-
tion of this Church was; spoke of the good
the Relief Society was doing, related an
ncident which happened in their ward,
where the Relief Society was appreciated;
said if they would ask the assistance of the
Lord, they would have joy in their labors.
	Bishop Larsen of East Garland had been
edified in listening to the reports and in-
structions given; felt the Spirit of the Lord
was with us, had been interested in the talk
in relation to the teachers and their calling,
said the sisters who were filled with the
Spirit of the Lord always carried a good
influence with them; felt to ask the Lord
to bless the sisters in their patience and
good works.
	Prest. Kelly was pleased to be able to at-
tend this conference; wondered why there
were not more present; felt an extra effort
should be put forth to attend conferences as
they were business meetings; had been
very much interested in the reports given
today, said the Relief Society was a very
important organization, the Lord had sanc-
tified the labors of the sisters in the great
amount of good they were doing, he appre-
preciated the labors of the Relief Society
in this stake and asked God to bless them.
	Prest. L. Snow felt very much impressed
in this meeting, thought that there were
unseen beings here if our eyes could only
be open to see them. Spoke on the storing
of grain, and referred to prophecies given
by President Young, felt the sisters were a
great help, and asked the blessing of the
Lord upon all.
	Prest. Booth made closing remarks and
said a few words on the Mother’s Work.
	Singing Doxology. Benediction by Bishop
Grover.
		Cor. Sec’y. Lettie G. Fosgreen.


THE DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS.
	(A plea for it in the home.)
EDITH IVINS LAMOREAUX.
	While so much is being said and written
in favor o[-] the Doctrine and Covenants as
an aid in the study of the Gospel among our
young people, both in Sunday Schools and
Mutual improvement Associations, as well
as in the different quorums of the Priest-
hood, I wish to make a plea for it in the
home—in the hands of the mother.
	To some mothers this may seem a difficult
task and of little use, as many of us have
felt heretofore that the book is beyond our
comprehension and never intended for our
use. But an interested attempt at study of
its contents has made it appear in a far dif-
ferent light to me. The inspiration to take
up this line of work is due largely to the
influence of the splendid talks I have heard
given in its favor by those who have made


[Column 1]
an exhaustive study of it, and to the lec-
tures given in the Young Woman's Journal
as used in the Y. L. M. I. A. throughout
the Church.
	If I should borrow their ideas too much,
my only excuse is that they are a little bet-
ter than any I have yet heard or read, and
still the mothers whom I wish to reach do
not often come in contact with those who
are now pushing forward this grand move-
ment, nor the work itself as taken up in
the different organizations
AS TO THE BOOK ITSELF AND ITS MISSION.
	Its fly leaf tells us it contains the revela-
tions given to Joseph Smith for the building
up of the kingdom of God in the last days.
Surely if you and I as mothers in Israel ex-
pect to help build up the kingdom we need
these instructions—revelations—as much
as any one.
	The idea that the book is only for the
wise heads and those holding the Priest-
hood, being too strong food for women or
the young, is an old prejudicial one, which
is fast being removed by our young people
themselves.
	“Its mission is to reveal the mind and will
of our Father in answer to questions which
arose from time to time in the Church, and
to explain other doctrines as the Lord saw
that they were needful for the Church.” Its
teachings too are fitted for our daily lives
now if we will but seek to find them.
	On one occasion I heard an enthusiast on
this work say, “It is especially adapted for
women, because the nature of woman is
such as to enable her to fathom the truths
contained therein.”
	But, says the mother, how shall I go to
work to study it, to find what there is in it
for me?
	The very fact that parents use it so little
in the home proves that they have not yet
realized the value in enabling them to train
up their children before God. Various sug-
gestions as to the study of it are given in
the Outlines for both Sunday School and
Mutual Improvement work, as well as a
splendid article on the subject in the Nov.
number of the Improvement Era by Dr.
John Widtsoe.
	The mother, if deeply interested as to
how to become really acquainted with the
book will find all she needs here, choosing
for herself that which seems most suitable.
As far myself, not always having with me
the references which classify the subjects in
topical form, and not finding it interesting
to read the book page by page, I have found
great joy in studying it in connection with
the life ot the Prophet Joseph Smith as writ-
ten by himself in the old bound volumes of
the Millennial Star, beginning with Vol.
xiv. It is also found in the new Church
History.
	In reading this way I have found the
reason why, and the circumstances under
which each revelation was given. We find
too that the Lord did not tell Joseph all
concerning one principle at once, but gave
knowledge as we as a people were able to
receive it

[Column 2]
	While many of the revelations seem to be
given expressly for the edification or chas-
tisement of individuals, they nearly all con-
tain advice equally applicable to us in our
day if we but read with the spirit.
	For those who hunger for light on the
glorious principles of the Gospel and desire
an increase of faith in God, no better treat-
ise is given than in this holy book. Truly
in these days we need to understand the
signs of the second coming of our Lord and
the preparation necessary for us to meet
and dwell with Him, all of which is more
fully given here than anywhere, and so
simple as to be easily explained to our chil-
dren, who really hunger after these things.
	What child among us would not prefer to
give an intelligent reason (having learned it
from mother) why they are baptized into
the Church, and on the exact age of eight
years—that our Father revealed it to the
Prophet Joseph Smith in Hyrum, Ohio, in
1831, one year after the Church was or-
ganized (Read sec. 68). And to parents he
says at that lime if they do not do their
duty iu this regard the sin will rest upon
their heads.
	Since our reverence for holy things in-
creases as our interest is awakened in them,
so, too, will the child as it older grows have
increased reverence for the sacrament if
taught by mother of its institution by Christ
and again revealed to Joseph Smith in our
day, and the reason given why we use
water now instead of wine, as in the Sav-
ior’s time. In the Millennial Star, Vol. XIV,
page 37, Joseph tells us that while on his
way once to procure some wine that him-
self and some others might partake of the
sacrament, he was met by a heavenly mes-
senger who told him not to use wine unless
it was made by or among themselves. (Sec-
tion 27, first four verses only were given at
that time) He accordingly went back and
they made their own wine, partook of the
sacrament, after which the evening was
spent in a most glorious manner praising
God. I mention these as illustrative of
much that Is interesting matter for our chil-
dren.
	Section 121 given while the Prophet was
in Liberty jail is full of instructions to par-
ents. For instance verse 43 says, ‘‘reprov-
ing betimes with sharpness when moved
upon by the Holy Ghost, and then showing
forth afterwards an increase of love towards
him whom thou hast reproved, lest he es-
teem thee to be his enemy.”
	What a beautiful principle for our guid-
ance, yet how often it is violated in the
home and among us as Church members.
	We all need reproof—children, in the
cause of Christ, but many a child has drifted
from the home, from mother’s loving care,
and many have gone from the Church be-
cause parents and those with authority to
chastise, did not observe the latter part of
the advice contained in this verse.
	In reading a sketch of the life of the “boy
Apostle” Hyrum M. Smith (in Cowley’s
Prophets and Patriarchs) we find: “He
was safely tucked away in bed long after he
reached the age of hundreds of the boys—
and girls too—that we now see playing in

[Column 3]
the streets late at night.” And I ask my-
self why it is that this mother did her duty
in this regard, while many other mothers
seem to utterly disregard it? I take it that
she knew from reading that it was a positi v
command of God that we retire and arise
early, that our bodies and minds be invig-
orated. (Sec 88, verse 124). Oh, what a
vast amount of sin and sorrow is brought
into the world under cover of night, when
our sons and daughters should at least be
at home with us, and in bed at decent
hours. Yet I am quite sure that many of
our young qeople who habitually keep late
hours to the detriment of their health and
morals, would not have contracted such a
habit if taught from early childhood that it
is in violation of a command of God, just as
much as the drinking of strong drinks. And
even now most of our dear girls are con-
scientious enough to appreciate the necessity
of a reform, and their influence is great in
other good or bad practices among the
young, if they were lovingly shown this
passage and impressed with its importance
by a wise parent.
	So too, the suggestion in Section 42,
verse 40 in regard to the making and wear-
ing of our apparel be pondered over by us
as mothers and taught to our daughters
with profit. Thus I might go on, but space
will not permit.
	Let me say in closing that we who now
have equal rights with our husbands should
not be afraid to stand along side by side
with them in the study of this important
work. Let us read it with a prayerful heart
and God will increase our interest in it and
our power to understand and live up to the
glorious principles contained therein.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
				R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
			67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you a
	much as possible for your money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
		RELIEF SOCIETY NOTICE.
	The Stake Secretaries of the Relief Society
in the several stakes of Zion, also in mis-
sions and in branches of the Society not in-
cluded in stakes or missions, are hereby
notified to prepare complete annual reports,
statistical and financial, dating from January
1, 1904, to December 31, 1904, and forward
the same to the General Secretary, Tem-
pleton Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, not
later than the middle of February, 1905.
	Wherever the Relief Society owns build-
ings, halls or granaries, it is desirable that
information should be made a separate item,
and how many in the stake, and in what
wards located; also any other important
facts that would be of interest to the gener-
al officers.

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 37,600 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
			JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
	No 1 Main Street.


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 33					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY, 1905.						No. 8.


CONTENTS.
Grace Grant’s Trip Through Foreign Countries	57
Program for Utah Society Daughter of the
	Revolution- 1905-1906..............................	58
Relief Society Organized...................................	58
D. R’S. Honor Washington's Birthday...............	59
Todenfest....................................Lydia D. Alder	59
EDITORIAL:- A. Golden Wedding...................	60
A Relief Society Social......................................	60
Miss Anthony on Polygamy................. A. S. B.	60
Relief Society Reports........................................	61
Mothers’ Work....................................................	61
In Memoriam......................................................	63
Mrs. Gilman on Pure Air....................................	63
The Statute of Miss Willard...............................	64
Advanced Russia.................................. A. S. B.	64
POETRY:- America-Washington- On the Des-
	ert...............................................................	57
	Betsy Ross and the Flag.............................	59
	To the Relief Society Sisters......................	63


AMERICA—WASHINGTON.
America! fair land of Freedom’s sires!
Alas! how low doth burn the brilliant fires
Enkindled long ago! when Washington
By heav’n inspired, true, loyal hearts led on
To fight and nobly die in freedom’s cause,
And for this new-born land make righteous laws.
Oh Washington! nor patriot so true—
Our countrys’ tender father! unto you
We give all honor due; this natal day
Commemorate thine honored name and pray
That God for us perpetuate thy birth,
And send another just like thee to earth.
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.
	Feb. 22, 1905.


ON THE DESERT.
		BY LOUISE COULSON.
	Out on the desert, God’s broad plain,
	Stretching away toward the setting sun,
	With lightning speed the roaring train
	Bears the weary traveler on and on
	To that sweet goal where love’s dear race
		is won.
	Out on the desert, sweet breezes blow,
	Caressing the eyes, the lips and brow,
	And over all, around the sunset’s glow,
	Gathers a mantle of mist and anow.
	Out on the desert, thou art not alone,
	God's angels hover o'er thy wandering way,
	And faith and hope that leads today,
	And brightens the night the long lone way.
	Oh, out on the desert of life's high-way,
	Borne on and on by the tide of fate,
	Past the green and gold on Nature's plain
	Till we meet again at the welcome gate.
	That opens to the hearts that love and wait.
Butte City, Montana, Sept, 1st, 1900.


[Column 1]
GRACE GRANTS TRIP THROUGH FOREIGN
			COUNTRIES.
Dear Grandma Grant:
	Papa has asked me to write you a letter
all about our trip to Scandinavia
	We left here on the 20th of July, and
the first night we had to cross the North
Sea. The boat was so crowded that we
couldn’t get berths, and so had to sit up all
night, The next morning we got off at the

[Column 2]
Hook of Holland and took a train for Rot-
terdam. We were all so sleepy that we
went to sleep and rode right through the
city. As it was a fast train we had to ride
two hours and a half before the train
stopped. When it did stop they put us on
the right train and sent us back. We
didn’t have to pay a cent for the extra ride
and saw lots of Holland and Germany
which we would not have seen otherwise.
	We got back to Rotterdam about eleven
o’clock instead of six, and as we had
missed our train we had to stay there all
day. We took a train for Berlin about
seven that evening. We were on the train
all night, and as it wasn’t a sleeping car
we didn’t get much rest. We arrived in
Berlin the next morning and were met by
an Elder. We started right out to see the
city, going first to the Kaiser’s church.
This is a beautiful building both inside and
out  As it was Sunday, they were having
services there, and so we didn’t stay very
long. We then went out to Charlottenberg
and visited the mausoleum where the tombs
of some of the German knights and queens
are. Just as you enter the building there is
a statue representing the Angel of Death.
There is a large blue skylight, and as that
is the only light in the building everything
looks very dismal. There are four large
tombs there, and they are all lovely, but my
favorite was the one of Queen Louise. They
are all pure white marble and there is a life
sized statue of the person who is in the
tomb on top of each one.
	That evening we went out to the princi-
pal part of the city and saw a number of
pretty places We went to the Reichstag,
capital building, and it is one of the pretti
est buildings I ever saw. In front of it are
some fountains and a statue of Bismarck.
Then we went to the Victory monument,
which I like better than any monument I
have ever seen. It is in memory of the
victories won over the French. We walked
from here down the Victory Avenue. This
is a beautiful street, having statues of the
rulers of Germany from 1100 up to the pres-
ent time. The statues are not very pictur-
esque, but very interesting. We went next
to the Wagner monument This is also a
very pretty monument, being a statue of
Wagner surrounded by figures representing
his four greatest operas. Then we went to
the Thier Gardens, and stayed their until
after ten listening to the music. The mus-
ic in Germany is the loveliest I have ever
heard. You hear a band almost everywhere
you go and they are all very good ones.
	The next morning we went first to the
Kaiser’s palace, which was very beautiful,
but overladen with gold and silver. The
bed, bed room and prayer room of Freder-
ick the Great are there. The prettiest room
is the large senate room, where the Senators
met before going to the Reichstag. This
room is also used for a banquet hall.
	Then we went to the Zeug Haus, which
is a large building full of war paintings,
instruments of war, old flags, etc. It was
very interesting.
	Then we went to the Royal stables, and
think the building is much too pretty to

[Column 3]
be used for a stable. There were hundreds
of horses and carriages which were all very
beautiful, but only for show. I don’t sup-
pose many of them are used once in a life-
time.
	From there we walked up the noted street,
Under den Linden. I was dlsappointed in
this street, as I had heard so much about it
and was expecting more than I got The
trees look like they have just been put in
lately, and are too small to give as much
shade as is necessary to make it real pleas-
ant. At the top of this street is anarch
that was at one lime the gate to a wall. On
top of this arch is a bronze chariot that rep-
resents victory. This chariot was captured
by the French some years ago and placed on
the Triumphal Arch in Paris but was later
taken back to Germany.
	Next we went to the panorama and saw
the destruction of Port Arthur and a regu-
lar battle on the sea. There were about
twelve little war vessels about ten or twelve
feet long. They were built just like war
ships, and so we got a pretty good idea of
naval battles.
	From there we got a car and took a love-
ly car ride through Grunewald, green forest,
which is the principal residence part of the
city. It is very pretty out there, and there
are some lovely homes. On our way back
we stopped at the Terrassen an Halensee,
which is a large building built in the Egyp-
tian style. It is real odd, but pretty, and
is a sort of a summer resort. The building
is used for a restaurant, the gardens are
lovely and there is a large bathing pond
near.
	The next day we went to the art galler-
es. First we went to the new art gallery,
which is very nice and has some lovely
pictures in it. Then we went to the old
one which has mostly all statues in, there
wasn’t much to it, and I thought most of
the statues were hideous.
	Then we went to the largest store in Ger-
many. It was a lovely store and I saw lots
of things which I wouldn’t have minded
having, but of course I couldn’t have
everything I wanted, and so I didn’t buy
anything.
	Next we went to the Art Exhibit. Most
of the pictures there were the new art, and
liked some of them very much. They
had rooms furnished in the new art furni-
ture, and they were very interesting and
pretty. I like the new art very much,
especially the furniture and jewelry.
	The next day we went to Dresden and
spent the day. We were most of the time
in the art galleries and they are the finest I
have seen at all. There are a great many
noted pictures in these galleries and nearly
every picture there is a perfect gem.
	After leaving there we went out to the
snmmer residence of the King of Saxony
It is built on the Japanese style and is very 
odd, but picturesque. The gardens around
it are just lovely.
	We didn’t get back to Berlin until after
ten that night and left early toe next morn-
ing for Copenhagen. We went from Berlin
to Copenhagen, part way by boat a[-]d part
by train, arriving there about seven o’clock


[Column 1]
that evening. The next day we started out
to see the sights of Copenhagen, which
were not many. First we went to the Art
Gallery, but as it wasn’t very large and had
no noted pictures in, we didn’t stay very
long. Then we went to Thorvaldsen’s
Museum. This was very interesting and
all the sculpture work there was done by
Thorvaldsen. There are some very beauti-
ful statues in it.
	That afternoon we went to the Zoologi-
cal Gardens where I saw lots of animals
which I have heard and read about, but
that I have never seen before. Then we
walked through some real pretty parks back
to the hotel. I suppose you know there
is not so much to see in Copenhagen as in
Berlin.
	The next day we went to another pretty
park and the harbor, and then to a large
forest near the sea shore. We passed the
King of Denmark’s palace, but as visitors
were not being admitted then, we could not
go through it. We took a boat that even-
for Malmo and from there we took a train
for Stockholm. We arrived in Stockholm
the next morning. We had a sleeping car.
The first I have seen over here, and they
are nothing to compare with the ones at
home, but much better than sitting up all
night.
	This afternoon we went through the
king’s palace, and it was real nice. There
is a museum there of old costumes and I
never saw such funny dresses in my life as
saw there. The guest’s rooms were love-
ly and I wouldn’t mind being a guest there
myself.
	That evening after meeting we took a
walk through some of the parks. Stock-
holm is a very beautiful city, and has the
loveliest location of any city I have seen.
You can’t go anywhere without crossing
bridges or taking ferry boats. It is called
the Venice of the North.
	The next day we went first up on an ele-
vator and got a lovely view of the city, and
then we went through an old church where
some of the kings and queens of Sweden
are buried. It was a very dismal place.
Then we took a ride around the city and
saw the residences, which were all real
pretty. Then we went to the north mu-
seum, which was very interesting. It is
full of old costumes, furniture, kettles, etc.,
like are used in some of the country parts
of Sweden at present. From there we took
a boat and went around one of the islands;
it is the prettiest boat ride I have ever had.
Both shores were covered with forests and
the water was very smooth, so it made a
beautiful sight.
	The next day we went to the National
Museum which is full of pictures, and stat-
ues. There were no noted pictures, but
some very fine work.
	That afternoon we went out to the king’s
summer palace, which is on one of the
islands not far from the city. We went
through the palace and walked around the
grounds. I liked the palace very much but
I liked the grounds better.
	We left Stockholm the next morning for
Gothenburg. We were on the boat three
days, and although the scenery was perfect-
ly lovely, it was the same thing over and
over, and so soon became tiresome. We
all got sea sick the second day while on one
of the big lakes. We saw some falls which
are said to be next to Niagara, but I don’t
think the two can be compared. Maybe it
is because Niagara is in America.
	There wasn’t anything to see in Gothen-

[Column 2]
burg but the parks and a forest, so after we
had seen those we didn’t have much to do,
so sat around the hotel and went for little
walks
	We left Gothenburg Tuesday morning
and arrived in Christiania about three
o’clock that afternoon. That evening we
went to one of the parks and heard a real
good orchestra.
	We spent most of the next day on one of
the mountains near the city and it is one of
the prettiest places I have ever seen. We
walked to the top of the mountain where we
got an excellent view of the city.
	The next day we visited one of the pal-
aces and went to the oldest Christian church
in Norway. It is the funniest little build-
ing I have ever seen and just as dark as pitch
inside. It rained the next day, so we
didn’t go anywhere in the morning, but in
the afternoon we went to the Art gallery.
They were moving from one building to
another, so we didn’t see much. There is
a shed near the museum and in it is one of
the old Viking ships which was dug out of
the clay on the seashore. It is almost “gone
up the spout,’’ but is still very interesting.
	The next morning we took the tourist
boat and rode around for two hours and a
half on the Christiania Fjord and it was a
lovely ride. Then for a change we went to
another park and got another view of the
city, but it was not a very clear day, and so
the view was not as good as some we had
had.
	The next day was Sunday, and so we
didn’t do a thing but go to meeting, and
the next day we left for home. We went
home by way of Copenhagen, Kiel, Ham-
burg and Rotterdam, but didn’t stay in any
one place long enough to see anything. We
saw a lot of German battle ships in the
Kiel harbor, and I never saw such enorm-
ous things in my life. We were all deathly
sick crossing the North Sea. We left papa
at Christiania and he had another three day
water trip before him, so we all thought of
him while sea sick and felt sorry for him.
	We got home on the 25th of August,
just in time to rush down to the landing
stage and see Brother Robinson and Laura
Foster off. We were very glad to get here
in time to say good by to them.
	We were all very glad to get home, and
only wished we could have brought papa
with us.
	Well, all the news is told, so I will close
with lots of love to all, especially yourself.
	From your loving granddaughter Grace.
Liverpool, England, Oct. 10, 1904.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


PROGRAM FOR UTAH SOCIETY DAUGH-
TERS OF THE REVOLUTION—1905-1906.
	March 16th—Gen. Schuyler, Catherine
Wells; Gen. Montgomery, Mary A. H. Can-
non. Dlscussion.
	April 16th—Gen. Richard Henry Lee,
Emily H. C. Willey; Gen. Lincoln, Emily
Y. Clawson. Discussion.
	May 16—Gen. Ethan Allen, Diana Rich;
Gen. Mercer, Ann Lyman King. Discus-
sion.
	September 16—Gen. Stark, Julia P. M.
Farnsworth; Dr. Joseph Warren, Phebe Y.
Beatie. Discussion.
	October 16th—Gen. Putnam, Mary Ly-
man Gowans; Gen. Joseph Spencer, Mira
Y. Rossiter. Discussion.
	November 16th—Patrick Henry, Emmeline


B. Wells; Gen. Heath, Lucy S. W. Smith.
Discussion.
	December 16th—Gen. Knox, Clarissa Y.
Spencer John Hancock, Carol Y. Cannon.
Discussion.
	January 16th—Robert Morris, Julia A. F.
Lund; Gen. George Clinton, Elizabeth R.
Wright. Discussion.
	February 16th—Gen Morgan, Almira De
Wolfe; Gen Ward, Maria Y. Dougall. Dis-
cussion


RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZED.
RELIEF SOCIETY OF LEIPZIG AND REPORT
		OF ITS ORGANIZATION.
	By invitation of Chas. J. Thomas, presi-
ding: Elder of Leipzig Branch, the sisters
met in the L. D. S. hall, no. 2 Universitat
Str. on Sunday, August 28, 1904, to con-
sider the subject of the organization of a Re-
lief Society. After singing and prayer,
Elder Thomas moved and Pres. Benson
seconded the motion that Sister Alder be
temporary chairman. Brother Franz Schulze
was elected secretary. Sister Alder stated
the object of the meeting to be the advisa-
bility of organizing a Relief Society. It was
moved by Elder Geo. A. Alder to have a
Relief Society. Elder Thomas seconded the
motion. It was unanimously voted that an
organization be effected. Elder Thomas
moved that Sister Selma Gunther be presi-
dent. Elder Alder seconded the motion,
As first counselor Sister Maria Kretschmor
was elected and as second counselor Sister
Ida Loffler was elected. Emma Homberger
was elected secretary and Lydia Piusch
treasurer. Frederieke Poitz, Marie Hiller,
Louie Wolf and Auguste Low were chosen
teachers. These sisters were all set apart
for their various offices, by the following
brethren, Alder, Benson, Schulze, and
Thomas.
	President Gunther took the chair by re-
quest of Elder Thomas, Sister Alder gave
them instructions in regard to their duties
as officers and members and spoke of the
first organization in Nauvoo. Sister Gun-
ther called an officers’ meeting the following
evening at the house of Sister Hausdorf for
the purpose of further instructions. On
motion, meeting was adjourned to time and
place specified. Benediction was offered by
Brother Friedrich Gunther;
			RICHARD D. ANDREWS.


Lady Henry Somerset will be a guest at
the annual meeting of the W. C. T. U. to
be held at Portland, next October.
	Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman has sailed
for Europe, where she has engagements to
lecture in London, Berlin and elsewhere.
	The Kansas House of Representatives,by
a vote of 65 to 49, has passed a bill to allow
women to vote for presidential electors.
	Queen Wilhelmina of Holland is making
money by selling milk and butter. As a 
child Wilhelmina kept chickens. She fed
them, and incidentally made pocket-money
out of them.
	Miss Susan B. Anthony celebrated her
eighty-fifth birthday in Rochester, N. Y.,
on Feb. 15. She received greetings from
Finland, Switzerland, Holland, Austria,
Germany, Australia, South America. Mex-
ico, and from all parts of the United States.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BETSY ROSS AND THE FLAG.	
	BY SUSA YOUNG GATES.
’Twas a woman that made the lovely flag—
	A woman with soul divine,
The man may have thought, but the woman
		wrought,
	The cover for liberty’s shrine.
The sun had risen, and the sun had set,
	On our flag with the English cross;
When the thirteen bars and the thirteen stars,
	Were fashioned by Betsy Ross.
For the dragon and cross surmounted a crown,
	And freedom was but a story,
When the breeze unfurled to a saddened world
	The flag with its dear-bought glory.
On the high seas first, the flag flashed out
	Its welcome challenge for peace.
Paul Jones sailed faster than England’s dis-
		aster,
	To win America’s release.
Then out from each fortress and seaport town,
	There gleamed the flag with its stars.
The mountains and vales, the hills and dales
	Were bright with its crimson bars.
O, red was the blood that was shed for you,
	But white was the pure desire,
And in heaven’s own hue, the stars shone
		through,
	And kindled sweet liberty’s fire.
So, up with the splendid stars and stripes,
	There’s a gain for every loss.
Honor the men who fought, and the women
		who wrought
	And honor brave Betsy Ross.


D. R’S. HONOR WASHINGTON’S BIRTHDAY.
One of the most delightful social and
patriotic events of the season was at the
home of Bishop and Mrs. W. J. Beatie on the
evening of Washington’s Birthday. As
State Regent, Mrs. Beatie entertained the
Utah Society Daughters of the Revolution.
The beautiful home was elaborately deco-
rated with the Society colors, flags and
pictures. Excellent music was furnished
by some of the state’s best artists, Miss
Ceceila Sharp, Hugh Dougall and George
D. Pyper. Mrs. Julia A. Farnsworth-
Lund gave a paper for the U. S. S. D. R.,
acknowledging the veneration of the Daugh-
ters for the great founders of the nation
and the state; also the debt of gratitude the
Utah Society owes to its organizers, Mrs.
Susa Y. Gates and Mrs. E. B. Wells. Judge
William H. King, in his usual artistic
style, delivered a most learned and able ad-
dress upon the subject of Government. Dr.
E. S. Wright graciously responded with a
humorous recitation. Apostle George A.
Smith expressed patriotic sentiments with
his usual enthusiasm. Delicious refresh-
ments were served.
J. P. M. F.


RELIEF SOCIETY NOTICE.
	The Stake Secretaries of the Relief Society
in the several stakes of Zion, also in mis-
sions and in branches of the Society not in-
cluded in stakes or missions, are hereby
notified to prepare complete annual reports,
statistical and financial, dating from January
1, 1904, to December 31, 1904, and forward
the same to the General Secretary, Tem-
pleton Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, not
later than the middle of March, 1905.
	Wherever the Relief Society owns build-
ings, halls or granaries, it is desirable that
information should be made a separate item,
and how many in the stake, and in what
wards located; also any other important
facts that would be of interest to the gener-
al officers.—Address Mrs. E. B. Wells.


[Column 1]
		TODENFEST.
	Todenfest is a remembrance day of the
dead, and was observed on Sunday, No-
vember 20, 1904, in the customary way in
Saxony. The cemeteries were thronged
from early morning until the shades of even-
ing hid them from view. The New Cem-
etery (as it is called, though quite an old
one,) in Leipsic was most beautifully dec-
orated. On almost every grave floral of-
ferings, many of them large, costly
wreaths. None are admitted here for bu-
rial, only members of families who already
own the ground.
	It covers quite a large area, and is laid
out in divisions, separated by thick stone
walls.
	In one of these divisions is quite a large
plot, wherein are interred a number of
French soldiers who fought under Napo-
leon in 1813, and sixty-five prisoners of
the war of 1870-71, and opposite to it one
of equal size where are German soldiers
who fell in the Franco-Prussian war of 1870-
71. A large monument in the center,
enclosed by iron rails and chains, gives
their names and designates their calling.
The plot is enclosed by iron chains passing
through stone posts, and has two entrances,
the posts on either side formed as a cannon,
gilt bands, lettered, twined around them,
and gilt spikes at the mouth, representing
the cannon's fire, while at the base of each
are a number of cannon balls, some large
others small. On these graves are some
flowers, and a number of head plates.
Among the ivy, on one of them, under an
oval raised glass cover, are two hands
clasped together.
	How strangely one feels, to see them
there, down among the ivy! Throngs of
visitors come and go through, looking at
the graves and reading what is on the mon-
uments.
	The French graves are without a flower;
a single wreath, French colors showing
through it, hangs on the center monument,
while at the base of the other monument is
a metal plate placed there by the French
society, which states that “here are en-
tombed a number of French soldiers of the
war of 1813.” How desolate they look,
the heavy iron chain surrounding them, in
its stone posts, and no entrance for visitors!
Alone, though people are all around them,
and the graves on either hand so profusely
decorated that they have the appearance of
a sea of flowers!
	But they are far away from sunny France
—far from her vine-clad hills, buried here
among hostile strangers. Are they forgot-
ten because these multitudes pass them
coldly by, or speak of them as the French?
No! far away, tears have fallen, hearts have
broken, because they who marched so gal-
lantly to war, returned not again, but laid
down in a foreign land to die.
	But these graves, as the others, are well
kept, and covered with thick ivy (which is
trained all over the graves in this land, in-
stead of grass). In one corner a small
monument tells of the officers interred
here.
	Hundreds of people are thronging the
wide, white walks and roaming among the
graves. Here and there is the grave of one
newly dead, and they are elaborate affairs,
about five feet high and two long, covered
with palm leaves, evergreens, flowers,
wreaths and wide ribbon sashes of various
hues, and in them mottoes or inscriptions
in gold letters. How much is expended on

[Column 2]
the German graves! Beyond the white
walks are trees, shrubs and flowers. Now,
as winter is approaching, the nice head-
stones are covered by means of heavy
wooden slides, made to fit them, so that
they are protected from the inclemency of
the weather. Frail monuments are likewise
protected. Nicely dressed people are going
hither and thither some carrying wreaths
and others placing them, while some are
sitting in meditation near the resting places
of their loved ones.
	A favorite inscription in this land is
“Resting in God.” Is it prompted by an
abiding faitn in Him? Is it true that these
sleeping multitudes thus await the sound
of the last trump? But what a disappoint-
ment that time will bring! Nothing be
as we think, perchance not as we desire.
What then? Well it is that an all-wise
Judge will scan our records, and to each
one will give all that justice tempered with
mercy can bestow.
	Not a discordant sound is heard, not a
boisterous tone or peal of laughter, but the
greatest respect everywhere. Everything
seems to be of hallowed memory.
In most of the German homes, they can-
not long keep their dead. They have but
few rooms. and live in all of them. There
are generally two families, one in each
Luppe, so that seventy-five or a hundred
people live in each house. When a death
occurs, they prepare the body for bnrial,
and it is taken to the church in the cemetery,
and often lies for some hours in the dead
house attached to it.
	One does not often see a single hearse,
but on the back is a carriage, having two
back wheels, the hearse serving for the two
front ones, or a carriage with a receptacle
for the little casket, crosswise, put at the
back of the driver. In this way expenses
are reduced at this sad time.
	It is said that the clergy reap a rich har-
vest at these seasons, for it is considered a
disgrace to lay relatives away without a
long sermon being read over them. So if
this is desired, and that he also wear his
fine robes, they must pay a high price. A
German funeral often costs hundreds of
marks when the family can illy afford it.
Todenfest is the winter remembrance
of the dead, while June 24th of each year
corresponds to our Decoration Day.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


The Montana House of Representatives
on Feb. 14 defeated the woman suffrage
bill, 38 to 30. It had a majority, but a two-
thirds vote was needed.

	"The woman suffrage constitutional
amendment has been favorably reported in
both branches of the California Legislature,
and the vote in the Senate stood 21 ayes to 
14 nays. This lacked a few votes of the nec-
essary two thirds majority. An effort will
be made to reconsider."

 Rev. Anna H. Shaw is now able to sit 
up, and is dictating more letters than her
doctor and nurse approve of, but she seems
to be in a cheery state of mind. She writes:
"I am a funny sight; I am sitting up,
propped in my big chair, with two little
pig-tails like Sissy Hopkins' each side of
my head, and wrapped up in a blanket. I 
sit up only a little while at a time. I am
really trying to do for once as I am told and
to get well as soon as possible.”—Ex.


60 		WOMAN'S EXPONENT

Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year. 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
Mrs. E B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY, 1905


[Column 1]
A GOLDEN WEDDING.

All of a tenor was their after life;
No day discolor'd with domestic strife;
No jealousy, but mutual truth believed
Secure repose and kindness undeceive'd.

	St. Valentine's Day, 1905 was the fiftieth
anniversary of the marriage of Samuel W.
Richards and his wife Mary Ann Parker
Richards, and the festive occasion was ap-
propriately celebrated at the residence of
his daughter Elizabeth and her husband,
Dr. and Mrs Elias S. Wright.
	There certain y is no more suitable day
for weddings than when the birds mate in
February, and when nesting and love-
making is in the air; and although in 1855,
when the marriage ceremony was solem-
nized, this young couple might not have
had in mind or chosen that particular day,
yet having grown sentimental as they grew
in years, perchance it may have dawned
upon them.
	The party given them was a complete
surprise and proved a perfect success.
	There were nearly one hundred present,
and the affair was simply delightful, with-
out parade or ostentation. Dr. Wright,
the host of the evening, was Master of
Ceremonies and proved himself very effici-
ent in that capacity. The rooms were
handsomely decorated, and the bride and
bridegroom, guests of honor, were seated
in the bay window of the library, where
they received the guests with unfeigned
dignity and graciousness. The numerous
relatives and friends, their cordial and gen-
uine greetings, were a source of true happi-
ness to their recipients.
	Dr. Wright gave the company some stir-
ring instrumental music, and a few young
people, and here and there one of the older
ladies indulged in dancing, sort of inform-
ally. A poem of affectionate remembrance
from a daughter in southern Utah, Mrs.
Annie Spilsbury, was read by Dr. Wright,
and also one from her daughter Josephine,
by the genial host. Miss Geneva Wright,
gave two recitations charmingly, "Ida's
First Bean" and "Grandma at the Mas-
querade." Little Afton Wright recited
"My Firstest Christmas Tree." Mrs. E.
B. Wells read, by request, a poem, "Remi-
niscences (Only a Fragment)," written for 
the Daughters of the Pioneers. Elder Rich-
ards gave some very interesting items of
his lite, that recalled to the older people
scenes of other days and old fr ends and
intimate associates, especially those who had
been prominent in Church history.

[Column 2]
	Delicious refreshments were served to all
guests by daughters and granddaughters
of the veteran bridegroom, who had, not
long since reached his fourscore years. The 
remainder of the evening was pleasantly
spent in social chat and conversation.
Among the distinguished guests was Mrs.
Bathsheba W. Smith, General President of
the Relief Society, who had known Brother
S. W. Richards from his coming to Nanvoo
with his father's family in 1842. His
brother, Elder Henry P. Richards and wife,
and his sister, Maria W. Wilcox were pres-
ent to participate in the honor shown their
brother.
	Of the original Richards family who
came from the Berkshire hills in Massachu-
setts to Nanvoo, these three are
 the only
remaining ones. Their father, Phineas
and his wife Wealthy Dewey Richards,
passed away some years ago, also Apostle
Willard Richards, uncle of Samuel, who
became one of the First Presidency after the
martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph, and
died in 1856. A sister Rhoda Richards
and brother Levi passed away here.
Apostle Franklin D. Richards was of the
same family who came to Nauvoo in 1842.
These have all a numerous posterity in
Zion, except Aunt Rhoda Richards, who
never married, although she lived to be
over ninety, and was a remarkable woman
in many ways. The Richards family is
counted among the famous families in
Church history, along with the Smiths, the 
Youngs, and the Kimballs.


A RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIAL.
	With the departure of Sister Hattie Blair
for Utah where she expects in the future to
make her home, the Brooklyn conference
loses one of its most va iant workers, and
our R lief Society its president. We shall
indeed miss her pleasant face, for she is like
a streak of sunshine wherever she goes.
	Especially will the family of Sister Joanna
Simms, who has been ill this winter at the
hospital and the care of whose six little chil-
dren fell upon the Relief Society, appreci-
ate the efforts of Sister Blair, when she is
far away in Zion
	At the mission headquarters, on Feb-
ruary 14, a genuine surprise was planned
for Sister Blair who came bustling into our
regular weekly evening meeting, as she
supposed. One needs only to attend a so-
cial gathering of Saints and missionaries to
feel the true spirit of love and unity which
is characteristic of the “Mormons.”
	A splendid impromptu program, in which
a new piano figured conspicuously, made
the earlier hours pass pleasantly.
	The ready response of Sister Ellen Thom-
as, Elders Kennard and Pack, with Sister
J. R. Clark as accompanist, as well as the
singing of the different groups of Elders,
was very much appreciated.
	Sisters Givilliams, White and Leone
Taylor gave literary numbers very credit-
ably.
	Sister Taylor also furnished American
Beauty roses and carnations (her Valentine
from Utah) which added to the evening’s
pleasure.
	Part of the program consisted of the re-
lease of Sister Bla r and the appointment of
Sister Sadie G. Pack of Utah as president of
the society.
	Remarks were made by President John
M. McFarlane, Sister Blair and counselors,
and President Pack. Refreshments were
served, after which Counselor Annie Mae
Clark, in behalf of the society, presented
Sister Blair with an autograph album, full
of expressions of love and blessings from
her friends. Games and charades made mer-
ry the later hours till good nights were
said.
	Much praise is due the secretary of our
society, Sister Belle Shaffer, for her able
management of the affair. Also President
and Sister McQuarrie, whose hospitality we
enjoyed.
	I will close with a tribute from one of the
Saints to Sister Blair, read during the eve-
ing.
						E. I. L.
			A TRIBUTE.
	Since I cannot mingle my voice with
yo[-]rs tonight, I desire to send my mite in
the entertainment and cheer of her in whose
honor you have met.
	Dear Sister Blair, whom I have learned to
love as one of my own kin, what a joy it
has been to know and to labor with her!
	And cannot all of the sisters say the
same? During the brief time she has been
our president, who shall estimate the work
she has performed? Not great deeds which
make a glittering show, but little acts of
charity and love, the object for which our
society was organized. Only fnture years
will enable us to realize and appreciate such
work, while those poor and needy among
us to whom her efforts have been more
closely directed will love and praise her
memory when she is far away.
	In contemplating the splendid example
she has been to us, of virtue, patience, love
and sunshine, Solomon’s eulogy to his ideal
of womankind seems most fitting to her.
	“Who can find a virtuous woman? for her
price is far above rubies. The heart of h[-]r
husband doth safely trust in her, so that he
shall have no need of spoil. She will do for
him good and not evil all the days of her
life. She seeketh wool and flax and work-
eth willingly with her hands. She riseth
while it is yet night and giveth meat to her
household, and a portion to her maidens.
She considereth a field and buyeth it with
the fruit of her hands she planteth a vine-
yard. She girdeth her loins with strength.
She perceiveth that her merchandise is
good, her candle goeth not out by night.
She layeth her hands to the spindle, and
her hands hold the distaff. She stretcheth
out her hand to the poor, yea she reacheth
forth her hands to the needy. She is not
afraid of the snow, for all her household is
clothed in scarlet. Strength and honor are
her clothing and she s[-]all rejoice in time to
come. She openeth her mouth with wis-
dom, and in her tongue is the law of kind-
ness. She looketh well to the ways of her
household and eateth not the bread of idle-
ness. Her children rise up and call her
blessed; her husband also and he praiseth
her.”
	That all of God’s choicest blessings may
be the future for our sister is the wish of
				ONE OF THE SOCIETY.


MISS ANTHONY AND POLYGAMY.

Boston Woman's Journal, Feb. 11, 1905
	Opponents of Equal rights for women are
scattering broadcast through the press ac-
cusations that the woman suffragists, and
especially Miss Anthony and Mrs. May


Wright Sewall, favor polygamy. Dean
Swift said that it was remarkable how few
persons were skillful liars, considering the
large number who practice the art. In all
his experience, he declared, he had not met
with more than three good lies. This lie
about Miss Anthony and Mrs. Sewall is a
particularly clumsy one. Miss Anthony’s
pet idea, to which she has been devoted for
a life-time, is equal rights for women. Can
anyone seriously suppose she would favor
allowing a man to have a dozen wives when
a woman is only allowed one husband?
Mrs. Sewall was largely instrumental in
getting the International Council of Wo-
men to pledge itself to work for an equal
standard of morals for men and women;
and she is much more conservative in her
ideas on the marriage question than most
of her critics, or than the average of the
community.
	The whole outcry is based upon the fact
that Mrs. Sewall last summer expressed
herself as opposed to expelling from the
Woman’s Council a charitable society of
Mormon women which had belonged to the
Council for many years and because Miss
Anthony lately said she bad more respect
for a Mormon who imagined that he had a
religious sanction fo- his deeds, than she
had for a nominal Christian who lived an
immoral life.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall defined her po-
sition in a letter published in the Woman's
Journal of May 21, 1904. She said:
	“I not only believe in the monogamic as
the o[-]ly form of marriage compatible w[-]th
an ideal home, serving the highest spiritual
development, but I further believe that
marriage should never be dissolved except
by death.”
	Mrs. Sewall added that she believed it
was a good thing to have the organization
of Mormon women enter the Council, and
come in contact as much as possible with
women holding the higher ideal of monog-
amic marriage; and she reminded her critics
that Frances Willard had also favored let-
ting the Mormon association belong. Mrs.
Sewall denied in toto that she had ever
written to Senator Beveridge urging the
seating of Senator Smoot.
	In rega d to whether Mr. Smoot should
be seated, there are all sorts of opinions
among the suffragists, as there are among
the anti-suffragists. If he should be al-
lowed to take his seat, it will be by vote of
a U S. Senate most of whose members are
opposed to equal suffrage. Would that
justify the suffragists in declaring that the
“Antis” as a class favor polygamy?
	I never knew a suffragist, not a Mormon:
who believed in polygamy. But several
famous men who were strongly opposed to
equal rights for women have advocated
polygamy. One was John Milton, who was
such a champion of freedom for men and of
subjection for women that some one said he
seemed to regard men as made only for re-
bellion, and women as made only for sub-
mission. Napoleon, who regarded women
as useful solely to bring soldiers into the
world, and whose “Code Napoleon” de-
prived women of about all personal and
property rights, wrote: “I consider it a great
mistake that a man is allowed to have only
one legitimate wife.” No, polygamy is a
doctrine that belongs logically not to the
equal rights party, but rather to their op-
ponents. And the “Antis” must be poorly
off for legitimate arguments when they
make so absurd a charge against Miss
Anthony and Mrs. Sewall. 	A. S. B.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
			WAYNE STAKE.
	Relief Society conference was held at Loa
August 13, 1904. Visiting Sisters Susan
Grant and Sarah J. Cannon of the General
Board, Prest. Jane S. Coleman presiding.
Singing, “We thank thee, O God, for a
prophet,” prayer by Elder Joseph Eckers-
ley. Singing, “High on the mountain
top.”
	Prest. Jane S. Coleman was pleased to
meet with the sisters in conference. Re-
ported her labors in the stake; all in good
running order, prayed the Lord to bless us
in our conference. The president called
for reports, six branches were satisfactorily
reported out of ten.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe was pleased
to have visiting sisters with us in confer-
ence, and prayed the Lord to bless us with
such instruction as is necessary for our
calling in the Relief Society.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon was pleased to
meet with the brethren and sisters in con-
ference and to see so many young sisters in
meeting; said our subject should be the
work we are engaged in, spoke of the
growth of the Relief Society; and added,
“our first duty is to look after the poor,
teachers should be very wise and very gen-
tle, smiles are contagious, every day of our
lives do some good act; spoke of the care
of grain, if you approach the brethren
right they will help you a great deal; don’t
raffle quilts.” Spoke about Mother’s work
and many other subjects.
	Sister Susan Grant was pleased to see so
many young mothers with babies in con-
ference, was pleased that the sisters
are united; the older we grow the nearer
and dearer the Gospel seems; the R. S.
work is a great and responsible work, the
younger sisters will get an experience by
attending R S meetings, we always miss
a blessing when we miss a meeting; desired
to encourage the sisters, and do good.
	Counselor G. S. Bastian was pleased to
meet with the sisters in Relief Society con-
ference, practical talk is the most interest-
ing: appreciated the labors of the Relief
Society presidency of the Wayne Stake.
Prayed the Lord to bless us in our confer-
ence. Singing, “Redeemer of Israel.”
Meeting ajourned till 2 p. m. Benediction
by John T. Lazenby.

	Afternoon session. Prest. Coleman pre-
siding. Singing, “Now let us rejoice”
Prayer by Patriarch E H Blackurn. Sing-
ing, “How firm a foundation.”
	The General Board and Stake officers
were sustained. Stake missionaries Lor-
enteng Ostberg and Leah Blackburn spoke
and bore testimony.
	Lucinda Brown said: We should keep in
mind what we have heard and practice it in
our lives.”
	Sister Susan Grant felt that the spirit of
the Lord was with us in our meeting, trust-
ed in the promises of the servants of the
Lord; said sisters should encourage their
husbands in their duties; have attractions
at home for your children, precept is good
but example is better, we have been
promised that this Gospel will never be
taken from us.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon felt to endorse all
that had been said, we are very much
blessed to be members of the Relief Society;
what we do, do it well; Relief Society work
means good wives and good mothers, said
we should try to have a little means in our

[Column 2]
treasury; we must endure faithfully to the
end.
	Patriarch Blackburn spoke to the sisters,
endorsed all that had been said, was sure
angels were present to take record of what
had been done; he felt honored to be called
on to speak to the sisters, “God bless the
words that have been spoken.”
	Counselor Joseph Eckersley said the
temporal and the spiritual must go hand in
hand; knowledge is the glory of God.
Mothers make your homes desirable,
mothers should instruct their daughters
that there is no greater mission than to bear
children. The pure in heart shall see God.
We can teach our children faith. Asked
God to bless the Society.
	Prest Coleman had enjoyed the confer-
ence very much; prayed the blessings of
the Lord upon all. Singing, “Ye ransomed
of our God.’’ Conference adjourned for six
months. Benediction by Bishop Henry
Morrell.
				ANNA COLEMAN, Sec.


MOTHERS’ WORK.
		SUMMIT STAKE.
Lec, 1st. Woman, Her Mission:
	(a) How to attain the highest type of
womanhood.
	(b) Learn the will of God concerning
them.
	(c) Preparation for further usefulness.
	(d) Laws of health, how observed.
	(e) Word of wisdom a fundamental prin-
ciple.
	(f) Full development of physical and
mental powers.
	(g) Tell of special ambition of women of
ancient Israel.
	(h) How do women of latter-day Israel
compare with those of former-day Israel in
fulfilling the most important function of
woman’s life?
Lec. 2nd.— Wifehood.
	(a) Woman’s duty to husband and home.
	(b) Love of God, desire to fulfill His
commandments.
	(c) How to be companionable.
	(d) Use influence for good, religiously
and intellectually.
	(e) What greater privileges do women of
today enjoy than women of ancient days
enjoyed?
	(f) God’s commandment to Adam and
Eve. (Gen 1: 28-36.)
Lec. 3rd.—Parents:
	(a) Highest calling of man and woman.
	(b) Responsible to God for their ministry.
(Ref. Maeser's “School and Fireside.”)
	(c) Child’s best heritage, honorable birth.
	(d) Purposes bent to prepare heart and
mind for embryonic moulding.
	(e) Cultivation of spirituality.
	(f) Prenatal influence: example, child of
faith.
	(g) Beginning and duration of parent’s
responsibility.
Lec. 4th.—Infancy.
	(a) The child’s welcome as a heaven-sent
gift.
	(b) Cleanliness a necessity.
	(c) Fresh air and warmth essential to
well-being.


[Column 1]
	(d) Nature’s food best, how often given.
	(e) Hygienic clothing,and plentiful mas-
sage with olive oil.
Lec. 5th.—Childhood.
	(a) Bright looks and gentle tones the
child’s birthright.
	(b) The character of the child a special
study.
	(c) Prayer taught at the mother’s knee,
and early imprsssions of faith in God.
	(d) First principles taught, obedience,
truthfulness, honesty and respect for the
priesthood and those in authority over
them.
	(e) Faith in ordination taught by pre-
cept and example.
Lec. 6th.
	(a) Co-operation of parents necessary for
future welfare of child.
	(b) Special teachings necessary when
child leaves home to attend district school.
	(c) Example set by others not always
worthy.
	(d) Care taken to guide children in choice
of companions.
	(e) Bad effects of continual fault-finding.
	(f) Parents should control themselves
before correcting child.
	(g) Cultivate spirituality and develop by
constant care. (Ref. “Fireside Talks,”
Carl G. Maeser.)
	Committee on Mothers’ Work, Summit
Stake.
			ONEIDA STAKE.
	Lesson 1st. Marriage,
		Ye kindred spirits filled with mutual love,
		Pure as the dews descending from above,
		All hail! for you the sacred keys are given,
		To make you one on earth and one in heaven,
		Be fruitful then, and let your race extend;
		Fill Earth, the stars and worlds that never end.
							Key to Theology.
	1. Marriage is ordained of God unto
man, Doc. & Cov. Sec. 49-15. 2. The
great purpose for which marriage was or-
dained is to fulfill that first divine law given
in the beginning— “Multiply and replen-
ish the earth,” Gen. 1: 28. Heb. 13: 4. 3.
Those contemplating marriage should pos-
sess a proper knowledge of the laws of life
and have a reverence for God’s laws con-
cerning the marriage relation. Key to The-
ology, page 165 166. 4.Warn our girls
against the delusive hope of reforming after
marriage a man whose habits before were
bad. 5. Justify advice by giving example
of lives which have been wrecked in this
way. 6. Kind of marriage approved, Doc.
& Cov. Sec. 132-15-18-19. Key to Theo-
logy, page 162.
	Lesson 2nd. Personal appearance and
cleanliness.
	“Cleanliness is indeed next to Godliness.’’
	1. Importance of cleanliness in person
and dress. Doc. &. Cov. Sec. 42-40-41.
2. Effect of personal appearance in society,
in the home, and in business. 3. Clothing
of expectant mothers should be both
healthful and becoming. 4. Good effects
of early training in cleanliness and personal
appearance. 5. Fashions and frivolities
of Babylon should be discouraged. (Brig-
ham Young) Journal Discourses, Vol. 16
& 17 page 27. Doc. & Cov. Sec. 42-40-41.

[Column 2]
	Lesson 3rd. Economy and Industry.
	1. Economy and Industry are unfailing
sources of temporal prosperity. 2. Econ-
omy of strength, of time and of money is
absolutely necessary to success. 3. Thou
shall not be idle: For he that is idle shall
not eat the bread nor wear the garments
of the laborer. Doc. & Cov. Sec. 42-42.
Doc. & Cov. Sec. 72-29. Proverbs 19: 15.
II Thess. 3-10-11-12. 4. Begin early in life
to teach a child to love manual labor: the
educational value of work.
	Lesson 4th. Tithing and Fast Offerings.
	1. By the law of Tithing the land of Zion
may be sanctified unto the Lord. Doc. &
Cov. Sec. 119: 6. 2. Origin of the law of
Tithing, Lev. 27-30 to 34. Gen. 14 18-19
20. 3. Meaning of the term Tithing. Doc.
& Cov. Sec. 119, Mal, 3: 10-11, Prov. 3: 9-
10. 4. When and to whom Tithing should
be paid. 5. Promise to those who are
tithed. Doc. & Cov. Sec. 64-23. 6. Potency
of the law of Tithing. 7. Fast offerings. In
as much as ye impart of your substance to
the poor ye will do it unto me. Doc. &
Cov. Sec. 42. 30-31.
	Lesson 5th. Word of Wisdom and prepar-
ation of Food.
	1. Health, wisdom and knowledge are
promised to all those who observe the word
of wisdom and the destroying angel shall
pass them by. Doc. & Cov. Sec. 89.
Dan. 1: 6-21 inclusive. 2. The word of
Wisdom was given first as a principle with
a promise, but since that time it has been
given as a commandment. 3. Show the
injury and disadvantage resulting from non-
observance of this commandment. 4. Food
should be clean, wholesome, and well
cooked. 5. Avoid the use of fermented
liquors and strong spices in seasoning lest
an appetite be created in the youth for
strong drink.
	Lesson 6th. Review Entire Lessons.
	LOUISA B. BENSON, President, HANNAH
MICKELSEN, LUCY D PARKINSON Coun-
selors. ELSIE B. ALDER, Sec. and Treas-
urer. PHEBE A. M. MCNEIL, Asst. Secre-
tary-
			MORGAN STAKE.
	Lecture I. The Human Body.
	(a) The human body the home of
thought. (b) Woman’s aim a noble one
in life. (c) The human heart the pulse
beat of life. (d) A perfect being the
noblest work of God. (e) We hear no
sound of hammer but the building never
ceases.
		We are building every day,
		In a good or evil way,
		And the building as it grows
		Must our inmost thought disclose;
		Build it well whate’er you do,
		Build it straight, and strong, and true;
		Build it high, add deep, and broad
		Build it for the eye of God.
	Lecture II.
	“The world was sad, the garden was a wild,
and man, the hermit sighed ‘til woman smiled.”
	(a) Nature has no secrets. (b) How
to avoid transgressing the laws of being.
(c) Know thyself. (d) What beauty de-
pends upon. (e) Result of ill health. (f)
The mother’s influence. (g) How to

[Column 3]
avoid base thoughts. (h) The mother as
companion to the daughter. (i) The dan-
ger that besets girls. (j) Motherhood a
woman’s sweetest joy.
	“Men are more eloquent than women made
	But women are more powerful to pursuade.”
	Lecture III. Our Boys and Girls. The
Fathers and Mothers of the next Generation.
“Ah happy years who would not be a child again.”
	(a) Childhood, its joys and trials. (b)
Good seed brings forth good fruit. “As
we sow we reap’. (c) Every organ per-
forms a certain work. (d) Duties of moth-
ers in instructing sons. (e) Importance
of cleanliness. (f) Foundation of success.
(g) Earnest and living truths. (h) Plenty
of pure air and sleep the best medicine for
children. (i) Choice of profession or trade.
(j) Self sacrifice.
		“When you meet a ragged urchin,
		Standing wistful in the street
		Without hat and kneeless trousers
		Dirty face and bare red feet;
		Pass not by the child unheeded,
		Smile upon him. Mark me when
		He’s grown, he,11 not forget it
		For remember boys make men.”
	Lecture IV. Love, courtship and mar-
riage.
	“Man’s love is of man’s life a thing apart
	’Tis woman’s whole existence.”
	(a) Love the source of happiness or
misery. (b) Courtship the mere alphabet
of love. (c) Love and marriage duly ap-
pointed. (d) Woman’s love stronger than
death. (e) Life’s companionship. (f)
Desirable traits of character in opposite sex.
(g) Causes of unhappy marriages. (h)
Preparation for married life — Domestic
duties—Industry and thrift. (i) Sharing
common joys and sorrows. (j) Self cult-
ure and discipline. (k) Gentleness greatly
loved. (1) The art of adaptation.
“How much the wife is dearer than the bride.”
	Lecture V. Advice to the unmarried.
		‘‘Home is not merely four square walls
		Though with pictures hung and gilded
		Home is where affection calls;
		Filled with shrines, the heart hath builded.”
	“A home should be of one’s building—
Man erects the building, woman enshrines
it. Home sweet home.”
	(a) Marrying out of one’s natural sphere.
(b) Domestic happiness. (c) How to
make one’s self worthy of a good husband.
(d) Marriage means parentage. (e) The
enlargement of affections. (f) The little
one in the home. (g) Sweeter as a moth-
er than a wife. (h) Indelible impressions.
“The children like olive plants round about thy
	table.”
Lecture 6. Marriage relations.
	(a) Is marriage a lottery? (b) Expect
not too much from each other. (c) Cold
indifferences. (d) Remedy for discord. (e)
Duties and pleasures of married life. (f) A
woman’s greatest privilege. (g) Home the
kingdom of woman. (h) Self-improvement.
(i) Consecration each to the other.
Lecture 7. Heredity and how overcome. .
	(a) Shall we transmit health or disease?
(b) The universe tends to health rather
than disease. (c) Parental responsibilty.


(d) Home surroundings. (e) Healthful
food. (f) Cheerful conversation. (g) The
physical helped by the mental. (h) Do
children inherit a tende[-]cy to lie and steal?
	i) Improvement for the race.
Lecture 8. Infants, and the care of them,
	A babe in the home, a wellspring of pleasure—
	A child the precious gift of God,
		(a) Culture before birth. (b) Influence
of mother on unborn. (c) Bathing of the
infant. (d) How clothes should be fastened.
(e) Cleanlinese and health. (f) Warmth a
requisite. (g) Diet of an infant. (h) Mis-
cellaneous suggestions.
Lecture 9. Children and their diseases.
		(a) A happy nursery. (b) Terrifying sto-
ries. (c) Nurtured in love. (d) Be a child
among your children. (e) How to spoil a
good temper. (f) Teach by example, (g)
Bathing of children. (h) Dress. (i) Evil
effects of garters. (j) Nourishing food.
(k) Vegetables rather than meat. (1) Sim-
ple remedy for croup, sore throat, measles,
mumps, worms and boils.
Lecture 10. Accidents and their treatment.
		(a) Presence of mind in a fire or other
accidents. (b) Treatment for a scald. (c)
What to do in case of an accident to the
eye. (d) Choking. (e) Sting of a bee.
(f)To remove foreign bodies from the
stomach. (g) Treatment of a bruise, (h)
Treatment of a stunned child. (i) Poisons
and their antidotes. (j) To make a bread
poultice. (k) Taking count of the pulse.
Lecture 11. The sick room.
		(a) Perfect ventilation. (b) Cut flowers
for the sick room. (c) Calmness and self-
possession. (d) Sunny exposure. (e) Avoid
draughts. (f) Clean bed linen. (g) De-
sirable qualities in a nurse. (h) Sunshiny
disposition. (i) When to engage a nurse.
(j) How to sweep the room of the sick.
Lecture 12. Personal beauty.
		(a) Public appearance. (b) How to over-
come imperfections of the body. (c) Influ-
ence of beauty and happiness. (d) Beauti-
ful dress. (e) Expression and brilliancy of
the eye. (f) Care of the teeth. (g) Care
of the hair. (h) How to take care of the
hands. (i) The body’s greatest need.
			MARYETTE R. WALDRON,
						Chairman.
			EMMA S. CLARK,
			ANNA S. DICKSON,
						Committee.
LYDIA RICH, President.
MYRTHA TONKS,
MARY J. WELCH,
			Counselors.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


IN MEMORIAM.
	Resolutions of respect to the memory of Sister
Emma Welch who departed this life Jan. 24, 1905.
	Whereas the Lord in his Providence has seen fit
to call home one of his most earnest workers leav-
ing to us the dear memory of a sister and a friend:
Therefore be it
	Resolved that we the members of the Relief
Society of the Cowley ward offer our earnest sym-
pathy and mourn with the husband, mother and
children. We appreciate the help she was in our
ward as organist, and to our children as teacher
and leader in their amusements, and an aid to the
Young Ladies as well as President of the Relief
Society, and we esteem her faithful labors as
worthy of emulation by all. To know her was to
love her.
A living example of a true Latter-day Saint, she


always had a prayer in her heart and a kind word
on her lips.
	She was greatly loved by all her many friends
who admired her sterling qualities; but we know
if we are faithful we shall meet her again in that
beautiful home where sin and death cannot enter.
	We ask the blessings of the Lord on all those be-
reaved ones, may He comfort their hearts in this
hour of their separation.
	Be it resolved that we send a copy of these Res-
olutions to her mother, the EXPONENT and that a
copy be spread upon the minutes of the Cowley
Relief Society.
						Committee,
						SARAH M. CROSBY,
						ALVILEA DICKSON,
						CLAUDIA KETCHUM,
						SARAH PARTRIDGE,
						ESTHER J. MORTNESEN.


TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY SISTERS. 

When sickness and sorrow assail us, 
	And hope’s glowing embers burn dim; 
When we, for sweet comfort and yearning, 
	Are offering our prayers unto Him 
Who feedeth the lambs on the hillside, 
	And noteth the sparrows that fall, 
They come “In His Name,” these dear sisters, 
	With kindness and love for us all. 

When poverty looks in our window, 
	And we hear the grim wolf at our door, 
These sisters send food for our children,
	“In His Name,” are they blessed o’er and o’er.
Who can tell all the good they accomplish, 
	What blessings to lone ones they are? 
Their deeds are recorded in Heaven-
	In their crowns will shine many a star. 

The Savior’s example they follow, 
	Their works with His teachings agree,
“As you do to the least,” said the Savior, 
	"Just so you are doing to me. ’
Keep on with your work, do not falter, 
	Your aims are most noble and pure; 
Though your duties at times are most trying, 
	The reward my dear sisters, is sure. 

Much praise to you all should be given, 
	May God bless you ever and aye, 
And comfort when sorrows o'ertake you, 
	While traversing life’s thorny way.
And when your great missions are ended, 
	And you pass to the mansions above, 
Our Father’s dear arms will enfold you, 
	He will greet you with kindness and love. 

So sisters, press ernestly onward, 
	The poor and the needy to bless, 
"In His name," still your motto naught hnman 
	Can the worth of your deeds e’er express.
When aged and worn you are nearing 
	The end of the path you have trod, 
May the angels be waiting to greet you, 
	And guide to the presence of God, 
	ANNIE MALIN.


[Column 1]
		MRS. GILMAN ON PURE AIR. 
Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman contrib-
utes to the February number of the Spring-
field (Mass.) Good Housekeeping a pungent 
article on "The Home and the Hospital." 
She says in part: 
We despise the Hindu, dying of cholera 
for lack of sewerage. But we die at a rate 
of one to four for lack of ventilation. We 
have the white plague steadily killing us 
off in our most valuable years, costing us 
one quarter of our lives, and billions of dol-
lars annually;—a loss it has been calcu-
lated equal to our entire annual export 
trade. We die patiently of this, as our 
ancestors died of the other, and fail to see 
how swiftly we could end it if we would.
	Consumption like typhoid fever, is a dirt 
disease, but it is from dirt in the lungs.
 *  *  *	We have to learn to purify the air 
of our cities from its body of dirt, as we
[Column 2]
have purified the streets of "surface drain-
age;" and, more directly, we have to learn
not to poison it. 
In this part of the struggle sanitary sci-
ence must penetrate that well nigh invinc-
ible fortress, the home, and teach it not to 
generate disease. Building laws come first; 
proper air space, sunlight, room for physi-
cal decency and health of the inhabitants. 
Here is the hospital, taking in the wreck-
age of the home, and teaching it how much 
cubic space a human being must have; how 
many cubic feet of air an hour, and what 
kind of cleanliness is clean. Pure, white, 
sterilized and safe, with the inmates so 
guarded that even so guarded they do not 
further infect one another—this is the ex-
treme of human effort to allow nature free 
play in the struggle for health. 
Now what cannot the home learn of the 
hospital. It need not be full of sick folks.
If all the homes were what they should be, 
we should need few hospitals. It need not
be as coldly colorless, but beauty in house-
hold decoration can be obtained without 
our masses of dust generating cloth. A 
house could be as lovely as a sea-shell, and
as smooth. It could have thrilling beauty 
of color and of line, pure, satisfying pro-
portion, all manner of tender ornaments
and decoration, and yet not a needless 
thing in it. 
And, above all, it could have pure air, 
as far as it own contribution went. While 
we allow our manufacturers to poison us 
by wholesale with low-lying clouds of 
smoke and deadly gases, the home cannot 
be safe; but an intelligent spirit in onr
homes would rise up against that wholesale 
outrage as the men of old rose against the 
poisoning of the wells. Meanwhile, the 
home could at least see to it that it did not 
do its own poisoning. 
Here sits the family around the evening 
lamp; all dutifully getting the light over 
the left shoulder, for the sake of their eyes. 
The lamp meanwhile is consuming as 
much oxygen as one of the family. The 
furnace is going merrily, and the wind 
howls outside. All is peaceful and serene, 
and no one complains until a boisterous son 
comes in from out of doors.
	“Huh!” he says rudely; "why don't you 
open a window?" 
"The window is open down in the dining 
room," replies his mother, severely; "you 
have just come in from outside, that's 
all!" 
So he sits down in the family air and 
subtracts his portion of the remaining ox-
ygen as peacefully as he can, contributing 
also his portion of used-up air, that grows 
fouler and fouler as it is breathed and re-
breathed by the group, and no one notices
it.
	We need a cultivated taste in air—as we
have in music; a "trained nose," as well 
as a trained ear or eye. And we need a 
machine, an invention, a little scientific 
appliance, a thing like a thermometer—
small, pocketable, which the well bred 
could consult on occasion and say, "Dear 
me! The air has but eleven per cent of 
oxygen, and it's up to 86 with deleterious 
gas!" While we wait for the inventor, let 
the home learn of the hospital, and so es-
cape it.
	A place where people live all the time, 
ought to be quite as sanitary, as “antisepti-
cally clean,” as a place for sick folks. The 
hospital elaborately shuts the door after the 
horse is stolen. 
Who stole it?


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


THE STATUE OF MISS WILLARD.
The statue of Frances E. Willard to be
placed in the Statuary Hall in the National
Capitol, has received the last touches from
Miss Mears, the sculptor, and was in place
in a niche close by the figure of Washing-
ton, before February 19. On that day, the
anniversary of Miss Willard’s death, her
statue, the gift of Illinois to the nation, was
formally accepted by Congress. Senators
Cullom and Hopkins of Illinois, Beveridge
of Indiana, Dolliver of Iowa, and Repre-
sentatives Foss and Boutele of Illinois, and
Littlefield of Maine, delivered the addresses.
Next day the school children of Washington
were given a chance to visit Statuary
Hall. Each child to place a flower at the
base of the statue, and receive from Miss
Gordon a medal commemorating the event,
and bearing a miniature reproduction of the
statue. On the evening of February 17
the W. C. T. U. held a national commem-
orative meeting in Washington.
The statue represents Miss Willard stand-
ing, her right arm extended, the hand rest-
ing upon a reading desk; the left arm is at
her side, with a few pages of manuscript
in the hand. She is about to address an
audience; and the familiar pose of the head,
the strong, spiritual face, are lifelike.
Augustus Saint Gaudens, the former in-
structor of Miss Mears, speaks of it as
“showing in a way that it seems to me on-
ly a woman could do, the union of strength
with feminine gentleness—a quality most
tender and elusive, but which she has cer-
tainly infused in her work.” The pedes-
tal is of Vermont marble, and bears the
following inscription:
Ah! It is women who have given the
costliest hostage to fortune. Out into the
battle of life they have sent their best be-
loved, with fearful odds against them. Oh,
by the dangers they have dared, by the
hours of patient watching over beds where
helpless children lay, by the incense of ten
thousand prayers wafted from their gentle
lips to heaven, I charge you give them
power to protect along life’s treacherous
highway those whom they have so loved!—
Frances E. Willard.		—Ex.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you a
much as possible for your money.		 TRY US
Save Your Money!

[Column 2]
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
ings accounts.
The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to five thousand, and compute said
interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired. 
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest. 
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier. 
No. 1 East Temple Street.


ADVANCED RUSSIA.

	When the four thousand students and 
professors of the University of St. Peters-
burg assembled in mass meeting the other 
day, one of the resolutions that they passed 
unanimously was a demand for representa-
tive government and for a national assem-
bly to be elected by universal suffrage, irre-
spective of sex. 
This must have been startling to many 
conservative Americans, who have fondly 
imagined that the demand for equal rights 
for women were limited to a handful of dis-
contented spinsters in the United States. 
The movement is world wide; and the St. 
Petersburg resolution shows that it is fur-
ther advanced in some respects among the 
"intellectuals" of Russia than it is in the


United States. For there is no university
in America outside of the four equal suff-
rage states, where such a resolution could
have been passed by a unanimous vote. It
illustrates the truth of what Mrs. Katherine
Breshkovskaya wrote a few weeks ago:
“Educated Russia has become radieal be-
fore becoming liberal. The intelligent men
of the empire believe in giving women ab-
solutely equal rights."
It illustrates also the wide gap that exists
between governmental Russia and popular
Russia. It is only within a year that Rus-
sian women have been allowed to take a
medical degree without going abroad to get
it; and the Russian universities are still
closed to them, though “higher courses” of
study for women exist at St. Petersburg The 
mediaeval policy of repression and exclusion
represents the attitude of the government;
while the professors and students of the St.
Petersburg University vote unanimously
for granting women not only education,
but full political rights.		A. S. B.
Boston Woman's Journal.


MARICOPA STAKE.
Report of the Relief Society conference of
the Maricopa Stake of Zion, held in the
Relief Society hall, December 1st, 1904,
with Stake President Mabel A. Hakes pre-
siding, with a full attendance of officers and
members. Stake President Collins R.
Hakes and others of the Priesthood, also
Sisters Emma S. Woodruff and Sarah J.
Cannon from Salt Lake City. Opened with
the usual exercises.
Reports were given, with much charity
work having been done in cases of fire, etc.
The Stake had been visited with the excep-
tion of one ward up in the mountains, this
ward being visited during the summer.
The Relief Society work among the Lam-
anites is still going on, though this part of
the organization has been discontinued for
some time, they are beginning to see the
fruits of their former labors among the
young. The work in the Stake is pro-
gressing both spiritually and temporally
among those who are active in attending
their duties, they are greatly benefitted, also
by getting the covenant and command-
ment lectures. Mothers’ work has been
begun and is successful thus far. We were
pleased to have the visiting sisters with us
to hear our reports, to give us encourage-
ment and instruction in this great and im-
portant work. Teachers’ duties, care of the
poor, teaching children the law of tithing,
honoring the Priesthood and old age, were
topics spoken upon, interspersed with ap-
propriate songs and picnic at the noon hour
which was greatly enjoyed by all. Ad-
journed for three months with hymn and 
benediction. 
ANNIE E. FULLER; Sect


“Mrs. Katherine Breshkovskaya, the Si-
berian exile, now visiting this country, 
mentioned during her recent visit to Boston
an interesting fact bearing upon the much-
discussed question whether the Russian 
peasantry are yet capable of self-govern-


ment. There are in Russia two provinces,
Viatka and Perm, where there are no
nobles, and the peasants manage their own
affairs. These two “peasant provinces”
have the best roads, the best schools, the
best-paid teachers, and the largest number
of libraries and technical schools, of any
provinces in Russia. Every town in Viatka
maintains an academy for girls, and would
maintain one for boys, too, if the govern-
ment would allow it. But the government
permits only a few academies for boys. The
peasant girls who graduate from the acade-
mies become teachers, nurses, doctors’ as-
sistants, etc., but after all such places are
filled, there are many educated girls left.
These marry uneducated peasant men. But
it is noticeable, Mrs. Breshkovskaya says,
that whenever there is an educated mother,
she keeps her husband’s hut very clean;
and  she educates both her daughters and
her sons. Mrs. Breshkovskaya says the
peasants manage their local affairs with
much discretion and common sense, in
marked contrast to the stupid, wasteful and
corrupt way in which the imperial govern-
ment squanders its money and mismanages
all its business.”
	Lady Henry Somerset, in a recent article
on the simple life, says: “It would be in-
teresting to analyze how much real happi-
ness come to the man who has made or in-
herited a large fortune, and feels it neces-
sary to live in what is called ‘adequate
style ’ He builds himself a palace, engages
a troop of servants, begins to collect pic-
tures, furniture and objects of art, and he
little knows that he is heaping upon himself
a world of trouble. A man with a moder-
ate income, who has no requirements be-
yond those which he can well supply,
who lives in a house where his things give
him no anxiety, but in refined, tasteful and
simple surroundings, who can afford to see
his own friends because he cares for them,
and not a host of people who have to be
asked because it is the right thing that they
should be seen at his home, is the really
happy man.” 
	John Barrett, United States minister at
Panama, has given a fund to be used in
prizes for the best papers on the relations of
the United States with the Latin-American
republics. The prizes are to be open to
competition by young men and women now
in the regular courses of any college or
university of recognized standing in the
United States


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 33	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH, 1905. 	No. 9.


CONTENTS.
Biographical Sketch............R. C. Atwood. 65
Call for the Fifth Triennial Session.............66
A Birthday Celebration.........Maria Francis 67
Cedar City Items...............J. P. Mackelprang 70
Relief Society Reports—Panguitch Stake—
	Uintah Stake—Alpine Stake.......... 70
Mother’s Work:—Nebo Stake.............. 67
	Woodruff Stake—Bear Lake Stake..................71
Ensign Stake—South Sanpete Stake................72
EDITORIAL:- March Seventeen....................68
General Conference Relief Society..................68
Important Period of Time.................................68
Testimonial to Sister C. S. Williams.................68
Aunt Em's Birthday Party..................................69
Editorial Notes...................................................69
POETRY:- Woman..............Grace Ingles Frost 65
Remembrance.................................E. R. Shipp 65
	A Missionary Letter...................Ruth May Fox 67


WOMAN.

		BY GRACE INGLES FROST.

Great is thy mission, O woman,
	Value it well, and thy name;
Be all that God has ordained thee,
	And never thy calling defame!
From the side of man thou wert taken,
	Not from his feet or his head;
Walk with him shoulder to shoulder,
	Be thou not driven but lead.

Unto the man thy God gave thee,
	To be a helpmeet, a wife;
A mother of souls by him chosen,
	To taste of this mortal life.
Is then thy mission less worthy,
	Than that of thy brother–Man?
What is greater than motherhood,
	In all the eternal plan?

Great is thy mission, O woman,
	Thou it is rulest the world;
For thee man will mount to the heavens,
	Or down to perdition be hurled!
True, he is physically stronger,
	And ofttimes accounted more brave;
But strong as he is thy hand holds him,
	From the cradle unto the grave.


REMEMBRANCE.

	TO E. B. W.

No, the day was not forgotten,
	Nor my dear and honored friend
Though no word nor loving token
	Not a flower did I send,

'Twas remembered in the turmoil
	Of a very busy day,
Though my only tribute, prayer,
	Wafted heavenward away.

Ah! the flowers that bind our loving
	Do not perish in a day,
They have come by God’s bestowing—
	And as such know not decay.

Our affection budding early
	Hath become a glorious vine,
Nurtured by life’s joys and trials,
	Bearing blossoms most divine.

Faithful friendship is immortal!
	Unlike earthly flowers here;
It hath bloomed at heaven’s portal
	Ere it came mankind to cheer.

Please accept, though late the giving
	This small tribute to thy worth,
It is fraught with tender blessing
	All that’s good of heaven and earth.
	E. R. SHIPP.


[column 1]
	BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH. 
	RELIEF CRAM ATWOOD. 
	Biographical sketch of the life of Relief
Cram Atwood daughter of Josiah Cram and 
Deidamia Dutton Cram, born Jan. 17, 1820, 
Stodard, New Hampshire.
	My parents were honest praying people 
belonging to the Baptist Church and lived 
according to the best light they had received. 
They had twelve children (I was the tenth)
six sons and six daughters and they taught 
them to love and fear the Lord, and keep 
His commandments. From my earliest re-
membrance I had the fear of the Lord be-
fore me, the Bible was my favorite reader. 
When young I joined the Presbyterian 
church, but soon became dissatisfied with 
my baptism and was baptized by immersion. 
Soon after the Second Advent people came 
preaching the second coming of Chr st was
near, and when the Latter-day Saints came 
I was fully prepared to receive it. I shall 
never forget the sensation I felt the first 
sermon I heard, it thrilled through me like 
electricity. My mind was enlightened and 
I received the word joyfully. I was bap-
tized on the 10th of January, 1843. 
At my confirmation I received a testi-
mony that Joseph Smith was a Prophet of 
God. I rejoiced greatly that a communica-
tion was again opened between heaven and 
earth. Every princip e that was revealed I 
believed. I saw everything so plain and was 
so thoroughly convinced of its truth, that 
I prayed the Lord to take me away should 
anything be revealed to hard for me to un-
derstand, rather than reject truth. 
When the Word of Wisdom came, I was 
already in the practice of it; had kept it for 
many years, and have ever since. When I 
found the Church was organized after the 
ancient pattern it reminded me of a dream
I had when a very little child. It made a 
lasting impression on my mind. I dreamed 
the Lord came to me and took me in His 
arms and showed me a building, He was 
about to establish. It came to my mind 
with great force, as the Church of Christ is 
compared to a building. 
I was born in Jan. 1820, and Joseph
Smith had his first vision early the next
spring. My father and mother and brother 
and four sisters soon followed me into the 
waters of baptism. 
In the fall of 1845 I left my home, friends 
and native land and came to Nauvoo with 
my eldest sister and family with four other 
families from the Peterboro Branch in New 
Hampshire; when we reached there the 
Saints were all in confusion getting ready 
to leave for the wilderness, and the people 
were passing through great trials and many 
of the Saints apostatized and our enemies 
were threatening to drive us out, and my 
sister and family with three others who 
came with me from the same Branch turn-
ed and went back from whence they came. 
My sister and family tried to persuade me 
to go back with them but could not prevail 
upon me to go. To think of going forward 
into the wilderness looked dark but to go 
back looked darker, The spirit of prophecy 
came upon me, and I told my brother-in 
[column 2]
law in the name of the Lord, if he went back 
before one year passed by he would mourn 
and lament. He went and when about half 
way back he was taken sick,—too sick to 
proceed on his journey and one year elap-
sed before he was able to reach home, and 
everytime I heard from him he was lament-
ing that he ever left Nauvoo to go home; he 
died in about two years. No principle of 
the Gospel has ever tried me in the least. 
For I knew that I had the right spirit when 
I first heard the truth and all I heard look-
ed pure and Godlike. I am thankful that 
I never raised my voice against any of the 
principles taught by the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
	After my sister went back East I made 
my home with her husband’s brother and 
family that remained; in the following win-
ter I received my endowments in the Nau-
voo Temple. In the spring I sold what 
things I could spare and bought three cows; 
one of them I sold and bought what seem-
ed most needful for the journey. One 
cow I had yoked in a team, and the other 
for milk, and with the family proceeded on 
my journey into the wilderness. 
In the summer of 1846, we reached Win-
ter Quarters on the Missouri river and re-
mained there until the return of the Pio-
neers from Salt Lake valley. In Winter 
Quarters I became acquainted with the fam-
ilies of Brigham and Joseph Young, I 
found employment in the family of Joseph 
Young as seamstress. While there I was 
taken very sick with pleurisy and winter 
fever. President Young’s family were near 
by and hearing I was sick he sent for me 
and I was taken in an arm chair to his 
house, and tenderly cared for until I recov-
ered and was able to resume my work. Dur-
ing the winter I made the acquaintance of 
Millen Atwood, who was in the employ of 
President Young. He was called upon to 
go with the Pioneers to the valley and 
after his return we were married by Presi-
dent Brigham Young for time and all eter-
nity, in fulfillment of a dream that I had 
some time previously. 
In the spring of 1848 we set out in the 
company of Brigham Young and family. 
After a journey of four months we arrived 
in the valley of Great Salt Lake being the 
19th day of Sept. 1848. We found it a wild 
and desolate region with scarcely a tree or 
shrub except sage brush. My husband went 
to work and with his own hands made the 
adobies and being a mason by trade laid up
two small rooms. By some means he got 
lumber to cover the roof and plastered for 
a neighbor by candlelight and got six brok- 
en lights of glass for a window. Our floor 
was fastened down with wooden pegs in-
stead of nails. We moved in on the 25th 
of Dec. By this time the snow had fallen 
to the depth of a foot or more and the 
hungry wolves came down into the valley 
for food. One night they came and took a 
chicken from the back of the wagon where 
they were sitting. We slept in our wagon 
nights and staid in the house of a friend 
days, who had been more fortunate in get-
ting his house finished sooner, until we 
could finish our own. Our flour was nearly 
all gone; my husband worked and got a


[Column 1]

li[-]tle musty corn that did not ripen which 
served to help out our flour. In the spring 
we ga[-]thered buck wheat for greens to help 
us to subsist
	In the winter of 1849-50 my husband 
went with a company to Provo against the 
Indians who were making a raid on our 
cattle, he [-]eturned after a skirmish of three 
weeks with a load of squaws and children 
which were distributed among our people 
to care for. We kept one little boy five or 
six years old, until an Indian came and 
claimed him as his brother, and we were 
counseled to let him go, and some others 
were called for also. 
In the spring we planted a garden and I 
carried water from City Creek to water it, 
while my husband was tending a five acre 
lot which he had plowed and planted. The 
ground was as dry as an ash heap to the 
depth of a foot or more. He came home 
one evening tired and hungry, and some-
what dis[-]ouraged After partaking of our 
scanty meal we knelt by our bedside to offer 
up our evening prayer. After a few words
he broke out in an unknown tongue. I was 
electrified and was given the interpretation. 
It was a reproof for our lack of faith and to 
encourage us to renewed diligence by a pro-
mise that if we would put our trust in Him 
our land should yield bountifully, and our 
table hould be loaded with the best fruits 
of the earth. It did inspire us with new 
courage, and we saw that promise verified 
to the letter. I [-]et out fruit trees and in 
due time we had the choicest fruit in abund-
ance and our garden and field brought forth
bountifully
	In 1852 my husband was sent on a mis-
sion to England. I was left with one little 
girl and myself to care for. My first little 
girl having died a few months previous from 
the effects of a burn, and I came very near 
going out with her. After my husband got 
his "fit out" he had 80 cts. left which he 
gave me. 
	I took a few little children into my house 
to teach in order to help me to live. After 
a time the grasshoppers came in great 
abundance and destroyed the crops, so that 
breadstuff was very scarce I had a little 
patch of wheat on my city lot and the 
grasshoppers came and lit down on my 
wheat. I knew that it would soon be de-
voured unless something was done. The 
thought came to me to take my school
children and let them join hands and walk 
through the wheat. They did so and the 
grasshoppers arose enmasse went up in the 
air in another direction and disappeared 
over the mountains and never returned. 
My wheat [-]rew and ripened so I had some 
twelve bushels to help myself with and my 
neighbors 
When my husband returned from his 
mission to England he brought a sister with 
him whom he afterwards married. I had 
made it a subject of prayer that if he thought 
proper to take another wife I might be
reconciled, and do the things that were 
right by her. I dreamed that he had an-
other wife and that I was perfectly willing 
to divide what I had and that was but very 
little. My husband's wife Esther Young 
died in 1858, we had always lived together 
like sisters and were very happy. 
	My younge[-]t sister came to the valley 
and married Brother Jesse Haven accept-
ing the order of plural marriage and always 
lived comfortable and happy. 
	In those days we were obliged to make 
our own clothing principally or go without. 
I took wool on shares prepared it and made 
[Column 2]
it into yarn, cleaned it and colored it, got 
it ready for the loom had it woven, and 
made it into dresses, three different pieces 
at different times, also several pieces for 
men's wear; made the yarn and knit our 
own stockings, and socks, we also made 
our own soap and candles. 
When the Sabbath School was organized 
I had a class for many years, I was present 
at the organization of the Relief Society in 
the 13th ward, Salt Lake City, became a 
member; shortly afterwards was made a 
teacher and had that position until 1874
when I was made treasurer, and acted in 
that office until the year 1860 when my 
husband died and I soon left the Ward 
where we had lived so many years. In the 
year 1873 I went back to visit my friends 
in the home of my childhood, and in other 
places in New Hampshire, Vermont, and 
Massachusetts. I found a great change in 
twenty-eight years of absence my father and 
mother were both dead, one sister and two 
brothers dead, three brothers and two sist-
ers living. They were very glad to see 
me, and treated me with the utmost kind-
ness and so did my nephews and nieces. 
They listened to all I had to say about my 
religion. Before I left home Sister Zina 
Young and the officers of the Relief Society 
laid their hands upon my head and blessed 
me. Sister Zina Young told me that I 
should be filled with the Holy Spirit and 
my words should be convinc[-]ng. and I 
would allay a great deal of prejudice; that 
was all fulfilled to the very letter. On one
occasion I had been talking on some of the 
principles we believe in and was so filled 
with the good Spirit that when I took up 
the Book of Mormon to read I could see to 
read without glasses perfectly as well as 
ever I could. I had been obliged to use 
glasses for three or four years. I was told 
repeatedly that they believed and that some 
day they should come out to Utah but they 
never have as yet. It was like beholding 
their natural face in the glass; and when I 
left to come home, the Spirit and influence 
I had came with me, and had no lasting im-
pression. I still hope it will be like casti[-]g
bread upon the waters after many days I 
shall find it; since my visit I have been 
writing and sending them letters, tracts and 
sermons and church works and they are 
there still, but I cannot give them up, I 
believe they are of the House of Israel. 
	I had a dream many years ago, that a 
white sheet was held up representing my 
father's house, saying they were a righteous 
branch of the house of Israel. I know this 
work in which we are engaged is true, I 
have seen the signs following the believer, 
I have received testimony after testimony; 
I know it as well as I know the sun rises 
and sets, and the greatest desire of my 
heart is that myself, my children and grand-
children may all keep the commandments 
of God and prove faithful to the end. 
	My husband who had been Bishop of the 
13th Ward several years died December 17, 
1890 and it was after his death we moved 
from that ward to our present home. 
	Our children were Relief Eleanor born 
January 25, 1849, and died May 11, 1852.
Abbie Angenette born September 30, 1850, 
married John Sermon; Rosalia C. born 
October 18, 1858, married Lewis A. Kelch. 
Millen M born December 6, 1863, mar-
ried Mary Bird and is now and has been 
for some years, Bishop of Sugar House 
Ward, Salt Lake county. I have quite a 
large number of grand children.
	I have done work for my dead kindred,

[Column 3]

in Logan, and Salt Lake City Temples, in a 
line of ancestry for six or seven generations, 
and enjoyed it so much that it was among 
the happiest days of my life. I am now in 
my eighty-sixth year well in health and 
comfortable in circumstances and still able 
to enjoy my meetings with the Saints. 
					R. C. ATWOOD.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


CALL FOR THE FIFTH TRIENNIAL SES-
SION OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF
WOMEN OF THE UNITED STATES
	The Fifth Triennial session of the Na-
tional Council of Women of the United
States, will convene in Washington, D. C.,
April 9-15, 1905.
	The 9th will be devoted to special relig-
ous services.
	The 10th will be an Executive session,
the 11th 12th, 13th and 14th will be given
to the Triennial proper.
	The 15th will be the closing Executive
session.
	The meetings will be held in the Pythian
Hall, on Ninth Street, near New York
Ave.
	The Council Headquarters will be at the
Shoreham Hotel.
	The sessions will be divided into morning
meetings which will be strictly executive,
and at which the Council business will be
transacted.
	The afternoon session to which all mem-
bers of affiliated bodies are welcome, at
which reports from the societies and com-
mittees will be read.
	The evening session, to which the gen-
eral public is invited, and which will be ad-
dressed by eminent speakers of prominence
and ability.
	The President of each affiliated organ-
ization and Local Council is asked to send
the name and address of her Proxy, if one
is to represent her organization, to the
President and Corresponding Secretary of
the National Council
	Members of the Council elegible to sit in
Executive session are:
	First. General Officers of the National
Council.
	Second. The Heads of Cabinet depart-
ments and the Chairman of both Standing
and Special Committees.
	Third. Presidents and Delegates of Na-
tional Organizations.
	Fourth. Presidents of Local Councils.
	Programmes showing the distribution of
reports and speakers will be announced as
soon as final arrangements are made.
		MARY WOOD SWIFT,
President National Council of Women of
	the United States.
		FLO JAMISON MILLER.
Corresponding Secretary National Council
	of Women of the United States.
San Francisco Cal.


“Ohio has passed a law forbidding the
issuing of marriage licenses to habitual
drunkards or persons given to the drug
habit. Both bride and groom must appear
before the probate court and answer on oath
a list of questions bearing on relationship
extending back two generations, and on
their own moral standing. Judge A. D.
Miller of Lima proposes to enforce this law,
and refuses to issue a marriage license to
any man whose appearance indicates that
he drinks.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A MISSIONARY’S LETTER.

We are sitting under a bridge today
Hungry, footsore and weary,
Thousands of miles from home and friends,
Truly the world is dreary.

Under a bridge from fhe sweltering sun,
Writing a letter to mother;
Breathing each name as I write it down,
Father, sister and brother.

We are making our way, like men of old,
Telling the self-same story;
Tramping the sod with the word of God,
Winning nor pelf nor glory.

But still we are happy, mother of mine, 
And grateful for our mission.
Whatever we lack God doth supply, 
His Spirit lends nutrition.

Ye virtuous wives of American homes, 
Rest in spotless security:
You’re not the only women who stand
For God, for home and for purity.

Where are your sons who would travel like
these.
The world’s proud scorn enduring,
To bring to its homes a message of peace,
All wickedness abjuring?

Leaving their all but a trust in God
Imbibed with the milk of their mothers;
Proving the world without money or price.
Teaching mankind to be brothers.

O God, bless our sons in the mission field,
The Saints will forget you never;
Your sun will rise when the darkness comes
And set no more forever.
					RUTH MAY FOX.


A BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION.
		SISTER E. B. WELLS.
	On February 25th the Utah Woman’s
Press Club and Reapers’ Club met conjoint-
ly at the home of Mrs. C. F. Wilcox to ex-
press their love and best wishes to their
much esteemed leader, Mrs. E. B. Wells.
There were present as guests, their beloved
Sisters Bathsbeba W. Smith, and Julia C.
Howe. Much regret was expressed at the
absence of Sister M. Isabella Horne, who
was unable to attend owing to feeble
health.
	A presentation was made by Sister Ruth
M. Fox, in the name of the Press and
Reapers’, of a handsome spectacle case, set
in silver engraved with Mrs. Wells’ initials
and the names of the clubs, who donated
it.
	Some very appropriate and complimen-
tary words were spoken by Sister Fox in a
poem form composed by her for the oc-
casion.
	A fine program had been prepared—Miss
Ellis Shipp recited in excellent style, “Little
Orphan Annie,” by “Riley.” and Miss Olea
Shipp sang “Let Me Love Thee,” by Ar-
ditta, and the English ballad, “The Kerry
Dance.” Master Stevenson Wilcox played
several musical selections.
	Three of Mrs. Wells’ poems from her
book, “Musings and Memories,” were
given. Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas, in a musical
voice, read “In the Garden of my Dreams.”
Dr. Margaret C. Roberts read, very ex-
pressively, “The Wife to her Husband,”
and Mrs. Lillian L. Maeser, in her excel-
lent style, read “The Voice of the Moun-
tains.”
	President Bathsheba W. Smith spoke of
her long acquaintance with Sister Wells
and the close friendship extending over
many long years. Mrs. Maria Frances
spoke of her deep love and great admiration


for her; paid a glorious tribute to her work
for women. Sister Wells responded very
briefly. The flowers were simply sweet and
lovely and everything in the way of decor-
ating was dainty and beautiful.
	The refreshments under the direction of
Sisters Wilcox and Candland were excellent
and a credit to them as caterers, several
sweet young women assisted in serving
also little Claire Wilcox and Miss Eva Jen-
son
	There were about eighty persons in all
and it was a very delightful afternoon
gathering.
					MARIA. FRANCIS.


[Column 1]
		MOTHERS WORK:
		NEBO STAKE, 1905.

Lesson I.— Youth.
	“As the twig is bent the tree inclines.”
a. Honor thy father and thy mother. Exod.
10:12. b. In our youth the corner stone of
our lives is laid. c. How does prayer effect
the young? Doc Cov. sec. 68 v. 68. d.
Environments, habits, prayer, truthfulness.
Doc. Cov. sec. 93: 23 to 30. e. Respect. f.
Rights of others, g. Amusements for the
children.

Lesson II. Honesty.
	“Thou shalt not steal.” a. Be honest
with the Lord Doc Cov. sec. 119. Have an
honest heart. Luke 8:15; Cor 8:2; Rom.
12:17. How to teach children to be honest.
b. What does dishonesty lead to? To be
honest is a good foundation to build upon.
c. Should we tell a child he is dishonest? d.
Honest courage is worth more than wealth.

Lesson III.—Companionship, Fellowship, As-
sociation.
	a. Parents should find proper associates
for their children. b. Teach them the nec-
essity of keeping good company. “My son
if sinners entice thee, consent thou not.”
Prov. 1:10. “Forget not my law, but let
thine heart keep my commandments. Prov.
3:1. c. Should children be out after dark?

Lesson IV. Moral Purity.
	a. To be morally pure one must store one’s
mind with happy and pure thoughts, with
pleasant memories of the past and reason-
able hopes for the future. b. Guard
against impure language among the youth.
Avoid obscene pictures. c. Is there a lack of
confidence between parents and children? d.
Don’t let children be away hours at a time
and not know what they are doing. c.
Every child should be taught the laws of
personal purity. f. Do good manners lead to
good morals? Purity is better than ele-
gance.

Lesson V.—Home Influence.
	a. At home children learn their first and
lasting impressions. b. Our home should
be as pleasant as it can be made. Pleasures
and amusements. c. We cannot doubt, our
mothers knew it. Book of Mormon, Alma
56: 47, 48. d. Home influence, moral, so-
cial, religious. e. Teach the neeessity of
prayer and keepi[-]g the word of wisdom
and train in all the principles of the Gospel.

Lesson VI.—Obedience.
	Obedience is heaven’s first law. a. Obed-
ence produces confidence. Journal Dis.,
vol. 4, page 247. Obedience to God. to
parents and teachers. b. Take the greatest
care that our children obey while they are

[Column 2]
little. If we ask a child to do anything, let
us take time to see they do it; don’t neglect
them the first time. c. Let each child as-
sume some of the duties of the house.
Why?

Lesson VII.— Character.
	“Train up a child in the way he should
go, and when he is old he will not depart
from it.”—Solomon. a. Character is a struc-
ture we are all building. Honesty, faithful-
ness, sincerity and purity are the corner-
stones. Our minds are given us, but our
characters we make. b. Are parents re-
sponsible for the character of their children?
Youth is the springtime of character. Ref.
Exponent, Nov. 1904.

Lesson VII.—Charity.
	a. Charity for each others’ faults. Thou
shalt not bear false witness against thy
neighbor Exod. 20: 16. b. Do to others
as you would that they should do to you.
c. Love to our neighbors. Mark 28 to 30. 
d. Alms-giving. Prov. 16-17.

Lesson IX.—Rights.
	a. The rights of family members. “Honor
thy father and thy mother.” b. Provoke
not your children to wrath. Ephes. 6: 1-4.
b. As much as parents have children. Doc.
Cov., sec. 68-45, 28 v. Doc. Cov. sec. 88-4.
d: Obligations of children to parents. Juv.
Inst., vol. 4, number 2.

	Hearts will often open with ease,
	With very, very, little keys,
	Remember that two of these
	Are thank you, sir, and if you please.

Lesson X.—Family Worship.
	a. Who is the head of the family? Who
should lead in prayer? b. Should the chil-
dren take turns with their parents in prayer?
c. Is singing hymns and reading the Bible
considered part of the family worship? d.
Does daily family prayer have any influence
over children?
	Prayer is the soul’s sincere desire,
	Uttered or unexpressed,

Lesson XI.—Courtship.
	a. Its aim and effect. b. To better un-
derstand each others’ characteristics and dis-
positions. c. Teach the boys and girls that
the body is the temple of the spirit and they
must learn to keep it pure. d. How shall
they learn? Doc. Cov. 88-124-120. e. Teach
the necessity of exercise, cleanliness and
care of the body. Doc. Cov 88-124-121-123-
125. f. If fathers neglect to teach their
sons the important lessons of life the moth-
ers must. g. When shall our girls marry?
h. When is physical development complete?

Lesson XII—Marriage.
Marriage ordained of God. Doc. Cov. 49-
15 16-17. a. Necessity of marriage by the
new and everlasting covenant. Doc. Cov.
132-19. Should we obey the command?
Be fruitful and multiply. Gen. 1-27. b.
What is the object of marriage? Earthly
covenant of marriage not in force after
death. Doc. Cov. 123-15-16. d. Whom to
marry. “Be ye not unequally yoked with
unbelievers.”—Paul. e. Why should we
avoid intemperate companions?
(Signed)
		LILYUS PAGE, Pres. R. S.,
		HATTIE WRIDE, Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH, 1905


MARCH SEVENTEEN.
	The seventeenth of March is regarded now
among the Latter-day Saints as Relief So-
ciety day, being universally celebrated by
that organization. As the people of course
know this day, March seventeenth, is the an-
niversary of the organization of the Relief
Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith. 
	There were on that day, sixty-three years
ago, but eighteen members and the oldest
woman present—Elizabeth Ann Whitney—
was just forty-one years old, while Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith, our present president
was only nineteen. This fact will proba-
bly be a new idea to some of our women,
who think they have to be old ladies before
it is time to join the Relief Society. The
first organization, although young women
and many of them unmarried, did a great
work among the people in Nauvoo, both
charity and temple work, and the Relief
Society increased in numbers very rapidly;
in good works of course the progress was
marked, as the name and the object of the
Society are one and the same. The women
of Zion are greatly blessed in having this
organization, for it has been, and is of un-
told benefit to them in many, many ways,
intellectually, spiritually and socially as
well as helping those who need.
	The seventeenth of March is the
social occasion for the Relief Society.
How interesting it would be, if one had
the power, on that day to look at
all the different branches and see how
widely and delightfully the day was
being spent. Not only in Zion but in
the different cities in Europe, the Sand-
wich Islands, New Zealand, Australia,
Mexico, Canada, the Eastern, Southern and
Western States, and everywhere in the
world where the Latter-day Saints have a
branch of the Church there the Relief So-
ciety is keeping this day. Perhaps it is
an old time party, or a dramatic entertain-
ment, or a banquet, or a concert it mat-
ters not, so the day is remembered and a
good time prevails.
	The Relief Society on the seventeenth,
of March, 1842, numbered eighteen, on
the seventeenth of March, 1905, it
numbers thirty-three thousand. Success
to the Relief Society and may it continue
to increase in numbers and good works, and
may each seventeenth of March be a glori-
ous day for the women of Zion.
						A. W. C.


GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Salt Lake As-
sembly Hall in this city, on Wednesday,
April 5, 1905, meetings commencing at 10
a.m. and 2 p.m., as usual.
	It is hoped there will be a representation
from every stake organization, and a large
attendance of the members.
	The First Presidency of the Church,
Apostles, Patriarchs, Seventies, Bishops
and other brethren, as also all the sisters of
the various Church organizations are cordi-
ally invited to attend the conference.
	On Saturday afternoon, April 8, at 2 p.
m., an offi[-]ers' meeting will be held in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall. All officers in
the several stakes of Zion and missions are
urged to be present at this meeting, as bus-
iness of great importance to the Relief So-
ciety will be presented.
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
General President.
ANNIE TAYLOR HYDE,
IDA SMOOT DUSENBERRY,
Counselors.


[Column 1]
IMPORTANT PERIOD OF TIME.
	The important times in which the people
of this age are living call for moral cour-
age and great strength of character, in ord-
er to withstand the pressure brought to
bear by the momentous events transpiring;
in fact, one cannot help feeling that the
powers of evil are increasing in force, as
truth mighty and strong makes its march
onward more powerful. 
	Surely perilous times have come, accord-
ing to the prediction of ancient Apostles,
who said, “In the last days perilous times
shall come,” and men’s hearts shall fail
them because of the dreadful calamities that
will overtake the world. 
	Not only in the prophecies uttered by the
disciples of old, but by Joseph Smith, the
modern Prophet, who when given the vis-
ion of the judgments that were to come, in
the last days, were shown to him, asked the
Lord to close the vision, for it was more
than human nature could bear. 
	Every day seemingly increases the sum
of accidents by sea and by land, and without
the wars that are raging in foreign lands,
and the loss of life and property through
all these agencies, and added to this the ter-
rible diseases that come in many instances
because of the devastation by war and
bloodshed grow more and more horrifying,
and sometimes heartrending even to read. 
What must it be to be in the midst of scenes
so revolting to the human soul. 
	Yet knowledge increases and science
ploughs its way along all the old ruts giv-
ing newer methods of dealing with every-
thing that pertains to life and health, and
yet people are not happier though every
atom is explained with the minutest ac-
curateness, either by one ’ology or another,
but wisdom said to be the twin sister of know-
ledge has not kept pace with science and phil-
osophy or the world would not be left in such
darkness as it is with its great learning. 
The Bible says, seek wisdom and under-
standing, but wisdom comes from above and
is not learned from books and to obtain it one
needs to be clothed with humility and
meekness, and then the Holy Spirit may
enlighten one’s mind to a degree surpassing
the doctrines and precepts of even college-
bred men.

[Column 2]
	When the Prophet Joseph was only a
boy and did not know even how to ap-
proach the Lord he read in the Bible, “Ask
and ye shall receive” and he accepted it
literally and those who have read his his-
tory know the result of his faith and hum-
ility.
	This is the implicit faith needed in the
present day, to be able to endure that which
is transpiring round about, and that which
is within the borders of Zion, by living near
to the Lord and keeping in his confidence,
and in such accord with the whisperings of
His Spirit that one may get wisdom from
the fount of all intelligence.
	Job says in chapter 28, beginning with
verse 12; “But where shall wisdom be
found? And where is the place of under-
standing?” The verses following this text
explain the value of wisdom placing it far
above jewels and fine gold and continues;
“Whence then cometh wisdom? And
where is the place of understanding?” The
last verse gives the subject in plain terms.
“Behold the fear of the Lord that is wisdom
and to depart from evil understanding.”
Therefore if one lives a life of purity and
keeps aloof from all that would contami-
nate, the Lord will give wisdom and under-
standing according to his need, and even
if he be poor and lowly and without great
knowledge he may be filled with the light
of truth that will keep him from the dan-
gers and besetments that surround men and
women of the present time for as know-
ledge and learning increases, more and more
the evil one takes advantage to lead away
the unwise and unwary from the path of
rectitude and uprightness. Paul says, 1.
Cor. 17., “But to preach the Gospel, not
with wisdom of words, lest the cross of
Christ should be made of none effect.” In
verse 24 after comparing the Jews and the
Greeks he says; “But unto them which are
called both Jews and Greeks, Christ the
power of God and the wisdom of God.”
	Judging from the words of the Bible and
of the Prophet Joseph in this dispensation,
one can plainly see that if men trust in
their own great knowledge and ability and
have not the fear of God and the love of the
Gospel of Jesus Christ continually before
them, there is danger, but ever and always
prayer and humility are greater safeguards
than wealth or worldly knowledge. 
	The warning given in scripture applies to
us now “Let him that thinketh he standeth,
take heed lest he fall.
	And above all in times when there is
great opposition to truth and evil influences
abound, it certainly needs something more
than knowledge such as the world affords
to be able to cope with the powers of dark-
ness that at this time assail the Saints of
God. Paul said on one occasion; “Watch
ye stand fast in the faith quit you like men
be strong.”


TESTIMONIAL TO SISTER C. S. WILLIAMS
	The Seventeenth Ward Relief Society,
on November 15, 1904, paid a fitting trib-
ute to the retiring president, Clarissa S.
Williams, after her appointment to preside
over the Relief Society of the Salt Lake
Stake.
	The hall was profusely decorated with
chrysanthemums and the Stars and Stripes
conspicuously draped made a very pleasing
appearance. After singing, prayer was
offered by Sister Julia C. Howe, and the
new president, Fidelia Jacobs gave an


[Column 1]
address full of inspiration and love towards
the Guest of Honor; a solo was beautifully
sung by Sister Gwendolyn Lewis Little,
“If there’s sunshine in your heart today.”
Sister Abbie H. Cowly read very sweetly
the poem, “It is sweet to be remembered,”
Counselor Sophia Y. Nuttall, in a few well-
chosen words, presented Sister Williams
with a handsome and valuable book entitled
“One Thousand and One Gems of Poetry
and Songs,” and spoke feelingly of the
many gifts and graces possessed by the late
president, her modesty, honesty, loyalty
and sincerity of purpose, etc.
	Sister Williams responded by telling the
good things she really knew of her fellow-
workers in the ward, where she had presided
seven years and had been secretary three
years previously, spoke of their forbearance
when she first took up the work, and how
she had enjoyed being associated with them
in the duties of the society.
	Sister Elizabeth S. Wilcox, who had been
secretary some years while Sister Williams
presided, was glad to see the familiar faces
—it was a perfect joy to her. She referred
to Sister M. I. Horne, and her so often
quoting scripture to the sisters, how she
always enjoyed it. Sister Rachel Folland ex-
pressed her love for Sister Williams, they
had been girls together and always close
friends.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith had
thought much while listening to the sisters’
remarks, she remembered when they had a
little girl born in the house, and thought
the little girl had always been appreciated;
said how happy she was when she (Sister
Williams) was made president of the stake.
She knew all these sisters, and many more
who were not here, was pleased with the
remembrances made to Sister Williams. She
blessed all and asked the Lord to give them
His Spirit and guidance.
	Singing, “Too late! too late!”
	Expressions of love and esteem by Sister
E.B. Wells. Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde
made a very good talk on the work of
the Relief Society and her desire for pro-
gress and advancement.
	Sister Hattie B. Harker said had she been
called to labor as counselor with anyone
except Sister Williams, she would have
shrunk from the responsibility, and referred
to many pleasant visits made in the stake.
	Miss Afton Wright recited very daintily
“My Mama’s Precious Little Girl,” and
for an encore the “Forget-me-not.” Sister
Marcia Hyde spoke of the early days in the
ward, and her interest in the charity work.
She had been a teacher in the society ten
years, and was glad of the experiences.
	Sister Williams felt she wanted to be-
queathe some of her hopes and aspirations
to the present officers. She had, while
president, such an ambition to remodel the
Relief Society house; dreamed as it were of
doing something to the building. Referred
to the money taken, and told what the
Bishop’s idea was in this regard, and made
some statements of her own calculations as
to how the improvements should be made.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith spoke
briefly about the drawing of the plans for
remodeling of the house, and how she had
looked forward to it.
	President Jacobs had felt blest with what
had been said to those who were not mem-
bers to enconrage them; thought that
while she nad been counselor in Heber City
seven years, they had helped the Bishop a
hundred dollars or more.
	Sister Georgiana Fox Young felt glad

[Column 2]
that her attention had been called in this
direction (as counselor to Sister Williams).
When a child she had gone to the Relief
Society and helped to braid straw. Re-
ferred to Sister M. Isabella Horne as an ex-
ample for all women in the great work she
had done, also some other sisters.
	Sister Alice K. Smith was glad to be in
the Seven[-]eenth Ward; before she had not
taken an active part, conditions of going to
the meet ng were not favorable. Spoke
very feelingly of the Bishops of the Nine-
teenth ward, especially Bishop James Wat-
son, who was indeed a father. Sister
Smith expressed great emotion while
speaking on account of the death of her
beloved aunt, Amanda Kimball.
	Singing, Doxology; benediction by Sister
Sarah E. Smith.

[checkmark written by hand]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


AUNT EM’S BIRTHDAY PARTY!
	The party given on February 28 (as
there was no 29), 1905, the sisters of the
General Relief Society Board and mission-
aries at the residence of Sister Phebe Young
Beatie, was a perfect success in every par-
ticular, as far as elaborate decorations, gifts,
flowers and refreshments could make it.
The many intimate friends of the one
whom they met to honor were a joy to her
and to each other, and the choice senti-
ments of affection and friendship that were
given amounted to an ovation, to say the
least Beside delicate china, books and
flowers, dress patterns, gloves and handker-
chiefs, there was an elegant satchel, and a
magnificent birthday cake surmounted
with winged cupids and lettered, etc. The
cake contained a gold ring, silver thimble,
money and button (we may guess at its
meaning). There were some songs by Sis-
ter Margaret C. Hull and Maria Winder at
the opening of the exercises, and Miss Olea
Shipp accompanied on the piano, this young
lady also played “The Star-Spangled Ban-
ner” while the gifts were being presented.
Afterwards Miss Shipp sang “Little Chil-
dren Love the Savior,” one of Sister Wells’
compositions.
	These good, goodly ladies assembled on
this occasion in the hospitable home of Sis-
ter Beatie all looked very glad and happy,
as well as beautfful, and the event was a
sort of triumph to the donors; for there is
more pleasure in giving than in receiving,
	There were too many present to mention
by name, but suffice to say it was a fair
company of “fair women.”
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith and Honorary
President M. Isabella Horne were present
and spoke a few words of love and greeting,
and it was sincerely regretted that Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards was not well enough
to attend the gathering. These three sis-
ters are veterans in the Relief Society and
in the Church; they were members of the
society in Nauvoo, although only Sister
Bathsheba Smith was present when it was
organized. Sisters Horne and Richards
joined the society afterwards. These wom-
en are historic characters. 

	The harpstrings may be shattered,
	And the rose leaves may be scattered.
		But the memory remaineth;
	And the love that we have cherished,
	And the hope that we have nourished.
		The immortal soul retaineth.


Carmen Sylva, Queen of Roumania, who
has just celebrated her 60th birthday, opened
a refuge for old people and invalids to com-
memorate the event.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The regular monthly meeting of the Utah
S, S. D. R. was held in room 508, Temple-
ton building, Thursday, Feb. 16, 1905,
Mrs. Phebe Young Beatie in the chair. An
excellent paper by Mrs. W. H. King, con-
taining valuable information and a de-
scription of Mount Vernon, the home of
Washington. Mrs. Lucy Woodruff Smith
read a paper on Martha Washington
prepared by Mrs. Florence Scholes, now in
New York City. Considerable business was
transacted, and a good time enjoyed by
those present. 
	The March meeting of the D. R., Thurs-
day 16th, inst., was a good one, the Reg-
ent, Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, in the chair.
Vice-Regent, Mrs. Mary E. R. Webber, was
also present, and as guest, her mother, Mrs.
Charlotte F. Richards. After the transac-
tion of miscellaneous business, and the elec-
tion of Mrs. Florence S. Sears as delegate to
the D. R. Convention to be held in South
Carolina in May, 1905, the death of Mrs. 
Israel Evans, of Lehi, one of the D. R. 
members, was mentioned, and a Resolution
of condolence and sympathy to the family
offered and a committee of two appointed to
write and express the sense of the meeting
in the great loss sustained by the Society
and family, and the community in which
she resided. The papers were Major Peter
Schuyler, by Miss Catharine Wells, and
General Montgomery, by Mrs. Mary A. H.
Cannon, both interesting topics and excel-
lently well given. The meeting was very
enjoyable. 
	We have lately looked over carefully the
book, “School and Fireside,” by Professor
Karl G. Maeser, who was for years con-
nected with the schools of Utah, and later
was General Superintendent of L. D. S. 
Church Schools. His varied experience in
the wide field of scholastic education, and
his broad views as a man of superior intel-
lectual talents and ability, entitle his works
to a high and conspicuous place in the liter-
ature of our own time, and make them of
immense value to the student, whose aim is
to excel in the best methods of instruction
for a higher education and in all that pertains
to a better and more useful life for the world
of mankind. The extreme modesty of Prof. 
Maeser placed him almost at a disadvantage
during his lifetime, but like many other
men of great mental power he may yet be-
come more highly appreciated. The book
mentioned in this brief notice is for sale,
and the writer takes great pleasure in rec-
commending it as suitable for the homes
and firesides of the Latter-day Saints, as
well as for the Church schools. It contains
an abundance of information carefully di-
vided into subjects or topics, and one must
necessarily, feel mind and thought enriched
after the perusal of such choice reading mat-
ter. The spirit of the work is congenial to
a true Latter-day Saint, and one feels re-
reshed and invigorated, as well as grown
much wiser after feasting upon its contents. 
	We have received from the Neale Pub-
lishing Company, New York City, some
books suggesting reviews or notices, and
we feel quite willing to give favorable
mention of the books received. “The Grif-
fins,” by Mary Stuart Young, of Savannah,
Georgia, recommends itself in its dedication
to a large number of patriotic American
women. It is charmingly written, and its
subject of the colonial times and treating


of “My Lord Fairfax” of Virginia, and also
of many historic characters, both men and
women, is positively delightful. The book
gives one a good insight into London soci-
ety of that period, more than a hundred
years ago, and also of the Colonial people
of America interesting. The pages are
full of characteristic instances of
loyalty and also of strategy. It is replete
with vivid pen pictures of romantic scenes
and adventures, treating of love and war.
Altogether a safe and pleasing book for
young people, and can scarcely be called
light reading. It talks of old-time Christ-
mas dinners in Virginia and the South, and
of old-fashioned after-dinner songs.
	“The Yellow Jasmine.” This is a sweet,
pretty Southern story, and though entirely
different in tone and style from the Griffins,
is far above the ordinary in language and
sentiment. It is really an attractive little
volume, and one may conscientiously rec-
ommend its perusal. It shows Southern
life in vivid realistic pen pictures. The
moral tone of this story is healthful, and
one need not be afraid of the tendency; the
language is choice, and there is nothing to
incite anything but the noblest feelings. It
ought to sell well for public or private libra-
ries. The Neale Publishing Company,
New York and Washington.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


CEDAR CITY ITEMS.
Editor Exponent:
	The sixty-third anniversary of the organ-
ization of Relief Society was celebrated
here in the usual manner with meeting at
2 o’clock at which a well rendered program
was presented and appreciated by all pres-
ent. In the evening a dance for old and
young was enjoyed to its fullest extent and
a lunch was served in the course of the
evening.
	On February 4th, at the business meet-
ing, a reorganization of the Presidency of
our Relief Society was made. The retiring
President and Counselors, Sisters Thorley,
Armstrong and Jones, were desirous of be-
ing released, they having fillled the position
for eight years, and faithfully performed all
duties devolving upon them. Also the Sec-
retary, Sister Violet Urie, having been ap-
pointed to preside over the Primary Associ-
ation. Accordingly the following sisters
were chosen:—Relief Society Sister Amy
Webster Leigh as President, with Sisters
M. A. Heyborne and Maria Bullock, coun-
selors; Sister Kate Ryan, Secretary, Sister
M. A. Parry being retained as Treasurer.
The retiring Presidency have worked faith-
fully, both for the needy and for the bene-
fit of the Society.
	Financially the organization is in good
condition. The storing of grain for time of
need is one of the main features that the
Sisters feel interested in. We have up-
wards of 1000 bushels of wheat on hand at
the present time and as the people have
realized the benefit of it in the past a great-
er interest should be manifested in this un-
dertaking in time of plenty. For the past
few years there has been a scarcity in the
yield to the farmers on account of drouth
and last year on account of floods, but
when we reap a more bounteous harvest it
is hoped that we remember the time of
need and help to increase our storage.
	We have a large up-to date granary in
the course of construction, anticipating its
completion by next harvest.


The Mothers’ Work commenced some
time ago is greatly appreciated and it is
quite encouraging to note the increase in
attendance at the meetings.
	On the 22nd of February the teachers of
the Society gave a very pleasant Social to
the retiring Presidency at the home of Sis-
ter Thorley, presenting these Sisters with
tokens of esteem, purchased by donations
given by the teachers. Our teachers are a
body of energetic workers and as a rule ful-
fill their duties in a very creditable man-
ner.
	It has been a considerable length of time
since any report of our Society has been
sent for publication so that I take the pres-
ent opportunity of doing so in connection
with the report of celebration of annual an-
niversary.
			J. P. MACKELPRANG,
						Cor. Sec’y.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		PANGUITCH STAKE.
	Panguitch Stake Relief Society Confer-
ference convened at Panguitch, September
15, 1904, at 10 a. m. Commenced in the
usual manner. Three wards were reported. 
Sister Priscilla Smith of Salt Lake City
gave some very good instructions to the
sisters. Brother Giles gave an instru-
mental selection. Sister Clawson of Salt
Lake City spoke very good, giving good
instructions. 
	Stake President David Cameron spoke a
short time and President Elizabeth De Long,
and Counselor Hannah A. Crosby conference
was then adjourned until 2 p. m. Bene-
diction by Patriarch Joseph L. Heywood.
	Conference reconvened at 2 p. m., com-
menced in the usual manner. Speakers in
the afternoon being Sister Margaret H. 
Clark, Sister Mary Houston, Bishop James
B. Heywood and Sister Smith. Congrega-
tion sang a song, followed by the following
speakers: Sister Clara L. Clawson, Sister
Hannah I. Henrie, Sister Priscilla Smith,
Brother James Houston and Prest. Eliza-
beth De Long. Conference was then ad-
journed. Benediction by Elder John S.
Crosby.
	ELIZABETH DE LONG, President.

		UINTAH STAKE.
	Morning session. Minutes of a Relief
Society conference of Uintah Stake of Zion-
held at Vernal September 17, 1904. Presi,
dent Sarah M. Colton presiding. 
	Opening exercises as usual. Three stake
and seven ward officers present, Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp of the General Board also present
	President Sarah M. Colton was sorry
there were so few present, but it was a busy
time. Said we should call in the young
mothers in the Mother’s Work and help
them raise their families, for they are the
ones that will have to carry on this work. 
	Sister Hannah Odekirk reported Vernal
ward. Sister Mary Jane Hardie reported
Glines ward. 
	Nancy A. Colton felt glad to be able to
meet with the sisters, thought we could ar-
range our home duties so we could come to
conference; if we would come we would be
blessed of the Lord and our work would be
easy. Spoke of the Savior, thought we
should follow His example. 
	Sister Addie Longhurst reported Naples
ward. Sister Edna Cole reported Moun-
tain Dell ward.

[Column 2]
	Sister Ellis R. Shipp, one of the General
Board from Salt Lake City, felt well to meet
with the sisters and to hear the reports,
knew if we would trust in the Lord He
would bless us. Spoke of the mission that
we are placed upon the earth to fulfill, we
should be patient with our children, for the
Lord was patient with us, if we would at-
tend to our duties the Lord would bless us;
urged each and every one to be prayerful;
we were blessed above all people on earth,
and we should follow the example of
the Savior; asked the Lord to bless all. 
	Sister Trimm made a few remarks. 
Brother Edward Longhurst felt well in
meeting with the sisters; said this was the
first time he had been able to speak since
he had regained his speech. We should
live as the missionaries do in the world; re-
lated some of his experience as a mission-
ary; spoke of what a grand work the Re-
lief Society had to do; bore a faithful testi-
mony. 
	President Sarah M. Colton made a few
closing remarks. Conference adjourned
until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon session. President Sarah M. 
Colton said we had met to continue our
conference; we should not leave work un-
done; told the sisters their duties in the
Relief Society, and to observe the Sabbath
day, we should not make excuses for not
doing our duty that is placed upon us;
bore a strong testimony. 
	The names of the general and local offi-
cers were sustained. Some instructions
from the General Board were then read. 
	Sister America Orser reported Jensen
ward. Sister Rosetta Pearce reported
Maeser ward.
	Sister Ellen Karren was pleased to meet
with the sisters, it was the first time she
had met with them since her husband’s
death. She felt lonely and had been away
from home, and while gone did not have
the privilege of going to meeting, for there
was none where she was; said one does
not know the difference until they are
placed in such circumstances; urged the
sisters to be careful about speaking lightly
of the authority placed over them; we should
store our minds with useful knowledge so
that when we go to visit the sick the
Lord will bless us and also them. 
	Sister Maud Partridge spoke of the evils
that would lead to apostacy.
	Sister Ellis R. Shipp felt like endorsing
what she had heard; told of the blessings
we might receive in the Relief Society;
spoke of the time that the Prophet organ-
ized it and of the grand work that was
placed upon woman; spoke of the power
there was in prayer and of teaching the
young, virtue and purity and of what a good
name was worth, and for all to respect old
age; asked the blessings of the Lord upon
the assembly
	President Sarah M. Colton made a few
remarks and spoke of Dr. Shipp’s nurse
class which she had been teaching, that it
would be a blessing to us all, and of the
sisters gathering grain and taking care
of it. 
	Appointed next conference to be held at
Maeser ward, the date to be announced
later. Singing. Benediction by Sister
Flora Collett.
			ADDIE LONGHURST, Sec.

			ALPINE STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of Alpine stake was held at Ameri-
can Fork Jan. 20, 1905, President Rebecca


[Column 1]
Standring presiding. The stake presidency
were present, also the Relief Society stake
board and a majority of the ward presidents.
After the opening exercises, President
Standring greeted the sisters; was grateful
to see so many present, and wished all a
happy and prosperous new year. We
have passed through many trials and sor-
rows in the past year, but the Lord has
blessed us abundantly, and all He asks of
us in return is to give Him our hearts. He
will be with us and sustain us if we do our
duty. Reminded the sisters that our An-
nual day, March 17, was approaching, and
the fee is needed, for it is a great expense
to send missionaries to Mexico and Canada
and other distant places; she also spoke of
the Memorial building, and hoped the sis-
ters would contribute for that purpose this
year.
	The presidents were then called upon for
reports, and all the wards were represented
except Cedar Valley; all reported as in
fairly good condition, quite a number have
been helping to build and furnish meeting
houses, some granaries have been added
to the number, and the sisters have been
very busy waiting on the sick, helping the
poo[-], and working hard in many ways.
Meetings have been held regularly, with
good attendance and the Spirit of the Lord
prevailing.
	Connselor James H Clarke addrəssed the
meeting. Spoke of the evil of allowing
the children to be on the streets at night
who ought to be at home. Numbers of
parents seem careless as to the whereabouts
of their children at nights; these boys see
and hear many things that are detrimental
to them. Get them interested in reading
the Juvenile Instructor and other Church
publications; there is an influence about
these papers that is good for the children.
We are benefitted by good maetings and
good books, let the reading be pure and
good and it will have its effect upon your
children. Do not let them ling[-]r around
the doors of saloons or read improper liter-
ature. Keep them home at night and have
them retire early. Let us make the society
better that our children associate with.
	Singing. Benediction by Counselor An-
nie C. Hindley.
	Afternoon session.—Sisters re-assembled
at 2 o'clock. Opened by singing, prayer,
minutes, etc.
	President Standring felt doubly grateful
to see so many present. A question had
been asked whether those sisters who do
not attend meetings nor contribute to the
society should be continued on the roll.
The answer was, that their names should be
kept on the roll, unless the sisters desired
to have them removed. Spoke of the wheat
gathered by the society; the money donated
for wheat should not be used for any other
purpose, nor be kept on hand, but take the
money and buy the grain and take care of
it, for the day of famine will come, not from
the shortage of crops, but from the great
influx of people to this country. Arrange
circumstances so that the grain will be un-
der your own supervision, and ask the
blessing of the Lord upon it. Let us not
neglect our duties and the Lord will bless
us.
	President Stephen L. Chipman[-] The
best of us make mistakes, but it is a very
nice thing to work in harmony. We
should each of us understand our calling,
and not come in contact with another's
duty or privilege. The bishops feel that
the Relief Society is one of the strongest

[Column 2]
auxiliaries that they have for working
and helping to care for the poor. Sister
Standring is an old and efficient worker
in the Relief Society, and she is fully
able to counsel and direct the sisters. The
Presidency are well pleased with the la-
bors of the society, and are in accord wth
Preside nt Standring, and she is rightin
her instruction concerning the grain being
properly garnered and taken care of, and
the e should be no trouble in this direction.
President Chipman also gave s[-]me instruc-
tions in regard to the fast offerings; was in
favor of the Relief Society handling the
fast offerings as well as the Relief Society
funds.
	Sister Emma Rushton, of Idaho, sa[-]d,
Women who do not belong to the society
are behind in many respects, they are not
so capable and cannot apply these good
teachings, because they do not hear them,
an[-] cannot be so successful at home.
	Counselor Abel J. Evans.—We have a
right to receive inspiration. Let us be
loyal and true to each other, to our breth-
ren, to our country and to our religion. It
is a very serious thing to betray a trust,
for there are none who are held in contempt
like a traitor; let us not be carriers o[-] stor-
ies to the detriment of our neighbors. When
you find a Mormon that is true to his reli-
gi[-]n you may trust him. May the peace
of our Father be upon you in all your la-
bors.
	Counselor Annie C. Hindley desired to
apply to her own good the teachings that
had been given. The remarks have been
timely and excellent and given in the prop-
er spirit. Spoke of the children and
thought they had too much liberty. We
know that bad company is fascinating to
our yo[-]ng people, and should do our best
to keep th[-]m in the path of virtue and
righteousness. Thought we were not as
true as we should be to each other.
	Sister Zina Chipman, missionary, said
our reward is sure if we continue or labor
of love. It is not alone taking care of the
poor and sick, but it is the principle of obe-
dience that we must learn. What has been
said today has been for our good; we must
set an example before our children, by
which they will gain inform[-]tion and in-
struction that will make them useful men
and women. If we can only be proper
teachers of our children they will receive
that spirit that will make them wise unto
salvation.
	Stake Treasurer and Cor. Sec. Emma J.
Roberts made a few remarks upon the hab-
its of children, and read the financial report
of the stake for the year ending December
31, 1904, which was unanimously accepted.
Conference adjourned for three months.
	Singing, prayer by Counselor Harriet
Jacobs.
EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
MOTHER'S WORK.

WOODRUFF STAKE.

Lecture VII:—Infancy.
	a. Tell the influence a mother has upon
the Infant through the nursing period.
Dressing and care. Warn against drugs
and patent medicines. b. Necessity of
Kindergarten training in the home. Moth-
er should avoid unnecessary baby-talk, use
plain, simple language.

[Column 2]

Lecture VIII.—Childhood.
	“Train up a child in the way he should
go, and when he is old he will not depart
from it.”
	a. The key to success is love, wisdom,
faith and obedience. b. The growth of a
child physically, spiritually, and moral[--]
intellectually.

Lecture IX.—Childhood (continued).
	a. Teach the necessity of being com[-]an-
ions to our children, and joining the[-] in
their amusements, at home and other
places b. Teach that “too much indulgence
has spoilt many a child, too much love, not
one.”

Lecture X.—Home Training.
a. Teach the power of prayer, forgiveness
and charity for each others’ imperfections,
b. Honesty, faithfulness and purity.
Lecture XI.—Reverence.
	a. Reverence for the Priesthood and re-
spect for the aged. b. Study and teach the
fifth commandment.

Lecture XII.—Duties.
	a. Benefit derived from having our chil-
dren attend the juvenile organizations. b.
Reverence for houses of worship and good
behavior therein.
	Sarah Tyson, president; Alice Jackson
and Hannah Telford, counselors; Katie
Eppich, secretary; Pearl Brough, corres-
ponding secretary; Amelia Jackson, treas-
urer.

BEAR LAKE STAKE.

Lec, 1st. Home, Family Organization.
	(a) The father, his authority, his position
and rights. (b) The mother, her position
and rights. (c) The children, their posi-
tion and rights.

Lec. 2nd. Prayer.
	(a) Its power and influence. (b) Belief
and faith through the same. (c) When
shall children take part in family prayer?

Lec. 3rd. Physical Development.
	(a) Methods of proper bathing. (b)
Building a healthy body. (c) Proper food
and sleep.

Lec. 4th.—Moral Development.
	(a) Reverence for Deity. (b) Reverence
for places of worship. (c) Respect for pub-
lic property.

Lec. 5th. Domestic Economy.
	(a) What is it? (b) How may it be ap-
plied in the home? (c) Distinguish economy .
from stingness.

Lec. 6th. Marriage.
	(a) Love and courtship. (b) Continuality.
(c) The ability to make a home and care
for the home. (d) Marry one of your own
faith.

Lec. 7th. Social Purity.
	(a) How shall we create a higher moral
standing? (b) The aim of parents should
be to arrange and control the environments
of the young people, cure their faults, culti-


[Column 1]
vate their talents and develop their virtues.

Lec. 8th. Sacredness of honor.
	(a) What does it mean? (b) How to get
the children’s confidence. (c) How to up-
root evil by planting good.

Lec. 6th. Dress and habits.
	(a) Dress for comfort and health. (b)
How habits are formed? (c) Man a bundle
of habits.

Lec. 10th. Obedience.
	(a) Parents should set the example by
being obedient to their Heavenly Father.
(b) Children have rights which are often
called, “disobedience.” (c) All are not
gifted in the same line. (d) Do not force
children to learn something they have no
inclination or talent for.

Lec. 11th. What does the Mother read.
	(a) Mothers lack of knowledge. (b)
Mothers reading cheap novels. (c) Mother
as teacher to her children.

Lec. 12. Books as Companion and Teacher.
	(a) Minds are made up largely of what is
put into them. (b) What books should our
children read? (c) The influence of bad
literature.
	NANCY PUGMIRE, MARIA L. BROWN, A.
C. STUCKI, committee.

			ENSIGN STAKE.
				HOME.
	“He is happiest, be he king or peasant,
who finds peace in his home.”

Lecture I.—The Newly Married Couple.
	a. Beginning life in a home by them-
selves. b. Getting acquainted with each
other. c. Relation of husband and wife.
Respect each others’ feelings. d. Finan-
ces: Simple beginning. Personal allow-
ance for wife. Home expenses and saving.

Lecture II.—Hospitality in the Home.
	“Not the furnishings, but the friends
that adorn the home.”
	a. The unexpected or chance guest. The
invited guest or guests. b. Simplicity in
entertaining. c. Prize giving. Honesty in
gaining prizes.

Lecture III.—Idealism in the Home.
	“Hitch your wagon to a star.”
	a. Have high ideals even though you are
certain you may fall short. b. Industry
and system: “Laziness grows on people; it
begins in cobwebs and ends in iron chains.
The more business a man has to do the
more he can accomplish; for he learns to
economize time.” c. Cheerfulness and con
tentment. “The most manifest sign of
wisdom is continued cheerfulness.” “A
contented mind is a continual feast.”

[Column 2]
Lecture IV.—Idealism in the Home (contin-
	ued.
	a. Atmosphere of peace and rest. “Peace,
the offspring of power.” “Peace rules the
day where reason rules the mind.” b
Spirituality: Bible lessons with children.
Memorizing passages. c. Sabbath after-
noons. Value of prayer. d. Living the
truth. Honoring contracts  Give quota-
tions.

Lecture V.—Relation of Parents and Chil-
	ren.
	a. Home a Republic and not a Mon-
archy. b. Family Councils. c. Evening
Recreations. d. Family Loyalty. c. Pre-
varication and Deception. Give quotations.

Lecture VI.—Who is the Wise Mother?
	a. The over-domestic mother. b. The
“tea” going or sewing-club mother. c.
The meeting going mother. Where are the
children while the mothers are following
their fads?

	“The instruction received at the moth-
er’s knee, and the paternal lessons, together
with the pious and sweet souvenirs of the
fireside, are never effaced entirely from the
soul.”
	Committee: Sarah S. Stewart, Margaret
C. Roberts, Elizabeth S. Wilcox.
	Margaret A. Romney, president; Annie
K. Hardy, secretary.

SOUTH SANPETE STAKE (continued).

Lecture 7.—Infancy.
	(a) Physical care and training of chil-
dren during infancy or the first three years
of life. (b) Necessity of careful feeding af-
ter the weaning period, especially through
teething. (c) Food should be nourishing,
avoiding meat and pastry. (d) Piecing to
be avoided as much as possible. (e) Plenty
of fresh air; clothing should be suitable for
season. Thick soled shoes for outdoor
wear.

Lecture 8.—Mental and Moral Training.
	(a) Children hould be taught early to
respect each other’s rights and not appro-
priate indiscriminately the rights belonging
to others. (b) Should also be taught obed-
ience by kindness and firmness. (c) A
stubborn child should be antagonized as lit-
tle as possible till it reaches the years of 
accountabiilty. (d) Be quick to praise and
slow to blame. (e) Avoid corporal pun-
ishment till all other means fail. Necessity
of self-control for the mother. (f) Patience
one of the chief virtues.

Lecture 9.—Home Life of Children.
	(a) Necessity of making home pleasant.
(b) Every mother should have time to
teach and play with her children. (c)
Teach them early to pray and ask the

[Column 3]
blessing on the food; also to be helpful and
unselfish. (d) Require them to put away
their own playthings, mistaken kindness
to give them too many toys. (e) Allow
them to have simple little parties occasion-
ally, thus training them in unselfishness,
hospitality and good manners. (f) Import-
ance of religious training and regular at-
tendance at Sunday school.

Lecture 10.—School Life.
	(a) School life of children from six to
ten. (b) Teach them to respect their teach-
ers and avoid criticism in their hearing.
(b) Train them early to do everything pos-
sible for themselves in getting ready for
school. (d) Impress upon them the neces-
sity of neatness, punctuality and obedience.
(e) If it is necessary to take lunch, see that
it consists of nourishing, healthful food,
that their minds and bodies may be strong
and active. Teach them that purity of
thought and action is essential.

Lecture 11.—Training.
	(a) Training of children during the criti-
cal period between the ages of ten and six-
teen. (b) Emphasize the moral and relig-
ious training previously given. (c) Warn
them of the dangers of evil companionship.
(d) Encourage them to confide their trials
and temptations to you. (e) See that they
have innocent amusements at proper times
and places. (f) Keep them off the street at
night, (g) Avoid late hours and late sup-
pers. (h) Mothers should be especially
patient with children of both sexes dur-
ing the period of puberty. (i) The im-
portant changes going on in their systems
causing them to be irritable and unreason-
able. (j) We should also be careful in
teaching the girls to take proper care of
their bodies and the danger of exposure to
cold. (k) Make companions of both boys
and girls, and encourage them to trust and
confide in you. (l) Wise and judicious
mothers are the hope of the nation.

Lecture 12.—Summary of Previous Lec-
	tures.
	(a) All the most important points to be
reconsidered. (b) Mothers should never
be too busy or too worried to listen to their
children’s troubles or answer their ques-
tions. (c) Should always remember the
priceless privilege of training immortal
souls.
			ALVIRA L. COX,
		President Relief Society.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
much as possible for your money. TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion's Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to five thousand, and compute said
interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 East Temple Street.


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
Vol. 33
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL, 1905.
No. 10.


CONTENTS.
Woman's Voice................Mary A. Winters 73
Elias ...........................Annie Wells Cannon 73
The Dome Berlin .....................L. D. Alder 73
MOTHER'S Work:—Big Horn Stake............ 74
	Sevier Stake ......................................... 74
	Wasatch Stake .................................... 77
A Biographical Sketch of Sister Ellen Sem-
	moins Harrison .................................... 78
In Memoriam—Phoebe Campbell Atkinson—
	Kirsten Forgerson Anderson .................. 78
Annual Day, Archer, Idaho ........................ 78
Extracts...................... President Roosevelt 79
The Venice Assembly ................................. 80
Editorial:—General Conference—A Happy
	Birthday Party—A Pleasant Birthday...... 76
	Editorial Notes— ................................ 77
Relief Society Reports ................................ 77
POETRY:—An Easter Song......... .....A. W. C. 73
	I Am Human ...........................C. P. G. 75


AN EASTER SONG.

In Easter time the breezes blow,
In Easter time the lilies grow,
The sun gives forth a warmer glow.
In Easter time.

In Easter time the robins sing.
In Easter time the swallows bring
Into their nests a wee warm thing
In Easter time.

In Easter time young hearts beat true,
In Easter time fair lover’s woo, 
Awakening thoughts so old, yet new
In Easter time.

In Easter time the world is bright,
In Easter time earth breathes delight,
For past and gone is winter’s blight,
In Easter time.

A. W. C.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

[For THE EXPONENT.]
Dear Editor:—I desire to say a few words
through the columns of your paper to my
faithful brethren and sisters throughout the
land. Our enemies have asserted that there
is over a million dollars in tithing paid this
year. O how it makes my heart rejoice to
know that there is this amount pl[-]ced in
the hands of the Prophet of God for the
good of the Church. Our good hymn says,
“We Thank Thee, O God for a Prophet.”
Now I know that Joseph Smith was a Pro-
phet of God, and I also know that the man-
tle has rested on everyone of his successors,
and my confidence is such in the present
one, that not one dollar of that goodly
amount will ever be used unrighteously.
In the next place my soul is lifted up in
thankfulness to our Heavenly Father that
there are so many faithful ones on the earth
at the present time, that believe and obey
the law of tithing. And then what satis-
faction it gives me to think of the prosperi-
ty that this means to Zion; for has not the
Lord said, “Try me and see if I will not
open the windows of Heaven and pour
out blessings upon you.” Then rejoice
ye faithful ones in the prosperity of Zion
in every way, for who can stay the work of
the Lord? My prayer is that the erring
may repent, and that the faithful may en-
dure to the end.	
	Teach the children to pay their tithing.
		Your sister in the covenant of peace,

MARY A. WINTERS.


ELIAS:
		AN EPIC OF THE AGES.
	Such is the title of Bishop Orson F.
Whitney’s latest and most wonderful poem.
	When, about two years ago, a few friends
—fifty, perhaps, in number—were invited
to the home of Col. N. W. Clayton to
listen to the reading of a new poem by
Bishop Whitney, they little dreamed of the
great and unusual pleasure awaiting them,
this pleasure turned to wonder and deeper
admiration as they began to realize the
meaning of this invitation,—that Bishop
Whitney would himself unfold to them a
work, the fruit of many months’ labor, em-
bodying his deepest thought and inspira-
tion, displaying in its fullest his poetic
genius and spiritual nature.
	This first reading lasted several evenings,
sometimes interspersed with music appro-
priate to the theme dwelt upon, and as
the friends listened, their wonder and ad-
miration grew.
	It was the story of the world in its differ-
ent ages and phases as the Latter-day
Saints know it, told in rhythmic verse.
	The rich deep voice and impressive man-
ner of the author as he read to his friends
verse after verse of his poem, unfolding to
them the thoughts of his mind, was like
the leaves of a flower unfolding to the sun,
disclosing the heart therein.
	The readings became one of the social
events of that winter, and so much interest
in the work was awakened, that later in
the winter Bishop Whitney’s friends, by
the courtesy of President Joseph F. Smith,
arranged for a second series of readings to
take place in the beautiful parlors of the
Bee Hive House.
	The audience this time was much larger
and included many of the most prominent
men and women of the church and state.
The readings were quite dramatic in char-
acter, while the music was most appropri-
ate and beautiful.
	Following these readings was a desire by
the author’s friends to possess a copy of the
poem themselves, and steps were immedi-
ately taken to have it presented to the
public in fitting form, the result being that
a most beautiful edition de luxe, consisting
of a limited number of copies, was issued
for subscribers, while a very handsome but
cheaper edition is now ready for the public
	A review of the work in detail is scarce-
ly necessary. It is a religious epic in
twelve cantos, and is the only work of the
kind ever published by a Utah writer. The
poem throughout is graceful in style, pro-
phetic in theme, and in the thought, sub-
lime. It realizes the dream of the anthor,
for “assuredly that harp is now thine own.”
Now that tire poem in beautiful illustrated
volumes is launched on the public sea, may
it have a successful voyage and bring the
author rich returns for his work.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


Susan Coolidge, author and poet has re-
cently died in Newport, R. I., aged 70.


THE DOME BERLIN.

	On Feb. 27, 1905, in Berlin, the grand
building known as the “Dome,” was dedi-
cated, in the presence of the Kaiser, Kaizer-
ine, members of the royal household, a rep-
resentative from each country, a minister
from each Christian denomination except
one, and some invited guests. Immedi-
ately on the entrance of the Kaizer into the
building, all the church bells of Berlin,
Charlottenburg and other suburbs rang
their clanging sound, filling the air for some
minutes. About an hour afterwards, when
the dedication was over, the ringing was
resumed, this time louder as with rejoicing.
	Two social functions, given by the Em-
peror, in the White Hall of the Imperial
Palace, followed. The first on the evening
of the same day, was a dinner in honor of
the representatives and clergy. The other
was a military ball.
	On Wednesday, March 1, the Dome was
thrown open to the general public for four
days, from 11 a. m. until 2 p. m., after
which it was first decided it would be closed
indefinitely, it being said it would require
five years in which to finish it. Since then
it has been decided it shall remain open.
The base of the outside walls is of granite;
this is surmounted by a dark gray, smooth
stone, it is said a manufactured article. The
edifice presents a fine appearance, being
richly ornamented on turrets and dome, by
crosses of gold and other golden and stone
decorations.
	The papers criticize the building rather
severely, say its design is from all styles of
architecture, consequently has none, and is
of a dead color. Be that as it may, there
it stands in the Schloss Platz (castle place),
on the banks of the Spree, an imposing
monument to the Hohenzolleran dynasty.
The interior is divided into three churches
or chapels. The first one entered is to be
used for marriage, the clasped hands on the
ceiling designates this cerem ny. The up-
per walls and ceiling are beautifully painted,
the colors suitable no doubt to the purpose
for which the room was designed. The
altar unadorned, seems colorless, the gray
brown of the outer walls looking dingy on
the inside, but the final embellishments will
no doubt harmonize and express the design
of the artist.
	The center part is the main church and
will seat in the neighborhood of four hun-
dred people. The altar is unfinished, but
the three windows of stained glass above it,
situated in the circle of the dome, are ex-
quisitely colored. The center one is that
of the crucifixion, but the beautiful tints
mercifully rob it of the agony usually de-
picted on the face of the Redeemer. The
window on either side shows a delicate
blending of the richest colors, especially the
purple of the robe worn by Christ; the
gallery, facing the altar, is for the use of
the Kaizer and family, and is on a line with
the windows before described. Some royal
insignia denotes who are its occupants.
	Immediately over the door leading into
the crypt room is the organ, also on a line
with the gallery and windows and rising


another story above them, making a beauti 
ful appearance.
	Then comes the burial chapel. This is 
of spacious dimensions, a stone sarcopha-
gus in the center denotes where the casket
is to rest while the funeral rites are being
solemnized. A wide, elegant stairway leads
down to the crypts where it is said the finest
work of the building is to be seen. The
crypt is built, perhaps on the ground level,
the building being high enough above it to
admit of this. Also this may be necessary,
as the back is built on the bank of the river
Spree.
	This chapel is very large and in a most
unfinished condition. The Dome is the
outgrowth of a desire of the Hohenzollerans
for generations to erect a suitable place for
the royal dead. It is thus far realized. What
Westminster Abbey is to England the Dome
will be to Germany. It is said the Kaizer
himself is to be its first occupant. When
properly finished with inside decorations and
hangings, it will be magnificent.
	Thousands of people weie admitted each
day that it was open. At times the line ex-
tended from the entrance around and
down the whole length of one side, four
abreast. Many policemen kept order, and
divided the line, so that about forty were
admitted at once. It happened that the line
was drawn right in front of the Utah party,
who thus lead the contingent, then going
through.
	Of course compared with Westminster
Abbey, the building is modern, but this
fault will be corrected in time when perhaps
the Abbey is no more. 
				LYDIA D. ALDER.
	Berlin, March, 1905.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		MOTHERS’ WORK.

		BIG HORN STAKE.
Lecture I.—Charity.
	First—“Charity shall cover the multitude
of sins.”—I Peter 4:8.
	Second—“And though I bestow all my
goods and give my body to be burned and
have not eharity, it profiteth me nothing.—
I Cor. 13:3.
			AVILDIA DICKSON.

Lecture II.—Mother’s Love and Influence.
	The influence the mother has upon the
child before and after birth cannot be esti-
mated. A mother’s love cures the pains
and ills of childhood, soothes the pangs of
youth, comforts and inspires man through
the battles of life. A mother can keep the
confidence of her children by listening to
them while they are small, and they will
continue to confide in her when they be-
come larger and by inviting their confidence
she can direct them aright. The desire of
every true mother is to do good in the
world, and she can do this best by rearing a
family who are strong, intelligent and God-
fearing. Day by day a mother has the op-
portunity of implanting high or low ideals,
true or false ambitions in the child. A true
mother will make a happy home whether
poor or rich, peace, love, and contentment
come from within and make our environ-
ments.
	The influence of a mother upon her fami-
ly is in proportion to the love existing be-
tween herself and family. Great men at-
tribute their success to their mother’s influ-
ence. Mother’s love is the sweetest and

[Column 2]
purest of all human affections, do not be
afraid to lavish it upon your children; it
makes your memory a hallowed one, and
gives you power to influence their lives.

			Questions.
	Give examples of the world’s great men
who attribute their success to their mother’s
influence.
	How can a woman do the most good in
the world?
	Show why a loving mother can influence
her child more than anyone else.
				SARAH M. CROSBY.

Lecture III.— What to teach our Boys.
	(a) Should teach them to have faith in
our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, that He
will hear and answer prayers, love for our
religion and other instructions. Teach
them purity, energy, and that good habits
are worth more than riches. (b) To have
an object or purpose in life and to work with
a will to accomplish that purpose. (c)
Honor, refer to the fifth commandment. (d)
That marriage is ordained of God unto man.
	(1st) Explain the action of work on de-
veloping morals. (2nd) Explain the action
of food on muscle and brain. (3rd) Ex-
plain the action of tobacco and liquor on
muscle and brain. (4th) Explain the action
of tea, coffee, high seasoned food. (5th)
Show how diseases of one part of the body
make all the body ill by illustration.
				JESSIE TAGGART.

Lecture IV.— What to tell our Girls.
	It is one thing to possess knowledge and
quite another thing to impart it to others.
We should teach our girls to read good books
and choose good companions, warn her
against vulgar stories she may hear; ask
her to tell you everything her playmates may
tell her, then you will have a chance to cor-
rect errors and warn her against impure
teachings and harmful associates, as well as
lay a foundation for future confidence and
close companionship. They should be
taught to keep both mind and body clean
and pure. Teach them to be good home
makers in the true sense of the word, and
to be neat and tidy is always in good taste,
				JESSIE TAGGART.

Lecture V.—Peace Making.
	First—“Blessed are the peace makers for
they shall be called the children of God,”—
Matt. 5: 9.
	Second—“Live in peace and the God of
love and peace shall be with you.”—II
Cor. 2: 11.
				AVILDIA DICKSON.

Lecture VI.—Motherhood and Maternity.
	O wondrous power! how little understood
	Entrusted to the mothers’ mind alone
	To fashion genius, form the Soul for good;
	Inspire a West or train a Washington.

	(a) How can we best prepare for mother-
hood? (b) Observing the word of wisdom
as essential to physical development. (c)
The gospel as essential to spiritual develop-
ment. (d) The development of the mother
as affecting the unborn child. How can
we overcome hereditary weakness? (e) What
effect will obedience to the moral law have
npon our offspring. (Ref. St. Matthew I-24
also Heb. 12-9. Rev. 12: 7-17. (f.) How
does child bearing affect the Latter-day

[Column 3]
work? (g) How does it affect our exalta-
tion?
			SARAH M. CROSBY.

Lecture VII.— Word of Wisdom.
	a. Ref. Doctrine and Covenants Sec. 86.
	b. Observance of same.
	c. Its effects on the home.
	1st. What is the word of wisdom?
	2nd. Does it treat only on tea and coffee.
	3rd. The effect it has on the mind and
body by observing it.
	4th. Given now as a commandment. Ref.
Young Womans Journal, Feb. 1904 Junior
Department.
	5th. Promises given by observing Sam.
Ref. Sec. 89 verses 19: 20-21.
			LAURA M. RAPPLEYE.

Lecture VIII.—Obedience.
	Necessity of its Enforcements.
		From childhood to girlhood
		Maid mother and wife
		All need to be obedient
		To guide them properly through life.
	1st. Why should the lesson of Obedience
be taught in early childhood.
	2nd. How will it effect the progress of a
Latter-day Saint?
	3rd. Why is it necessary for our spiritual
progress?
	4th. How should Obedience be taught?
					ANNIE PARRY.

Lecture IX.—Reverence.
	(a) True reverence acceptable to God is a
filial fear, a reverence of divine nature pro-
ceeding from a just esteem of His perfect-
ions; producing in us an inclination to do
His will and serve Him.
	(b) We reverence superiors and age; we
honor authority; we love virtue.
	(c) We should revere our parents with a
submissive, humble spirit, respecting and
honoring them for the many sacrifices they
make for us.
	(d) A wife should reverence her hus-
band. In chiding children for faults, we
should do it with love—love should govern
the human heart.
	(e) Religion produces a reverential esteem
for all sacred things. We should revere
the law of God and be submissive to all the
requirements. Ref. Improvement Era, Juv-
enile Instructor, Young Ladies Journal and
Children’s Friend.
				SARAH M. CROSBY.

Lecture X.—Prayer.
	1st. Sincere prayer is the greatest safe-
guard against wrong doing.
	2nd. How does the habit of prayer ef-
fect the lives of boys and girls.
	3rd. How and when should we pray? Doc-
trine and Covenants, Sec. 61 verse 39
Guide Journal, August 1901.
				AVILDIA DICKSON.

	LUCY F. GRANT. President, AVILDIA
DICKSON, CHLOE B. LEE, Counselors,
SADIE PARTRIDGE, Secretary.


Lady Marjorie Erskine has entered a
children’s hospital as a child’s nurse, and
will be known as Nurse Erskine. A sister
of the Duke of Sutherland entered a large
London hospital, wishing to perform simi-
lar service, but had not health to continue.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.	75


I AM HUMAN.

I was deprived in childhood—robbed of my birth-
	right fair!
I have never had what belonged to me, and they
	stole from my scanty share.
I have suffered—oh, how I have suffered! Outrage
	and loss and pain!
Are the Heavens deaf? Is God a lie, that such
	black wrongs remain?

What matter! ah, what matter! what shall it count
	to me?
These things that “I” have suffered—what is that
	I to “We”?
We—we who are human — life that is old as
	Time—
Life of the blended nations; life that is now sub-
	lime!
Life that has buried billions and poured forth bil-
	lions more—
Life that has suffered for ages, and rejoices as
	never before!
Life that carries its evils, disease and sorrow and
	sin.
By the power of eternal progress—the progress we
	all are in;
That bears with its weak and little, its errors of
	church and state,
By the strength and truth and virtue of its all un-
	counted great!
Human! am I not Human? is not the world’s life
	mine?
Shall the fate of a single creature disturb that
	calm divine?

The little "I” that suffered was but a part of
	me—
A fraction slight as a wavelet light on a world-
	encircling sea.
I may sorrow for it, as for others; there is pain
	man should not bear.
But the joy and power of Human Life makes that
	an easy care.
We may mend it and remove it—we may make all
	men glad, 
So soon as we turn our common power to help the
	separate sad.
When we lift our soul from the microscope of per-
	sonal concern
And let the light of Human Love have room to
	shine and burn.

I have rejoiced through the ages. Since life was
	made, I live,
In the wealth of power and the peace of power
	and the joy that power can give.
I have climbed the way of the ages in the steps
	that must be trod;
And I stand on the very threshold of a world that
	knows its God.

Hark! was some one crying? Does some one yet
	complain?
We cannot go on to our splendid day while any in
	want remain.
Hush! it is easy to aid you; the power and the in-
	stant will,
Wisdom and limitless love are mine, bring me
	your cup to fill!
Come! To riches and beauty, and freedom that
	none can bar—
Were you myself a thousand times—see what you
	really are!

Boston Woman's Journal.              C. P. G.


[column 1]
	MOTHERS' WORK.

	SEVIER STAKE, 1905.

Lecture I. Home.

	‘‘A home should be of one’s building
Man erects the building, woman enshrines
it.”
	Home, sweet home.
	(1) Home the kingdom of woman. (2)
How to obtain the highest type of woman-
hood. (3) Learn the will of God concern-
ing woman. (4) Love and marriage or-
dained of God unto man.—Doc. & Cov.
Sec. 49: 15. (5) The great purpose for
which marriage was ordained, was to fulfill

[column 2]
that first divine law given in the beginning
Gen. 1: 28. Heb. 13: 4. (6) Those contem-
plating marriage should possess a proper
knowledge of the laws of life, and have a
reverence for God’s laws concerning th[-]
marriage relation. Key to Theology 165-
166. (7) Kind of marriage approved. Doc.
& Cov. Sec. 132: 15-19. Key to Theology
page 162.

Lecture II. Wifehood.

	(1)Woman’s duty to husband and home.
(2) Love of God and desire to fulfill his
commandments. (3) How do women of
Latter-day Israel compare with those of
Former-day Israel in fulfilling the most im-
portant functions of woman’s life? (4)
Proper clothing during maternity sanitary
conditions. Evils of the corset. (5) Diet,
etc. (6) Condition of the mind. Proper
books to read.

Lecture III. Parents.

	(1) Responsibil[-]ty to God for their minis-
try—Ref.—Maeser’s School and Fireside.
(2) Child’s best heritage--honorable birth.
(3) Purposes bent to prepare heart and
mind for embryonic molding. (4) Cultiva-
tion ot spirituality. (5) Parental influence,
example. Child of faith. (6) Beginning
and duration of parents responsibility.

Lecture IV.

	(1) A child’s welcome as a heaven sent
gift. (2) Proper clothing. Benefits of wool-
en clothing. (3) Proper feeding and evil
effects of patent medicines and drugs. (4)
Care of children during teething.

Lecture V. Childhood.

	(r) Bright looks and gentle tones, the
childs birthright. (2) The care of the child,
a careful study. (3) Prayer taught at the
mother’s knee. An early impression of faith
in God. (4) First principles taught—obedi-
ence. truthfulness honesty, and respect for
the Priesthood and those in authority over
them. (5) Faith in ordination taught by
precept and example. (6) Childhood—its
joys and trials. (7) Good seeds bring forth
good fruits. As we sow, we shall reap. (8)
Duties of mothers in instructing sons.

Lecture VI.

	(1) Cooperation of parents necessary for
future welfare of child. (2) Special teach-
ing necessary when child leaves home to
attend Di[-]trict School. (3) Example set
by others not always worthy. (4) Care
taken to guide children in choice of compan-
ions. (5) Bad effects of continual fault-find-
ing. (6) Parents should control themselves
before controling the child. (7) Cultivate
spirituality and develop by constant care.
Ref. Fireside Talks by Dr. Maeser.

Lecture VII.

	(1) Nature has no secrets. (2) How to
av[-]id transgressing the laws of being. (3)
Know thyself. (4) What beauty depends
upon. (5) Result of ill-health. (6) The
mothers influence. (7) How to avoid base
thoughts. (8) The mother as companio[-] to
the daughter. (6) The danger that besets
girls. (10) Motherhood, woman’s sweetest
joys.

Lecture VIII.

	(1) Marrying out of one’s natural sphere.

[column 3]
(2) Cause of unhappy marriages. (3) De-
sirable traits of character in opposite sex.
(4) Domestic happiness. (5) Fashions and
frivolity of Babylon should be discouraged,
Why?

Lecture IX. Evils of Race Suicide.

Lecture X. Word of Wisdom and Prepara-
	tion of Food.

	(1) Health, wisdom and knowledge are
promised to all those who observe the
Word of Wisdom, and the destroying angel
shall pass them by. Doc. & Cov. Sec. 89.
Dan. 1: 6-21. (2)The Word of Wisdom
was given first as a principle with a prom-
ise, but, since that time it has been given as
a commandment. (3) Show the injury and
disadvantage resulting from non-observance
of this commandment. (4) Food should
be clean, wholesome and well cooked. (5)
Avoid the use of fermented liquors and
strong spices in seasoning, lest an appetite
be created in the youth for strong drinks.

Lecture XI.

	(1) Necessity of self culture for mothers.
(2) Choice of good Literature. Ref. Stand-
ard church works. (3) Proper Language.
(4) Patience. (5) Home amusements for
the family. (6) Music in the Home.

Lecture XII. The necessity of Unity in Home.

	(1) United we stand, divided we fall; in
unity there is strength.
	Devotion in the home, Ref. Doc. & Cov.
Sec. 65, 45—86, 33. Juvenile Instructor
(January, 1905 ) (2) Love begets love, and
this virtue cultivated will be a source of
unity both in families a[-]d communities.
Love thy neighbor as thyself Matt. 19: 19.
(3) How does the habit of prayer affect the
lives of boys and girls in uniting them in
their important moves. Prayer, Doc. &
Cov. Sec. 68-28. Pray always that you en-
ter not into temptation, that you may abide
the day of his coming whether in life or in
death. Ref. Doc. & Cov. Sec. 61 39.
	Committee.


R. S. ANNIVERSARY.
The Cannonville Relief Society and
members of the ward met in the Cannon-
ville hall to celebrate the annual anni-
versary of the organization of the Relief
Society, March 17th, President Alvira A.
Henderson presiding.

PROGRAM.
Singing, “An angel from on high.”
Prayer by Jacob Graf. Singing, “Come
listen to a prophet’s voice.” A welcome
was given by President A. A. Henderson.
Comic recitation, “The Barrel of Butter,”
S. Johnson, Sen. Singing by the choir.
Remarks, William J, Henderson, Sen., on
the snbject of the “Relief S[-]ciety, past,
present and future.” Song, “We are
Waiting by the River,” Sextus Johnson and
RoseSugram. Sketch of the life of Bathsheba
W. Smith, Emily B. Spencer. Song, Mrs.
Adelaide Duffin and Mrs Eunice Ingram.
Closing remarks, Nephi P. Heward. Sing-
ing by the choir, “The happy day is roll-
ing on.”
The remainder of the time was spent in
dancing until ten a. m., when picnic was
served, then dancing was resumed, until
dismissed at 12 p. m.
EMILY B. SPENCER, Sec.


76		WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman's Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
			Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL, 1905


[column 1]
	GENERAL CONFERENCE.

	The Seventy fifth Annual Conference of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, held in the great Tabernacle, com-
mencing at 10 a m. on Thur[-]day, April 6,
1905 was certainly one of the largest, if not
the very largest that has ever been conven-
ed in the history of the Church, and was
assuredly one of the most enjoyable and will
make one of the most memorable of these,
events ever recorded in history.
	Everything connected with the Confer-
ence passed off in a manner appropriate to
such momentous occasions.
	It was indeed an imposing spectacle to
witness the stands and platform filled with
men holding the highest authority in the
holy priesthood. First Presidency, Apostles,
Patriarchs, First Council of Seventy, Presi-
dents of Stakes, Presiding Bishops: and the
Tabernacle choir seats crowded with the
sweet singers of Israel, and eminent musi-
cians to discourse sacred music inspiring
the souls of all present in that vast congre-
gation to higher, holier and purer aspira-
tions, as sacred music always does.
	When one recalls that this great body
of people in the General Conferences of the
Church have come hundreds, and even
thousands of miles in some instances, to at-
tend the meetings and listen to the teach-
ings from men inspired by the Holy Spirit,
to give both spiritual and temporal advice
and counsel to the hosts of men, women
and children assembled, it thrills one with
joy and gratitude to hear and to witness
what the Lord has done in the age in which
we live for the benefit of those who will
accept the divine message of this the last
dispensation of the fulness of times revealed
from heaven through the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
	Truly it is a wonderful work and how
can doubt enter into the minds of the Saints,
when they contemplate what has been done
for Zion through the instrumentality of the
men raised up from time to time to carry on
this marvelous work.
	Besides the great gatherings in the Tab-
ernacle overflow meetings were held in the
Assembly Hall adjacent, and out-door
preaching in the Temple yard for the ac-
commodation and edification of the crowds
who could not gain entrance in either house
of worship.
	The people generally will look forward
to receiving the newspapers that publish
full discourses and to the pamphlet contain-

[column 2]
ing the entire proceedings of this extraord-
inary Conference, for such it really was in
many respects. The Latter-day Saints are
very apt to say after each Conference, that
it was the very best ever held, but this
April Conference was a significant one for
many reasons, the peculiar condition of the
people at the present time, that indicates
stirring events that must be met with the
greatest wisdom this people are capable of
exercising, otherwise serious consequences
must inevitably follow. The Saints have
been warned and forewarned of the perilous
times and should be diligent in season and
out of season to every religious duty, as
well as temporal things; and hearken to the
still small voice that whispers to all who
are seeking to live right and serve the Lord
and help build up and establish truth and
righteousness in the earth and save man-
kind so far as possible from degradation
and sin.
	It is customary among the Latter-day
Saints to talk of being saviors upon Mount
Zion but we should one and all who love
our fellow-men labor to save our own, and
do all in our power to sustain those who
stand at the helm, to guide the great ship
Zion in safety for the salvation of all who
will stay on board and listen to the voice
of the Good Shepherd.
	After all the instruction given by Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith and other inspired
men who have spoken during this grand
and glorious Conference, surely there will
be an awakening among the people who de-
sire to stand fast for the cause in which
they have enlisted, and they will be more dili-
gent in keeping the commandments of God
and fulfilling the covenants made in the
house of the Lord in holy places and in
solemn assembles. If the Saints would do
this no good thing could be withheld for so
He has said whose word cannot be broken.


A HAPPY BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	A very pleasant party of ladies assembled
by invitation, March 7th, at the new resi-
dence of Sister Augusta W. Grant in honor
of Sister Rachel R. Grant, (the mother of
Apostle Heber J. Grant, now presiding
over the European Mission.) It would
not be possible to give the names of all the
sisters present on this happy occasion, as
there were probably eighty of them. The
parlors and hall were artistically arranged
and decorated, many beautiful flowers and
plants in bloom having been sent in as
gifts. Among others were the seven dozen
white carnations from the First Presidency
of the Church, who could not attend in
person.
	The gift was not only a token of the es-
teem and respect of these brethren for this
sister in the Church, but the white bloss-
oms were symbolical of her pure life, and
their fragrance was typical of her good
deeds, that have wafted sweetness into many
hearts and homes in Zion.
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth read for
the entertainment of the company a bio-
graphical sketch of the late President Jedi-
diah M. Grant, husband of the lady whose
birthday was being celebrated; the reading
was much enjoyed and brought to mind
many incidents connected with past history
in which some of those present had partici-
pated.
	Interesting remarks were made compli-
mentary and congratulatory to Sister Grant
by Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith, M. Isa-


bella Horne and Susan Grant—after which
some vocal music by the young ladies of
the household, Mrs. George J. Cannon
sang several sacred songs assisted by her sis-
ters Misses Florence,Edith, Anna, and Mary
Grant, and piano accompaniment. Sister E.
B. Wells offered her congratulations
and alluded to her intimate acquaintance
with brother Grant and family in the exo-
dus from Nauvoo, and in Winter Quarters
where they were neighbors; she also spoke
of being one of the old Tabernacle choir
selected to sing at his funeral and in the
cemetery at his burial.
	Sister Grant responded very sweetly to
the congratulations and honors conferred up-
on her, spoke briefly of her early life in the
Church and the troublous times in Nauvoo,
and how some of her relatives insisted on
her leaving the Church, but rejoiced that
she had remained faithful and that she had
received so many blessings, and although
she had not been able to hear for many
years, yet she had been very happy.
	The gathering of old friends and some
young people was happily intermingled.
Sweet young girls served dainty and appe-
tizing refreshments and altogether the char-
acter of the party was sort of sacred and
uplifting.
	Sister Grant is certainly beautiful in her-
self, her features remain placid and serene
and her intellect bright, she is well pre-
served in every respect and her friends join
in wishing her many happy returns of the
day in the enjoyment of peace love and
the good fellowship of the Saints.


A PLEASANT BIRTHDAY.

	On Monday March 27, 1905, a few of
the relatives and friends of Mrs. Martha G. 
Wells assembled by invitation at her home 
in this city. The parlors were very prettily
decorated and the guests all seemed deligh-
ted to honor one so universally admired and
so highly esteemed as "dear Aunt Martha"
as she is affectionately called by the "dear
five hundred friends."
	Quite a number of tokens of love and 
affection were presented to her by the
guests and others who were not present.
The party was not formal in any sense,
there were no speeches but many hearty 
congratulations, and sincere good wishes
were expressed for the honored lady, and
social conversation was freely indulged in 
by the goodly company.
	The five o'clock tea was handsomely
served on small tables and at each plate a 
card, with name of guest and flower; jon-
quil,yellow being the color of flower, ribbon
etc. The menu was of the choicest variety
and served in the daintiest style, with cut
glass, silver, and the finest china, but the 
most delightful part of all was the social
feeling that seemed to permeate the gather-
ing. A blessing was asked upon the food
when all was ready by Sister Elizabeth J. 
Stevenson. During the afternoon Miss
Mary Wells sang very sweetly one or two
favorite songs accompanied on the piano by
Miss Alice Wells, her cousin, little Geneva
Wells also sang very sweetly; all grand-
daughters of the hostess.
	The success of the party was in a great
measure due to the ingenious tact of the
young women, who so carefully arranged
every detail that could add to the enjoy-
ment of the hostess and her friends, Mrs.
Edna Wells Sloan and Mrs. Briant H.
Wells.


It was a day to be remembered by those
present particularly because of the renew-
ing of old-time acquaintances, who meet so
seldom socially nowadays on the great high-
way of life. The writer extends sincerest
congratulations to Mrs. Wells and may her
days be lengthened out.and all her ways be
smooth and peaceful as the years roll on-
ward.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES. 

	The minutes of the General Conference
of the Relief Society will be published in
the May number of the paper.

	Some othe other matter deaths, etc., that
are left over will be used next issue.

	Those who send articles for publication
in the paper will please put the name of the
writer, it is quite impossible to guess at
the right signature and each one writing an
article for publication should sign her own
name or nom de plume if she so desires.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.

WAYNE STAKE.

	Wayne Stake Relief Society Conference
was held Jan. 14, 1905, at Thurber R. S.
Hall, Pres. Jane S. Coleman presiding;
after the usual opening exercises Pres. Cole-
man wished all present a happy and pros-
perous New Year; thought the minutes
just read were of an elevating nature, re-
ported Stake labors, that there was perfect
union in the Stake Board. Counselor M.
E. Hanks could not be present, her babe
being sick. Counselor Sarah Forsyth
had been honorably released and was now
in Canada, which left a vacancy in the
Stake officers, spoke very highly of her
good words and deeds, that she would al-
ways be held in loving remembrance by her
sisters in the Wayne Stake; Sister Bathshe-
ba Grundy was chosen to act as Second
Counselor, received a clear vote. The
duties of the officers and members were
spoken upon and that the Relief Society
was especially for looking after the poor
and sick and those who need warming up
in the faith of the Gospel.
	Loa Relief Society, reported by Coun-
selor Elizabeth Jeffrey; Lyman, Counselor
Orilla Chappel; Thurber, Pres. Sarah E.
Meeks; Teasdale, Counselor Angeline Cole-
man; Torey, Pres. Mary E. Perry; all were
in good condition, they all had gathered up
a good donation of wheat for storing; all
made good remarks upon Relief Society
work.
	Counselor Bathsheba Grundy felt that
the Spirit of the Lord was in our midst,
was desirous to do that which would be re-
quired of her as a Stake officer.
	Sister Sarah A. Robison was truly grate-
ful to enjoy this conference, said much good
can be accomplished by the Relief Society
teachers, to cheer the down cast, visit the
sick and by being active members it made
us better wives and mothers.
	Elder Joseph Eckersley felt the Relief
Society was a tower of strength, said Pres.
Coleman was faithful and untiring in her
efforts, that Counselor Mary E. Hanks’
heart was in the work, that Counselor
Sarah S. Forsyth’s presence would be
missed, spoke highly of her faithful labor

[Column 2]
in the Wayne Stake, thought Sister Grundy
had proven her interest in Woman’s work,
in other associations, and she could be de-
pended upon; paid tribute to the lovely,
genial character of the late Sister Lucinda
Brown who had recently passed from this
life, advised teaching purity of life to our
sons and daughters, try to seek for the
Spirit of the Lord and have discernment to
choose the good and refuse the evil, and
understand the spirit of the time; be true
to your covenants, honor your callings, and
the blessing of the Lord be upon you.
	Benediction by Elder Gastian S. Bastian.
	Afternoon session. Pres. Jane S. Cole-
man read the yearly financial statement.
Spoke about what had been accomplished
in silk culture, the sample of cocoons sent
to the division of entomology at Washing-
ton D. C. were pronounced very good by
the chief of the bureau and graded firs
class, said it was very pleasing to know our
trees were of a good quality, felt we were
favored by having the Stake Presidency
at our conference.
	Elder G. S. Bastian spoke on looking
after the poor, that none should suffer, also
that parents should study the natures of
their children, to teach them purity and
reverence, mothers prepare their children
for Sabbath school, their influence was the
greater in the home, they were always pres-
ent with the children, would have liked to
see more of the brethren present, many of
the sisters had come from a distance which
showed interest in the work, prayed the
blessing of the Lord upon the Relief Society.
	Sister L. C. Ostberg, missionary, enjoyed
the excellent spirit of the conference, spoke
to mothers upon the responsibility resting
upon them to teach honesty, truth, and
other virtues.
	Sisters Kingstrup, Eliza Brinkerhoff,
Flora Russel, Bathsheba Grundy, all made
remarks encouraging to young mothers,
urging them to live up to the teachings of
the Gospel, and bore their testimonies to
the truth of the work of the Lord, and all
had kind words to say of Counselor Sarah
S. Forsyth who had left the Wayne Stake.
	Bishop George Stringam had enjoyed
listening to the remarks of the brethren and
sisters, did not know how we could get
along without the Relief Sociely sisters,
said the Relief Society is a good help in the
Church.
	Singing. Benediction by Sister Viola
Brinkerhoff. Conference adjourned for six
months.

MARY C. WILLIAMS


IN MEMORIAM.

Whereas: Our Dear Sister Sophia T.
Nuttall has been called upon to mourn the
loss of her companion, Elder L John Nut-
tall;
Be it resolved; that we the members of the 17th
Ward Relief Society extend our love and sym-
pathy to herself and family praying that our
Heavenly Father will pour out His Holy Spirit in
abundance upon them to bless and comfort their
wounded hearts; may the husband’s and father’s
influence remain with them throughout their lives
to replace in part his presence.
Resolved that we as a Society do mourn his loss
on account of his devotion to Relief Society work
being ever willing to assist us with his worthy
counsel and noble advice:
Resolved that a copy of this be placed on the
records of tho Society and also published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

FIDELIA JACOBS, Pres.


MOTHERS WORK:

WASATCH STAKE.

Lesson XIII.—Charity.

Bear ye one another's burdens
And so fulfill the law of Christ.
	a. Teach children to sacrifice some of
their pleasure for the happiness of others.
b. Pure religion and undefiled before God
and the Father is this: “To visit the father-
less and the widow in their affliction, and to
keep himself unspotted from the world.”
Ref. Oct. Era, 1903. Nov. Y. L. Journal,
1904.

Lesson XIV.—Economy.
	a. Money, its use and abuse. b. Self-
denial. c. Avoid debt, danger of borrow-
ing. “Neither a borrower or a lender be,
for loan oft loses both itself and friend and
borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry.”
d. Economy of time.

Lesson XV.—Selfishness.
	a. Parental and family selfishness. b.
Christ's example is pure unselfishness. Ref.
Nov. Y. L. Journal, 1904.

Lesson XVI.—Self-Control.
	a. Temptation. b. Temperance. c
Courage. Self-control is the virtue which
regulates behavior by reason. Ref. Jan.
Era, 1904. Y. L. Journal, May, 1900.

Lesson XVII.—Cheerfulness.
	a. Cheerfulness and its effects, fault-find-
ing and its effects. b. Our duty is to be
happy and to make others happy. Ref. Y.
L. Journal, Aug. 1900.

Lesson XVIII.—Reverence for Sacred
	Things.
	a. Reverence for Deity. b. Reverence
for the house of worship. c. Reverence
for sacrament vessels. Irreverence comes
mostly from thoughtlessness and not from
desire. Ref. May Era, 1903. Journal, Oct.
1900.
	Presidency and Committee: Anna R.
Duke, Elizabeth Murdock, Lovisa Alexan-
der. Sarah K. Duke, Sec.


A great meeting was held in London on
March 14 by the National Union, a federa-
tion of twenty-seven Woman Suffrage As-
sociations. Queen’s Hall was packed, and
there was much enthusiasm. About eighty
members of Parliament were present. Mr.
Leonard Courtney presided, and there were
addresses by Sir Wilfrid Lawson, Sir Chas.
M’Laren and six other members of Parlia-
ment, and by the Countess of Aberdeen and
Mrs. Millicent Garrett Fawcett. John Mor-
ley sent a letter, in which he said: “It is
absurd to pretend either that women are
incapable of political interest and capacity
or that voting must be injurious to their
womanhood.’’ Our American “Antis” al-
ways try to make out that municipal suf-
frage in England is limited to a few rich
women. At this meeting Mr. Bamford
Slack, M. P., quoted some interesting Lan-
cashire figures. In Bolton, he said, there
were 5234 women voters on the municipal
register, of whom 4752 were working wo-
men. In a typical ward in Nelson the pro-
portion of working women was 95 per cent.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF SISTER
ELLEN SEMMIONS HARRISON.
	Ellen S. Harrison was the daughter of
George and Charity Walles, and was born
the 5th day of March, 1859, at Keymore,
near Brighton, Sussex, England. Sister
Harrison was baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the
year 1869, by her father, who was at that
time President of the Sussex branch of the
Church. 
	Sister Harrison's mother died when Ellen
was between the ages of 13 and 14 years.
In the year 1875, she in connection with
her sister, Charity, emigrated to America
and settled in Salt Lake City, Utah, where
she went to live with Sister Joshua K.
Midgley, and there remained until the 8th
day of July, 1880, when she married Edwin
D.Harrison. In 1881 she in connection
with her husband left Salt Lake City, and
took up their residence in the city of Logan,
Cache County, Utah, where she immedi-
ately identified herself with the Relief So-
ciety of the Third Ward, of said city.
Shortly after going to Logan her husband
was called to fill a mission to Great Britain,
thus leaving Sister Harrison to provide and
care for herself and seven children, which
she nobly did for over two years.
	In June, 1898, she and her husband with
their children moved to the Pocatello ward,
where she at once began an active work in
Relief Society. On the 6th day of July, 
1899, she was called and set apart to be
Second Counselor to Sister Regina Pond,
President of the Pocatello Ward Relief So-
ciety, which position she held until May,
1900. On the last named date Brother L.
John Nuttall re-organized the society and
Sister Harrison was set apart to be its
President, which position she nobly filled
until September 22nd, 1903, when she was
honorably released to become the Second
Counselor to the Stake President of the 
same organization, which position she was
honorably filling at the time of her death,
which occurred on the 27th day of January,
of this year (1905).
	Sister Harrison is the mother of nine
children, eight of whom are now living.
Three sons and five daughters. These
children, in connection with an affectionate
husband, are left to mourn her demise.
She was a loving wife, a devoted mother
and was beloved by all who knew her, and
has gone to receive her glorious reward.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT—
To the memory of the late Sister Ellen S.
Harrison, unanimously adopted by the Re-
lief Society Stake officers at their regular
meeting March 8th, 1905:
	We, the officers of the Stake Board of
the Relief Society, realizing the great loss
sustained by the Ward and Stake Relief So-
ciety in the death of our beloved Sister,
Ellen S. Harrison, who departed this life on
the 27th day of January, 1905, desire to
express our deep sense of the worth and
excellent qualities of our departed sister;
therefore be it
	Resolved, That in Stake Counselor Ellen
S. Harrison, we recognize a capable and
good worker, one who has left behind her
a grand and noble example of her faith in
God and the principles of the Gospel, and
we are left to emulate her example, to
treasure up the words of faith, hope, chari-
ty, and love that fell from her lips and was
practised in her life.

[Column 2]	
That in her death we are deprived of a
valuable Counselor whose presence will be
sadly missed in our councils;
	That we deeply sympathize with the be-
reaved family, and pray the Lord to sustain
and comfort them in their great sorrow,
that they may look up to the Father in
Heaven she loved so well and take courage
in following in her footsteps;
	That while we lament the death of a
loved co-laborer, we bow in submission to
the fiat of Him who doeth all things well;
	That these resolutions be placed upon the
minutes of the board, and that copies be
furnished the family.

SECRETARY.


IN MEMORIAM. 
PHEBE CAMPBELL ATKINSON. 
Sketch and resolutions of respect to the mem-
ory of Sister Phebe Campbell Atkinson, who de-
parted this life at Bountiful October 21, 190 4
Sister Atkinson was in her 96th year, and her 
living descendants number 450 souls. She had 15
children, 77 grand-children. 329 great-grandchil-
dren, and 39 great-great-grandchildren. Sister 
Atkinson was born at New Brunswick, Canada, 
October 9, 1809. Her marriage to Bro. Atkinson 
occurred in 1834. She emigrated to Utah in 1853, 
settling in Bountiful, Has been a faithful mem-
ber of the Church from that time till her death. 
Sister Atkinson was a member and officer of the 
Relief Society from the time it was organized in 
Bountiful, and at the time the ward was divided 
in 1877, Sister Atkinson was appointed president 
of the South Bountiful Relief Society January 26, 
1879. In that capacity she worked faithfully, al-
ways striving to do her duty, and at the end of 15
years resigned on account of ill health, having 
gained the love and respect of all who were as-
sociated with her. She was a woman of great 
faith and integrity to the Gospel; her testimony 
was always bright. She was not ashamed to de-
fend the principles of her religion, and was true 
to every principle of the Gospel, including that of 
celestial marriage. She died as she had lived, 
firm in the faith, and with a sure hope of a glori-
ous resurrection. 
RESOLUTIONS.
Therefore be it resolved, that we, the officers of 
the Relief Society, do sincerely sympathize with 
the bereaved family, and we mourn for one who 
was in every respect worthy of our love and es-
teem. 
Resolved, that in her death we recognize the loss 
of a true Saint and a faithful worker; but she 
has fought the good fight and kept the faith, and 
there is a crown of righteousness awaiting her in
the kingdom of God. 
Resolved, that these resolutions be placed upon 
the records of the South Bountiful Relief Society 
and that they be published in the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, and a copy be given to the bereaved
family.

MARY A. PAGE, President. 
SARAH P. MOSS, Secretary.


IN MEMORIAM.

	In memory of Sister Kirsten Forgerson Anderson
who departed this life, March 18th, 1905, at her
home in Koosharem. Sevier Co., Utah.
	She was born in Norway, May 5th, 1828. She
became a member of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints in the early 60’s, and emi-
grated in 1877, arriving in Ephraim Sanpete Co ,
Utah, July 24th of the same year.
	The following August she removed to Koos-
harem, then in Piute Co , with her husband, An-
drew Anderson, two sons and two daughters, as
follows. Mrs, Josephine Nielson, of Richfield,
Sevier Co., Utah, Mrs. Malvina Johnson, of
Deweyville, Box Elder Co., Utah, Theodore An-
derson, Koosharem, Sevier Co., Utah, and Parley
Anderson, who is Bishop of the same place.
	On the 1st of August 1878, a Relief Society of
the Koosharem ward was organized with Margaret
Anderson as president, Eliza Rust 1st counselor,
Sabra J. Hatch. 2nd counselor. Sister Kirsten was
sustained as teacher, an office which she faithrully
filled for two years, when our ward was divided,
taking Sister Rust from us.
Sister Kirsten was then sustained as first coun-


selor, which position she held up to the time of her
death.
From August 1880 till March 1905, this chain has 
never been broken, till God in His infinite wisdom 
saw fit to take one of its brightest links home, 
where she will continue her labors of usefulness 
and love. 
For nearly a quarter of a century she has served 
us faithfully and well. She was a kind and de-
voted wife and mother, devoted to her family, her 
friends and her God. And as much as we regret 
the separation, we rejoice in the thought of the 
glorious reception she will meet in the mansions 
of our Father. And we know that the closing of 
her life here, is the beginning of another which 
shall be far more glorious and eternal. 
RESOLUTIONS. 
Whereas our esteemed sister has been called to 
her heavenly home. we, her sisters, who know of 
her faithful life, desire to acknowledge her labors 
and ministrations of kindness love and assistance 
as a counselor of our Relief Society, and also as a 
friend and neighbor in the best sense of the term. 
Therefore be it 
Resolved, that we do testify that humility, char-
ity and faith were leading traits of her in character,
and that her devotion to her family, her friends 
and her God is an example which we should all 
strive to emulate. 
Resolved, that these resolutions be recorded in 
our Relief Society record and also published in the
Woman’s Exponent.
Margaret Anderson, Pres. Koosharem Ward; 
Sabra J. Hatch, Counselor; Sarah Crawford, 
Secretary.


ANNUAL DAY, ARCHER, IDAHO.

The Relief Society held its annual day in
the ward house, March 17, 1905. The ex-
ercises commenced at 10 o’clock, Presi-
dent Sarah S. Briggs presiding. The ward
choir rendered singing. A sketch of the
Relief Society was given by counselor Sus-
annah Burns. Readings, comical and sent-
imental, singings, violin solos, organ selec-
tions, recitations, stump speeches and ad-
dresses. followed by remarks from the Bish-
op and Counselors, were greatly enjoyed by
those present. Dinner had been prepared
by the sisters, of which all seemed to par-
take freely. The afternoon was spent in
social conversation and the day closed with
a friendly dance. The health of the people
is good and fair weather prevails.


Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman has had a
busy time in England, where her friends
had arranged to have her give eighteen lec-
tures and addresses in thirteen days. From
England she went to the Continent for a
series ot twelve lecture engagements, begin-
ning at Amsterdam, and going on to Vi-
enna, Buda-Pesth, etc. Mrs. Gilman ex-
pected to sail for America about March 25.

Lady Warwick, the first of England’s no-
bility to avow her belief in socialism, is
about starting on an automobile tour
through England preaching the doctrine.
Among other things she will argue for non-
sectarian education in the schools and
against the policy of Balfour and the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury.

Pundita Ramabai has secured eighty-four
acres about thirty miles from Bengalore,
with a large number of mango-bearing
trees, wells, houses, and the use of a tank.
The Widow’s Home now in Bengalore
will soon be removed there, but part of the
Home at Bengalore will be maintained as
a feeder to the new home.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
EXTRACTS. 
From President Roosevelt's Address to the Congress 
of Mothers. 
“No piled-up wealth, no splendor of ma- 
terial growth, no brilliance of artistic de-
velopment, will permanently avail any peo-
ple unless its home life is healthy, unless 
the average man possesses honesty, cour-
age, common sense and decency, unless he 
works hard and is willing at need to fight 
hard; and unless the average woman is a 
good wife, a good mother, able and willing 
to perform the first and greatest duty of 
womanhood, able and willing to bear, and 
bring up as they should be brought up, 
healthy children, sound in body, mind and 
character, and numerous enough so that the 
race shall increase and not decrease. 
There are certain old truths which will 
be true as long as this world endures, and 
which no amount of progress can alter. 
One of these is the truth that the primary 
duty of the husband is to be the home-
maker, the bread-winner for his wife and 
children, and that the primary duty of the 
woman is to be the helpmeet, the house-
wife and mother. The woman should have 
ample educational advantages; but, save in 
exceptional cases, the man must be, and 
she need not be, and generally ought not 
to be, trained for a lifelong career as the 
family bread-winner; and, therefore, after a 
certain point, the training of the two must 
normally be different, because the duties of 
the two are normally different. This does 
not mean inequality of functions, but it 
does mean that normally there must be 
dissimilarity of function. On the whole, I 
respect the woman who does her duty even 
more than I respect the man who does his. 
No ordinary work done by a man is either 
as hard or as responsible as the work of a 
woman who is bringing up a family of 
small children; for upon her time and 
strength demands are made not only every 
hour of the day, but often every hour of 
the night. She may have to get up night 
after night to take care of a sick child, and 
yet must by day continue to do all her house-
hold duties as well; and if the family means 
are scant she must usually enjoy even her 
rare holiday taking her whole brood of chil-
dren with her. The birth-pangs make all
men the debtors of all women. Above all, 
our sympathy and regard are due to the 
struggling wives among those whom Abra-
ham Lincoln called the plain peo-
ple, and whom he so loved and trusted; for 
the lives of these women are often led on 
the lonely heights of quiet, self-sacrificing 
heroism. 
Just as the happiest and most honorable 
and most useful task that can be set any 
man is to earn enough for the support of 
his wife and family, for the bringing up 
and starting in life of his children, so the 
most important, the most honorable and de-
sirable task which can be set any woman is 
to be a good and wise mother in a home 
marked by self-respect and mutual forbear-
ance, by willingness to perform duty, and 
by refusal to sink into self-indulgence or 
avoid that which entails effort and self-sac-
rifice. Of course, there are exceptional 
men and exceptional women who can do, 
and ought to do, much more than this, who 
can lead and ought to lead great careers of 
outside usefulness in addition to- not as 
substitutes for- their home work; but I 
am not speaking of exceptions; I am speak-
ing of the primary duties, I am speaking of 

[Column 2]
the average citizens, the average men and 
women who make up the nation." 
Inasmuch as I am speaking to an assem-
blage of mothers, I shall have nothing 
whatever to say in praise of an easy life. 
Yours is the work which is never ended. 
No mother hns an easy time, and most 
mothers have very hard times. and yet 
what true mother would barter her experi-
ence of joy and sorrow in exchange for a 
life of cold selfishness which insists upon 
perpetual amusement and the avoidance of 
care, and which often finds its fit dwelling 
place in some flat designed to furnish with 
the least possible expenditure of effort the 
maximum of comfort and of luxury but 
in which there is literally no place for chil-
dren. 
The woman who is a good wife, a good 
mother, is entitled to our respect as is no 
one else. but she is entitled to it only be-
cause, and so long as, she is worthy of it. 
Effort and self-sacrifice are the law of 
worthy life for the man as for the woman; 
though neither the effort nor the self-sacri-
fice may be the same for the one as for the 
other. I do not in the least believe in the 
patient Griselda type of woman—of the
woman who submits to gross and long-
continued ill-treatment, any more than I 
believe in a man who tamely submits to 
wrongful aggression. No wrongdoing is  
so abhorrent as wrongdoing by a man to-
wards the wife and the children that should 
arouse every tender feeling in his nature. 
Selfishness towards them, lack of tender-
ness towards them, laek of consideration 
for them, above all, brutality in any form 
toward them, should arouse the heartiest 
scorn and indignation in every upright
soul.
I believe in the woman’s keeping her 
self-respect just as I believe in the man’s
doing so. I believe in her rights just as 
much as I believe in the man’s, and indeed 
a little more; and I regard marriage as a 
partnership, in which each partner is in 
honor bound to think of the rights of the 
other as well as of his or her own. But I 
think that the duties are even more im-
portant than the rights, and in the long 
run I think that the reward is ampler and 
greater for duty well done than for the in-
sistence upon individual rights, necessary 
though this, too, must often be. Your duty 
is hard, your responsibility great; but 
greatest of all is your reward. I do not 
pity you in the least. On the contrary, I 
feel respect and admiration for you. 
Into the woman’s keeping is committed 
the destiny of the generations to come after 
us. In bringing up your children, you 
mothers must remember that while it is es-
sential to be loving and tender, it is no 
less essential to be wise and firm. Fool-
ishness and affection must not be treated 
as interchangeable terms; and besides 
training your sons and daughters in the 
softer and the milder virtues, you must seek 
to give them those stern and hardy qualities 
which in after life they will surely need-
Some children will go wrong in spite of 
the best training, and some will go right 
even when their surroundings are most un-
fortunate; nevertheless, an immense am-
ount depends upon the family training. If 
you mothers, through weakness, bring up 
your sons to be selfish and to think only of
themselves,you will be responsible for much 
sadness among the women who are to be 
their wives in the future. If you let your 
daughters grow up idle, perhaps under the 
mistaken impression that, as you yourself 

[Column 3]
have had to work hard, they shall know 
only enjoyment, you are preparing them 
to be useless to others and burdens to them-
selves. 
Teach boys and girls alike that they are 
not to look forward to lives spent in avoid-
ing difficulties, but to lives spent in over-
coming difficulties. Teach them that work 
for themselves, and also for others, is not a 
curse, but a blessing; seek to make them 
happy, to make them enjoy life, but seek 
also to face life with the steadfast resolution 
to wrest success from labor and adversity, 
and to do their whole duty before God and 
to man. Surely she who can thus train
her sons and her daughters is most fortu-
nate among women. 
There are many good people who are 
denied the supreme blessing of children, 
and for these we have the respect and sym-
pathy always due to those who, from no 
fault of their own, are denied any of the 
other great blessings of life; but the man 
or woman who deliberately foregoes these 
blessings, whether from viciousness, cold-
ness, shallow-heartedness, self-indulgence, 
or mere failure, to appreciate aright the dif-
ference between the all-important and the
unimportant—why, such a creature merits 
contempt as hearty as any visited upon 
the soldier who runs away in battle,or up-
on the man who refuses to work for the 
support of those dependent upon him,
and who, though able-bodied, is yet content 
to eat in idleness the bread which others 
provide. 
The existence of women of this type 
forms one of the most unpleasant and un-
wholesome features of modern life. If any 
one is so dim of vision as to fail to see 
what a thoroughly unlovely creature such 
a woman is, I wish they would read Judge 
Robert Grant’s novel,“Unleavened Bread,”
ponder seriously the character of Selma, and
think of the fate that would surely over-
come any nation which developed its aver-
age and typical woman along such lines. 
Unfortunately, it would be untrue to say 
that this type exists only in American nov-
els. That it also exists in American life is 
made unpleasantly evident by the statistics 
as to the dwindling families in some localit-
ies. 
It is made evident in equally sinister fash-
ion by the census statistics as to divorce, 
which are fairly appalling, for easy divorce 
is now, as it ever has been, a bane to any 
nation, a curse to society, a menace to the 
home, an incitement to married unhappi-
ness and to immorality, an evil thing for
men,and a still more hideous evil for wom-
en. These unpleasant tendencies in our 
American life are made evident by articles 
such as those which I actually read not
long ago, in a certain paper, where a clergy-
man was quoted, seemingly with approval,
as expressing the general American atti-
tude when he said that the ambition of any 
save a very rich man, should be to rear two 
children only, so as to give his children an 
opportunity “to taste a few of the good 
things of life.”
This man, whose profession and calling 
should have made him a moral teacher, ac-
tually set before others the ideal, not of 
training children to do their duty, not of 
sending them forth with stout hearts and 
ready minds to win triumphs for themselves 
and their country, not of allowing them the 
opportunity and giving them the privilege 
of making their own place in the world, 
but, forsooth of keeping the number of chil-
dren so limited that they might “taste a


few good things!’’ The way to give a child
a fair chance in life is not to bring it up in
luxury, but to see that it has the kind of
training that will give it strength of char-
acter. Even apart from the vital question
of national life, and regarding only the in-
dividual interest of the children themselves,
happiness in the true sense is a hundred
fold more apt to come to any given mem-
ber of a healthy family of healthy-minded
children well brought up, well educated,
but taught that they must shift for them-
selves, but win their own way, and by their
own exertions make their own positions of
usefulness, than it is apt to come to those
whose parents themselves have acted on
and have trained their children to act on
the selfish and sordid theory that the whole
end of life is “to taste a few good things.”
The inelligence of the remark is on a par
with its morality, for the most rudimentary
mental process would have shown the
speaker that if the average family in which
there are children contained but two chil-
dren, the nation as a whole would decrease
in population so rapidly that in two or three
generations it would very deservedly be on
the point of extinction, so that the people
who had acted on this base and selfish doc-
trine would be giving place to others, with
braver and more robust ideals. Nor would
such a result be in any way regrettable; for
a race that practiced such doctrine—that is,
a race that practised race suicide—would
thereby conclusively show that it was unfit
to exist, and that it had better give place
to people who had not forgotten the prim-
ary laws of their being.
To sum up, then, the whole matter is
simple enough. If either a race or an in-
dividual prefers the pleasure of mere effort-
less ease, of self-indulgence, to the infinitely
deeper, the infinitely higher pleasures that
come to those who know the toil and the
weariness, but also the joy, of hard duty
well done, why that race or that individual
must inevitably in the end pay the penalty
of leading a life both vapid and ignoble.
No man and no woman really worthy of the
name can care for a life spent solely or
chiefly in the avoidance or risk of trouble
and labor.  Save in exceptional cases the
prize worth having in life must be paid for,
and the life worth living must be a life of
work for a worthy end, and ordinarily of
work more for others than one’s self.
The man is but a poor creature whose
effort is not rather for the betterment of his
wife and children than for himself, and as
for the mother, her very name stands for
loving unselfishness and self-abnegation,
and, in any society fit to exist, is fraught
with associations which render it holy.
The woman’s task is not easy—no task
worth doing is easy—but in doing it, and
when she has done it, there shall come to
her the highest and holiest joy known to
mankind; and having done it, she shall
have the reward prophesied in Scripture,
for her husband and her children, yes and
all people who realize that her work lies at
the foundation of all national happiness and
greatness,shall rise up and call her blessed.”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STO	solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
much as possible for your money.
TRY US

Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank in Utah.
Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
ings accounts.
The laws of Utah permit married
women and also childrenwho are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to five thousand, and compute said
interest Semi-annually.

WRITE for any information desired.
JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 East Temple Street,


[Column 1]
	THE VENICE ASSEMBLY.

	There are many ideal summer resorts in
this country at the present time, but for
novelty and genuine attractiveness nothing
has ever been built which will surpass Ven-
ice, which is now being completed on the
Southern California coast just south of
Santa Monica. Nature has done much for
this delightful spot, but during the past
year the finest architect and landscape
gardener and the best engineer have been
busy, and the result is a modern Venice
with miles upon miles of salt water canals,
stately Venetian palaces, business blocks
and places of amusement; and while it will
not be completed until the first of June, the
work is so far advanced that a fair idea of
the rare attractiveness of the place is ob-
tained by any who go to visit.
	Venice is easily accessible, being but
thirty minutes’ ride from Los Angeles on
a modern electric railway. Besides its
many attractive features which will be
maintained all the year round, arrange-
ments have been made for a great assembly
to be held during July and August of 1905,
in a pavilion seating 3,000 people, on the
pier some 300 feet from the shore, beyond
the line of breakers, where the breezes are
always cool and where everything conspires
to make every hour pleasant. Benjamin
Fay Mills, whose name is known wherever
the English language is spoken and who
has recently become Permanent Minister of
the Los Angeles Fellowship, has been elected
President. The Secretary is the Hon. Dana
Burks, while the Vice-Presidents who have
accepted their election include the Hon.
George C. Pardee, Governor of California;
the Hon. George C. Perkins, U. S. Senator
from California; the Hon. Thomas R. Bard,
the Hon. Franklin K. Lane, the Hon.
William E. Smythe, founder of the Nation-
al Congress of Irrigation, and Abbott Kin-
ney, Esq.
	The plan includes first a series of national
sociological congresses on a scale never be-
fore attempted in America, except at the
World’s Parliament in Chicago during the
World’s Fair.
	A feature which will command attention
is a Summer University at which all the
lighter branches of general culture are to
be taught, including a School of Music, a
School of Modern Languages, a School of
Nature Study, a School of Ethics, and a
School of Expression.
	The plan provides for a series of lectures,
dramas, concerts, and other entertainments
of the highest class, participated in by lead-
ing people in their line in this country.
	One of the finest concert bands in the
country has been secured to give two pro-
grams a day. Entertainments will be fur-
nished by the amateur dramatic society, ex-
hilarating recreation will be provided in the
form of pure and ennobling amusements,
and a general effort made to promote good
fellowship.
	The spiritual department will not be
overlooked. Every Sunday morning a
great undenominational service will be held

[Column 2]
in the auditorium with the finest sacred
music, sermons being delivered by repre-
sentatives of all the great religious beliefs.
	No better idea could be given on the
scope of the work outlined than through a
more detailed analysis as planned for the
first division, which will be known as the
World’s Parliament. Under this head it is
planned to hold nine great assemblies or
congresses, beginning July Fourth with a
California Congress, at which it is expected
Governor Pardee will preside. Others in-
vited include U. S. Senators Perkins and
Flint and the Hon. William E. Smythe.
	A Patriotic Congress will follow to con-
sider national and inter-national interests.
The President of the United States will be
invited and strong hopes are entertained
that he will consent, as he expects to attend
the Portland Exposition. Secretary Taft
will be invited to speak on “Our Colonial
Problems,” and the presence of other
speakers of national prominence secured.
	Another great assembly will be known
as the Reform Congress, to which Mr. Al-
bert Shaw, Governor Alva Adams, Miss
Ida Tarbell, Senator La Follette of Wis-
consin, Mr. Thomas J. Lawson, Mr. Clar-
ence Darrow, and others are to be invited.
The other six congresses are to be as fol-
lows: One of Universal Peace, another to
be known as the Economic Congress, an-
other the Congress of Religions, then a
Philanthropic Congress and a Congress of
Psychic Research will follow in the order
named, at all of which speakers of world-
wide fame and of varying views will be in-
vited to give free, courteous expression to
their various opinions, the congresses clos-
ing on the first day of September, making
two months of greater activity along edu-
cational lines than has ever been enjoyed
at any summer assembly in the world.


Rev. Anna H. Shaw writes: “I see by 
the papers that in the report of the resolu-
tions passed by the Woman’s National
Council it is stated that ‘I led the attack’
on certain resolutions, and that I said when 
the race was not worth reproducing women 
should practice race-suicide. As a matter 
of fact, I left Washington Thursday noon,
and the resolutions were not presented till 
Friday, and there was no mention of race-
suicide. The reporters were determined to 
get some expression from us on the subject,
and we refused to be interviewed. But it
seems to make no difference whether you 
talk or not; they make up an interview or a
discussion.”


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

Vol. 33						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1905.						No. 11.


CONTENTS. 
The Polytechnic Institution, London......M. F.	81
Woman’s Voice.............................L. D. M. A.	83
Testimony to Sister John...........Aretta Young	83
MOTHER’S WORK:—Bear Lake Stake.......	86
	Blackfoot Stake......................................	86
In Memoriam—Sarah M. Hammond—Sarah
	Jane Holliday—Margaret P. Evans.........	87
Utah Commission, Lewis and Clark Exposi-
	tion..........................................................	87
The National Convention................................	88
Tribute to Sister Caroline Pace.......................	88
Kaiser William’s Stables.........Lydia D. Alder	88
EDITORIAL:—A Happy Anniversary—Helpful
	Suggestions—Editorial Notes—General
	Relief Society Conference......................	84
Relief Society Reports................................82	83
POETRY:—A Spring Song................M. F. K.	81
	Progre[-]s..........................Ellis R. Shipp	81
	A Memory..................Grace Ingles Frost	83


A SPRING SONG.
Come out in the sun-light, sister,
	Casting sorrow and gloom aside,
All is glad to-day, let us hie away
	And welcome the fair springtide,
What! tears in your eyes, my sister.
	And traces of care on your brow,
While beauteous May in her robes so gay,
	Is wooing you to her now!
’Tis Winter still, in your heart, dear?
	Nay, sister, how may this be?
For the Father of Love who reigns above
	Sends His Springtide to you and me.
He bids you rise from your sorrow,
	He bids you with Nature rejoice;
In the joyous hymn of gladsome Spring
	To unite with heart and voice.
Then lift your eyes to the heavens
	To God’s altar your incense bring, 
Of grateful praise, through the fair glad days
	Till comes His Eternal Spring.
							- M. F. K.


[Column 1]
			PROGRESS.
From the whirl and swirl of nations, to the moth-
	er’s cradle song,
Through time’s wonderful inventions, and life’s
	ways of righting wrong;
In the heart of man or woman—in their modes of
	speech, e’en thought,
In all things divinely human do we find progres-
	sion wrought.
With a retrospective vision we may scan the
	changeful past,
Since man found on earth his mission, vivid horo-
	scope be cast.
Or peruse the revolution in the world’s historic
	tomes.
Of the fitful evolution in ambitions, hopes and
	homes.
We behold brave sires of freedom bending ’neath
	the stress of toil,
Nought but brawn and strong volition to make
	fruitful, untried soil;
Ekeing out a scant subsistence for their children
	not a few,
None were then denied existence, all were welcome
	as the dew.
Schools uncommon, books rare treasures, teachers
	crude in discipline,
With the rod, or harsher measures, sought obedi-
	ence to win;
Impotent were they to fathom possibilities of
	mind,
Influence of mind o’er matter—threads of gold to
	thus unwind.
Now we wonder how our mothers washed and
	sewed and wove and spun,

[Column 2]
Without steam to ease their labors, toiling on from
	sun to sun;
There was no electric button to be touched to give
	them light,
Tallow-dip or lard and cotton, all that cheered
	through darkest night;
Wearily they darned and mended, or perchance
	they knitted on
By the faintly glowing embers, till the coming of
	the dawn;
Oft they passed through ills maternal without ten-
	der care or skill,
Only faith in One eternal, and their own undaunt-
	ed will.
Hand in hand with hearts united in serene sim-
	plicity,
Men and women worked and waited, trusting God
	implicitly;
Human odds seemed all against them! blindly
	struggling year by year.
Till man’s heaven-inspired inventions brought the
	great Millennium near.
Marvelous the transformation! can it be magician’s
	wand,
Or the touch of fairy fingers, taking us to realms
	beyond?
Brilliant lights in varied tintings. “liquid air” and
	“air compressed,”
Give to mortals faintest glintings of a power still
	unexpressed.
Mortal minds can hardly follow all the changes
	time hath wrought—
Great developments in science, through inspired
	progressive thought;
Cables stretched ’neath ocean billows, e’en the
	voiceless message sent.
Radium revealing powers without limit in ex-
	tent,—
Monuments to erudi[-]ion—pinnacles into the skies.
Mighty progress plainly written, bidding men and
	women rise—
Rise on stepping stones of wisdom to a far diviner
	power—
Rise to holier achievements. Progress watchword
	of the hour.
Step by step we find each nation casting off heretic
	gloom.
Peoples, high or low in station, crying: “Give our
	children room!”
“Give us scope for thought and action; give us
	power to do and dare;
Free us from fanatic faction—help us mount pro-
	gression’s stair.”
Haste the time when all creation bows before one
	holy shrine—
In one grand united nation, bound by living faith
	divine!
Then we’ll love all men as brothers, put aside all
	mortal strife;
Such progression is eternal—will secure eternal
	life!
						ELLIS R. SHIPP.


EDITORIAL NOTE. 
	The missionaries of the General Board of 
the Relief Society are beginning to fill the 
appointments for Stake Conferences, and 
some visits have already been made. Sisters
Sophia T. Nuttall and Julia P. M. Farns-
worth visited Jordan Stake by invitation on 
Monday, May 8, and Sisters Sarah Jenne 
Cannon and Hattie B. Harker attended the 
Relief Society Conference of Millard Stake 
held at Scipio on May 13. Sisters Ellis R. 
Shipp and Elizabeth S. Wilcox attended 
Malad Stake, May 18. Counselor Annie 
Taylor Hyde and Sister Elizabeth J Stev-
enson left on the 23rd inst. to attend Con 
ferences in Bannock and Fremont Stakes
Sisters Emma S. Woodruff president o[-]
Granite Stake accompanied by Sister Hattif 
Harker left May 25, for U[-]ntah Stake to a
tend the Relief Society Conference there


THE POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTION.
			LONDON.
	By very few people in this country is it
known that such an institution as the Poly-
technic in London, Great Britain, exists.
	It was founded by Mr. Quinton Hogg.
At the age of eighteen years, after leaving
Eton, he entered the firm of Bosanquet,
Curtis & Co., merchants, of which he is now
the head.
	At that early age he began to manifest
an interest in homeless boys, i.e. 1863.
	He hired a small house in York Place,
Strand, where he opened a night ragged
school and shelter for destitute boys. The
work grew to such an extent that larger
premises were taken in Drury Lane
in an old warehouse, where he could have
a playground for physical exercise. Mr.
Hogg himself occupied a cubicle in the dor-
mitory. He was now joined in the work
by two fellow Etonians—the Hon. Lord
Kennard and the Hon. T. H. W. Pelham.
	He invited the boys who were well be-
haved to his country home, and became
the personal friend of all the boys who
came under his supervision. When one
showed a desire to improve himself, he ap-
prenticed him to a trade. About 1500 of
them he emigrated to Canada and the
United States
	In 1873 he found the boys he had ap-
prenticed brought their friends with them.
This necessitated some provision other than
a ragged school, so the Youth’s Christian
Institution was started with a membership
of 35. Soon the membership rose to hun-
dreds. In 1882 Mr. Hogg acquired the old
Polytechnic building in Regent Street, Lon-
don. For the premises and subsequent al-
terations he paid $750,000.
	Here he has since carried on a growing
work for young men, the like of which it
would be difficult to find in the world. To
see the president at his best, one should
contrive to meet him at the Polytechnic,
when the boys assemble at 9 o’clock p.m,
on weekdays.
	He calls and knows every boy by name,
and his house adjoins the institution at the
back.
	In 1882 one thousand members were en-
rolled, but the membership increased so
amazingly that in 1892 there were over
eleven thousand bona fide students. They
have over five hundred evening classes per
week in addition to a day school for eight
hundred boys and girls. The classes are for
art work, typewriting, shorthand, a techni-
cal school and engineering school. Perfect
order is maintained in every department,
in fact the whole machinery works with
perfect smoothness.
	Mr. Hogg was at first averse to mixing
the sexes, but he has d[-]parted more and
more from this principle yearly. The girls
who come are real students. They
have a separate gymnasium and reading
room. The nominal charge of 35 cents per
quarter or $1.25 per annum entitles the
girls to the use of the social rooms, sewing
rooms, and the Polytechnic itself, as far as
it is open to females.
	The swimming bath is reserved for their


use on Fridays only. There are special
classes for music, dressmaking, millinery,
needlework, cooking, and domestic econ-
omy.
	For the young men there is cricket, foot-
ball, rowing, swimming, lawn tennis, box-
ing, etc.
	Connected with the institution are the
following clubs and societies: Polytechnic
Ramblers, Boxing Club, West London
Rifles, Volunteer Medical Staff, Military
Band, Drum and Fife Band, Orchestral
Society, Electrical Engineering Society,
Photographic Society and Natural History
Society.
	Mr. Hogg soon found he could not entertain
the sick and those who needed rest, so hol-
iday homes were started on a paying basis.
He has also organized holiday trips of all
kinds and rates to meet the various circum-
stances. At Easter a batch of students
are sent to Oxford with a competent lec-
turer at a cost of $4 35 per week each. There
are also foreign holiday trips arranged at a
nominal cost to students. To Ardennes
and back with accommodation $18.75 per
week. A week in Switzerland $26 25. Two
weeks through Norway with a lecturer,
$41.25 for the trip. Eleven hundred stu-
dents were booked for the Chicago Exhibi-
tion for $135. By the same ship an ordi-
nary return fare to New York would have
been $125.
	The expenditure of the Polytechnic is
about $175,000 per annum. It is seldom
that it pays itself, but the deficits are made
up by its generous patron.
	I omitted to mention, it has an experi-
mental room, where any new invention
will be exhibited by application to the com-
mittee.
	No doubt the many interests to which the
Polytechnic appeals may partly explain its
wonderful success, but the one circumstance
which more than any other has contributed
to it, is the whole-hearted devotion of its
patron by which it was inspired and sus-
tained ever since its humble birth, when it
started with two ragged crossing sweepers.
				MARIA FRANCIS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			ALPINE STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of the Alpine Stake was held at
Lehi, April 21, 1905. Meeting convened
at 10 o’clock, President Rebecca Standring
presiding. Singing. Prayer, Brother Schow.
Singing. Minutes read and approved.
	President Standring greeted the sisters in
her usual kind and motherly way. “The
Lord has promised that if we are faithful
we shall never be overcome;” stated that all
the wards had been visited except two, dur-
ing the last quarter, and some twice; prayed
the Lord to bless the presidents and inspire
them with with the spirit of the Lord.
Every ward in the Stake being represent-
ed, all seem to be doing their utmost to
further the great work. Good meetings
are held, several new meeting houses have
been built recently and the sisters have
done a good word in helping to finish and
furnish them.
	After the reports, President Standring
gave instructions in regard to our March
celebration, asked the wards to meet con-
jointly as far as possible on that day, and
have fellowship together, and not particu-
larly for making means, but each member,
if ever so poor, should consider it her duty

[Column 2]
to pay her fee of ten cents. Advised the
sisters to buy wheat with the money they
have on hand, and not keep it or use it in
any other way. “It is our mission to save
souls,” and she thought we should have to
have missionaries in our stake to visit every
house and stir up the sisters to their duty.
	Singing Benediction, Sister E. Feather-
stone. Meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon session Conference, 2 p. m.
Singing. Prayer, Brother William South-
wick. Singing. Minutes read and accept-
ed. President Standring prayed that the
speakers might all be inspired by the Spirit
of the Lord in their remarks. Stak[-] Presi-
dent Stephen L Chipman said the Spirit of
the Lord is a wonderful influence, and it
makes people humble and meek, charitable
and long suffering. Christ is the chief
c[-]rner stone of this work. Our enemies
would strike our religion out of existence,
but it is the Lord’s work and it has come to
stay. Prophets and Apostles are with us,
and there is no doubt as to the outcome of
this work. It s not those who pay tith-
ing that find fault, but those who do not
observe this law. President Chipman read
the revelation on tithing. There is no
part of the tithing but is handled by the
proper authority and every dollar can be ac-
counted for satisfactorily by the people.
Part of the tithes are used for the bene t of
schools, some for the building of meeting
houses and for the establishment of foreign
missions and the poor receive a benefit from
the tithing.
	Stake Counselor Annie C. Hindley: “This
society is a grand organization where we
can understand the fruits of the Spirit, and
where our testimony may be strengthened
and it is a pleasure to do our duty.” Refer-
red to our General Conference and the spir-
it of the reports, and thought our Stake
would compare favorably with other stakes;
felt thankful for the love and unity exist-
ing.
	President James H. Clark: “This is not
the work of man, look at those who have
been instruments in bringing the work to
this point, it is marvelous. The Lord gives
us strength and blesses us with faith to
continue. How many there are in this
Church faithful women who have husbands
who are careless and negligent. What can
they do? They can pray, pray continually
and the Lord will hear their prayers and
answer them, and the wayward ones will
be brought to repentance. God is with the
work and is guarding it. If the principle
of tithing is not true, the whole fabric is
false.” Spoke of the church in Chicago
built by tithing; also in Denmark and
Sweden. Look at our comfortable homes.
Sister Sina Chipman felt we had had a
feast today, could see great beauty in the
principles of the Gospel, had listened to the
testimony of a lady who was one of the
wives of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
who related many of the troubles and driv-
ings of the people in that day, what they
endured for the Gospel’s sake and for the
establishment of the work of the Lord in
this last dispensation.
	Singing. Closing prayer, Patriarch Wil-
liam Clark. Conference adjourned for three
months.
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec.

			NEBO STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Nebo
stake Relief Society convened in the Spring
Lake meeting house, April 14, 1905,

[Column 3]
President Lilyus C. Page presiding. Con-
gregation sang, prayer by David Butler,
singing. Minutes read and approved.
	Sister L. C. Page thanked the people of
Spring Lake for their cordial greeting. Sis-
ter Vina Moore, president of the Spring
Lake society, welcomed all at the confer-
ence, felt pleased to have the conference
here, read an address delivered by President
Roosevelt to the Congress of Mothers on
race suicide. Sister Page gave a report of
the conference in Salt Lake City.
	Song by Sister Cecil Speinhower. Sister
Mary A. Bingham reported the Benjamin
Society as being complete in its organiza-
tion, having paid $30 to the woman’s buii-
ding. Goshen Society was reported by
Pres, Mary Ann Price as being in good
condition. Stster Sarah Swensen reported
the Relief Society of the Fourth ward of
Spanish Fork. First ward of Payson was
represented by Sister Amy Hancock, own
meeting house and granary
	Recitation, Alice Butler Smith, Aunt
Hannah’s Thanksgiving Sermon.
	Sister Sarah Roberts of Goshen spoke on
the slackness of people in attending to their
duties, this is what is bringing trouble
upon us as a people. Prophesied that
President Smith would prevail and his ene-
mies be brought to naught;
	Sister Moore said she did not want any-
body to go away, but stay to lunch.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
Singing, closing prayer by Susannah Pick-
ering.
	Afternoon session: Choir and congrega-
tion sang, prayer by Bishop William Taylor
of Spring Lake ward, singing. Minutes
read and approved.
	Sister Mary A. Pierce spoke on the Word
of Wisdom. Sister Sarah Swenson spoke
on obedience to those in authority over us,
	A ladies’ quartette was rendered by mem-
bers of the Spring Lake ward Sunday school
—“Sweet wild-wood flowers.”
	Sister Mary A. Hallam spoke on various
principles of the Gospel and bore testimony
to the truth thereof. Sister Emma S. Jen-
kins of Goshen spoke of the use of the Doc-
trine and Covenants and Church History
in the home to instruct our children.
	Recitation, Sister Annie Bennett, “Which
shall it be?”
	Brother Hyrum Simmons, of the Stake
Presidency, spoke on the object of the Re-
lief Society and an understsnding of theGos-
pel. The Doctrine and Covenants is our
guide in this day. Bishop William Taylor
felt glad of the privilege of having a stake
conference at our place, believed the time
is coming when all will be tried, hoped to
stand faithful to the end, hoped this con-
ference would be a help to the people of
this ward to encourage them to do better.
	Stake Counselor Eliza J. Dixon felt tru-
ly grateful for the way in which we have
been entertained today; compared the dif-
ferent sections of the Church to a great
picture to be painted by many artists; illus-
trated how bad habits have control over us.
gave notice that this conference will be ad-
journed for three months, to July 14th at
Payson.
	Choir and congregation sang. Benedic-
tion by Martha S. Kapple.
		HATTIE WRIDE, Asst. Sec.


On May 18 the various Peace Societies
throughout the world and numerous organ-
izations of women celebrated the anniver-
sary of the establishment of the Hague
Court of International Arbitration.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A MEMORY.
(Dedicated to Sister Emma Neff by Grace Ingles
				Frost).
	At the hour when daylight is fading,
		When the curtain of night falls fast,
	I dream, but not of the future,
		I dream of a time that is past,
	In my heart lives a sweet, sad feeling,
		A memory of long ago.
	Of a girl with a fair, ethereal face,
		And a heart as pure as snow.
	I dream and once again see her,
		A babe lying by my side.
	Looking at me in wonder,
		With violet eyes open wide.
	And then I see a wee lady.
		Playing with dishes and dolls,
	And hear the sweet baby accent,
		As ‘‘Muzzie,” she now and then calls.
	Next I see her a school girl,
		A school girl, with merry laugh.
	And think as of yore, may God give her
		Always a sunny path.
	Years pass; I see my once baby,
		A bride with the blushing face,
	As she so happy and loving,
		At the altar takes her place.
	I raise my voice to heaven,
		And praise the Holy One,
	For being so kind and favoring
		My own, as He hath done,
	I think not of how many
		The burden of sorrow bear;
	I think of but one fair woman;
		For her is my every prayer.
	And still I dream, dream and dream on,
		But my heart is with anguish torn;
	I now, alas! am forced to wear
		That badge by others worn.
	For one dark morn the mysteries
		Of Life and Death are wrought,
	And in my arms they place the babe
		My darling's life has bought


WOMAN'S VOICE.

Testimony of Lucy Diantha Morley
Allen, daughter of Isaac Morley and Lucy
Gunn Morley, born in Kirtland, Geauga
Co., Ohio, October 4th, 1815.
I was well acquainted with the Prophet
Joseph Smith. He came from New York
to Kirtland at an early date. He lived in
our home seven months and afterwards
in a house built for him by my father near
our home.
I was married to Joseph Stewart Allen in
Lima, Hancock Co., Ill; passed through
many of the persecutions and mobbings of
the Saints; saw my father, with others,
taken by the mob to be shot because they
were “Mormons,” but they were delivered
by the power of the Lord.
I came to Utah in 1848, in Brigham
Young’s company. I have helped to build
up many places in Utah, was called to the
Muddy mission and lived there three years.
I was a member of the United Order at
Orderville, until it was broken up.
I am the mother of five sons and seven
daughters, I have seventy-eight grandchil-
dren, one hundred and four great grand-
children, and nine great, great granchil-
dren.
I was promised by Apostle F. M. Lyman
that none of my posteritv should be lost; a
promise that is a great comfort to me. I
want to bear my testimony that Joseph
Smith was a true prophet of the Lord, also
a grand and noble man,

L. D. M. A.


Lines written by H. E. Hoyt, to Lucy
Diantha Morley Allen, on her eighty-ninth
birthday.
	Eighty-nine years, and thy natal day,
	Nearly nine tenths of a century[-]
	And there beams from thine aged face
	The love of the Gospel, which thro’ Gods grace
	Has been thy solace thro’ joy and pain;
	And dwells in thy heart yet still the same.
	Eighty-nine years in the fulness of times,
	How much thou hast seen in those years of
		thine,
	How well thou didst know our Prophet dear,
	How much thou caust tell that brings the tear,
	Of sufferings past, heartrending scenes;
	Which some may say are only dreams.
	But, sister, the scenes of thy early youth,
	We know thou hast told in words of truth.
	And yet again we would have you tell,
	Of our Prophet dear, whom we love so well;
	How persecution and hate were rife,
	Until they took his precious life.
	And the testimonies we’ve heard from you.
	Leave not a doubt that thy words are true.
	And may thy life still longer be.
	That our youth may learn those truths from thee;
	For few there are who saw and heard,
	Yet live to speak those precious words.
	And should you live till the Savior comes,
	Or should you soon be called home,
	May love and peace and joy be thine;
	For well thou hast earned those joys sublime.
	And whether on earth or in heaven above,
	Thou hast earned a crown and a people’s love.


TESTIMONIAL TO SISTER JOHN.
	The members of the Relief Society of
the Utah Stake successfully surprised their
president, Mary John, and the other Stake
officers, Dec. 23, 1904, it being the anniver-
sary of Sister John’s birthday, as well as the
Prophet Joseph Smith’s.
	A delightful program was rendered, con-
sisting of songs, readings, instrumental
music and addresses. An interesting feat-
ure was the reading of a manuscript paper,
expressing sentiments of love and respect
for Sister John and the other officers.
	After the program, a delicious dinner was
served to about three hundred people.
Toasts and short speeches made the time
pass all too soon.
	Emma J. Bennett, chairman; the presi-
dents of the six wards of Provo, committee.
		MARY SMOOT GLAZIER, Sec.
	The following was a tribute of love writ-
ten for Sister John:
		TO DEAR SISTER JOHN.
The harvest was ripe, the Master came,
And cailed the Reapers in Christ's dear name,
You heard and answered the sacred call.
You laid on the altar your heart, your all.
You have fed His lambs and His hungered sheep;
Have dried the tears of His loved ones who weep;
With a Saint’s sweet faith you have banished fear,
When hops was silent and death stood near,
The living you’ve solaced, have clothed and fed,
Have folded the hands of the silent dead;
The meek and the lowly have been [-]our care,
Loving and giving your life’s best prayer.
Your mother-love, like a beacon star.
Has sent its light into paths afar,
hose vou have guided and given rest,
Will rise, dear sister, to call you blest.
The sunset is closing about your life.
Your life of toil and of mortal strife,
A sunset of beauty, of wond’rotts light,
That turns to glory all gloom of night.
We come to greet you this natal day,
A humble tribute in love to pray,
Your hand to clasp and your heart to cheer.
To honor a life that is near and dear.
God bless you, sister, aye, may you hear,
The whisper of angels forever near,
May peace, like a halo, surround your way,
And fill your soul, is the prayer we pray.
						ARIETTA YOUNG.


R. S. REPORTS.
		UINTAH STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Uintah
stake was held at Maeser ward, Nov. 24,
1904, president Sarah M. Colton presiding.
Singing, prayer by Patriarch Nelson Merk-
ley,  singing. Minutes approved. Presi-
dent Colton welcomed the sisters and re-
ported the stake as being in good condition.
Sister Addie Longhurst gave a lecture on
the duties of Relief Society workers. Pres-
dents of Vernal, Mountain Dell, and Jen-
sen wards reported their wards as being in
good condition. Essay by Sister Mary J.
Searle of Mountain Dell. Counselor Agnes
Bennion spoke of the evils that surround
us, said we should be patient with our
children. Patriarch Nelson Merkeley spoke
at some length of the prophecies of ancient
and modern times and their fulfilment.
	Singing and adjournment until 2 o’clock.
Benediction by Sister Abbie Oaks.
	Afternoon session.—We continued con-
ference.  Singing, prayer by Elder John
Galloway. Singing “Praise to tLe man
who communed with Jehovah.” Minutes
read and approved. The general and local
officers were sustained.
	Recitation: Maggie Billings of Jensen:
the presidents of Naples and Glines report-
ed their wards as being in fair condition.
Sister Caroline Stringam spoke of the good
derived from attending meetings and Sab-
bath school referred to some of the Savior’s
sayings. Bishop S. D. Colton gave all pres-
ent some good counsel on different subjects.
Counselor John Galloway spoke of the good
the Relief Society was doing. Counselor
Nancy A. Colton spoke of character and
reputation. Sister Kate Calder spoke of
the young people aud of charity.
	Pres. Colton gave some instructions to
the sisters in regard to their duties. Ap-
pointed next conference to be held inGlines
ward.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing ‘[-]The time is far spent,” Benedic-
diction by Bishop S. D. Colton.
		TETON STAKE
	The Teton Stake Relief Society Confer-
ence was held at Driggs, March 9th, 1905,
There was a good representation from all
the branches of the Teton Valley. Jackson
Valley was not represented on account of
the road being so bad over the divide. The
stake Presidency, a number of the high
council and also a number of Bishops were
in attendance. All the branches in the
Stake but one were reported as being in a
prosperous condition. Each one of these
had a subject prepared such as “True
charity,’’ Appreciation of officers,” Duties
of motherhood,” etc. The subjects were
well presented. The vocal selections by
Sister Annie Buxton were enjoyed by the
audience. It was the largest congregation
and the most enjoyable conference that the
Teton Stake Relief Society has had since
the organization of our stake. The house
was well filled. The instructions which
were very spicy were enjoyed by all.
	Our beloved Pres. Sophia E. Rigby has
recovered of late from a severe attack of
typhoid fever which was contracted while
she was nursing her daughter Eva, who
was so seriously afflicted that in a few days
she was taken to the great beyond where
she will receive the crown which is enjoyed
by the righteous.
			LYDIA E. FULLMER, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street. Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 1905


A HAPPY ANNIVERSARY.
	We regret not having published in this
issue the birthday celebration of our beloved
President Bathsheba W. Smith; the anni-
versary of her 83rd birthday occurred May
third of the present month, and the event
was beautifully observed with most pleasing
and appropriate exercises in Provo on May
Day both at the Brigham Young Univer-
sity, and at the Tabernacle, with an elabo-
rate reception in the evening. Presidents
Joseph F. Smith and John R. Winder hon-
ored the occasion by accepting the invita-
tion of Sister B. W. Smith’s counselor,
Sister Ida S. Dusenberry, who planned this
happy affair in honor of her President.
	On her real birthday anniversary May
third, there was a very pleasant gathering
of about one hundred of her relatives and
friends at the handsome residence of Broth-
er and Sister W N. Williams, and again
this reverend mother in Israel received an-
other ovation, which we hope to give to our
readers more complete, as also the celebra-
tion in Provo.


[Column 1]
	HELPFUL SUGGESTIONS.
	Our readers are undoubtedly all aware
that this number of the WOMAN’S EXPON-
ENT completes the thirty-third volume, and
whatever may be said of this little periodi-
cal, or whatever critici[-]m may be made, one
thing must be said if truth is told, it has al-
ways stood tor the principles of right and
never pandered to the vitiated tastes and
frivolities of modern society, or entered
into any arguments that would lead to con-
troversy adverse to the best interests of the
community in which it is circulated, as a
medium of information for women and the
organizations established for their helpful-
ness, and their higher education in all that
will develop the best qualities of woman’s
nature; and whatever is best for women is
always best for society at large, and assur-
edly in the home circle.
	This paper is essentially “Mormon,” as
the term is used, and it is the aim of the
editor to make every effort towards main-
taining the spirit of the Latter-day work in
its columns, so that no harm may or can be
done to the most delicate mind in perusing
its contents.
	The women’s organizations of the Church
are and should be conducted on such lines
as breathe the true spirit of the everlasting
Gospel, inculcating faith in God, and in the

[Column 2]Savior of mankind. The light that has
come into the world in this last dispensa-
tion of the fulness of times, must be diffused
through those who have accepted the teach-
ings of prophets and apostles raised up in
this day, and therefore all who write and all
who teach and exhort should be careful of
their words and of tbe spirit which accom-
panies them.
	The women of Zion have been highly
favored in the privileges that have come to
them, even in this far off western land; at
an early date comparatively speaking they
were given equal suffrage, in February,
1870, and very soon after this little paper
was started, in which they had the oppor-
tunity of expressing their views on all ques-
tions which pertained to their conditions
aud circumstances, and their future hopes
and prospects.
	The bound volumes of the EXPONENT
extending back to June, 1872, contain many
very able articles from the pen of the wom-
en pioneers and heroines of the e rly days of
the Church, which are valuable history and
these pages have been read by huudreds of
women outside the church, who have been
interested in suffrage and organized work
among women, particu[-]arly charitable and
philanthropic people. A complete file of
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT was on exhibi-
tion at the Paris Exposition in 1900, and
at “The Hague.”
	In this and other ways this little mes-
senger of peace and truth has been bene-
ficial, and the sisters who have been actu-
ally engaged in public duties in the
Church, might gather much useful inform-
ation by reading the articles written by the
sisters who live here and those who travel
abroad.
	If more of the sisters would devote a lit-
tle time to waiting it would be a help and
development for themselves and add to the
variety which is always pleasing, and pos-
sibly be the means of doing great good, for
assuredly writing good things is like “cast-
ing bread upon the waters,” it may reach a
hungry soul longing for comfort, and it is
perhaps sowing good seed that may spring
up and bear fruit. Dear sisters, you who
desire to do good by developing your ideas
and adding to the storehouse of knowledge
for the benefit of others, write for our little
paper and give your testimonies and such
incidents in your experience as are valuable
for record, and would be helpful to our
many readers here and elsewhere, for the
EXPONENT is read in many lands.


EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The very large and magnificent afternoon
reception given at the handsome home of
Dr. and Mrs. C. F. Wilcox on Saturday,
May 13, at 2 p. m. when so much was done
to give pleasure to the limited guests must
also be mentioned in June, it was a very
delightful affair.
	D. R. meeting on April 19th in commem-
oration of the Battle of Lexington and the
regular meeting on May 16th, the last of
the season before adjourning for the sum-
mer, with the exception of the annual meet-
ing to be held June 10, for the election of
officers for the ensuing year will appear in
the next number of the paper.
	Last of these interesting affairs was the
ninetieth anniversary of Elder Nathan Tan-
ner, veteran of Zion’s camp, the celebration
was given at the home of Hon. F. S. Rich-


ards and wife and was certainly a most
unique party in many respects. We shall
try to publish full particulars and make it
a matter of record as he is the only surviv-
ing member of that wonderful pilgrimage
in 1834.
	The graduating exercises of the Relief
Society nurses’ class whi[-]h were held in
Barratt Hall, May 18, at 10:30 in the morn-
ing were of a most interesting character and
we hope to make an extended mention of
this cl[-]ss and what has been accomplished
in that line of work in the June number.
The beautiful reception given the nurses by
their Instructor Dr. Margaret Roberts at
her fine residence the same evening to which
some of her friends and patrons of the nurse
work were invited, will also be fittingly pre-
pared for the paper.


GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The General Conference of the Relief So-
ciety convened in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this city on Wednesday, April 5,
1905, commencing at 10 a. m., President
Bathsbeba W. Smith presiding. The
handsome new Relief Society banner was
hung conspicuously on the organ, and ad
ded much to the appearance of the back-
ground of the stand, which was ornamented
with potted palms and plants.
	Meeting opened with congregational sing-
ing, “Now let us rejoice in the day of sal-
vation.” Prayer by Sister Susan Grant,
singing, “O ye mountains high,” etc.
	President B. W. Smith made the address
of welcome, expressed herself pleased to see
so many present at the morning session, and
would like to take them all by the hand and
hear from each one, but knew there would
not be time; she always rejoiced to meet
with the Relief Society, and prayed that the
Lord would give His Spirit to those assem-
bled that they might be happy together,
and if any one had not a testimony of the
truth, that they might receive one; above
all she desired we might keep the faith,
and we must have true love for each other,
said “I bless you, my sisters, with all the
power and authority I have, and may we
all keep the faith and be saved in the celes-
tial kingdom.”
	Roll call by the secretary.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde introduced
President Susannah T. Booth, of Box Elder
Stake, who made a concise report of the
condition of the Society there, giving in de-
tail a financial statement, and also spoke of
the activity of the sisters in that locality.
	Counselor Hyde then introduced Presi-
dent Lucy S. Cardon, of Cache Stake, who
followed in a similar strain, reporting
briefly the temporal and spiritual conditions.
	President Susan Grant, of Davis Stake,
was next introduced, and gave substantial-
ly the same sort of report.
	President Nellie C. Parkinson, of Hyrum
Stake, introduced. Sister Parkinson spoke
of the wheat stored up and of the lectures
given to young mothers, the progress made
and her hopes of the future.
	President Mary E. Sorenson, Emery Stake,
reported seven granaries and five Relief So-
ciety halls owned by the Society, other
things most encouraging.
	Counselor H. Huldah Larson gave an
equally good report of Jordan Stake.
	Kanab Stake, reported by the secretary,


[Column 1]
Mercy Spencer, the president could not
come, they were very far from headquarters
and away from railroads, in an isolated
locality and many adverse circumstances to
contend with, but withal were trying to
serve the Lord. All these presidents were
courteously introduced to the conference.
	Sister Nellie Druce Pugsley, one of the
sweet singers of Israel, sang a solo, “Home
So Dear,” accompanied on the organ by
Sister Vilate Nebeker Bennion, as an encore
she gave, “The Swallow to God leaves her
young within her nest,” the music was
much appreciated.
	Morgan Stake was represented by Presi-
dent Lydia Rich, who spoke especially of
the interest taken by the brethren of the
Stake in their meetings and conferences,
they were often visited by members of the
High Council or Patriarchs.
	President Elizabeth Layton of St. Joseph
Stake, gave quite a full account of the work
of the Relief Society in that part of Arizo-
na, which was very interesting, and rather
out of the ordinary method of reports
which in a way are necessarily very simi-
lar.
	Granite Stake, represented by President
Emma S. Woodruff, was also an exceed-
ingly interesting report, and the amount of
work accomplished seemed almost incredi-
ble, but the activity of the sisters in charit-
able and philanthropic work and the ability
they have to accumulate means is becoming
well known:
	President Clarissa S. Williams, of Salt
Lake Stake, one of those recently or-
ganized by the division of the former
greater Salt Lake Stake, gave her report,
it is not quite a year old yet, but has made
in that short time a fine showing along sev-
eral lines, in making charity visits and
among the sick, and the means disbursed
during just about eight months since they
have been in working order has been very
considerable.
	Panguitch Stake, reported by the secre-
tary, Margaret Haycock, like some other
stakes in places remote from railroads, the
people have many difficulties to meet and
overcome, consequently cannot progress in
some ways quite as rapidly, but spiritually
are doing just as well, which is after all the
main thing.
	President Louisa Benson, Oneida Stake,
reported some progress in young moth-
ers coming forward and taking active
part, and also more grain being stored
than heretofore, and altogether a little im-
provement all around.
	President Jane S. Richards, Weber Stake,
referred to the first organization of the So-
ciety in Nauvoo, though there were oniy a
few members they had the spirit of the
work, and the Prophet Joseph to meet with
them from time to time. In regard to
Weber County they had a good-sized Relief
Society hall in that Stake, and at the last
officers’ meeting there was not standing room
there were so many present. She felt
we could not be too energetic in charity
work, visit the aged and comfort them as
well as the needy and the sick.
	Meeting adjourned until two p. m. Sing-
ing, “We thank thee, O God,” etc. Bene-
diction by Sister Carrie S. Thomas.

	Afternoon session, 2 p, m., opened by
singing, Professor C. J. Thomas leader,
with members the Tabernacle choir,

[Column 2]
Hymn, “Praise to the man who communed
with Jehovah. Prayer by Dr. Margaret
C. Roberts, singing by the choir, “Give me
thy heart.”
	President Bathsheba W. Smith spoke up
on visiting the sick and needy. “My dear
sisters, I am very much pleased to see so
many here, and I feel to bless you all for
the work you are doing in this labor of
love. I have brought something to read to
you from the Prophet’s sayings.” She
then read: “The sectarians have no charity
for me, but I have for them, and I intend
to send men to them in the spirit world
that they may receive the Gospel by proxy,
that they may be redeemed and come into the
kingdom-” The Prophet also said he in-
tended to make of this society one accord-
ing to the ancient priesthood, a kingdom of
priests. Sister Smith remarked that all
who were present on the day when the
Prophet Joseph organized the society had
passed away, every one except herself,
many hundreds were added to the society
in Nauvoo afterwards, but when we came
away from there the society was broken up,
after we came here it was organized again
in wards, and so on. “Look around this
house and you will see what has been 
the result, and we have never been left yet
without a prophet, and we don’t expect to
be. The Prophet Joseph said every virtu-
ous woman ought to belong to the Relief
Society, and we have kept it select, and we
want to be, and to keep ourselves pure. I
have worked with my hands and not
dressed much, or thought much about it.
When I was a young girl I was anxious to
go to Z[-]on and wanted to go with my sis-
ter, and I felt like my heart would break
when I was disappointed, and a voice just
said to me, ‘Don’t cry, you will go and
right away too,’ and it cheered me up, and
I felt happy, and it came to pass, and al-
most as soon as we arrived in Missouri the
mob came, but I felt that Mormonism was
true. The mob took the Prophet and
others and put them in prison and treated
them awfully, and finally after many trials
and persecutions and we were driven from
the state, we got a home again in Nauvoo,
then the enemy drove us again, and they
would do it now if they could, but they
will drive us together and we will have
more love, and we will keep in the path of
duty; this is my prayer, that we may be
saved in the celestial kingdom. Amen.”
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry: “The
baby that said in the Kindergarten, ‘I love
everybody here,’ certainly expressed my
feeling for everyone here. Faith sustains
us all through our lives, one of the sisters
reported that their missionaries visited the
schools, if you had all been teachers, as I
have, possibly you might know better than
you do what this means to the school and
the teachers; if this practice could be ad-
opted by our sisters, it would benefit the
child who always takes pride in being not-
iced; we want the child awakened spiritual-
ly, the mother asks when? It is a hard
question to answer. The mother can do
most.” The speaker referred to a conver-
sation she had with a young lady who had
been waiting ou an invalid mother eight
years, spoke of her as refinement itself, our
thoughts should be our guides, if we can
only set good examples of purity before
our children and have an influence of spir-
itual refinement and of gentleness, it will
give us some satisfaction in living.
	Sister Nellie Druce Pugsley, accompan-
ied by Miss Coray, gave a sublime and im-

[Column 3]
pressive rendering of “Ava Maria,” which
was highly appreciated.
	Sister Clarissa S. Williams spoke speci-
ally upon Relief Society work, she realized
that those as[-]embled there wanted to get
something to help them, the Prophet Jos-
eph organized the Relief Society, some-
times we are narrow enough to think that
feeding the hungry and clothing the desti-
tute is all; but one thing is to be saviors of
all; if he had not had the confidence of those
who were with him, he could not have done
the work he did, our sisters, in their acts
of charity should carry with them the spirit
of saviors of Zion, honest and truthful; we
believe that in the years that this society 
has been established, the Prophet Joseph’s
sayings have been very helpful; he often
spoke of charity, and that if we saw a fault
we should not by word or deed magnify it,
he meant we should have the charity which
teaches us to love each other, there is a say-
ing that I saw on the wall of the Relief
Society hall in Beaver, containing the senti-
ments the Prophet implied when he taught
the society at that first meeting; the work
of ministering to the sick and afflicted is one
that needs attention, there are many ways
of caring for the sick and old people living
alone: if we could have a little home for
these aged ones it would be very gratify-
ing, we feel the need of it more in the
city; while the nurses do much of this
they are not always needed, and there are
many little kindnesses required that help to
sweeten one’s loneliness in declining years,
may we have wisdom to guide us in all our
work, we pray the Lord to bless our proph-
et in this day.
	An original poem by Sister E. B. Wells,
entitled “The Elect Lady,” and addressed
to the General President. Bathsheba W.
Smith, was read by the author.
	Sister Priscilla P. Jennings: “Bringing
the young women into the Relief Society
has been spoken of today, aud I want to
say a few words that will bring the young
women in with us. Why could we not
have a class in each ward for sewing, and
have a capable woman to take charge of the
work? We want to ensure happiness, we
have so many cares, so much work to do,
even the mending of stockings could be
done when a few come together, and have
a little pleasure in the meantime in associ-
ating together, mothers would be glad to
sit down for awhile; and even fine needle
work could be brought in; many young wo-
men have not had the opportunity of being
properly taught how to sew and mend, let
them learn these important things, that are
needed in the home. Don’t let our young
girls go to these public dances, let us guard
the steps of the young, we are here to save
our souls, let us reach out our arms in th'is
way; some do not wish the care of house-
keeping, but all these things are womanly,
let us have the sewing class, it will attract
the girls; I love the young people, love to
have them around me, these things are for
the betterment of women and betterment of
men. In looking upon this audience it
does not seem as if the Relief Society was
dead. I pray for our President and for
President Joseph F. Smith.”
	Professor Charles Kent, with his magni-
ficent voice accompanied by his wife, rend-
ered in the most feelingly expressive style,
the hymn composed by President John Tay-
lor, and familiar to all Latter day Saints,
“The Seer, the Seer, Joseph the Seer."
	Sister Mary Alice Lambert, by special re-
quest, told of the first time this hymn was


sung, she was at the house of President
John Taylor, he had just composed it, and
sent for Brother John Kay to sing it, and it
thrilled every one wonderfully then, and it
has been sung so much and always seems
to have that peculiar effect, the speaker al-
luded to having known all the Prophets
and Apostles in the Church; expressed great
emotion in relating some instances of her
experience.
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth was called
unexpectedly, she loved the Relief Society,
thought there was no love so great as that
between parents and children, the family
government does not devolve alone upon
the father, but often more upon the mother,
explained very clearly some of her thoughts
upon this subject and of the children in the
home.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde made the clos-
ing speech, expressed herself delighted
with the reports given, and believed there
was a marked progress being made in the
society, thought if we would always have a
song in our hearts it would be helpful all
the time. “Sisters, don’t get so tired you
can’t speak a kind word to your children;
we want to establish something to throw a
safeguard around our young girls who come
here to go out to service and to obtain situ-
ations in offices, and so on, and we are mak
ing an effort to do this and many other
things.” 
	Conference closed with the rendering of
the beautiful melody, “Joy and Light,” by
Prof. C. J. Thomas assisted by Miss Green,
Mrs. John R. Winder, and Bishop James
Maxwell.
	The Relief Society is greatly indebted to
Prof. Thomas and some of the finest singers
in the Temple choir for the beautiful music
they have given from time to time, which
has added so much to the meetings, and
their efforts have been greatly appreciated
by all those who have listened to the sweet
tones.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Benediction pronounced by Sister Priscilla
Smith.
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		MOTHERS’ WORK.
		BEAR LAKE STAKE.

Lecture I.—Home.
	Family Organization. (a) The father,
his authority, his position, his rights. (b)
The mother, her position and rights. (c)
The children, their position and rights.

Lecture II.—Prayer,
	(a) The power and influence. (b) Be-
lief and faith through the same. (c) When
shall children take part in family prayer?

Lecture III —Physical Development.
	(a) Methods of proper bathing. (b)
Building a healthy body. (c) Proper food
and sleep.

Lecture IV.— Moral Development.
	(a) Reverence for Deity. (b) Reverence
for places of worship. (c) Respect for pub-
lic property.

Lecture V.—Domestic Economy.
	(a) What is it? (b) How may it be ap-
plied in the home? (c) Distinguish econo-
my from stinginess.

Lecture VI.—Marriage.
	(a) Love and courtship. (b) Continu-
ality. c) The ability to make a home and

[Column 2]
care for the same. (d) Marry one of your
own faith.

Lecture VII.—Social Purity.
	(a) How shall we create a higher moral
standing? (b) The aim of parents should
be to arrange and control the environments
of the young people, cure their faults, culti-
vate their talents and develop their virtues.

Lecture VIII.— Sacredness of Honor
	(a) What does it mean? (b) How to get
the children’s confidence. (c) How to up-
root evil by planting good.

Lecture IX.—Dress and Habits,
	(a) Dress for comfort and health. (b)
How habits are formed. (c) Man a bundle
of habits.

Lecture X.—Obedience.
	(a) Parents should set the example by
being obedient to their Heavenly Father.
(b) Children have rights which are often
called “disobedience.” (c) All are not
gifted in the same line. (d) Do not force
children to learn something they have no
inclination or talent for.

Lecture XI.—What does the Mother read?
	(a) Mother’s lack of knowledge. (b)
Mothers reading cheap novels. (c) Mother
as teacher to her children.

Lecture XII.—Books as companion and
teacher.
	(a) Minds are made up largely of what
is put into them. (b) What books should
our children read? (c) The influence of
bad literature.
	Nancy Pugmire, Marie L. Brown, A. C.
Stucki, Committee.

		BLACKFOOT.

Lecture I. Prayer.
	“Prayer is the soul’s sincere desire,
		Uttered or unexpressed,
	The motion of a hidden fire,
		That trembles in the breast.”

	“Prayer is the key to heaven.” Occa-
sion and object of prayer. Reference:—
Luke 18: 17 38 verses; Gen. 18: 23; Sam.
1st chapter; Doctrine and Covenants, Sec.
52: 59; Sec. 58; 33. Pray always.

Lecture 2. Charity.
“Soft peace it brings wherever it arrives,
It bids our quiet—‘latent hope revive,’
Lays the rough path of nature—‘smooth and even,’
And opens in each breast a little heaven.”

	“Charity is the golden chain from heaven
to earth.” “Charity never faileth.” Ref-
erence:—I Cor. 13th Chapter.

Lecture 3. Occupation.
	Be what nature intended you for and you
will succeed. The dignity of occupation
should be judged by its usefulness. Do not
waste time, money and energy in endless
changes and wanderings, but find what
you are adapted for and pursue that with
the energy of your whole soul. “Occupation
in the home.” “Occupation iu the busi-
ness world.” “Occupation in church and
society.”

Lecture 4. Use of Time.
	Time is a blessed heritage from our
heavenly Father. It is a probation,—use
it well. Wise use of time. Unwise use of
time. Indifferent use of time or lack of
purpose in action, “The idle shall not eat

[Column 3]
the bread of industry.” References:—Doc-
trine and Covenants, Sec. 56: 29; Doctrine
and Covenants. Sec. 48: 30-31.

Lecture 5. Wisdom.
	Wisdom is a gift of God.—James 1: 5.
If any man lack wisdom let him ask
of God that giveth to all men liberally and
upbraideth not and it shall be given him.
The fear of the Lord is the beginning of
wisdom. Read from Doctrine and Cove-
nants 42: 68. Wisdom is defined as the
right use and exercise of knowledge. Re-
fer to Proverbs 4: 5, 14, second chapter.

Lecture 6. Virtue.
	Prov. 31: 10. Who can find a virtuous
woman, for her price is above rubies.	We
should ever be diligent in training our
children to guard their virtue as they would
their lives. Refer to 2 Peter, 1: 5; also
Phil. 14: 8. “Virtue will bring its own
reward.”

Lecture 7. Character.
	The mother in her office holds the key of
the soul and it is she who stamps the coin
of real character. What is character?
Character is defined as follows: “The pe-
culiar qualities impressed by nature or
habit, on a person which distinguish him
from others; these constitute real charac-
ter.” Our environments and education
have much to do with our character.
				ANN T. WALKER.

Lecture 8. Faith.
	Faith, what is it? Faith is the substance
of things hoped for the evidence of things
not seen.—Heb. 11: 1-6; Rom. 10: 19; 2
Cor. 5: 7; Jas. 1: 5-7. Healing through
faith.—Matt. 9: 20-22; Mark 5: 34; 10:
46-52; Luke 8: 45-50. Power exercised
through faith. And Jesus said unto them,
becau[-]e of your unbelief for verily I say
unto you, if ye have faith as a grain of
mustard seed you can say unto this moun-
tain, remove hence to yonder place and it
shall remove and nothing shall be impossi-
ble unto you.—Matt. 18: 20; Mark 9: 23;
Luke 17: 6; John 14: 12, Acts 3: 16; Doc.
and Cov. Sec. 8: 10-52; 103: 36. Salvation
promised through faith. Behold his soul
which is lifted up is not upright in him,
but the just shall live by his faith.—Hab.
2: 4; John 3: 14-16; Acts 10: 43; Rom.
1: 16-17. Faith alone insufficient. Not
everyone that saith Lord, Lord, shall enter
into the Kingdom of Heaven, but he that
doeth the will of my Father which is in
heaven.—Matt. 7: 21: John 7: 17; Rom.
2: 5-11; James 2: 14-26; Doc. and Cov. 29:
43-45.

Lecture 9. Repentance.
	Nature of repentance. Let the wicked for-
sake his ways and the unrighteous man his
thoughts and let him return unto the Lord
and He will have mercy upon him, and to
his God and He will abundantly pardon.—
Isaiah 55: 7; Cor. 7: 9 11; Eph. 4 25-32;
Alma 7: 15; Book of Mormon. Necessity
of repentance. And Peter said unto them,
Repent and be baptized every one of you
in the name of Jesus Christ for the remis-
sion of your sins and ye shall receive the
gift of the Holy Ghost. Acts 2: 38; 17:
30; II Nephi 31: 17; 9: 23-24; 31: 17.
Repentance the gift of God. When they
heard these things they held their peace
and glorified God, saying, then hath God
also to the Gentiles granted repentance un-


to life.—Acts II: 18; Rom. 2: 4; Tim. 2:
25. The repentant forgiven.—I Kings 8:
47-50; Luke 15: 7; Alma 5: 33-84-36. The
repentant favored. Yea, he that lepenteth
and exerciseth faith and bringeth forth good
works and prayeth continually without
ceasing, unto such it is given to know the
mysteries of God, etc.—Alma 26: 21-22;
III Nephi 16: 13; Ether 5: 5.

Lecture 10. Baptism.
	Necessity of baptism  Then came Jesus
from Galilee to Jordan unto John to be
baptized of him, etc. Matt 3: 13-17; Mark
16: 16; John 3: 3-5; Acts 3: 38; 1 Peter 3:
21. Subjects of baptism. Matt. 3: 7, 8
Mark 2: 29; 6: 2, 3; Doc. & Cov. 20: 3.7
Infant baptism. Mormon 8: 7-11; Doc. &
68: 27. Object of baptism. John did bap-
tize in the wilderness and preach the bap-
tism of repentance for the remission of
sins. Mark 1: 4; Luke 2: 3; Acts 22: 16,
II Nephi 25, 24; 3: 5 17. Mode of bap-
tism. And Jesus, when He was baptized,
went straightway out of the water, etc;
Matt. 3: 16; 3: 5, 6; John 3: 3-5; 23; Acts
 8: 36-39; 22: 19; Rom. 6: 3-5. Authority
essential to baptism. Acts 18: 23, 25; 19:
1-6; Mosiah 18: 13-17; 31: 33; Alma 4: 4;
15: 13; III Nephi 7: 25; 11: 21, 22-25.

Lecture 11. Confirmation.
	Confirmation follows baptism. And he
said unto them, Have ye received the Holy
Ghost since ye believed? And they said
unto him, We have not so much as heard
whether there be any Holy Ghost, etc.
Acts 19: 2-6; 8: 14-16; Mark 7 10 Doc.
& Cov. 20: 41-49; 14: 52. Baptism of the
Holy Ghost. John 1: 33, Acts 1: 5; II
Nephi 31:13 13; III Nephi 12:1; 19:13. 14.
The Holy Ghost received through the
laying on of hands. And when Paul had
laid his hands upon them the Holy Ghost
came on them and they spake with tongues
and prophesied. Acts 19: 6; 8: 15-20; Heb
6: 1:4.

Lecture 12. Review Entire Lectures.
			ANN T. WALKER,
			HATTIE C. JENSEN,
			LUCY W. STEERS.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


A SAD DEATH.
	Sister Sarah M. Hammond, Secretary of the
First Ward Relief Society of the Liberty Stake of
Zion, departed this life May 1, 1905.
	Sister Hammond was the daughter of Daniel and
Sarah Hammond, of Millville, Cache county. She
was born in Ogden on the 11th of July, 1861, and
was reared a Latter-day Saint, her parents being
among the pioneers who crossed the plains in
ox teams. She was a dutiful and loving daughter.
At the age of 24 she became the wife of Dates R.
Hammond, son of Milton D. Hammond, of Prov-
idence. The marriage was solemnized in the
Logan temple. Owing to the business of Brother
Hammond they traveled a good deal of the time,
coming back occasionally to the old homestead.
About eight years ago they finally settled in Salt
Lake City.
	Sister Hammond was a Saint in very deed. She
was loved by all who knew her, and especially by
the sisters of the Relief Society, who lose in her
not only a friend but a good hard worker.
	She was elected secretary of the First Ward Re-
lief Society on February 1, 1902, occupying that
position up to the time of her death. Her books
were always kept very neat, correct, and up to
date. She leaves a husband and four sons, the
oldest being 19 and the youngest ten days old; also
two brothers and four sisters and a host of friends
to mourn her loss
	Her married life was an exceptionally happy
one, and may our Father comfort the bereaved in
this their hour of trial,
		MARY K. STELTER, Asst, Sec.


IN MEMORIAM.
		SARAH JANE HALLIDAY.

Like weary and worn-out children, that sigh for
	the daylight’s close.
He knows that they oft are longing for home and
	its sweet repose;
So He calls them in from their labors, ere the
	shadows o’er them creep,
And silently watching o’er them, He giveth His
	loved one’s sleep.

	One cannot help feelings of solemnity in parting
with old and dear friends, however confident you
may be that all is well with the loved one that has
gone on before.
	Sister Sarah Jane Halliday, whose demise we
now record, passed away at her home in Santa-
quin, Utah, March 27, 1905, at the ripe age of
83. She was the wife of the late Patriarch George
Halliday, was born April 13, 1822, at Higham,
Leicestershire, England; baptized into the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, October 4,
1847; came to Utah in 1853, hence endured many
of the trials of pioneer life.

			RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas the Supreme Ruler of the universe has
called from our midst our beloved Sister Sarah
Jane Halliday; and whereas she was a faithful
teacher in the Santaquin Ward Relief Society,
performing that duty in her advanced age, never
tiring in well doing. Therefore we desire to
honor her memory. Her charity never failed;
she was ever willing to care for t e sick and to
help the widow and fatherless, thereby gaining
the goodwill and affection of her associates. Her
great desire was to remain true and faithful to the
Gospel of Christ. This she has done, and labored
devotedly for the advancement of the work of
God.
	Therefore, be it resolved by the sisters of the
Santaquin Ward Relief Society that we tender to
her bereaved sons and daughters our heartfelt
sympathy, and trust that they will be comforted
in the assurance that their mother is not dead,
but has gone to a brighter and better world; be it
further
	Resolved, that a copy of these resolutions be
enrolled upon the records of the Society, and also
published in the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
			ALICE ELLSWORTH, Secretary.
	Santaquin, Utah, May 13 1905.


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.

TO THE MEMORY OF MARGARET P. EVANS. WHO DE-
	PARTED THIS LIFE MARCH 8TH, 1905.

	Sister Margaret P. Evans, who departed this
life March 8th, 1905, to join her loved ones who
had gone before, was a woman of great strength
of character and uncommon executive ability. She
will be missed in various ways and in many
places.
	She was a woman of great integrity to the Gos-
pel, and of a generous nature. Her go d deeds
will live in the memory of many whom she help-
ed without letting her right hand know what her
left hand doeth, according to the scripture.
	Sister Evans was teacher and efficient treasurer
in the Relief Society for many years, which office
she held at the time of her death.
	She was also a member of the Ward Choir and
took an active part in the Sunday School and the
Y. L. M. I. A.
	The Relief Society officers of Timpanogus
Ward, to which she belonged, wishing to do honor
to her memory, have prepared the following

			RESOLUTIONS:
	Whereas, Our much esteemed sister and co-lab-
orer has by the hand of Divine Providence been
removed from our midst and has, we feel confi-
dently assured, gone to a better world, we, her
sisters, who know her many loving deeds and ap-
preciate her many noble qualities, desire to express
our tender sympathy for the bereaved family and
to acknowledge her labors and ministrations of
kindness as a member of the Relief Society and
also as a friend and neighbor in the best sense of
the word. Therefore, be it
	Resolved, That we humbly testify that Charity
and Humility were leading traits of her character.
	Resolved, That we tender our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved family of the deceased, and
the sisters of the society to which she belonged
may we follow her noble example of diligence and
faithfulness.
	Resolved, That these Resolutions be recorded in


the Relief Society record and also be presented to
the family and published in the WOMAN’S EXPO-
NENT.
				PHOEBE KARTCHNER,
				EMMA POULSEN,
				TEMPERANCE EVANS.
				JULIA LOVELESS.
	In behalf of the Timpanogus Ward Relief So-
ciety.


UTAH COMMISSION, LEWIS AND CLARK
			EXPOSITION.
	One hundred years ago, Meriwether
Lewis and William Clark, under the direc-
tion of President Thomas Jefferson, crossed
the continent, explored the northwest, and
won for this nation the magnificent empire
that stretches from the backbone of the
continent to the prolific waters of the Pacific
ocean. An inspiring page ot American
history tells of the achievement of these
pioneers.
	Proud of this achievement, and reveling
in the prosperity that followed it, the peo-
ple of the northwest have completed plans
for the celebration of the centennial anni-
versary of the arrival of the pioneers in an
exposition to be held in the city of Port-
land, opening June 1 and closing O[-]tober
15. The sum of $5,000,000 has been se-
cured for the purpose The promise is
given that the display of the resources of
the West and of the Orient will be the
greatest in history.
	Utah is peculiarly interested in this ex-
hibition. There is much in the story of
the heroes who won the west for our nation
to appeal with force to the people of this
state—children and beneficiaries of a simi-
lar band of state builders. In addition to
this, Utah holds much in common with
the states of the West. In all branches of
industry, socially and politically, the states
of the Pacific slope are linked in the closest
ties. Most travelers from the East and
South will pass through Utah when they
visit Portland next summer.
	The legislature appropriated $30,000 to
enable this state to make an exhibit at this
exposition. As a basis, the commissioners
have in their possession part of the dis-
play made at St. Louis last year. They
have arranged for the erection of a state
building on a choice spot at the fair, and
in this one building will be arranged all
that Utah has to show.
	The citizens of the entire state are urged
to co-operate with the commsssioners to
the end that Utah, the baby sister in the
family of commonwealths, may appear to
advantage in the eyes of visitors from all
parts of the civilized world. The time is
short, and prompt action is urged. All ex-
hibits intended for the fair should be in the
hands of the commissioners in Salt Lake
not later than May 15 As far as possible,
members of the commission or those placed
in charge of particular departments will
visit the different parts of the state and ex-
plain in detail what is especially desired in
the way of exhib[-]ts.
	In the meantime, the headquarters of the
commission will be in the City and County
Building in Salt Lake, adjoining the office
of the Governor. There all interested in
the exhibit will be made welcome, and
there will be found some one ready and wil-
ling to furni[-]h information desired.
	John C. Cutler, Chairman, Wesley K.
Walton, Rudolph Cutler, Webb Greene, F.
W. Fishburn, commissioners for Utah.
	M. F. Cunningham, secretary, Spencer
Clawson, manager.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


THE NATIONAL CONVENTION.
	The 37th Annual Convention of the Na-
tional American Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion will be held in the First Congregation-
al Church, Portland, Oregon, June 28 to
July 5, inclusive.
	A cordial invitation is extended to all
who believe in the inalienable right of wo-
men to self-government, and also those not
yet in sympathy with the purposes of this
association,
	A government of men and women—not
by women alone, not by men alone, but a
government of men and women, by men
and women, for men and women—this is
the aim and ideal of our association. 
	The movement for the enfranchisement
of women is based upon the unchangeable
principles of human liberty, in accordance
with which successive classes of men have
won the right of self-government.
	SUSAN B. ANTHONY,
				Honorary President.
	REV. ANNA HOWARD SHAW,
						President.
	CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT,
					Vice-President.
	ALICE STONE BLACKWELL,
				Recording Secretary.
	KATE M. GORDON,
			Corresponding Secretary.
	HARRIET TAYLOR UPTON,
						Treasurer.
	LAURA CLAY,
	CORA SMITH EATON,
						Auditors.


R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67, 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE, and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you
	as much as possible for your money.				TRY US

Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 41,191 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also childrenwho are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to five thousand, and compute said
	interest Semi-annually.
WRITE for any information desired.
		JOSEPH F. SMITH, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
No. 1 East Temple Street.


[Column 1]
TRIBUTE TO SISTER CAROLINE PACE.
	“Sister Caroline Pace is dead.” These
words brought sorrow to every household
that was wont to receive succor in the past
from the hand of the departed, and they
were multitudes.
	What a beautiful life was hers on earth!
A ministering angel in times of sorrow,
blessed with a gladsome soul for those who
could smile. She would brave the elements
in the fiercest of storms to alleviate the sor-
row and suffering of the poor and distressed,
without one thought of personal gain; the
knowledge that she could do some one some
good was sufficient for her.
	Imagine a woman whose every thought
was for the welfare of those about her;
whose hand and brain were never idle, but
always working for the accomplishment of
good; whose faith has accomplished wonders
at the bedside of the sick; whose presence
has lightened the cares and bandaged up
the hope of the convalescent; and whose
never failing faith in her Heavenly Father
made her a heroine in the presence of death
—such a woman was Aunt Caroline Pace.
Already we have asked; “Who will care
for the dead, now Sister Pace is gone?”
	Aunt Caroline, no grave stone need be
erected to perpetuate your memory—your
life’s labor form a grand monument, whose
beauty cannot be marred by the crumbling
influence of the elements, nor whose epitaph
can be effaced by the ever ceaseless flow of
the stream of time.

[Column 2]
	She is not lost, only gone before to a
greater sphere where her beautiful life will
grow more beautiful by contact with the
peaceful influence of Heavenly presence.
	God grant that she may rest in peace and
that we may live lives sufficiently pure to
meet with her in the spirit world for we
feel to say to meet her there will be to know
Heaven.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, God in His infinite wisdom has
seen fit to call from our midst our beloved
president, Sister Caroline Pace.
	Whereas, We feel that we have lost one
of our most worthy members and devoted
workers.
	Therefore, Be it resolved by the members
of the Spanish Fork Second ward Relief
Society that we mourn her untimely death
but feel to say that our loss is the Father’s
gain and hence from this we gain some
comfort.
	Resolved, That we extend to the family
of the deceased our sincere sympathy.
	Resolved, Further that a copy of these
resolutions together with the above tribute
be spread upon the records of the society
and that a copy be printed in The Spanish
Fork Press, also WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Sweet friend of the needy, kind helper of youth,
Firm guardian of merit, bright lover of truth,
Thy sleep shall be peaceful, unbroken thy rest,
Thy spirit, disburdened, shall sleep on God’s
	breast.

Oh, well wo remember, sweet spirit, the light,
God lent us awhile ere it sank in the night—
The night we call death, yet in vain we see—
The day spring of glory envelopeth thee.

Sweet, sweet be thy slumber, unbroken thy rest,
Sleep sweet as a babe on the Savior’s kind breast,
God grant we may meet thee on Heaven’s bright
	shore,
To part with thee, dear one, in grief, nevermore.


[Column 1]
KAIZER WILLIAM’S STABLES.
	Opposite the Imperial Palace in Berlin,
the large five story building is that of the
Emperor’s stables.
	Up an inclined walk, we reach the second
story, where are housed the royal carriage
horses, seventy-eight in number. They are
large and coal black, each one wearing a
blanket, in the corner of which is embroid-
ered the Kaizer’s crest and a crown.
	In the third story are the saddle horses
used for riding and the chase. These are
not so large, and are of a lighter color. A
few at the farther end seem to have special
privileges, being in box stalls. One at
least is old, for he put out his tongue in a
caressing manner to any one who would
rub his nose, so we discovered he had no
teeth.
	On the next floor are the carriages, (a
great many.) The silver and blue decora-
tions denote the royal family, the red ones
the court. In another room are the court
and coronation coaches, of rare design and
lavishly emblazoned with gold. On the
next floor are the kitchen wagons, as they
are called. These are used by the hunting

[Column 2]
parties for conveying provisions. One is
very large and is capable of carrying enough
food to feed sixty persons for a week. One
hunting wagon has a complete boat in its
bed, the seats of the wagon being also the
seat of the boat. Upon being lifted out of
the wagon, the boat is ready for the water.
One very large kitchen wagon was the gift
of King Edward of England, but the guide
told us it had never been used. In this de-
partment are about a dozen handsome
sleighs, fine lap robes are thrown over these,
thus indicating that they are ready to be
taken out at a moment’s notice.
	The Kinderwagen, used by the Emper-
or’s children, is shown here, and the garden
wagon, used by Queen Louise, the uphol-
stery of which is tattered and faded. Be-
aides these are others belonging to royal
personages, and some invalid or Bath
chairs. In one corner is the horse on which
Frederick the Great was wont to ride, with
its embroidered saddle trappings. It seems
incredible that its form could be preserved
so long, being over two hundred and fifty
years, though now the hair is falling off its
back. In the opposite corner is shown
likewise the horse on which William I. rode
during the Franco-Prussian war.
	It is evident that horses have been im-
proved since those days, both in color and
in size, Much attention is paid to pedi-
grees. Each one of the present Emperor’s
horses has its name and pedigree on a sign
at the head of its stall. It seems odd to us
to see the hostlers with black broadcloth
trousers, and scarlet colored velvet jackets,
working among the horses.
	In another department the harness is
kept. One set is so heavy that it is said the
horses have to carry twenty pounds of lead
on their heads fora week to accustom them
to its weight. The coronation harness is
about half gold, to match the coach. The
silver and blue harness is used with the
royal carriages. There are four sets of sad-
dle harness, never used, which were pre-
sented to the Emperor by the Sultan of
Moscow. Their design is elegant, the ori-
ental work in them most ingenious and
beautiful. There is more harness displayed
used, as the guide said, on gala occasions
with the coaches also used then.
	All this finery is to come out when the
Crown Prince is married next May. Then
the people may behold where a mint of
wealth is lying useless save during the pa-
geant of a royal marriage.
				LYDIA D. ALDER. 
	Berlin, March. 1905.

