We Believe In Obeying, Honoring and Sustaining the Law
By Don B. Colton
THE month of February seems to be a very appropriate time to give study to a subject of vital importance, not only to Latter-day Saints, but also to the entire nation. Washington, whose birthday anniversary occurs February 22, was a great exemplar of obedience to law. The revolution which he led was not against law, but was necessary because fundamental rights were being denied to the colonists in America. The rights, which brave Englishmen had wrung from King John at Runnymede and which were granted in the Magna Charta in 1215, were being withheld. Our forefathers fought to sustain law. While slavery precipitated the war between the states, the primary motive of Lincoln and his followers was to sustain the fundamental law of the land which had created an indissoluble union of states. The preservation of the Constitution and the Union was always uppermost in President Lincoln's mind. Obedience to law and especially the Constitution was almost a passion with him.
THE Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has, from the beginning, made emphatic declaration regarding the duty of its members to obey and uphold constitutional law. No. 12 of the Articles of Faith reads as follows: "We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring and sustaining the law." The Prophet Joseph Smith, first President of the Church, once said, "the cause of human liberty is the cause of God." Liberty is enjoyed by those who obey law. While the Prophet always contended for the principles of equal rights and protection for all American citizens, he always pursued what he considered a strictly legal course. He frequently stated, "we are anxious to be governed strictly by law."
Brigham Young, the second President of the Church, taught the Latter-day Saints the same doctrine. That he believed the government inspired of God is shown by the following excerpt from one of his many speeches on this subject: "The general Constitution of our country is good, and a wholesome government could be framed upon it; for it was dictated by the invisible operations of the Almighty. He moved upon Columbus to launch forth upon the trackless deep to discover the American continent. He moved upon the signers of the Declaration of Independence, and he moved upon Washington to fight and conquer, in the same way that he has moved upon ancient and modern prophets, each being inspired to accomplish the particular work he was called to perform, in the times, seasons and dispensations of the Almighty."
Every president of the Church, including President Heber J. Grant, has repeatedly exhorted the members to obey the laws of the land as well as the laws of God. Speaking by and large of the people as a whole, I think it can be safely said that Latter-day Saints are a law-abiding, peaceable, and patient people. Of course perfection cannot be claimed, but their whole history has been one of obedience to what they believed to be constitutional law.
SCRIPTURES, both ancient and modern, are replete with the teachings of men of God to obey just laws. Paul, writing to Titus, exhorted him to teach the people to be law-abiding. He said, "Put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates, to be ready to do every good work." In the Book of Mormon, we read, "this people must abide by the law." On August 1, 1831, the Lord said to the Church: "Let no man break the laws of the land, for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land." I have given only one quotation from each of three of the standard works of the Church. Many similar ones could be quoted.
LATTER-DAY SAINTS have learned from the scriptures, from inspired men and from experience how necessary it is to obey law. With such a background one would think nothing more need be said. On the contrary, however, we, like all other citizens, need to be constantly reminded. On every hand we find people, otherwise responsible, who take the position that laws are for those who choose to obey them. Sociologists are agreed that with the breaking out of the World War there came a general breaking down of obedience to and enforcement of law. I commend to the readers of this magazine the first article in the January, 1938, Atlantic Monthly, entitled, "The Collapse of Conscience." We are not so much in need just now of a class conscience as we are an awakening of an individual conscience. "Where personal conscience dies there is no freedom."
Not long ago three young ladies walked out of one of our leading candy and refreshment stores. They were heard to laugh and boast that they had not paid for their refreshments and had escaped without being detected. It seemed to them a good joke. It is surprising how many people, otherwise respectable, are being used to advertise products as harmless when they have never used these products. When do we find now-a-days another Lincoln, who will walk many miles to return a few pennies taken by mistake? Gone, in most cases, is that fine sense of strict, rugged honesty which used to be so often noted in America.
THE enforcement and obedience to the laws of the United States and the states of the Union are among the most vital problems before the people of this country today. It is more vital to the preservation of our free institutions than almost any other question. One great authority recently said, "More than nine thousand human beings are lawlessly killed in the United States each year. (This does not include the number killed in auto accidents.) Little more than half as many arrests follow. Less than one-sixth of these slayers are convicted, and but a scandalously small percentage are adequately punished. Twenty times as many people in proportion to population are lawlessly killed in the United States as in Great Britain. In many of our great cities murder can apparently be committed with impunity. At least fifty times as many robberies in proportion to population are committed in the United States as in the United Kingdom, and three times as many burglaries."
Whatever the value of any law may be, the enforcement of that law, written in plain terms upon our statute books, is not in my mind, a debatable question. Law should be observed and must be enforced until it is repealed by the proper processes of our democracy. The duty to enforce the law rests upon every public official and the duty to obey it rests upon every citizen. "The very essence of freedom is obedience to law. Liberty itself has but one foundation, and that is in the law."
Few people seem to realize the force of the ideas set forth in the quoted paragraphs. If a law is unpopular, it should be repealed, but until then it should be obeyed. Any other course will lead to chaos and anarchy. Even though the processes outlined by the supreme law of the land, the Constitution, to some seem cumbersome and even archaic they should be amended or repealed; never nullified or ignored. The Latter-day Saints especially should be on guard concerning the very foundation of their liberty. Men may honestly believe that certain fundamental changes should be made in our form of government. Let them advocate these changes in the open and not on the pretext that the processes of change are too cumbersome. When principles are at stake there can be no compromise.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN once said, "Let every man remember that to violate the law is to trample on the blood of his father and to tear the character of his own and his children's liberty. Let reverence for the laws be breathed by every American mother to the lisping babe that prattles on her lap. Let it be taught in the schools, in seminaries, in colleges. Let it be preached from the pulpit, proclaimed in the legislative halls and enforced in the courts of justice of the nation, and let the old and the young, the rich and the poor, the grave and the gay of all sexes and tongues and colors and conditions sacrifice unceasingly upon its altar."
I KNOW of no better summary of the whole question than is found in Section 134 of the Doctrine and Covenants:
"We believe that governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man; and that he holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them, both in making laws and administering them, for the good and safety of society.
"We believe that no government can exist in peace, except such laws are framed and held inviolate as will secure to each individual the free exercise of conscience, the right and control of property, and the protection of life.
"We believe that all governments necessarily require civil officers and magistrates to enforce the laws of the same; and that such as will administer the law in equity and justice should be sought for and upheld by the voice of the people if a republic, or the will of the sovereign.
"We believe that religion is instituted of God; and that men are amenable to him, and to him only, for the exercise of it, unless their religious opinions prompt them to infringe upon the rights and liberties of others; but we do not believe that human law has a right to interfere in prescribing rules of worship to bind the consciences of men, nor dictate forms for public or private devotion; that the civil magistrate should restrain crime, but never control conscience; should punish guilt, but never suppress the freedom of the soul.
"We believe that all men are bound to sustain and uphold the respective governments in which they reside, while protected in their inherent and inalienable rights by the laws of such governments; and that sedition and rebellion are unbecoming every citizen thus protected, and should be punished accordingly; and that all governments have a right to enact such laws as in their own judgments are best calculated to secure the public interest; at the same time, however, holding sacred the freedom of conscience.
"We believe that every man should be honored in his station, rulers and magistrates as such, being placed for the protection of the innocent and the punishment of the guilty; and that to the laws all men owe respect and deference, as without them peace and harmony would be supplanted by anarchy and terror; human laws being instituted for the express purpose of regulating our interests as individuals and nations, between man and man; and divine laws given of heaven, prescribing rules on spiritual concerns, for faith and worship, both to be answered by man to his Maker.
"We believe that rulers, states, and governments have a right, and are bound to enact laws for the protection of all citizens in the free exercise of their religious belief; but we do not believe that they have a right in justice to deprive citizens of this privilege, or proscribe them in their opinions, so long as a regard and reverence are shown to the laws and such religious opinions do not justify sedition nor conspiracy.
"We believe that the commission of crime should be punished according to the nature of the offense; that murder, treason, robbery, theft, and the breach of the general peace, in all respects, should be punished according to their criminality and their tendency to evil among men, by the laws of that government in which the offense is committed; and for the public peace and tranquility all men should step forward and use their ability in bringing offenders against good laws to punishment.
"We do not believe it just to mingle religious influence with civil government, whereby one religious society is fostered and another proscribed in its spiritual privileges, and the individual rights of its members, as citizens, denied.
"We believe that all religious societies have a right to deal with their members for disorderly conduct, according to the rules and regulations of such societies; provided that such dealings be for fellowship and good standing; but we do not believe that any religious society has authority to try men on the right of property or life, to take from them this world's goods, or to put them in jeopardy of either life or limb, or to inflict any physical punishment upon them. They can only excommunicate them from their society, and withdraw from them their fellowship.
"We believe that men should appeal to the civil law for redress of all wrongs and grievances, where personal abuse is inflicted or the right of property or character infringed, where such laws exist as will protect the same,