The Romance of Lace By Dorothy Nell Mair be-decked valentines at this season of the year, as well as the popular use of lace for wearing apparel the past two years, recalls to us a bit of its romantic history. While there are no records to prove that lace existed before 1500 A. D. It is believed to have been used by early Egyptians, due to the findings in old tombs and excavations. The fabrics found are not lace, as we know it, but an open mesh cloth made of gold and silver and colored threads, often studded with gems and elaborately ornamented, suggesting the splendor of the East. Moorish, Greek and Arabian patterns have been found, which testify to the fact that lace-making is not a comparatively new art, but a very old one, restored. Italy has long been famous for its drawn work, or cut work, from which developed the present needle point lace patterns. This drawn work was exceedingly popular in the days of the Doges of Venice. It was called Nun's Cloth, having been made in convents by the nuns who devoted much of their time to teaching the making of it, and who attempted new designs and methods. From these patient experiments developed the first "Point in the Air," or Venetian Lace. This new form immediately became popular. At this same time, the printing press was making its appearance with marked success. Through it, lace-making instructions and patterns were taught to the peasantry and brought about the beginning of a great industry which flourished and spread. Lace reached its greatest popularity during the Renaissance when all Europe was a show place for extravagance. The use of lace was not confined to the costumes of gracious ladies, but found its way into the costumes of the men as well. It was used profusely on ruffs about the neck, cuffs falling gracefully over the hands, and rows of it were placed around the tops of large flared boots worn by the guards of the king. Lace was indispensable at court, and because of it, the lacemaking industry flourished, bringing to women in the homes of the peasantry a means of livelihood. Linen thread is used for making lace, and it is said, the flax of Flanders is the best in the world. Great care is taken in the spinning of the flax. To protect it from exposure to dry air, which might cause it to break, it is spun in dark underground rooms. Lace-making thread can be used for regular sewing, but regular sewing thread can not be used for making lace. Cotton thread lacks the strength and durability necessary in lace, and although it is a beautiful white, it discolors and stretches out of shape when washed. ABOUT the same time as Venice was promoting her new art? needle point lace, or "Point in the Air"?F landers was also promoting a lace-making industry of a different type. To Barbara Uttman in 1561 goes the credit for inventing pillow lace in Flanders. This lace is made by bobbins attached to linen threads, and passed over and under each other until they cross, plait, and twist to form intricate designs. The work is done on a hard, round pillow to THE ROMANCE OF LACE 91 which is pinned the parchment pattern. Needle point lace is just what its name implies, being done with a needle and thread and consists of the loop stitch woven over single threads stretched from one point to another in accordance with the pattern followed. Both Flanders and Venice rank first in the making of their particular type of lace, but Venice, with all the popularity of the needle point variety, has not forsaken the ancient cut-work. Were it not for the modern, yet delicate, lace-making machinery the cost of lace would make its use prohibitive to the average woman. It was not until after years of experimentation that the lace-making machinery was perfected. The struggle in perfecting it is no less romantic than the origin of lace itself. Today, the finest patterns in either needle point or bobbin lace can be copied without excessive cost, and makes available to every one this delicate finery.