"With some the word liberty may mean for each man to do as he pleases with himself, and the product of his labor; while with others the same word may mean for some men to do as they please with other men, and the product of other men's labor."?Abraham Lincoln.
Children's Reading
By Florence Ivins Hyde
NO. II?IMAGINATIVE PERIOD
"Could we give one gift to every child, We should choose the love of books." ?William Frederick Bigelow.
NO one is born with fine taste. It is an acquired quality. The love of beauty, whether expressed in art, literature, or music, is necessary to the rounding out of a happy human life. It is a thing we can give our children. Even when a child is too young to understand stories, he is influenced by the literary background of his family. The story hour, best just before bedtime, can serve as the artistic cradle of a child just as it has for the race. The story hour leads the child to read for himself. The important thing is that during the early years, the child have good books and be protected from bad books, poorly written books, insincere books, books which preach untrue sentiments. Keep such things from your child as he reads. Do not allow a child to read poor books just because he likes them; so does he like pie.
Besides giving us literary taste, books influence us profoundly in our attitudes toward life. In an appreciation of beauty we have an outlet for the emotions nothing else can give. In this appreciation is found compensation for all sorts of disappointments. So the habits of reading formed in childhood, which will undoubtedly carry over into adult life, act as a safeguard in meeting the problems of life. Plato long ago said, "In order to teach a child truth, it is necessary to teach him fiction."
THE period between 8 and 12 years is a wonderful one to sow seeds of a high type. City children are continually exposed to evil companions, the pleasures of the street, low shows, bad pictures, cheap books, almost from babyhood. The church, the school, the playground, and other agencies are doing what they can to counteract these influences, but they cannot do the work that might be done in the home. A child gets knowledge and skills from his teachers but his standards of conduct from his parents. Ideals have to be taught at home. Literature is especially rich in ethical values. It is the author's interpretation of life. Its first function is to make clear and enrich our understanding of life. Directed reading habits can aid in establishing ethical standards. Dr. Henry Neuman says, "Training which imparts knowledge or develops skills or cultivates tastes or intellectual attitudes fails of its supreme object if it leaves children no better morally."
During the years between 8 and 12 boys crave action, danger and daring. It is the time during which many misdirected boys begin careers of crime. They must have tales which satisfy this craving for adventure. Our job is to do it with wholesome stories.
THERE is no finer adventure story than "Robin Hood." We suggest the Howard Pyle edition. In re-telling the story, picture Robin Hood not as an outlaw but as a man devoting his life to redressing the wrongs in an age of injustice, when might made right. His sense of justice appeals to boys and girls. The stories of "King Arthur and his Knights," of "Beowulf," are full of adventure of a high type. "The Boy's Mabinogian," by Sidney Lanier, should be owned by every boy. Don't feel that this is dull reading because it is classic reading. A very brief acquaintance with the greatest writers develops taste. After this taste has been established such thrillers as "Tarzan" will not be so attractive. If your boy at first is bored, relieve the program with a modern type such as "Tom Sawyer" or "Biography of a Grizzly," by Steward E. White. Then go back to the classical story.
ENCOURAGE children to collect good books. A book shelf or table near their beds will help. Remember that reading children are educated children just as reading adults are educated adults. Many boys and girls are reaching maturity without the capacity to assimilate what is fine in books. This delight is being denied them in life.
One mother has a plan of providing for each child a note book in which to write the fine passages he discovers as he reads. For example, such passages as this from "The Adventures of Bobby Ord," when he felt he was defeated?"Always remember that a true sportsman is about the scarcest thing they make, and the finest. So naturally the common run of people don't live up to it. If you?not the thinking you, nor even the conscious you, but the way down deep in your heart you, that you can't fool, nor trick, nor lie to?if that you is satisfied, it's all right."
There is plenty of preaching in those lines but your boy will take it from Bobby Ord's old friend when he may not take it from you. In spite of all the training a mother can give, a boy looks to men for his models. In conversation and reading a boy and his father come closely together in a way they both enjoy. If your son has teased for a gun, his father might read to him the story of Bobby Ord, talk it over and he will feel as if he has owned that gun himself.
A child who loves books lives in a world of continual adventure.
GIVE your children love. Give them health. Give them good books. And nothing in life can daunt them.
SUGGESTED BOOKS TO BUY Anderson's Fairy Tales?there are none better. Child's Garden of Verses, Stevenson?Poetry. Tailor of Gloucester, Beatrix Potter?charming to read and re-read.
"Ideals are like stars; you will not succeed in touching them with your hands, but like the sea-faring man on the desert of waters, you choose them as your guides, and, following them, you reach your destiny."?Carl Schurz.