(To be continued)
She Strives To Conquer
By Lais Hales
A SHORT time ago there appeared a wise and helpful book called She Strives to Conquer, by Frances Maule. Its aim was primarily to help the business girl by stating her problems and offering practical solutions based on present-day working conditions and requirements. The subjects discussed, however, apply to all women and the successful living of their lives.
Miss Maule tells us in her Foreword that never before has so much been required of the woman in business as at the present time. Business these days has no use for amateurs. You must not only have a better education and more and better specialized training, but you must look the part of your position and you must be able to measure up in every respect to its requirements. Jobs are hard to get but never were there jobs so well worth having. Practically no field is closed, and in some fields women are given definite preference. High positions, top salaries are open to any woman who has the powers, combined with business equipment, to capture them. "The woman's point of view" and "the feminine touch" are important phrases today.
To succeed the business girl must observe certain unwritten rules and laws not found in any books on etiquette. The world of business is a world in itself and to itself. Its relationships, its standards, its values, its ways of doing things are different, and often absolutely opposed to the ways of the world of "polite society." A large proportion of the failures to make good in business are due to some lack in pleasing personal qualities rather than to shortcomings in the way of ability and training.
BUSINESS manners are not made. Nor do they just happen. They grow naturally out of human experience. To understand the why of business etiquette we must realize first that business exists to make money. Errors are expensive. Every employee must be a paying investment. Everybody, down to the youngest filing clerk, can be a partner in a business organization if she really wants to.
The girl of good breeding is recognized in business, as elsewhere, by the amount of self-control, dignity and good humor she is able to show under trying circumstances. She sees that in business whatever is necessary to get an important job done, is correct. Upon each one of the many cogs depends the smooth functioning of the great machine?business. One of the foundation stones of office ethics is that what applies to one must apply to all. Any effort to get away with privileges that are not?and in the nature of things cannot be?shared by others, is set down by all as just "not cricket."
Time is one of the most valuable of commodities. In business, time is money. The wise girl wastes no office time. Nor does she use that time for anything but her work. The higher she goes in business the greater the trust reposed in her. A girl embarking upon a business career cannot resolve too soon or too strongly to show that she is worthy.
The good sport in business gives her job all she's got. She is an answer to the business man's prayer?"Send us the girls who do the work For which they draw the wage."
If you ask big business executives and employment experts why so few women reach the top in business, the answer most often received is that women are too personal. Personality is important but in business personality means control and the ability to keep those aspects of your personality that have no relation to your work strictly hidden away during office hours. Emotion?any kind of emotion?is altogether out of place. Displays of strong feeling are in questionable taste anywhere in public. See all business matters impersonally. Oversensitiveness in an employee is rated as a liability and not an asset. Be slow to take offense. Usually no offense is meant. Maintain an impersonal attitude.
THE girl who gets the job these days is the girl who best understands how to sell herself. She should think of herself as offering a service rather than as asking for a job. This will give ease and assurance. In business, tact, poise, initiative, reliability, cooperativeness and adaptability are the five most desirable personality qualifications. These are very important as is seen in the decision of certain business psychologists that only about fifteen per cent of business success can be credited to skill, training and experience, and that the other eighty-five per cent must be checked up to personal qualifications.
The ideal, of course, is to find jobs that fit our personalities. But this isn't always possible. So we must be prepared to do a certain amount of adapting of our personalities to the jobs. Every new skill or ability we acquire builds up, enriches and strengthens the personality. The business girl should train herself to be always courteous, well-mannered and good-tempered, and learn how to keep her nerves and emotions under perfect control. Then simply and inevitably she will have the personality that every employer wants.
America has at last become speech-conscious. We have become aware that in cultured circles all over the world "the American voice" is mentioned only as an example of what a voice should not be. In business it is not only the voice with the smile that wins, but the voice?and the accent?that gives evidence of refined and cultivated backgrounds of home, family and friends. Voice culturists tell us that, barring actual defects, we are born with naturally good voices. All we need to do is to unlearn our bad habits. We are told that we speak as we hear. Make a point of hearing the best. Unconsciously and almost effortlessly we will improve.
To get a job these days, one must look healthy. To keep a job one must be healthy. Keep fit. Short rest periods at frequent intervals are better than long rest periods at infrequent intervals. Exercise, fresh air, rest, sleep and proper food largely determine health and working capacity. If you want anything very much, go after it. Don't have a wishbone where your backbone ought to be.
IN selecting an office wardrobe the watchword should be conservative good taste. Hold fast to the tried and true. Choose the less conspicuous styles. Employers cling tenaciously to the conviction that the ideal costume for the business woman is navy blue or black with touches of white at the neck and wrists. Men hate masculine clothes for the business woman. Sleeveless dresses are not the thing for business. A single color scheme in making up your wardrobe is recommended. The plainest shoes are the smartest. Very high heels are out. Rubber heels take the jar off the spine and off the nerves of the employer. The darker shades in stockings are best and these of the service or semi-service weights. A piece or two of conservative jewelry is allowed. It would be better not to wear earrings. Crimson fingernails are a final and outstanding mark of bad taste. No matter what you have on, wear it gallantly. Never, by your manner, suggest that you are ashamed of your clothes. As long as they are neat and clean, suitable and becoming, there is no reason why you should apologize for them.
A few good clothes are better than a number of shoddy ones. In securing her job the business girl must remember many things. A well rested person always makes a better impression than a tired one. A humble office job can, and often does, lead to positions in the field of office work itself that are interesting enough and well enough paid to make them desirable objectives. Office work in all its phases is exacting, nerve-racking, exhausting, and a great drain upon the nervous and physical resources. It involves long hours yet it has fascination. A grind it unquestionably is. But it is a lively grind.