The Book God Gave
By Eva Willes Wangsgaard
ELEANOR sat on the front porch and leaned on a cushion propped against a post. The lights in the church across the street had just been turned on and their glow through the stained glass of the windows held Eleanor's eyes. "The panes are like my thoughts," she told herself. "Some are bright, some are cloudy." She looked down at the church door. Soon the members would come filing in. She began to visualize her friends as she had so often seen them entering that door. How she longed to be among them and feel their kindly greetings, to follow them in and partake of the spirit which they were about to enjoy! She knew the joy that can come of renewing the covenants in the fraternal presence of old friends. Still Eleanor sat alone on the porch and made no move toward obtaining her desires.
HER thoughts were interrupted by the swishing sound of a magazine hurled angrily across the living room to strike abruptly against the table. Then a chair fell with a thud to the floor. Heavy footsteps entered the kitchen beyond, and clumped across the linoleum. Suddenly, there was a crash of silver thrown into the sink followed by the faint tuning-fork sound. Eleanor wondered vaguely who had left a fork on the floor. The back door banged. Poor Harry, she thought. He never could understand her strange quietness on Sunday nights. He did not belong to the Church. In fact, he was bitterly opposed. He wanted her all for himself. He fought her interest in the Gospel with all the fervor of jealousy he would have expended on a rival for her love. He wanted her to be gay and smiling, to tramp with him through the hills this little while he was free from the grind of the shop. He could not see why she could not escape with him from the humdrum of life in a stirring show downtown. In everything else he came first, but on Sunday nights how could she forget the training of a lifetime and deny herself the joy of her church and its associations?
Eleanor heard the crunch of wheels on the gravel. She turned to see her husband as he backed the car from the garage. At the porch he stopped the car. "Let's take a ride," he said. Without a word Eleanor picked up the pillow on which she had been leaning and climbed into the car. She placed the pillow beneath her head and half reclined in the seat.
"Got a headache?" Harry asked.
"No," Eleanor tried desperately to command her thoughts. She wanted to say something cheerful, something that would make him understand that she saw his point. She wanted him to know that she appreciated what a fine man he was. She longed to tell him how glad she was that she had him. She knew his virtues and valued them. She loved him. How she loved him! In fact, there would have been no problem if she did not love him so.
But Eleanor was depressed. It's strange that an otherwise talkative person can be so dumb when a problem is so near her heart?strange that two people who love each other should have such a hard time saying the right thing at the right time. Eleanor's mind was a mass of unsolved problems. How could she talk to Harry about anything they passed or saw when her mind kept asking, "Is it right to stay away from church just because he disapproves? Ought I to go, or ought I to forget it entirely? My church is so much a part of me. Would he love me if I lost contact with it? Am I wrong to oppose him?" The ride was a failure as far as entertainment was concerned. Eleanor was relieved when he turned back toward home.
INSIDE she sought refuge from her thoughts by picking up a book, her favorite collection of poems. To Harry that was the last straw. His frustration burst out in a torrent of words.
"Are you woman or saint?" he stormed. "Do you want a man or your gospel?"
"But this is just a book of poems, Harry," she tried to mollify him.
"Poems. Poems. Nobody with any sense ever wastes time on poems, or religion either. I tell you I'm sick of it. You either go away and leave me sitting alone, or stay home and insult me by hiding behind a book."
"But you don't need to be alone, Harry. You might come with me."
"Come with you and be bored to death listening to some old fossil speak of a dead past or to some unprepared kid spouting borrowed phrases? No, thanks." He fell silent and waited. Eleanor tried to read, but his anger was a living presence between her and the printed page and her heart ached with unsolved problems. What to do! O, what to do! He mistook her silence for absorption and felt hurt and lonely. He got up and began to pace the floor. Eleanor turned a page, and for some reason that infuriated him. He turned suddenly and with a quick stroke knocked the book to the floor. Without a backward glance he entered the bedroom and slammed the door.
ELEANOR sat stunned for a moment. Once, long ago, she might have cried at this. Now she sat still and sought desperately for a way out of the abyss for both of them. Her problems began to resolve themselves into a prayer. "What shall I do, God? Show me the way." She leaned forward and looked at the book. Suddenly like a streak of sunlight creeping over a canyon floor, a beautiful thought pressed itself forward. The book lay with its leaves spread open to the floor, but like a protecting hand the cover shielded them from injury. If one were to destroy the real book, which was the message encased in its pages, it would be necessary first to destroy the cover. "My knowledge of the truth is like the book," was Eleanor's thought. "My faith is the cover. God gave me my book. So long as I keep its cover intact nothing can destroy the beauty of its pages. Nothing." She stooped and reverently picked up the book. She turned it over. She started in surprise. It was as though the book were speaking, so plainly could she read the poem before her eyes. It was Kipling's "If"?
"If you can keep your head when all about you Are losing theirs and blaming it on you,"
Eleanor read. Would keeping your head mean holding your peace while a person upbraided you and your church?
"If you can wait and not be tired by waiting"?
Was not ten years long enough of waiting? And if one waited ten years and still had faith was that what the poet meant?
"Or being lied about, not deal in lies"?
to hear your dearest treasure and its keepers belittled and, yes, lied about, she must still not retaliate nor feel hatred herself? Straight to her heart went the final message:
"If you can make one heap of all your winnings, And risk them on one turn of pitch and toss..."
Eleanor read this several times, searching for the inner meaning.
COULD it mean that she must take all her love, both for the home and the Gospel, and risk it against her husband's anger? Once more she read the lines while her mind fondled the phrases. Would her problem be solved once and forever if she resolved to go to church every Sunday evening, come what may?
"I'll do it," she said aloud. "Hereafter my Sunday evenings are for church."
A PEACE so gentle and reassuring was hers that she knew a problem of deep concern had been met and the solution found. She leaned back in the comfort of the large chair and closed her eyes. "Thank You," she breathed. "Thank You, God, for your great book and its protecting cover."