PRINCESS CANTACUZENE, President of Rumanian Council of Women, has been made Grand Officer of the Order of the Crown by the King of Belgium for services toward the "Liege Memorial." CORNELIA OTIS SKINNER established the one-woman theatre on Broadway in December to an enthusiastic audience when she presented her own dramatization of "Edna, His Wife" and played not only Edna but all eight parts. Her only assistant was an orchestra playing off stage. (GOETA LJUNGBERG, dramatic soprano of the Metropolitan Opera, has had a meteoric career. At 16 she entered the Academy of Singing in Stockholm. In two years she was singing the leading role in Tannhauser in the Royal Opera. Her fame spread from there to England, thence to Germany, and then America. MARY MAUGHAN HOWELL, of Utah, a gracious and queenly woman died this winter. A daughter of pioneers, her life was rich with exceptional experiences. HOLLY DALE, of Utah, is the author of an attractive novelette, "White Heather," story of a Scotch girl emigrant, charmingly told. DEAN MICKEL BECK, of Utah, has had a poem accepted for the Crown Anthology of Verse for 1938, and Elizabeth McGinley, of Ogden, has issued a volume of light verse. SARAH ANN KEDDINGTON, who died this winter, was a remarkable mother, with many gifts. At the Relief Society Conference in October she came with her eleven sons and daughters and sang two sacred songs. DEANNA DURBIN made the grade to stardom of the glamor ladies, as she emerged from the age of child prodigies. She reminds one somewhat of Elizabeth Bergener. AMY BROWN LYMAN, resident in London temporarily, shows her interest in "Happenings" by occasional items about women in foreign lands. Slogan Contest T the Oct., 1937, Conference, Relief Society marked out a goal?a goal that is more than a dream; a goal that we all enthusiastically but seriously expect to attain?? ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND ACTIVE RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS BY 1942 This important expansion program is being launched with the sincere hope that Relief Society shall better succeed in the fulfillment of its original responsibility?'"to elevate and enlarge the scope of women's activities and conditions; to foster love of religion, education, culture and refinement"?in all, to build the whole soul. Roger Babson has said, in effect, that science and industry have made such strides as to make the vital need of today a spiritual catching up to bring about a wholesome balance. He has said, "America will soon be swept by a great spiritual awakening. Nothing can stop it." Relief Society can be a real strength, a vital power, in effecting such a balance in the life of every woman actively influenced by Relief Society. To increase our membership, to strengthen individual members, means ultimately to enlarge and strengthen the whole spiritual structure. Looking back to March 17, 1842, the birth of the Relief Society organization, we see the Prophet Joseph Smith as an inspired architect who visualized a great and important structure. He firmly set the "Corner Stone." Faithful, intelligent women carried forward the work and laid a strong foundation. Through the years, with consistent labor, block after block of the "Superstructure" has been erected. OUR ambition now is to complete within this period of one hundred years (1842-1942) a living monument, worthy of the Prophet's original conception. We propose by the addition of approximately 26,000 choice stones (active members) to round into shape this great monument which we shall name "THE CENTENNIAL ARCH.' Its broad span shall encompass friendly service and cultural growth, and shall be capped with the "Keystone" of. Spiritual joy. Already expressions from many stakes, indicating a readiness for action, brings the response, "ALL RIGHT?LET'S GO!" The initial work must be done at once and by you. It is to be launched as a slogan contest. RULES OF THE "SLOGAN CONTEST".1. The Slogan must be appropriate to the theme?''Building the Centennial Arch." 2. Only one entry may be sent in from each person. One entry may be sent from an organization (Stake or Ward). 3. Entries must be in the hands of the General Committee by March 1, 1938. 4. Slogans should be catchy. A prize of ten dollars will be awarded to the winner. Shall we make the dream come true? Then?"'Be a Builder'! Short and Notes to FPROM many individual members, from Missions, Stakes and Ward organizations, beautiful and appropriate greetings came-to the Presidency and General Board of Relief Society. These expressive messages brought more than the compliments of the season?they were a tangible evidence of the fact that we hold a place in the hearts of our co-workers. They were an assurance of the love and encouragement we hold for each other in this great Relief Society organization. Will each sister individually please accept acknowledgment and hearty thanks for the kind wishes expressed! It is the feeling of kindred ideals, and the spirit of whole-hearted cooperation from far and wide, which make Relief Society the great power which it is for good. May our Heavenly Father unite and guide us throughout this year! Theology Department (Lesson 8) READ deeply and ponder the revealed word of the Lord, relative to His Second Coming, especially the 39th chapter of The Way to Perfection. This is a comprehensive and inclusive statement on the subject. The book was used as a text for 1937 class work in ward Genealogical Societies, hence is available in every ward of the Church. Those who whole-heartedly accept the revealed plan, as given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, and who have faith in the scriptures, and who observe the standards of the Church in their own lives, are looking forward confidently and unwaveringly to the Second Coming of our Lord and Savior. While they so live they will never be deceived by false teachers who come amongst them, nor by the false doctrines that they teach. The Field Work and Business Department I is possible to save from one-third to one-half, and even more at times, on the cost of boys' blouses and shirts, girls' dresses, house dresses and aprons, if they are made at home. The initial saving is not the only desirable feature of homeconstructed over factory-made wearing apparel. What a little while it takes to collect a paper carton or storage drawer of neat rolls of leftovers, large pieces and scraps, from the garments one has made! Rents and holes frequently appear in children's clothes often when they are quite new. A scrap of material out of which the garment is made will provide a patch, which, if properly applied, will make the garment almost as good as new, and it may wear as long again. This is not always so with the ready-to-wear. Often the best one can do is to use a seam to sew up a slit or catch the edges of the tear or hole together, which draws the article out of shape and produces a strained condition resulting in another hole very soon. When the blouse, dress or apron is worn out, and there is no more need for pieces for mending, what gay, colorful pieced blocks for quilts may be made from them. Or perchance, a little daughter's heart may be made glad with a variety of pieces of cloth from which to fashion those first doll dresses her little heart desires to sew! Social Service Department SPECIAL attention is called to the excellent circular published by the Improvement and Beautification NOTES TO Committee of the Church Security Program, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, January, 1938. The Relief Society has a very definite place in Church beautification, and every Ward President should THE FIELD 121 receive one of the programs, which from beginning to end, is full of interesting material, and is a source of enrichment for the lesson, "Spiritual Qualities in the Church Beautification Program." Magazine Drive WE are in receipt of letters expressing the disappointment of some of our wards in not being listed on the Honor Roll. In most instances this was because the reports reached our office too late for publication, or did not reach us at all. In a few cases, discrepancies in enrollment figures changed the percentage. From the leaflet, "Instructions to Magazine Agents,' under the section "Reports" we quote: "It is the obligation of the Stake Magazine Agent to send in a complete report of her stake and have it reach the general office by November 10, 1937." We most sincerely regret that some wards obtaining percentages entitling them to a place on the Honor Roll were not listed because reports were not received in time for publication. We regard the work of Magazine Agents as a valuable service to the Relief Society organization and are anxious to recognize this service in every possible way. No further reports, however, will be printed until the close of the 1938 drive. We extend to our faithful Magazine Agents sincere thanks and good wishes for continued success in the work they are doing. In publishing the reports of the following wards we have been advised that errors were made in the names of Agents: Ward Stake Magazine Agent Baker Union Mrs. Leo Shurtliff Duchesne Duchesne Minnie Wheeler Pocatello 5th Pocatello Jean Henderson AN error was made in publishing the report of the Oakley Second Ward, Cassia Stake, as one of the ten wards obtaining the highest percentage of subscriptions. The error was due to no report being received in this office on the combining of the Oakley Fourth and Second Wards. The percentage was figured on the basis of the enrollment of the Oakley Second Ward only. "THE percentage secured by the Elko Ward, Nevada Stake, entitles this ward to a place among the ten wards obtaining the highest percentage on the Honor Roll. Sister Claris Cameron, the Magazine Agent, will receive the award of a bound volume. This ward secured a percentage of 200. 1937 INDEX "THE 1937 index is now ready. Those desiring their magazines bound through this office may have cloth binding, including index, for $1.50 and leather binding, including index, for $2.00. The price of the index is, single copy, mailed 10c; 3 copies, mailed 25c; when bought at office the copies are 5c each.