COO Message From Lady Aberdeen FROM the December issue of Bulletin, the monthly publication of the International Council of Women, comes the following message from Lady Ishbel Aberdeen. Lady Aberdeen is a former President of the "Council" and now in her eighties. I HAVE heard of such a delightful story of a scheme which is being carried out to celebrate peace and good will between nations, that I must pass it on to you as a Christmas message which will come to cheer you in these dark days of wars and rumors of war which are disturbing the whole world. "More than one hundred years ago, the United States of America and Canada shook hands across their borders and agreed to be good friends. "Since that time there has ever been peace between the two countries. "Not a warship has sailed the great lakes which form part of that frontier. Not a fort has been built along the three thousand miles of border land. "The treaty between the two countries said that there were to be no warships on the great lakes, and that the land boundary was to have no fortress, nor soldiers, nor guns. "And then came the beautiful idea of forming an International Peace Garden to illustrate the good will of the peoples on both sides of the boundaries for each other. "The governments of the two countries took up the idea and gave grants towards the cost of forming the Peace Garden, and the provinces of North Dakota and Manitoba, situated on either side of the middle of the continent, agreed to each dedicate some land for the lovely purpose, and set apart some 2,200 acres in the Turtle Mountains. "When the Garden is finished, it 'will be a great Park. Roads and paths are being constructed. Two lakes, one on each side of the border, have been created. Central buildings and a great amphitheatre which will seat several thousands of persons are being erected, and now the whole district is known as 'The Garden of the Good Neighbour.'... "At first only the two countries concerned engaged in the work of creating this Garden, but other countries heard of the scheme, and are now beginning to send gifts toit.... "There is a Cairn in the Garden formed of glacial boulders which bears this inscription: "*To God in His Glory we two nations dedicate this Garden and pledge ourselves that as long as men shall live we will not take up arms against each other.' "T trust that before many years are past you, dear friends of many lands, may be called upon to send gifts to many such Peace Gardens on frontiers now guarded by fortresses. "Let us each and all do. All in our power to hasten the realization of this great ideal for the World's Peace and Happiness, for which our beloved Council has been working for sO many years." ig was the privilege of President Louise Y. Robison to attend the ' conference of the International Council of Women held in Paris in 1934, and to work on the Equal Moral Standards Committee. At that time President Robison enjoyed intimate contact with Lady Aberdeen and endorses, most sincerely, her plea and that of the Council, for women to do all in their power to hasten the realization of the great ideal of World Peace.