Activities
1. Find examples in your community of how beautification of public buildings or recreation centers has changed for the better the spirit and attitude of those who frequent the area.
2. Occasionally one sees a ward amusement hall where the furnishings and walls are marred and defaced, and the surroundings are unkempt. Discuss the influence of such conditions upon the general discipline of the ward.
3. Discuss the advantage to each ward of an artistically decorated and well-furnished room for Relief Society meetings.
Child Guidance
Lesson 8
MENTAL HYGIENE OF CHILDHOOD
FOR many years, one of the greatest concerns of parents and doctors has been the physical health of the child, and great strides have been made in reducing infant and childhood mortality. But what about the mental health of our children? We have seldom thought much about that, yet the problem of mental illness in recent years has come to be as great as that of all the physical ills put together. According to recent census reports for United States, hospitals for the mentally ill have 500,000 beds compared with only 525,000 for all other hospitals combined. One reason for the large number of mental hospital beds is that mental cases usually remain much longer than ordinary hospital cases. The number of hospital beds does not tell the real story about the seriousness of mental illness. The world is strewn with character failures, cranks, and all manner of unstable and neurotic individuals who may never become ill enough to need to be placed in an institution. According to a study made in New York State, one person out of every twenty-two in the general population becomes a patient in a mental hospital at some time in his life. In a certain number of cases, bodily disease, accidental injuries, or poisonous conditions are the cause; but in the majority of cases, the individual's personality fails in one respect or another without any clear-cut physical cause. Many of these failures are probably the natural result of defective training in the art of living, training which begins in the cradle. A set of personality tendencies may serve the child well while he has no responsibilities and while he lives in the home that nurtured him. Often when the stress and strain of adolescence comes, however, the childish methods which served well in the home fail in the crisis of finding one's way in an adult world. Little wonder that adolescence is a harvesting period for all the bad training of childhood, and hence a period during which nervous breakdowns are common, and milder failures are innumerable.
To preserve the mental health of the child is the parent's greatest responsibility. For what profit has the child if he is healthy in body, but sick in spirit? Mothers may be concerned as to how to tell when the child is mentally well. Mental illness has a beginning in small ailments of the mind. Perhaps the simplest guide to the mental health of the child is found in this question: Is the child happily engaged most of the time in activities that are socially acceptable? If he plays vigorously at games that are not disapproved by his community and which are enjoyed by most other children of his age, if he is happy in his home, if at school he finds worth while tasks that are enjoyable?then he is on the road to mental health.
Mental health is such a complicated condition that the simple key given above may not give the true picture. Morgan says that "When any child is habitually markedly different in any respect from the rest of his group, he needs further study." Balance of one's personality characteristics is the basis of mental health; abiding happiness is usually the evidence of mental health. Mental health means efficiency in living so as to satisfy in the least conflicting manner all of one's legitimate wants or needs. Disregard for the rights of others, for example, brings loss of good-will and help when it is needed, and therefore it does not satisfy efficiently all of one's needs.
Some conditions that favor mental health will be discussed briefly. This list of conditions does not pretend to cover the entire field, but only those conditions that are considered most essential and which have been touched upon in this course of lessons.
First of all, mental health calls for bodily health. The value we put on life varies almost directly with the "zest for living" we feel in our bodies. A happy spirit increases body tone and physical health. Conspicuous physical deformities, as previously shown, cause distressing conflicts for which successful compensations are not always achieved.
Second, ability to withstand pain and disappointment without expecting everyone we meet to join in the grief is a great help in a world in which pleasure and pain, joy and sorrow, success and failure are inevitably mixed almost every day of our lives. Children who are inadequate in physical ability or in leadership qualities often fall prey to the desire to be coddled, to enjoy ill-health, and perhaps to think that the satisfying of their own needs is the all-important business of those with whom they have intimate association. This weakness is frequently encountered in adults: the mother who gets sick to arouse the sympathy and interest of a father who is negligent, or the father who complains of his little pains and troubles to gain a sympathy and tolerance he cannot find in a hostile business world.
Third, the child must have a sense of being wanted in the home. Adopted children and children in broken homes often have poor mental health and are consequently more often delinquent than average children?partly because they feel insecure in their homes and in the affections of their parents. This type of lingering distress produces more nervous fatigue than does a good day's work. Little wonder the unwanted child is often nervous!
Fourth, mental health is hardly possible to the child who is a victim of besetting fears and dreads. "Bogey men" are real to children, however silly they seem to adults. Willful frightening of children is as vicious as feeding them impure food. Fears and dreads rob sleep of its restoring power and set up certain internal secretions which interfere with digestion; and, worst of all, they leave the mind beside itself and in as distressed a condition as a stomach afflicted with indigestion. Have you ever seen a child who is afraid to appear really happy? Some of our over-zealous preaching brings in all sorts of threats of impending evils and dire results of misconduct. A sense of sin sometimes results and brings that horrible dread of punishment for this life or the hereafter. For a child who hardly knows right from wrong, this type of teaching is definitely detrimental to his mental health. Better teach positively, as the Master did, that "he that endureth to the end shall be saved," that the pure in heart shall be blessed by seeing God, and that if we wish others to do good to us we should do so to them.
Fifth, the child who has the habit of taking greater interest in people and activities than in himself and the products of his imagination is usually happy. He is the one who develops a good personality because he practices more in getting along with the world of people and things. The unsocial child is usually unhappy and is more likely to develop mental illness than the active and sociable one, even though the latter may be more mischievous. Since personality grows out of the child's effort to get along with people, his living in a world of his own thoughts and troubles does not contribute much to his personality growth. Real interest in other people means a liking for them and freedom from hate, jealousy, and lingering grudges. A child cannot be happy when nursing these unpleasant emotions.
Sixth, the happy child's greatest interest is in today, then tomorrow, with only a passing interest in yesterday. Looking back, as a habit, is to be discouraged. "Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof." The over-conscientious child is likely to regret his mistakes longer than he should. The adult with a future closing in ahead of him, looks back to borrow a moment of joy from yesterday. But if looking back takes the place of the joy of today and the anticipation of the future, it is dangerous to one's mental health. When a child runs up against difficult conditions which call for a revising of his habits on a more mature or grown-up level, he sometimes runs back (or regresses) into childhood and tries to use a more childish device for gaining his ends. Adults sometimes have the same fault. The healthy minded child seeks new challenges each day and drives ahead toward becoming more manly, more grown up. He shuns all appearances of childish ways.
Seventh, every child to keep happy must have tasks at his mental level. This means that he must be given work or play that is difficult enough to challenge the best in him, but easy enough that he can "see through" to the goal. This point was treated more thoroughly in a previous lesson.
Finally, a father and mother who are mentally well, understanding, loving (but not over-indulgent) are the most essential guarantee of the mental health of the child. Bad attitudes in the home are contagious. A home atmosphere of consideration for others, free from nagging, hostility, and thoughtless preaching is the greatest mental hygiene asset a child can have. Severe hostility among the children contributes greatly to their unhappiness and is an indication of poor training in the home.
In the schools, these same conditions are essential, but too often not found. Teachers with disagreeable dispositions and other striking personality difficulties should not be permitted to retard the learning processes of the child by making the whole classroom situation unpleasant. Congenial companionship with other children at school is also important to the mental health of the child. The school bully and the chronic delinquent child are often stumbling blocks to the children who may have come from the best of homes, and these bad influences can seldom be disposed of directly. The parent often has to resort to helping the child to fight his own battles and find his own way, because life is notoriously cluttered up with a certain amount of these unpleasant and unwholesome influences; and the child should be taught how to stand on his own feet in the presence of them.
Problems for Discussion
1. What does mental hygiene mean to you in your home? Contrast it with physical hygiene.
2. What does poor home training have to do with filling our institutions for the mentally ill and social failures? (Mental hospitals, penitentiaries, industrial schools.)
3. What is the effect on a child's mental health when he withdraws from play and spends an undue amount of time with his thoughts and troubles?
4. What do you consider the three most essential conditions for mental health in children? What can you do to provide them for your children?
5. Name a few signs of mental health in children and show the significance of each.

"