[Vol53 | February 1966 | Page 118 | The Home | "Scrap Happy" Loray | C. Randall]
["Scrap Happy" Loray C. Randall]

17 Loray C. Randall wes © 1 »™' i he ot -.: * _.. - - *:: 7 1 @ 'Lisa, I do believe you're preparing yourself for a brilliant career as a rag picker!" How many times we had jokingly made this statement to our five-year-old in the last year I couldn't say, but it was getting to be a common expression. Also becoming all too common was my exasperation at finding bits and scraps of material tucked in such places as purses, the toy box, the magazine rack, and the underclothes drawer. Lisa was so fascinated with swatches of fabric and so determined, that I couldn't discard even the tiniest bit. I began doing the cutting for my own sewing projects when she was at Primary, visiting a friend, or other times when I knew she would be away from the house long enough for me to complete the job and throw away the scraps. Then I had an inspiration—a scrapbook. My first effort was a fabric book about four by five inches, with a denim cover which contained twelve different fabric swatches. These were stitched six on each half of the denim cover with a strip of wide bias tape stitched down the middle which nicely solved the problem of raw edges in the center of the book. When possible, I used a selvage edge at the outside edge of the page with the top and bottom page edges pinked or cut as the raveling probability of the individual fabric dictated. This book had a wide sampling of fabric types, including a bouclé wool, terry cloth, net, both pinwale and wide wale corduroy, organdy, and other fabrics selected for their combination of interesting textures and color appeal. The cover was marked Lisa's Scrapbook. This is a very quiet toy and one which can be easily tucked into a handbag for silent amusement when a little girl might otherwise get the wiggles in meetings or waiting for appointments. It would also be of interest to a child restricted to quiet play because of illness. Although my original purpose in making the scrapbook was to eliminate the bits and pieces of fabric that collected among Lisa's things, and to entertain her with the textures and colors of the fabrics, I found that the book has become an educational toy. It has piqued her curiosity as to the names of the various fabrics and what makes them different from each other. Why do the bouclé wool and terry cloth have loops? Why can I see through the organdy? Why does the corduroy feel rough when I rub it one way and smooth when I rub it the other? Obviously, the toy is also educational for mother who doesn't always have the answers immediately available. I feel the idea of the scrapbook could be adapted for children of various ages. Toddlers learning colors could have a book of plain swatches in bright colors. An extra challenge might be offered by including a single plaid or tweed, offering the opportunity of seeing how many different colors could be found in the single swatch. A picture book could be made for baby. Can you imagine a polkadot fruit tree with a rough brown corduroy trunk set against a blue broadcloth sky in which drifted a white terry-cloth cloud? A few minutes with the zigzag stitch, and these things would be put quickly and permanently in place and, 118 if fabrics used were selected carefully, the book would be completely washable, even by machine.