VOL. 39 NO.5 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Chris 

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spatford Marianne C. Sharp Velma N. Simonsen Margaret C. Pickering Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Mary G. Judd Blanche B. Stoddard Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Josie B. Bay Florence J. Madsen Mary J. Wilson Alta J. Vance RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Lillie C. Adams Louise W. Madsen Aleine M. Young Editor Associate Editor - General Manager t of Latter-day Saints President First Counselor Second Counselor - Secretary-Treasurer Christine H. Robinson Alberta H. Christensen Nellie W. Neal Mildred B. Eyring Helen W. Anderson Marianne C. Sharp Vesta P. Crawford Belle S. Spafford 

Vol. 39 MAY 1952 No. 5ContentsSPECIAL FEATURESThe Spirit of a Mother's Day by Mildred B. Eyring 283
I Am Partial to Maytime by Grace M. Candland 295
Things My Mother Taught Me by Sylvia Probst Young 285
A Tribute to Miss Tracy by Edna Rae Madsen 290
It Happened One Day by Thelma Hatch 303
Every Night at Our House by Matia McClelland Burk 301FICTIONUncertain Possession — Chapter 5 by Beatrice R. Parsons 307
Dear Conquest — Part III by Deone R. Sutherland 313GENERAL FEATURESSixty Years Ago 296
Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 297
Editorial by Marianne C. Sharp 298
Magazine Subscriptions for 1951 300
Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities by General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 352
From Near and Far 360FEATURES FOR THE HOMELily Pool — Rock Garden Combination by Willard Luce 288
Sharing Sunshine by Helen A. Nielsen 304
A "Needle and Thread" Hobby by Lila B. Smith 305POETRYRecipe for American Chop Suey by Alice Morrey Bailey 282
Overtones — Frontispiece by Mary Gustafson 284
Forever by Vesta N. Lukei 287
Not Happiness Alone by Marian Schroder Crothers 295
Revelation by Iris W. Schow 299
Our Young Mother by Wanda E. Rhodes 299
Morning by Doris Riter 300
A Portrait by Grace Sayre 302
Some Spring by Harriett L. George 306
A Certain Pledge by Maryhale Woolsey 356
Re-Entrance of Spring by Mabel Law Atkinson 358
Kindness by Lael W. Hill 358
Invited Compensation by Beulah Huish Sadleir 359
Desert Spring by Jessie M. Robinson 359
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: scriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: payable in advance. Single copy, back numbers can be supplied. Re of address at once, giving old and new address. 15ec. The Magazine is not sent after 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Sub- $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year: subscription expires. No new promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Overtones Alice Morrey Bailey Mother is a word with overtones. Within its syllables the senses leap To every worthiness the memory owns—_ A cool hand on the brow of fevered sleep, The smell of new-made bread and berry pies, A smile of pride rewarding battles won, The sight of home that falls on homesick eyes, A soothing lullaby when day is done. Its cadences retain a tender face And mellowed wisdom where the heart may grow, Yet leap the boundaries of time and space, Projecting every love that mortals know— This word which sends its singing down the years And magnifies its pattern on the spheres. The Cover: Diamond Lake and Mount Thielsen in the Oregon Cascades Photograph by Josef Muench, Cover Design by Evan Jensen Frontispiece Photograph, "Prune Blossoms," by Don Knight The Spirit of a Mother's Day Mildred B. Eyring Member, General Board of Relief Society EAREST JIM: | Your very fine letter and beautiful card arrived today. Thank you so much for both. Your letters are always appreciated by all of us, and this special one to me is, of course, very precious. I shall put it in my treasure chest. I confess that the occasion which prompted your message has always failed to arouse my own enthusiasm. My affection for my own parents and for my children, and theirs for me, has always been so spontaneous and deep that I have never welcomed the organized reminder of the relationship. (I know that I am very fortunate in having a devoted family, but I cannot believe that mothers whose children are habitually neglectful, greatly enjoy the artificially inspired remembrances those children may send once a year. ) I am sure that Miss Anna Jarvis had the very best of intentions when she started the idea of Mother's Day more than forty years ago, but I doubt that she foresaw how it would develop. In fact, I think I have read of her great disappointment in her later years at the way her idea had been modified and commercialized. Also, I suspect that she would have felt differently had she been a mother herself. She seems not to have realized that motherhood is its own reward, or punishment, depending on the sort of mother a woman is. Actually, the real debt owed by a child to his parents for life itself, must be paid to the next generation. When you begin bringing your children to visit us your debt will be paid in full. You've already overpaid us in happiness and pride for everything we've done for you. Mothers are just people, you know. 'There are all kinds, strong and weak, good and bad, willing and reluctant. 'The biological accomplishment of motherhood does not insure affection for the child. Yet, it seems to me, filial love is almost universal in children. In the almost-forgotten days when instinct was the accepted theory of psychologists, the affection of children for parents was more easily explained than it is now. But perhaps the recent rediscovery of the importance of affection in the lives of infants indicates that there might possibly have been a basts for the instinct theory after all. At any rate it is recognized that often a neglected child has a strong emotional attachment for his derelict parents. There are, of course, many derelict children in whom seemingly fine parents have somehow failed to instill respect and devotion. I can think of one universal good that could come from an appointed Mother's Day such as we celebrate. If the emphasis were placed on the privileges, opportunities, and obligations of motherhood; and if on that day mothers tried to measure themselves objectively, counted their triumphs and mistakes, and then rededicated themselves to their trePage 283 284 'mendous task, much good could come of it. I know I could profit by such examination and resolution. | am aware of numerous shortcomings in 'me asa mother. The fact that you love me, as I know you do, is a blessing which I feel I do not fully deserve. I am Creator for making us as we are. Repentance and forgiveness are wonderful. Love is a miracle. Yes, I am sure an annual examination would be worthwhile for me. But, as a day of affectionate remembrance and real significance for both a mother and a child, I would prefer the birthday of the child. That is the day that belongs to both of them in a way that no other day can possibly belong. For a child to sense his indebtedness to his mother and to honor her on his birthday would enhance the meaning of the day for both of them, and would in no way detract from the attention the child customarily receives. Of course, I may be accused of scheming to have five celebrations instead of one. In reality it would make one less, because all the birthdays are celebrated anyway. It would mean only that each child's remembrance of me would be a very special one, unrelated and uncompared to that of any other. And another advantage not to be ignored, would be the impossibility of grandgrateful to a kind RELIEF SOCIETY 

MAY 1952 scale commercialism. Any advertising that was done would surely be much diluted by the very necessity of daily repetition. Still another very real advantage would be that the unfortunate women who are denied motherhood, and _ those, even more unfortunate, whose children fail to remember them, would not be made more unhappy by the unavoidable reminder of their misfortune as they are at present on Mother's Day. Forgive me for writing such a dissertation on the subject. Your letter prompted the idea. I have just let my thoughts ramble and they've come out this way. What do you think of them? Shall I start something? Don't worry! You know I am not the campaigning type. But someday, perhaps, someone with more of a flair for that sort of thing will do something about making the observance of motherhood more in the spirit of motherhood., It is good to know you are well and that your work is moving along so satisfactorily. I am sure the Lord will bless you for your devotion to it. I pray that he will bless you also for your devotion to me. I am very sincere when I close with the familiar phrase, Worlds of love— MOTHER _——_ For ever Mary Gustafson Miles may separate us, Years may dull the face, But the heart remembers And spans both time and space. A Tribute to Miss Tracy Sylvia Probst Young PRING had come to Indian Bend, and on that Sabbath morning in May the world was at its loveliest. Our apple trees were gowned in white blossoms, and in the willows by the creek the blackbirds were holding their morning concert while we held Sunday School. I was playing the prelude music, and from my place at the organ I could look down at the congregation. 'The chapel was full, there was scarcely a vacant seat because it was a special morning—it was Mother's Day. The mothers were seated on the first three rows of benches, and the sunlight' coming through the stained glass window seemed to cast a sort of radiance around them that was almost heavenly. I looked at their faces—all familiar. One or two new mothers were occupying that place of honor for the first time. As I looked at them I thought of Miss Tracy. Surely she should have been among the mothers, for there is not an individual in Indian Bend who hasn't been mothered in one way or 'another by her. Miss Tracy had come in a few minutes before and slipped quietly into a seat near the door. I could see her gentle, smiling face framed by the soft gray hair. And propped against the bench was the crutch that she always used. Miss Tracy is our school teacher. For over thirty years she has taght the first three grades in Indian Bend, and she seems as much a part of the school as the old ivy that climbs against it. How familiar is that figure, a crutch under her left arm, limping slightly as she goes. Miss Tracy has used that crutch almost all of her life. Folks say she had some kind of disease when she was a child and it left her left leg shorter. If her lameness is any sort of handicap to her, though, no one knows it. She seems to be able to do almost anything anyone else can, and she always wears a smile. My mother was in the first grade when Miss 'Tracy started to teach school back in 1918. Miss Tracy was just eighteen then, and she was engaged to be married. On the mantle in her living room is a picture of a young man in uniform— George Hayward from Clarksville. She told me about him once when I was spending an evening with her. C "That was a long time ago," she said, and her eyes grew wistful. "George was a handsome fellow and a good one, he could have married any girl in the country. So wasn't I a lucky girl to be loved by him?" (That might have been true. But on the mantle is another picture of a girl—a lovely girl with sparkling eyes and a smiling face, a gitl who radiated joy. So I would think that George Hayward was lucky to be engaged to her.) "We had so many wonderful plans—just like young people do now—but there was a war and George had to go. I remember as if it were yesterday how we went down to Clarksville in Dad's whitePage 285 286 top buggy to bid the boys goodbye. It was hard saying goodbye. I stood on the station platform with his arms around me. 'T'll be back, honey,' he whispered, 'Tl be back before we know it.' "But when the boys came back he didn't come with them. He was killed at Chateau-Thierry. I think that they buried part of my heart beside him. But I tried very hard to keep my grief inside, and I found the best way to do that was to keep _ busy. Work was good medicine. I decided then that if I couldn't have any children of my own maybe I could help mother other peoples'. And so I've kept teaching school and trying to help those who need me. "And one of these days," she laughed and her eyes danced, "I'm just likely to up and steal somebody's youngster when they' re not looking." That was like Miss Tracy to end her story with a joke. She said that she had kept busy—how true that was. She has had time to sit up nights with the sick, to bake a pie for a tired mother, to read to some "shut-in," to sew for a needy family. She is never too tired to hear someone's troubles or to _ give sympathy and encouragement. I once asked her if she didn't get lonesome in her big house all alone since her father died. She smiled. "I never really feel like I'm alone," she said. ""There's usually someone dropping in. Then I have my piano, and I like to get out the music that we used to 'sing and play it over." Yes, Miss 'Tracy should have been a mother. How different her life RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 might have been if George Hayward had returned. But that just wasn't to be. * ek K OUR Mother's Day program was beautiful.. Mrs. Chandler sang "Mother Machree" as only she can sing it, and Mr. Shelley's tribute to our mothers was almost a masterpiece. The concluding part of the - program was passing the carnations. We always give carnations to our mothers in Indian Bend. For some reason or other we have never changed that custom. "The girls in Mrs. Hamilton's class will now present carnations to our mothers," Brother Boyle announced. Mrs. Hamilton teaches the eightyear-olds. 'There were six little girls there to pass the flowers—and one of them was Peggy: Gillis. My heart ached when I saw her, for Peggy's mother is dead. Mrs. Gillis died two years ago, and since then her children (there are five of them) have had quite a struggle. Mr. Gillis' work keeps him out of town except for the week ends, and fourteen-year-old Jean has tried to take her mother's place, and that is a big order. Miss Tracy has been little less than their guardian angel. Of course she never tells how she helps them can fruit, and sews for them, or the many evenings she spends at their home. But they tell it, and no one is surprised. I looked at Peggy. She didn't look like an orphan, she was wearing a new dress and a new pink ribbon in her hair. I had a feeling that Miss Tracy had made the dress, but I didn't know. I did wish that A TRIBUTE TO MISS TRACY she wasn't up there passing flowers, though, it made me want to cry. Of course Mrs. Hamilton couldn't tell her not to, and maybe her sister didn't want to tell her not to either. Mrs. Hamilton gave each little girl a bouquet of the fresh, spicy blooms, and they walked quietly among the mothers, giving one to each. When all of the mothers had received flowers the children walked back to their seats—all except Peggy Gillis. She stood a moment and looked around, then smiled and walked quickly down the aisle. At a bench beside the door she stopped, and, taking a big, red carnation from her bouquet, she thrust it into Miss Tracy's hand. Before Miss 'Tracy could stop her or say a word she had turned and was hurtying back to her place. You could have heard a pin drop in our little chapel. I thought I saw tears in Miss Tracy's eyes, but I was too far away to be sure. Brother Boyle rose then to make 287 the concluding remarks, and I am sure that he voiced what we had all been thinking. "Today we have honored our mothers," he said, "all of them. For surely we all know that there are mothers who have no children of their own, but are mothers nonetheless, for theirs are mother hearts." Those words seemed like a benediction, and I thought that never had words been more appropriate than were those words for Miss Tracy. Just how much that simple, "childish expression of love had meant to her I learned two weeks later when I had an occasion to visit her. On her big, old kitchen table in a little glass bud vase was a carnation—once red, but now withered and brown looking. And if you should look at her keepsakes some day, I have an idea you would find it among them, because for Miss 'Tracy that little carnation was the perfect tribute. _~ Not Happiness Alone Vesta N. Lukei Love is not happiness alone, Nor deep content, But life's complete full overtone And testament. — It is the reaching for a star, The restless yearning After dreams that shine afar With midnight burning. It is the shining filament, Quicksilver bright, That weaves a pattern, heaven-sent, _ Through day and night. It is the understanding heart That, knowing sorrows Of yesterday, with greater art Creates tomorrows. Love holds all joy the heart has known, And soul's lament; It is not happiness alone, Nor deep content. Lily Pool—Rock Garden Combination Willard Luce OMEHOW a lily pool and a rock garden just seem to belong together, like peaches and cream or bread and butter. A well-planned and well-planted rock garden makes a natural and beautiful backdrop for the pool and brings a bit of mountain loveliness into your garden. The sides of the pool should curve informally and naturally to fit into the space. And the dirt shoveled from the pool makes a natural elevation for your tock garden! There are a great many beautiful and highly colored stones which make wonderful museum pieces but are not especially suitable for rock gardens. 'heir bright colors fight for attention with the blossoms, and no plant can grow upon the rocks themselves. 'Then there is always the tendency to stand the rocks up so that the end result is more like a cemetery than the natural bank of a mountain pool. A far better stone is one which is soft and porous, such as are found near many mineral springs. These usually have soft, neutral colors. The cavities help hold the soil and furnish a growing place for rock garden plants. And don't limit yourself to what some seed catalogues classify as rock garden plants! Almost any plant which does not grow too tall can be used: spring bulbs, pansies, petunias, poppies, dwarf iris, violas, Page 288 to name just a few. Remember, however, your space is limited, and you must plan carefully so as to have a continuous succession of blossoms throughout the growing season. In the pool itself you will want water lilies of different colors. These will cover much of the pool with large, round, green leaves, and furnish a variety of blossoms from late spring until early fall. Water hyacinths are beautiful. In the South they grow so profusely as to clog the streams and canals. In the North, however, they die out during the winter unless taken up and cared for inside. In most cases their cost, plus this extra care,. Makes their value to a lily pool in the North somewhat doubtful. Certain native plants, such as cattails and arrowheads, are abundant in many states and can add much to the beauty of your pool. Cattails must be watched carefully, however, or they will crowd everything else out.. And care must be exercised in securing native plants to see that you don't also include a start of the many native mosses. Most of these are rapid growers which, if left alone, will soon crowd out and kill the other plants. Another beautiful plant, but also a crowder, is the water iris. However, after a few years you will probably find your pool too crowded regardless of what you plant. Then is the time for a good spring LILY POOL—ROCK GARDEN COMBINATION pool cleaning and plant balancing. Thin generously or you will be repeating the job before very long! F goldfish are to be kept in the pool, it would be wise to include some oxygenating plant such as Elodea, which will generate oxygen within the water of the pool, thus keeping it fresh. Also keep a piece of it in your aquarium with your fish during the winter months. It will keep the aquarium water fresh and provide you with a new start for your lily pool should that which you leave outside winterkill. Snails are also helped by the Elodea and in turn help keep the pool free from decayed animal and vegetable matter. 'They, too, can be kept in the aquarium during the winter. Frogs not only keep the pool free of mosquito larvae and various othpool-rock — garden — 289 er insects; but they also furnish summer evening choruses—if you happen to enjoy summer evening choruses furnished by frogs. Besides the beauty which a lily combination brings to your back yard, it will also prove an invaluable source of nature study for yourself and your children. You 'will be able to watch the bees flying from flower to flower, observe the hornets landing on the lily pads for a drink of water. You might even see the ugly nymph crawl up an arrowhead stem, split its own skin down the back and emerge a beautiful and shining dragonfly. You might see Oh, you might see any number of wonderful things from your lily pool and rock garden. If you don't already have such a combination, you might start planning for one in the future. It will be worth it! Willard Luce QUEEN OF THE POOL, THE WATER LILY (NYMPHAEA), RISES ABOVE ITS BROAD AND SHINING LEAVES It Happened One Day Edna Rae Madsen PRING in Arizona is cool and pleasant. Bright cardinals flash everywhere; yellow grosbeaks fill the shrubs and bushes; mockingbirds sing all night long. The children go to school with no coats on. They skip and sing, play jacks and marbles, and hopscotch, i before their northern cousins. However, I felt a bit lonely and dispirited in spite of the lovely weather; but that day something unexpected was to happen to change all my feelings. Frank, my husband, taught music at the junior college, which was just down two houses and across the street from our place. As a special event there, Mr. Paul Bliss, the well-known pianist, was scheduled to play a concert. He was expected to arrive about noon on the bus from E] Paso, and play at eight o'clock in the evening. The concert was well advertised, and all the students were anticipating the event with a degree of excitement, but, for me, it seemed to have a special significance from the first time I had heard of it. One of my piano teachers years ago had given me "Twilight Dance," a piece by Mr. Bliss. The piece had always been a delight to me, and the name of Paul Bliss was so closely associated with it that it was a very real part of my impression of it. In fact, whenever I played it, it lifted me out of a despondency I often felt over the fact that I. Was not a great piamist myself, instead of just a housewife and Page 290 mother. I had painted, too, majoring in art, and this also added to my discontent. The possibility of actually hearing Mr. Bliss in person, after all these years of playing this piece, had given me a new lease on life, as it were, and I could hardly wait for the concert. As Frank went over to school that morning at nine o'clock, he noticed a strange man, with graying hair, wearing a plain brown coat and gray trousers, walking about the campus. Some classes had begun, so the grounds were empty of students. The man was wandering aimlessly about, enjoying the warm sunshine. He was near the tennis courts when Frank went to him and spoke a cheerful good morning, instinctively realizing that this man was the renowned pianist. He had come, on the early bus! Shamefully embarrassed that their famous guest had been neglected, Frank hurried him over to our place. I had just finished the breakfast dishes and the bedmaking, for which I was definitely thankful. The three older children had gone to school, and little John was playing about, carrying the kitten backwards, as usual, under his arm. By a nod of his head, Frank made it known to me that Mr. Bliss had not had breakfast. Suddenly realizing who was actually in the house, I went into action. My emotions began getting the better of 'me, and my trembling hands kept nearly dropping things, IT HAPPENED ONE DAY but the smile just wouldn't leave my face. Mr. Bliss seemed highstrung, too! He kept coming into the kitchen nervously to see what I was. Doing. In the excitement, we kept bumping into each other. It was the most delightful confusion! I poured boiling water in the cup of postum, but, before I could pick it up, Mr. Bliss was right there and carried it into the dining room himself. Once we were seated and eating, things quieted down. Frank talked about the climate while I made fresh toast and postum. He ate a little with Mr. Bliss to ease the tension he knew I felt, but Frank looked a little nervous, too. When we were finished, Mr. Bliss jumped up from his place and began clearing the table. I tried at first to protest, but gave up and just let nature take its course! Fearing that I hadn't done too well with breakfast, and he might leave, and so put an end to such a remarkable adventure, I stood in the kitchen tensely, listening. To my great relief, Frank said, "You stay right here and practice on our piano—just make yourself right at home." R. Bliss graciously accepted. A silence followed—and then Mr. Bliss noticed the paintings on the walls. (They were the ones | had done in my student days.) Frank and Mr. Bliss went from one painting to another, making comments. I tiptoed along behind to listen. The picture hanging over little John's bed seemed to interest Mr. Bliss. He looked at it very intently. "Your wife has a lovely talent," he said. 291 I floated back into the kitchen and was almost consumed with pure joy. "Tl make a cake," I decided, and started sifting flour, to work off my feelings. It would be a delicate pink and white cake, with white fairy frosting. We would have a _ royal dinner! I proceeded to make plans for it. My painting was good! Mr. Bliss had liked it! Instinctively checking on little John first, I went to the front door. There he was, riding pickaback on Mr. Bliss' shoulders all around the front lawn. His arms tight about our visitor's neck, laughing joyously, he hung on as Mr. Bliss trotted and bounced about on his hands and knees. Frank had a big smile on his face. Mr. Bliss was smiling, too. What fun there was! I stood watching, and thought sadly, no son of his own! All of my selfishness about music and painting swept over me. I went remorsefully back to the kitchen and bowed my head in thankfulness for all of my children—and especially this last one, our beautiful baby. Frank brought little John in to me, and the two men walked together back to the college. They later went to lunch together with some of the faculty members at the cafeteria. About one-thirty they returned, bringing a large suitcase with them. The case had been made especially to hold Mr. Bliss' formal] suit to wear at the concert. Since I did not know this, I asked him, "May I press your suit for you?" He looked at me strangely and answered, "No." Thoughts of his appearing in a wrinkled suit flitted through my 292 mind intermittently during the remainder of the afternoon. I had straightened our front bedroom, smoothed the spread, drawn the blinds, closed the door, and made it as quiet, inviting, and restful as possible. There was a large Indian rug on the floor, and white curtains, with wide, soft ruffles, at the windows. Altogether, it would do, I felt, and Mr. Bliss could rest and perhaps sleep, if he wished. In this room we put his suitcase. He seemed quite at home, and I pre pared to enjoy the rest of the aay, after putting John to bed in the back room. While I finished the cake and prepared the dinner, Mr. Bliss set-. Tled himself at the piano. FTER a time I became aware of the music coming from the living room. At first there had been scales and arpeggios over and over. And the satisfaction of knowing that he was playing our piano had been quite enough. Now I realized I was hearing a melody which completely captivated me. It disappeared, returned, in a most teasing, haunting manner. Fascinated, I went near the piano. "What a lovely melody keeps running through that. This comment pleased 'Mr. Bliss greatly, and he explained, "It is the Warsaw Concerto. It was written by a very young man, they say, a soldier. It is his first composition. I am memorizing it, and it is rather difficult, because I am memorizing it from the orchestral score rather than from the piano score. Some of it I am having to compose or fill in, myself. It is a-beautiful composition." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 I stood watching him in silence for some time, thinking about the young soldier. 'Then, noticing how dark it was, I asked, "Do you want the light on?" "No," he answered, "I. Always practice with my eyes closed, and better in a dark room. Much of it I do at night with the lights off." I was silent again, enchanted with _ all of this. Finally, I returned to the kitchen, listening intently as the practicing continued, but occasionally was drawn back irresistibly to watch his long fingers race each other up and down the keys. Once, he began telling me about his mother, "who" (he explained), "taught me for many years while I was young. We played my lessons over every day together. She sat right by my side until we finished the lesson, an hour or so every day.' She was a wonderful person. A wonderful inspiration to me. Her devotion to me as a child and her teaching are the real reasons | have been able to accomplish what I have." He was very eloquent in praise of his mother, but extremely modest concerning himself. Obviously he had loved her dearly. The practicing continued, as over and over he played parts of the concerto—memorizing it. And the melody that threaded its way through it was dyed into my own mind until to this day I need but to hear it to relive my memorable experience with that great pianist. Fearful of missing a moment, I stayed close to the house. About three-thirty Mr. Bliss decided to walk over to the church to familiarize himself with the piano there. IT HAPPENED ONE DAY He had just settled himself to rehearsing his evening program when he was surprised by the arrival of a great many children and their teachers with books and lessons. In a _matter of minutes they had completely taken over the church and there was nothing for him to do but leave. From the front door I saw him making his way down the long front steps of the building, completely surrounded by a horde of noisy, disheveled youngsters. He escaped and returned to our house as fast as possible, disappointed, but glad to find a quiet refuge. "What was it over there?" he asked me, puzzled. I laughed a little. "It's Primary," I answered, feeling unable to explain. HE looked at me, still puzzled. I made a few remarks about children's religion classes, and let it go. Several times during the afternoon Mr. Bliss disappeared into the bedroom, softly closing the door behind him. He is lying down to rest for awhile, I thought to myself. He would come out each time looking very much refreshed, as if he had slept. This, and the concerto, continued all afternoon. Later, when he went over to the church again, leaving the door to his room open, I glanced in and noticed that the bed had not been touched. Puzzled, I looked about. The bed had not been slept on, I was positive. Yet Mr. Bliss had evidently slept. What had happened? What a strange person! And how had he refreshed himself? When Frank came home Mr. Bliss began chatting about music, their common interest, but soon Mr. 293 Bliss was telling him all about his wife whom he had recently married. "She is a lovely wife," he said dreamily. "She stopped in Albuquerque to rest while I came on here. If I had known how it was here I should have brought her with me." The children and I wrapped up a small box of pecan nuts from our tree and tied it with a ribbon. "Take these with you. They are for her," I offered. He accepted them eagerly. "She will like them very much." His eyes, as he thought of her, filled with a loving light. I kept worrying about his evening suit, still locked in the case. My husband was anxious, too. "Do you want to get ready for the concert before we eat or?" Frank asked. — Mr. Bliss just looked at us in that strange way again, and said, "No." | The table, with the green salad, salmon loaf, homemade bread and butter, and the delicate white cake, cut in squares on little plates, and ted raspberries from Utah in our tall sherbet glasses, made a very pleasant looking table. We sat down proudly, with the children all around beaming and smiling. We asked the blessing, and then we began our royal meal. But, to our surprise, Mr. Bliss declined the food we offered, but said apologetically, "If I could just have this good bread and milk, that is all." He insisted upon that simple fare but, to please me, he ate a generous piece of my cake and the ber- 294 ries. Seeing him there, the light on his face, surrounded by my beaming children, I felt that my own father was fed. Having finished, Mr. Bliss jumped up from the table and started cartying his plate into the kitchen, and he kept on until the whole table was cleared, try as I would to make him feel he didn't need to help at all. It was really exciting, though, having such a famous man carrying the dishes. It has given my - housework a glamorous touch forever after. T would soon be eight o'clock, time for the concert. Finally Mr. Bliss went into the bedroom, and in a very few minutes out he came in a perfectly pressed black suit, with tails—white, stiff shirt, and all! The church was filled to the brim, and there were flowers near the grand piano. At first Mr. Bliss was very quiet and formal, but the friendliness of the audience soon affected him, and he became more relaxed. The applause he received was genuine, and I know he felt it. C To describe the. Scene is impossible for me, but I will say that none of us had ever heard anything like it before. His music was marvelous. It was perfect! And what do you think, for one of the encores he played my "Twilight Dance"! I wonder if Frank had anything to do with that? I hoped not. I would want that to have just happened. As soon as it was over, we walked over to the dormitory where a reception was to be held. Everything was ready, the faculty women having RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 seen to that, and the table was a picture. The place was crowded, and there was much talking and visiting and gaiety. Afterwhile I noticed that Mr. Bliss was missing. But where could he be? No one seemed to know. He had just gone. F clutched Frank's arm and suggested anxiously that we had better find out what had happened. We slipped out and hurried home as soon as possible. No one was in sight. Horror-stricken, we looked about us. Frank opened the bedroom door. 'There he was, our guest, on the floor! Asleep! But at the opening of the door, he awakened, and we both stood staring at him. The question was in our faces. "It's the way I relax," he said. "T lie down perfectly flat and straight, and go to sleep immediate- ] nd "eso that's where you slept this afternoon!" I exclaimed. "Yes," he said, "I have to do it to endure the strenuous work of my career." T was nearly time for the bus, so we had to collect our thoughts, as well as Mr. Bliss' things. The suitcase, the music, and all, were soon ready. After such an exciting day and evening, I was very tired. It was nearly midnight. "Don't forget the nuts," I reminded him. Mr. Bliss looked at me with great compassion, "You are tired, aren't you?" he remarked. I smiled weakly but happily. "This has been a wonderful, wonderful day," I said sincerely. "A wonderful day." IT HAPPENED ONE DAY We said goodbye, and Frank walked ahead of him out to our old car, carrying the suitcase. Mr. Bliss' shouldets drooped noticeably. He looked old. If we could just keep him here with us—just us and the children in quiet, peaceful Arizona! They drove to meet the bus that would take Mr. Bliss to another city, another audience, another adventure. 295 We were left to go on as usual at home, but with something new added. Something that had lifted us up and up and up! Life would never seem dull to me again. Being a mother was wonderful, and marriage—real and beautiful—was what I wanted after all! How blessed I was with Frank and the children! And dear Mr. Bliss. God go with him and bless him all of his life! LF Am — Partial to Mlaytime Grace M. Candland "There is no time like spring When life's alive in everything." —Rossetti T is true. This is a morning of creation, with all its bewildering beauty. It is free to everyone who will take the time to see it and give an attentive ear to its music and quiet unfolding. Since the miracle of spring comes every year, we are likely to become but casual observers of the wonderful awakening all about us. The day begins with the soft glow of daybreak, fair as a garden pink. The stillness of this lovely hour makes one feel that he is standing in the light of two worlds, so thin seems the curtain between them. Then the sun brings one back to reality. One sees the landscape bursting with new life, a veritable garden of Eden rising from the frost and snowbound earth of last December. How can we describe the teeming growth emerging from the dewy bath of the night? The jeweled grass, millions of dripping green buds, flowers of every hue growing side by side; a clear stream meandering through the valley; the blackbirds' serenade from the willows on its bank; the meadow lark's song of praise to heaven. All have an exhilarating, touch that no other season can have. Then there is the odor of freshly turned furrows that enhances a feeling of security and joy in the good earth which feeds the body as well as the soul. We seem to forget the harsh, unpleasant things of life. Like the earth, we are renewed in our faith, our hope, our reverence for the Author of all this beauty, this fragrance and sweetness that comes to perfection in Maytime. I Revelation Marian Schroder Crothers The tiny, dormant seeds, That break through shrouding sod, To flower in perfection, Reveal the hand of God. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1892 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN OF ALL NatTIoNns" MANNERS OF WORKING WOMEN: Every day you may see on our streets a large number of women, who go quietly and briskly to their different vocations. The majority are stenographers and clerks, though there is a slight sprinkling of dress makers, telephone exchange girls, compositors, and girls who work in book binderies, and printing offices. They are not brusque, masculine creatures as you might expect; on the contrary they wear bangs and ruffles and laces just as other women do. Some are pretty and some are plain; some plump, some thin, and so far as appearances go, they are like the rest of womenkind —N. V. D. TO AN UNKNOWN: You are melancholy; and you are brooding over your own distemper; and so aggtavating it. Neither prayer or meditation will cure it. The difficulty is that you are self-centered. Every self-centered person must be either selfconceited or melancholy.... You are making everything revolve about yourself. There is only one question: are you useful? No? Then become useful Set yourself, not to being happy, but to doing other people good. Forget yourself; think of others.... It is of small consequence whether you are happy or not. It is of much consequence whether you are of service to the world. Love is the cure for melancholy.: —Exchange THE CAPSTONE "Tis a joyous day for Israel, Lo! The Capstone has been laid; Saints and prophets, sires and sages, For this day have longed and prayed; See the mighty hosts assembled, Hear the hills and valleys ring, With the shouts and loud hosannas Which they raise to God their king —R. M. F. WOMAN'S WORK IN MEXICO: The scenery from Diaz to Juarez, some seventy-five miles, is similar to that from Deming to Diaz, an open level country of vast extent with mountains and hills in the distance. We can trace the windings of the Casas Grande river by the lofty cottonwood trees growing on its banks.. We now reach Colonia Dublan, a settlement of our people, located on the banks of the river. The houses are of lumber and adobe. The farms slope from the road to the river. Colonia Juarez is situated in a canon on the Piedras Verde river, which is lined with trees and runs lengthwise through the town. It is a thrifty, pretty little place, like an oasis in the desert; a number of handsome brick and concrete houses adorn the town —M. NURSES AND ACCOUCHEURS: On Thursday evening, April 29, 1892, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp's class in Obstetrics and Nursing met at her residence, to enjoy a few hours socially after the winter's close application to study and their recent examinations which were passed successfully. A number of intimate friends met with them, our beloved Sister, Zina D. H. Young, joining in the congratulations and timely counsels to the ladies just starting out upon their important labors. ~—News Note Page 296 VISITING in Salt Lake City recently, Mrs. Lenora S. Slaughter, executive secretary of the Miss America Pageant, stated that Colleen Kay Hutchins, Utah's Miss America, has brought more praise to the Pageant than has ever been expressed before. People are impressed by her wholesomeness, her religious and_ educational — background, her refraining from drinking and smoking. Religious magazines have written her up as a Latter-day Saint girl. As a "goodwill ambassador" for the United States, she has been on a South American tour and will soon go to Europe. MBE:. DAVID (Andrea Mead) } LAWRENCE, of Rutland, Vermont, nineteen years old, won the women's giant slalom ski race in the 1952 Winter Olympics at Norejfell, Norway. She is the second American woman in history to win an Olympic gold medal in skiing competition. BLMA MILOTTE and her husband Alfred, naturalist photographers, are in Nairobi, Africa, for one or possibly two years, to record for Walt Disney's True-Life Adventure sagas the most savage animal life there. They do not resort to firearms or other lethal weapons, but lense their quarry from jungle ambush and waterhole blinds. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RS. CHRISTEN (Juliaetta Bateman) JENSEN, of Provo, died January 21. Mrs. Jensen will be remembered for her story of. Her Mormon pioneer mother's life, Little Gold Pieces and for teaching large groups of women in such literary subjects as world literature, Browning, and the Bible. Letter to My Son is an interestingly written book by Ora Pate Stewart, which will impress readers—young or old—with the high value of moral _ stability, especially a life of chastity. WOMEN'S Air Force Sergeant Dorthe Isenhour, a Latter-day Saint girl from Salt Lake City, is "right arm" assistant to Chaplain Raymond Mattheson at Samson Air Force Base, New York. She helps encourage the religious and moral welfare of servicemen and their dependents at the base. She aids many welfare projects, including operating audio-visual devices used in religious instruction. ME. ELIAS (ANNIE SWENSEN) JELTE, of Salt Lake City, a convert to the Church from Sweden, is now ninety-five years old and spends much time knitting, crocheting, and visiting her family, down to the seven great-great grandchildren. Page 297 CQ EDITORIAL = VOL. 39 MAY 1952 She Pursuit HE Declaration of Independence declares, "We hold these truths to be self evident: That all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." In every age of history man has sought for happiness. 'Today, in the throes of uncertainty and tribulation, the people of the world seem to have lost the knowledge of how happiness is attained, and pursue a mad whirl searching for it in wickedness. The word of God "wickedness never was happiness" goes unheeded. In spite of this longing for happiness, many people defile the marriage vows. Selfish interests and self-gratification rob innocent children of the sanctity of a righteous home. Some people seek happiness in a withdrawal from the world. Legion are the number who _pursue happiness through the pursuit of wealth, often selling their honor and. Debasing their souls for material possessions. Men grasp power by crushing the weak and, as tools of Satan, repudiate the very existence of their God, while ostensibly seeking happiness. To a Latter-day Saint it seems incredible that man can be so blind to happiness. The Prophet Joseph declared, "Happiness is the object and design of our existence; and Page 298 of Happiness, will be the end thereof, if we pursue the path that leads to it; and this path is virtue, uprightness, faithfulness, holiness, and keeping all the commandments of God. But we cannot keep all the commandments without first knowing them, and we cannot expect to know all, or more than we now know unless we comply with or keep those we have already received" (D. H. C. V, 134135). | Relief Society was given to the daughters of God to help them pursue and attain happiness. Women often become so burdened in their household and mother duties and cares that there is a tendency to lose contact with others and confine their good works to their own family circle. Relief Society enlarges the souls of the sisters and guides them in service to others. Through its studies and work it inculcates "virtue, uprightness, faithfulness, holiness" and teaches the commandments of God. Serving the less fortunate, comforting the sorrowing, visiting the distressed, kindle a love within the heart which warms and_ glows, radiating happiness throughout one's being. 'Through greater forgetfulness of self the spirit reaches out until, at times, there comes a flooding happiness which seems to foreshadow the blessedness of the eternity to come. More and more one meditates upon the selflessness of Christ. EDITORIAL How rare were the occasions when he could be alone! Day and night the multitudes followed him. So dedicated was he to the world that once when he was told, "thy mother and thy brethren stand without, desiring to speak with thee," he answered, '""Who is my mother? And who are my brethren? And he stretched forth his hand toward his disciples, and said, Behold my mother and my brethren! For who- + 299 soever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother" (Matt. 12:47-50). Relief Society trains the sisters of the Church for happiness. 'The pursuit of happiness ends in love of God and service to fellow men, and only by walking this path of light in righteousness will one reap happiness here and hereafter. —M. C. S. + & Our Young Mother Iris W. Schow Our young mother taught us to gladden our eyes With the bright cyclorama that moves through the skies; To circle the earth upon fiction's bold wings— Through the practical use of impractical things. To kindle tired minds with the sunset's warm glow, To gloat over jewels of crystalline snow, To harvest the manna the summer rain brings— Through the practical use of impractical things. To ward off the blows that the world made us bear, By the armor of honor she gave us to wear; To drink to our fill at the truth's hidden springs— Through the practical use of impractical things. Our mother was wise, though our mother was young; The shawl of affection she carelessly flung About us had more warmth than robes worn by kings— Through the practical use of impractical things. May Mlorning Wanda E. Rhodes The lilac's perfume fills the air, The iris is in bloom, But I must stay inside today And clean this cluttered room. A book lies open on the chair, I long to know its ending, But who can treat a novel fair While over dishes bending? My fingers yearn to scratch the soil, And pet the tulip buds; Oh, must I stay indoors and toil In tubs of foaming suds? Nay! A robin calls me out to play With saucy criticism. A plague to household tasks in May! I will escape this prison. Notes 0 THE FIELD Preview of Lessons to Be in the Yune Magazine The general board is pleased to announce that the previews of the lessons for 1952-53 will appear in the June issue of The Relief Society Magazine, rather than in the July issue. This will enable Relief Society class leaders to begin to plan their work for the ensuing year earlier than heretofore. Ke R & A Portratt Doris Riter He painted a picture of dimpled face, A childish figure in ribbons and lace, With bluest of eyes and soft flaxen hair And the picture's fair as the child is fair But, oh, there's one thing he could not impart The love for the child in the mother's heart. * + ' & Sharing Sunshine Helen A. Nielsen ON bright spring day, I met a quiet woman with her arms full of manzanita. Shy, almost to the point of timidity, she offered me a bouquet. At the time of the year when cultured blooms were not yet ready to decorate our home, it was indeed a welcome gift. Its sturdiness bespoke the rocky hillside from which it had come. Its delicate pink color told of brilliant-colored sands swirled around its roots by rivulets of rain water. While decorating the dining-room table, one had visions of rocks glistening with quartz, stones worn smooth by rushing flood waters from the hollow, and aromatic sage, cedar, and pine. Oh, there was more than a few sprigs of manzanita on our dining-room table! There were memories of springtime hikes, the joy of having to use every part. Of one's lungs to conquer the mountainside, and a picnic eaten with hunger, and spiced with sand, with never enough water to quench the thirst. And the remembered thrill of that one sip of water someone was kind enough to share. One remembered the blue sky and the warm sun upon a bare head. Yes, that simple bouquet told many tales, and reminded one of the goodness of God to all his children here upon the earth he created for them. I had one bouquet, but as I went from home to home, I found manzanita on the | mantles, on the tables, and on the dressing tables of the homes I visited. Upon inquiring, I found at least six others with whom my friend had shared her springtime walk. Can one estimate the joy of that one armful of manzanita gathered in the quiet of a sun-warmed spring day? § Page 300 Things My Mother Taught Me Matia McClelland Burk [' looking back over my life and considering the most worthwhile things in it, I feel everlasting gratitude to my mother. So many things that are fundamental to success and happiness came from her. My mother taught me how to pray. I cannot remember when I learned the Lord's prayer. Our nightly petitions besought God's loving care for those dear to us, and always wound up "and bless everybody in the world." Can a child utter such a prayer nightly and hate anyone? I have friends of many colors, races, and creeds. As the years go on, even in time of war, I can still make that petition sincerely for all of God's children. My mother taught me to love the scriptures. We lived on a ranch, and I was never in a church until after I was fourteen, but we kept the Sabbath. A friend sent us Sunday School lessons, and every Sunday we studied them. Long years have passed since those Sunday sessions, but I often remember, in time of need, some verse of scripture memorized, or some vivid Bible story my mother read in her earnest, dramatic voice. Whenever I hear the magnificent cadences of the nineteenth psalm, "The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth his handywork," I see a grove of nine cottonwoods providing a shady haven to four listening girls. Or when I hear the twenty-third psalm, "The Lord is my shepherd," I see the same group, cozily warm in winter, around a sheet-iron stove; always with the happy leader, slender, fair, auburn-haired and absorbed. Many were the passages of scripture that mother taught us from memory, for not only was her heart in God's word, but much of God's word was in her heart. My father, much older than my mother, had a fine voice and sang the old ballads beautifully, yet it was my mother who taught us to sing, usually to the accompaniment of a guitar which she played very well. I have often heard her say that she did not have a good voice, but, though not very strong, it was clear and true. We learned to sing, and all four of us have found joy in singing through the years. My mother taught me to love poetry, and must have early planted rhythm in my mind. In that desert country we did not know the grandeur of northern winters, but one of my early memories is of an imagined towering peak that I visualized when my mother quoted: "Mont Blanc is the monarch of mountains; They crowned him long ago On a throne of rocks, in a robe of clouds, With a diadem of snow." —'Manfred," by Lord Byron Many such stanzas came singing to my heart. With such a background, it is not surprising that three of us girls have carved a small niche for ourselves in the world of poetry. Later, when my father died and we moved into town, where my mother taught in the public schools, we learned a good many other things. Among these things were the courage to work; the need to hold up our heads and earn our way instead of expecting others to do for us; the habit of scrupulous honesty; the need to help others less fortunate than we; and the habit of saying something good about others or keeping still. Page 30] 302: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 It has been many years since I have spent much time with mother, but often my heart turns in gratitude to this little retired teacher, now bent and white-haired, but still peppery at times, full of ambition and as active as the doctor and her health will allow. She writes charming letters to us, her children, to her doting grandchildren, and to a legion of friends and former pupils. She makes keepsakes and doll clothes for her seven great-grandchildren, and loves to hear news of them. We often smile at the way things were done long ago. But in the days of doubt and turmoil, I often wonder if I have given my children as much to live by, as much to hold close in memory, as she, my mother, gave to me. YY FY Be Ga Some Spring Grace Sayre Some spring, when lilacs wave their purple plumes And sweet wisteria hangs her pendant blooms, Through starry night and mystic petal rain, I'll sense the fragrant spring along the lane. Where fields of clover scent the greening land; There Ill wave a longing, beckoning hand, Wishing again for this ecstatic dream, My heart's swift rapture where the spring stars gleam. A 'Needle and Thread Hobby Martua Jones, Provo, Utan, Has Mane Sixty Weppinc QvuILts 66 AR UNT" Martha Jones of Provo, Utah, who is sometimes affectionately called "Grandma Jones," has developed a hobby which keeps her happy and brings much joy to others. In her later years she has completed sixty wedding quilts, as well as many other quilts of different patterns. Shown with Mrs. Jones in the picture are a double wedding ring quilt and a silk quilt of double fan design. The silk quilt was made for a woman from South Africa who visited in Utah during the past summer. An active Relief Society worker, Sister Jones has served for twenty-two years as an officer and forty years as a visiting teacher. The mother vot seven children, She still found time for nursing and for community service. Now, at the age of eighty-four, she is grateful for the time which she can spend on her favorite hobby—quiltmaking. MARTHA JONES Every Night at Our House Thelma Hatch E_ have lots of good times at ° our house—turkey dinners, birthday parties, blizzards, and everything that makes life full. But there is one time that will always stand out above the rest in my memory. 'That is bedtime. Night begins to roll over the valley, and before we can finish our bread and milk, it drops a little darkness that hovers over our house on the hill. As Grandpa always said, it's a good thing our house was built on a hill. Just the six of us keep its foundations rocking continually. A family of six isn't so big, just Daddy, Mother, a big sister, Colleen, then in-between me, the brother LeRoy, then last, but not least, the pin-cushion of the family, Maybell. This really isn't a big family, but it's the other members that add up. Other members, like Maybell's pet chicken, pet lamb, pet dog, another pet dog, pet horse, pet frog, pet pig, and pets are so attachable. These members are not really unwelcome, but there is one little bit of humanity that is! It steps into the family tree just about when we're through with our bread and milk. It's the unpardonable, unforgiving clock. Mother must feel something in the air about this time, because, at the same time every night, her head turns in the same direction, to look at the same clock, on the same shelf, with the same meaning. "Bedtime!" We four offspring run for refuge, but the selfish little clock still says eight o'clock, just as haughty as any clock can say it, without saying a word. Again Mother gives the signal. "Bedtime!" It's very hard to hear from one room to the other. "Bedtime!" Oh-oh, this time Mother means it. She has the fly swatter. 'Then what follows is as regular as the sun rising and setting. LeRoy moans a ten-year-old moan, puts down his book, and worms himself into the kitchen. This time it's carrots, lettuce, raisins, bread crusts, and "Haven't we anything to eat, Mom?" Mother doesn't hear. She has her head behind the hall door searching frantically for Maybell's pajamas. "Now think, Maybell, think!" This is where I put down my algebra, almost too gladly, and head for the bathroom. Of course Colleen is already there, putting up her hair. Someday maybe I'll be a senior, too! A tumble is heard as LeRoy dumps his loot on his dresser, then he runs down the hall and calls, "Hurry up!" Colleen finally sails dreamily out of the bathroom and down the hall to our bedroom. She must have had a date last night. Mother comes storming into the bathroom. "Thelma, where are they? You always hang them up. Now think, Thelma, think!' Page 303 304. Now, where do I think I put Maybell's pajamas this morning? I haven't the faintest idea, but I try to sound hopeful. "Did you look behind the hall door?" Mother sighs. Nearly every night I look behind the hall door for Maybell's pajamas, and often little Maybell has to sleep in something else. Maybell slides down the hall to the middle bedroom. Off in the distance a terrific sound is accumulating. Maybell describes it as a geyser going off. But it's only Daddy tearing from the barn to the house. "Tl be late," he gasps, "late again!" as he heads into his bedroom and slams the door. UT in the hall I sit down and contemplate. Is this Wednesday again? Daddy is going to his stake presidency meeting, so it must be. I never remember a calendar hanging in our house. We have a system all our own, and it's very simple. ~When Daddy goes to a Sunday School meeting, it's Monday; when he goes to a Mutual meeting it's Tuesday; on Wednesday night he goes to a stake presidency meeting; Friday night is a dance directors meeting. Saturday night he goes to a ward conference; and when Daddy goes to church all day—it's Sunday. Really calendar. Outside a honk is heard. The stake president is honking for his first counselor. Swish! Daddy rushes through the bedroom door, grabbing a handful of clothing and takes the forty yard dash down the hall. Someday it will turn out to there is no need for a 'Then all the family RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 be his shirt and the bottoms of Maybell's pajamas that he grabs. He gets as far as the dining room, then drops his brief case as a signal. Come from everywhere and kneel down for family prayers. Although all is not peace and quiet afterwards, a spirit of love and thankfulness lingers with us. Mother thinks she will go see if _ Daddy looks the same as he did last night when he was running to a meeting. "It might not even be the same man," she sighs. She runs to one end of the hall just to see Daddy run out the other end. But we catch the scent of his face lotion, and Mother smiles, "It's the same." It used to be his hair oi that we smelled, but he doesn't need that anymore. Mother finally has Maybell and LeRoy tucked away in the middle bedroom. She doesn't expect them to go to sleep so early, but the attempt is made. She wearily goes to her back bedroom and lies down, hoping to sleep. It is now after nine o'clock, and all lights have to be out. I know what to expect when I go into our front bedroom. Colleen is in bed reading her missionary's letters. I sit on the floor and listen and listen and listen, just like I wanted to be converted. From the middle bedroom we hear a yelp from LeRoy, guardian of the food, and then Maybell, "Well, Mother, LeRoy won't give q?? Me any raisins! WHEN I climb in bed for what I hope will be the last time at night, and it is usually after ten EVERY NIGHT AT OUR HOUSE o'clock, I find Colleen reading army letters this time. We haven't quite decided if our new brother will be a missionary or a soldier. At last Collen turns off our light, only to call out, "Mother, somebody left the yard light on!" Mother calls down the hall and says since Colleen is the oldest she had better go turn it off. Then Colleen remembers that she forgot to write in her diary and begs, "Thelma, if you'll turn it off tonight, I'll just love you.", Of course, I don't want any hard feelings, so I go outside and turn out the light. Some night if I get electrocuted on that yard light, there will be a ghost wandering around. | Mother sweetly calls down the hall to see if we have our windows open, and Maybell decides she forgot to say her prayers. We are very quiet while every person, place, and thing in the world is blessed, 305 and then the little angel creeps back into bed. As the course of the night wears on, Mother wonders if the water hose is still on the pansies, but, since it is after nine, I can't turn on the lights. I take the journey to the pansy bed and swim the flood. Also I usually lock myself out of the house and have to detour to the back door. Mother groans about her teeth, and LeRoy has finished all but one carrot. Back in bed once more, time wears on, and finally Daddy comes C home. Mother thinks it was surely a good, long meeting. Maybell thinks we've had a nice time, too. The minute Daddy opens the door, Maybell starts to giggle. Daddy puts down his brief case and demands, "Great Scott! Aren't you kids asleep yet?" "Yes," we all answer in a chorus, "you just woke us up!" os Recipe for American Chop Suey Lila B. Smith I like to make chop suey in the morning when I am going out to Relief Society or Primary, and have it ready to pop in the oven the minute I get home. Licious aroma that comes from the oven while it is baking delights everyone. The deThis recipe also makes a very good luncheon dish for the Relief Society work meeting. INGREDIENTS % lb. Sausage Y%, lb. Ground beef 2 large chopped onions salt and pepper Fry till brown, drain off the grease. Add: 1 pt. Tomatoes 1 c. Cooked rice: 1 c. Cooked macaroni 1 c. White sauce made with the grease in which the meat was cooked. Sprinkle cracker crumbs on top, and bake 45 minutes at 375°. You can use all ground beef, if you care to, instead of part sausage, and you can add one can of mushroom soup, just as it comes in the can, in place of white sauce. Both ways are delicious. This recipe serves ten. ONS: ASPEN TREES IN THE WASATCH MOUNTAINS, UTAH + %r OF A Certain Pledge Harriett L. George A tree stands like a certain pledge Of God's unfailing love; So sturdy and dependable, It reaches far above The other growing things of earth; And he who plants a tree Has placed his hand in that of God For all the world to see. A storm may lay the garden low And strip the shrubs of bloom, May scatter fear in human hearts, Create an air of gloom. But when the sky is clear again And men resume their calm, The tree stands firmly in its place, Its strength a healing balm. Page 306 Uncertain Possession CHAPTER 5 Beatrice R. Parsons Synopsis: Lorna Ashton, an orphan, who has no home of her own and has lived with a cousin, marries Dr. Matthew Wire and goes to live in Westfield, Nevada. She is afraid that Matthew's relatives and friends and even his patients, will continue to mean so much to him that he will never belong wholly to her. However, she gradually finds a place for herself in the community and in the affections of Uncle John, Nurse Hallie, and Carole, a little neighbor girl. She meets Anne Clayton and Jeanne Beatty, friends of Matthew's, and becomes acquainted with Jim Nason, an eccentric recluse, who has been asked to help financially with the building of a much-needed hospital in Sky Valley. Two small china kittens, which Lorna has treasured since childhood, have become to her a symbol of possession, and yet she gradually learns to share herself and her husband with others. URING the days which followed one another like bright, shimmering beads in a necklace of hours, Lorna grew more and more used to living in Westfield, although she had never given up her dream of going back to Utah, and Doctors' Center. However, she talked little about it to Matt. Since the time Jim Nason had talked to her, she had seemed to know that Matt would not like to leave Westfield. He still had his dream of a hospital for Sky Valley. She wanted to shake Jim Nason. With all that money, he would have nothing but a foolish statue of himself to show for it! She knew the people needed a hospital, but there was nothing she could do to help them get one. So ' she pushed the thought from her mind and dreamed of living in her own home town once again. Lorna was often alone, in spite of the fact that Matt sometimes took her with him when he went to pay calls. Once in a while Matt and Lorna drove to a_ neighboring farm or ranch where mumps, measles, or chicken-pox held children prisoners. ' Lorna amused herself by making scrapbooks from cut-outs from the pages of magazines. Matt's office was filled with medical magazines. And there were all of Hallie's R. N. Magazines, but none of the pictures were for small children. | So Lorna bought and read the women's magazines, then cut them up for pictures. Always, she was rewarded by a smile from some small bulging, or speckled, little countenance. So the days cut themselves into a pattern. 'There were her light household duties. The old house was not hard to keep clean, and she used her wedding gifts to make it attractive. Matt said she could have lived in a barn and soon would have made it over into a home. She liked hearing him praise her, and kept the house spic-and-span for him. She also tried to take as many burdens as she could from Hallie's stiff, unbending shoulders. Hallie never thanked her. But Matt's grin showed that he knew. And understood! Page 307 308 Matt and Uncle John tried hard to keep office hours from ten until five. More often than not, they ran until six or seven. And aside from his duties as general practitioner, Matt was also a local health officer. Sometimes he had to drive into neighboring towns to check on complaints. Lorna looked ruefully into his tired face. "I know how it is, Matt. Besides the physical exertion of your twelve, fourteen, and sometimes almost twenty-four-hour days, there's the emotional strain, too. I can feel it when you're with a sick child. Or when Jeanne calls and you sit and look at her, almost probingly." There was an unspoken question in her tone, and Matt nodded almost imperceptibly. "She's been complaining, lately, about tiny, shooting pains from the tips of her fingers to the back of her neck...." "And that could mean, Matt?" prompted Lorna worriedly. "It could mean..." he began, then shook his head as though to 'dispel such a notion. "It could mean nothing except that Jeanne is tired. She taught school all winter. And all summer she's been conducting. Classes for those children who didn't make their grades. She needs a rest." "Why not send her away, Matt!" Lorna's voice had been eager. But it tensed as Matt glanced into her face with puzzled eyes. "Oh, no," she cried quickly, knowing that he was remembering the wild hawk C which had intruded into their tight little twosome. "Oh, no, Matt! I[ didn't mean it that way." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 Matt's eyes were deep and tender. "Tm sure you didn't, Lorna." She groped for words, still flushed, a little ashamed. "If there was only some way to make her take a vacation. If you could order her to rest. Perhaps I could take over her classes until...." She didn't know how to finish with Matt looking at her like that. She and Jeanne hadn't been very close since Lorna had come to Westfield, and yet she had a great sympathy for anyone who needed to leave Westfield, even for a little time. Matt considered: "I could send her away. Somewhere. Perhaps California." He planned swiftly: "You can suggest it." "Matt!" Lorna was on her feet, protesting weakly: "I couldn't. I'd be afraid." "Afraid!" Matt smiled. "Why should you be afraid of Jeanne? Or anyone for that matter? I had a feeling that you were getting over some of your shyness, your ridiculous fears.". Lorna was flushed, miserable as She sat down. "I guess I'll never be cured, Matt," she said thinly. He came over and kissed her. "Of course you will, darling," he said reassuringly. 'Then he straightened up and confessed: "It's really nothing to be afraid, Lorna. Why, plenty of times I'm scared, too. That's one of the penalties—if there are penalties—of being a doctor. No man can study the chart of an eight-year-old pneumonia victim without wondering if the miracle drug, penicillin, can reduce temperature to normal within twentyfour hours. I can't think of Mar- UNCERTAIN POSSESSION garet without feeling an impotent rage that I cannot cure her. I can't 'think of Jeanne without imagining the worst. Brain tu-? Mor ' He broke off, saying gravely: "Pll send her to a hospital for XTays. If only we had our hospital.. He stopped, as though the things that were pressing down upon him were more than he could bear. Lorna watched him pacing the room, and told herself, once more, and this time with an assurance she had never felt before, that she must talk Matt into leaving Westfield, the minute his uncle was ready to take over his patients again. Matt's own patients, at Doctors' Center, would have all the modern facilities, and he wouldn't have to worry so much. She was almost glad to hear the telephone ringing so that Matt could stop pacing and answer it. She didn't mind the telephone so much when it rang at lunch time. Besides, Matt had really been able to enjoy his sandwich and cold milk. She smiled as he picked up the phone. "Answer it, Dr. Matthew Wire! It's probably someone who knows we're alone together, having a COzZy little chat, and. Her voice drained slowly. Away as she watched Matt's features change. She knew the voice on the other end was terribly urgent by the way he answered. As he put the phone down, he spoke crisply, "An accident, Lorna. A two-car crash. Several people hurt. They want Uncle John, Hallie, and me." He went to get his bag, adding: "Lorna, look after the 309 office. Please telephone the afternoon patients, and tell them we won't be here, to come in the morning, beginning at eight, if necessary." He left the house quickly, after speaking on the intercommunication phone to Uncle John and Hallie. Lorna stood at the door, pale and shaken by the message, as the car rolled out of the driveway and up the street. A few minutes later, she was almost glad to see Carole running across the street, her small puppy, Chews, barking lustily at her heels. When Carole came in, Lorna was surprised to find that she was rather pale and frightened looking, and that she was crying a little wildly. She hurried to ask about Chews, fearing that something had _happened to the puppy. But Carole shook her braids, and through her sobbing, explained that it wasn't the little dog. "It's not Chews! It's me!" She sobbed again, and held up her hand. It was crudely wrapped in a handkerchief—a not-too-clean handkerchief—and there was blood mixed with the dirt on the cloth. Carole cried shrilly: "I'm hurt! It's bleeding. It pains me. I don't know what to do. My Mama's gone to the grocery store, and Chews and I are all alone!" Lorna was too shocked and worried to speak. She could scarcely manage her breath. She looked wildly across the street for Mrs. Wilson. For anyone. Carole's wails were loud and frightening. "Dr. Matt and Hallie are gone, and there's nobody. To wrap it up." 310 LORNA stared in horror at the blood-soaked handkerchief which Carole had used to wrap up the cut. The sight of the blood made her physically ill. Faint, nauseated, and caught at the back of a chair to steady herself. "Maybe Anne would know what to do," she muttered confusedly. "Or Jeanne." 7 "T fell and broke a bottle," sobbed Carole, and Lorna wanted to sob, too. But she knew that no matter how hard it was going to be to attend the cut, she had a responsibility. She remembered what Matt had told her once about a doctor, or nurse, having a great need for a poker face. She must pretend to be calm and professional in the face of Carole's fear. "We'll go into the office," she said more loudly than she expected. "We'll find something to stop the bleeding. When Dr. Matt comes back, he can fix it properly. First," she said, opening Matt's office door, "I suppose we should wash off all the dirt." The warm water made Carole flinch, so she used cold. All the time she was examining the cut— which was long and deep—she felt like fainting and only kept herself from doing so by taking a big drink of cold water. She gave one to Carole, too. "Now for some salve." she said unsteadily, and her knees felt wobbly as she went towards Hallie's refrigerator. Searching among the jars and bottles, carefully labeled in Hallie's_ precise handwriting, Lorna tried to recall what Matt had said about penicillin. Well, if it could She felt - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 cure pneumonia, it could surely cure cuts! There was a big tube. She squeezed a more than generous amount on a piece of gauze and managed a not too unprofessional bandage on Carol's hand. Then she made Carole lie down, for the child still looked pale and frightened. "TIL see if I can find something for you to play with," she said as she disappeared into the corridors. Oh, if she had only not given away the very last of her little scrapbooks. The magazines were all cut up because she and Matt had already read them. Her eyes searched wildly all about the apartment. 'They fell on the little china kittens. Very reluctantly, she picked them up. Carole was sitting up, looking out of the window when she came back. Carole didn't seem to see the kittens, she was crying again, and she hurried outside, calling, relievedly, over her shoulder: "Mummys home, Lorna. I want my Mummy." and her crying left a little thread of sound as she rushed to tell her mother about the cut. Unsteadily, Lorna set the little kittens on one of the enameled tables, and knew that she must either lie down, or fall down. She was really going to faint. She managed the couch, just before the dark pit of unconsciousness closed about her. GHE didn't know how long she was out, but after a while she opened her eyes and found her head aching fiercely so that she remained just where she was, knowing that her fit of nausea had not passed completely. UNCERTAIN POSSESSION When the others came home, they found her lying there, listless, pale. 7 Matt was alarmed, seeing the upset. Office. His voice came in a hoarse little rush. "Oh, Lorna, Lorna, darling, what is it!" Lorna was dimly conscious that she had left the bloody water in the basin, the penicillin uncapped, the gauze carelessly unwound. She tried to reassure the circle of worried faces that leaned over her. "It was Carole, Matt. She cut her finger.' She sat up, pushing her dizziness away with an unsteady hand at her temple. "I had to wash it and wrap it up. I oh, Matt, I told you I'd faint at the sight of blood!" She was so ashamed that she cried. Matt sat down beside her and stroked her gleaming curls. "There, there, darling. As long as Carole's all right, you musn't worry." She dried her eyes on his big, white handkerchief, knowing she was disgracing herself by acting | such a baby. She saw Hallie capably swishing the water out of the dirty basin, methodically squeezing out a dab of penicillin before she put back the cap. 'The unused portion of the unwound gauze she tossed into the wastebasket with a little frown. From under a clouded layer of memory, Lorna remembered that Matt had said that penicillin should always be refrigerated, that gauze must always be kept sterile. Hallie's rubber heels moved quietly, yet purposefully about the laboratory repairing the damage Lorna had done. 'There was a chill 311 antagonism about her that made Lorna wince. Now, she thought, disturbed, she dislikes me more than ever. Now she's more convinced than she ever was that I'm careless, thoughtless, not fit to be Matt's wife. Her thoughts stretched out, unbidden. Hallie sees right through me. She knows I'm afraid of things. Afraid to let Matt go very far away. She knows I'm jealous of his friends here in Westfield, because they've shared so much with him. Hallie knows that I'd like to keep Matt beside me all the time. She sees deep inside me, the way I saw deep into Carole's cut. She knows I'm selfish, possessive Suddenly she put her head into the curve of Matt's arm and shoulder and wept convulsively: "Oh, Matt, let's go away from here. Away from horrible accidents. From cuts and bruises. Let's go home where things will be different. Where." ATT'S face was unsteady as he bent it towards her. His voice, however, was firm, steady. "Lorna, you're hysterical! You're saying a lot of things you don't really mean." Lorna sat up, biting her lips. Uncle John walked with his cane to open the door into the waiting room. LLorna's eyes widened, her face grew flushed. The waiting room was filled with patients. Her voice was choked as Uncle John went out. "Oh, Matt, I forgot to telephone them!" For an instant she detected some- 312 thing like impatience in Matt's features. 'hen he patted her arm and spoke soothingly. "You've had a pretty trying afternoon, darling. Uncle John and I will take care of them." He turned to slip into his white coat, then saw the small china kittens on the enameled table.. "At least," he said proudly, looking deep into her eyes, "you didn't forget one thing! You remembered the most important thing of all. You remembered to let Carole play with your little cats!" Lorna gathered the kittens up into her hands, preparing to take them back to the apartment. 'Then she saw the pride and happiness in Matt's face, and she knew there was something else important she had to do. Much as she cringed at the thought of giving away her small cats, she knew she must. Matt wanted her to. Hallie expected it. But she knew, by the unbending sternness of Hallie's back, that she was sure Lorna wouldn't. With her head thrown, almost defiantly back, she went shakily toward the — door. "Maybe Carole's finger should have some professional attention, Matt. I'll take her the kittens, and tell her mother you will see her later." Matt's voice rang with pride. "You've done a really magnificent job all around, today, sweetheart. Carole will be happy with the little china cats. You'll be happy without them, I'm sure, when you get RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 used to the idea.' His eyes went from graveness to twinkling laughter, and he added: "I'm sure no harm will come to Carole's finger since you doctored it with so much penicillin!" He was laughing at her, Lorna knew as she crossed the street. Yet he really wasn't laughing at all. Her heart beat lightly as she saw Carole's mother coming towards the door. Carole rushed through the screen before her mother could open it, | and thanked Lorna with a quick hug. | "You're going to let me play with the kittens." "You may have the kittens," said Lorna, firmly. Carole hugged her again, and her small hands trembled as_ they touched the china cats. Her blue eyes sparkled with happiness. "Every time I've seen them on your dressing table, I've wanted to play with them, Lorna. I've never asked because." Her voice drifted away, and her cheeks were pink. Lorna's cheeks were pink, too, and she smiled at Carole's mother, over Carole's intent little head. "She's going to be all right. Dr. Matt will look at her finger later on. He said I'd used plenty of penicillin." Going back across the street, Lorna smiled. Matt had said "penicillin," but his eyes had said something far more healing. (To be continued) Dear Conquest Part III Deone R. Sutherland Synopsis: Maggie Sullivan, young and beautiful, comes to Oakville as a high school teacher. Charlie Kirkenson and other young men are interested in Maggie, but she seems to prefer Ira Scott, a strange, silent rancher, whom she met at the Deer Hunter's Ball. On Christmas night Maggie and Ira become engaged and plan to marry in the spring. RA Scott and Maggie Sullivan were married in the temple the last of May, right after school let out. 'They came back to Oakville for a reception which Annie and I gave for them in my house. We opened the sliding doors between the living room and dining room and put out chairs, opened up the parlor, and served in there. 'Then we used the upstairs bedrooms for presents. Maggie wore a white satin wedding dress her stepmother had bought her, and Ira wore a new suit. They stood alone because Maggie had had so many friends in Oakville who thought they should be the special ones to stand up with her. That was a way Maggie had, making a person feel he was extra special. Everybody in Oakville came to the reception, and though Maggie didn't invite many from other places, some drove in and stayed at the hotel. Maggie's stepmother wouldn't stay with me, but stayed at the hotel. Maggie and Ira moved into the ranch house. Ira was always busy this time of year, but Maggie had wanted to finish the year's teaching before her marriage, so they were married in the midst of his spring work, which included calving. The ranch was some distance from Oakville, but Annie and I managed to get out just before the wedding to work on it a little. It was built with no living room, but it had a huge kitchen. Maggie didn't seem too discouraged, but it might be another thing after she had had to live there awhile. Then there were the many ranch hands who ate in the kitchen. Maggie wanted to dispense with the cook until I made her go out and watch the ranch hands come in and eat. "It would take me all day to peel enough potatoes for that many people— buckets!" Maggie observed. It wasn't until the middle of summer that My John and I drove out to the ranch. It looked hot and dusty even with the tiny new fruit trees rowing the house. The bunkhouses looked hot and brown, and there was no sign of life as we drove by. Maggie had her new curtains up, and screens. The Mexican cook let us in. "Meeses Scott in bed," she said. The pantry was off the kitchen, and she backed into it and continued scraping vegetables. 'The kitchen was changed a little. It had been painted in yellow and white, with some brownish stenciling, and there was a huge, round, braided rug in front of the fireplace that looked gay. The table was still monstrous for the men to eat at. Page 313 314 Maggie called from the bedroom. "Come in here, please, if you don't mind." She lay in the huge walnut bed with its carved posts that had been Ira's father's. She had done more fixing up with the bedroom than the kitchen. I sat on the rocker with the tufted back by the bed while My John sat over by the window. "IT won't pretend it's a cold I've got," said Maggie. "Or something I ate. "T hope not," I said. "It's nothing to be hidden, but something to be shouted to the skies. I guess I'd have published it somehow if I could ever have had children." Maggie reached over and took my hand. "I feel fine by late afternoon. Ira's going to get the doctor -tonight. He won't let me even tide to Oakville in the car." Maggie laughed while I took out my crocheting. M'ccies baby was born the last of April. We drove out to the ranch through the mud and damp April spring. I took my suitcase out, and My John left me for a week to do for Maggie after the baby came. Annie was there when I got there. She didn't seem to be relieved, but Maggie seemed glad to see me. | Maggie sat up in bed and held her baby in the cradle of her arm for me to see. He had black hair like Ira's. "He's got a stubborn chin," I said, smiling. - "Oh, he's the best baby." Maggie began. Every baby's a best baby, I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 thought, but I liked to hear the mother say so. Ira showed the baby to the men each day at noon and for a brief moment each night. "This is Sullivan Ira Scott," he would say. "Have you ever seen a bigger baby for his age?" "Never," the men' would say. Then Ira would come back and put the baby in his cradle and sit by Maggie's bed and eat. Perhaps, I thought, this is all as it was meant to be from the very beginning. "Tm glad the showers have "stopped," Maggie remarked. "It's nice to have the sun so warm again. That window there is such a joy.' Ira looked out. "Don't say that," he said. "We need the rain in the spring, a lot of it, or we have trouble in the summer." "Yes," I agreed, "a farming community never complains about the tain unless it turns to hail." 'Then Ira turned to go. "Even the men have longer to eat and talk than Ira does," Maggie complained. Ira leaned over the baby and touched his finger, kissed Maggie, and hurried out. "He's a hard-working man," I said, but Maggie was turning the pages of a magazine so probably didn't hear., I went home after a week and a half. Maggie said she was sorry to see me go. "Tt does seem good to have someone to talk to," Maggie said sadly as I got into My John's car. "Don't fret," I said. "That baby will keep you so busy you won't have time to talk." DEAR CONQUEST "Yes, but I like to have someone to show him off to all the time," Maggie laughed. "Well, Ira might not be so busy later in the season." | We waved goodbye. It rained very little more in April or May, and the farmers who lived in town and owned farms. Farther out would stop after church or after dark, coming in from the farm, and worry among themselves about not enough rain. Y the middle of summer, when Ira and Maggie had the baby named in fast meeting, the drought was on.. 'They came to Sunday dinner, but Ira kept worrying the whole time about starting home. He seemed even less talkative than I'd 'known him to be. Maggie tried to cheer us up by telling of little Sullivan's attempts to express himself. He was a sweet baby and seemed prettier every time we saw him. Everyone was losing some cattle, but Ira was harder hit because he had the most cattle. "But you have more left," I said cheerfully, but there was no answering smile from Ira. They left soon after. Maggie kissed me on the cheek. "I'm sorry we've been such poor company." "You've been fine," I said. "You be a comfort to Ira." "He won't let me," said Maggie, and she turned away and jumped into the car. The biggest rain we'd had for a few years came the first of August. The drought was over, and I wondered about Ira and Maggie. I decided the first chance I got I'd take out some blackberry jam I'd just finished putting up. 315 I didn't get out until the peaches were on. When Rosie, the Mexican cook, let me in, I could see Maggie's bottles of freshly put up peaches upside down filling her table. She was a real worker, there was no question about that. "She down to the corral," pointed Rosie. So I went out to look for Maggie She was standing on the bottom slat of the gate watching inside. I'd heard about the expensive new Hereford bull Ira had just bought. Ira and one of the cane and a neighbor, Joe Marshall, were bringing him into the outer corral. They climbed out and came and stood near us by the gate, watching the bull. "Now that was a real buy," said Joe Marshall. "I don't know how you manage to do it." "He really is a good looking animal," agreed Maggie. But Ira's face only looked cloudy as if he disliked Maggie saying that. "I don't know," said Ira, "I guess he wasn't too much of a bargain. Maybe I should have waited to buy." "Nonsense," said Joe. I saw Maggie shut her lips tight. I wanted to say that that was just Ira's way again, but Maggie turned and walked up to the house with me. "Since the drought he's been that way more than ever," said Maggie as we neared the house. "Even the baby. He won't praise anything any more, not that he ever did very much. But sometimes he did say some rather kindly things to me. See how he acted about that bull!" There was a sudden flash in Mag- 316 gie's eyes, and then she changed the subject. Rr wasn't three days after that that the news was all over Oakville. Maggie had sold Ira's new Hereford bull to Joe Marshall for the same price he'd paid for it. Jake Turner had been washing up at the pump in Ira's back yard when he'd heard Ira ask Maggie where in the world the bull could have gone. "Why, Ira," Maggie exclaimed, "T've done the best thing for you. I persuaded Joe Marshall to take it off your hands at the same price you paid for it." "You what?" Jake had stopped washing with a start at Ira's voice. "Why, yes," Maggie had gone on, "you said yourself if you'd only waited you could have got a better buy later. Well, now you can have that chance." That was all Jake heard. The men were coming up for dinner. Joe Marshall took the Hereford bull back to Ira when he found out Ira hadn't favored. The sale. "No," said Ira firmly, "you keep the bull. You bought it fair. Maggie represents us both as I do." Joe felt mighty uneasy about the black look of Ira, but finally he had to take it home again. Ira considered the deal closed. I went out to see Maggie. After the bedroom door was safely shut, she stood at the window, dry-eyed and unhappy. "T thought I had a point that Ira might see," said Maggie. "But all I've done is to make everything worse. Do you know what Ira said? All he's said?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 "No," I shook my head dryly, "but I can imagine." "No, you can't," said Maggie. "He asked me in a tone so bitter you can't imagine, "Why do you. Want to make a fool of me and of you?'"' She dropped her head on her hand. "He wouldn't let me try to explain. I know now it was silly and stupid, but I thought a lot of talk would come out of it all. Instead Ira's even more silent than ever. He won't discuss it or let me." She straightened her shoulders. "Well, I'll keep trying in my blundering way anyway." The baby began to stir so I picked him up and patted him. "He's a sweet one to hold," I said. "My isn't he getting to be a big one?" "He is," said Maggie proudly. I didn't see Maggie and Ira again until just before 'Thanksgiving. C I wrote them asking them to come to Thanksgiving dinner with My John and me. Maggie answered that they would. It would probably be the last time they'd get in and back before the real snows began. I invited Grandma Friebach in to eat with us, too. She took turns with her numerous invitations so that My John and I felt real pleased that she could come to us this year. My John went out early and brought her back in his sleigh. When I tried to tuck her up in a rocker by the fire, she'd have none of that. "Tl help," she said, and she did. She settled herself on a stool in my kitchen and proceeded to do wonders with my sweet potatoes.' My John tried to get her to come in the | living room and talk to him. = "TJ'll DEAR CONQUEST come when Maggie and Ira get here," she decided. Liecckalanortelasen wiien\ Travan Maggie and the baby arrived. Grandma Friebach and I both helped Maggie unwind Sullivan. He gave a few gleeful waves of his feet and arms and then turned over and began to drowse. Grandma rocked him by the fire. Ira stood by the window talking worriedly to John about snowstorms. There were flurries in the air, and the sky was dark enough so we had our lamps on. "IT never realized how important weather whethers can be," said Maggie, laughing lightly, "whether it snows or doesn't, whether it looks dark or doesn't, whether the wind blows or doesn't." Ira looked at her silently while she ran upstairs with sleeping Sullivan. "Well," announced Grandma Friebach to Maggie when she came down, "I think we're all ready to sit down at last." My John blessed the food and then began carving the turkey. The wind and the snow had begun in earnest. 'There was a sudden wild blast of wind that rattled the windows, accompanied by a pounding at the front door. My John and Ira and I rose simultaneously. My John let Ira's man, Jake, in. He stood scattering snow in our front hall, wiping at his face and panting a story in Ira's direction. | "What about old Dominic?" Ira blocked the doorway into the hall, but we could still hear Jake. "The little mare must have fallen on the ice crossing Muddy River. I don't know, Ira, what all old 317 'Dominic's got broken, his collarbone and arm. He's not in his right senses at all. I can't find Doctor Rich at home; he's clear at the other end of town. I don't even know if we can get back to the ranch to Dominic with the doctor with this here storm. I had a terrible time getting aa the last part of the way " Ira was pulling on his coat, jerking at his boots. "We'll get the doctor and get out there all right," Ira grunted as he did up his boot straps. "I'm right sorry, John," Ira said, hurrying. "That's all nght." My John handed him his coat. "Tra," Maggie said, her voice high and unsteady. She began to pull down her coat. "You'll have to stay here," Ira said, his hands rushing at the buttons on his coat. "We'll never make it with you and the baby and the doctor in this storm. I'll be back as soon as I can. I've got to take care of old Dominic." "You might not be able to get back." Maggie's voice trembled, but Ira never answered, just gave her a quick kiss and he and Jake swung the door shut behind them, and there was the jangle of the sleigh harness. We sat back down at the table, but the room seemed too silent. Maggie's chin wobbled a little as she looked down at her plate. "Tra's not asking much, Maggie," Grandma Friebach said __ briskly, "just that you stay here for a few days or a week or so depending on the weather, so he can help a hurt man that worked good for his fa- (Continued on page 357) Magazine Subscriptions for 1951 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp HE faithfulness and devotion of Relief Society officers, Magazine representatives, and Relief Society Magazine subscribers were clearly demonstrated in the great increase in the number of subscriptions to The Relief Society Magazine in 1951. The number rose from 92,598 as of December 31, 1950, to 104,210 as of December 31, 1951, Or an increase of 11,612. Increased costs of paper, printing, and handling the Magazine gave 'grave concern to the general board at the close of 1951 regarding the maintenance of the subscription price at $1.50. While the future in costs remains uncertain, it would seem that with such an increasing number of subscriptions, the subscription price can be maintained at the present rate of $1.50, unless unforeseen increases occur. The worth of the Magazine to Relief Society is beyond calculation. It allows a presentation to its members all over the world of all matters vital to Relief Society. Through its record of activities of Relief Societies in the stakes and missions, it binds the sisters closer together in a unity of understanding and love. It contains the lesson work and obviates the need of the sisters buying lesson booklets. It carries reports of the annual general Relief Society conferences to the tens of thousands of sisters who are not privileged to attend the conferences Page 318 in person. It contains articles by inspired writers of the Church. Besides offering an opportunity to Latter-day Saint women authors to have their literary work published, it provides worthwhile reading in harmony with gospel principles. The heritage of the writings of the women of Mormondom from the. Days of Lula Greene Richards, first editor of The Woman's Exponent, to the days of Susa Young Gates, first editor of The Relief Society Magazine, and up to the present, becomes increasingly precious. The sisters of the Church are grateful for the blessing of a Magazine to further the work of Relief Society, and show it, year by year, by the added number of sisters who support the Magazine. In 1950 there were 120 stakes and g missions on the Honor Roll. In 1951 there are 151 stakes and 13 missions on the Honor Roll. It is with a feeling of deep gratitude that the general board expresses its thanks to every sister who has helped to achieve the magnificent increase of subscriptions in 1951. The Magazine representatives are to be congratulated on the great service they are rendering Relief Society by their tireless efforts in placing The Relief Society Magazine in the homes of the sisters of the Church. Honors for Highest Ratings - Stake South Los Angeles (California) 184% Magazine Representative—Nancy M. Rupp Ward South Gate Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) 262% Magazine Representative—Evelyn Ferrera Mission Texas-Louisiana, 99% Mission Relief Society President—Leone R. Bowring Mission District West Texas District, Texas-Louisiana Mission, 158% District Magazine Representative—La Prial D. White Mission Branch Franklin Branch, 318% West Virginia North District, East Central States Mission Magazine Representative—Alice B. Hartman Stakes Achieving Highest Percentages South Los Angeles (California) 184 Nancy M. Rupp Nyssa (Oregon) -----+-s0:--------soe0136 Mae E. Boyer San Joaquin (California) 134 Wealtha Mendenhall Provo (Utah) W 0..22.2.2.-.-1--s-134 Flora Buggert Oquirth (Utah) 22. Ee128 Beatrice W. Dimond Glendale (California) 125 Humboldt (Nevada) -..---125 East Los Angeles (California) 120 Inglewood (California) 119 Elsie Weber Charlotte S. Ferguson ZLelma Beck Maurine B. Campbell Missions Achieving Highest Percentages Texas-Louisiana Western States Califormia 2.22 eee cece eee89. Northern States 00 2222000220---+89. Central States 0..0.0.000 0000 ee eee84 Northwestern States 0 02.000 0020..--81 Southern States - 202 000000.-. Cee2ee-81 Great Lakes - ee78. West Central States 0.000.2 78. Leone R. Bowring, President 8 Mildred M. Dillman, President La Priel S. Bunker, President Lucy T. Anderson, President Annie M. Ellsworth, President _ Mavil A. McMurrin, President _ Rula W. Choules, President F: lla C. Burton, President _ Reta F. Broadbent, President Page 319 320 Stakes in Which All the Wards Achieved 100% or Above South Los Angeles Nancy M. Rupp SSa Mae A. Boyer SAM JOAQUIN "Wu eee seceseeececeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeWealtha Mendenhall 0,1) (in 2-2Beatrice W. Dimond OI (Se (a Elsie Weber Humboldt 2 eeeeeeeeee eee ececeeeeceee Charlotte S. Ferguson PaSACOMa - -. N2o----nenenenennnneneceeeneeencnennnunnstecensBlanche Calvert Tdaho Falls "..0.2 - -ces-cec-cceceeeneeeeeeeeeeeseees Ila Stoddard MTG Y oon. Ci cc cnescscecenscceceen-nsencensecasecersereroeesaanMerle Young East Long Beach Simon 0 0.2 oe Edna M. Hansen MGVICD oo cscncceeceennn-----2Nde NeBeth V. Anderson | Elizabeth W. McLelland Pocatello 2.2.2 esceccecceceeceeecesenceeeeea R. M. Drake Sugar House 200..1 20.-cccescccecscesceeccecssuceeceeeAlta Whitehead South Box Elder.0 eeccecccecceececeeeceeee Edith E. Baddle South Idaho Falls.0.0 0..2o. EccccccscccseeceeeValeria Blatter West Utah ooo. Cccccccccctccececececceeceeeeee Cleo L. Thatcher South Los Angeles Nyssa San Joaquin _ Provo Oquirrh Glendale Humboldt East Los Angeles Inglewood San Fernando Long Beach Idaho Falls | Cassia. Pasadena Shelley East Long Beach Sacramento Rexburg Moapa Santa Monica Phoenix North Idaho Falls Nampa Pocatello San Bernardino Sharon Wilford Los Angeles Sevier Burley Sugar House RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 evictMargaret Bryan Stakes by Percentages 184 136 134 134 128 125 125 120 119 118 118 117 116 116 116 115 115 114 113 112 112 112 111 111 111 110 109 108 108 107 107 Granite | South Box Elder South Idaho Falls Liberty Taylor — Minidoka Union Grant South Salt Lake North Jordan Wasatch Ogden Rigby West Utah San Francisco San Juan Portneuf Bannock East Provo Blackfoot 'American Falls Twin Falls Kolob Uvada Boise Bonneville St. Joseph Palo Alto Ensign Gridley West Pocatello = MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR 1951 South Ogden East Jordan Orem Bear River Weiser Big Horn Denver Monument Park Mt. Graham Seattle Parowan Pioneer > University Bakersfield Florida Southern Arizona East Rigby North Box Elder Ben Lomond North Rexburg Highland Malad Uintah Emigration Tooele Utah Park. West Jordan New York Timpanogos Milicreek Cache Santa Barbara Bear Lake North Weber Murray Santa Rosa Cottonwood Oneida Mount Ogden St. Johns East Riverside South Bear River Alberta Deseret Teton East Cache Duchesne Mesa San Diego Carbon Farr West Blaine Weber Lake View Oakland Alpine St. George Davis Palmyra Zion Park Chicago Fresno Young North Davis Wells San Luis Raft River Salt Lake Snowflake Lethbridge Idaho Yellowstone Franklin Lehi Roosevelt Spokane Reno Washington Beaver Kanab Cedar Maricopa South Davis Lyman Mount Jordan South Summit Temple View - Star Valley Hillside Juarez South Carolina Mount Logan Portland Nevada Berkeley South Sevier Riverside Wayne Richland Benson Millard Smithfield North Carbon Montpelier Nebo Hyrum North Sanpete Lost River ' Garfield Summit South Sanpete Emery Grantsville Logan Moon Lake Panguitch East Millcreek Juab Santaquin-Tintic Woodruff North Sevier Gunnison Moroni Morgan Oahu Relief Society Alberta Stake Aetna Cardston First Cardston Second Cardston Fourth Glenwood Hartley Hill Spring Leavitt Mountain View Taylorsville De Bonita Branch Jefferson Branch Alpine Stake American Fork First American Fork Second American Fork Third American Fork Fourth American Fork Sixth American Fork Seventh American Fork Eighth No. 637 551 75 mo 84 58 70 85 80 American Falls Stake 328 Aberdeen First Aberdeen Second American Falls Rockland Springfield Sterling Bakersfield Stake Bakersfield First Bakersfield Second Bakersfield Third EnrollSubscriptions ment Pct. 86 HONOR ROLL Magazine Representative Rhoda Sloan Iris Jensen Anna Olsen Celia Willmott Minnie Gallup Eliza Beavers Annie B. Orr Viola Wynder Pearl Redford Jane Payne Rowyne Woolsey Grace West Agnes Sherman Sadie Meredith Edith B. Jones Alwene Ritchie Rhoda Parker Ann C. Hansen Sylvia Walker Marie Reimschussel Leona W. Larson Harriet Peterson Ida M. Hurd Harriet Peterson Clara Wagstaff Lela Hartley Marie B. Thurston Annie R. Nelson Anna E. Gage - Alfrita B. Moyes Erma Tribolet Ida Mack Relief Society Beaver Stake Beaver First Beaver Third Milford First Milford Second Ben Lomond Stake Lorin Farr North Ogden First North Ogden Second Ogden Seventh Ogden Twenty-first Ogden Twenty-ninth Benson Stake Cornish Lewiston Third Richmond Richmond South Trenton Berkeley Stake Berkeley First — Berkeley Second East Richmond — Richmond Walnut Creek Big Horn Stake Basin Burlington Byron Cody Cowley EnrollSubscriptions ment 508 78 93 64 62 710 No. 388 74 79 Pet. 76 95 85 Magazine Representative Zelma S. Muir Martha Beaumont Kate Bowman Frances Kinross Mildred Wilcock Maude P. Close Evelyn Poulter Edith V. Judkins Louise B. Ellis Lenora Poorte Doris C. Richards Edith Andersen Sarah Leavitt Anna W. Mills Margaret Johnson Margaret Anderson Martha Cottle Mae Waldram Adele Duncan Lula Turner Mary Bledsoe Dorothy E. Mathews Elna S. Johnson Ona Scott Della Allen Margaret Winzenried Mrs. Lewis Barling Della Mathews 322 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 Delano Lancaster Porterville Taft Baaewecl Stake Bench Central Cleveland Grace First Grace Second Lago Mound Valley Thatcher Williams Bear Lake Stake Bloomington Fish Haven Garden City Lake Town Lanark Liberty Ovid Paris First Paris Second St. Charles Sharon Bear River Stake Beaver East Garland Fielding Garland First Garland Second Park Valley Plymouth Snowville Stone Juanita B. Brooks Barbara S. Jones Cecilia Heindel Juanita Davis Ida Sorenson Rosezella Hanson Libbie Maughan Vera S. Nielson La Dean Hendricks Ada Williams Norma Mickelson Mrs. Clyde Condie Naomi Robbins Hazel Dalton Millie Sprouse Bertha C. Thornock Ethel Perkins Margaret Hodges Montry M. Kearl La Reva Findlay Laura Poulsen Hazel L. Peterson Rosa Grandy Beulah H. Bird Vidella Booth Hazel Long Rennis A. Larkin Hilda Johnson Naoma G. Oyler Voylet Grover Ida Hartman Rhoda Christopherson Edna Palmer Eathel Estep Cora Daley — Lela Pratt Lovell Lovell West Otto Penrose Powell Worland Belfry Branch Iona Branch Meeteetse Branch Blackfoot Stake Blackfoot First Blackfoot Second Blackfoot Third Blackfoot Fourth Blackfoot Fifth Groveland Moreland Riverside Riverton Rose Thomas Wapello Blaine Stake Fairfield Gooding Jerome First Jerome Second Richfield Dietrich Branch Shoshone Branch Boise Stake Boise First. Boise Second Boise Third Boise Fourth Boise Sixth 89 101 - 115 108 81 80 100 98 (112 107 104° 102 80 Mable Cox Gladys Wilkerson Marie Heath Tilda Wasden Gwen Miller Daisy Nissen Mary Youst Maggie Beal Alma Bennion HONOR ROLL Almira L. Clayton Tressa Higginson Floretta McCurdy Verda S. Clark Margaret Lamprecht Rose James Sarah J. Chapman Gladys W. Belnap Mrs. Von -Hansen Cassie Brown Donna Bischoff Uarda Merrill Bernadine Petersen Reta E. Orchard Blanche V. Naser 'Myrtle Nielson Mary Coates Bessie Mae Hutchison Charlotte Reed Mary Cleveland Dellina Baumann L. Emma Cordon Rinda Sudweeks Julina Hardy Lorraine Hatch Leah Mihu Myrtle Overgard 323 Relief Society Glenns Ferry Meridian Eagle Branch EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 30 93 — 20 Mountain Home Branch 14 Bonneville Stake Bonneville Douglas Garden Park Thirty-third Yale Yalecrest Burley Stake Burley First Burley Second Burley Fourth Burley Fifth Declo Pella Springdale Star Unity View Cache Stake Logan Third Logan Fourth Logan Ninth Logan Fifteenth Logan Sixteenth Logan Seventeenth Carbon Stake Dragerton Price First Price Third 739 108 114 39 130 75 #881 26 130 16 114 721 98 102% 95 98 86 115 108 135 102 133 77 138 130 655. 107 Magazine Representative Leola Thurman Mae Fewkes Norma Marshall Estella M. Hall Rhoda B. Carter Hannah Allen Mertie H. Richards "Eunice Thomas Melba Johnson - Ila C. Norton Rhoda Carter Leona Budge Norma Curtis Ella B. Boatman Louise Stoker Zelma Whittle Hattie Richins Jane Walker Gladys Johnson Hannah Bowers Ellen Poulton Thelma Taylor Orilla J. Lucas Louise R. Rich Jessie Bouwhuis Mabel L. Michaelsen Maye H. Thomas Vellys B. Jensen Jeanette Bergener Gertrude Edwards Vada Anderson Martha J. Smith Louise Mabbutt Relief Society Farmington Second Kaysville First Kaysville Third Denver Stake Barnum Cheyenne Crestmoor Denver First Denver Second Englewood Fort Collins Laramie Boulder Branch Deseret Stake Delta First Delta Second Delta Third Deseret Hinckley Leamington Lynndyl Oak City Oasis Sugarville Sutherland Abraham Branch Callao Branch Duchesne Stake Arcadia Bridgeland Duchesne Hanna Tabiona EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. 47 81 89 52 111 71 88 70 179 214%, 85 29 91 31 86 80 87 21 124 36% 87 Magazine Representative Katie Cunningham Serena Warner Effie Miller Bernice H. Brown Helen Bohn Edith W. Scott Marian B. Lindsay Bernice H. Brown Drusilla B. Ferree Idell M. Quinn Bessie C. Peterson Rose Eads Betty Saxton Alpha Nielson Dona Sorenson Nellie Sorenson Ione Dalley Inga Black Rose B. Dutson Essie Anderson Alpha Nielson Adele Anderson Erma Skeem Norma A. Poulsen Lena Steele Eleanor Murry Inez Tripp Ora Holgate Ida Dean Horrocks Letta Meyer Luella Powell Pearl Turnbow Minnie Hamilton 324 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 Wellington First Wellington Second Cassia Stake Basin Marion Oakley First Oakley Second Oakley Third Cedar Stake Cedar First Cedar Second Cedar Fourth Cedar Fifth College Newcastle New Harmony Chicago Stake Milwaukee North Shore Aurora Branch Batavia Branch Milwaukee South Br. Racine Branch South Shore Branch 19 West Suburban Branch 37 Cottonwood Stake Big Cottonwood Holladay First Holladay Second Holladay Third Holladay Fourth South Cottonwood Davis Stake Centerville First Centerville Second 626 Myrtle Cook Esther Tidwell Jane R. Hale Marion Gorringe Sarah Adams Ada L. Hale Jane R. Hale Irene B. Sutton Isadore Barton Alice Knight lla L. Bauer Alba Hansen Alice Matheson Florence Higbee Belle Hulet Esta S. Taylor Avera C. Homer Vivienne Hart Clara Force Elinor Wolleott Bertha Hayes Hulda Moeller Martha Hubert Amy Landeck Helen J. Elkine Evelyn P. Shelton Dorothy Holmgren Gladys Hansen Ellen Bonham Lillian Lamborn Virginia Pederson Elsa A. Fors Edna Trimble La Vern Darley La Von Duncan ' East Cache Stake Benson College Hill Hyde Park Logan Fifth Logan Tenth Logan Eighteenth Logan Nineteenth North Logan East Jordan Stake Butler East Midvale First East Midvale Second Gardenview Midvale First Midvale Second Union Second East Long Beach Stake 520 Bellflower Fullerton Lakewood Long Beach Third Long Beach Fifth Norwalk Santa Ana Garden Grove Branch 30 46 Huntington Beach Br. 26 27 East Los Angeles Stake 567 Alhambra Belvedere Eastmont Mission Park Montebello First Montebello Second Rosemead Whittier First Whittier Second 626 608 520 86 88 66 75 88 122 Anna N. Stettler Cleo J. Ricks Helen R. Allen Gladis Hancey Abby G. Jenson Della P. Davis Margaret H. Swenson Jane M. Niederhauser Elna King Vida W. Fowles Roberta Antezak Geneva Jacobsen Ida J. Leafquist Hazel Anderson Leda Despain Mary E. Jenkins Marie Griffiths Margaret Bryan Susie Elsmore Elsie L. Phillips Yvonne Eynon | Helen McCombs Manila Worsnop Loraine S. Johnson Fannie Y. Lundquist Elvira Bollschweiler Murl Fullmer Zelma Beck Martha J. Dreiser Alberta Milligan Florence Williamson Mildred Hatch Grace P. Mauss Helen McEwen Gwen G. Boyd Amy C. Hyndman June C. Hayward HONOR ROLL ay N Wi Relief Society East Mill Creek Stake Highland View 73 East Provo Stake Provo Eighth 62 Provo Ninth 44 Provo Twelfth 45 Provo Thirteenth 45 Provo Fifteenth 59 Wymount Branch 68 East Rigby Stake Clark 46 Garfield 33 Lorenzo 25 Milo 62 Palisade 35 Rigby Second 55 Ririe First 61 Ririe Second Shelton 51 East Riverside Stake. 465 Fifteenth Sixteenth 81 Twenty-eighth Emery Stake Castledale 98 Emery Ferron Emigration Stake 406 Twenty-first 83 North Twenty-first Ta No. EnrollSubscriptions ment Pet. 75 Magazine Representative Gloria Taylor Sarah H. Passey LaRelle Elliott Theresia H. Muhlestein Ardel W. Andreasen Ruby W. Hawkins Lou Cox Frankie Fitts Dale Burtenshaw Velma Morgan Anna S. Christensen Wilda Pabst Minnie T. Lee Margaret Cole Dortha Radford Adelia Clark Alice Adamson Dale Burtenshaw Erma L. Haslam Clarissa C. Winsness Susan R. Earnshaw Eleanor Smith Ida W. Snow, Pres. Alene Anderson Deborah Huntsman Polly R. Griffin Sallie S. Keate La Ver O. Nunley Relief Society Fresno Stake Fresno First Fresno Second Merced Coalinga Branch Dinuba Branch Exeter Branch Hanford Branch Los Banos Branch Garfield Stake Boulder Circleville Kingston Glendale Stake Elysian Park Garvanza Glendale East Glendale West Highland Park La Crescenta Sunland Sunset Granite Stake Columbus Fairmont Forest Dale Lincoln Nibley Park Wells Grant Stake Hillerest Lorraine EnrollSubscriptions ment 317 No. 257 Pet. 81 Magazine Representative Laurine A. Ensign Mary L. Petty Marinda F. Berg Villa Stewart May P. Folsom Faye Westfall Carrie Whitney Juanita Henson Eunice Swearingen Nina T. Moosman Rose Beebe Gail Coats Elsie Weber Frances Kelland Elizabeth Burnett Ruth Burt Viola D. McIntire Henrietta Atkinson Emma Jane Clark Alta England Mae Davis Elizabeth W. McLelland — Toni Landvatter 'Clara Love Sentella Pace Catherine Wiseman Emma Armstrong Mazie Roberts Clara W. Stout Belvereen Palmer Margaret Jones 326 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 Twenty-seventh East Twenty-seventh Ensign Stake East Ensign West Ensign North Eighteenth North Twentieth South Twentieth Farr West Stake Farr West Lomond View Marriott Mound Fort Ogden Fifteenth Plain City Slaterville Florida Stake Axson Lake City Palatka Springfield Waycross Wesconnett Gainesville Branch Oak Grove Branch Sanderson Branch Starke Branch Franklin Stake Fairview Linrose Mapleton Preston First Preston Second Preston Fifth Preston Sixth Whitney Florence E. Murphy Viola L. Walton Susie C. Winward Jane Tibbals Florence S. Simmons Susanna F. S. Kruys Cleo Gayle Parratt Hazel Hegrum Berta R. England Sarah Baker Ethel M. McEntire Charlotte S. Blair Phyllis Hufstetler Emma L. B. Allen Alminda L. Johnson Amelia E. Holly Maude G. Hawkins Margaret Mizell Ora Lee Milton Hilda Anderson Grace C. Roden Arzella Jordon Elizabeth Jammes Doris D. McCall Iva Willams Mattie D. Stringer Jenene Manning Gladys Bosen Bertha N. Cole Leta Davis Cora Knapp Mary A. Moser Chloe C. Peterson Nettie S. Nielson Florence Stark Madge H. Ransbottom Ridgedale Smith Smith West Spring Glen Springview Wandamere Wandamere Park Grantsville Stake Grantsville Second Gridley Stake Chico Grass Valley Gridley Oroville Paradise Yuba City Gunnison Stake Axtell Highland Stake Crystal Heights Highland Park Park Avenue Parleys: Rosslyn Heights Stratford Hillside Stake Mountain View South Edgehill Wasatch Humboldt Stake Carlin Elko Montella Antonia Zimmerman Vivian Rice LaPreal Ames Gene Goff Esthma Fort Iva Dell Holmberg Elnora Caproni HONOR ROLL Eva I. Worthington: Violet Gray Arvilla Graham Katie Carter Fayette Sorenson Violet Gray Pearl Smith Lydia Helton Rhoda Jensen Lucy C. Beers Gladys Stutz Marie F. Miller Ruth Harris Maude Neeley Carmen Brown Alda Anderson Ella J. Keddington Vera Hurley Malone Mumford Charlotte S. Ferguson Charlotte S. Ferguson Vera Crissey Elaine Jones 327 Relief Society Wells Winnemucca Rowland Branch Ruby Valley Branch Hyrum Stake Hyrum Second Millville Wellsville First Idaho Stake Bancroft Hatch | Kelly-Toponce Lund Idaho Falls Stake Idaho Falls Second Idaho Falls Fifth Idaho Falls Ninth Iona Lincoln Inglewood Stake Centinella Inglewood Lawndale Lennox Redondo Torrance Westchester Juab Stake Nephi Third EnrollSubscriptions ment 51 19 4 No. 56 38 9 13 Pet. 110 200 225 163 88 76 76 78 101 133 113 100 117 122 109 105 132 108 119 93 126 102 129 122 108 140 80 Magazine Representative Margaret E. Dahl Mary Conan Bertie Hyde Vela Hawkins Ann Anderson Merle Jenson Ethel Jones Jennie S. Gilbert Grace Michelsen Rosa Rindlesbaker Margaret Hebdon Edna Darlington Ila Stoddard Lydia M. Clark Estelle Salisbury Ellen Cannon Mrs. Clifford M. Scoresby Amy Hansen Maurine B. Campbell Afton Broberg Dora M. Benfer Irene White Josephine K. Bullock Marie B. Harden _ Hortense B. Smith Bernice Chapman May B. Petty Relief Society Lethbridge First Macleod Orton Picture Butte Stavely Brooks Branch Burdett Branch Champion Branch Liberty Stake Harvard Liberty North Second South Second Third Eighth Ninth Logan Stake College Young Long Beach Stake Compton First Compton Second. Long Beach First Long Beach Second Long Beach Fourth Long Beach Sixth Lynwood San Pedro Wilmington Los Angeles Stake Adams Arlington Beverly Hills EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 91 14 18 37 12 12% 14 16 Pet. 106 200 100 93 100 96 117 114 106 90 113 106 108 110 118 101 82 85 Magazine Representative Mabel Pizzey Vivian K. Faulkes Lillie T. Derricott Lueille Karrin Ida L. Rodgers Deleen Eveson Claire Ashton Carolyn Davies Lila B. Pressler Alvida Nelson Alice Russell Thelma B. Nielsen Mae Thomson Rachel Garff Katherine McOmie Myrtle Robison Nettie Abrams Wanda Olsen Ethel Spongberg Mildred Moon Annie Anderson Elese Taylor Geraldine Klaeger Mary McKinney Louisa Rich Marie DeSpain Ruth Schoharff Edith Harris Rebecca Rowe Velma Shirley Mary B. Stokes Nell C. Frame 328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 Juarez Stake Dublan Juarez Kanab Stake Alton Glendale Moccasin Mt. Carmel Orderville Kolob: Stake Mapleton Springville First Springville Second Springville Third Springville Fifth Springville Sixth Springville Eighth Springville Ninth Lakeview Stake Clinton Hooper First Kanesville Lake View Riverdale Lehi Stake Lehi First Lehi Second Lehi Third. Lehi Fourth Lehi Fifth Lethbridge Stake Calgary First Claresholm Diamond City 58214 78 57 106 30 88 22 85 Melvina Jones Bertha Shupe Nellie Heaton Esther W. Heaton Sarah E. Black Nora M. Heaton Mina Gardner Hester P. Heaton Ivy C. Anderson Ardilla Perry Addie Underwood Eudora Jensen Maude Christensen Venna A. Reese Sara R. Hyde Alice Wilmott Ellen Larson Beth McEntire Ivy Johnston Manita Suitor Clara Fletcher Lyma B. Cook Pearl Champneys Hazel May Bone Hazel May Bone Edna Loveridge Esther Jones Marvel Peterson Francis Comer Emily Anderson Helen Faulkner Luella Rice. Esther Wilcox Hollywood La Brea Wilshire Lost River Stake Challis Lemhi Leslie. Salmon First Salmon Second Leadore Branch Lyman Stake Lyman Manila Mountain View Rock Springs First Superior Farson Branch Rawlins Branch Malad Stake Cherry Creek Holbrook | Malad First Malad Second Malad Third Pleasant View St. John Samaria Maricopa Stake Mesa First Mesa Fourth Mesa Sixth Mesa Tenth Pine Tempe 104 111 60 87 81 372 Charlotte O'Connor Marie E. Jensen Evelyn Anderson HONOR ROLL Mabel Howell Eunice Hartvigson Ruth T. Olsen Lucy Guyaz Mrs. De Leath Rice Marian Fletcher Hertha Hofer Viola Rollins Etheleen Twitchell Cora Hamblin Anne M. Bluemel Martha Rock Lenora S. Wright, Pres. Lucile G. Butterfield Mary B. Bush Ruby H. Lundburg Evelyn Nalder Pearl W. Thomas Beth B. Facer Helen H. Thomas Beth C. Davis Anna Lyle M. Jones Verla Hill Lola O. Turley Caroline J. Warner Freda Allred Mathonia Magnusson Thora Hamblin Chloe Randall Ww Hettie Rae Wilbur S Relief Society Mesa Stake Alma Chandler Gilbert Mesa Fifth Mesa Seventh Mesa Ninth Queen Creek Casa Grande Branch Coolidge Branch Hayden Branch Superior Branch Millard Stake Fillmore Second Flowell -Holden Millcreek Stake Millcreek First Millcreek Second Millereek Third Valley Center First Winder Minidoka Stake Acequia Emerson Hazelton Heyburn Second Paul Rupert First Rupert Second Rupert Third Hunt Branch EnrollSubscriptions ment 876 81 78 49 158 No. 752 Pet. 86 Magazine Representative Lola White Isabelle Harris Edith Eyring Jewel Clement Rachel Nichols Anita Atwood June Ellsworth Martha Tenney Irene Herbert Rhoda Langford Mrs. Chester Pratt Josephine Farley Claris C. Peterson Rose Christensen Margaret Jackson Ethel A. Smith Catharina Van Leeuwen Ada Toone Edna Harvey Beauton Lenfestey Hilda Van Beekum. Alene Summers Ella Harrison Louie Mae Mecham Delilah J. Wickham Mary Wilcox Verda Platt Maybell Stevenson ° Emma Garrett Eva O. Lowder Ardell Hooper Relief Society Mt. Graham Stake Duncan El Paso Second Franklin Layton Second Lordsburg Safford Solomonville Upper Valley Virden Animas Branch Las Cruces Branch Mt. Jordan Stake Crescent — Draper First Draper Second Sandy Fourth Mount Logan Stake Logan Thirteenth River Heights Mount Ogden Stake Highland Ogden Twenty-third Ogden Twenty-fourth Ogden Thirty-third Murray Stake Grant Murray First Murray Second Murray Fourth Murray Fifth Murray Sixth Nampa Stake Caldwell EnrollSubscriptions Pet. Ment No. 85 106 70 100 844 87 114 126 147 100 564 88 101 100 = 85 63 102 49 107 67 106 75 90 583% 111 56 = 85 Magazine Representative Myrtle P. Tenney Jennie Johnson Ruby S. Brown Marie Goodman Clara Nelson Ruth B. Barnes Itha Booth Annie B. Larson Caroline B. McDonald Emma J. Lines Armita G. Richins Margene B. Becar Bertha S. Powell Ellen Mickelsen Alice W. Stay Loe E. Gordan LaPreal Morris Emily H. Anderson Rose Hansen Martha M. Tolman Rita Williamsen Ardella Nichols Bessie Adam Martena Leishman Mildred W. Bailey Blanche Bradford Lucille Jones Eloise Baker Faye Eustance Mary Ann Jensen Fawn Noren Isabell Svedin Mrs. G. M. Garner 330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 Moapa Stake Boulder City Bunkerville Charleston Henderson Kingman Las Vegas First Las Vegas Second Las Vegas Third Littlefield Logandale Mesquite Overton Montpelier Stake Bern Cokeville Geneva Montpelier First Nounan Raymond Wardboro 703 Monument Park Stake 365 Beacon Hillside Monument Park Moon Lake Stake Boneta Mount Emmons Mt. Home Morgan Stake Peterson Slide Moroni Stake Moroni West 63 791 81 Florence A. Johnson Lu Ella Cowan Charma Stout Dorothy D. Goshen Mrs. J. A. Tweedie | Minnie E. Stowell Belle Hall Loreta L. Monson Lucile Pein Vinda Reber Nola Hanning Nelda Houston Erma Earl Myrtle Steckler Ella Hunsaker Barbara T. Tueller Marie Glauser Mary Minnig Eleaner Saxton Genevieve Kunz Agnes M. Vincent Rose Rasmussen Ethel Flynn Nellie Pinney Jennie Brotherson Elmira Snow Wilma Thayne Althea Carrigan Alta Creager Mrs. Lynn F. Peterson Homedale Kuna Melba Nampa First Nampa Second Nampa Third Nampa Fourth Black Canyon Branch Marsing Branch Star Branch Nebo Stake Park Payson Third Spring Lake West } Nevada Stake Lund Ruth. New York Stake East Orange Manhattan Queens Uniondale Westchester Branch North Box Elder Stake 585 Bear River Brigham Third Brigham Fourth Brigham Seventh Brigham Eighth Corinne Harper Honeyville North Carbon Stake Helper Storrs Scofield Branch 76 Mary Leavitt Ida Hatch Rita Bradshaw Blanch Woolard Mrs. Alvin Hunter Anniemay Zesiger Hanna Castaneto Fern Bowden Ruth Davis Emily Kent Ethel T. Hiatt Clara Orton Maxine Moore Laurel Loveless Edith Reid Maud Mifflen Viola W. Fulton Erika Anderson Margaret E. Heidt Grace Miller Anna Koenig Erna Soller Christina N. Bott Lorena Waddoups Fern Channell Geneva F. Wright LaVina Hansen LaVinia Clark Meltrude A. Nelson Edith Baty Daisy Duke Estella Gale Florence I. Anderson Sarah Donaldson HONOR ROLL w 31 Relief Society North Davis Stake Clearfield First Clearfield Second Layton First Layton Fourth Syracuse No. Idaho Falls Stake Coltman Idaho Falls First Idaho Falls Fourth Idaho Falls Seventh Osgood Ucon North Jordan Stake Bennion Granger First Granger Second Granger Third Redwood Taylorsville First Taylorsville Second Kearns Branch North Rexburg Stake Hibbard Newdale Plano. Rexburg First Salem Sugar Teton EnrollSubscriptions Pet. Ment 829 117 52 67 106 106 594 No. 669 105 55 51 106 102 663 78 116 81 90 106 | 76 100 96 Magazine Representative Mrs. Graydon Holt Elsie Bennett Mary Banz Dorsey Hodgson Grace R. Forbes Iva Jensen Janet L. Landon Marion Judd Elizabeth Elg Anna Christofferson Emma Jensen Maurine Freeman Elva Andrus Elthura Mackay Blanche Parker Martha M. Parr Louise Scott Malinda H. Christensen Louisa Skog | Loretta Foote Rosalma Van Buskirk Frances D. Fish Arvilla Parkinson Mary Saurey Zola Allen Arvilla Parkinson Eva Summers Afton Anderson Irene R. Pincock Reva Clark Relief Society Ogden Stake Eden Huntsville Liberty Ogden Ogden Ogden Ogden Fourth Sixth Thirteenth Twentieth Ogden Thirtieth Ogden Thirty-first Oneida Stake Banida Dayton Glencoe Glendale Mink Creek Oxford Preston Third Preston Fourth Preston Seventh Treasureton Winder Oquirrh Stake Garfield First Garfield Second Hercules Magna Pleasant Green Spencer Orem Stake Beverly Geneva Orem First Timp View EnrollSubscriptions Pct. Ment No. 755 770 102 94 91 Magazine Representative Chloe F. Summerill | Catherine Stallings Ella Allen Fern B. Clark Theo Johansen Elizabeth Thompson Ramona P. Snow Nanna Christiansen Madge Crawford Ada Egginton Leona P. Winger Ada Bell Pearl Beutler Mary B. Larsen Eulalia W. Larsen Della Keller Clara Olson Amy S. Kern Anna F. Palmer Verneta Larson Vera Atkinson Leona P. Winger Beatrice W. Dimond Zelma Payne Earlean McGee Mary Coe Izella Jeppson Leatrus Turner Florence Reid Alice Harris Eva Hulet Thelma Benson Eliza Anderson Donna Pullman 332 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 North Sanpete Stake Fairview South Milburn Mt. Pleasant Third Mountainville Spring City North Sevier Stake Aurora Vermillion North Weber Stake Ogden Third Ogden Tenth Ogden Sixteenth Taylor Warren West Warren West Weber C Wilson Nyssa Stake Nyssa First Nyssa Second Ontario Owyhee Parma Vale Oakland Stake Alameda Castro Valley Dimond Elmhurst Livermore Maxwell Park San Leandro Araminta Clement Vida S. Graham Lucille R. Seely Vera Shelley Bergetta Jensen Maxiene M. Curtis May Gledhill Alta M. Goble Martha M. Burnett Eliza M. Kerr Armenta S. Malan Melba P. Favero Libbie Neilsen Lorraine Barron Rene McLean Sarah H. Holmes Mae A. Boyer Lynette Anderson Ardath H. Baker Wanda Mortimer Edna Hartley Lelia Bartshe Avis Belnap Mary L. Stewart LaVina H. McRae Della Eck Lila F. Graham Francina De Vries Sylvia Wardell Geraldine Compton Agnes M. Nelson Vineyard Windsor Palmyra Stake Lake Shore Leland Palmyra Salem Spanish Fork Second Spanish Fork Third Spanish Fork Fourth Birdseye Branch Thistle Branch Palo Alto Stake Burlingame Naglee Park Redwood City San Jose San Mateo Panguitch Stake Hatch Henrieville Park Stake Duncan Emigration First Tenth Thirty-first Princeton Webster Parowan Stake Enoch Paragonah Parowan First Parowan Second 45% 106 23% 76 704% 91 82 117 -Berniece | Rigtrup Mae Schroder Cora Hooley Mrs. Frank Sorensen HONOR ROLL Kathryn I. Huff Tressa Sorensen Dora H. Cloward Lucy L. Hill Mildred Houston Gladys Christmas Rachel Spencer Ethel Anderson Sarah Avery Iris Pickering Eliza Horsfield Aileen Weaver Maud L. West Harriet 8S. Zeitschel Effie J. Deuel Virginia Johnson Lillie S. Schricker Winifred Poulter La Vern Hanks Clara Dittman Lamecia Pierce Geneva A. Odle Afton Thomas Gertrude M. Hobson. Betty M. Sorenson Cora Murie Erma Lamoreaux Mildred Gilger Mary Stubbs 333 Relief Society Parowan Third Summit Pasadena Stake Baldwin Park East Pasadena El Monte Las Flores Monrovia North El Monte Pasadena South Pasadena Phoenix Stake Capitol Glendale Phoenix First Phoenix Second Phoenix Third Phoenix Fourth Phoenix Fifth Phoenix Sixth Phoenix Seventh Scottsdale Buckeye Branch Sunnyslope Branch Pioneer Stake Cannon Edison Glendale Park First Glendale Park Second Jordan Park Riverview Twenty-fifth Thirty-second Thirty-fifth EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 84 73 87 26 26 100 116 129 105 130 117 131 102 108 100 128 88 114% 130 89 70 79: 99 89 90 27 837 "137 53 538 100 Magazine Representative Minnie -Orton Lucy Green Blanche Calvert Ardella Hackford Mabrye Phillips Louise Mariger Sydona Raleigh Letitia Meyers Sarah Anderson Clara Toone Mamie Gerwin Florence M. Broberg Edna Smith Julia S. Kremer Alta Mathews Nancy Lou Harbison Ann Pomeroy Nora L. Johnson Pauline Judd Ruby Biggs Minerva B. Gillette Cornelia Worthen Mrs. H. C. Gable Frances M. Hansen Mary Jacobs Lillian Van Leuven Joyce Ferguson Elna Buehn Dena Lund Marie Taylor Elizabeth S. Warren Hildred E. Cook Anna Albertsen Edith Murray Relief Society Moulton Sublett Yost Reno Stake ~ Carson City Hawthorne Lovelock Portola Sparks West Susanville Westwood Rexburg Stake Archer ~ Burton Independence Lyman Rexburg Second Rexburg Third Rexburg Fourth Richland Stake Richland First Sunnyside Toppenish Walla Walla Yakima Rigby Stake Annis Grant Hamer Lewisville Menan First Menan Second Rigby First EnrollSubscriptions Pet. Ment 10 12 14 No. 10 12 12 100 100 Magazine Representative Julia Clark Pearl A. Hall Viola Tracey Louise L. Bell Ruth M. Meacham Ada Jensen Erma Adams Leah D. Williams Florence B. Nelson Genet Johnson Mary Young Geraldine B. Johnson Norah Grover Leone Beattie Margaret Barber Jessie Moulton Maud Taylor Wanda Hunziker Sibyle Smith Carol Powell Verna Hoyt Agnes B. Ferguson Irene D. Harrison Hannah Crimin Sara Simmons Jeanette Browning Ruby Pinnock Amelia Smuin Dora Armstrong Emily Hart Erma Gunderson 'Audra Peterson 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 Pocatello Stake Fort Hall Inkom Pocatello Second Pocatello Fourth Pocatello Sixth Pocatello Seventh Pocatello Eighth Pocatello Twelfth Pocatello Thirteenth Pocatello Fourteenth Pocatello Fifteenth Portland Stake Colonial Heights Laurelhurst Moreland University Park Portneuf Stake Arimo Cambridge Downey Garden Creek Lava Hot Springs McCammon Swan Lake Virginia Provo Stake Manavu Provo First Provo Fifth Provo Seventh Provo Tenth Provo Sixteenth Raft River Stake Malta 781 864 24 Mrs. R. M. Drake Zella Hall Ada Hall Helga H. Pugmire Esther W. Johnson Eva B. Barrow Mae W. Brown Mrs. E. J. Davis Mrs. E. S. Swisher Mrs. Florest Dawson Erma Summers Beth Barlow, Sec. Delores Zabell Celia Cox Hattie W. Carlson Elizabeth Stevenson Ada L. Parris Merle Tippets Vella Bloxham Margaret Yearsley Ethel Henderson Emma Roswell Wynona M. Glass Marie Henderson Marion Brady Flora Buggert Flora Buggert Elizabeth A. Phillips Fanny S. Whimpey Mary Josie Eva Thorsen Edyth R. Maxfield Alice O. Neddo Alice O. Neddo Rigby Fourth Roberts Terreton Beaver Creek Branch Riverside Stake Center Riverside Roosevelt Stake Ballard Bennett Roosevelt Second Whiterocks Sacramento Stake Arcade Carmichael Fair Oaks Roseville Sacramento First Sacramento Second Sacramento Third Sacramento Fourth Woodland Auburn Branch Placerville Branch Spanish Branch St. George Stake Central Gunlock Ivins Leeds Mt. Trumbull St. George First St. George Third St. George Fourth St. George Fifth Ann Nielsen Ruth Marriott Maurine Peterson Leeola N. Harmon HONOR ROLL Pearl F. Jones Hillevi Daniels Amanda M. Henrie Myrtle Winn Joyce Bolton Adella Rowley Pearl Walkup Martha V. Gattiker Rose R. Baldwin Myrle Bolles Elsie J. Green Nida B. Morey Margherita Singleton Laverna B. Lewis Minnie A. Du Frain Belva Cayocca Vendla Gordon Alice W. Ursenbach Goldy T. Baker Rumaldita Martinez Agnes S. Pickett Lucyle Bracken Maybell Hunt Fern M. Hafen Etta M. Mariger Rebecca Bundy Edna Cunningham Ella B. Neilson Vilate Leavitt Alma Spendlove w uw UW Relief Society St. George Sixth Santa Clara Veyo St. Johns Stake Alpine: Eagar Gallup Lund Nutrioso St. Johns St. Joseph Stake Bryce Central Eden Ft. Thomas Globe Miami Pima Thatcher Salt Lake Stake Capitol Hill Fourteenth Nineteenth Twenty-second Twenty-third San Bernardino Stake Arlington Colton Hemet Ontario ' Pomona Redlands Riverside EnrollSubscriptions Pct. Ment -99 60 12 No. 79 45 16, Magazine Representative Emma C. Abbott Selina Hafen Harriet B. Chadburn Kathlyn A. Brown Jessie Jepson Agnes M. Lund Juanita Jones Clara B: Laney Thelma Mangum Geneva Greer Nira P. Lee Nellie Dixon Winnie Smith Viola Colvin Hazel B. Bryce Lorraine B. Smith Ella Sims Zela McBride Sarah Hales Clara C. Neeley Mary L. Fawcett Emma R. Jacobs'. Marie M. Hardwick Alma Laxman Clara Oveson Evelyn W. Heath Pearl Hudkins Artie J. Davis Reva Kribs Ivie Thompson. Elizabeth J. Apgood Barbara Christensen Cornelia Jacobson Relief Society Ione Branch Lodi Branch Manteca Branch San Juan Stake Blanding Grayson Moab Monticello Lockerby Branch San Luis Stake Alamosa La Jara Manassa Romeo Santa Barbara Stake Ojai Paso Robles San Luis Obispo Santa Barbara Santa Maria Ventura. Lompoc Branch Santa Monica Stake Brentwood La Cienega Mar Vista Santa Monica Westdale Santaquin-Tintic Stake Goshen Elberta Branch EnrollSubscriptions Pct. Ment 19 10 18 No. 24 27 20 126 270 111 Magazine Representative Theodora R. Thomas Wilma McCombs Helen Gillingwater Vivian W. Redd Neta Young Volate Shumway Elma Dalton Lewie Christensen Maxine Johnson Opal McDaniel Opal McDaniel Florence Knight Pauline Holmes Opal Nance Elsie N. Buell Zelpha P. Marengo Leah P. Godfrey Eileen Godbey Hartman Frances Olsen Audra Faris: Nydia R. Hansen Lillie K. Whitehead Frances D. Kolarik Eva L. Quigley Sylvia N. Petersen Madonna Wallace Agnes M. Nelson Elaine Kirk Harriet E. Barney 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 San Bernardino Ist San Bernardino 2d Victorville Elsinore Branch Mira Loma Branch Perris Branch Yacaipa Branch San Diego Stake Fairmount Hillerest La Mesa National City North Park San Fernando Stake Burbank New Hall North Hollywood Reseda San Fernando Sherman Oaks Van Nuys San Francisco Stake Balboa Mission San Francisco San Rafael Sunset San Joaquin Stake Modesto Oakdale Stockton First Stockton Second Tracy Turlock Brentwood Branch Laura Lee Hilliker Sue Powell Savoy Lewis lillian Pollan Ruth Bates Priscilla M. Smuin Sible Reagan Thora Holgren Verda Ward Sarah Bodily Della Campbell Allagonda Lund Josephine Gallacher Helen K. Yaple Jane Reynolds 'Amy Haws, Pres. Elizabeth Jacobs Vera Snow Edith Knapp Zilpha Nowlin Sue Bartlett Josephine T. Danford Beatrice Simister Gladys W. Parker Anna Jensen Mary E. Spencer Florence Phillips Wealtha Mendenhall Iva Allen Pearl Ward Elva Wolfenbarger Ella J. Hart Sarah S. Dana Mary U. Tiffany Alice Lewis Santa Rosa Stake Napa Santa Rosa Ukiah Fairfield Branch Fort Bragg Branch Lakeport Branch Petaluma Branch Sebastopol Branch Willits Branch Seattle Stake Bellingham Bremerton Everett Olympia Renton Seattle First Seattle Second — Seattle Third Seattle Fourth Seattle Sixth Shelton Tacoma First Tacoma Second Tacoma Third Arlington Branch Port Orchard Branch Sevier Stake Glenwood Greenwich Koosharem Richfield First Richfield Second Richfield Third Richfield Fourth Richfield Fifth Richfield Sixth 53 45 357 312% 88 Eva Southwick Elizabeth N. Daniel Judith Lindelof Jessie B. Keeley Dorothy Johnsen Gladys M. Hendricke Delores B. McCoy Virginia Terribilin Kate Hardisty Eva Southwick Chelta D. Brown Ella M. Petrie Cleo M. Carlsen Rhoda McCarroll Dona Williams Mabel McKilrath Lucile G. Henrie Hilda A. Shomaker Arleta Calkins Charlotte Myler Mary B. Glenn Bernadene Ramin Devone Johnson Wilma E. Brechbiel Irene Howell — Una Carlson Myra Ennis Beth V. Anderson Lois Sorenson _ Alta V. Sorenson Etta Crawford Myrtle Brown Hattie Bean Pearl Farnsworth Rozella Hawley Jane Y. Pollett Luceal Kramer HONOR ROLL 337 Relief Society Sigurd Venice Sharon Stake Crest View Edgemont Grand View Hill Crest Lake View Lineoln Oak Hills Pleasant View Timpanogos Shelley Stake Basalt Firth Goshen Jameston Kimball Shelley First Shelley Second Shelley Third Taylor Woodville Smithfield Stake Smithfield First Smithfield Third Smithfield Fourth Snowflake Stake Claysprings Flagstaff Joseph City Pinedale Snowflake ca EnrollSubscriptions ment 37 45 No. 37 53 Pet. 100 118 110 100 107 142 107 108 128 104 103 100 Magazine Representative Emily M. Nebeker Jennie Cowley Edna M. Hansen Dorothy Carter Florence G. Dalton Mary Stephenson Zeda Emmons Minnie Nuttall Ann Millett Camellia T. Denys Ruth C. Meldrum Amartda Bigelow Merle Young Thelma Hoskins Florence Hanny Ellen Dye Viola Hillman Florence E. Gifford Lottie Robinson Mery! Hamilton Arita Van Eps Pearl Clark Edna Kotter Jessie Littledike Cora W. Aston Rebecea P. Larson Elizabeth S. Baldwin Aurela Plumb Martha W. Thomas Gladys McLaws Jane M. Jackson Marge Hunt Relief Society So. Idaho Falls Stake 458 Ammon 121 Idaho Falls Third 110 Idaho Falls Sixth 128 Idaho Falls Eighth 99 No. 487 127 127 133 100 So. Los Angeles Stake 924 1698 Downey 114 Grant 60 Huntington Park 82 Manchester 119 Matthews Maywood Miramonte 55 South Gate Vermont 76 Walnut Park 83 South Ogden Stake 759 Ogden Fourteenth 103 Ogden Eighteenth 91 Ogden Twenty-sixth 106 Ogden Twenty-seventh 57 Ogden Twenty-eighth 126 Ogden Thirty-fourth 90 South Weber 50 Uintah 44 South Salt Lake Stake 615 Burton. 83 Central Park 87 Eldredge 87 Granite Park 63 Haven 76 North Central Park 55 South Gate 170 123 173 153 190 164 128 299 155 143 94 EnrollSubscriptions ment Pct. 106 105 115 104 101 184 149 205 211 129 165 155 233 262 204 172 96 105 82 119 133 90 99 78 77 103 134 101 84 75 118 171 101% 100 Magazine Representative Valeria Blatter Melvina Reed Azilea Johnson Wanda Johnson Genevieve Nichols Nancy Rupp Priscilla Morris Alice Taylor Oralie Wilkinson Ruth Minton Bertha Milius Avilda Kowalski ~ Jennie Stauffer Evelyn Ferrera Violet Tripp Nellie Hunter Loretta Cramer Addie T. Nelson Lura C. Wright Ellen N. Brewer Lucille Cook Margaret Williams Luella Brown Venice Poll Elizabeth Fernelius Hedy T. Davies Martha Reinhold Peggy Oliver Irene Urry La Rue Kevern Anne Anderson Evely Harrison Lillian Woolsie 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 Winslow 64 Woodruff 24 Linden Branch 6 McNary Branch 18 South Bear River Stake 537 Deweyville 51 Elwood 43 Penrose 20 Promontory 18 Tremonton First | 70 Tremonton Second 91 Tremonton Third 63 Tremonton. Fourth 88 South Box Elder Stake 607 Brigham City First 107 Brigham City Second 106 Brigham City Fifth 100 Brigham City Sixth 91 Mantua 49 Perry 43 Willard South Carolina Stake Charleston a Columbia 50 Gaffney Za Hartsville a Spartanburg 21 Augusta Branch 10 Sumpter Branch 16 South Davis Stake 949 Bountiful First vil Bountiful Third 84 Bountiful Sixth 90 West Bountiful 115 69 89 94 102 139 102 105 111 Ruby McHood Lorena Smithson Grace Wilson Laura B. Willis Eva B. Hansen Jennie Fryer Janusine Peterson Lena Jensen Doris W. Flint, Sec. Leah Deakin Hazel Ranson Lillian Barfurs Eliza Woodruff Edith E. Baddley Artie Sessions Pearl Olsen Myrtle Clifford Jayne W. Bergstrom Verle N. Anderson Ruth G. Hirschi Dee Rae Christensen Mary R. Behre Daisy Neeley Tla Black Gladys Watson Elizabeth Noblin LaVerne Holley Katherine M. Griffin Myrtle B. Hatch Dina M. Hansen Edith C. Clay Anna K. Bangerter Orla P. Hillhouse South Sanpete Stake Ephraim North Manti South Sterling South Sevier Stake Annabella Central Joseph Marysvale Monroe South Sevier South Summit Stake Kamas Marion Peoa Woodland Southrn. Arizona Stake 447 Douglas St. David Tucson First Tucson Second Tucson Third Whitewater Willcox Spokane Stake Dishman North Spokane Pullman Sandpoint Coeur d'Alene Branch Colville Branch Star Valley Stake Fairview Freedom 52 739 553% 54 80 86 102 76 122 106 82 75 100 92 Dora Sparks Sarah D. Anderson Janet J. Otten Sylvia Davis Betty G. Hansen Zina Parker Annie Burr Ina Naser Lillian Bridges Ruth Huff Vinnie Leonard Melba Beal Evelyn Stembridge Francell Gines Edna B. Allred Edna L. Huish Florence Bateman Louisa Done Mrs. A. A. Stephens Rowena Holladay Anna Porter Lenore Duncan Vadus Marx Verna D. Edwards Ruth E. Newport Phyllis C. Smith Wilma M. Marshall Emma Masten Ressa Wood, Pres. Ada Hillyard Maud Ransenberg Alice Ivie HONOR ROLL 339 Relief Society Grover Thayne Sugar House Stake Bryan Emerson Hawthorne Marlborough Richards Sugar House Summit Stake Coalville Hoytsville Upton Taylor Stake Magrath First Magrath Second Raymond First Raymond Second Raymond Third Raymond Fourth Stirling Welling Coutts Branch Tyrells Lake Branch Warner Branch Wrentham Branch Temple View Stake Arbor McKinley Sixth-Seventh Teton Stake Bates EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 52 63 434 26 44 85 5384 374% 86 27 104 Magazine Representative Mary S. Hepworth Martha McKim Alta Whitehead Catherine. Sipkema Katie Fairbanks Mayme Stevens Gladys Isaacson Vera Schmitt Ruth Marley Elizabeth Simister Blanche Crittenden Ethel Blonquist Loreen Brewerton Maysie Toomer Amy Fossey, Sec. Alice Shaw Annie Larsen Mrs. E. J. Anderson Ruby Holland Elsie Perrett Roberta Smith Emily Collett 'Mary Hamling Etta Ellingson Eva Siewert Alida W. Nielsen Doris Wilks - Olive Dixon Helen Hemmingway Ruby F. Christiansen Julia J. Riplinger Relief Society Twin Falls Second Twin Falls Third Twin Falls Fourth Castleford Branch Filer Branch Uintah Stake Ashley Davis Glines Jensen Lapoint Maeser First Maeser Second Naples Tridell Vernal First Vernal Second Vernal Third Bonanza Branch Rangely Branch Union Stake Baker Enterprise Imbler-Elgin La Grande First La Grande Second Pendleton Union Wallowa University Stake Eleventh West Eleventh Twelfth EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. 80 100 454% 94 58 75 50 "83 119 103 Magazine Representative Mable M. Judd Vera Holland Bertha Bolton Velma Allred Willa Hepworth Elsie M. Palmer Elva Erickson Idella Smuin Effie Holfeltz Amelia Ainge Lillie Bigelow Marie Johnson Edna Pope Eva Haws Virgie Behrman Mrs. James Chivers Pearl D. Winder Alice O. Billings Aloah Vietti Reva Watkins Leona M. See. Sadie E. Shelton Amyrue Gent Blanche Quebbeman Lydia Cantrell Leona M. See Lenora Blanchard Erma W. Badger Amy Lou Werst Etta Cowles Ida M. Carlson Irma Piercy Gertrude Russell 346 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 Cache Cedron Chapin Clawson Driggs First Driggs Second Jackson Pratt Victor Timpanogos Stake Grove Lindon Manila Pleasant Grove First Pleasant Grove 2d Pleasant Grove 3d Tooele Stake Lake View Stockton Tooele First Tooele Second Tooele Fourth Tooele Fifth Tooele Sixth Tooele Seventh Tooele Eighth Tooele Ninth Vernon Deseret Branch East Tod Park Branch Twin Falls Stake Buhl First Buhl Second Kimberly Murtaugh 9 Edna Harris Leatha Kunz Annie Stone Marie Little Vilda H. Ellis Thelma Jackson Ila Tanner Vada Green Edith F. Humble Ora W. Thorne Fern Smith Ella Smith Mrs. B. N. Allen Ethel Fenton Alice Deveraux Vern Young Jennie A. Wallin Georgia Droubay Elva Benson Bessie S. Kemp Leona Hitesman Elsie Curry Ruby Jordan La Dean Long Annie Gollaher Mary McKellar Beth Paystrup Bessie Anderson Mary Carson Thelma Miller Ruth Lanning Johanna Jensen Margaret Rosencrantz Betty C. Holmquist Geneva Moyes 'Provo Third Thirteenth 93 Stadium Village Branch 62 Utah Stake 447 Park 54 Provo Fourth 63 Provo Sixth 57 Provo Fourteenth 49 University 87 Uvada Stake Panaca AT. Pioche 52 Wasatch Stake Center 30 Charleston 38 Daniel. Fal Heber First Heber Second Heber Third 73 Heber Fourth 719 Midway First 65 Midway Second 62 Wallsburg 35 Washington Stake Arlington. 86 Baltimore 54 Chevy Chase 81 Washington 63 Wayne Stake Fremont 37 Hanksville 14 Loa sha Thurber 72 115% 124 59 408 56 117 53 64 51 67 301 56 121 95 C Emma Larsen Gloria Pearce ' Bertha Memmott Anna J. Anderson Esther Hurst Amme §. Ridge Jane B. Evans. Nellie M. Diamond Leda Law HONOR ROLL Isadora Price Isadora Price Hertha Kroencke Mildred Lawrence Blanche Muir Zina Ritchie Ina Orgill La Preal Knight Ardith Young Margaret C. Callister Verna Hicken. La Neva Averett Margarett C. Kelly Ethel Batty - Mary E. Stimpson Velma H. Allred Carma C. Martin Ruth Rasband Jean Liljenquist Delilah Albrecht Ethel Noyes Ilene Van Dyke on Tamor Christensen = Relief Society Stake First Second Eleventh Nineteenth Weber Ogden Ogden Ogden Ogden Ogden EnrollSubscriptions ment 681 111 102 101 86 Twenty-second 176 Washington Terrace Ist 38 Washington Terrace 2d 30 Weiser Stake Emmett First Letha. New Plymouth Payette Weiser Cascade Branch Midvale Branch Wells Stake Belvedere Ivins McKay Waterloo Whittier West Jordan Stake Bingham Bluffdale Copperton Herriman Riverton First Riverton Second South Jordan West Jordan First West Jordan Second 410 64 62 44 38 80 17 No. 572 87 76 104 79 16 38 30 388 55 73 53 41 88 21 Pet. Magazine Representative Myr! S. Stewart Robena Harris Rosanna Walker Sadie Masters Elva Craynor Ida M. Cook Verda Walker Donna Sandberg Fannie Chandler Bertha Tolman Ann Jensen Della Morrison Rozella M. Sinclair Clarmond Rice | Clara McMurdie Edna L. Fuch Mabel C. Wood Grace Foxley Della Riley Anna Sund Fern Brown Lucille Nebeker Sarah Henderson Ethel Jones Pearl Kylen Phebe Johnson Agnes Dansie Eliza Reynolds Evelyn Beckstead Elsie J. Merrill Clara E. Beckstead Mrs. Leo V. Gardner Relief Society Kirtland Cortez Branch Durango Branch Kline Branch Zion Park Stake Hurricane North Hurricane South Rockville Toquerville MISSIONS Australian Mission Bankstown Enmore Glen Huon Hurtsville Melbourne Nambour British Mission Cheltenham Ipswich Oldham St. Albans Wolverhampton California Mission Arizona Chino Valley Prescott Wickenburg EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pet. Magazine Representative Eva. Noel Annie Hinton Iva Ferguson Loretta Slade Lillian Roundy Louise P. Jepson Gwenivere White Mary H. DeMille Edith Klingonsmith Ruth Mackay Isabel Strachan Mae Clark Gladys E. Woolley Florence Wardingley Yvonne MacKay — A. R. Lyell Ellen Cotten-Betteridge Isobel Granger, Pres. E. Pearce Edith M. Henderson Beatrice Aver La Priel S. Bunker Josephine Allen Cleotha Johnson Mary Payne Fern Willis 342 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 West Pocatello Stake Pocatello First Pocatello Third Pocatello Ninth Pocatello Tenth Pocatello Eleventh West Utah Stake Pioneer Provo Second Provo Eleventh Rivergrove First Rivergrove Secon Sunset 'Wilford Stake Cummings Grandview Imperial Kenwood Valley View Wilford Woodruff Stake Evanston First Hilliard Yellowstone Stake Egin Bench Marysville St. Anthony First St. Anthony Third Twin Groves Wilford Kilgore Branch Young Stake Farmington First Jewett Reta C. Austin Emma Hurst Letha Stevenson Eva Richardson Flora Jensen Rhoda Dickerson Cleo L. Thatcher Harriet Bigler Margaret Gabbitas Leah Patton Eva Ricks Annie P. Tanner Lilie M. Campbell Martha W. Paulsen Leone Monroe Sarah K. Pearson Thora Hunter Helen M. Bateman Maud C. Graham Mary Caldwell May Townson Naomi Harris Laura Hillam Sarah Mason Marjorie Gunter Almina Johnson Irene Pettingill Nelle Bowen Clarissa Brown Elsa Jensen Zetta Brimhall Zetta Brimhall C. Mae Hunt Colorado River Needles Parker Imperial Valley Brawley El Centro Mount Whitney Barstow Bishop Independence Lone Pine Oak Creek Verde Valley Williams San Gorgonio Beaumont Indio Palm Springs South Coast Escondido Fallbrook Laguna Beach San Dieguito Vista Yuma Ajo Yuma Canadian Mission Bellville Brantford Chatham Oshawa Ottawa; St. Catherines Toronto Windsor Flora Swanson J. L. Neal Thelma E. Lunceford Irena Wadell Nadene Christiansen Addie Smith Minnie B. Conklin Luara Birmingham Blanche I. Clds Nina Linbeck Elizabeth A. Merwin Cherill Petersen Alice M. B. Muirhead Miriam C. Hale Mary K. McCray, Pres. Ruth M. Ainsworth Mae Kehlinbrink Fawn P. Wilcox HONOR ROLL. Elenora Camphuysen Edna M. Jones Lola Belnap Jennie G. Lewis Florence C. Reany Mary Larson Barbara McElmury Eva N. McGovern Ethel Vandervoort Gladys Meek | Mabel Barnwell Gretta Houston Eva E. Musson M. Ruth Neil M. H. Schulzke Allie Halstead 343 Relief Society No. Central Atlantic States Mission Goldsboro Kinston 11 Tarboro 11 North Carolina. Central 185 Charlotte 15 Colfax 20 Durham 11 Jackson Springs 8 Kannapolis 24 Roxboro 11 North Carolina East Hampstead 9 Jacksonville 8 New Bern 11 Wilmington 20 North Carolina North 39 Elizabeth City 15 Roanoke Rapids 6 North Carolina West Ashville 7 Virginia Central Danville 10 Hoges Store 12 Virginia East 88 Norfolk 29 Portsmouth 13 Virginia North 14 Charlottesville 14 Virginia West White Sulphur Springs 18 15 Caui=an States Mission 1011 852 Arkansas 50 El] Dorado 26 46 28 EnrollSubscriptions ment Pet. 84 92 108 Magazine Representative Estella Eubank, Pres. Evelyn Cartledge Verlia C. Young Mrs. L. F. Braddock Georgia Bennett Betty Thompson Mrs. A. D. Ennis Melba Coats Myrna Henderson Mary Shingleton Avanell Glade Mrs. P. H. Robinson Mrs. James Hollis Lorna H. McPherson Alma M. Jones ~- _ Sarah E. Israel Ocey W. Gauldin Sadie E. Parr Mabel H. Crouse Sarah I. Hill Katherine C. Cole Irene C. Dunn Katie Foster, Pres. Annie M. Ellsworth Nell Wiggins Ila Lovelace Relief Society Mountain View Poplar Bluff Southwest Missouri Bentonville Fayetteville Joplin Miami Pittsburg Siloam Springs Springfield West Kansas Dodge City Larned St. John Syracuse Ulysses West Oklahoma | Duncan Enid Oklahoma City Stillwater East Central States Mission Kentucky Central Bradfordsville Lexington Winchester Kentucky West Elkton Morgantown Tennessee East Knoxville Tennessee West Jackson Memphis EnrollSubscriptions ment 3 16 140 18 13 31 _ 18 No. Pct. 3 100 13 89 7 6 19 11 34 81 717 100 100 86 83 Magazine Representative Marion Cornett Alta Wright Lorene Tidlund Sarah C. Poar Deane B. Kitterman Juanita R. Shiveley Rhea Blessing Pearl Green Ollie L. Johnson Gladys Drummond Marie Moore Mary M. Shumard Elsa Webb Joan Jordan Helen Thornburgh Alta Dew Grace G. Cullimore Lettie Sadler Laura Jean Byrne Mary R. Thompson Clara V. Nelson Essie C. Morgeson Grace Wells Elizabeth Shrout Nettie Lee Hooper Geneva Childers Veda Travis Mrs. Harry Ross Tilda Davis 344 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 Hot Springs Little Rock Central Kansas Arkansas City Chanute Coffeyville East Wichita Hutchinson Junction City Parsons Salina East Oklahoma Bartlesville Eufaula Gore Henryetta Muskogee Seminole Tulsa Independence Armour Hills Claytonville Independence Knob Noster Leavenworth Northeast Rich Hill Riverview St. Joseph Sedalia Topeka Westport Missouri Columbia Jefferson City St. Louis Southeast Missouri Hayti 104 110 ht tt 103 i or) 02 00 00 CO COE 250 211 25 Lucretia B. Nadle Nell Wiggins Nellie Meador Donna E. White Edna F. West Betty Spears Nellie Meador Dorothy Clay Bird Corcoran Anna Belle Spencer Aileen Button Maryalice Stewart June Jones Opal L. Price Elza Mae Chisum Shirley Farmer Dorothy M. Boyd Jo Ann Cooper Mildred Wall Gertrude A. Pearson Naomi Nelson Ada A. Fridell Juanita Harris Margaret T. Beard Anna E. Bowen Stella Richards Louise King Thelma Higgins Margaret Courtney Grace Furnell Edith Kuhn Pauline Slight Evelyn Wood Fannie Edgell Bertha Ohsiek Pauline Britton West Virginia North 465 Franklin 11 Parkersburg 5 West Virginia South 116 Charleston 43 Eastern States Mission 618 Albany 14 Allentown 10 Bradford 6 Buffalo 18 Camden 14 Chester 7 Erie 15 Germantown 20 Gloversville 13 Johnstown vy Kingston 5 Monmouth 10 Monongahela 8 Niagara Falls 17 Oneonta 9 Palmyra 16 Philadelphia 35 Pittsburgh 28 Punxsuatawney 12 Reading 10 Rochester 18 Sunbury 8 Washington 12 Wilmington 14 York Great Lakes Mission Central Indiana Cambridge City 17 Columbus 19 Indianapolis North 34 Muncie 28 Alice B. Hartman Hillary Rymer Emma Atkinson Helen Beth Henricksen Beth Taylor Mary Boyer Helen M. Clark Louise C.. Winspear Marie M. Schroeder. Julia T. Brown Susie Christian Edith R. Viccellio Martha Milks Florence Fisher Olive G. Gray Alice B. Hansen HONOR ROLL Lillian McDonald Tessa M. Udy Aseita Ward Dora Ferguson Florence B. Bennett Virginia Birtcher Orphis M. Mercer Pearl D. Yeager Hazel Hicks Mary Grace Gleason Virginia Danley Beatrice C. Stirland Sylvia E. Palsgrove Ella C. Burton Ellen R. Clayton Bertha Lilly Alice King Alice Coffey Florence E. Hoskins & 3 Relief Society North Indiana Fort Wayne South Bend South Indiana Bloomington East Michigan Toledo West Michigan Battle Creek Flint Grand Rapids Jackson Kalamazoo Lansing Muskegon Saginaw Central Ohio Columbus Dayton — Lima Springfield North Ohio Alliance Canton Cleveland Warren South Ohio Cincinnati Middletown New England Mission Amherst Bangor ' Burlington Cambridge Farmington EnrollSubscriptions ment 23 11 12 316 13 No. 28 11 10 Pet. 122 100 83 Magazine Representative Elsie L. Martin Norma Weinbrenner Fannie S. Pate Florence M. Schultz Sophia B. Gordon Bernice Confer Alfrild Tracy Jannette Harston Norma E. Wilson Jean Anderson Emma Enwald Albertine Hiltz Lucile Tate Beatrice F. Nielsen Emma Wolfe Nellie A. Allen Wanda P. Puckett Mrs. Floyd B. Randoll Florence Collins Trelva Wilson Margaret Calkens Lulu Belle Blackham Rosa Bang Ola Napier Lena Bennett Lillian Ruth Norwood Valeda Stetson Mildred Shortsleeve Priscilla H. Gale - Mrs. Lloyd Fitch Relief Society Superior Tower Virginia South Minnesota Austin Fort Frances Gettysburg Grand Forks. Minneapolis No. 2 Sioux Falls Winnipeg EnrollSubscriptions ment 12 3 5 Northn. States Mission 504 East Iowa Bonaparte Cedar Rapids Iowa City Waterloo North Illinois Elgin Galesburg Rockford Tri City South Illinois Alton Champaign Clinton Danville Decatur Farmer City Murphydale Quincy Springfield West Frankfort West Iowa 50 5 11 14 No. 12 3 5 Pet. 100 100 100 75 75 171 90 100 Magazine Representative Hazel Welch Mrs. R. A. Bruneau Violet H. Larson Vera B. Peterson Ethel Shine Mildred Sandberg Lottie Lehew Barbara Gelder | Clarice Rawlings Marjorie E. Berthman Lucy T. Andersen Malinda W. Flake Sue T. Ferguson Florence N. Schaffer Lois E. Swapp Edith Grappendorf Rena P. Custer Betty Naule Rena P. Custer Alma Busker Marilyn Bales Pearl B. Kelly Helen C. Gill Norma Bartley Lettie Crews Jane Preble Freda Belle Dial Viona Turpin Fannie Stamp Anne Burrows Anna Marie Tehrholz Nila Risner 346. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 Hartford 15 New Bedford 13 New Haven 9 New London 8 Northern Maine 16 Portland 5 Portsmouth 6 Providence 6 South Royalton 12 Springfield. 17 No. California Mission 749 Klamath Falls Alturas 10 Tulelake 15 Monterey Bay | Salinas 25 Sunnyvale 27 Watsonville 26 Redwood 82 Crescent City 12 Eureka 21 Rogue River Ashland 65 Etna 14 Grants Pass 39 Medford 44 Yreka 16 Shasta Corning 20 Cottonwood 14 Orland 12 Red Bluff 22 Redding 44 Willows 6 North Central States Mission Lake 37 Duluth 17 15 Dorothy G. Stowe Eleanor Rimmer Phyllis G. Cannon Aurla E. Mitchell Dorothy S. Wiley Viola Martin Beatrice P. Johnson Sadie Whitcomb Genevieve Davis Amelia E. P. Gardner Bertha Smith Betty Lynch Alton Ward Gertrude Reuckert Laura Hellyer Magdalene Wilcox Margery Johnson Maggie Poteet Helyn B. Hassell Venita L. Macklin Eva Facey Delna Evans, Sec. Bertie McGrow Ruth Dutra Irma Angus Mae Woodward Laurel E. Calder May Parker Marian Wiseman Sarah Leathan Martha M. Nelson Ruth J. Peterson Margaret E. Hallgren Des Moines Winter Quarters Council Bluffs Lincoln Wisconsin Eau Claire Fond du Lac Lyndhurst Oneida Rhinelander Sheboygan Wausau Northwestern States Mission Bend Bend John Day Redmond Corvallis Albany Lebanon Newport Sweet Home McMinnville Astoria Buxton McMinnville Molalla Newberg Silverton Tillamook Veronia Woodburn Oregon Klickitat Oregon City Vancouver Grace Clark Afton Hardy Vera Leenier Rosa L. Newbill Hazel M. Branham Luella M. Schroeder Myrtle Dowland Selma Hofman Beth Neider: Eva Dutcher Margaret Heck Esther Waite HONOR ROLL Mae A. McMurrin Juyne O. Farrington Florence A. Spencer Blanche M. Childers Adele Nelson Lucile T. Hardman Ruth Odegard Virginia Winstead Elizabeth Carriker Rose Tyler Melba Duncan Karen A. Hagnas Fay R. Gibson Christia Walker Mary Coltrin Rotha Young Annette Harris Bertha Winfield Maxine Medges Leurilla Wilcox Edna Wolsey Vanda Marchant Ann Fettis 347 Relief Society Puget Sound Grays Harbor Port Angeles Raymond Winlock Rainier Buckley Monroe Southern Oregon Bandon Junction City Westfir-Oakridge Wenatchee Moses Lake Quincy-Ephrata Wenatchee Individual Branches Anchorage Fairbanks Juneau Kellogg-Wallace South African Mission Luanshya H. R. Ramah Springs EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Southern States Mis. 1281 Alabama Bayou La Croix Biloxi Lamison Mobile Pascagoula Pensacola 79 Pct. Magazine 'Representative Joyce C. Elzinga May D. Hale Joyce C. Elzinga Bertha Zakel Mrs. Russell Forman Alice Brownell Helen S. Smith Ethel Barron Maybelle Wilde, Pres. Mary E. Holmes _ Margaret Draper Mae Groom Delsa Lybbert Margaret F. Amoureux Pauline M. Baird Gertrude M. Phillips Merlene C. Anderson Effie Boutin Ruby Euhert Rula W. Choules Arcola De Witt Ellen E. Ladner Daisy Harvey Effie Stockman Effie Cotton Edna L. Hewett Violet Odom Relief Society McCalla North Mississippi Columbus Sarah Senatobia South Carolina Bennetsville Myrtle Beach North South Florida Ft. Lauderdale Ft. Myers Ft. Pierce Miami Second South Georgia Hazelhurst Ridgeland Savannah West Florida Bristol Crestview Marianna Olive Panama City Sink Creek Telogia West South Carolina Aiken Rock Hill Texas-Louisiana Mis. East Texas Gilmer Longview Marshall Queen City Tyler EnrollSubscriptions ment ' 18 No. 16 Pet. 89 Magazine Representative Mary L. Vining Ruth Lamar Robbie Whitsell Viola I. Holliday. Hilmar H. Bair Eunice Rainwater Deloris Anderson Eva E. Strickland Ida Lewis Inez H. Wychyk Leona Draper Bessie Hearn Alberta §S. Clifton Myrtle Hutcheson Vivian Louther Florrie Hughes Mrs. Jeremiah Sims L. V. Adams Minnie Chesser Clara Mae Sims Julia Mae Kennedy Dorothy J. Breland Audra Peacock Esther Johnson Elma S. Pulham Mrs. A. J. Lee Leone R. Bowring Fern Collier Edna B. Cole Mrs. J. B. Haden Vaughn Rawley 348 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 Annie S. Poll Mary Norris Lydia Swanson = Lillian L. Bull Jewel L. Caraway Margaret P. Jackson Mayme Rogers Mayo Hardy Clara A. Methvin Melva L. Henry Ruth Johanson Ruby Boles Ruth M. Ray Alice Cuming's Laura Horne Sadie Ollorton Clark Mrs. E. J. Ashcroft Ann Bullock Annie Lee McLanathan Zella S. Rhoden Grace Matthews Violet Dickerson Alice Stockton Anita Walters Sadie Williamson Anna E. Brian Mrs. Luther Stewart Myrtle Raffray Thanie Dunaway North Central Texas 113.118 100 Dallas 47 45 96 Ft. Worth 28 40 143 Waco 24 18 L415 North Louisiana 148 131 L89 Alexandria 10 14 140 Level Hill 8 12 150. Many 21 19 90 Natchitoches 18 16 89 Rosepine 8 10 125 Shreveport 29 33 114 North Texas 384 42 124 Amarillo 10 16 160 Borger 12 14 117 Lubbock 12 12 100 Southeast Texas 105 Bay City 4 4 100 Baytown 17 17 100 Beaumont 11 11 100 Cleveland 8 6 fe Houston Branch #1 38 44 116 Houston Branch #2 28 30 107 Orange 5 14 280 Velacso 138 15 115 Williamson 38 42 itl South Louisiana 110 Albany _ 6 6 100 Baton Rouge 380 65 217 Bogalusa 7 7 100 J. Marie Moore Julia Gilbert Eleanor Pruitt Anita Humphrey Ethel V. Wright Lucy Michael Rose E. Gorg Ethel Gainer Central Florida 149 85 Bartow Belleview i i Bradenton vi 6 86 Daytona Beach 8 10 New Smyrna Beach' 6 6 100 Orlando ae 74 Tampa 29 +38 181 Georgia-Florida Ollie Mae Adams Cairo 8 8 Katie E. Butler Douglas 17 24 141 #L, Rachel Roberts Fitzgerald 9 8 89 Elizabeth Lott Genoa fi 6 86 Florence Milton Madison 11 9 82 Vela Milton Perry i 7 Tathie Brown Quitman 8 8 Bessie Porter 6 9 1 9 HONOR ROLL Valdosta "4 86 Cais Asbell Willacoochie 11 82 Louise Griner Georgia 92 Caroline Willson Athens 6 Myrtle Dixon Atlanta | 50 42 84 Mrs. R. E. Parker East Point 11 16 Geneva Dubrawski Empire ~ 18 15 Myrtle Fordham Gainesville 8 10 Nora Lee Miller Gibson Hi 7 Vera Thigpen Macon 34 838 Viola Land Milledgeville 9 10 111 #LAlice Quinn Montrose 10 9 90 Lollie Jean Cooper Palmetto 9 7 78 Clovis Phillips Mississippi 137 108 Otilla K. Griner Columbia Otilla K. Griner Hattiesburg - 10 Liberty Ly McComb 7 Red Star pl? Sand Hill 4 Seminary 13 North Alabama Huntsville 9 Edith B. Denham. Katie Blalock Jessie Lenoir Arcola Brady Wrennie Walley Julia Eaton Nelda Jankins Covington 3 Hammond 11 Holten 6 New Orleans 25 Pride 17 Sun 2 South Texas 128 Alamo 6 127 6 100 91 83 96 88 150 99 100 Neola Jenkins Lovey Taylor Grace N. Nicol Gertrude Aucoin Eunice Cooper Louise R. Turley Willie Moore 349 Relief Society Austin Center Point Corpus Christi San Antonio Victoria West Texas Monahans San Angelo Western States Mis. Denver Brighton Greeley Sterling East New Mexico Alamogordo Hobbs Tucamceari Pueblo Canon City Colorado Springs La Junta Trinidad San Luis Taos Scottsbluff Bridgeport Sidney. Torrington West Colorado Delta Fruita Glenwood Springs Grand Junction Meeker Montrose EnrollSubscriptions ment No. Pct. Magazine Representative Susie Ricks Lena Tullis Joyce Smith Addalee Smith Othelia Schuchert La Priel D. White Muriel C. James Maxine Clark Mildred M. Dillman Sadie Ard Thelma McDaniel Sarah M. Yapp Ilese M. Jorgensen Millie Scott Jane Simms Avalon Smart Ella Huffaker Ethel Quarels Ladeen Tally Thelma Shupe Vera Eddings Eva Green Elda Kennelly Lula Dunsdon Marie Snider Jane Blann Lula Dunsdon Ann Newman Estelle Madsen Afton Holt Relief Society West Central States Mission Butte Bozeman Butte Dillon Helena Lima Livingston Sheridan Great Falls Bynum Conrad Ft. Benton Golden Ridge Great Falls Simms Missoula Allendale Columbia Falls Hamilton Kalispell Polson Stevensville Northern Montana Harlem Wyoming Casper Ft. Washakie Lander Thermopolis Yellowstone Sumatra Individual Branches Baggs Belle Fourche Glasgow EnrollSubscriptions ment 1187 265 No. 921 221 Pct. Magazine Representative Reta F. Broadbent Irene Buttelman Marie Evans Elaine T. Sweeney Lucile Rossiter Victoria G. Peterson Mrs. Geo. R. Gillette Ruth V. Norton Jean Miller Ivy Stott Gladys Peterson Ida Embleton Armida Hanberg Vera Nelson Idalu Haynes ' Sarah Farnsworth Elizabeth Bradshaw Ada Morris Ora Blodgett Minnie Wendt Venetta Brawer Martha Porritt Itha Johnson Katherine Hein Dorothy Milam Carrie Buchanan Agnes M. Reed Judy Savage Florence Orchard Ada Edwards, Pres. Paulina Stephens 350 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 Palisade 11 Paonia 24 Rifle 16 West Nebraska 29 Grand Island 11 Hastings 4 North Platte 9 West New Mexico 224 Albuquerqque 84 Deming 11 Hot Springs 15 Los Alamos 24 Santa Fe 12 Truth or Consequences 15 Branch not in District Uravan 6 Vera Miskin Elizabeth Williams Glenda Richardson Emma Mae Allen Minnie Stoddard Vera M. Combs Della Miller Mabel Singer Ina Peterson Erma Kae Bingham Alta Jordan Louise Warren Rapid City Western Canadian Mission Creston Edmonton High River Moose Jaw Nanaimo New Westminster North Shore - Pemticton Pincher Creek Red Deer Vernon Victoria White Rock 16 50 6 10 7 20 10 6 10 7 6 20 11 100 114 100 100 110 100 83 115 100 Elizabeth Thomas, Sec. Idella Thomson Melba McMullin Dorothy Golightly Thoda Hansen Mrs. E. Romeril Zona Jacobs Mrs. D. Sniker Mrs. E. Gunning Marie Smith Darlene Swainson Mary Sloan Christine Baker Linda Stehr HONOR ROLL ~ 351 From The Field Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Bs Photograph submitted by Leila G. Eldredge SOUTH DAVIS STAKE (UTAH), BOUNTIFUL SECOND WARD DISPLAY OF DOLLS AT ANNUAL BAZAAR Left to right: Cristie Hatch and Gladys Everett. These dolls added much interest, color, and financial success to this bazaar. For the second consecutive year Sister Hatch and Sister Everett have bought new dolls at after-Christmas sales, and they have gathered dolls and scraps of material from ward members. They have re-finished dolls. And dressed them beautifully from tip to toe, making many extra items, as well as complete wardrobes. The lovely "bride" dolls are a specialty of these Relief Society women. Officers of the Bountiful Second Ward Relief Society are: Zelma Duffin, President; Thelma Gibson, First Counselor; Mabel Goodfellow, Second Counselor. Leila G. Eldredge is president of South Davis Stake Relief Society. Page 352 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 353 Photograph submitted by LaVera W. Coombs LOGAN STAKE (UTAH), FOURTEENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Left to right: Vesta Whatcoot, First Counselor; Eva Chapman, Second Counselor; Dolly Sorenson, President; Carrie Borchet, Secretary. These sisters were the first to be officers of the Relief Society in the Fourteenth Ward after its division from the Sixth Ward in 1946. They were released in September 1951, and shortly after that Sister Sorenson left, with her husband, to serve in the North Central States Mission. LaVera W. Coombs is president of Logan Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Mary L. Lewis PUERTO RICO RELIEF SOCIETY CONDUCTS MANY ACTIVITIES IN SMALL ORGANIZATION Left to right: Pauline Rudd, teacher and assistant in music; Catherine Golding, Secretary; Joy Barker, First Counselor; Abbie Lamb, President; Mary L. Lewis, Second Counselor; Virginia Padin, Puerto Rican member, an expert in needlecraft. Most of these young Relief Society members are wives of servicemen stationed in Puerto Rico. Sister Ruth Smith was unable to be present when the photograph was taken, and Sister Olive Golding, of Price, Utah, who was a member for a time, is not in the picture. ' Sister Lewis reports the activities of this enthusiastic group: "We were fortunate to have enough Latter-day Saint women to organize a Relief Society among the wives of the servicemen. Each week the members met at one of the homes under the direction of President Abbie Lamb. Sister Padin attended every meeting and taught us many beautiful fancywork patterns. Each member completed an embroidered blouse, and, as a Christmas project, the group made clothing for a needy native family. We had several visitors to our meetings, and they were greatly impressed." 354 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 Photograph submitted by Edna J. Kindred SOUTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE, AMMON WARD, DISPLAYS QUILT SENT AS A GIFT TO THE JOSEPH SMITH HOME, PALMYRA, NEW YORK Left to right: Marjorie Judy, Secretary; Dian Judy, President; Pamela Southwick, First Counselor; Leda Jones, Second Counselor; Vera Lee, work meeting director; Olive Empey, quiltmaking leader. This beautiful and exquisitely made quilt is designed in the pattern known as "Washington's Pavement," and the sisters greatly enjoyed making the quilt for this worthwhile purpose. Edna J. Kindred is president of South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Ella C. Burton GREAT LAKES MISSION, PURDUE BRANCH (LAFAYETTE, INDIANA) RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS WHO SPONSORED A BAZAAR November 10, 1951 Front row, seated, left to right: Alice Christensen; Fay Probst; Colleen Baxter, President; Mayda Low; June Jacobsen; Ruth Aikele. Back row, standing, left to right: Glenine Wallace; Elaine Watt; Kathleen NOTES FROM THE FIELD 35D Richardson; Velva Lee Smith; Damaris Williams; Fae Baker; Rae Simonsen, Second Counselor; Ina Nelson; Dessie Olson, First Counselor. The bazaar commenced at six o'clock p. M. With the serving of a cafeteria-style family supper. Sister Ina Nelson was in charge of the food. At six-thirty the fishpond was opened for the children, under the direction of Sister Aikele and Sister Wallace. At seven o'clock the sewing booth opened. As it was near Christmas time, everyone was eager to take advantage of the lovely articles on sale. Francis Stephenson and Elaine Watt were in charge of this booth. Other displays included bakery goods, an art booth, and a booth displaying Christmas gift wrappings. A one-hour program concluded the evening's entertainment, with Brother John Simonsen acting as master of ceremonies. Ella C. Burton is president of the Great Lakes Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Madeleine P. Stevens COTTONWOOD STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSICAL DRAMATIZATION, "ODE TO A MESSENGER," January 17, 1952 Front row, at left: Sister Iola J. Peterson, stake chorister; Bishop Arion Erekson, voice for the "Master" in dramatization. Second row, standing next to, and just back of Bishop Erekson, President Madeleine P. Stevens, Cottonwood Stake Relief Society. Back row, at left: Evelyn P. Shelton, stake Magazine representative and author of the dramatization, and composer of the music. | In Magazine cover at right, soloist Mildred O. Shaw. The purpose of this unique and beautifully presented dramatization was to bring to the attention of the sisters the great service rendered by The Relief Society Magazine. In the introduction, read by the stake literature leader, Maurine B. Folsom, the following comments were emphasized: "The Relief Society Magazine serves as the heart of the great organization—its messenger, its instructor, its lifeline. To portray the magnitude and scope of this homemaker's guide, we present this musical dramatization." Each ward in the stake furnished a group of Singing Mothers for the stake chorus, and these groups formed the nucleus for developing a larger chorus in each ward, so that the dramatization could be presented in each ward during the month of February. 4 356 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 Photograph submitted by Pearl Bullock DANISH MISSION, ESBJERG BRANCH DISPLAYS QUILT AND WELFARE CLOTHING Standing, back row, second from the left is Sister Pearl Bullock, a missionary, and district president. Sister Bullock reports that this small branch has "done a wonderful work with used clothing sent from America. Six hundred articles of clothing have been prepared by the sisters and are now on hand for use. The sisters here in Denmark are sweet and humble. They love the Relief Society and are willing and faithful. A most wonderful spirit of love is felt in all our meetings. The testimonies are genuine, and the sisters love the gospel." Minnie B. Sorensen is president of the Danish Mission Relief Society. Y % & Y Re-Entrance of Spring Maryhale Woolsey A thousand thousand times, spring has renewed This peaceful valley. Springtime—long unnamed, But known by every charming, changeful mood— Has set the bright streams dancing, and reclaimed These hills from winter's rule. Year after year. Unrolled the meadows' flowered carpetings, Saw slim red willows put on leaf-green sheer, And birds, bound nestward, fold contented wings. A thousand thousand times, the waking land Will bring this gladness to the eager heart, This sureness of new miracles at hand— And one high lovely moment, quite apart, When wonder enters by some secret door As if springtime had never been, before. Dear Conquest (Continued from page 317) ther and for him for a long time." Maggie looked up. "Ira's asking a great deal when he asks me to stay safe while he's in danger or going through some trouble alone, always alone." We all fell silent again until Grandma Friebach began to tecount some of the Thanksgiving dinners she'd given or been to more than fifty years ago. It was dark by five, when My John bundled Grandma Friebach up and took her home in the sleigh. Maggie fed Sullivan his supper in the kitchen, balancing him on her lap while he did his best to reach his dish and upset it. "Maybe," Maggie said, trying to make her voice light, "Ira will miss us." "Course he will,' I said, hanging up my dishcloth. Maggie hid her face against the b. * of Sullivan's little fat neck. Her voice broke. "This isn't the kind of marriage I expected, that Ira and I have. It's more of an endurance match. I can't bear to see so much that was good turning into something bad." "Tra's just a dreadfully proud man," I said. "I want him to be proud." Maggie began to cry. "But I want him to be using his love as well as his pride. Ira's got to be reached, but I don't know how. Love's got to be stronger between us than pride." Sullivan squirmed to reach his mother's face. Maggie brushed away the tears with the back of her hand and swallowed hard just as My John banged open the back kitchen BEAUTIFUL TWO PART CHORUSES for EF SOC SINGERS REL _. Altar of Prayer—Smith _. Ie Sits Children's Friend—Adams ---.15 — God Shall Wipe Away All Tears—Roma 16 i Grateful, O Lord, Am I—Roma.15 —— 1 Walked Today Where Jesus Walked—O'Hara 22 — Lift Up Your Heads—Hopkins.12 Lord's Prayer—Malotte 25 ae On the Highway to Galilee— Dulmage 12 snenee Peace | Leave With You—Roberts.16 — Softly and Tenderly—Thompson 15 Music Sent On Approval WE PAY POSTAGE Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47 South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the music indicated above. Cl) On Approval O Charge OD Money Enclosed NaMee --.2.-. Ceccecceceeeececescenceneeeneneees Address - City & State 45-47 a FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY SALT LAKE CITY 3, UTAN Page 35/7 358 When a Kitchen 15 LA fay aces SS; of course it's ELECTRIC A Utah Power & Light - Company Message IN \\ ' ' BN ONY \ \) SN " YS Preserve Your Relief Society Magazines For Reference Have your Relief Society Magazines bound into permanent yearly volumes. They are excellent for reference. Cost is small. Write or phone today for information. Deseret News Press 8 SOUTH MAIN STREET Gd 4-2581 Salt Lake City, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1952 door and entered, red-nosed, redcheeked and puffing steam. "It's a real blizzard blowing this time for sure." I threw him a warning glance, but Maggie's widening eyes, suddenly darkened with fear, were already on the window which was blocked by snow and winter darkness. (To be concluded) Rindness 'Mabel Law Atkinson Kindness Is the language Requiring no training For the deaf to hear or the dumb To speak. Gnvited Lael W. Hill Prim-shod, along the pavement I walk my proper way, And all the lush green lawns call out For me to come and play. I wish that I were small enough To act like any child And dance across their shining green With. Bare feet white and wild. How soon I'd leave my slippers And answer that blithe call With dancing barefoot on the grass— If I were only small! Prim-shod, beside the lush green lawns I walk and wish today— Tomorrow I'll kick off my shoes And dance there anyway! NYLONG for NYLONS As advertised over Television and Radio The harmless, miracle powder which makes nylons, rayons, and silks last longer. Makes them resistant to snags, rips, runs, or breaks. ONE TREATMENT LASTS THE LIFE OF THE MATERIAL Try it on an inexpensive pair of nylons and be amazed! ENJOY WEARING YOUR NYLONS WITHOUT FEAR OF RUNS! Money Back guarantee on all brands of hose except mesh. Now at a new low price— 59 CENTS PER PACKAGE OR 2 FOR $1.00 Send check, cash, or money order USE THIS COUPON NYLONG COMPANY RSMS5 P. O. Box 1436 Salt Lake City 10, Utah Please send me packages NYLONG for which I enclose -ccccssse+--+- bce wcvewcemncccennen cence cecnenccnsecnns ances acncce maser cenetcemescssecceenecssecese Compensa tion Beulah A uish Sadleir It takes a patient hand, they say, To pick first violets after snow— Their fragrance is my overpay If this be so. (Desert Spring Jessie M. Robinson The desert is a garden Of multi-colored cacti-bloom; Saguaros green and white are columns In a golden room. And sands are flaming music With ocatillos blossoming; And in the arching turquoise sky, The vagrant birds will sing. Within this temple garden, Slender yuccas, one by one, Will lift their ivory chalices In worship to the sun. AMAZING SEWING TIME SAVER RIP-A-SEAM ATTACHMENT Rips out seams twenty times faster than you can do it by hand MAKES ALTERATIONS, RE-STYLES, RENEWS, MAKES OVER REDECORATES SEW OUT AND SAVE Only $1.00 (check or bill) for this RIP-A-SEAM ATTACHMENT Fits all standard makes of sewing machines USE COUPON BELOW Mrs. John A. Rowe, Distributor RSM 5 2623 East 2900 South Salt Lake City, Utah Enclosed find $ 2..005 for RIP-A-SEAM attachments (postpaid). THE HISTORIC TRAIN leaves Salt Lake City, Utah AUGUST 1, 1952 for Denver, Kansas City, INDEPENDENCE, NAUVOO, CARTHAGE, Chicago, Cleveland, KIRTLAND, Niagara Falls, and the GREAT PAGEANT at the HILL CUMORAH! Also SHARON, VERMONT, New York, Philadelphia, Washington D. C., etc. For complete details write or phone VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Tel. 4-2017 Page 359 From Near and Sar I have just read for the "manyth" time, your most inspirational editorial report of the October conference, 1951 (Relief Society Magazine, December 1951, page 830, editorial by Marianne C. Sharp). I read every word published in the Era of the conference speakers, and so far 'as women of the Church are concerned, your selection of statements of the brethren includes the most vital statements of the entire conference messages. 'Thank you, and heaven continue to bless your efforts. —Annie P. M. Hepworth Garberville, California It is with interest that I have just read the article "Individual Influence and Responsibility" (By Counselor Velma N. Simonsen, March 1952). In reference to front page headlines which appear south of "49," we, here, north of "49" also experience many similar headlines. From these reports, it would be indicated that we (both North and South) should accept our "individual responsibility and inflence" in the upbuilding of our country and its people. As individual citizens and as organized groups, it becomes our duty to correct the conditions which exist. —H. E. Richardson Victoria, B. C., Canada. Thelma Hatch, author of the story "Every Night at Our House," page 303, is sixteen years old and lives in Bancroft, Idaho. She is a great-granddaughter of Parley P. Pratt. We returned from Mexico last week to find a pile of congratulation letters for my story "The Wearing of the Gay" (March 1952). Since then I have had no end of calls and personal comments, all of which proves how well the Magazine is read. I believe the story "The Least of These" (third prize story, March 1952) is one of the finest stories I have ever read, and "Room for Phyllis' (by Alice Morrey Bailey) is one which all can profit by. Also, I would like to compliment Kay Islaub for her fine story "To Thine Own Self" in February, and also Hannah Smith's story "The House With the Blue Roof." —Frances C. Yost Bancroft, Idaho Please let Mrs. Coles know how very much I admire her frontispiece poem "The Women of Nauvoo" in the March issue of The Relief Society Magazine. I have heard my grandmother speak of the wonderful fortitude and courage of the women of Nauvoo. She was one of them. I especially like the two last lines of the poem. I once heard the deceased * Harrison R. Merrill call Christie Lund Coles '"'the Sara Teasdale of Utah.' Her work is very lovely. —Gene Romolo Provo, Utah Our family is enjoying the March Magazine. We are planning to use material from it for our next Family Hour. Our youngest daughter will retell Frances Yost's charming story "The Wearing of the Gay" (She loves its message and its gaiety); our school-teacher daughter will read "The Least of These," by Margery S. Stewart, and I shall read several poems, one of which will be "The Women of Nauvoo" by Christie Lund Coles. I am so grateful for Margery S. Stewart's story, as it gives a needed sermon without preaching. Both our daughters liked the story "Room for Phyllis," by Alice Morrey Bailey. —Mabel Law Atkinson Dayton, Idaho I would like to mention the many letters which have come to me about the article: "A Faith-Promoting Memory" (Relief Society Magazine, November 1951), letters from all over the country, and two from daughters of Brother Hatch, mentioned in the article. They remembered that he often referred to the trip described in the article. —Esther L. Warburton Evanston, Wyoming Being Indian, I really like the article "The Place of Relief. Society in the Indian Program" (By Elder Delbert Leon Stapley, February 1952, page 76). Both the Era and The Relief Society Magazine have really been an inspiration and help to me. —Mrs. Jennie Morn Wolf Point, Montana Reading for May: Brigham Young and Church History Discourses of Brigham Young Selected and arranged by Dr. John A Widtsoe. In this book Brigham Young speaks for himself and shows the coherent system of faith which he lived and taught. It shows how he applied the simple principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. #300 Brigham Young, The Man and His Work —By Preston Nibley. The intimate life story of the great Mormon colonizer and leader, with special stress on his, teachings as set forth in his letters, sermons, and writings, many of them 00 never before published. $3 Essentials in Chureh History ~~-By Joseph Fielding Smith. The vital and essential points of history and doctrine, selected and arranged in chronological order... With revelations given to Joseph Smith interwoven with the history. $400 FREE: Send for eomplete Chusch book Brice ae Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers Hi H | \II HH HH HHI | i i Mommy says IT had a wonderful = Daddy. ——_ = When I was a little baby, a - Beneficial Life Agent came to our house and he and Daddy talked about a plan that would BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE David O. McKay, President U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 make it so that Mommy would never have to leave me and L0 to work. Even though I don't remember my Daddy, he really must have, loved Mommy and me. Salt Lake City, Utah 3 VOL. 39 NO. 6 7 
