[WomansExponent | Vol32 | 1903 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: President Bathsheba W. Smith | Author: Unknown]

PRESIDENT BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
SPEECH AT WEBER STAKE REUNION.
	Aunt Bathsheba Smith was called upon
and spoke briefly as follows:
	“President Smith has told you the truth.
I know that the endowments are given now
the same as they were given by Joseph
Smith the Prophet. He was present with
us and lectured and talked with us after we
had received our first ordinances, and I
have met him many times at councils which
were held and he told us many things and
explained them to us, showed us how to
pray, and how to detect them when true or
false angels came to us, and many other
true things he taught us, and he instituted
the endowments through the Lord, and it
was not Brigham Young or any one else.
I know he was a true prophet of God and
this knowledge could not be stronger if an-
gels were to come and talk to me. I know
he never taught a thing that was wrong, and
if we obey him we will receive celestial
glory and without we will not. I bear this
testimony and it is true, for I worked in the


Nauvoo Temple and in the Endowment
House and in the Salt Lake Temple. This
is the first day I have left the Temple to go
anywhere since Sister Zina’s death. I was
at the first meeting when the Relief Society
was organized in Nauvoo and I enjoyed
the teaching of the Prophet and tried to
profit by it and to teach my sisters. Brother
Smith, I guess this will do?”
	President Smith: “Did Brigham Young
reveal plural marriage?”
	Sister Smith: “He did not. God re-
vealed it through the Prophet Joseph
Smith. I have tried to be one with my
husband and I was just as happy with him
as any woman could be, for I loved him
dearly and I knew why he practised the
principle of plural marriage. He knew it
was a principle of exaltation, and I wished
him to receive as great an exaltation as any
one, and I expected to share it with him.
If I lived my life over again, I do not know
that I could better it, though I have more
experience now.”
	Sister Smith then related a dream she
had concerning her husband and also some
remarks made by the Prophet Joseph when
she was a young girl. Continuing she
said, “God bless us all and keep us in the
line of our duty, that we may live our lives
in earnest and receive the glory and exalta-
tion we seek. Amen.”


