APRIL 1949 She HalfBelievers Berta H. Christensen We were the half-believers of his word, Who felt his power and yet denied the truth. We were the quibblers, pitting line and phrase Against the written law. We asked for proof. We were the faithless seekers for a sign To evidence his claim, yet were not fed Enough by testament of Cana's feast, The leper healed, the miracle of bread. We neither smote nor came to his defense, But watched him pass; his weighted footsteps made Slow imprint on Golgotha's path, while we Stood silently aloof and half-afraid. Some vowed that he had risen, had been seen. Still by relentless pride we were deceived; _ But when we looked into the empty tomb. Se: We envied those who had believed! The Cover: Viceroy Butterfly, Photograph by Willard Luce. Jesus—Lord of the Resurrection Elder Don B. Colton Director, Missionary Home, Salt Lake City, and Member, Sunday School General Board 66 HE first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early, when it was yet dark, unto the sepulchre, and seeth the stone taken away from the sepulchre" (John 20:1). Jesus had risen. It has always seemed so very appropriate that the Savior would choose to rise from the tomb just before dawn of the most wonderful Sunday in history. We can easily believe that the darkness of that night was dispelled with a morning of unusual brightness, giving color to the flowers and filling all the land with beauty and brilliance without glare. How hallowed the morning of that day! Of course, it was necessary to frighten away the Roman soldiers and that an angel should roll away the stone at the door of the tomb. Comparatively few, however, knew of one of the most important events in all the history of the world. Very early in the morning—without show or ostentation—the power of the Lord was made manifest. Oh, the majesty of simplicity! The stone sealing the sepulchre was removed. The disciples who came first found the tomb empty. The linen clothes which had covered the precious body of the Lord and the napkin "that was about his head" were lying neatly folded in the silent tomb. To that small group, gathered at dawn near the sepulchre, an angel spoke some of the most thmilling Page 220 words ever to fall on mortal ears: "He is not here: for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay" (Matt. 28:6). Granted that this event occurred, as Matthew describes it, nothing ever happened of more importance to the people of this world. He had said he would rise from the dead. Ie arose. The events of that morning affected the destiny of every person born in this world. To the soul convinced that Jesus was resurrected, it becomes the most transcendent event of all the ages. They who seek in faith and sincerity are promised that the same conviction will come to them that came to Peter: "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." To know that is eternal life. Is it not worth seeking? Let us not deceive ourselves. We are not justified in saying that we may not know until we make every effort to know the most important truth in the universe: "I know that my Redeemer liveth." The greatness of the Messiah is not usually revealed in pomp and splendor. The whirlwind or the loud peal of thunder may stir within us feelings of mystery and fear, but after these turbid elements are stilled the Lord of hosts stands revealed by the Holy Ghost which is the still voice of nature. Cowper said: "Nature is but a name for an effect whose cause is God.". JESUS—LORD OF THE RESURRECTION We see in nature some astonishing things. Many see in some of them a foreshadowing of the resurrection. Something symbolic may be scen. Three examples are often used: First, when a seed falls on fertile soil, it seems to decay and rises again as a beautiful flower, plant, or tree. Second, under the warmth of a mother bird, a winged offspring comes out of the shell a uscful or beautiful creature. Third, an ugly and creeping caterpillar is transformed into a beautiful butterfly. It is true, that in all of these cases there has been no death of the physical forerunner of the new creation, but there is a foreshadowing of the passing from one life to another. Only a part of the human soul—the body—dies, as only a part of the kernel of wheat dies. The analogies are not altogether good, but the foreshadowing is there. We do rise to a newness of life. God calls our spirits out of these earthly temples for awhile and then, having made them clean, glorious, and incortuptible, he resurrects our bodies and reunites spirit and body to receive a fulness of glory. At least, he gives us that fulness which our life's work entitles us to receive. While Jesus yet lived on earth, he said: "And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me" (John 12:32). He was lifted up from the earth. He was taken down and put into the earth. That first resurrection morning, while it was yet dark, he came out of the earth. He now has the power to draw all men unto him. More than five hundred people saw him upon this earth after he was resur- 221 rected (1 Cor. 15:6). No facts in ancient history are better attested than that Jesus lived; that he was crucified and his body sealed in a tomb; that he was resurrected from the dead and ministered in his immortal body to his disciples. 'Those men whom he had chosen while he was yet with them on earth and dwelling in a mortal body, now saw him in his immortal body. It was a reality. Jesus, alone, of all the founders of religions, proclaimed himself "the resurrection and the life." Those who desire and believe in the continuity of individual life in a world as real as this must believe in Christ. He, only, promises that to the children of men. Of all the characters who cross the pages of history, Jesus is the only one who declared that he would lay his body down and take it up again. And he added: "I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it up again." He did that very thing. ORE and more men are doubting that Jesus was resurrected and that he is now the living Chnist, the only begotten Son of God in the flesh. They regard him as the greatest teacher of all time and many say he was a "manifestation of the divine in human life." Others believe that he actually took his body from the tomb and again incarnated or reincarnated himself in that body for about forty days. At the end of that period, he discarded the body and went back into the everywhereness condition in which he lived before being born of the virgin Mary. Such doctrine, how-. Ever, is not scriptural, nor does it 222 gquiare with reason. Esus was the exemplar—the prototype—of the human family. "He matked the path and led the way." "He was the first fruits of the resurrection." He kept his body. He has it now. He has been seen of men in our day. He has a glorified, celestialized, immortal body. The writer of this article has made a somewhat careful study of comparative religions and of the founders of sects and churches. Not one of the founders of religions ever made the claim of being a God while he lived as a mortal man, €Xcept Jesus Christ. He boldly proclaimed himself a God, even the "All things were Cte " 'To an adverse group esus answered and said this temple, and in three will raise it up - he spake of the temple of his body (John 2:19; 21). This was said undet conditions which, if not true, could easily have been shown to be false. Indeed, his saying that he would take up his body in three days was remembered by his enemies after his crucifixion. The Jews requested of Pilate: disciples come by night, and steal him away, and say risen from the dead: so the last error shall be worse than the first. Pilate said unto them, Ye have a watch: go your way, make it as sure as ye Can. So they went, and made the sepulchre sure, sealing the stone, and setting 4 watch (Matt. 27:64-66). The action taken was, in effect, a challenge to the poweet and godship of Christ. The challenge was met. Jesus came out of the tomb, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 the conqueror of death, hell, and the grave. That is the very thing that he said he would do. 'There are many who want always to sutround God's work in mystery. Let us frankly admit that the resurrection must be accepted largely upon faith. We accept myriads of things on faith. That does not mean that they are not real. Faith leads us to seek God, and revelation from him shows us how needed light and information concerning life and immortality are given. There are those who teach that our faith in Christ is built upon the "blessed mystery of the incatnation." Must our faith forever rest upon a mystery? Jesus did not so teach. His philosophy was plain and easy to understand. He said: "Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for | am meek and lowly in heart; and ye shall find rest unto your souls" (Matt. 11:29). There are some things we may not fully understand, but the way of life— the pathway to Jesus—is not filled with mystery. "Tf any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, oF whether I speak of myself" (John 7:17). The key is given there by the Lord. Doing his will unlocks the mysteries. Following closely the path he marked brings us to the light of God. If we do not know that Jesus 18 the Lord, it does not mean that he cannot be known. It means we have not done his will; we have not followed where he led. Our duty is to find the pathway to the knowledge that Jesus does live. It can be found. "No man can Say the Lord, but by the that Jesus ls Holy Ghost" JESUS—LORD OF THE RESURRECTION (1 Cor. 12:3). The plain implication is that by the Holy Ghost we may receive a testimony and say that we know Jesus is the Lord. In the gospel of our Lord the way is mapped out for us to receive the Holy Ghost. One of the sweetest joys of life is to have that great gift. It brings a knowledge of our Redeemer. We may know that he lives. Because he lives, we will live. Because he was resurrected, we will be raised from the grave. 'Through Jesus Christ came the redemption of man. And because of the redemption of man, which came by Jesus Christ, they are brought back into the presence of the Lord; yea, this is wherein all men are redeemed, because the death of Christ bringeth to pass the resurrection, which bringeth to pass a redemption from an endless sleep, from which sleep all men shall be awakened by the power of God when the trump shall sound; and they shall come forth, both small and great, and all shall stand before his bar, being redeemed and loosed from this eternal band of death, which death is a temporal death (Book of Mormon, Mormon 9:13). HE prophet Alma tells us that when the spirit leaves the body it returns to the God who gave it life, there to be assigned to the place its life's work has merited. The spirits of the righteous "are received into a state of happiness, which is called paradise" where they shall be free from cares and _ sorrows. 'Those who have been unrighteous and wicked are "cast out into outer darkness' (Alma 40:12, 13). This place called paradise is not one of inactivity. To the righteous, it 223 is a State of joy, of