Jesus—Lord of the Resurrection Elder Don B. Colton Director, Missionary Home, Salt Lake City, and Member, Sunday School General Board 66 HE first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early, when it was yet dark, unto the sepulchre, and seeth the stone taken away from the sepulchre" (John 20:1). Jesus had risen. It has always seemed so very appropriate that the Savior would choose to rise from the tomb just before dawn of the most wonderful Sunday in history. We can easily believe that the darkness of that night was dispelled with a morning of unusual brightness, giving color to the flowers and filling all the land with beauty and brilliance without glare. How hallowed the morning of that day! Of course, it was necessary to frighten away the Roman soldiers and that an angel should roll away the stone at the door of the tomb. Comparatively few, however, knew of one of the most important events in all the history of the world. Very early in the morning—without show or ostentation—the power of the Lord was made manifest. Oh, the majesty of simplicity! The stone sealing the sepulchre was removed. The disciples who came first found the tomb empty. The linen clothes which had covered the precious body of the Lord and the napkin "that was about his head" were lying neatly folded in the silent tomb. To that small group, gathered at dawn near the sepulchre, an angel spoke some of the most thmilling Page 220 words ever to fall on mortal ears: "He is not here: for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay" (Matt. 28:6). Granted that this event occurred, as Matthew describes it, nothing ever happened of more importance to the people of this world. He had said he would rise from the dead. Ie arose. The events of that morning affected the destiny of every person born in this world. To the soul convinced that Jesus was resurrected, it becomes the most transcendent event of all the ages. They who seek in faith and sincerity are promised that the same conviction will come to them that came to Peter: "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." To know that is eternal life. Is it not worth seeking? Let us not deceive ourselves. We are not justified in saying that we may not know until we make every effort to know the most important truth in the universe: "I know that my Redeemer liveth." The greatness of the Messiah is not usually revealed in pomp and splendor. The whirlwind or the loud peal of thunder may stir within us feelings of mystery and fear, but after these turbid elements are stilled the Lord of hosts stands revealed by the Holy Ghost which is the still voice of nature. Cowper said: "Nature is but a name for an effect whose cause is God.". JESUS—LORD OF THE RESURRECTION We see in nature some astonishing things. Many see in some of them a foreshadowing of the resurrection. Something symbolic may be scen. Three examples are often used: First, when a seed falls on fertile soil, it seems to decay and rises again as a beautiful flower, plant, or tree. Second, under the warmth of a mother bird, a winged of