growth and progress. Rest does not mean idleness —that is often boredom. Jesus, when he had finished his work on the cross, went to paradise and preached to spirits who were disobedient in the days of Noah (1 Peter 3:19-20). For what did he go? Just to add to their misery by telling them what they had missed? That thought does an injustice to the loving, merciful Redeemer. He took to them a message of hope. A great part of the work of the Savior lay ahead of him when he expired on the cross. It was not until he was resurrected from the tomb, not until the spirit and body had been reunited that he became a living soul and was prepared to return to his Father, that the fulness of his work had been accomplished. Then it was that it pleased the "Father that in him should all fulness dwell." He was then in a position to extend the saving graces of the resurrection to all of our Father's children. As Jesus became a living soul after the resurrection, so by his redeeming power will our spirits and bodies be re-united and become living souls, to become inseperable, immortal, and eternal beings forever. Why should we reject a great and glorious event because, forsooth, we do not understand just how it was accomplished or brought about? The resurrection of Jesus was real. He was not a deceiver nor did he take up his body to later discard it. How can we doubt the actual corporeity of the resurrected Lord, if we accept the scriptures as evidence? Moreover, we are definitely promised that if we do obey the gospel of 224 Christ, we may know by the gift and power of the Holy Ghost that Jesus was resurrected and that we will be resurrected. That principle is a part of the gospel. The whole of Christianity revolves around that truth. "For if the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised: and if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins" (1 Cor. 15:16-17). That body he took up was real. With it he ate broiled fish and honeycomb (Luke 24:42-43). When he left his disciples an angel told them: "This same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven" (Acts 1:11). Why surround the event with mystery? Often the grandest things are simple when we understand them. The Creator of heaven and earth had power to lay down his life and take his body up from the tomb. Then, surely, he has power to call all men from their graves. "For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive" (1 Cor, 15:22). During one of his last talks with his disciples before his ascension into heaven, Jesus said: "All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth" (Matt. 28:18). His authority and power are supreme. He is Lord omnipotent, "who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God" (Phil, 276). That he did cause others to be resurrected is shown by the following scripture: "And the graves were opened; and many bodies of the saints which slept arose, and came RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 out of the graves after his resurrection, and went into the holy city, and appeared unto many" (Matt. 27:52-53). This occurred after the resurrection of the Lord. He was the "first fruits" of the resurrection. There is no question about those who slept in the graves being raised from the dead. If many were resurrected, all can and will be. "And shall come forth; they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation" (John 5:29). In another place John further states: And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened; and another book was opened, which is the book of life: and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it; and death and hell delivered up the dead which were 'in them: and they were judged every man according to their works (Rev. 20:12-13). The question asked by Job: "If a man die, shall he live again?" was answered. For thousands of years men have asked that question. The answer came, after the cross, on the first Easter morning when Christ, "the first born of every creature," came out of the tomb. If man die, he shall live again. To Latter-day Saints, the resurrection is a glorious event to which they look forward. Easter is fraught with deep meaning. Faithful ones who appreciate the "author and finisher of their faith" in their hearts join in the glad cry: "Hosanna! Blessed be the name of the Most High God!" The Boy There Christie Lund Coles ENNY lifted the small dog higher on his shoulder, slowed his step, and leaned against the barn to catch his breath. He stroked the small black and white animal saying, "Nice little feller. What's your name?" The dog whined, and, suddenly, the boy winced as he noticed a bleeding gash on one hind leg. "Gee," he murmured, gently, "we'll fix it. You'll be okay. If Pa will let me keep you, I'll name you Tip. I'll take good care of you." He leaned forward to look around the corner of the barn. His father was in from the fields for lunch. Right now he was bending his dark head under the water pump, washing for lunch. It would be a good time to ask him. He started forward, then he paused fascinated and afraid at the sight of his father's large hand lifting and lowering the pump handle. Denny felt sick with shame, remembering that it took all his strength and both hands to work it and then the water never poured out like it was doing now. | His Pa was a handsome man as he shook the water from his hair and dried his hands. He was six fect, three inches tall and was stronger than any man in towns around here. Once, he had seen him lift a wagon box with one hand. Maybe that was why he was so frightening to him... Because he was so big and so sure of himself, because he talked too loud. When he was angry his voice was like who could help thunder or the roar of a big flood, the kind Pa told him they used to have in the valley beneath here. Still... He loved his father with a stronger, different kind of love than that for his mother. It was a sort of reaching up, of aching for the man's regard, though he supposed he'd never really win that, for once he had heard him say to his wife, "To think that I sired that little runt.". There had been laughter in his voice, but Denny hurt inside whenever he thought of it. He was a runt, and you couldn't blame Pa for wanting a big son, one in the fields, and with the horses, instead of him who stood shaking here, scared to go and ask if he might keep the poor, hurt critter in his arms.. It wasn't that Pa ever hurt him, or that he would now. It was likely he'd just say, "That ain't a dog, that's a contamination," or something like that. His father liked big dogs, like Shep who had been gored by a bull while trying to pasture it. Denny had loved Shep, too, but there was something about a little dog like this one that made him feel strong and good. He could pick him up, talk to him, though he had to be careful of the sore leg that was still bleeding. | Even if Pa wouldn't let him have the dog he would help fix the leg. He couldn't see any animal suffer. He had tears in his eyes the day he buried Shep, when he put his hand on Denny's shoulder and said, Page 225 226 "Don't feel bad, boy. He died doin' his job. There ain't no better way than that." DENNY watched his Pa take a long drink of water from the tin dipper hanging beside the well, saw him put the dipper in place, plant his hands on his hips, and gaze far out over the west field that was plowed and ready to be planted with the early wheat. He looked happy, maybe now was as good a time as any to ask him about the dog. He couldn't wait much longer for the little fellow was beginning to struggle against the pressure of his arm. Breathing deeply, he stepped forward, started up the path between the chicken coop and the rabbit hutch, past the woodpile, over the chips that covered the walk, up to the enormous oak tree whose lacy shade reached from here to the well and even up to the kitchen porch. His father couldn't see him, so he paused once more to catch his breath. Suddenly, Pa made a motion as though starting for the house and Denny hurried forward, almost stumbling to the ground as he did so. Pa heard him and turned. His dark eyes looked first at the boy, then at the dog in his arms. He asked briefly, '""Where'd you find that?" "T found him over by the highway. Somebody must've put him from a car. Else he's come a long ways, he's all dirty and his leg's hurt." "You don't figure to keep him?" "T kinda hoped to " RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 "Yer Ma wouldn't stand it. He'd chase the chickens and bother the horses. That's all little dogs like him is good for." "But Pa " "Now, none of your 'buts'. Bring him over to the porch and let's have a look at him." Denny carried the dog carefully to the porch. Then his father reached over and took the animal from him and laid it on the porch while he bent on one knee to examine its hurt leg. The boy couldn't look at it. Each time the dog whimpered with quick pain, he felt a sickness in the middle of his stomach. He kept his eye on the tomato plants his mother had set out in coffee cans until time for planting. Then Pa said, "Here, boy, go fetch some water, good and hot. And a clean rag." He was glad to get away, to go into the house, to go up and kiss his mother who was standing by the hot stove pouring flour thickening into bouing carrots. He wanted, for just a moment, to feel the good sureness of her body against his. "Hello there,' she greeted him, touching his hair with her roughened fingers, "you been gone a long time." Then, wiping a streak of soot from his face, she said, "Dinners most on. Your Pa ready?" "He's fixin' a dog's leg. I found it on the highway. He said you wouldn't let me keep it. Won't you Ma? Won't you please?" She put the blue bowl of thickening on the warming oven while she stuck another piece of kindling into the stove. Then, hesitantly, she told him, "If your Pa will let you, THE BOY THERE I won't interfere. Sometimes, he puts words into a body's mouth." "Gee, Ma, you're swell. He wants some hot water and a clean rag." "Pour some from the teakettle. Pll get a cloth. Mind the dog don't chase the chickens none." "You won't need to worry. Watch it, Ma. Honest, I will." Holding the screen door open with his foot, he carried the basin of water with both hands. He saw the dog lying on its side. Pa was holding the bad leg by the foot. The dog seemed to know he was a friend for, though he would lift his head as though he wanted to bite Pa, he would lick the large, brown hand, instead. Denny glanced at the wound and saw an ugly gash that showed white sinew and quivering, bleeding flesh. He put the washbowl down swiftly. His father said, "Well, tear off a piece of cloth so's I can bathe this. And hurry. I ain't got all day." Shaking, Denny managed to get a piece of rag torn off and handed it in the general direction of his Pa. It missed his hand and the man looked up, "Watch that." His eyes came up to meet the terrified eyes of the boy. He let go of the dog and said, "For gosh sake, what ails you? A dog would die if it depended on you for doctorin'. Git in the house. Go on now, git!" Obeying, Denny started through the door, feeling not only sick, but sorry and ashamed now, too. He wanted to stay and show his father that he could be of some help, but there was no turning back now. Before he could put foot on the worn kitchen floor Pa was up and beside him, putting his hand Pl 227 on top of his head, as he told his wife, ""Take care of this young 'un. Give him a spot of the soup you was fixing." Water rose in Denny's throat, into his mouth. He wanted to bend and kiss his father's hand as he had seen the dog lick it a moment before. While the thought was still warm and sweet in him, Pa touched his head again, ruffling his hair, saying, playfully perhaps, "He's a sissy, Ma," and something seemed stricken inside the boy. When his mother tried to spoon warm soup into his mouth he pushed it away. UT the dog stayed, and spring passed with its shimmering beauty, its newness, its smell of turned earth and lilacs and blossoms in the long orchard north of the house. He loved spring, but he loved summer too, especially the purple evenings when he brought the cows home from the pasture across the creek bed where he wet his bare feet in the shiny water, and, later, felt the warm dirt cling and trickle between his toes. Ma had warned him not to get his feet wet, but he hadn't had the cough so much this summer and he was able to help. He kept telling himself that he'd show his Pa. He'd show him. Still, he was surprised when a few days later his father said to his mother, "Well, Ma, the boy there is looking right spry. Tim Jones needs someone to help thin beets. He needs him now. Think you can spare Denny?" Ma looked up sharply from peeling potatoes, hesitated, then said, 228 "Why, yes, I 'spect... If you think best." "Sure, it'll do him good. Get a few of his things ready and I'll drive him over on my way to sce Spence." Denny hadn't ever slept away from home; he couldn't imagine not sleeping in the same house, not waking to see the shadow of the apple tree on his window... Yet, maybe, this was his chance. Still, it was hard to kcep a wobbling out of his knees when he saw Ma packing his shirts and socks. He thought there were tears in her eyes—like raindrops in harebell cups—but, when she looked up she was smiling, proud like. And he felt taller when Pa said, "Mind yerself. Do yore job, but don't let him drive you too hard." He felt like bursting, yet he didn't speak for fear it would spoil this moment, saying goodbye, climbing into the old car beside his Pa— like another man Yet, after three days at the Jones'. Place, he knew that he was more than a little homesick. No full week had ever seemed so long. The sun had been sweltering in the beet fields; the nights had been sticky hot in the small attic room where he slept with the smell of dust and heat. He kept wondering what they were doing at home. He pictured them, morning, noon, and night. He longed for the feel of Tip's moist nose nuzzled against his hand, his small, furry body pressed against his leg. He missed Ma's smile, the questions she asked, he missed Pa's booming voice, his sureness. No one here had talked to him much. Mrs. Jones was always hot and cross. But then she had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 five kids littler than he was, so he couldn't blame her. Mr. Jones tried to be jolly, but there was something forced about it and he was stingy and mean in little ways, not at all like Pa. On Tuesday, Mr. Jones said at the dinner table, "We'd best hurry up. Looks like a storm's coming," and Denny, with food still in his mouth, got up and followed the man outside, took his hoe, and went to the ficlds. By Friday the clouds overhead really began to move together in great clusters of darkness. It looked like storm, sure enough. The water in the ditch below the field was red from the clay dirt above, the sun that had been bright carlier was dulled' to gray—a strange, dark grayness that hung over the world like the faded shawl Ma wore gathering eggs in the wintertime. And now the clouds were moving as though giant hands were pushing them swiftly, making the sky almost black. The air was moist and cool even while it took your breath away with its heaviness. DENNY'S hand felt wet on the shovel handle; there was a strange tremor in it. He had heard tell of the floods that had come down into the valley from the hills, terrible floods that tore down houses and sent boulders crashing into everything. He had never seen one and never really feared it since their place was on a hill nearly two miles from here. The water looked red for sure now and there was a flood-smell in - the air. He had smelled it oncewhen the creek back of the west (Continued on page 283) Relief Society Building Pheins HE names of the following branches in missions have not previously been published in The Relief Society Magazine as having completed their Building Fund quotas: Amecameca Branch, Mexican Mission Atlixco Branch, Mexican Mission Auckland Branch, New Zealand Mission Awapuni Branch, New Zealand Mission Awarua Branch, New Zealand Mission Canal Zone Branch, Mexican Mission Guerrero Branch, Mexican Mission Hamilton Branch, New Zealand Mission Heretaunga Branch, New Zealand Mission Hiona Branch, New Zealand Mission Huria Branch, New Zealand Mission Kaikohe Branch, New Zealand Mission Kaikou Branch, New Zealand Mission Kaiuku Branch, New Zealand Mission Kiri Kirk Branch, New Zealand Mission Korongata Branch, New Zealand Mission LaCaseta Branch, Mexican Mission Mahoenui Branch, New Zealand Mission Maromaku Branch, New Zealand Mission Matokowhai Branch, New Zealand Mission Mataraua Branch, _New Zealand Mission Mokau Branch, New Zealand Mission Monterey Branch, Mexican Mission Ngawha Branch, New Zealand Mission Nuhaka Branch, New Zealand Mission Opoutama Branch, New Zealand Mission Ounaruku Branch, New Zealand Mission Rangioto Branch, New Zealand Mission Rotorua Branch, New Zealand Mission San Buenaventura Branch, Mexican Mission San Gabriel Branch, Mexican Mission San Marcos Branch, Mexican Mission San Pablo Branch, Mexican Mission San Pedro Branch, Mexican Mission Tahaenui Branch, New Zealand Mission Tamaki Branch, New Zealand Mission Taumarunui Branch, New Zealand Mission Tautoro Branch, New Zealand Mission Te Awamutu Branch, New Zealand Mission Te Hapara Branch, New Zealand Mission Te Hauke Branch, New Zealand Mission Te Horo Branch, New Zealand Mission Te Hue Hue Branch, New 'Zealand | Mission Thames Branch, New Zealand Mista 'Uawa Branch, New Zealand Mission Utakura Branch, New Zealand Mission Waihou Branch, New Zealand Mission Waikare Branch, New Zealand Mission Waimamaku Branch, New Zealand. Mission Wairoa Branch, New Zealand Mission. Whangarei Branch, New Zealand Mission _ Whangaroa Branch, New Zealand Mission -Whangaruru Branch, New Zealand Mission - Page 229 Our Political Inheritance Elder G. Homer Durham Director, Institute of Government, University of Utah HE twentieth century faces the future with a question: can free societies endure? Our cultural inheritance from the past includes the ideals of a free society. That same inheritance, however, includes absolutism, dictatorship, regimentation, slavery, and control. Freedom and control are twin aspects of any society. As modern men and women face the issue of free society in the twentieth century, it is well to be informed as to the precious nature of the inheritance we have received from the past in order to preserve freedom. Greek Ideals Regarding Government and Citizenship About six hundred years before Christ, events took a remarkable turn in the Hellenic world. Political society began to move slowly towards a situation where men could live in freedom and choose their own way of life. During the fifth century B. C., democracy flourished at Athens. From this period we derive the bulk of our ideals regarding government and citizenship today. What is this inheritance from the past? 'The principal name associated with the establishment of Athenian democracy (510-492 B. C.) is that of Cleisthenes. Under Cleisthenes the constitution of Athens was reformed in such a way as to provide for the development of democracy. Athenian democPage 230. Racy reached its peak during the age of Pericles (463-431 B. C.). This Athenian experience has been immortalized in the writings of Thucydides, in the plays and dramas of Aristophanes, and in the great philosophical wnitings of Plato and Aristotle. Chief among the ideals set forth in Greek experience is that of individual political participation. It is true that Greek democracy rested on a foundation of slavery. The Greeks recognized the existence of slavery as natural. Later societies, rejecting this notion, have undertaken to extend the ideals of Greek citizenship to all their peoples. This is the effort being made in many western countries today, including the United States of America. In ancient Athens every citizen (but not the slave) was a member of the Ecclesia (the Assembly). Public service was looked upon as the highest form of individual expression. The juries of ancient Athens denote the same principle. In modern life too many citizens try to avoid jury service. In Athens, the juries were large, numbering into the hundreds. Service on juries and participation in the discussion of the assembly were eagerly awaited. Not only was the ideal of individual political participation inculcated into the Greek mind but also the ideal of individual responsibility for the welfare of society. Nowadays many people are willing OUR POLITICAL INHERITANCE to enjoy rights and privileges. Very few realistically realize that for every right and privilege there may be a great duty and responsibility. HE ideal of individual responsibility for the welfare of society is nowhere set forth more clearly and more effectively than in Plato's dialogue, The Protagoras. In this great dialogue, Plato has one of his characters explain why it is that men are able to live together in society and not destroy themselves. The dialogue dramatically sets forth the concept that man is a child of God, that man shares in the divine attributes. 'That when "the desire of self preservation gathered them into cities... They evil entreated one another and were again in process of dispersion and destruction. Zeus feared that the race would be exterminated, and so he _ sent Hermes to them, bearing reverence and justice to be the ordering principles of cities and the bonds of friendship and conciliation." Accordingly, to the Greek mind, characteristic in man's nature are the qualities of reverence and justice. The good citizen should live so that these principles are expressed in his life. In interesting style Plato provides a democratic basis for society in describing how these virtues were distributed by the great Greek gods. As we read further in Protagoras: Hermes asked Zeus how he should impart justice and reverence among men: should he distribute them as the arts are distributed? That is to say, to a favored few only? For one skilled individual has enough of medicine or of any other art. Shall this be the manner in which I distribute justice and reverence among men? 231 Or shall I give them to all? "To all," said Zeus, "I should like them all to have a share. For cities cannot exist if a few only share in the virtues as in the arts. And further make a law by my order, that he who has no part in reverence and justice shall be put to death as a plague of the state." In another of Plato's dialogues, The Phaedo, Plato discusses the great doctrine of the pre-existence and the immortality of the soul. The Phaedo is actually the description of the death of the great Greek teacher Socrates. 'Towards the conclusion of the dialogue, Plato places this great speech in the mouth of Socrates as he is about to end his earthly journey: "But then, oh my friends," he said, "if the soul is really immortal what care should be taken of her not only in respect of the portion of time which is called life, but of eternity!" This quotation indicates the great value with which the Greeks in their greatest moments, held the dignity and value of human life. The quest for justice, the stimulus towards training the mind, to be educated, to develop the ability to foresee and to anticipate the problems of the future, the ideals of checks and balances, of limited constitutionalism and government— all these are numbered with our inheritance from the Greeks. Roman Ideals Regarding Government and Law The Roman republic flourished from about 50g B. C. Down to the time of Julius Caesar, about 46 B. C. The Roman Republic was inhabited by a hearty yeomanry. The story of the Roman mother, Cor- 232 nelia, is typical. Cornelia was the mother of the two significant Roman reformers Tiberius and Gaius Gracchus. Both of the Gracchi eventually lost their lives as the result of their efforts to help their people. The story is told that one of Cornelia's neighbors called upon her, exhibiting her marvelous collection of jewelry. The noble Roman mother called in her two sons and said, simply, "These are my jewels." The Roman Republic' evidences the ideals of self-government and popular participation as found also in ancient Greece. 'The Roman Republic developed the office of the tribune. The persons of the tribunes were inviolable. Acting on behalf of the welfare of the people, they were given power to veto the action of any public officer found harmful to the people. In turn, the tribunes were subject to popular control of the elected assembly. However, it is in the field of law and administration that we derive our greatest inheritance from Roman experience. In Rome developed the great Jus Gentium. Translated, this phrase means simply "law of peoples," or as it is sometimes called, "law of nations." The Romans had the great capacity in the evolution of their political life to adopt a legal system which provided a basis in_ principle for equality of treatment to all the people of the Mediterranean world—a_ marvelous accomplishment. As such the Roman law spread throughout the entire European world. Today it provides the basis for the jurisprudence of Continental Europe. It has also influRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 enced the making and enforcement of law throughout the entire world. Under this great empire with its great Roman law, public administration also flourished. From about 46 B. C. To the second century A. D., a period of virtually unbroken peace existed. This period of time is called the Pax Romana (Roman Peace). Jesus of Nazareth was born into this world that knew the Pax Romana. The contribution that Roman law and _ administration made toward a safe, secure world in which St. Paul, the great Christian missionary, could deliver his message has had lasting significance for all mankind. The Ideals of English Liberty England has been called the "mother of parliaments." England is the traditional home of government by consent of the governed, majority rule, civil liberty, and representative institutions. It is also the home of the rule of law as developed through an independent judicial system. The net result of our English inheritance is embodied in the phrase "fair play." On the tomb of one of the barons who forced King John at Runnymede (June 1215) to sign the Magna Charta appears the following inscription: "Magna Charta Is_ the Law and Let the King Look Out!" Even before Magna Charta, the line of English evolution may be said to have turned towards the development of free institutions and the idcal of liberty under law. When William the Norman conquered England in 1066, he adopted an ancient Saxon practice, expanding the same into the device called, OUR POLITICAL INHERITANCE 233 "The Great Council of the Norman lish eovernment, The foundations King" (magnum Concilium). From OL modern Constitutionalism Stem this Great Council of the Norman argely from nitish experience of kings began to evolve, in the twelfth the Seventeenth centy Century, the great system of Eno. € American Tevolution was o¢ lish law courts Ith the 6 Must recejye " | Of 1688-8. Law. Parliament What of ciyj] 1; Sovernment also of this cultural jn. Heritance will be discussed In an article to follow Gaster Belle W. Anderson; Faster is an angel of light, i 0 still; Rolling dark Stones awa no ue SHlence of the Place Tom the sepulchre of night's despair ung Tain upon my face, Into eterna] day seeming slumbering Long Lassi your care," he said She may have lived her three-score years nn touched his flesh, then laid An en, yes, even m Te IS hand on Cart-torn Mary, € may have fallen ent in anguish as she prayed Ah, many years before. Tenderly he lifted.. _ Perhaps she found Contentment The trembling body Swayed, Children Playing round her door— IS arm across her shoulder, With older Carts to love her They walked on side by side. And little feet to guide— ere is no more of Mary told Until Jesus met h Since the day that Jesus died, €r at the gate The day that Mary died. Thunderstorm Mary Ek Knowles shopping bag that hung on the hook by the stove. She heard the kitchen door creak as it swung open and she knew, without turning around, that Bob was standing in the doorwayHer hand closed twine handle. Ms reached for the papet tight over the She shut her eyes and thought, if he says, "Going somewhere, baby?" Tl] scream, because he knows I at this time every morning. "Going somewhere, baby?" say, "Skip it, B Three months ago she wouldn't have hesitated. But then Bob had been well. He had been section boss at Amalgamated Lumbet and Construction Company. He'd been catch on the plant baseball team.-- - Now everything was different. When the lumber mill burned Bob had rescued five of his workers from Bob was a hero. He had a medal and a pension for life, but he had badly burned lungs, too. And he would be a semi-invalid for the rest of his life. Myra thought of the Hendersons the cornet Mr. Henderson had been a semr invalid from a back injury. The old couple quarreled a great deal and since the fire they had become to Myra the horrible example of what she and Bob could become, if she wasn't careful. 'Two people Page 234 chained together through duty and obligation, not love. We'll never bicker and quarrel like the Hendersons, she vowed, and she turned around, her lips tilted in a smile, her eyes Very blue. She gave the same answer she had given every morning since Bob came home from the hospital two months ago, "Yes, | thought I'd run down to the market." "Bring me a magazine, will you?" Bob stood with hands on his hips. Sometimes it was difficult to T€ member how ill he was. He looked just the same, his face tuggedly handsome, his auburn hair curling in tight waves. He was wearing 4 white tee shirt with AC on the front. Once Bob had played baseball. Now he had to lie down and rest after the least exertion. She She said, "Yes, darling. I'll bring you the latest magazines." She lifted her mouth for his kiss. His lips scarcely touched hers. Her mind snagged on the fact, and then she looked into the living room and onto the glassed-in front porch that had become "Bob's comer." It was a shambles again, Bob's pajamas on the big chair, 4 jigsaw puzzle dumped on the card table, maga zines and papers tumbled onto the floor. Twice already this morning she had straightened Bob's cornet! Couldn't he at least pick his things up! She saw Bob looking at her in that new, watchful way he had. THUNDERSTORM "Something wrong?" he asked, and his voice was curiously tight. "Wrong?" she said brightly. "No, of course not." "Well, hurry back." It was almost the final touch, like the final drop of a dripping tap that sends one hurtling into madness. Must he say that every time she left the house? She smiled, "Be right back." HE walked out the back door, down the steps, and around the side of the house. And her steps took her around the block rather than pass the Hendersons. I won't hurry back! She started to cry, tears she brushed angrily away as quickly as they formed. She thought, oh, what's wrong with me. I do love you, Bob. She remembered the scene in the hospital and the doctor telling her, "If by some miracle your husband lives he will be a semi-invalid." And she could hear her words, "I don't care. If only he'll live!" "You're very young, Mrs. Fortest," the doctor had said kindly. "Tt's not easy." "T love Bob, Doctor, and I want to be with him no matter what happens. I'll never complain!" And now she could hardly wait to get away. She had been braced for the big emergencies that would arise. But there hadn't been any. After the testimonial dinner for Bob, after the publicity had died down, their life had settled into a dull, quiet pattern. She thought, I'll be all nght. It's just the heat and I didn't sleep last night. Bob was prowling around, opening and closing the icebox, 235 tuming on taps, leaving them dripping. She took the grocery list from her purse and studied it. From force of habit she walked fast. Have to hurry back... Take care of Bob The large super-market was crowded, but cool. She was walking towards the meat counter when a voice called, "Myra Forrest!" It was Peggy Linford and it was quite apparent that she was going to have a baby. "Peggy!" She and Peggy had worked in "Ruth's Book Nook" back in Habberton. Myra's hand went out to the other girl and she thought, oh, I wish I were going to have a baby, but it's impossible with the way things are. "What are you doing in Scoville, Peggy?" "Phil's company just transferred him here." "We must get together." "Let's plan to go dancing as soon as Junior is born," Peggy said. Myra's throat tightened. "Bob was injured in the lumber mill fire. He'll never dance again." "Oh, I'm terribly sorry." Peggy looked almost as if she were going to cry. "Oh, we're not so badly off," Myra said quickly. "Bob gets a pension for life. He isn't in bed or anything like that. But he can't work. He just stays home and rests a great deal." "And you take care of him?" "Oh, yes. Certainly." "You poor darling." The sympathy in Peggy's voice was very real, and all at once Myra had a picture of herself patiently caring for Bob. She had never thought of it quite that way before. 236 It was strangely comforting. She pushed her hair back and said quietly, "Oh, I love doing it. After all, I am his wife, you know. No sacrifice is too great." "Oh, yes, I know, Myra. I adore Phil, too, but. "Remember the fun we used to have at the 'Book Nook'?" She didn't want Peggy to say anything that would disturb the picture in her mind, the. Picture of her sacrificing herself for Bob. Now, and down through the years to come. "Oh, PI never forget. Did you know that Ruth is opening a shop here in Scoville?" Peggy asked. "She wants me to come and work for her after the baby is born, but of course I can't. But I know she would give the job to you." The job would be hers for the asking. And it would help out. Bob's pension was very modest. Her spirits soared and then flattened. "Oh, no, I couldn't. Bob." "Even for half a day?" "IT wouldn't think of leaving Bob." She was not aware that she stood very tall, that her smile was heroically brave. Peggy patted her arm. An angel, Myra. Angel." Again there was that strange, new, intoxicating feeling. "Oh, no, I'm not an angel, Peggy. I'm just doing my duty, as any wife would." HEY parted soon after. Myra crossed ground beef off her list and bought steak. It would pinch her budget, but she would go without something herself so Bob could have the best. The Hendersons were quarreling again. She heard their voices as "You're A patient, good RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 she turned the corner. "You can just as well sit in the lawn swing, Zach Henderson! Least until I get the porch washed off!" "Don't need to wash the porch off again, and danged if I'm going to move!" Myra was even with the Henderson's now. She could see Mr. Henderson in the rocking chair on the front porch, his feet on the railing, and Mrs. Henderson standing over him, a broom in her hand. "You'll move!" She nodded her head so vigorously that the white bun of hair quivered. "Or I'll squirt the hose on you full force!" She marched down the steps, dropped the broom, picked up the hose and turned it on. "Okay, I'm movin' then!" Mr. Henderson swung his feet down from the railing and stomped angrily down the porch steps and across the lawn, short and bow-legged, his white hair seeming to stand on end with anger. "Plagued woman! Think we was goin' to eat off the ([ porch! I'll never talk to Bob like that, Myra thought. Never. Someday people would say, "Little Mrs. Forrest... SO patient... Never a cross word " 'The feeling she had had when she was talking to Peggy deepened until it was like warm, sweet honey. She opened the back door of her house, called gaily, "I'm home, Bob. Everything all right?" There was no answer. Something had happened. "Bob!" 'Terror jagged her voice. She hurried into the front room and stopped. Bob was sitting in the big chair in his corner reading a book. You could nN Asi the ang Paid. "Dari; | He looked up "Yeah?" won't. Y." She turned dear?" ack to the kitchen; but Bob Was "Oh the fork 'to m id he expect 4, live on "Would you mind atching the his Pension if he didn't CO-Operate! A wee make ae pci She Eot potatoes Cut of the sack, oor a Bob's come all open - Plumped them Into a Pan, and '; turned the Water on with 4 gush. Picks d mee as Sy order. She "What ind of Potatoes?" Bop Was standing over her like e0wn Aire neat pile an 4N Over.. And smal] Inside or I Tavy ] Wouldn't fee S the icebox from yesterday," The Paring knife hac la "do. But if you. Weren't nob] " YOU made yourself ed into g potat So, C Strengtheneg the fraye "Whoa, there, honey Not that fabric of her soy] with good Teso Way. You've §0t a lot of Waste moutions 10n, Peelin from th top; "'Steak's ne, honey!" use long, Tapid strokes " USt Outsid € kitch Her han were suddenly trem- 238 perate. Dinner with Bob and her sitting across from each other not talking. After two months of each other's company twenty-four hours a day—what was there left to talk about! No reliving a ball game, deciding what Smith should have done on second base when George hit a two-bagger. No office gossip. Dinner was an ordeal. 'Twice she started to mention her meeting with Peggy and then stopped. Peggy... That would make Bob remember dancing. She was relieved when Bob put his napkin down and stood up. "You go and rest while I wash the dishes." She didn't mention that she was going to iron afterwards. Maybe he would sleep until she was through. She knew some degree of peace washing the dishes alone. There was no sound from the other room. Quietly she pulled the ironing board down from the wall. It squeaked on its hinges. She heard Bob coming. Not again. Not ironing while Bob kibitzed, "Look, honey, if you'll just be a bit more scientific, that shirt's going to be a whole lot easier to iron " Swiftly, she put the board back again. She was securing the door just as Bob walked into the kitchen. "Aren't you going to 'ron?" He looked disappointed. "No, I'm tired. Thought I'd finish that story I started last night." She walked past him into the living room. It was incredible that in the few minutes Bob had been alone he could have so wrecked his corner. But he had. Again the magazines were spread out open on the floor. She bent and picked one up, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 straightened slowly, as Bob yelled, "Leave my things alone. It took me fifteen minutes to fix them just the way I wanted!" Bob had an expression on his face like Mr. Henderson when he stomped down the porch steps. Myra bent and placed the magazine back on the floor and she had a picture of herself through the years, growing thin and frail, looking after Bob. Poor little Mrs. Forrest a veritable angel. It was a touching picture. She said gently, "I'r: sorry, darling. I didn't realizc. "You're not sorry! " Why don't you say what you really think! It annoys you the way I mess things up!" "Why, what do you mean?" The picture of the frail, patient Myra was no longer touching. There was a tenseness in the air like the ominous quiet before a storm. Bob's fingers ruffled his hair and his words ripped through the air like forked lightning. "I'm fed up with your Florence Nightingale role. You're getting to be a martyr and you're beginning to enjoy it!" "A martyr! You've got a lot of nerve!" The anger within her ignited like gasoline, and all at once the grievances she had held back came flaming out. They stood in the center of the room shouting at each other, and their words were like claps of thunder. "If you're so fed up, why don't you leave me, then?" he growled. "T will. I'm going to get a job at the bookstore!" "T wish you would!" (Continued on page 281) Through the Darkness Hazel K. Todd \ 7ITH an aching heart Re becca watched the little girl playing with her doll. The child, with her good little left hand, tugged at the blanket she was trying to wrap around the dolly, then, because she couldn't make it go the way she wanted it to, she held one corner in her mouth while she arranged it around the rubber infant. Never once did she so much as raise the little right hand that hung lifeless at her side, the small fingers curled around like tiny bird claws. "Make your other little hand help," Rebecca pleaded, but, as always, it was no use. "T just can't, Mother," the little girl said, indifferently, and straightway left the room, carrying the doll in. One arm while the blanket dragged behind. "Oh, there is no use," whispered Rebecca. Not even the mechanical words of "next time" found a place in her mind now. It was senseless to fool herself. Linda's hand was useless. The little fingers that had been full of pep and vitality only three months ago, were useless now, cut on a piece of glass, made to hang numb and unnatural, all their spontaneity gone. "Wait," the doctors said, "Wait a little longer. Cut nerves and tendons are slow to heal. Perhaps in time." She had waited, waited three long months, each day when she awoke, hoping that maybe today Linda could move the hand just a little. But each day went by the same, and Page 240 each night when she tucked her into bed she breathed again the prayer, "Qh, dear God, make my little girl's hand well." But it was not well. And there was no sign that it would ever be well so far as she could see. And now even the doctor looked grave when he said, "Wait a little longer." By the window where she stood, she turned her eyes out across the garden already beginning to take on the look of autumn. A few dark clouds floated uneasily across the sky. As she watched, a flood of homesickness choked her, a yearning for the home and friends she had left behind six months ago. Perhaps if her husband had not been transferred, perhaps this terrible accident would not have happened. She longed for the feeling of security and peace she had known, not this dreary sensation of hopelessness and heartache. Hot tears stung her eyes. But as she looked she hurriedly dabbed them away with the corner of her apron, for she could see her neighbor, Mrs. Werry, coming up the path, car rying a half dozen faded gladioli. Rebecca straightened her apron and opened the door to meet the sagging face of Mrs. Werry. "Come in," she said and motioned to a chair. The pudgy form of Mrs. Werry sank heavily into the chair while her hand wiped the perspiration from her brow. "I told Hebe I just had to come in and see how you were, you poor thing," she began in THROUGH THE DARKNESS her expressionless voice. "No matter how I feel myself, after all, I don't have a child with her hand cut off." She folded her big hands with the few gladioli in her lap and heaved a weary sigh. Rebecca struggled to keep back the tears that threatened again. She dared not speak. "T stopped by little Linda out there," the toneless voice went on. "Her poor little hand. She just can't use it at all, can she?" "No." Rebecca stared at the window. "Not at all." "You know I had a cousin who had a boy with his hand cut that way." Oh, no! Rebecca felt she just couldn't stand to hear the account again, how his fingers never recovered and were always stiff and useless. "Those flowers, did—did you raise them?" she asked. The woman looked down at the meager bouquet. "Yes," she said dully. "I thought a few flowers might brighten you up a little. I did intend to get more, but my back is so lame. Must be rheumatism." "You shouldn't have bothered," Rebecca said. "No bother. Only, as I always tell Hebe, what good are flowers if you have so. Much misery that a body can't stand to look at them." Rebecca took the flowers and placed them in a vase. Mrs. Werry wiped the perspiration from her face again. "Deary me, it's hot. I tell Hebe it's hot as the middle of the summer. 'Takes the energy right out of a person." REBECCA _half-consciously arranged the flowers in the vase 241 while she gazed through the window again to where Linda played with her doll by the sandbox. She was picking goldenglows that hung over the fence, picking them with her one little hand and carrying them to cover her doll. Rebecca watched while the child collected a golden mound on the grass; then she sat and lifted them by handfuls into her apron. Now she was trying to gather the folds of cloth with her one hand. But they kept slipping away. "Raise the other hand, just a bit,' Rebecca kept whispering in her mind. But no, finally the one little hand had gathered the folds of cloth, and Linda skipped away to the doll in its yellow bed, while she sang a gay little tune. But the one little hand had not been quite efficient enough. The apron began to sag and the flowers to tumble. Painstakingly, the little girl tried with one hand to rescue the flowers. "Please bring up the other one, oh, please, darling, bring up the other little hand," whispered Rebecca. But the apron dropped, the hand remained hanging, and the flowers fell in a bright tumble over the grass. Rebecca breathed a tired sigh and suddenly became aware of the dull voice of Mrs. Werry flowing on and on like an endless stream. "And just think of butter a dollar a pound. Seems like some of us poor folks will just have to starve pretty soon." Rebecca turned her attention back to her visitor. "Almost, I guess," she said because she felt she must say something. "Well, I must go back," Mrs. Werry said, wiping her face again. 242 "Seems like there's never any time for a body to sit a minute. I put some pickles on the stove. Such a lot of work peeling onions and cucumbers. I shouldn't make them. Hebe can't eat them any more. Has a bad stomach, you know. But the boys insist on having them." But she didn't go at once to attend her pickles. She remained sitting and wiping her face. It was another fifteen minutes before Rebecca watched her finally go out the gate and down the path to her home, "My new home," she said half aloud, as the heavy steps of her visitor died away. Mrs. Werry with her perspiring brow and her cousin's boy who never recovered, and her own little Linda with only one hand. She sat listlessly on the arm of the big chair and gazed disinterestedly out of the window. The clouds had gathered and hung black and foreboding in the west. Her throat ached. Suddenly she covered her face with her hands and cried long, choking sobs. After a time she became aware of the merry whistle of her husband coming up the path. The new resentment that had been growing on her lately, filled her. How could he be so gay? What was there to be merry about? Didn't he realize that their little child must go through life crippled and handicapped? She heard his footsteps on the porch now. Again she dried her tears on her apron and slid down into the chair with her back to the door. Now she heard him open the door. "Becky, oh, Becky, where RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 are you?" he called in his free, impulsive voice. With a half-guilty feeling, she remained silent. 'Then she felt his footsteps coming noiselessly toward her. Did he think he could keep her from knowing he was coming? Why, he had never even been able to walk without waking Linda when she was a baby. She felt his two strong hands on her face, covering her eyes. "Three guesses to tell who it is," he said. "So, I caught you napping." Quickly she pulled his hands away. "As if I didn't know who you are. Who else would be coming here? And I don't sit sleeping. I have too many things to think about," she said angrily, and then she looked into his face and _halfway she wished she could recall the words. But he sat on the arm of the chair and put his arm around her shoulders. "Listen, Becky, dear, we are invited to go out dancing with the Daltons tonight. Look, it's just what you need. Please don't say no this time. Jack told me where to get a good baby tender." "Oh, Larry, how can you think of going dancing? Dancing when our little girl's hand hangs useless and reminds you every breath you breathe. I don't ever want to dance again. Not ever as long as I live. Besides, I hate this place. If we hadn't come here we wouldn't have had this terrible trouble." She slid out of his arm and, without looking into his face, went out of the room, the hot tears burning her eyes. T seemed impossible to go to sleep. Rebecca had watched THROUGH THE DARKNESS Larry playing with Linda, bouncing her around on his back while he, on his hands and knees, was a pony that bucked and galloped. Never once had he seemed to notice her little nght hand that hung useless. It didn't seem to bother him that she had to cling frantically with one hand to stay on his back. Then he had played "This little pig went to market," with her toes, and he recited a piece about the beggars coming to town. He had not mentioned the dancing party again. Now he lay slecping peacefully while she tossed about on her pillow thinking and thinking until she wanted to scream. It was sultry hot. Now and then she could hear a few far-off growls of thunder, probably the last electric storm of the year. A late mosquito that had found its way into the room buzzed its singsong above her head. Twice she arose and went into Linda's room, but both times the child lay quietly sleeping. At last she fell into a troubled sleep where she walked alone in a thick darkness hunting for Linda who was crying and whom she could not reach. She was awakened suddenly by a loud clap of thunder. She sat up quickly in bed. For a minute her world was foreign and illusive there in the dark, and then aching reality crept slowly back. It was still night and the night had already been far too long. Would it never end? She pulled the blind on the window and peered into the darkness. A quick flash of lightning revealed a brief picture in the yard. In that second she saw a heap of yellow with the face of a doll peeping from under the cover. Linda's doll! She had 243 left it out where she was playing. The rain would come and spoil its head. She must go get it. From the closet she secured her robe and slippers and hurriedly put them on before the rain came. Out in the darkness she waited for a flash of lightning to show her the yellow bed. It came and she saw it almost at her feet. She saw the doll's face with its sleeping eyes and its rosy cheeks; and she saw the golden flowers freshened already by a few splashes of rain, lying close together as neatly as though two little hands instead of one had placed them there. She stooped and reached for the doll in the darkness. Her hand fell into the soft bed of flowers. She paused a minute. A curious thought struck her. It was amazing what Linda had learned to do with her left hand. She was naturally nght-handed, and yet, now that her right hand was of no use, She had taken to the other with quickly gained efficiency. Because she was so young. At three it was easy to form new habits. And she would grow and learn to do other things as thoroughly as she had placed the flowers together. God was merciful when he made _ two hands. She should be glad that Linda had one good hand. And then another thought came to her with vivid revelation. Linda was happy with her one hand. She had skipped and sung as she had built her flower bed. Was there a chance that she, herself, might spoil that happiness in her constant remindings and neyer-ending worry? She raised her hand and reached for the doll. Her fingers rested on its cold plastic head. She lifted it 244 and stood yp, A splash of rain fel] On her throat a he had played with Linda Nd she Pulled the Magazi " Tead s zine, or brought Work home Soft folds of her robe closer around fro the office. ET neck, C Tesentment had stadually Another flash igh {ning showed 8TOWn on her because he didn' cr the path CIry's— "ily, with h {seem 3 if Worry about Linda's hand. A "T Sagging face and | her eterna] sighs - Could jt be that She was on the Way to becomin anOther Mrs Werr SCOvered that all her Worty and heartache had not helped y? Perhaps some. Linda. It w Larry who TOde her time she wo Id go to her eighbor's on his back, and laughed with her 4nd carry a fe straggling Plants ang ho kept h "PPy. A tender fee] Sit and talk f theuma SM and the Ng came her and some of the Price of butt Peace she had known; er old CT Was a her quick flash, a hom Oud peal of th t, and the In Came down Splashing her in the face SHE awoke with a 'Tamped fee]. And on the hands. She slipped the ing in her Neck. She Wisted her doll into hey tobe and Walked into}, ad pai S m er knees ache and he Ithout ¢ TMing on the light, slie PS Stic ng in tl Carefully, she Sat on th an, slipped Off her Wet straightened th t onto the S"ppers, and utled he feet under floor. Far y sunshine S streamin €T as she used to do When she was throug he win emem ber. 4 little gir], It was dark an quiet ing the s Ml, § and she could think. O What did it matnes while Couples ter? The Was stil] brightness in talked ang need gaily, She won. The world. Cred if the Daltons would ever ask A Slight Noise jn Inda's room "TM again. She ha ct them once aught her atte tion an When they fj { came. Th Y had in. An d vited Larry ang her t " With its ¢ r n Ith peop] Rebecca oked from the little hand 4d tried to get her t L0 with h Mm, Testing on the covers up to Larry's and when sh had Tefused each, (Continued on The Family Hour in Latter-day Saint Homes Lucy Grant Cannon Former General President, Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association Stay, stay at home my heart and rest; Homekeeping hearts are happiest, For those that wander they know not where Are full of trouble and full of care; To stay at home is best. NE of the slogans of the () National Recreation Association is "The family that plays together stays together." Brother Oscar A. Kirkham has added to this another significant phrase: "The family that prays together stays together." Every Latter-day Saint father and mother wants to have a family solidarity. The Latter-day Saints' con- —_; RESO EES Sn neem WILLARD R. AND FLORENCE GRANT SMITH FAMILY PARTY —Longfellow ception of family and its ultimate place in this life and in eternity makes the family unit the most important one in all the world. The physical needs of the family are imperative; food must be provided or the body starves and dies. Hence, the physical care of the child is one of the first requirements of parents. But within every person is a spiritual being like in stature to as: | Emigration Canyon, Summer 1948 The. Father stands at the swing, left, and the mother is seen at the left of the wagon. Page 245 246 the physical, and this: spiritual being needs and requires spiritual food or it starves and dies. The knowledge which Latter-day Saints have of this dual nature makes it paramount that physical and spiritual growth go hand in hand to build a complete man or woman. Among the early revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, we read that Father Adam when he was bowed with age called his posterity together at Adam-ondi-Ahman and there blessed his family, telling them what would happen to each succeeding generation from then until the end of time (Doc. & Cov. 107:53-50). It is the most natural thing in a ai RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 the world for parents and children to desire to be together. Parents long for the companionship of their children, and children long for the companionship of their parents. To the mothers I really think belongs the responsibility of stimulating the Family Hour. Perhaps a thought we should keep in mind as mothers is that our children are Heavenly Father's children and that we are only their earthly parents, and that we are responsible to him for our treatment of them. We should also keep in mind that we mothers have the most glorious' mission of any mothers who have yet lived on the earth. We have tabernacled those spirit children who have been kept in reserve RES Se SR i GEORGE J. AND LUCY GRANT CANNON CHRISTMAS PARTY 1945 Front row, left to right: Thomas C. Lloyd; George C. Heninger; Bertram C. Willis; Heber J. Lloyd; John C. Heninger. Second row: Virginia B. Cannon; Jean C. Willis; child, Lou Jean Willis; George J. Cannon; Lucy Grant Cannon; Augusta Winters Grant (wife of President Heber J. Grant); Rachel C. Heninger; Lucy C. Dutson; child, Elizabeth Ann Dutson; Irene C. Lloyd. Third row: Heber S. Cannon; Bertram T. Willis; Lucy Jayne Lloyd; George I. Cannon; Irene Lloyd; Earl Heninger; Mary Lou Heninger; Owen P. Heninger; Keith C. Dutson; E. Thomas Lloyd. THE FAMILY HOUR IN LATTER-DAY SAINT HOMES for this specific time, "the dispensation of the fulness of times." We should also appreciate that we live at a time when woman and her mission are honored as_ they have never been before in the world's history; that we share in the blessings of the holy Priesthood; that we have the opportunity of having at the head of our family a man who holds the holy Priesthood. Se we come to the problem of how to keep the family together, and as parents lead them to seek for the worthwhile things of life that they may be bound to us for time and all eternity. The Lord admonished the saints early in their history to teach their children the principles of the gospel, and if this was neglected the sins of the children would fall upon the heads of the parents. It is to be hoped that most Latter-day Saint parents recognize the teaching of the gospel as a paramount duty; that they do pray with their children; they do encourage them to seek first the kingdom of God and its righteousness. The Church program affords many opportunities to stress and teach righteous living. The blessing of a child should be a-day when the family gather and rejoice together that a new member has been added to their group. The ordination of the boys to the Priesthood and their advancement in the Priesthood 247 should be noted; the missionary and his or her farewell and homecoming; the boys and girls as they receive recognition in Sunday School, M. I. A., seminary, and other Church activities all make wonderful opportunities for family gatherings. Summertime, special holidays, such as Christmas, Thanksgiving, Washington's and Lincoln's birthdays, Valentines, family birthdays, vacation days, ward outings, reunions, and special days, all make opportunities for families to celebrate together. George Cannon's _ birthday has been a red-letter day in my life since my marriage forty-six years ago. On that day tributes to that great missionary and spiritual leader are paid and his life's work reviewed. Each year the members of his family are made to appreciate their great sire more and more. My father, President Grant's birthday has likewise been celebrated, and I hope all their lives his children and his children's children to the latest generation will recall in song and story his achievements as a father and a devoted servant of God and his fellow men. There are few families in the Church who do not have a _ background of ancestry that will make any gathering faith-promoting and interesting. And so a splendid resolution for us mothers should be, "Let's get the family together often." ——— 5; pring Beatrice Knowlton: Ekman Now Spring, with scented blossoms in her hair, Walks hand in hand with April down the land And all the trees their virgin mantles wear; Bird song and hum of bees are heard again. Norma Wrathal] T was on the fourth day of Oc community was called Willow il tober 1850, that t ° men rode Creek atcr, the nam Was changed into the valley est of Tooele, to Crantsville In honor of George tah, and looked '3 Out for g Place MM Grant, a TOther of Jedediah O start a settlement. H Same Grant George Grant, 4 colonel jn tive Prompted them that leq Other the Nauvoo gion, was Sent b Pioneers to brave the hazards of the Brigha Young 'to take large of "sert, danger from | dians, ang he defen f the little settlement the fear of th nknown, It was bl it coulg C SO itself. Early j he love of the S°spel and the desire 39 " 4 townsite Surveyed at ° gain p eG, security, and Teligious Willo F Teedom for their loved nes, The two me | Clear aroun akeside, Near the Of the lake, and e Stansbury Island, g sl outh Wiy- 10rt distance Out into the lak explored it to " furnish winter for Stazing livestock. Ms is Skul] Valle one day, hile Harri N the east. Son Severe SCarching for cattle em and Northern Part of the town, Stolen by the In 'ans, he found two Many farms are Dlesseg with natural] skulls, and so Named the valley, flowing wells, so that their 9 Ners The Cedar Mountain Separate ° not have to "Pend upon the Skul alley from the Great Salt Mountain treams ¢ rely. In 10- Lake Desert—4 desert Which can neer days. The first f] Wing well] Was never blossom, It is, In q Way, a dug by John w. Cooley, and of th, lurin the unwa When jt Was first settled, the traveler to his doom by its strange Page 248 GRANTSVILLE AND THE DESERT mirages. 'The water which mses to its surface is salty and unfit to drink. Even today, with the railroad crossing the northern end, and w: th a national highway chartered on a road map to guide the tourist, one would tremble to have his car break down on' some lonely stretch of the road. That early explorers crossed this land with no knowledge of its hazards is, in itself, a miracle. It is the opinion of the historian Charles Kelley that men like Jedediah Smith, Captain Bartleson, Christopher Carson, John Charles Fremont, and other intrepid explorers of this most treacherous desert of North Ametica, should have their names and their deeds recorded beside those of the other great explorers of our naaad tion; but so far, too little has been known of them. This great salt plain was at one time covered by the waters of the Great Salt Lake. 'The Salt Desert has a length of one hundred miles, and is about seventy-five miles wide. Evaporation has removed the surface water, leaving only a great level expanse of mud and salt. No vegetation grows upon this waste, no fresh water enters it, and as far as the eye can see, there is a limitless expanse of dazzling white salt plain. In dry places, and during the summer, this plain is in parts hard and smooth, offering little surface resistance, so that cars seem to skim over its surface. One of these places, the Bonbes e Se tz, e ee bs e LOG CABIN WHICH BECAME A PART OF THE FIRST HOUSE BUILT IN GRANTSVILLE This cabin was built by John W. Clark (not a member of the family related to President Clark). It has been donated by Mr. Clark Jefferies, its last owner, to the Grantsville chapter of the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers and is to be used to house relics. MONUMENT ON THE SITE OF THE OLD FORT This monument was erected by the Grantsville Chapter of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers, July 24, 1934. It stands in front of the old meetinghouse which is now the First Ward chapel. Neville Salt Flats, is now used for testing racing cars. But in damp stretches, and during wet weather, wheels bog down in a mud which is like glue; lt must be scraped from the wheels, and will cling to whatever is used for scraping. Early emigrants crossing the desert on the way to California, had to abandon their loads piece by precious piece, sometimes even the wagons themselves, in order to cross this desert. Because of the peculiar properties, there is no erosion, and the prints of the wagon wheels, and even footprints, are preserved in the salt plain. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 The first white man to cross this desert was Jedediah Smith, one of those who explored the Great Basin under General Ashley, in the years 1824-1827. Although credit is usually given to Jim Bridger for the discovery of Great Salt Lake, "tle honors should be shared with Smith and Provost, who discovered it the same year, 1826, each independently of the others. DURING the first year, the little band of settlers fled to Pine Canyon because of danget from the Indians. They had tried to follow the admonition of Brigham Young: "Don't fight the Indians; feed them," but to no avail. During the months which followed, the pioneers hauled logs from the canyon and sold them to make a few dollars. Prices were very high that year, ten dollars a hundred for flour, and other prices in proportion. But in spite of the hard times, they saved $380 which they invested in oxen. In 1852, they returned to Willow Creek and took up farming. At that time, a branch of the Church was organized, with Benjamin Baker as presiding elder. 'The following families comprised the population of the little village: James McBride, Harrison Severe, Thomas P. Watson, William Davenport, Samuel Steele, Wilford Hudson, William Daley, and William Pope. Indian troubles did not end with the first year. In 1853, it was mecessary to build a fort for protection of the settlers, in case actual war should break out. No part of this structure remains standing. The north, west, and south sides of the old fort were of mud, five feet thick 251 " twelve feet high, and Way to and from Tooele, and, at "lgnteen inches thick at the top. The same time, earn "nough to sy C east wall was of adobe, but it port his family and "arty on his bus. Was never finished, C total ines, length of the wal] WaS 120 rods built at a President Grant labored as presi- 7 average cost of $25 dent of Tooele Stake fr 4 rod, thus Making the tota] c | about $3,000, dustries. Were organized When j It was time to take the Cattle out t | that it js the n | Ome town of President J. Reuben ings, the bishop of Clark, Jr. He Was born in Grantsthe war directed he ACtivities ville, in a TOck house built by his, father from rocks hauled from the Die common one Canyons, and Which stooq Near the " cstate of Samuel WwW olley, on, " aris oe at eocome resident Clark's father, Joshua Cuben Clark, came to the West as 'though. —— ae J one of Many who were looking for A TaNOL i Haliatie ot Uns va mines and Minerals CY, he spent } O years in Tooele take, | scattered Across the Was in the h 88y days, and it was n Make Tistic mg Temodeled and is the Property of the Pay his Own Tantsville First Ward. 252 might have arrived at his destination a little sooner, but Brother Clark would not travel on Sundays, waiting over each Sabbath until the following day to resume his journey. It was in Farmington that Brother Clark, not then a member of the Church, attended his first Latterday Saint service and was deeply impressed by the principles of the gospel and the sincerity of the people. A short time before his baptism into the Church, he attended April Conference in the Tabernacle. The following account of his impression of Brigham Young is taken from his diary: Brigham Young is about five feet eight inches tall, and weighs about one hundred eighty or ninety pounds. He has a good supply of auburn hair. His beard is getting a little gray, and when walking, his eyes are generally cast toward the ground. Ile has what might be termed a smiling countenance, Mr. Clark was baptized in 1867, and the next year he came to Grantsville as a school teacher, starting school with twenty-nine pupils. 'The school was held in a one-room adobe house, a part of which is still standing. In those days,'the teacher had to accept produce in part payment for the pupils' tuition. He boarded with several families, eventually with the Samuel Woolley family, through whom he became acquainted with Brother Woolley's sister, Mary Louisa Woolley, and fell in love with her. 'They were married July 11, 1870, in the old Endowment House in Salt Lake City. Ten children were born to them, seven boys and three girls. \ IIE following notes are taken \ from an account of the early \ \ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 life of President J. Reuben Clark Jr., son of Joshua Reuben Clark and Mary Louisa Woolley: In his boyhood, he 'attended faithfully his meetings, such as Sunday School and Priesthood meetings. He was advanced in the Priesthood as rapidly as age would permit. He was treasurer of the Primary Association of his ward, and president of his Deacons' quorum. He was a home missionary for the stake. President Clark, as a youth, was prominent in the field of recreation, and took part in home dramatics and musical activities. He was a member of the Grantsville Juvenile Band. He knew pioneer life as it was in the early days, and helped his father with the work on the farm. When he was twelve years old, he proudly displayed a cabbage he had raised, at the Pnmary fair. At the age of fourteen, he started helping his father with sheep shearing. He was always obedient to his father, and has said that he never considered himself too old to ask his father's advice. Bryant S. Hinckley wrote this of President Clark: President Clark grew to manhood in the country, and knows something of pioneering. His very earliest recollection is seeing his mother kill a rattlesnake at the back door of her kitchen. In the midst of her other activities, his mother taught him to read and write, so that when he entered the grade schools, he was placed in the third grade. He finished the grades in Grantsville, but as there was no high school in the town at that time, he went through the eighth grade three times. J. Reuben herded cattle for his uncle, Samuel Woolley. He drove them to summer range every spring, and back to winter range every fall. He knows what it is to stay in the saddle all day and all night, to go without rest or sleep for twenty-four hours at a time. The language and the hardships of the cowboy are familiar to him. The only available fuel at that time was wood, which was hauled from the near-by hills and canyons. He narrowly escaped death when bringing a load of GRANTSVILLE AND THE DESERT wood over a deep and dangerous dugway with a lead harness on his horses which made it almost impossible for him to hold the horses. Dr. John A. Widtsoe wrote: The savings of a life unusually crowded with professional and official duties have been used in acquiring and developing a farm. 'The material results of his life's labor are in the land. This is an example for the Church to heed. The home farm of sixty acres of fertile soil and ample water supply produces garden stuff, sugar beets, hay, and other crops. On this farm too are dwelling house, and barns, etc. Horses, cows, pigs are kept. President Clark supervises its every operation, and such time as can be spared from his administrative duties he gives to working the soil, and other essential labor to make the earth yield. President Clark has recently had completed a beautiful new brick home on his farm in Grantsville. He 253 spends many week-ends there. During the summer, his son, J. Reuben Clark IIT and his wife, Emily Anderson Clark, live on the farm and help with the work. Perhaps the settlement of a little town like Grantsville does not seem so great a thing. Yet its settlement, along with that of hundreds of other little towns just like it, their growth and development, their industry and progress, have made up the Western Empire. In these little towns throbs the heart of the West. Perhaps if their founders could come back now, they would be amazed to see the results of their hardships and sacrifice. And no doubt many of them would say, "Oh, I didn't do so much." But to them we might say in turn, "Just look what you started!"' HOME OF PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK JR. ON HIS FARM IN GRANTSVILLE er, Or in common Par > ME violets o Spring! Ho does not €S not @PPleciate their lovely SWeet Y senses from far off €ars; or e€Miniscen iT' § OCIETY. The first Was held jn the Sale Lake Assembly Fal] "pr csentatives Of the Various Prest. Zina J). IT, Oung: OunNsclors Imbal] y at [N Washingt forni Academy Of Sciences, { was her ninetieth bi She is st; g hase Smith, (R), Maine, IS the o Ou Own Rclicf Socicty My, gazi ASSOCiate editor, Congratulations to President Smith on His SeventyNinth Birthday Again, on his birthday, we extend to President George Albert Smith our heartfelt wishes for health and happiness and the strength to ac complish those high aims and purposes which are nearest his heart. May he be remembered by the faith and prayers of Relief Society women in all the stakes and missions of the Church. May his voice be heard in times to come, as in the past, upholding the faith of his fathers and speaking words of encouragement and inspiration as a testimony to a world which now, more than ever, needs the message of the gospel. — ipo Votes 10 THE FIELD Delay in Sending Rolls for Tlames of Contributors to the Relief Soctety Building Fund BECAUSE of the heavy snows and consequent traffic tie-ups involving the mails, as also the covering of mail boxes by snow in rural areas, the general board has delayed sending the sheets to the stakes and missions of the Church on which to write the names of all contributors to the Relief Society Building Fund. If the sheets had become wet or creased they would have been spoiled. Therfore, as soon as it secms safe to send the rolls through the mails, they will be sent. Complete instructions for writing the names of contributors are included with the rolls. Ynstructions Regarding "Tlotes From the Field ' BECAUSE of limited space in the