concerning life and immortality are given. There are those who teach that our faith in Christ is built upon the "blessed mystery of the incatnation." Must our faith forever rest upon a mystery? Jesus did not so teach. His philosophy was plain and easy to understand. He said: "Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for | am meek and lowly in heart; and ye shall find rest unto your souls" (Matt. 11:29). There are some things we may not fully understand, but the way of life— the pathway to Jesus—is not filled with mystery. "Tf any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, oF whether I speak of myself" (John 7:17). The key is given there by the Lord. Doing his will unlocks the mysteries. Following closely the path he marked brings us to the light of God. If we do not know that Jesus 18 the Lord, it does not mean that he cannot be known. It means we have not done his will; we have not followed where he led. Our duty is to find the pathway to the knowledge that Jesus does live. It can be found. "No man can Say the Lord, but by the that Jesus ls Holy Ghost" JESUS—LORD OF THE RESURRECTION (1 Cor. 12:3). The plain implication is that by the Holy Ghost we may receive a testimony and say that we know Jesus is the Lord. In the gospel of our Lord the way is mapped out for us to receive the Holy Ghost. One of the sweetest joys of life is to have that great gift. It brings a knowledge of our Redeemer. We may know that he lives. Because he lives, we will live. Because he was resurrected, we will be raised from the grave. 'Through Jesus Christ came the redemption of man. And because of the redemption of man, which came by Jesus Christ, they are brought back into the presence of the Lord; yea, this is wherein all men are redeemed, because the death of Christ bringeth to pass the resurrection, which bringeth to pass a redemption from an endless sleep, from which sleep all men shall be awakened by the power of God when the trump shall sound; and they shall come forth, both small and great, and all shall stand before his bar, being redeemed and loosed from this eternal band of death, which death is a temporal death (Book of Mormon, Mormon 9:13). HE prophet Alma tells us that when the spirit leaves the body it returns to the God who gave it life, there to be assigned to the place its life's work has merited. The spirits of the righteous "are received into a state of happiness, which is called paradise" where they shall be free from cares and _ sorrows. 'Those who have been unrighteous and wicked are "cast out into outer darkness' (Alma 40:12, 13). This place called paradise is not one of inactivity. To the righteous, it 223 is a State of joy, of growth and progress. Rest does not mean idleness —that is often boredom. Jesus, when he had finished his work on the cross, went to paradise and preached to spirits who were disobedient in the days of Noah (1 Peter 3:19-20). For what did he go? Just to add to their misery by telling them what they had missed? That thought does an injustice to the loving, merciful Redeemer. He took to them a message of hope. A great part of the work of the Savior lay ahead of him when he expired on the cross. It was not until he was resurrected from the tomb, not until the spirit and body had been reunited that he became a living soul and was prepared to return to his Father, that the fulness of his work had been accomplished. Then it was that it pleased the "Father that in him should all fulness dwell." He was then in a position to extend the saving graces of the resurrection to all of our Father's children. As Jesus became a living soul after the resurrection, so by his redeeming power will our spirits and bodies be re-united and become living souls, to become inseperable, immortal, and eternal beings forever. Why should we reject a great and glorious event because, forsooth, we do not understand just how it was accomplished or brought about? The resurrection of Jesus was real. He was not a deceiver nor did he take up his body to later discard it. How can we doubt the actual corporeity of the resurrected Lord, if we accept the scriptures as evidence? Moreover, we are definitely promised that if we do obey the gospel of 224 Christ, we may know by the gift and power of the Holy Ghost that Jesus was resurrected and that we will be resurrected. That principle is a part of the gospel. The whole of Christianity revolves around that truth. "For if the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised: and if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins" (1 Cor. 15:16-17). That body he took up was real. With it he ate broiled fish and honeycomb (Luke 24:42-43). When he left his disciples an angel told them: "This same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven" (Acts 1:11). Why surround the event with mystery? Often the grandest things are simple when we understand them. The Creator of heaven and earth had power to lay down his life and take his body up from the tomb. Then, surely, he has power to call all men from their graves. "For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive" (1 Cor, 15:22). During one of his last talks with his disciples before his ascension into heaven, Jesus said: "All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth" (Matt. 28:18). His authority and power are supreme. He is Lord omnipotent, "who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God" (Phil, 276). That he did cause others to be resurrected is shown by the following scripture: "And the graves were opened; and many bodies of the saints which slept arose, and came RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 out of the graves after his resurrection, and went into the holy city, and appeared unto many" (Matt. 27:52-53). This occurred after the resurrection of the Lord. He was the "first fruits" of the resurrection. There is no question about those who slept in the graves being raised from the dead. If many were resurrected, all can and will be. "And shall come forth; they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation" (John 5:29). In another place John further states: And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened; and another book was opened, which is the book of life: and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it; and death and hell delivered up the dead which were 'in them: and they were judged every man according to their works (Rev. 20:12-13). The question asked by Job: "If a man die, shall he live again?" was answered. For thousands of years men have asked that question. The answer came, after the cross, on the first Easter morning when Christ, "the first born of every creature," came out of the tomb. If man die, he shall live again. To Latter-day Saints, the resurrection is a glorious event to which they look forward. Easter is fraught with deep meaning. Faithful ones who appreciate the "author and finisher of their faith" in their hearts join in the glad cry: "Hosanna! Blessed be the name of the Most High God!" The Boy There Christie Lund Coles ENNY lifted the small dog higher on his shoulder, slowed his step, and leaned against the barn to catch his breath. He stroked the small black and white animal saying, "Nice little feller. What's your name?" The dog whined, and, suddenly, the boy winced as he noticed a bleeding gash on one hind leg. "Gee," he murmured, gently, "we'll fix it. You'll be okay. If Pa will let me keep you, I'll name you Tip. I'll take good care of you." He leaned forward to look around the corner of the barn. His father was in from the fields for lunch. Right now he was bending his dark head under the water pump, washing for lunch. It would be a good time to ask him. He started forward, then he paused fascinated and afraid at the sight of his father's large hand lifting and lowering the pump handle. Denny felt sick with shame, remembering that it took all his strength and both hands to work it and then the water never poured out like it was doing now. | His Pa was a handsome man as he shook the water from his hair and dried his hands. He was six fect, three inches tall and was stronger than any man in towns around here. Once, he had seen him lift a wagon box with one hand. Maybe that was why he was so frightening to him... Because he was so big and so sure of himself, because he talked too loud. When he was angry his voice was like who could help thunder or the roar of a big flood, the kind Pa told him they used to have in the valley beneath here. Still... He loved his father with a stronger, different kind of love than that for his mother. It was a sort of reaching up, of aching for the man's regard, though he supposed he'd never really win that, for once he had heard him say to his wife, "To think that I sired that little runt.". There had been laughter in his voice, but Denny hurt inside whenever he thought of it. He was a runt, and you couldn't blame Pa for wanting a big son, one in the fields, and with the horses, instead of him who stood shaking here, scared to go and ask if he might keep the poor, hurt critter in his arms.. It wasn't that Pa ever hurt him, or that he would now. It was likely he'd just say, "That ain't a dog, that's a contamination," or something like that. His father liked big dogs, like Shep who had been gored by a bull while trying to pasture it. Denny had loved Shep, too, but there was something about a little dog like this one that made him feel strong and good. He could pick him up, talk to him, though he had to be careful of the sore leg that was still bleeding. | Even if Pa wouldn't let him have the dog he would help fix the leg. He couldn't see any animal suffer. He had tears in his eyes the day he buried Shep, when he put his hand on Denny's shoulder and said, Page 225 226 "Don't feel bad, boy. He died doin' his job. There ain't no better way than that." DENNY watched his Pa take a long drink of water from the tin dipper hanging beside the well, saw him put the dipper in place, plant his hands on his hips, and gaze far out over the west field that was plowed and ready to be planted with the early wheat. He looked happy, maybe now was as good a time as any to ask him about the dog. He couldn't wait much longer for the little fellow was beginning to struggle against the pressure of his arm. Breathing deeply, he stepped forward, started up the path between the chicken coop and the rabbit hutch, past the woodpile, over the chips that covered the walk, up to the enormous oak tree whose lacy shade reached from here to the well and even up to the kitchen porch. His father couldn't see him, so he paused once more to catch his breath. Suddenly, Pa made a motion as though starting for the house and Denny hurried forward, almost stumbling to the ground as he did so. Pa heard him and turned. His dark eyes looked first at the boy, then at the dog in his arms. He asked briefly, '""Where'd you find that?" "T found him over by the highway. Somebody must've put him from a car. Else he's come a long ways, he's all dirty and his leg's hurt." "You don't figure to keep him?" "T kinda hoped to " RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 "Yer Ma wouldn't stand it. He'd chase the chickens and bother the horses. That's all little dogs like him is good for." "But Pa " "Now, none of your 'buts'. Bring him over to the porch and let's have a look at him." Denny carried the dog carefully to the porch. Then his father reached over and took the animal from him and laid it on the porch while he bent on one knee to examine its hurt leg. The boy couldn't look at it. Each time the dog whimpered with quick pain, he felt a sickness in the middle of his stomach. He kept his eye on the tomato plants his mother had set out in coffee cans until time for planting. Then Pa said, "Here, boy, go fetch some water, good and hot. And a clean rag." He was glad to get away, to go into the house, to go up and kiss his mother who was standing by the hot stove pouring flour thickening into bouing carrots. He wanted, for just a moment, to feel the good sureness of her body against his. "Hello there,' she greeted him, touching his hair with her roughened fingers, "you been gone a long time." Then, wiping a streak of soot from his face, she said, "Dinners most on. Your Pa ready?" "He's fixin' a dog's leg. I found it on the highway. He said you wouldn't let me keep it. Won't you Ma? Won't you please?" She put the blue bowl of thickening on the warming oven while she stuck another piece of kindling into the stove. Then, hesitantly, she told him, "If your Pa will let you, THE BOY THERE I won't interfere. Sometimes, he puts words into a body's mouth." "Gee, Ma, you're swell. He wants some hot water and a clean rag." "Pour some from the teakettle. Pll get a cloth. Mind the dog don't chase the chickens none." "You won't need to worry. Watch it, Ma. Honest, I will." Holding the screen door open with his foot, he carried the basin of water with both hands. He saw the dog lying on its side. Pa was holding the bad leg by the foot. The dog seemed to know he was a friend for, though he would lift his head as though he wanted to bite Pa, he would lick the large, brown hand, instead. Denny glanced at the wound and saw an ugly gash that showed white sinew and quivering, bleeding flesh. He put the washbowl down swiftly. His father said, "Well, tear off a piece of cloth so's I can bathe this. And hurry. I ain't got all day." Shaking, Denny managed to get a piece of rag torn off and handed it in the general direction of his Pa. It missed his hand and the man looked up, "Watch that." His eyes came up to meet the terrified eyes of the boy. He let go of the dog and said, "For gosh sake, what ails you? A dog would die if it depended on you for doctorin'. Git in the house. Go on now, git!" Obeying, Denny started through the door, feeling not only sick, but sorry and ashamed now, too. He wanted to stay and show his father that he could be of some help, but there was no turning back now. Before he could put foot on the worn kitchen floor Pa was up and beside him, putting his hand Pl 227 on top of his head, as he told his wife, ""Take care of this young 'un. Give him a spot of the soup you was fixing." Water rose in Denny's throat, into his mouth. He wanted to bend and kiss his father's hand as he had seen the dog lick it a moment before. While the thought was still warm and sweet in him, Pa touched his head again, ruffling his hair, saying, playfully perhaps, "He's a sissy, Ma," and something seemed stricken inside the boy. When his mother tried to spoon warm soup into his mouth he pushed it away. UT the dog stayed, and spring passed with its shimmering beauty, its newness, its smell of turned earth and lilacs and blossoms in the long orchard north of the house. He loved spring, but he loved summer too, especially the purple evenings when he brought the cows home from the pasture across the creek bed where he wet his bare feet in the shiny water, and, later, felt the warm dirt cling and trickle between his toes. Ma had warned him not to get his feet wet, but he hadn't had the cough so much this summer and he was able to help. He kept telling himself that he'd show his Pa. He'd show him. Still, he was surprised when a few days later his father said to his mother, "Well, Ma, the boy there is looking right spry. Tim Jones needs someone to help thin beets. He needs him now. Think you can spare Denny?" Ma looked up sharply from peeling potatoes, hesitated, then said, 228 "Why, yes, I 'spect... If you think best." "Sure, it'll do him good. Get a few of his things ready and I'll drive him over on my way to sce Spence." Denny hadn't ever slept away from home; he couldn't imagine not sleeping in the same house, not waking to see the shadow of the apple tree on his window... Yet, maybe, this was his chance. Still, it was hard to kcep a wobbling out of his knees when he saw Ma packing his shirts and socks. He thought there were tears in her eyes—like raindrops in harebell cups—but, when she looked up she was smiling, proud like. And he felt taller when Pa said, "Mind yerself. Do yore job, but don't let him drive you too hard." He felt like bursting, yet he didn't speak for fear it would spoil this moment, saying goodbye, climbing into the old car beside his Pa— like another man Yet, after three days at the Jones'. Place, he knew that he was more than a little homesick. No full week had ever seemed so long. The sun had been sweltering in the beet fields; the nights had been sticky hot in the small attic room where he slept with the smell of dust and heat. He kept wondering what they were doing at home. He pictured them, morning, noon, and night. He longed for the feel of Tip's moist nose nuzzled against his hand, his small, furry body pressed against his leg. He missed Ma's smile, the questions she asked, he missed Pa's booming voice, his sureness. No one here had talked to him much. Mrs. Jones was always hot and cross. But then she had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 five kids littler than he was, so he couldn't blame her. Mr. Jones tried to be jolly, but there was something forced about it and he was stingy and mean in little ways, not at all like Pa. On Tuesday, Mr. Jones said at the dinner table, "We'd best hurry up. Looks like a storm's coming," and Denny, with food still in his mouth, got up and followed the man outside, took his hoe, and went to the ficlds. By Friday the clouds overhead really began to move together in great clusters of darkness. It looked like storm, sure enough. The water in the ditch below the field was red from the clay dirt above, the sun that had been bright carlier was dulled' to gray—a strange, dark grayness that hung over the world like the faded shawl Ma wore gathering eggs in the wintertime. And now the clouds were moving as though giant hands were pushing them swiftly, making the sky almost black. The air was moist and cool even while it took your breath away with its heaviness. DENNY'S hand felt wet on the shovel handle; there was a strange tremor in it. He had heard tell of the floods that had come down into the valley from the hills, terrible floods that tore down houses and sent boulders crashing into everything. He had never seen one and never really feared it since their place was on a hill nearly two miles from here. The water looked red for sure now and there was a flood-smell in - the air. He had smelled it oncewhen the creek back of the west (Continued on page 283) Relief Society Building Pheins HE names of the following branches in missions have not previously been published in The Relief Society Magazine as having completed their Building Fund quotas: Amecameca Branch, Mexican Mission Atlixco Branch, Mexican Mission Auckland Branch, New Zealand Mission Awapuni Branch, New Zealand Mission Awarua Branch, New Zealand Mission Canal Zone Branch, Mexican Mission Guerrero Branch, Mexican Mission Hamilton Branch, New Zealand Mission Heretaunga Branch, New Zealand Mission Hiona Branch, New Zealand Mission Huria Branch, New Zealand Mission Kaikohe Branch, New Zealand Mission Kaikou Branch, New Zealand Mission Kaiuku Branch, New Zealand Mission Kiri Kirk Branch, New Zealand Mission Korongata Branch, New Zealand Mission LaCaseta Branch, Mexican Mission Mahoenui Branch, New Zealand Mission Maromaku Branch, New Zealand Mission Matokowhai Branch, New Zealand Mission Mataraua Branch, _New Zealand Mission Mokau Branch, New Zealand Mission Monterey Branch, Mexican Mission Ngawha Branch, New Zealand Mission Nuhaka Branch, New Zealand Mission Opoutama Branch, New Zealand Mission Ounaruku Branch, New Zealand Mission Rangioto Branch, New Zealand Mission Rotorua Branch, New Zealand Mission San Buenaventura Branch, Mexican Mission San Gabriel Branch, Mexican Mission San Marcos Branch, Mexican Mission San Pablo Branch, Mexican Mission San Pedro Branch, Mexican Mission Tahaenui Branch, New Zealand Mission Tamaki Branch, New Zealand Mission Taumarunui Branch, New Zealand Mission Tautoro Branch, New Zealand Mission Te Awamutu Branch, New Zealand Mission Te Hapara Branch, New Zealand Mission Te Hauke Branch, New Zealand Mission Te Horo Branch, New Zealand Mission Te Hue Hue Branch, New 'Zealand | Mission Thames Branch, New Zealand Mista 'Uawa Branch, New Zealand Mission Utakura Branch, New Zealand Mission Waihou Branch, New Zealand Mission Waikare Branch, New Zealand Mission Waimamaku Branch, New Zealand. Mission Wairoa Branch, New Zealand Mission. Whangarei Branch, New Zealand Mission _ Whangaroa Branch, New Zealand Mission -Whangaruru Branch, New Zealand Mission - Page 229