Our Political Inheritance Elder G. Homer Durham Director, Institute of Government, University of Utah HE twentieth century faces the future with a question: can free societies endure? Our cultural inheritance from the past includes the ideals of a free society. That same inheritance, however, includes absolutism, dictatorship, regimentation, slavery, and control. Freedom and control are twin aspects of any society. As modern men and women face the issue of free society in the twentieth century, it is well to be informed as to the precious nature of the inheritance we have received from the past in order to preserve freedom. Greek Ideals Regarding Government and Citizenship About six hundred years before Christ, events took a remarkable turn in the Hellenic world. Political society began to move slowly towards a situation where men could live in freedom and choose their own way of life. During the fifth century B. C., democracy flourished at Athens. From this period we derive the bulk of our ideals regarding government and citizenship today. What is this inheritance from the past? 'The principal name associated with the establishment of Athenian democracy (510-492 B. C.) is that of Cleisthenes. Under Cleisthenes the constitution of Athens was reformed in such a way as to provide for the development of democracy. Athenian democPage 230. Racy reached its peak during the age of Pericles (463-431 B. C.). This Athenian experience has been immortalized in the writings of Thucydides, in the plays and dramas of Aristophanes, and in the great philosophical wnitings of Plato and Aristotle. Chief among the ideals set forth in Greek experience is that of individual political participation. It is true that Greek democracy rested on a foundation of slavery. The Greeks recognized the existence of slavery as natural. Later societies, rejecting this notion, have undertaken to extend the ideals of Greek citizenship to all their peoples. This is the effort being made in many western countries today, including the United States of America. In ancient Athens every citizen (but not the slave) was a member of the Ecclesia (the Assembly). Public service was looked upon as the highest form of individual expression. The juries of ancient Athens denote the same principle. In modern life too many citizens try to avoid jury service. In Athens, the juries were large, numbering into the hundreds. Service on juries and participation in the discussion of the assembly were eagerly awaited. Not only was the ideal of individual political participation inculcated into the Greek mind but also the ideal of individual responsibility for the welfare of society. Nowadays many people are willing OUR POLITICAL INHERITANCE to enjoy rights and privileges. Very few realistically realize that for every right and privilege there may be a great duty and responsibility. HE ideal of individual responsibility for the welfare of society is nowhere set forth more clearly and more effectively than in Plato's dialogue, The Protagoras. In this great dialogue, Plato has one of his characters explain why it is that men are able to live together in society and not destroy themselves. The dialogue dramatically sets forth the concept that man is a child of God, that man shares in the divine attributes. 'That when "the desire of self preservation gathered them into cities... They evil entreated one another and were again in process of dispersion and destruction. Zeus feared that the race would be exterminated, and so he _ sent Hermes to them, bearing reverence and justice to be the ordering principles of cities and the bonds of friendship and conciliation." Accordingly, to the Greek mind, characteristic in man's nature are the qualities of reverence and justice. The good citizen should live so that these principles are expressed in his life. In interesting style Plato provides a democratic basis for society in describing how these virtues were distributed by the great Greek gods. As we read further in Protagoras: Hermes asked Zeus how he should impart justice and reverence among men: should he distribute them as the arts are distributed? That is to say, to a favored few only? For one skilled individual has enough of medicine or of any other art. Shall this be the manner in which I distribute justice and reverence among men? 231 Or shall I give them to all? "To all," said Zeus, "I should like them all to have a share. For cities cannot exist if a few only share in the virtues as in the arts. And further make a law by my order, that he who has no part in reverence and justice shall be put to death as a plague of the state." In another of Plato's dialogues, The Phaedo, Plato discusses the great doctrine of the pre-existence and the immortality of the soul. The Phaedo is actually the description of the death of the great Greek teacher Socrates. 'Towards the conclusion of the dialogue, Plato places this great speech in the mouth of Socrates as he is about to end his earthly journey: "But then, oh my friends," he said, "if the soul is really immortal what care should be taken of her not only in respect of the portion of time which is called life, but of eternity!" This quotation indicates the great value with which the Greeks in their greatest moments, held the dignity and value of human life. The quest for justice, the stimulus towards training the mind, to be educated, to develop the ability to foresee and to anticipate the problems of the future, the ideals of checks and balances, of limited constitutionalism and government— all these are numbered with our inheritance from the Greeks. Roman Ideals Regarding Government and Law The Roman republic flourished from about 50g B. C. Down to the time of Julius Caesar, about 46 B. C. The Roman Republic was inhabited by a hearty yeomanry. The story of the Roman mother, Cor- 232 nelia, is typical. Cornelia was the mother of the two significant Roman reformers Tiberius and Gaius Gracchus. Both of the Gracchi eventually lost their lives as the result of their efforts to help their people. The story is told that one of Cornelia's neighbors called upon her, exhibiting her marvelous collection of jewelry. The noble Roman mother called in her two sons and said, simply, "These are my jewels." The Roman Republic' evidences the ideals of self-government and popular participation as found also in ancient Greece. 'The Roman Republic developed the office of the tribune. The persons of the tribunes were inviolable. Acting on behalf of the welfare of the people, they were given power to veto the action of any public officer found harmful to the people. In turn, the tribunes were subject to popular control of the elected assembly. However, it is in the field of law and administration that we derive our greatest inheritance from Roman experience. In Rome developed the great Jus Gentium. Translated, this phrase means simply "law of peoples," or as it is sometimes called, "law of nations." The Romans had the great capacity in the evolution of their political life to adopt a legal system which provided a basis in_ principle for equality of treatment to all the people of the Mediterranean world—a_ marvelous accomplishment. As such the Roman law spread throughout the entire European world. Today it provides the basis for the jurisprudence of Continental Europe. It has also influRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 enced the making and enforcement of law throughout the entire world. Under this great empire with its great Roman law, public administration also flourished. From about 46 B. C. To the second century A. D., a period of virtually unbroken peace existed. This period of time is called the Pax Romana (Roman Peace). Jesus of Nazareth was born into this world that knew the Pax Romana. The contribution that Roman law and _ administration made toward a safe, secure world in which St. Paul, the great Christian missionary, could deliver his message has had lasting significance for all mankind. The Ideals of English Liberty England has been called the "mother of parliaments." England is the traditional home of government by consent of the governed, majority rule, civil liberty, and representative institutions. It is also the home of the rule of law as developed through an independent judicial system. The net result of our English inheritance is embodied in the phrase "fair play." On the tomb of one of the barons who forced King John at Runnymede (June 1215) to sign the Magna Charta appears the following inscription: "Magna Charta Is_ the Law and Let the King Look Out!" Even before Magna Charta, the line of English evolution may be said to have turned towards the development of free institutions and the idcal of liberty under law. When William the Norman conquered England in 1066, he adopted an ancient Saxon practice, expanding the same into the device called, OUR POLITICAL INHERITANCE 233 "The Great Council of the Norman lish éovernment, The foundations King" (magnum Concilium). From OL modern Constitutionalism Stem this Great Council of the Norman argely from nitish experience of kings began to evolve, in the twelfth the Seventeenth centy Century, the great system of Eno. € American Tevolution was o¢ lish law courts Ith the 6 Must recejye « | Of 1688-8. Law. Parliament What of ciyj] 1; Sovernment also of this cultural jn. Heritance will be discussed In an article to follow Gaster Belle W. Anderson; Faster is an angel of light, i 0 still; Rolling dark Stones awa no ue SHlence of the Place Tom the sepulchre of night's despair ung Tain upon my face, Into eterna] day seeming slumbering Long Lassi your care," he said She may have lived her three-score years nn touched his flesh, then laid An en, yes, even m Te IS hand on Cart-torn Mary, € may have fallen ent in anguish as she prayed Ah, many years before. Tenderly he lifted.. _ Perhaps she found Contentment The trembling body Swayed, Children Playing round her door— IS arm across her shoulder, With older Carts to love her They walked on side by side. And little feet to guide— ere is no more of Mary told Until Jesus met h Since the day that Jesus died, €r at the gate The day that Mary died. Thunderstorm Mary Ek Knowles shopping bag that hung on the hook by the stove. She heard the kitchen door creak as it swung open and she knew, without turning around, that Bob was standing in the doorwayHer hand closed twine handle. Ms reached for the papet tight over the She shut her eyes and thought, if he says, "Going somewhere, baby?" Tl] scream, because he knows I at this time every morning. "Going somewhere, baby?" say, "Skip it, B Three months ago she wouldn't have hesitated. But then Bob had been well. He had been section boss at Amalgamated Lumbet and Construction Company. He'd been catch on the plant baseball team.-- - Now everything was different. When the lumber mill burned Bob had rescued five of his workers from Bob was a hero. He had a medal and a pension for life, but he had badly burned lungs, too. And he would be a semi-invalid for the rest of his life. Myra thought of the Hendersons the cornet Mr. Henderson had been a semr invalid from a back injury. The old couple quarreled a great deal and since the fire they had become to Myra the horrible example of what she and Bob could become, if she wasn't careful. 'Two people Page 234 chained together through duty and obligation, not love. We'll never bicker and quarrel like the Hendersons, she vowed, and she turned around, her lips tilted in a smile, her eyes Very blue. She gave the same answer she had given every morning since Bob came home from the hospital two months ago, "Yes, | thought I'd run down to the market." "Bring me a magazine, will you?" Bob stood with hands on his hips. Sometimes it was difficult to T€ member how ill he was. He looked just the same, his face tuggedly handsome, his auburn hair curling in tight waves. He was wearing 4 white tee shirt with AC on the front. Once Bob had played baseball. Now he had to lie down and rest after the least exertion. She She said, "Yes, darling. I'll bring you the latest magazines." She lifted her mouth for his kiss. His lips scarcely touched hers. Her mind snagged on the fact, and then she looked into the living room and onto the glassed-in front porch that had become "Bob's comer." It was a shambles again, Bob's pajamas on the big chair, 4 jigsaw puzzle dumped on the card table, maga zines and papers tumbled onto the floor. Twice already this morning she had straightened Bob's cornet! Couldn't he at least pick his things up! She saw Bob looking at her in that new, watchful way he had. THUNDERSTORM "Something wrong?" he asked, and his voice was curiously tight. "Wrong?" she said brightly. "No, of course not." "Well, hurry back." It was almost the final touch, like the final drop of a dripping tap that sends one hurtling into madness. Must he say that every time she left the house? She smiled, "Be right back." HE walked out the back door, down the steps, and around the side of the house. And her steps took her around the block rather than pass the Hendersons. I won't hurry back! She started to cry, tears she brushed angrily away as quickly as they formed. She thought, oh, what's wrong with me. I do love you, Bob. She remembered the scene in the hospital and the doctor telling her, "If by some miracle your husband lives he will be a semi-invalid." And she could hear her words, "I don't care. If only he'll live!" "You're very young, Mrs. Fortest," the doctor had said kindly. "Tt's not easy." "T love Bob, Doctor, and I want to be with him no matter what happens. I'll never complain!" And now she could hardly wait to get away. She had been braced for the big emergencies that would arise. But there hadn't been any. After the testimonial dinner for Bob, after the publicity had died down, their life had settled into a dull, quiet pattern. She thought, I'll be all nght. It's just the heat and I didn't sleep last night. Bob was prowling around, opening and closing the icebox, 235 tuming on taps, leaving them dripping. She took the grocery list from her purse and studied it. From force of habit she walked fast. Have to hurry back... Take care of Bob The large super-market was crowded, but cool. She was walking towards the meat counter when a voice called, "Myra Forrest!" It was Peggy Linford and it was quite apparent that she was going to have a baby. "Peggy!" She and Peggy had worked in "Ruth's Book Nook" back in Habberton. Myra's hand went out to the other girl and she thought, oh, I wish I were going to have a baby, but it's impossible with the way things are. "What are you doing in Scoville, Peggy?" "Phil's company just transferred him here." "We must get together." "Let's plan to go dancing as soon as Junior is born," Peggy said. Myra's throat tightened. "Bob was injured in the lumber mill fire. He'll never dance again." "Oh, I'm terribly sorry." Peggy looked almost as if she were going to cry. "Oh, we're not so badly off," Myra said quickly. "Bob gets a pension for life. He isn't in bed or anything like that. But he can't work. He just stays home and rests a great deal." "And you take care of him?" "Oh, yes. Certainly." "You poor darling." The sympathy in Peggy's voice was very real, and all at once Myra had a picture of herself patiently caring for Bob. She had never thought of it quite that way before. 236 It was strangely comforting. She pushed her hair back and said quietly, "Oh, I love doing it. After all, I am his wife, you know. No sacrifice is too great." "Oh, yes, I know, Myra. I adore Phil, too, but. "Remember the fun we used to have at the 'Book Nook'?" She didn't want Peggy to say anything that would disturb the picture in her mind, the. Picture of her sacrificing herself for Bob. Now, and down through the years to come. "Oh, PI never forget. Did you know that Ruth is opening a shop here in Scoville?" Peggy asked. "She wants me to come and work for her after the baby is born, but of course I can't. But I know she would give the job to you." The job would be hers for the asking. And it would help out. Bob's pension was very modest. Her spirits soared and then flattened. "Oh, no, I couldn't. Bob." "Even for half a day?" "IT wouldn't think of leaving Bob." She was not aware that she stood very tall, that her smile was heroically brave. Peggy patted her arm. An angel, Myra. Angel." Again there was that strange, new, intoxicating feeling. "Oh, no, I'm not an angel, Peggy. I'm just doing my duty, as any wife would." HEY parted soon after. Myra crossed ground beef off her list and bought steak. It would pinch her budget, but she would go without something herself so Bob could have the best. The Hendersons were quarreling again. She heard their voices as "You're A patient, good RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 she turned the corner. "You can just as well sit in the lawn swing, Zach Henderson! Least until I get the porch washed off!" "Don't need to wash the porch off again, and danged if I'm going to move!" Myra was even with the Henderson's now. She could see Mr. Henderson in the rocking chair on the front porch, his feet on the railing, and Mrs. Henderson standing over him, a broom in her hand. "You'll move!" She nodded her head so vigorously that the white bun of hair quivered. "Or I'll squirt the hose on you full force!" She marched down the steps, dropped the broom, picked up the hose and turned it on. "Okay, I'm movin' then!" Mr. Henderson swung his feet down from the railing and stomped angrily down the porch steps and across the lawn, short and bow-legged, his white hair seeming to stand on end with anger. "Plagued woman! Think we was goin' to eat off the ([ porch! I'll never talk to Bob like that, Myra thought. Never. Someday people would say, "Little Mrs. Forrest... SO patient... Never a cross word " 'The feeling she had had when she was talking to Peggy deepened until it was like warm, sweet honey. She opened the back door of her house, called gaily, "I'm home, Bob. Everything all right?" There was no answer. Something had happened. "Bob!" 'Terror jagged her voice. She hurried into the front room and stopped. Bob was sitting in the big chair in his corner reading a book. You could nN Asi the ang Paid. "Dari; | He looked up "Yeah?" won't. Y." She turned dear?" ack to the kitchen; but Bob Was "Oh the fork 'to m id he expect 4, live on "Would you mind atching the his Pension if he didn't CO-Operate! A wee make ae pci She Eot potatoes Cut of the sack, oor a Bob's come all open - Plumped them Into a Pan, and '; turned the Water on with 4 gush. Picks d mee as Sy order. She "What ind of Potatoes?" Bop Was standing over her like é0wn Aire neat pile an 4N Over.. And smal] Inside or I Tavy ] Wouldn't fee S the icebox from yesterday," The Paring knife hac la "do. But if you. Weren't nob] » YOU made yourself ed into g potat So, © Strengtheneg the fraye "Whoa, there, honey Not that fabric of her soy] with good Teso Way. You've §0t a lot of Waste moutions 10n, Peelin from th top; "'Steak's ne, honey!" use long, Tapid strokes " USt Outsid € kitch Her han were suddenly trem- 238 perate. Dinner with Bob and her sitting across from each other not talking. After two months of each other's company twenty-four hours a day—what was there left to talk about! No reliving a ball game, deciding what Smith should have done on second base when George hit a two-bagger. No office gossip. Dinner was an ordeal. 'Twice she started to mention her meeting with Peggy and then stopped. Peggy... That would make Bob remember dancing. She was relieved when Bob put his napkin down and stood up. "You go and rest while I wash the dishes." She didn't mention that she was going to iron afterwards. Maybe he would sleep until she was through. She knew some degree of peace washing the dishes alone. There was no sound from the other room. Quietly she pulled the ironing board down from the wall. It squeaked on its hinges. She heard Bob coming. Not again. Not ironing while Bob kibitzed, "Look, honey, if you'll just be a bit more scientific, that shirt's going to be a whole lot easier to iron " Swiftly, she put the board back again. She was securing the door just as Bob walked into the kitchen. "Aren't you going to 'ron?" He looked disappointed. "No, I'm tired. Thought I'd finish that story I started last night." She walked past him into the living room. It was incredible that in the few minutes Bob had been alone he could have so wrecked his corner. But he had. Again the magazines were spread out open on the floor. She bent and picked one up, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 straightened slowly, as Bob yelled, "Leave my things alone. It took me fifteen minutes to fix them just the way I wanted!" Bob had an expression on his face like Mr. Henderson when he stomped down the porch steps. Myra bent and placed the magazine back on the floor and she had a picture of herself through the years, growing thin and frail, looking after Bob. Poor little Mrs. Forrest a veritable angel. It was a touching picture. She said gently, "I'r: sorry, darling. I didn't realizc. "You're not sorry! " Why don't you say what you really think! It annoys you the way I mess things up!" "Why, what do you mean?" The picture of the frail, patient Myra was no longer touching. There was a tenseness in the air like the ominous quiet before a storm. Bob's fingers ruffled his hair and his words ripped through the air like forked lightning. "I'm fed up with your Florence Nightingale role. You're getting to be a martyr and you're beginning to enjoy it!" "A martyr! You've got a lot of nerve!" The anger within her ignited like gasoline, and all at once the grievances she had held back came flaming out. They stood in the center of the room shouting at each other, and their words were like claps of thunder. "If you're so fed up, why don't you leave me, then?" he growled. "T will. I'm going to get a job at the bookstore!" "T wish you would!" (Continued on page 281)