ther things as thoroughly as she had placed the flowers together. God was merciful when he made _ two hands. She should be glad that Linda had one good hand. And then another thought came to her with vivid revelation. Linda was happy with her one hand. She had skipped and sung as she had built her flower bed. Was there a chance that she, herself, might spoil that happiness in her constant remindings and neyer-ending worry? She raised her hand and reached for the doll. Her fingers rested on its cold plastic head. She lifted it 244 and stood yp, A splash of rain fel] On her throat a he had played with Linda Nd she Pulled the Magazi » Tead s zine, or brought Work home Soft folds of her robe closer around fro the office. ET neck, © Tesentment had stadually Another flash igh {ning showed 8TOWn on her because he didn' cr the path CIry's— "ily, with h {seem 3 if Worry about Linda's hand. A "T Sagging face and | her eterna] sighs - Could jt be that She was on the Way to becomin anOther Mrs Werr SCOvered that all her Worty and heartache had not helped y? Perhaps some. Linda. It w Larry who TOde her time she wo Id go to her eighbor's on his back, and laughed with her 4nd carry a fe straggling Plants ang ho kept h "PPy. A tender fee] Sit and talk f theuma SM and the Ng came her and some of the Price of butt Peace she had known; er old CT Was a her quick flash, a hom Oud peal of th t, and the In Came down Splashing her in the face SHE awoke with a 'Tamped fee]. And on the hands. She slipped the ing in her Neck. She Wisted her doll into hey tobe and Walked into}, ad pai S m er knees ache and he Ithout ¢ ™ing on the light, slie PS Stic ng in tl Carefully, she Sat on th an, slipped Off her Wet straightened th t onto the S"ppers, and utled he feet under floor. Far y sunshine S streamin €T as she used to do When she was throug he win emem ber. 4 little gir], It was dark an quiet ing the s Ml, § and she could think. O What did it matnes while Couples ter? The Was stil] brightness in talked ang need gaily, She won. The world. Cred if the Daltons would ever ask A Slight Noise jn Inda's room "™ again. She ha ct them once aught her atte tion an When they fj { came. Th Y had in. An d vited Larry ang her t » With its ¢ r n Ith peop] Rebecca oked from the little hand 4d tried to get her t £0 with h Mm, Testing on the covers up to Larry's and when sh had Tefused each, (Continued on The Family Hour in Latter-day Saint Homes Lucy Grant Cannon Former General President, Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association Stay, stay at home my heart and rest; Homekeeping hearts are happiest, For those that wander they know not where Are full of trouble and full of care; To stay at home is best. NE of the slogans of the () National Recreation Association is "The family that plays together stays together." Brother Oscar A. Kirkham has added to this another significant phrase: "The family that prays together stays together." Every Latter-day Saint father and mother wants to have a family solidarity. The Latter-day Saints' con- —_; RESO EES Sn neem WILLARD R. AND FLORENCE GRANT SMITH FAMILY PARTY —Longfellow ception of family and its ultimate place in this life and in eternity makes the family unit the most important one in all the world. The physical needs of the family are imperative; food must be provided or the body starves and dies. Hence, the physical care of the child is one of the first requirements of parents. But within every person is a spiritual being like in stature to as: | Emigration Canyon, Summer 1948 The. Father stands at the swing, left, and the mother is seen at the left of the wagon. Page 245 246 the physical, and this: spiritual being needs and requires spiritual food or it starves and dies. The knowl