missionary and spiritual leader are paid and his life's work reviewed. Each year the members of his family are made to appreciate their great sire more and more. My father, President Grant's birthday has likewise been celebrated, and I hope all their lives his children and his children's children to the latest generation will recall in song and story his achievements as a father and a devoted servant of God and his fellow men. There are few families in the Church who do not have a _ background of ancestry that will make any gathering faith-promoting and interesting. And so a splendid resolution for us mothers should be, "Let's get the family together often." ——— 5; pring Beatrice Knowlton: Ekman Now Spring, with scented blossoms in her hair, Walks hand in hand with April down the land And all the trees their virgin mantles wear; Bird song and hum of bees are heard again. Norma Wrathal] T was on the fourth day of Oc community was called Willow il tober 1850, that t ° men rode Creek atcr, the nam Was changed into the valley est of Tooele, to Crantsville In honor of George tah, and looked '3 Out for g Place MM Grant, a TOther of Jedediah O start a settlement. H Same Grant George Grant, 4 colonel jn tive Prompted them that leq Other the Nauvoo gion, was Sent b Pioneers to brave the hazards of the Brigha Young 'to take large of "sert, danger from | dians, ang he defen f the little settlement the fear of th nknown, It was bl it coulg © SO itself. Early j he love of the S°spel and the desire 39 » 4 townsite Surveyed at ° gain p eG, security, and Teligious Willo F Teedom for their loved nes, The two me | Clear aroun akeside, Near the Of the lake, and e Stansbury Island, g sl outh Wiy- 10rt distance Out into the lak explored it to » furnish winter for Stazing livestock. Ms is Skul] Valle one day, hile Harri N the east. Son Severe SCarching for cattle em and Northern Part of the town, Stolen by the In 'ans, he found two Many farms are Dlesseg with natural] skulls, and so Named the valley, flowing wells, so that their 9 Ners The Cedar Mountain Separate ° not have to "Pend upon the Skul alley from the Great Salt Mountain treams ¢ rely. In 10- Lake Desert—4 desert Which can neer days. The first f] Wing well] Was never blossom, It is, In q Way, a dug by John w. Cooley, and of th, lurin the unwa When jt Was first settled, the traveler to his doom by its strange Page 248 GRANTSVILLE AND THE DESERT mirages. 'The water which mses to its surface is salty and unfit to drink. Even today, with the railroad crossing the northern end, and w: th a national highway chartered on a road map to guide the tourist, one would tremble to have his car break down on' some lonely stretch of the road. That early explorers crossed this land with no knowledge of its hazards is, in itself, a miracle. It is the opinion of the historian Charles Kelley that men like Jedediah Smith, Captain Bartleson, Christopher Carson, John Charles Fremont, and other intrepid explorers of this most treacherous desert of North Ametica, should have their names and their deeds recorded beside those of the other great explorers of our naaad tion; but so far, too little has been known of them. This great salt plain was at one time covered by the waters of the Great Salt Lake. 'The Salt Desert has a length of one hundred miles, and is about seventy-five miles wide. Evaporation has removed the surface water, leaving only a great level expanse of mud and salt. No vegetation grows upon this waste, no fresh water enters it, and as far as the eye can see, there is a limitless expanse of dazzling white salt plain. In dry places, and during the summer, this plain is in parts hard and smooth, offering little surface resistance, so that cars seem to skim over its surface. One of these places, the Bonbes e Se tz, e ee bs e LOG CABIN WHICH BECAME A PART OF THE FIRST HOUSE BUILT IN GRANTSVILLE This cabin was built by John W. Clark (not a member of the family related to President Clark). It has been donated by Mr. Clark Jefferies, its last owner, to the Grantsville chapter of the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers and is to be used to house relics. MONUMENT ON THE SITE OF THE OLD FORT This monument was erected by the Grantsville Chapter of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers, July 24, 1934. It stands in front of the old meetinghouse which is now the First Ward chapel. Neville Salt Flats, is now used for testing racing cars. But in damp stretches, and during wet weather, wheels bog down in a mud which is like glue; lt must be scraped from the wheels, and will cling to whatever is used for scraping. Early emigrants crossing the desert on the way to California, had to abandon their loads piece by precious piece, sometimes even the wagons themselves, in order to cross this desert. Because of the peculiar properties, there is no erosion, and the prints of the wagon wheels, and even footprints, are preserved in the salt plain. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 The first white man to cross this desert was Jedediah Smith, one of those who explored the Great Basin under General Ashley, in the years 1824-1827. Although credit is usually given to Jim Bridger for the discovery of Great Salt Lake, «tle honors should be shared with Smith and Provost, who discovered it the same year, 1826, each independently of the others. DURING the first year, the little band of settlers fled to Pine Canyon because of danget from the Indians. They had tried to follow the admonition of Brigham Young: "Don't fight the Indians; feed them," but to no avail. During the months which followed, the pioneers hauled logs from the canyon and sold them to make a few dollars. Prices were very high that year, ten dollars a hundred for flour, and other prices in proportion. But in spite of the hard times, they saved $380 which they invested in oxen. In 1852, they returned to Willow Creek and took up farming. At that time, a branch of the Church was organized, with Benjamin Baker as presiding elder. 'The following families comprised the population of the little village: James McBride, Harrison Severe, Thomas P. Watson, William Davenport, Samuel Steele, Wilford Hudson, William Daley, and William Pope. Indian troubles did not end with the first year. In 1853, it was mecessary to build a fort for protection of the settlers, in case actual war should break out. No part of this structure remains standing. The north, west, and south sides of the old fort were of mud, five feet thick 251 » twelve feet high, and Way to and from Tooele, and, at "lgnteen inches thick at the top. The same time, earn "nough to sy © east wall was of adobe, but it port his family and "arty on his bus. Was never finished, © total ines, length of the wal] WaS 120 rods built at a President Grant labored as presi- 7 average cost of $25 dent of Tooele Stake fr 4 rod, thus Making the tota] c | about $3,000, dustries. Were organized When j It was time to take the Cattle out t | that it js the n | Ome town of President J. Reuben ings, the bishop of Clark, Jr. He Was born in Grantsthe war directed he ACtivities ville, in a TOck house built by his, father from rocks hauled from the Die common one Canyons, and Which stooq Near the " cstate of Samuel WwW olley, on, » aris oe at eocome resident Clark's father, Joshua Cuben Clark, came to the West as 'though. —— ae J one of Many who were looking for A TaNOL i Haliatie ot Uns va mines and Minerals CY, he spent } O years in Tooele take, | scattered Across the Was in the h 88y days, and it was n Make Tistic mg Temodeled and is the Property of the Pay his Own Tantsville First Ward. 252 might have arrived at his destination a little sooner, but Brother Clark would not travel on Sundays, waiting over each Sabbath until the following day to resume his journey. It was in Farmington that Brother Clark, not then a member of the Church, attended his first Latterday Saint service and was deeply impressed by the principles of the gospel and the sincerity of the people. A short time before his baptism into the Church, he attended April Conference in the Tabernacle. The following account of his impression of Brigham Young is taken from his diary: Brigham Young is about five feet eight inches tall, and weighs about one hundred eighty or ninety pounds. He has a good supply of auburn hair. His beard is getting a little gray, and when walking, his eyes are generally cast toward the ground. Ile has what might be termed a smiling countenance, Mr. Clark was baptized in 1867, and the next year he came to Grantsville as a school teacher, starting school with twenty-nine pupils. 'The school was held in a one-room adobe house, a part of which is still standing. In those days,'the teacher had to accept produce in part payment for the pupils' tuition. He boarded with several families, eventually with the Samuel Woolley family, through whom he became acquainted with Brother Woolley's sister, Mary Louisa Woolley, and fell in love with her. 'They were married July 11, 1870, in the old Endowment House in Salt Lake City. Ten children were born to them, seven boys and three girls. \ IIE following notes are taken \ from an account of the early \ \ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 life of President J. Reuben Clark Jr., son of Joshua Reuben Clark and Mary Louisa Woolley: In his boyhood, he 'attended faithfully his meetings, such as Sunday School and Priesthood meetings. He was advanced in the Priesthood as rapidly as age would permit. He was treasurer of the Primary Association of his ward, and president of his Deacons' quorum. He was a home missionary for the stake. President Clark, as a youth, was prominent in the field of recreation, and took part in home dramatics and musical activities. He was a member of the Grantsville Juvenile Band. He knew pioneer life as it was in the early days, and helped his father with the work on the farm. When he was twelve years old, he proudly displayed a cabbage he had raised, at the Pnmary fair. At the age of fourteen, he started helping his father with sheep shearing. He was always obedient to his father, and has said that he never considered himself too old to ask his father's advice. Bryant S. Hinckley wrote this of President Clark: President Clark grew to manhood in the country, and knows something of pioneering. His very earliest recollection is seeing his mother kill a rattlesnake at the back door of her kitchen. In the midst of her other activities, his mother taught him to read and write, so that when he entered the grade schools, he was placed in the third grade. He finished the grades in Grantsville, but as there was no high school in the town at that time, he went through the eighth grade three times. J. Reuben herded cattle for his uncle, Samuel Woolley. He drove them to summer range every spring, and back to winter range every fall. He knows what it is to stay in the saddle all day and all night, to go without rest or sleep for twenty-four hours at a time. The language and the hardships of the cowboy are familiar to him. The only available fuel at that time was wood, which was hauled from the near-by hills and canyons. He narrowly escaped death when bringing a load of GRANTSVILLE AND THE DESERT wood over a deep and dangerous dugway with a lead harness on his horses which made it almost impossible for him to hold the horses. Dr. John A. Widtsoe wrote: The savings of a life unusually crowded with professional and official duties have been used in acquiring and developing a farm. 'The material results of his life's labor are in the land. This is an example for the Church to heed. The home farm of sixty acres of fertile soil and ample water supply produces garden stuff, sugar beets, hay, and other crops. On this farm too are dwelling house, and barns, etc. Horses, cows, pigs are kept. President Clark supervises its every operation, and such time as can be spared from his administrative duties he gives to working the soil, and other essential labor to make the earth yield. President Clark has recently had completed a beautiful new brick home on his farm in Grantsville. He 253 spends many week-ends there. During the summer, his son, J. Reuben Clark IIT and his wife, Emily Anderson Clark, live on the farm and help with the work. Perhaps the settlement of a little town like Grantsville does not seem so great a thing. Yet its settlement, along with that of hundreds of other little towns just like it, their growth and development, their industry and progress, have made up the Western Empire. In these little towns throbs the heart of the West. Perhaps if their founders could come back now, they would be amazed to see the results of their hardships and sacrifice. And no doubt many of them would say, "Oh, I didn't do so much." But to them we might say in turn, "Just look what you started!"' HOME OF PRESIDENT J. REUBEN CLARK JR. ON HIS FARM IN GRANTSVILLE er, Or in common Par > ME violets o Spring! Ho does not €S not @PPleciate their lovely SWeet Y senses from far off €ars; or e€Miniscen iT' § OCIETY. The first Was held jn the Sale Lake Assembly Fal] "pr csentatives Of the Various Prest. Zina J). IT, Oung: OunNsclors Imbal] y at [N Washingt forni Academy Of Sciences, { was her ninetieth bi She is st; g hase Smith, (R), Maine, IS the o Ou Own Rclicf Socicty My, gazi ASSOCiate editor, Congratulations to President Smith on His SeventyNinth Birthday Again, on his birthday, we extend to President George Albert Smith our heartfelt wishes for health and happiness and the strength to ac complish those high aims and purposes which are nearest his heart. May he be remembered by the faith and prayers of Relief Society women in all the stakes and missions of the Church. May his voice be heard in times to come, as in the past, upholding the faith of his fathers and speaking words of encouragement and inspiration as a testimony to a world which now, more than ever, needs the message of the gospel. — ipo Votes 10 THE FIELD Delay in Sending Rolls for Tlames of Contributors to the Relief Soctety Building Fund BECAUSE of the heavy snows and consequent traffic tie-ups involving the mails, as also the covering of mail boxes by snow in rural areas, the general board has delayed sending the sheets to the stakes and missions of the Church on which to write the names of all contributors to the Relief Society Building Fund. If the sheets had become wet or creased they would have been spoiled. Therfore, as soon as it secms safe to send the rolls through the mails, they will be sent. Complete instructions for writing the names of contributors are included with the rolls. Ynstructions Regarding "Tlotes From the Field ' BECAUSE of limited space in the Notes From the Field department of the Magazine, where a picture shows a large number of people, it will be possible hereafter to identify only the officers and persons prominent in the activity represented. It is hoped that this will allow some additional space for more stakes and missions to be represented each month. It is suggested that Relief Society stake and ward officers and also mission and branch presidents review carefully the directions for submit ting material to this department published in the April 1948 issue of the Magazine. As stated on page 274, all submissions are to be sent through stake or mission presidents, as promptly as possible following the occasion which they portrayPage 257 Table Settings and Flower Arrangements EASTER TABLE SUGGESTIONS Mary Grant Judd Member, Relief Society General Board desire to create. The little boy with his tinker toys may grow into the man who will build bridges. The little girl making mud pies to be baked in a make-believe oven may, in later years, become a proficient cook. And cooking is a creative art. Closely akin to the art of cooking is that of table setting. It is surprising how the creative urge Can be satisfied through this simple medium. Most up-to-date cookbooks explain the proper way to set a table for various occasions, so I won't go into that, except to say in passing that here one finds those basic principles of art—repetition, balance, and rhyth