business. How much was it last month?" Joanna laughed. "I keep track by my tithing receipts. Just a minute." She brought the box out of the cupboard and _ opened it. "Twelve dollars and fifty cents. One hundred and twenty-five dollars." Abigail held up floured hands. 'Land sakes o'Goshen!" "But the month before that it was only fifty dollars. Believe me, [ was night scared " She patted the last loaf deftly in place. "But this month I have so many orders I can't possibly fill them myself. Will you come and help me, Abigail? Be my full-time helper?" "Good heavens! Child! I couldn't do that. Henry would have a fit." She went to the kitchen to wash her hands. "It would mean going off relief, and you know Henry hates change." Joanna handed her a towel. "But I'm sure it will be steady. People are asking me to cook for their parties and they want pastries for their dinners. It will be our business, Abigail. Partners." Abigail shook her beautiful silver head. "Henry won't like it. But I'll do it." She nodded vigorously, "Tf vou can take the chances you've RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 been takin', I guess I can, too. Besides, you make it look interestin', this not knowin' whether you're going to eat or not." Joanna laughed. We're going to eat." Abigail's sniff was unmistakably skeptical. "How?" Joanna crossed her big hands on her breast. "In here. Promises." Abigail poured beans into the huge pan. "Wish I had somethin' like that inside o' me. But I'll be your partner, not full, forty-sixty is good enough for me. You thought of it, and you're the one that's been makin' it grow. Henry." she sighed, "... Well, he'll just have to get used to being a capitalist." eK OK re marked the years by such special things as that, being able to have Abigail help her all day long, by being able to hire the protesting Henry to drive an ancient delivery truck Joanna bought, and by Penny's fourteenth birthday. It was to be an event, this fourteenth birthday. Joanna planned a patty. 'They sat around the kitchen table after dinner, going over the details. The children's faces were ecstatic. Joanna's heart smote her. They should have had more of the good things.... Like this party. Penny's face was shining. "I wish I could ask the whole home room. But T'll have Connie.... Oh, Mother, she's clever. She is the smartest girl in the whole school and her clothes are just beautiful Wait until you see." Joanna smacked Michael's hand away from the cookie jar. "You've had ten. That's more than enough for awhile." | "But I know JOANNA She turned back to Penny's radiPenthat Penny gathered and brought home for Joanna s and her own delight, as another might gather bright this wonderful Connie? Penny counted them on her fing: " ", Ruth and Evelyn, she's the red-headed one, and Cora an Sally.--> Sally's brother is the one who is always trying to kiss us." oanna bit back her chuckle. She Jeaned her chin on her palms, reveling in this little moment of peace and companionship with "We'll have 4 Hal- 'Vs so close to stead. To decorate the walls." David grinned down at his sister. "And I'll scare all your sissy friends Pil hide by the gate - -- 4 "Youll do no such thing. Mother, make him promise - - - a this, ten-year-old Sally, dolls or mocking her adoration for some current movie star. I 27) was beginning [0 look square and firm, and his mouth had a straight determined line. He hated it when Joanna was forced to carry heavy from het told David. Everything has to be perfect. David's mouth set 1 that new, e corny. They're used to 4 a Jot." mocked him. Him, Mother. Penny's laughter "Oh, don't listen to He's just bitter. He used to be in love with Connie." Joanna stared sharply at her son. She pored over magazines, judging, discarding recipes. Abigail snorted in disgust. "Land sakes o' Goshen! Ou were having the Archbishop of Canterbury for dinner." Joanna giggled but did not look up from her magazine. "This sounds good, ice-cream cones on the davflushed face - Abigail sat heavily enette and fanned het 272 with her apron. "A lot of work. Remember, you promised to make all those rolls and cakes for that banquet on the day of Penny's party." "T can manage both." "Joanna, you need a rest, not more work. You look terrible." Joanna put the magazine aside and looked at her hands. "I know. Aren't they a sight!" She rose and went to the mirror that hung above the sink. Abigail followed her. "You don't take care of yourself. No rest. No creams." She patted her own soft cheeks. '"That's one thing I've never forgotten. Every night I." But Joanna was not listening. She leaned forward staring at the stranger in the glass. She was very thin, her cheeks hollow under the high bones. Her eyes looked very large and deeply blue, but it was around her mouth that the years showed mostly, the years of tightening her lips for the daily struggle. Those years had thinned her mouth and etched lines at the corners. Her brown hair was drawn back in a roll on the nape of her neck. Joanna laughed, and the reflection showed fleetingly as a sliver of light, the lost brightness of her youth. She looked down on her hands leaning on the sink board. 'They were brown and scarred and rough. "You could be right handsome," Abigail said softly, "if you'd take things a little easier, take care o'yourself." "T haven't time yet." "But you can't go on alone like this.... Years are running away from you." Joanna turned briskly from the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 mirror. "I'd never find anybody like my David. Besides, I have no time for any man." She stared over Abigail's head. "The only dream I have is of going to California some day, taking Penny and the rest of them. I want to look at the sea. I've had a hunger for it all my life, landsmen's hunger. I want to see those palms I've been hearing about and I want to lie on those beaches and rest. Someday Ill do that." She looked at the clock. "Good heavens! Abigail! We'd better pitch in or we'll never be through with this night's work. I want to cut out those jack-o'-lanterns for the party tomorrow."."Humph! A lot of work for mighty small fry." "But Penny's getting the worst of it all. That's why this party has to be right." "The worst of what?" Joanna leaned against the sink. "By the time the others are grown, Sally, Michael... David even, I'll really be set. They'll have the good times, the good clothes. Penny's the one that's doing without, and she's helping me like a grown woman, an' she's only fourteen." Abigail got the pan of apples from the back porch. "Pies first? All right. Don't worry about the party, Joanna. Don't worry." "Tm not." "You're worried as a settin' hen. Remind me to bring over some of my special face cream. Every night I pat it on an' it's just done wonders for my skin, why I says to Henry, 1 "? SayS OANNA piled the family's gifts to Penny on her breakfast plate. She hurried about the kitchen, mak- 273 nd squeezing Orange and ake Poured oyt Upon the ayJuice. Jt Was s Tange, | She'd tumn air Joann Orked alone never worried before oy, Whether Abigail' Plesence Made her Nery Or not Penny wo Id like anything oys she bought, but tod she Watched, She Put on her best black dress Teath hh d, to see how Penny at three-thirty, 4nd reme bered t Would like the yellow Sweater she Put lipstick on her pale Mouth. She had Chosen, €nt to the front dows. Abigail "nny lifted the yellow woo] + 41S SUPPosed to vite Michae] and er Shoulders and danced Cver to § lly for dinner. Davi Was goin 1@ mirror "Oh, Mot eT, you' to a Movie, Joanna Wondered at Wwonderfy]| Ow did you know the thick Pounding In her throat Wanted gq New sweater and skirt She say h co. And ycllow, My favorite color?" "Well, though ming down the street, Penny j; th € you looked ight o Pretty in jt." ight had smooth Nd. Yello hair der a tiny fur beret t, am J eally?" She wore a 'mart blue coat with a Joanna said softly, "] EUCSS every collar that Matched her hat. That girl in the World asks that Westion must onme. Joanna watched Wen she's your age. Yes Penny, the girl' face when he saw Penny' you are," 70use. She saw the delicat brow. Penny went in for a last look the living room, " Ve Talse, and th fyes slide to t looks just the 8tls around her, " | ll light the jack-o' Canna watche he Minute we home, [Ij will Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274. SOCIALS, BAZAARS, AND OTHER ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Florence Maller AUSTRALIAN MISSION, PERTH BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, September 24, 1948 First Counselor Florence Maller is shown at one of the booths prepared for this unusual and very beautiful exhibit. Included in the displays were dolls, sea-grass baskets, stools, children's wear, crochet work, hand embroidery, and many novelties, including toy animals. Particularly useful, as well as beautiful, were the colorful aprons and tablecloths. This active branch, "the most isolated in the world" (According to Sister Maller), is very devoted to all phases of Relief Society work. The Perth Branch was the first in the Australian Mission to complete its Building Fund quota, which was raised through personal donations and a most successful concert. Many of the Perth sisters travel long distances to attend their meetings and find much satisfaction in Relief Society work to reward their efforts. Sister L. Macmillan is president of the Perth Branch Relief Society and Sister H. Glass is second counselor. Blanche K. Richmond is president of the Australian Mission Relief Society. Page 274: NOTES FROM THE FIELD 275 nadia submitted - caiear McPeak NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION, SANTA ROSA BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS, November 8, 1948 Left to right: President Agnes Gross; First Counselor Mary S. Sanders; Second Counselor Ada M. Wilson; Secretary-Treasurer Grace McPeak. These officers have recently been released and new ones appointed. Mary S. Ellsworth is president of the Northern California Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Clare K. Claridge MOUNT GRAHAM STAKE, LORDSBURG (NEW MEXICO) WARD RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, November 7, 1948 Seated, left to right: Margaret B. Speer; First Counselor Edith B. Bradberry; Elva B. Hatch of Roswell, New Mexico. Standing, left to right: Ruth B. Barnes; Orpha B. Nally; Leta B. Harwood; Lucille B. Bailey. A special feature of this conference was the honoring of Sister Edith B. Bradberry, an outstanding Relief Society officer and a well-loved member of the community, and the mother of six daughters who helped to furnish music for the conference. Erma M, Stewart is president of Mount Graham Stake Relief Society. 276 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 Photograph submitted by Vera H. Mayhew BERKELEY STAKE (CALIFORNIA), EAST RICHMOND WARD CHRISTMAS PARTY, December 21, 1948 This party was a particularly happy and well-planned occasion, with appropriate seasonal decorations, refreshments, and a Chnstmas program. Officers of East Richmond Ward Relief Society are: President Candus McDaniel; First Counselor Della Chester; Second Counselor Ruth Yancy; Secretary Beatrice Brough. Vera H. Mayhew is president of Berkeley Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Nadine Brown NEBO STAKE (UTAH), PAYSON THIRD WARD SINGING MOTHERS ASSEMBLED AT THEIR CHRISTMAS CANTATA, December 1948 Front row, seated, left to right: Pamela Huber; Nellie Bannister; Second Counselor Fern Williams; President Isabelle Millett; First Counselor Ida Reece. Second row, seated, left to right: Helen Cowan; Vida Moore; Pearl Blain; Dolly Simmons; Elda Day; May Bishop. - Third row, seated, left to right: Sarah Tanner; Ann Wilson; Naomi Tew; Hazel Baird; Elma Peck; Iva Chase; Della King. Back row, standing, left to right: Iris Amos; Hazel Manwill; Elsie Eckersley, organist; Ramona Smith, pianist; Ruth Walton; Julene Pans; Zenda Jones. This chorus has presented three Christmas cantatas and two Easter cantatas, and, in addition, they have served the community and the ward in many meetings, entertainments, and on other occasions. Nadine Brown is president' of Nebo Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 277 Photograph submitted by Alligee L. Anderson JUAB STAKE (UTAH), NEPHI FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR December 9, 1949 Left to right: work committee members, Ruby Cox, Ireta Park, and Ruth Wells; work mecting Icader Elnora Foote; assistant Secretary-Treasurer Lucille Lunt; First Counselor Pearl Jenkins; President Alligee L. Anderson; Second Counselor Kate Haynes; Secretary-Treasurer Mayme Kendall. The photograph shows only part of the many beautiful aprons, quilts, rugs, and many other articles which were very carefully made for this bazaar, one of the most successful ever held in the ward. Lua L. Stephenson is president of Juab Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Josephine S. Bird UTAH STAKE, PROVO SIXTH WARD CELEBRATES A CENTURY OF SETTLEMENT IN UTAH VALLEY Ten Former Relief Society Presidents Wearing Authentic Pioneer Costumes. Seated, left to right: Phoebe Smoot; Inez Menlove; Frances Callahan; Eliza C. Nelson. Standing, left to right: Violet Stevens; Martha Brimhall; Marion Johnson; Fay Loveless; Rosalind Oakley; Priscilla Jensen. ) Sister Nelson was the first president in this group and Sister Brimhall the most recent past president. Zola Sandgren is now the ward Relief Society president. Josephine S. Bird is president of Utah Stake Relief Society. ~~ 278 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 edie py a POWER iia rel b rere oe a er le Pie need A sree Egat, oe ates Photograph submitted by Ellen C. Toombs NORTH BOX ELDER STAKE (UTAH), BRIGHAM CITY THIRD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS ASSEMBLED AT A SOCIAL, July 13, 1948 Left to right: Secretary Ellen C. Toombs; President Rose Young; Second Counselor Mildred Rasmussen; First Counselor Laura E. Zundel. Lucille L. Wight is president of North Box Elder Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Hilda H. Bringhurst ZION PARK STAKE (UTAH) PRESENTS PLAY "THE BRIDE'S INVITATION" Annual Fall Convention 1948 In the photograph the mother, at the right, represents the Relief Society organization. She is telling her daughter, the bride, who represents all young women, the values of Relief Society and The Relief Society Magazine. As various phases of the program were discussed by the mother, the pages of the Magazine opened to reveal these activities. About sixty-five people participated in the play which was written by Elda N. Jepson of Hurricane. The poems, and the songs, which were sung by the Singing Mothers, including the music, were all composed by members of Zion Park "The Bride's Invitation" -.----s---sescccescsecserectete tetElda N. Jepson "A Tribute to the Visiting Teacher" - ----------------sRoma W. Stout "Joy of Living -.-.----words by Partha Jackson and music by Dixie Harrison "Song of Praise" ------words by Camilla Judd and music by Mildred Sanders In the above photograph the mother is represented by Josephine Sandburg, and the bride by Mary Helen Tweedie. Hilda H. Bringhurst is president of Zion Park Stake Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 279 WESTERN STATES MISSION Grand Junction (Colorado) Relief Socie Officers and Magazine Representative Seated: Arya Algood, Magazine representative, Standing, left to night: President Laura Barlow; Secretary Melba Larsen; Counselors Mary Cunningham and Estelle Or. Chard. Sister Algood writes: "While my hus. Band spent eleven days hunting deer, J The Relief Society Magazine. J] sold some to men and found a number of them who were very much interested in it." As a result of her devoted "followup" work, Sister Algood has secured 116 subscriptions in a branch with a membership of sixty-seven, Lula P. Child is President of the West. Erm States Mission Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Margaret M. Peterson NORWEGIAN MISSION, STAVANGER BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OFF ICERS 280 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 Photograph submitted by Luise Petersen NORTH CENTRAL STATES MISSION, ST. PAUL (MINNESOTA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, November 1948 Seated, left to right: President Luise Petersen; First Counselor Laura Koutz; Second Counselor Jeanette Jesse; Secretary Bertha Stewart. Note the beautifully designed quilts in the background and the plain and fancy aprons. Embroidered pillowcases, crocheted hot pads, toys, tea towels, guest towels, and many other well-made articles were displayed, making an unusually successful bazaar. Laura M. Hawkes is president of the North Central States Mission Relief Society. "ys Photograph submitted by Nina Callister EMIGRATION STAKE (UTAH), STADIUM VILLAGE SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MANY PROGRAMS THROUCHOUT THE SALT LAKE CITY REGION Front row, seated, left to right: Chorister Nina Callister; organist Irene Bartschi; chorus president Alene Schofield, secretary Lois Livingston; vice-president Katherine Bradford; Iris Heap; Carol Bitner. Second row, seated, left to right: Virginia Ivins; Jane Lee; Margaret Talbot; Beth Taylor; Shirley Howarth; Fern Wilson; Verna Mae Burnett; Dana Woodbury. Back row, standing, left to right: Evelyn Lawrence, Delsa Anderson; Marjorie Holman; Margaret Richards; LaReah 'Toronto; Jeanne Olson. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 281 These young women, whose ages range from twenty to thirty-one, are wives of ' veterans attending the University of Utah. 'They are all mothers, with one to three children. Sister Callister, in reporting the activities of this ambitious group, says: "In many places the young mothers drop out of Church activity because of overwork with the new child, but the Stadium Village mothers care well for their children and daddy takes over after classes on the night when mamma is 'singing out.' The chorus _ meets weekly in the village at the home of Margaret Richards." Mildred Dyer, not in the picture, is the president of this Relief Society. ": Winniefred Manwaring is president of Emigration Stake Relief Society. &ighty-Seventh Birthday Nan S. Richardson This is my birthday, without consideration— I'm eighty-seven years, no exaggeration; I don't feel very I don't feel very old, optimistic observation, young, this needs some explanation. But I'm happy, looking forward with great anticipation For better days to come in this last dispensation. ——iP-e Thunderstorm (Continued from page 238) YRA stopped suddenly, all the | bitterness and anger gone. And she was sick with realization 'of what had happened. She saw Bob swallow. He said quietly, "We sounded just like the Hendcrsons." Myra pushed open the front screen and ran down the steps. She heard the door slam, Bob's voice, "Myra!" He was running, and he musn''t run! By the Henderson's fence she swung around to face him. She heard a voice say affectionately, "There. Here's a cushion for your back, Nonnie." "Thanks, dear." Mr. And Mrs. Henderson were sitting close together in the lawn swing, so close Myra could have reached her hand through the feathery shrubbery and touched them. They were drinking lemonade. Bob reached Myra. He. Said, "Honey—" And then stopped, fascinated, too, by this new picture of the Hendersons. Myra saw Mr. Henderson pat Mrs. Henderson's. Hand. "Mighty cooling lemonade, Nonnie." Nonnie Henderson looked up at him, a twinkle in her brown eyes. "Not near as cooling as that hose would have been this morning, if you hadn't moved!" "Would you a'squirted on me? Really?" "IT sure would of, if you hadn't moved.", The old man chuckled. Noticed I moved quick." Nonnie Henderson bent over and kissed him gently on the cheek, and the lawn swing swung contentedly back and forth. Myra felt Bob take hold of her arm, pilot her up the street. "What do you know!" he whispered. "Their quarrels don't mean anything. They "You 282 are just thunderstorms to clear the air. You can see they are nuts about each other." "Oh, Bob, I was going to be so noble." "Sure. Me, too. Noble Bob, a hero to the end with never a gripe, never a cross word to the little woman. But people aren't noble, honey. They're just poor humans bristling with annoying habits." "T didn't really mean it, about getting a job." "Why not, honey? That is, for awhile. I think that's what you need. Maybe for just half a day. You could bring the groceries home and I could fool around in the kitchen fixing meals." Yes, alone in the kitchen, Bob could manage very well. "I'd never leave you alone!" "Okay, so I'd be alone a half day, so what? I'd have enough to keep me busy—looking after my canaries." "Your canaries!" "Yeah. I'm going to raise canaries to sell. Fellow in the hospital gave me those magazines and I've been studying up on them, trying to decide." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 Myra went on a mental tour of their small house. "You could have them in the basement." "Basement!" Bob said indignantly. "Basement'd be too damp. 'The glassed-in porch would be just the ticket. Even temperature. Lots of sunshine." Myra's mind tried dizzily to adjust to the future and a front room full of warbling canaries. ""Th-that's a grand idea. Is there money in it, Bob?" "You bet!' Bob's voice was enthusiastic for the first time in months. "This fellow was telling me, over a period of time, his brother made enough money to pay for his home. I figure.", "Enough—" the words came out thick, "enough to someday afford a baby?" Bob pulled her hand through his arm and patted it. "You bet. Darned soon! That's why I said work at the book shop, but only for a little while. Until I get this canary business going. Okay?" Myra's small world righted itself and began to turn, crazily, stormily, but happily. "Okay, Bob,". She echoed. O— Through the Darkness (Continued from page 244) profile, and she saw the tears glistening on his lashes; and his lips were moving silently. Instinctively, she knew they were saying a_ prayer. And she had thought he didn't care enough! A deep peace crept over her. And a new strength, a strength of faith and hope, one that she had lost for awhile, but which Larry had carried through the darkness. She turned and walked noiselessly to the window and looked out at the bright autumn day. Wet branches shook their dripping leaves gently. "Becky!" She felt Larry's hand on her shoulder. "You were gone so bright and early. I didn't even hear you. When did you get up?" She turned and smiled up at him. "Oh, I got up when it was still dark." THROUGH THE DARKNESS she said brightly. "But look, Larry, isn't it a lovely day?" He looked at her quickly and a broad grin spread over his face. "Uh-huh," he said and squeezed her shoulders in his arms. "Maybe it's nice enough we could even go dancing tonight. Do you think?" "Maybe," she said and _ slipped her arm through his. ~~ The Boy There (Continued from page 228) forty had risen to the top of the bank on either side and threatened to spill over. But Pa had only laughed at that. He wanted to stop working and go back to the house. It would be easy to find excuses for coming in. He could go to the attic room and he would be safe. He thought of his father, and it was like the pressure of a steadying hand on his shoulder. He took a firmer grip on the shovel handle. He began working quickly as though there was no fear in him. He kept reminding himself of the look there would be in Pa's eyes if he should know his son had quit, left a job unfinished. Feverishly he worked for what seemed a long time, never once looking to the east nor at the dark sky above him. He kept saying, "T've got to get this done. It's my job." The moisture in the air had changed to actual rain now. He felt the drops, large and cool, against his forehead, on his bare arms, through his shirt that was already clinging to his small body. The 283 C neuen a NYLON UNDERWEAR Men and Women NOW AVAILABLE Write for Particulars SALT LAKE KNIT 36 South Main GUIDE BOOK BY VERLA BIRRELL This book classifies, compiles and indexes THE ACTUAL CONTENTS OF THE BOOK OF MORMON Archeology, Geography, Customs, Ete: 28 Charts 6 Maps Facilitates teaching, research, and study Send for your copy now! MAIL A COPY TO YOUR MISSIONARY Bound in Black or Jade $5.00 DESERET BOOK CO.—Z. C. M. I.—BOOKCRAFT Salt Lake City, Utah a_to_te_t_ tt ttt, t, t htt ti 284 mug we Diyjerencel AT THE CLICK OF A SWITCH Electricity does it better, faster and at low cost. GO ALL-ELECTRIC BUY FROM YOUR DEALER UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. | RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS.. When you come to CONFERENCE visit our store for your musical needs. Choral—3 part and all other types of music GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74 So. Main St. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 darkness around him was suddenly streaked by lightning and there followed a crash of thunder which seemed to split the sky open. There was another rumble in the distance. For a moment he thought it was thunder, but there was no lightning now and, instead of rumbling to silence, the roar seemed to grow louder and loudcr, seemed to come closer. The smell in the air was of mud and wecds and of water rushing forward, gathering spced and horrible powcr. He wondcred bricfly about the Jones family. Then, instinct, that neither reasoned nor was afraid of consequences, made him throw the shovel to the ground and start running, instinct that was life itself running for safety, not toward the Jones house but toward the side of the valley where his father's and mother's house stood for everything that was safe and sure. The lightning flashed oftener now and the thunder almost shut out that other steady, awful roar. He must go faster, faster... Faster. If his Pa were only here he would not be afraid. He would put him on his shoulder and in a few, long strides they would be on the slope; they would be on top of the hill looking down upon this terror instead of being a part of it. His breath seemed to be dragging the life out of him, each breath came harder, making his side and his shoulder hurt, making his thin legs tremble beneath him and his heart pound. He couldn't go very much farther but he must... Must _. Must. He could see the water now like some great animal in the THE BOY THERE distance moving toward him, belching foam and slime and death. He thought, briefly, if I he down with my face to the ground it will all be over in a hurry. It won't hurt much. Then he looked up. He saw something like the face of God. He saw his father and Tip on the upland, coming toward him. His father was calling loudly, "Hurry, boy, [Pe hurry! E, saw Tip leaping and barking " like one possessed; he thought | he saw the look in Pa's face, and suddenly he became as light as the | thistle he had often held in his hand for the wind to whisk away. His feet that had dragged before | were winged things, carrying him | forward, until his father was meeting him on the slope, was lifting him above the roar and chaos of the | flood waters that lapped greedily over the place where, a moment before, he had been. He. Was safe. Of sweat and man. He could hear the loud clap-clap of his father's heart against his own. He closed his | eyes fora moment. Then he heard |. But | Tip making strange noises.. There was no reason for him to yip now, no reason to bark so frantic- | ally. Words, "He's caught in some weeds. The flood's got him." "Tip," Denny cried, wiggling to | get down. "I gotta get him, Pa. 1| got fon Once down, he started toward the | slope where the dog was entangled in briar bushes and the limb of a tree. A few large rocks formed a Safe against the | warm, firm shoulder that smelled | He looked at Pa and Pa answered | the question in his eyes with the | 285 "BUY LINES" familiar to thrifty homemakers everywhere "SEARS ROEBUCK AND CO. Since 1883 - Pembroke's has earned the patronage and goodwill of all the Intermountain West through a com-, plete assortment of the finest quality. And the greatest willingness to | please trademarks that have; always made shopping at Pembroke's a pleasure whether your. Needs are R Social and Commercial Stationery R Office Furniture R Greeting Cards and Gifts R Writing Needs and Art 'Supplies | |e er.. STATIONERY, GIFTS and OFFICE SUPPLIES 24 East Third South Dial 4-8424 | 286 Mormon Architecture Edited by Joseph H. Weston. Fine book containing 103 large pictures of tempies ' and outstanding chapels of the Church. An and board binding. $6.00 postpaid. These Amazing Mormons! By Joseph H. Weston. A newspaperman's best selling description of the L. D. S. People. Paper bound, $1.00 postpaid. Where Do Ideas Come From? By Joseph H. Weston. A philosophical essay that is gaining in popularity. Paper bound, 50c postpaid. Pictures of the Temples Beautiful 10 x 15 inch pictures of L. D. S. Temples, mounted on white matboard, suitable for hanging on wall of office, Relief Society room, or home. Each picture 75c postpaid. Specify name of temple desired. Complete set of eight pictures priced at $5.00 postpaid. WESTON PUBLISHING CO. 660 S. State SALT LAKE CITY 2, UTAH L6464.43.444.4244.4444.44444444L48h Professional ae | Seal Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1949 cove that for the moment prevented him from going forward with the heaving torrent. His father's hand on his shoulder stopped him. "You can't do it, Denny. The hill's slippery. One misstep and you'll be a goner. Come on boy. We'll git you another dog." His voice was gentle, his touch was kind. Denny started to turn, blindly, then he looked at the dog, saw the mute trust in his eyes, heard the expectant whine. Denny said, "You weren't scared of bein' drowned when you and him run out to get me. I gotta save him, Pa." Unconsciously, he had been seeking means and ways. Now, without stopping, he ran toward the trunk of a tree on the edge of the hill, climbed it and, with the agility of a cat, was out on the longest limb. He was soon near the end of it. It was going down beneath his weight, nearer and nearer to the water. Once, twice, he reached out for 'Tip, only to miss him. The third time, he cried, "Here, Tip. Here, old boy." The dog seemed actually to stretch itself upward to meet the hand that was ready to close upon his fur, to lift him to safety. Holding the dog carefully, Denny moved slowly backward on the limb. His father was there to lift the two of them with the largest, gentlest hands in the whole world, he guessed. They reached the house. Ma kissed him again and again, then put him to bed and spooned hot milk into his mouth, though he protested stoutly that he was all right and wanted to stay up. Pa, stand- THE BOY THERE ing at the foot of the bed, told him, "Mind yer Ma, now. That's good for what ails you." He must have fallen asleep, for when he opened his eyes he was alone in the room and the shades were drawn against the sunlight, which had returned as swiftly as it had gone. Tip was lying beside the bed. As Denny lifted his head, the dog's ears came up, his tail thumped the floor, his body quivered for recognition. Denny turned down the clean sheet and his hand went down to tangle in the damp fur of the dog's neck, "Good old Tip," he whispered, "good boy." Lying back again, he reached over _ with his free hand to pull the shade from the window. Outside, he could see the trees just as he temembered them real and sure. From the other room he could hear his parents talking. His Pa was saying, "Yes, the boy there had a close call, mighty close, Ma." And after a strange silence during which the boy heard his father clear his throat and make a sound like a choked, unwilling sob, the man went on, "Ma, he's a fine, upstandinglad.. I..1 " His voice broke again. Denny felt his heart leap against his ribs. Tenderness rose in him as the flood waters had risen in the valley. When he was younger—yesterday, perhaps —he would have wept. Now, he felt ashamed of tears, of his own, of his father's. Suddenly, he understood many things, mostly about his Pa. His only sign of the emotion within him was the tightening of his fingers in the dog's damp fur, a tather husky whisper to the dog, "Sissy." 287 SSESRERERERERERERBSERESRE ER RERERERRER SE LADIES' THREE-PART SONGS for your Mothers Day Program 116476 Little Mother of Mine Soe {-.20 M-O-T-H-E-R Johnson 20 Mother Rubinstein-Nordman 18 Mother Beloved Dunlap 2ooooo 18 567 Mother's Lullaby Senob 0 JS 2W1016 Mother Machree Pall. 15 3168 Mother O' Mine Tours i. "lS 181 My Mom Donaldson WS 516 Song of May (Thanksgiving Song for Mothers) Asper _.2. O. An a5 3118 Songs My Mother Taught Me Dvorak-Stickles __ as 14687. Songs My Mother Taught Me Dvorak o. Oo enn 10 We specialize in music for L. D. S. Choral groups of all types. Write for information. Music sent on approval. Mail orders filled promptly. You are cordially invited to visit our store during Conference so that you may see our complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home and school; our Steinway and Lester pianos; orchestra and band instruments; records: and musician's accessories. PIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY aunes Music Co 45-47 SOUTH i SALY LAKE CITY 1, UTAN MAIN STREET awunp SuUeeweeweves Every (ood Book You Read Enriches You On the Way to Immortality and Eternal Life__ 93-00 By President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. A. Historical exposition of the background out of which the Gospel was restored, showing the need for the restoration of the way to immortality and eternal life The Vitality of Mormonism _ $2.00 By James E. Talmage This popular collection of classical essays on Gospel themes from the incomparable pen of a scholar and master is in great demand Joseph Smith, An American Prophet._..$3.25 By John Henry Evans An ever popular expository biography designed to help non-Mormons understand and appraise Joseph Smith fairly and accurately DESERET BOOK COMPANY OFFICIAL PUBLISHERS AND DISTRIBUTORS FOR THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS 44 East South emple Street Salt Lake City 10. Utah Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 HIL-M V- 6-1734 CHOICE GIFTS For Special Occasions — Birthdays and Wedding | Anniversaries Recognition Remembrances to Relief Society Officers and Visiting Teachers "WIST YE NOT THAT | MUST BE ABOUT MY FATHER'S BUSINESS 2" The Visit of Jesus to the Temple at Twelve Years of Age BY President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. An invaluable reference book on temple ceremonies and sacrifices in the time of Christ. With illustrations. $1.50 postpaid. All rights and royalties assigned to Relief Society. > = & THE OFFICIAL RELIEF SOCIETY PIN Blue baked French hard enamel and 10 carat solid gold front with 24 carat gold-plated back. Bearing the motto and seal of Relief Society. (Postpaid) 2.00 $1.20 - TEMPORARY BINDERS FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Substantial temporary binders, into which single copies of the Magazine for one year may be inserted or removed at will. Reduced to $1.00 postpaid. SEND ALL ORDERS TO GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 
