[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: LUCY A. CLARK. | Author: Unknown]

LUCY A. CLARK.
IN A GREEN and shady bower,
	Where the creeping ivy's twine
Flowers and mossy velvet carpet
	Is a picture grand, sublime.
'Neath the bower a form is seated,
	Manly, noble-browed and just
And beside a lovely maiden
	Greets his smile with fervent trust.
They are gazing on the future
	Loving hearts they both enfold,
Plighted vows they cast together
	In affection's sacred mold.
Close beside a bark is anchored,
	In a pure and sparkling stream,
In they step and from its moorings
	Float away on life's young dream.
On they float and every shadow 
	That apears upon the scene,
Vanishes before affection's
	Bright and glittering holy gleam.
Years pass by and still they're floating,
	And the vows they made in youth,
Have grown purer, dearer, stronger
	While they've labored for the truth.
Such devotion makes them happy,
	When they reach the golden shore,
Where bedecked with well-earned laurels
	They will dwell for ever more.

	President Hess spoke briefly of his mis-
sions and other experiences; his being
called to go in the Mormon Battalion; spoke
of the privations and hardships encountered
by the brethren who went in that company.
	Wm. O. Clark, of California, made a sort
of brief review of his life; mentioned seeing
Joseph and Hyrum in Clay County, Mis-
souri, when he came off a mission, and the
people were leaving Missouri and going
over into Iowa, pell mell. He told Joseph
then of Isaac and Abel Galland. One of
them owned 160 acres of land across the
Mississippi, in Commerce, which the people
could get on easy terms. Joseph said, "we
must go there and rest." The people went
and built up Nauvoo; referred to the time
when the Apostle, David Patten, was shot,
and his father imprisoned in Ray County,
Missouri. There were no charges against
him; his innocence was proven. Since
those days he had traveled in Europe, Asia,
Africa, East India and Japan. He had
been among the Buddhists. Father Smith
had placed his hands upon his head and
said, "You shall have the privilege of going
among the crowned heads of the world;" he
had been in two railroad smash ups and left
for dead; had the plague in Egypt, Cairo,
and had not expected to live, but he looked
in his Bible, and found courage; knew he
would recover; there were three hundred
foreigners there in despair, but he recov-
ered. On the sea he was at one time five
days and nights in darkness and storms;
the voice said to him, "You shall see home
in peace." Then I thought of this people-
the world will come to this people, and
when banks fail we shall have the world

[Column 2]
coming here. When I go back to the West
to wind up my affairs and come back, which
I must, I shall think of this place, and of
the boys here (Farmington,) where there is
no saloon."
	Elder Ezra T. Clark reviewed his past
life for the fifty years, and spoke of his suc-
cess in his family, and referred to his kin-
dred who had come long distances to be with
him on this occasion; his gratitude to them,
and his love for this people with whom he
was associated; said many good things that
were appreciated by all present.
	Sister Mary S. Clark spoke of her joy and
her happiness under all circumstances, be-
cause of the Gospel; of coming here among
the sagebrush, living in a log cabin, but the
Lord had blest them in their family; they
were all in the Church; all faithful and all
temperate; she rejoiced to see so many 
friends come from afar to do them honor,
and those who had come from the city, and
their neighbors; welcomed all. 
	Sister Rhoda Cooper, 85 years old, sang
the hymn, "Who is this faith one from the
wilderness traveling?"
	Sister Rhoda Douglas spoke much upon
faith and the powers of healing, related re-
markable instances, and exhorted the young
people to serve the Lord. A poem com-
posed for the occasion by Dr. Ellis R. Shipp,
was read by Sister E. B. Wells. A duet
was rendered by two of the young people
from California. The program was under
the direction of Edwin B. Clark, son of
Brother and Sister Clark, and was very well
carried out, there were about three hundred
people present. 
	There were twenty-one relatives from a
distance besides some from Idaho and dif-
ferent parts of Utah. The presents were
quite valuable, a large picture of the First
Presidency of the Church, handsome gilt
frame, was given by friends in Farmington,
the home of Brother and Sister Clark; a
handsome white French clock with gilt
ornaments from their children. From W.
O. Clark and wife, a gold ring and spectacles
for Sister Clark and gold headed cane for
Brother Clark. Rhoda Cooper, Santa Rosa,
gold belt buckle Sister Clark and gold
headed cane Brother Clark; handsome gold-
finish fruit dish Lewis Cooper and family
California, Geo. W. Clark and his Sister
Cora Gilbraith two silver cups gold lined. 
Jewel case Dr. and Mrs Ezra Clark Rich-
nut dish, silver and gold Dr. C. F. and Mrs.
Wilcox, salt set gold, in pale green plush and
silk case Mrs. G. A. Tupper Santa Rosa.
Mrs. H. O. Clark, San Francisco, gold tea
spoon engraved in bowl with Cliff House,
the handle California emblem the bear,
shovel and pan of gold, San Francisco in-
scribed on scroll—Nellie and Holly Clark,
souvenir spoons solid gold in filagree, work
engraved with the golden gate San Francis-
co, Miss Netta and Miss Nellie Richardson
California, desert spoon gold, handsomely
engraved; there were also other presents of
less value. The wedding cake which was
very elaborately decorated, was cut and
friends were permitted to take pieces home.
	Doxology was sung and the benediction
pronounced by Bishop Secrist and the wed-
ding guests separated, feeling the evening
had been an enjoyable one and long to be
remembered.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Men And Women a new paper has
been started in Utah, which promises fair
representation and discussion of all ques-
tions, and to favor home interests.


