[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | June | Issue: 2 | Title: IN THE TABERNACLE. | Author: Unknown]

IN THE TABERNACLE.
	THERE was probably a larger gathering
of the old folks in the Tabernacle this year
than on any previous occasion, and the
picture was a pleasing one. The visitors
occupied the front seats in the centre of the
building, and the delight manifest in their
appearance was in itself compensation to
the Committee. Carnations were distri-
buted by a committee of ladies, and the
fragrance and beauty of the flowers must
have been grateful to the silver haired men
and women. Held’s band was there with
its choice selections, and the “Old Folks
choir” did not neglect to sing “Auld Lang
Syne” and other popular melodies, and
Brother Wm. Dunbar had his bagpipes,
and the Deseret Guitar and Mandolin Club
together with the Tabernacle choir was the
complete musical part of the program.
President George Q. Cannon presided,
Elder George Goddard offered prayer after
singing by the choir; and in remembering
the Old Folks, did not forget Queen Vic-
toria’s Jubilee and the birthday of Bishop
Edward Hunter.
	President Wilford Woodruff was present
in person, and though he was not able, be-
cause of a cold, to speak, had prepared a
written address which was read by Elder
David McKenzie, the speech of welcome
by President George Q. Cannon, was given
in his most gracious and cordial manner wel-
coming the veterans and refering to long
life as a blessing from the Lord to those
who had obeyed His laws and sought to
serve Him..
	We regret lack of space to give his ad-
dress and other interesting facts of the eve-
ning, but we give the address of the vener-
able Pioneer and President in full as it ap-
peared in the Deseret Evening News.
PRESIDENT WOODRUFF’S ADDRESS.
	President Wilford Woodruff, one of the
few who has passed the ninetieth milestone
of life, was on the program for an address,
but being the sufferer from a bad cold, his
address was a prepared one which was read
by Elder David McKenzie. It was as fol-
lows:
	“My Dear Friends—I thank God that I
have lived to see this day. I rejoice to be-
hold the faces of so many of my friends
gathered together in this great Tabernacle.
We who have been upon this earth from
seventy to ninety years and upwards have

[Column 2]
passed through one of the most interesting
generations of the children of men. What
marvelous changes have taken place during
our lifetime! We see things today and
look upon them without wonder that in our
early days would have been considered
miraculous. When I was a small boy we
had just emerged from under the blue laws
of Connecticutt—to greater freedom of
thought and action. The ducking stool
and other forms of punishment akin to it
had been laid aside. Women were no
longer hanged or burned at the stake as
witches. Greater religious liberty was en-
joyed. Women were allowed to kiss their
children, husbands their wives, on the Sab-
bath day without being punished for it. If
a boy took an ear of corn from the field,
although even then he might be punished
for it, he was not in danger of being sold
as a slave, as in former days. The im-
proved condition of things had just been
brought about when I came into the world.
But greater and more wonderful changes
have been accomplished since that time. In
my boyhood every acre of grain was cut
with a sickle in New England. The first
advance made in that direction was when
the hand cradle came into use. The reaper
and the binder were never dreamed of in
those days. If such things had been
brought into the wheatfields then, the peo- 
ple of the land would almost have thought
the millenium had come. And there has
been rapid advancement in almost every
department of life.
	“I need not take up your time in detail-
ing the many changes and improvements
that have been made. We live today amid
the wondrous powers of steam and electric-
ity, by which such marvelous things are
being accomplished. All these things have
been brought about in our day, and I feel
to thank God for what He has done for the
children of men in blessing them as he has
done. Mankind have great cause for
thankfulness to our Father in heaven be-
cause of the many blessings he has bestow-
ed upon them in this day and generation.
	“We who live in Utah have especial cause
to thank and praise His holy name for the
blessings we enjoy. I have spent fifty
years in these valleys of the Rocky moun-
tains and have passed through all the
phases of territorial government until we
have arrived at full statehood, and I feel it
a great privilege to meet with so many of
my friends and citizens of the State of
Utah, and I consider it proper here to
make some reference to our arrival as
pioneers, and the commencement of our
labors in this great American desert. And
I should be recreant in my duty and justly
place myself under strong reproof did I
not give the honor and glory to our great
prophet, seer, revelator and pioneer, Presi-
dent Brigham Young, who under God,
laid the foundation of redeeming this great
American desert from its sterility into the
fruitful and noble State of Utah as we find
it today. President Young was inspired to
come here, and he was inspired to work
after he got here, and when Samuel Bran-
nan, who took the ship Brooklyn from New
York to San Francisco, loaded with Latter-
day Saints, came to this barren country and
met with the pioneers, he looked at the
desolation and barrenness, and tried with
all the power he had to pursuade President
Young not to stop here, but to go on to
California. I heard President Young give
his answer to Samuel Brannan in the fol-

[Column 3]
lowing language, striking his cane into the
soil. “No sir; I am going to stop right
here. I am going to build a city here. I
am going to build a temple here, and I am
going to build a country here.” And by the
help of God he lived to see all this fulfilled.
He dedicated the corner-stone of the Salt
Lake Temple, and dictated the building of
the Temple up to the time of his death.
He directed the building of the St. George
Temple, and he moved a great mountain to
get a place to suit him upon which to erect
the Manti Temple. He pointed out the
place upon which to build the Logan Tem-
ple, and he did a great deal toward its
erection. He built the big Tabernacle in
Salt Lake City, and he dictated to the
architects nearly all that is upon the Tem-
ple block. There is hardly a city or town
in Utah that was not laid out under his
direction.
	“I brought President Young into the val-
ley in my carriage. This was the first
time he had ever seen the place, except in
vision, and as we came around the bend
where we could have a good view of the
valley, he wished me to turn the side of the
carriage so that he could have a better
view, which I did, having a door opening
on the side of the carriage. After viewing
the valley awhile he said: “That will do,
drive on; this is the place. I have seen
this valley before in a vision.” President
Young had been sick for several days on
the Weber river, and several of the Pioneers
had gone ahead and cut the road through a
quaking asp grove, and had formed a camp
and commenced breaking ground, but it
was so very dry that it was difficult to
break it until it was watered. I arrived at
the camp at 11.30. It was a little north-
east of where the Knutsford hotel now
stands. I had in my carriage one bushel of
potatoes, and I covenanted that I would
not eat or drink until the potatoes were
planted in the earth. I fulfilled this coven-
ant, getting some of the brethren to help
me, and soon had my potatoes planted.
	*	*	*	*
	“Although we were on Mexican soil we
planted the American flag soon after our
arrival here. We immediately went to
work and as a protection against Indians
surrounded a ten acre plat on three sides
with a ten foot adobe wall—on the remain-
ing side with log cabins. Immediately we
had to dig ditches and get water to our
crops or nothing would have matured.
With our surveyor’s chain and compass
President Young went to work to lay out
Salt Lake City just as we see it today, with
its broad streets and sidewalks, in the
midst of dry, barren sagebrush, with scarce
a white man’s house within a thousand
miles of us. I assisted in all that work.
Many of you who are before me have also
labored and toiled to build and beautify
this country and make it what it is today.
You know what we have had to pass
through in all this. But God has been
with us. He has crowned our labors with
success. He has blessed the land and
made it fruitful; and we have been able to
surround ourselves with pleasant homes
and many of the comforts of life. There-
fore, I say, we have great cause to be
thankful to our Father for the blessings 
we enjoy.
	“God bless the aged fathers and mothers
of Utah. They have performed a mighty
work in this land. They have worked and
toiled, and sought to do good on the earth,


and they are worthy of respect and honor
in their old age. We ought to do all we
can to make them happy while they live
upon the earth. I hope you who have come
together here, on the old folk’s excursion,
will have a good time while you are here.
I pray God to bless you all, and comfort
your hearts. I do not know how much
longer I shall tarry with you, but while I
remain I want to do all the good I can.
This should be the desire of all of us.
Many of us have lived a long time on the
earth, and have tried to serve God and carry
out His purposes, and we should continue
to do this until we are called to the other
side of the veil. God bless you all. God
bless our children, that they may grow up
to follow in the footsteps of their fathers
and mothers, and to take up the work that
will devolve upon them when we shall pass
away. I feel to bless you and all the peo-
ple, and ask God to bless you, in the name
of Jesus. Amen.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
