[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | June | Issue: 2 | Title: SAN JUAN. | Author: Unknown]

SAN JUAN.
	MINUTES of the Relief Society Confer-
ence of the San Juan Stake of Zion, held at

[Column 2]
Mancos, Colorado, May 23, 1897, Stake
President Martha Hammond presiding.
Present on the stand were Apostle Frank-
lin D. Richards and wife Jane S. Richards,
and Elder Charles W. Penrose, Counselor
in the Salt Lake Stake. Of the Stake
Presidency F. A. Hammond and Wm.
Halls. Opened by the choir singing the
hymn “Glory to God on high;” prayer
was offered by President F. A. Hammond;
continued by singing “Softly beams the
sacred dawning.”
	President Martha Hammond expressed
her pleasure in meeting in Relief Society
Conference again and of being favored with
the presence of Sister Jane S. Richards,
First Counselor to the President Sister Zina
D. H. Young, also the visiting brethren.
	The reports of the different branches
of the Stake were listened to. All are
doing fairly well but there is room for im-
provement. The General and Stake officers
were unanimously sustained.
	Counselor Jane S. Richards commenced
her remarks by saying, should the babies
cry she did not want them sent out of the
place as she felt they were angels; if she
could not talk louder than a baby could
cry she would take her seat, as she did
not want the mothers to be deprived of
coming to meeting because they had babies.
“I do hope the mothers will be more dili-
gent in the training of their children, as the
evil one is doing all in his power to lead
them astray, therefore it will require the
undivided attention of the parents, teaching
their children to be truthful, honest and
virtuous. Our young women as a rule
seem to think that the Relief Society was
organized for the old ladies, but that is not
the case for it is for old and young alike,
and I hope all will try and attend to the
Relief meetings as often as they can and I
hope the sisters will continue to store wheat
as President Brigham Young counseled
them to do in case of famine. We know
not how it will come or when, and the
safest way is to prepare for it. I do wish
the parents, the mothers especially, would
attend the Primaries occasionally; it not
only encourages the children, but would be
a great help to those who have them in
charge.” Gave other instructions, among
them she enjoined upon the sisters the
necessity of sustaining their own paper, the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	Elder Penrose, of Salt Lake City, said
what was worth doing at all, was worth
doing well, then if we undertake to do any-
thing in the different associations, we
should apply our whole energy to that duty
and do it well. If we give our hearts to
the Lord, then we will be willing to give
all we have to His cause Hoped that the
sisters would put barriers in the way of the
wave of unchastity that is sweeping over
the people, and be very firm and earnest in
instructing the youth in being chaste and
virtuous.
	Apostle Richards said in order to keep
up our proper growth, men and women
must understand what their mission is here
on earth, and each one of us should be
satisfied with our mission here, as the Lord
understood what he was doing when He
sent us here. Spoke very impressively on
the subject of chastity and virtue, which
was previously spoken on by Elder Pen-
rose, and for parents to keep strict watch
over their children and not allow them to
be roaming around at night, and wanted
the Bishops to attend the Primaries and

[Column 3]
show to the children that they have an in-
terest in them, also to counsel and assist
the sisters in the care of the wheat that
they have to store up.
	President F. A. Hammond added a few
remarks endorsing all that had been said.
The Conference was adjourned for three
months, after which the choir sang. Bene-
diction by Bishop George Hall.
	EVELYN ADAMS, Stake Sec’y.
BEAR LAKE.
	THE Bear Lake Relief Society convened
at the Bloomington meeting house May 23,
at 10 a. m., President Hart of the Stake
presidency being on the stand. After sing-
ing, prayer was offered by Brother Walter
Hodge; the choir sang “Hail to the bright-
ness of Zion’s glad morning.” The offic-
ers roll was called, after which President
Lindsay expressed her thankfulness to God
for the many blessings we were enjoying.
Said the forenoon meeting would be de-
voted to reports. The following branches
of the Relief Society were accordingly re-
ported as in good condition, the sisters
enjoying their labors and felt that the
Spirit of God was with them. Blooming-
ton, President Patterson; Paris First ward,
Sister Jane Stucki; Paris Second ward,
President Innes; Lanark, Sister Loveland;
Liberty, Sister Austin; Ovid, President
Carlson; Bern, President Kuntz; Naunen,
Sister Williams; Georgetown, Sister H.
Huff; Bennington, Sister Merrill; Mont-
pelier, Sister Bagley; Dingle, Sister Sparks;
St. Charles, Sister N. A. Pugmire; Fish-
haven, President Howell; Garden City,
President Linford; Lake Town, Sister
Nebeker; Wardboro, President Lindsay;
Thomas Fork, Soda Springs, Round-valley,
Randolph and Woodruff being the only
ones in the whole Stake not represented.
	President Lindsay said that there had
never been a better representation of the
Relief Society before in this Stake and
urged the sisters to awake to a sense of
their duties and live that they might enjoy
a goodly portion of the Spirit of God to
lead and guide them in all their under-
takings. Spoke of sustaining the Priest-
hood of God. Meeting adjourned by sing-
ing “Jesus my own Redeemer.” Benedic-
tion by Bishop Finley.
	At 2 p. m. meeting was called and after
the usual devotional exercises the sacra-
ment was administered; during the admin-
istration of the same the choir sang a
sacramental hymn. President Lindsay
spoke a short time giving timely advice
and counsel. Counselor Elizabeth Collins
feebly tottered to the stand and expressed
her thanks to God for sparing her life un-
til this time. Spoke of her travels through
this Stake of Zion and felt that her work
was nearly done. Her only desire was to
be faithful to the end.
	Counselor L. M. Hart spoke of the good
work being done by the Relief Society.
Addressed the young ladies, urged them
to be kind to their parents, especially their
mothers; said “They will not always be
with you, do not wait until after they are
gone before you realize what they have
done for you.”
	Sister Mary Bagley said there was a
great responsibility resting upon the
mothers in Israel, they should be worthy
examples for their children.
	Sister Hodge expressed a desire to do all
she could to further the good work. Presi-
dent Joseph Hart spoke of the liberal


[Column 1]
donation of the Relief Society for the Stake
Academy. Urged a careful education of
the young people in Zion, they should be
examples of purity to the world.
	The statistical and financial report was
then read, after which the minutes of Con-
ference were read and approved. Sister
Amelia Hodge was set apart to assist in
the Relief Society of the Stake and meeting
adjourned by the choir singing an anthem.
Benediction by Bishop Finley.
			ROSE HILLIER, Cor. Sec’y.
SALT LAKE STAKE PRIMARY.
	Minutes of the Primary Conference
of the Salt Lake Stake held June 19, 1897,
in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Presi-
dent Camilla C. Cobb presiding. Singing,
“A happy band of children” prayer by
David Cummings; continued by singing,
“Merry, merry children;” roll called with
twenty-two associations represented; min-
utes of previous conference read and ap-
proved. The following program was
rendered: A quartett, “Song of Welcome”
was sung by the Beesley children from the
22nd Ward. A sketch of the life of Brig-
ham Young was read by Frankie Young
from the 14th Ward. Recitation by Bessie
Fryer, 5th Ward. Lilly Conelly from the
2nd Ward, gave a story from the Book of
Mormon. Birthday song, “The Latter-
day Prophet,” was sung by the children.
Pioneer sketch by Judith Anderson, 13th
Ward. Motion song by a number of child-
ren from Forest Dale. Sentiments from
the sermons of Brigham Young by twelve
children fiom the 19th Ward. “Utah we
love thee” was sung by six girls from the
7th Ward. A motion song was sung by
Irene Tucket from the 11th Ward. Thir-
teen children from the same ward recited
the hymn that President John Taylor sang
to Joseph Smith one hour before his death,
“A poor wayfaring man of grief.” Reci-
tation, “Angels Guide,” by Della Jones of
the 15th Ward. Song by a number of
children from the 21st Ward. Recitation
by Chloe Brown from East Draper. Song
by members from the 1st Ward.
	President Louie B. Felt spoke in a pleas-
ing manner to the children. Said she had
enjoyed listening to the program given in
honor of Brigham Young, was reminded of
the great good he did while he was living;
also of Sister Eliza R. Snow. Related a
story showing the importance of never re-
fusing to do any duty we are called upon
to perform.
	President Cobb said she had listened
with pleasure to the exercises. Felt to
thank the General Board for furnishing the
booklet that had aided us in celebrating
the birthday of President Brigham Young.
Said conference would be adjourned for
three months. Singing Doxology. Bene-
diction by Brother Beesley.
		ELLA W. HYDE, Stake Sec’y.
OAKLEY, IDAHO.
	I will give you a synopsis of a portion of
the celebration of June 1, 1897. Three of
the Primaries met at Oakley Hall, the ex-
ercises were as follows: Opened with sing- 
ing “Hymn for the Latter-day Prophet.”
Prayer by Brother D. P. Curtis, a member
of the Mormon Battalion. Singing by the
Marion Primary association “Let love
abound.” First, Recitation entitled
“Angels Guide,” by Royal Price. Second,
singing “’Neath the old-apple tree,” by
two boys and two girls of the Marion
Association. Third, A short address on the

[Column 2]
life of Brigham Young by President H D.
Haight of this Stake of Zion. Fourth, In-
strumental music by Miss Vilate Bates of
Marion. Fifth, “Twelve reasons why we
honor Brigham Young,” answers by twelve
young ladies, Oakley. Sixth, An essay on
the Biography of Brigham Young by Ruby
Pickett. Seventh, Instrumental music,
Geneva Elison, Oakley. Eighth, Recitation
by Willie Sessions of Marion. Ninth,
Twelve sentiments from the sermons of
Brigham Young by a class of boys and
girls of the Oakley Association. Tenth, Re-
marks on the worthiness of the character of
President Young, Moroni Pickett, Marion.
	President Priscilla Worthington made
closing remarks and announced for the
children, to adjourn to the Lee Hall at 3
p. m. for further pleasures of the day.
Services closed by Oakley choir singing,
“A happy band of children.” Benediction
by Brother Thomas Dunn, also a member
of the Mormon Battalion.
				S. E. ROBINSON.
P. S. Other Primaries and Sunday
schools celebrated the memorable day at
their respective places.	S. E R.
EAST MILL CREEK PRIMARY.
	THE Primary of East Mill Creek cele-
brated the birthday of our beloved presi-
dent, Brigham Young, in the following
manner: First was the raising of the
Stars and Stripes, then came the program.
Opening hymn. “Our God we raise to
Thee” by the Primary children. Invoca-
tion by Bishop’s counselor Samuel Oliver.
Continued by the Primary singing “When
many to the Savior’s feet.” The opening
address to the children was given by our
Bishop in a most eloquent and able man-
ner, admonishing the children to read .and
study the life and character of Brigham
Young as one of the most noble and great-
est of men, whose name stands in the front
as a colonizer. “I look back with pleasure
upon different times when I have been in
his company with my father.” And he
then spoke at great length upon the merits
of Brigham Young.
	“Why we honor Brigham Young” was
recited by Leonidas Fisher. Twelve senti-
ments of Brigham Young were given by
twelve little children. A birthday song
for the Latter-day Prophets was sung by
the Primary choir. “Angels Guide” was
recited by Miss Genie Neff; interspersed
with addresses, questions and answers,
Articles of Faith, songs and recitations.
	The program closed by singing “Trust
the children.” Benediction by Brother J
M. Fisher. We then had lunch followed
by dancing for the children, and an evening
party for the adults, making in all a very
 njoyable day and one long to be remem-
bered by both old and young.
