[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | June | Issue: 2 | Title: THE PIONEER JUBILEE. | Author: Unknown]

THE PIONEER JUBILEE. 

	GREAT preparations are going forward
here and in other adjacent localities for
celebrating the Pioneer Jubilee of a half
century; the Hall of Relics is nearing its
completion and is quite artistic in design,
and presents something of the appearance
in its whiteness of the World’s Fair build-
ings in Chicago, which caused Jackson
Square to be designated as the “White
City.” Were it a permanent building the
city might be proud of it; as it is, one can
only enjoy its beauty for a little season.
	The foundation for the monument in
honor of President Brigham Young is also
in process and the work is being pushed as
rapidly as possible. Other matters that
have been undertaken are not so noticable,
but the people are given to understand that
everything is progressing and it is expected
that there will be the greatest gathering in
this city that has ever taken place here.
	The pioneers themselves, the real veter-
ans should be honored and made to feel
that their labors are appreciated by those
who are reaping in a great measure the
benefits of their toil and endeavors. This
generation born in the valleys of the
mountains know comparatively little of the
hardships and positive suffering of those
who came to this desert and opened up the
land for homes and habitations that they
now enjoy, and made it possible for them
to go on and improve and establish great
industries and great institutions of learn-
ing of which these pioneers laid the earliest
foundations. The greater part of those
valiant men and women have gone behind
the vail, but for those who still remain no
pains should be spared to make the Jubilee
all that it can possibly mean to them.
Something more than mere show and
pageantries, or even brass bands or martial
music or military parade The spirit of
the Lord must permeate the Jubilee pro-
ceedings if it be an acceptable tribute to
those who are expected to be the recipients
of this homage.
	The people who came up here in 1847,
came by inspiration and dedicated this land
to the Lord for a resting place for the weary
saints, and the Lord has wonderfully blest
their efforts, and caused the earth to bring
forth in abundance, and this same spirit
must continue and abide with the people if
prosperity is to crown their labors in the
future as it has in the past. The original

[Column 2]
settlers of these vales were men of God
who relied upon His wisdom to guide them,
and must do so still in order to secure His
blessing and approbation.
	A useless expenditure of time and means
for the sake of show is not in keeping with
the spirit of the pioneers, nor was it to the
Pilgrim fathers and mothers, as history and
tradition abundantly testify. Economy at
the present time is the first consideration,
how to make the wisest and best use of
means and material, and whatever is ex-
pended for the Jubilee should be for that
which will make a lasting impression, or be
a fitting tribute to the memory and ser-
vices of the faithful ones, who labored
more to secure freedom and liberty for
those who should come after them than for
their own individual selves. They were
planning and building for the future, and
deserve commendation from those who have
partaken of the privileges they earned by
the sweat of the brow and wrought out of
the soil.
	Let us all hope that the Jubilee may be
to those veterans all that it promises now
and much more in its spirit of love and
union; that it may teach a valuable les-
son to the younger generation and to the
strangers who may visit Utah on that
occasion.
	The Columbian Exposition taught many
lessons to those who took part in it, and it
is greatly to be desired that the Jubilee
may awaken a spirit of enterprise and of
industry, that will cause capital to be invest-
ed that will give employment to the labor-
er and materially enrich the country.
Utah abounds in raw material of various
kinds, and one of the interests which ought
to have fair representation is the silk in-
dustry. Those who know the great efforts
made by Brigham Young and others
associated with him in securiug mulberry
seed and raising the trees, and finally bring-
ing sericulture to be something of a home
success, realize its importance in furnish-
ing employment, for women and children,
especially, though men not able to do hard
work would find sericulture remunerative,
and much better than being idle,for idleness
is the parent of many vices.
	So much is being said publicly and pri-
vately in these days so near the Jubilee, of
Brigham Young and his wise enterprises, it
is devoutly to be hoped that the silk industry
will be brought prominently forward, for it
was one of the things he emphasized most
strongly, and in which he believed it safe to
invest capital and be sure of quick returns.


