[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | June | Issue: 2 | Title: LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. | Author: Unknown]

LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Hall,
Saturday May 27, 1897, President M. I.
Horne presiding. Singing “ Once more
we come before our God;” prayer by Sis-
ter Agnes M. Jones, singing “Welcome
best of all good meetings;” minutes of
previous meeting read and accepted.
	President Horne felt glad to be with us
today, and was sure those who stayed
away were the losers. Heard a married
man say he did not want his wife to give
up her public duties for they made her a
better woman. No one can take a bless-
ing away from us which we earn, therefore
we should be comforted, for God is just.
Said we should be kind to one another and
spoke on charity. We should always be
humble and if we injure any one go to that
person and make it right, or if any one in-
jures us, to do the same; by doing this we
place ourselves in the hands of the Lord;
also we are doing our duty. It is har-
boring unpleasant and unkind things which

[Column 2]
makes people unhappy. Prayed the Lord
to bless us this afternoon.
	A sister in the congregation bore a
strong testimony. Sister Sebeck felt thank-
ful for the good counsel and teachings of
Sister Horne. Spoke on forgiveness.
	Sister Brixen felt she must speak of
God’s goodness to her and testified God
heard and answered prayers. Said how
blessed we were in having the Priesthood,
we felt this more when there was sickness:
	Sister Mary Hanson told her experience
in the Church and bore her testimony.
Sister Morris felt the testimony of truth
burning within her heart, felt sorry
when she heard the young people make
light of anything sacred and felt sorry to
see so few here today
	A sister in the congregation testified the
Lord heard and answered prayers, spoke of
her daughter who was not in the Church,
and how she prayed to the Lord over it.
She heard a voice say to her, “Your de-
sire shall be granted,” and it was, her
daughter joined the Church afterwards.
	Sister Wright said she tried to always
arrange her work so nothing would inter-
fere with these Saturday meetings, made
some excellent remarks.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson said every time she
attended these meetings she had a feast and
she felt thankful for them. Said some of
her friends tried to persuade her to go
Saturday afternoon to the ‘‘Grand’’ to the
matinee, but she told them of these meet-
ings and how much more she enjoyed them
than the Theatre. Exhorted the sisters to
be awake to their duties, said it was the
little trials that were the hardest to bear,
for larger ones we could round up our
shoulders and bear them. “ It is the little
foxes that spoil the vines.”
	Sister Clara C. Cannon felt she was in-
deed a blessed woman in having a testi-
mony of the Gospel. Spoke of a manifest-
ation she had once while in trouble, a very
bright light came into her room and it was
this that gave her courage and strength.
	Sister Mary E. Kimball said she had
had a testimony for fifty years and knew
her Redeemer lived. Felt today was the
time for us to be diligent and zealous said
she loved everything that was good and
pure and desired to always do her duty.
Referred to some sayings of Brother Heber
C. Kimball’s.
	Sister E. B. Wells felt there was a
great deal of missionary work for the wo-
men and that the women were spreading
the Gospel. Felt the Lord was perfectly
competent and willing to help us with all
our trials, made some beautiful remarks.
Spoke of the Exponent and its mission,
also of the Woman’s Store,said that was not
sustained as it should be, and made other
excellent remarks.
	President Horne said she was very much
interested in the remarks of Sister Wells
and felt to endorse everything she said in
regard to the Exponent. She would very
much dislike to see the paper die and urged
the sisters to do what they could to sustain
it, also spoke of the Woman’s Store and
said that it should be sustained as well.
President Horne felt that this had been a
great care on her; felt these were temporal
things but the temporal things had to be
mixed up with the spiritual.
	Singing, Doxology. Benediction offered.
by Sister Julia C. Howe.
