[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | June | Issue: 2 | Title: THATCHER, ARIZONA. | Author: Patriarch Phileman Merrill. Singing]

THATCHER, ARIZONA.
	MINUTES of the Relief Society of Thatch-


er ward, Arizona, held June 3, 1897,
President Elizabeth Moody presiding. Meet-
ing opened by singing. Prayer was offered
by Patriarch Phileman Merrill. Singing.
There were present of the Stake Presidency
President Willmirth East, Mary Ransom
and Serena Merrill, her counselors. Roll
called, forty-four officers and members pre-
sent. Minutes of previous meeting read
and approved.
	President Elizabeth Moody made opening
remarks. President Willmirth East spoke
words of comfort and encouraged the sis-
ters in all good works. Said our trials
were to purify and exalt us, tried to im-
press upon the sisters the necessity of tak-
ing and reading the EXPONENT.
	Counselor Mary Ransom said, “Think
of the magnitude of the work these branch-
es of the Relief Society are accomplishing.
She exhorted all to be diligent in their
labors.
	Counselor Serena Merrill said she heard
the Prophet Joseph Smith say we could not
realize the greatness of the work. By per-
forming our duty we should have joy and
satisfaction in our labors, and strength to
bear all our trials. She had never felt a
doubt as to the divinity of Joseph Smith
and the truth of this work.
	Counselor Elizabeth Layton bore her
testimony and spoke very feelingly of the
long illness of President Christopher Lay-
ton. Patriarch Phileman Merrill addressed
the sisters; spoke on the duties of mothers
and said children should be taught at home
obedience, truth and virtue.
	Sister Mary C. Cluff spoke of the energy
and willingness of the sisters of Thatcher
in performing their duties.
	Bishop Samuel Claridge spoke of Sister
Moody’s good works, as she had faithfully
performed her duty for a great many years.
She was now going to Utah on a visit for
two years. It being necessary to appoint
some one to fill the vacancy during her ab-
sence, Sister Maria McRae was unanimous-
ly sustained in that position.
	President Elizabeth Moody wished the
good will of the Bishop and sisters during
her absence while in Provo. Felt well in
her labors and exhorted all to be united
and diligent.
	A great many of the sisters from other
wards were present in honor of Sister
Moody’s departure, as she is widely
known and respected. Our sisters in
Thatcher are among the first in charitable
acts. Recently a brother and sister had the
misfortune to have their home burned; they
came readily to their assistance, as within
twenty-four hours they received $140.75 for
their aid.
	At the close of the meeting ice cream and
refreshments were served to all present by
the Relief Society. Altogether it was a
very enjoyable time.
		SELENA PHILLIPS, Sec’y.
		DIANA J. ALLEN, Ass’t. Sec’y.


[Column 1]
