NEW EDITORS OF MAGAZINE APPOINTED
Just as the Magazine leaves for the press, the announcement is made of the appointment of Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, general president of the Relief Society, as editor, and Professor Alice Louise Reynolds, of the Brigham Young University, as associate editor of the Relief Society Magazine.
Guide Lessons for May
LESSON I
Theology and Testimony (First Week in May).
HEEDING COUNSEL
The Meaning of Counsel. Webster gives a number of definitions to the word counsel. For a theological meaning he refers us to Matthew 19:21. In this lesson counsel shall mean ecclesiastical, authoritative advice including parental advice.
The Nature of Counsel. All counsel carries with it responsibility. The one who gives it becomes responsible for results, if it is obeyed; and the one receiving it becomes responsible for results, when it is not obeyed. Counsel is indicative of love and confidence. When counsel is given without an expectation of its being heeded, it takes the nature of a warning, and when it is received with a determination to follow it—the advice is at once reacted to by gratitude and the one to whom it is given accepts it as a gracious gift.
Counsel is full of free-agency.
Three Degrees of Obedience. There are persons who so love and trust their leaders that a suggestion is all that is needed to get joyous acquiescence to what is desired by recognized authority. Lovers never wait for orders from each other; they are on the alert to find out what each other's wishes are. There are those who are loath to obey anything less dictatorial than a command. Counsel has too much liberty in it for them. They serve better under a "Thou shalt," than they do under an "It is my will." There is a third class who obey. They respond not to counsel, they procrastinate with commands but they heed warnings that bristle with penalties. In the first group, love leads with confidence at its side. In the second group, respect leads followed by fear. In the third


group, fear comes to the front. One can scarcely conceive of commands being given between husband and wife. The sage who wrote, "The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom," might have added, "but the love of the Lord is wisdom complete."
The Word of Wisdom as Counsel. When this revelation was first given it was presented as the mind and will of the Lord, not a command with penalties for disobedience, but a statement of truths with promises of blessings to come through its application in living. The Saints were counseled to keep the Word of Wisdom and many heeded the counsel. Then came a time when the Word of Wisdom was officially presented as a command with a curtailment of privileges as a penalty for its disregard. Today we have the constant warning of religion and science against a disregard of this revelation, and no doubt some there are, now breaking the Word of Wisdom, who would cease its violation if they were brought face to face with the alternative of giving up their standing in the Church or giving up their indulgence. The fear of punishment moves most strongly with some intelligences, while the hope of reward is most powerful with others.
Heeding counsel is a habit of those who "Seek the truth and find it, too, And in the search are glad; Are much more moved by love of good, Than by the fear of bad."
Public Counsel. The leaders in the Church responsible to the Lord for their leadership are constantly alert to the needs of the people and the conditions of the Church. They carry responsibilities incomprehensible to the laity. They have authority and inspiration from the Lord, the general approval of the people, and the support of those who heed their counsels. And these supporters are they who are proving to the Lord that they are not "slothful servants," but are possessed of a loyalty that entitles them to class ""A" consideration. The history of the Church is replete with evidence that the path of counsel-heeding has been one of safety for individuals and groups, and there is no lack of proof that disregard of counsel has been a highway to disaster. Private Counsel. One should not ask for counsel unless the asking is accompanied by a willingness and an expectation to heed the counsel. The young man who sought the advice of the Savior was worse off ee GUIDE LESSONS 151 after the counsel was given than he was before. There is a difference, however, between seeking counsel and asking for an opinion, One may get the opinion of several persons on a matter and not act on the suggestion of any of them. The giving of an opinion is widely different from the giving of official counsel. The latter is entitled to reverential consideration. The right of the priesthood to give private counsel is as unquestioned as is the right of the parent to give counsel to a son or a daughter. The bishop is father of the ward as well as the common judge, and similar relations exist between the stake officers and those over whom they preside in the Priesthood. It is a serious thing to disregard private, official counsel. The Lord recognizes the counsel given by those sustained in official positions, and he will see to it that no one shall lose by heeding official counsel in his Church. It should go without saying that all private counsel given, sought, or heeded, should be in harmony with public counsel. To seek advice that would conflict with the admonitions of the authorities indicates that one is inclined to Church anarchy but is lacking the courage to strike the attitude alone. To give counsel conflicting with the general policy of an institution is akin to conspiracy against the institution. The heeding of private counsel that conflicts with public counsel pits one against the institution and one or the other must go down to defeat. Institutional Heeding of Counsel. Whenever emphasis is placed on a matter by the counsel of the general authorities that emphasis will be taken up by the organizations in the Church. If the emphasis is on attendance at sacrament meetings it will be made emphatic in the Priesthood quorums, and in the auxiliary organizations, the Church schools, and the seminaries, and 'the homes. Just now the call is for attention to Priesthood activities and this counsel will not go unheeded by the Relief Societies, for these organizations are "helps in government" as well as institutions to aid individuals. Every home will carry over the emphasis and the mother part of that "carry over" will be no second part. The counsel against going to California was in early days unheeded by some people to their sorrow. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Read or quote the scripture upon which the theological definition of counsel is based. 2. To what extent is the giver of counsel responsible? 
 3. Under what conditions does counsel take the nature of a "warning? 4. Discuss the three degrees of obedience and state what might have been profitably added to the first part of Psalm, 111:10, 6. Discuss the proposition ""Heeding counsel is essential to fitness for celestial glory." 7. Why has the Word of Wisdom passed from an expression of the will of the Lord with promises of reward for heeding it, to a command with penalties for disregarding it? 8. On what grounds may we expect that the breaking of the Word of Wisdom will yet become a bar to Church membership? 9. Why is heeding their counsel the best support that can be given to the authorities? 10. Illustrate by story that heeding public counsel is the path of safety. 11. -Bear testimony of the benefits coming to you through heeding counsel. 12. Distinguish between asking for an opinion and seeking counsel. 13. Show the folly of seeking for, heeding, or giving private counsel that conflicts with public counsel. 14. How may institutions help in the heeding of counsel? 15. Discuss heeding counsel as one of heaven's highest laws. LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in May) LESSON IN Literature (Third Week in May) "THe SKETCH Book" What Irving did for Spain, in his priceless gift of The Alhambra (observed in last lesson), he had already done for his own and the mother country in The Sketch Book. The rich legends of the Moors, enhanced by Irving's imagination and preserved in his spicy style in the Alhambra, was merely a parallel to the sketches that had earlier captured the spirit and legends of the GUIDE LESSONS 153 Dutch on the Hudson or mirrored English life and habits. These papers, over thirty in all, were published in America in 1819-20, in seven installments—all under the title of The Sketch Book. This work bears the great distinction of being the first to bring from England any recognition of America in literature. "Who reads an American book?" was the stinging challenge that went unanswered until Irving broke the crust of prejudice and literary taste. Think of it! Only a hundred years ago did our country produce what was recognized as her legitimate literary offspring. At a time when America and Americans were the ridicule of all English travelers and writers only a sky-rocket could have appeared above her horizon. Concerning this prejudice Irving indulges in bolder irony than is his custom: "A great man of Europe, thought I, must be as superior to a great man of America, as the peak of the Alps to the highland of the Hudson—I will visit this land of wonder, thought I, and see the gigantic race from which I am degenerated." From England, Irving had to send his sketches to America to be published. Immediately they were heralded as classics by Scott, Goldsmith, and other celebrities—the former interceding successfully for their publication in. England. Now what was the great contribution which this new work has made to the field of literature? Half of the papers were essays on English life, institutions, and customs, as seen through the eyes of an American. Though Irving was not a philosopher he was a keen, sympathetic observer. In the purest and most beautiful diction he transfers to his readers the fascination that he feels for beauty in scene or tradition or character or custom. Irving was certainly genuine in his admiration of much of the Old World's splendor and custom, though his American tastes and satire, often biting chipped away much of the glamor and decay of the English intitutions. The keen thrusts in John Bull, Little Britain and other essays, though covertly hidden under a condoning smile, or offset by praise, shows clearly to one who knows his English his'ory that while Irving enjoyed his old friend John Bull he saw in him the mistakes of the English Parliament and Empire and wished him different. But essays—political, social, literary, descriptive, satire, narrative—all kinds, had just been perfected even in this very field by Addison, Steele, and Swift. Irving merely added to the list of excellent literary essays. To be sure, he contributed a distinct America color, and his own beautiful diction, clear and graceful and elegant, with his narrative genius made The Sketch Book most interesting reading in this fertile period. But not for his essays is Irving most read or most honored. His unique distinction is that he gave to the world the first near 
 approach to the modern short story; second, that he is the first to make America a background for romance and legend using native characters and customs.; Until this time there had been only the long story—novel, in usually two to six volumes, or merely the tale or the narrative in verse. But when The Sketch Book brought out Rip Van Winkle, a new form of literature was revealed. A form distinctly American is the short story, not only in its inception but in its development and perfection. The one form of literature in which America excels, launched by Irving, found its greatest masters in our own Hawthorne and Poe (though France made a noble contribution) and is still the form in which numerous writers here are winning their literary laurels. Whether these stories of Irving's can be classified as the short story, as that word is used today, is a matter of dispute. Nearly every author of texts on American literature speaks of them as short stories; yet every author on the technique of the short story so limits its definition as to make it a too highly specialized form to include Irving's narratives. The popular use of the word short story may mean any narrative that is more than an anecdote or less than a novel in length. But that form of literature now known as the short story is a dramatic narrative that reveals one idea or motion. That is, a unit of action artistically narrated that gives a single impression. Judged by such a standard, nothing of Irvings could be called the short story. Yet Rip Van Winkle was decidedly the nearest approach to it. Surely it has dramatic qualities and is an interesting narrative, but certainly it does not give one single impression. Another requirement, of the modern ideal, is that a climatic series of events portray character in a struggle. But wherein does Rip make a struggle, or even attempt to shape events? He does not resolve to bring anything about; he merely wanders aimlessly away and things happen without one plan or intention of his, merely in the style of an adventure. Though Irving's stories were not cast in the mold of the present ideal short story, they are at least its worthy progenitors, and are still among our richest narrative treasures. Who does not find Rip Van Winkle an interesting story? Who has not laughed at its full ind quiet humor? Who has not been swayed by its graceful elegance and satire? A good story well told, conveying a truth or truths about life—so far it is worthy. The Legend of Sleep Hollow, though a wealth of native color and atmosphere, splashes out into a long drawn sketch only as does The Spectre Bridegroom. Even the ghost stories in them are poorly told. In The Wife, The Broken Heart, The Pride of the Village, The Widow and Her Son, sentiment runs so much to sentimentality that it cloys the taste of the present generation.