[Vol44 | November 1957 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Fiction | Title: Netting | Author: Burt]
Netting Today Olive W. Burt ETTERS passing through the Salt Lake City postoffice, with stamps from countries all over the world, indicate that Utah women have triumphantly won a battle, and the winning signifies the beautification of the home, the happiness of many people. This battle is the fight to preserve the ancient craft of netting, a handicraft that seemed, a few years back, to be disappearing from many areas where it had once flourished. With machines taking over so many of the jobs formerly done by hand and in the home, netting might easily have disappeared in most localities altogether, had it not been for the valiant efforts of Utah women. And this is rather strange—that this craft, born of the sea, should find its staunchest defenders in inland Utah. But that is the story. The craft of netting was brought to Utah by Latter-day Saint converts from Norway, Sweden, France, and other countries where fishing was a basic industry. It is exactly the same art as fishermen use in making their nets, adapted by the womenfolk to the making of delicate lace to trim linens and to beautify the home. In place of using rope and heavy sticks, the women used thread and a slender steel needle, but the stitch was exactly the same as that used by the menfolk. Netting was very popular with the Utah pioneers, because they had very little material for fancy work, and in this craft any kind of thread or string could be utilized, and the Page 750 material "went further' than in crocheting or knitting. The lace was particularly dainty and exquisite, fulfilling a need for loveliness that must have gnawed incessantly at the pioneer mother's heart. Added to these advantages, the fragile-looking lace produced by netting is exceedingly tough and strong —curtains, bedspreads,. And_ tablecloths are practical. Bonnets, shawls, purses, and handkerchief edgings vie with doilies and place mats in beauty and utility. As the years passed, however, and pioneer stringencies gave way to an easier life, netting began to fall into disuse. A dozen years ago, it was practically extinct, not only in Utah, but in other parts of the world where it had once flourished. During World War II, England, which had always produced most of the netting needles, had no steel and no time to devote to the manufacture of anything so unnecessary. It became impossible to buy the meager equipment required. THEN, suddenly, the women of Utah rose up and demanded that some action be taken to preserve this ancient craft and to restore it to the popularity it deserves. The movement was _ probably sparked by the late "Aunt" 'Tina Macfarlane of St. George, Utah. "Aunt Tina" learned to net when she was five years old, and she continued to make netted lace until her death at ninety-one, some seven years ago. The articles she netted numbered well into the hundreds; she carried her work with her wher- NETTING TODAY Bill Shipler ever she went—on trains or buses, in the doctor's waiting room, at an afternoon gathering of friends. And wherever she went, her nimble fingers and her beautiful lace attracted attention. "How can we learn?" "Where can we learn?" was constantly asked. The queries were brought to the attention of the public, and the answer was almost immediate. Women 751 from many parts of Utah, as well as volunteers from other states, offered to teach the craft of netting. There was just one impediment: there was no equipment to be had. Now, the equipment for netting is very simple—a steel needle with an eye at each end, a mesh stick, and a knitting needle. But the needles were not being manufactured and 752 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1957 Bill Shipler could not be imported. It looked as if netting was doomed. To the rescue came a Salt Lake City man and woman—Frank Nelson said he would manufacture the equipment, and his wife, Vera, set to work to publish a manual giving explicit directions and many lovely patterns. A solution of the problem was in sight. During the past half-dozen years the Nelson's have distributed hundreds of the pamphlets, supplemented by special leaflets on particular subjects: Patterns for handkerchief edgings and doilies have been sent to all parts of the world with the netting kits Mr. Nelson manutfactures in Salt Lake City. These kits contain the netting needle, the mesh sticks of various widths to make Set be5' Pod ' ERE Re MON tad ey f ' s * x A ~ - — « > loops of different sizes, and instructions for the beginner. 'There is only one basic stitch to be learned, the intricate patterns being formed by the variety of groupings of this stitch, the differences in width of loops, and other variations. While Mr. Nelson still manufactures the mesh sticks and assembles the kits, world conditions have made it possible for him to import the famous English netting needles, which often come to Salt Lake City only to be shipped back to England with instructions for their use! There is no longer any danger, for the time being at any rate, of this ancient handwork dying out. And it is to the women of Utah that the credit is due. It was their interest and ingenuity that saved the craft from probable oblivion. > Sitneet in Rain Iris W. Schow The bright shop windows sheathed in rain Are parcels wrapped in cellophane. FROM THE FIEL mx General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents.