[Vol44 | November 1957 | Sequence: 08 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Crawford]
[Editorial: Gold, and Frankincense, and Myrrh Vesta P. Crawford]
Colts said softly, "over a year ago. It was hard." "I know," John said gently. "My Vera, too, three years ago." They looked at each other with warm compassion. Then John Roberts squared his shoulders. "If you'll allow me to come in," after thirty-five years, his eyes had the same _ twinkle, "you can find out what's really in that box." "Of course, John." Mrs. Colts stepped back apologetically. "My goodness, I'm so surprised I'm completely forgetting my manners. 733 Come in and take your coat off." "This is a pleasant room!" John exclaimed, looking around him at the book-lined shelves, the easy chairs, the open hearth, the warm lamplight. "Yes, it is," Mrs. Colts found herself agreeing heartily. It did seem to have a glow about it that she hadn't been aware of for a long time. "Now, perhaps we could build a little fire in the fireplace—the wood's right here in the basket," she told him gaily. "An excellent idea. That was a cold walk up from the depot," John said, smiling. "By the way," Mrs. Colts paused in the door, on her way to the kitchen, "you said you'd tell me what was in that box." John, already on his knees before the fireplace, looked back at her over his shoulder. "Peanut brittle," he said, grinning. "Remember when I was courting you, I used to bring you pounds of the stuff—couldn't afford chocolates." Mrs. Colts smiled mistily. "Yes, I remember," she said softly and started down the hall with a lighter step than had been heard in that house for many a day. A ett Definition Bessie I. Peterson The meaning of Thanksgiving? The fragrant, spicy scent of pumpkin pie, The burnished gloss of turkey bursting with complacent pride, The gleam of silver, gossamer the shine of candles Burning side by side on cherished linen, The time for fun and laughter, warmth of cozy fireside, The gratitude for peace expressed in quiet thanks to God— All this is Thanksgiving! Shopping Yesterday Elaine Reiser HE community general store in grandfather's day stood as a monument to a man's willingness to serve his community. As the village storekeeper, he invested his money in stocks of merchandise —dried fruits, nuts, cookies, buttons, parasols, moustache curlers, washboards, sunbonnets, and medicines —to have on hand for his faithful customers.