[Vol44 | November 1957 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Fiction | Title: Womans | Author: Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]
books  which  have  been  condemned 
as  indecent.  The  woman  said  thev 
choose  such  books  and  chat  about 
them  quite  cheerfullv.  Much  of  the 
reading  of  these  girls  is  found  be- 
t\vecn  covers  of  obscene  books  sold 
in  less  respectable  stores  to  satisfy* 
the  taste  of  curious  adolescents. 
Many  of  todav's  amusements  give 
e\idence  of  impurity-  in  its  most 
dangerous  form.  The  sanctity-  that 
once  shielded  the  marriage  relation 
and  the  shame  of  infideht\-  and 
adulter}-  seem  to  have  disappeared. 
Is  it  possible  that,  with  continuous 
thoughts  of  the  human  bodv.  and 
a  constant  obsession  with  sex,  that 
our  girls  can  go  into  womanhood  un- 
scarred  by  such  influences? 
The  writer  answered,  in  part,  that 
these  modem  girls,  clean  and  daint\' 
in  their  phvsical  life,  and  careful  of 
their  personal  appearance  and  their 
culture,  "batten  upon  the  filth  of 
dirt"'  bv  reading  novels  that  debase 
the  relationship  between  men  and 
women,  single  or  married.  She 
stated  that  if  their  mothers  saw 
them  bending  o\er  garbage  barrels, 
it  would  be  horrible  to  them,  but 
that  physical  dirtiness  is  far  less 
dangerous  to  fine  womanhood  than 
the  distorted  \iews  of  life  gained 
from  depra\ed  literature. 
Xot\\ith standing  the  report  that 
obscene  literature  has  been  cleaned 
up,  on  the  nineteenth  of  September 
195-.  J.  Edgar  Hoover  urged  that 
there  be  a  \^ar  \^aged  against  news- 
stands flooded  with  obscenities 
aimed  at  children  as  well  as  adults. 
Mr.  Hoover  said  that  the  trade  of 
'printed  poison"  is  a  big  and  lucra- 
ti\e  business.  "Not  until  longer 
sentences  and  hea\-ier  fines  remove 
the  financial  advantages  of  this  traf- 
fic will  the  producers,  distributors, 
and  dealers  of  filth  be  driven  out  of 
this  sickening  business.  The  activi- 
ties of  the  muck  merchants  are  na- 
tional in  scope  and  are  closely 
organized.  A  smut  dealer  can  pro- 
duce for  a  sm.all  initial  cost  obscene 
photographs  or  publications  which 
can  then  be  copied  by  the  thousands 
and  then  transmitted  on  an  almost 
endless  round  of  moral  destruction. 
Your  child  can  easily  become  one 
of  their  tragic  \ictims.  -\n  aroused 
public  is  necessar\- — one  that  will 
not  countenance  the  placing  of  this 
trash  on  public  displav." 
Emerson  said.  "'Be  sure  to  read 
no  mean  books"  (^meaning  books 
of  inferior  quality- "i.  "Consider  what 
you  have  in  the  smallest  chosen  H- 
brar\-.     A  companv  of  the  wisest,

718  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1957 
wittiest  men  that  could  be  picked  and  unsafe  freedoms  as  a  trend  of 
out  of  all  civil  countries  in  a  thou-  the  times. 
sand  years  have  set  in  best  order         After  deep  study  by  these  three 
the    results    of   their    learning   and  groups  of  these  nine  problems,  the 
wisdom.     Each  gives  up  his  grains  result   was   a   booklet    called    *'We 
of  gold  after  the  washing."  Can  Agree."    Every  family  has  one, 
Some    people    think    that    televi-  also  every  new  student.    Conditions 
sion's  educational  programs  are  an  are  improving  especially  in  the  area 
answer  to  the  mind  and  soul's  re-  of  appropriate  dress  and  party  hours, 
quirements  for  proper  training;  but  These   ideas   of   agreement   in   im- 
Frank  C.  Baxter,  Professor  of  Eng-  provement  of  the  young  are  now 
lish  Literature  at  the  University  of  spreading  to  other  states  and  the 
California,  at  Los  Angeles,  who  has  P.T.A.  is  becoming  interested.  May 
had   experience  on  some  of  those  these  ideas  be  adopted  by  the  whole 
educational  programs,  says  that  your  United  States  of  America  so  that 
T.V.  set  can  at  best  be  only  an  in-  our   morals   may  be  something  of 
vitation  to  knowledge.     One  can't  which  we  may  be  proud, 
possibly  grow   up   to   be   educated         These  movements  are  good,  but 
without  wide  reading.    He  said  that  there  is   nothing   so   efficacious  as 
the  spoken  word  and  the  animated  confidence  between  a  wise  mother 
figure   on    the    screen    are    fleeting  and  a  willing  -  to  -  listen  -  and  -  learn 
shadows  that  will   not  stay  to  be  sweet  young  girl.    Mother,  get  close 
mastered.     Sound  goes  in  one  ear  to  your  daughter.    Gain  her  confi- 
and  out  the  other.    Only  the  writ-  dence  so  that  she  will  have  a  desire 
ten  word  gives  students  the  solid  to  talk  to  you  after  the  show,  after 
background  that  underlines  all  real  the  dance,  after  the  ride.     A  few 
culture.  words  of  wisdom  on  such  occasions 
Besides  reading  low  books  that  in-  may  change  her  desires  to  read  the 
jure  our  young  people's  morals,  there  wrong  book,  to  associate  with  the 
are  other  problems  which  influence  wrong  boy,  to  make  the  wrong  mar- 
them  against  leading  a  clean  life,  riage. 
Three    groups    in    Philadelphia    in         Begin  very  early  with  your  little 
1951   decided  to  solve  those  prob-  girl  to  build  a  strong  character  that 
lems  before  they  had  a  good  start,  she  may  be  able  to  resist  uncleanli- 
These   groups    are:    First,    parents,  ness  whether  physical,   mental,   or 
Second,    students,   and    Third,  the  moral.  Then,  if  gentleness,  kindness, 
school  personnel.  love,  cleanliness,  and  morality  exist 
The  problems  are:  (1)  Unreason-  in  the  home,  she  can  look  upon  the 
able  late  hours,   (2)   drinking  alco-  wickedness  of  the  world  in  disdain 
holic  beverages,    (3)    abuse  of  car  and  disgust  at  the  low  thoughts  on 
privileges,    (4)   lack  of  parental  re-  the  screen  and  in  publications  and 
sponsibility  in  chaperoning  parties  they  will  influence  her  character  not 
in  the  homes,  ( 5 )  a  series  of  home  one  whit. 
parties  after  late  school  functions.         Teach  her  that  according  to  The 
(6)    party    crashing,    (7)    inappro-  Book  of  Mormon  '\  .  .  neither  can 
priate  dress,  (8)  a  general  disregard  filthiness  or  anything  which  is  un- 
for  the  rights  and  property  of  others,  clean  be  received  into  the  kingdom 
(9)    parental  acceptance   of  newer  of  God  .  .  ."  (Alma  7:21).

Obedience  In  All  Things 
Counselor  Helen  W.  Anderson 
JESUS  
said,  ''If  ye  love  me,  keep 
my  commandments.  ...  If  a 
man  love  me,  he  will  keep  my 
words:  and  my  Father  will  love  him, 
and  we  will  come  unto  him,  and 
make  our  abode  with  him"  (John 
14:15,23). 
Obedience  to  his  laws  and  com- 
mandments has  been  a  requirement 
of  the  Lord  ever  since  the  very  be- 
ginning. If  we  truly  love  him, 
obedience  to  his  laws  will  not  be  a 
difficult  requirement.  Great  and 
glorious  are  the  promises  made  to 
those  of  God's  children  who  are 
obedient  in  all  things. 
And  if  you  keep  my  commandments 
and  endure  to  the  end  you  shall  have 
eternal  life,  which  gift  is  the  greatest  of 
all  the  gifts  of  God  (D.  &  C.  14:7). 
The  rewards  of  those  who  are 
partially  obedient  to  the  law  as  com- 
pared with  the  majestic  rewards 
awaiting  those  who  are  fully  obedi- 
ent is  like  comparing  the  flicker  of 
the  early  day  movies  to  the  superb 
cinemascope  of  today. 
/.  The  gospel  provides  a  plan  of  life 
and  salvation  to  everyone  that  will 
render  obedience  to  it.  Every  law 
the  Lord  has  given  is  of  such  a  na- 
ture that  by  keeping  it  we  are  pre- 
served, protected,  or  blessed  in  some 
way. 
If  we  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
we  are  promised  that  we  shall  find 
"wisdom  and  great  treasures  of 
knowledge,  even  hidden  treasures; 
And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and 
shall  walk  and  not  faint.  And  .  .  . 
that  the  destroying  angel  shall  pass 
by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel, 
and    not    slay    them"     (D.    &    C. 
89:19-21). 
If  we  keep  the  law  of  tithing,  the 
Lord  will  ''open  .  .  .  the  windows 
of  heaven,  and  pour  you  out  a  bless- 
ing, that  there  shall  not  be  room 
enough  to  receive  it"  (Malachi 
3:10). 
If  we  abide  the  laws  of  the  land, 
we  are  protected  and  made  safe..,-^^- 
The  promise  is  made  that  Ameri- 
ca, a  land  choice  above  all  other 
lands,  will  be  a  land  of  liberty  and 
freedom  to  those  who  possess  it, 
if  they  will  but  obey  the  God  of 
the  land,  which  is  Jesus  Christ. 
The  universe  renders  obedience  to 
the  will  of  God. 
Obedience  is  required  of  all  the 
children  of  the  Lord.  Of  the  Savior 
himself  it  is  recorded,  "Though  he 
were  a  Son,  yet  learned  he  obedi- 
ence by  the  things  which  he  suf- 
fered; And  being  made  perfect,  he 
became  the  author  of  eternal  salva- 
tion unto  all  them  that  obey 
him..  ."  (Heb.  5:8,9). 
The  Master  concluded  his  most 
important  sermon  by  comparing  the 
faithful  doer  of  his  words,  "liken  .  .  . 
unto  a  wise  man,  which  built  his 
house  upon  a  rock"  (Mt.  7:24). 
We  are  taught  that  obedience  is 
the  first  law  of  heaven  and  order  is 
the  result.  Obedience  brings  re- 
ward; disobedience  brings  its  own 
punishment.  Adam  learned  and 
understood  the  principle  of  obedi- 
ence. He  was  commanded  to  build 
altars  upon  which  to  offer  sacrifices. 
Page  719
