[Vol44 | November 1957 | Sequence: 25 | Category: General Feature | Title: FEATURES | Author: Bowman]
[FEATURES FOR THE HOME Recipes From the Spanish-American Mission Nina N. Bowman]
man  can  be  facilitated  through  the  Our    physical    features    and    the 
family.     Acceptance  of  the  gospel  mental  capacity  with  which  we  are 
in  its  fulness  and  its  wise  applica-  endowed  are  determined  to  a  large 
tion  will  result  in  the  full  spiritual  extent   by   characteristics    inherited 
growth  and  development  of  the  in-  through  our  parents.    Much  of  our 
dividual.    A  person  reared  in  a  home  behavior,  likewise,  is  influenced  by 
where    gospel    principles    are    prac-  our    physical    and    mental    aspects, 
ticed,    adjusts    socially,    obtains    a  The  health  and   condition   of  our 
sense  of  personal  destiny,  a  thirst  bodies,  our  size,  color,  strength,  sex, 
for  knowledge,  and  the  courage  to  intelligence,  and  other  features  in- 
attempt    and    a    pride    in    achieve-  fluence  not  only  our  own  conduct 
ment.     The    love    and    democracy  but  the  response  of  others,  which, 
found  in  such  a  home  develop  self-  in  turn,  affects  us.  This  illustrates 
lessness,  the  ability  to  share,  and  a  the  complex  nature  of  human  be- 
desire  to  care.  havior. 
In  this  lesson  we  shall  consider  While  the  physical  man  is  im- 
the  effects  of  our  environment  upon  portant,  yet  the  fine  points  of  differ- 
us,  particularly  the  environment  of  ence  come  from  our  environment, 
the  home,  in  the  light  of  our  basic  The  world  about  us  is  a  part  of  us, 
needs.  The  following  lesson  will  for  it  influences  our  behavior  pat- 
demonstrate  the  personal  signifi-  terns.  The  family  circle,  our 
cance  of  the  family  to  each  age  friends,  our  teachers,  and  the  other 
group  and  how  their  needs  are  met  people  with  whom  we  come  in  con- 
through  the  family.  tact;  where  we  live,  what  is  said  and 
written    and    taught,    all    influence 
What  We  Are  what  we  are.     World  events,   the 
Each   man   is  an   individual,  the  kind   of   community   in   which   we 
product  of  a  myriad  of  varied  influ-  live,  our  government,  our  income, 
Page  773

774  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1957 
what  we  have— all  produce  satisfac-  when   given   such  a  choice,  would 
tion  or  anxiety,  in  varying  degrees,  readily  take  the  dime.     The  differ- 
which  color  our  actions.  ence    lies    in    the    background    of 
That  part  of  our  environment  knowledge  upon  which  the  child 
having  the  greatest  influence  is  the  calls  in  making  his  decision, 
home.  It  is  in  the  home  that  per-  Acquisition  of  knowledge  is  not 
sonality  characteristics  are  indelibly  enough.  It  must  be  evaluated  as 
stamped;  it  is  there  that  the  most  acquired.  How  we  evaluate  de- 
good  or  harm  can  be  done.  The  pends,  again,  upon  our  atmosphere 
way  a  person  feeJs  largely  influences  of  people  and  ideas.  The  ability 
how  he  thinks  and  acts.  The  inter-  to  decide  properly  is  the  power  by 
personal  relationships  with  family  which  we  grow  and  develop, 
members  largely  determine  how  we  When  our  storehouse  of  knowl- 
feel  about  people  and  things.  Our  edge  is  sound  and  when  we  have 
feelings  tend  to  make  us  do  that  learned  properly  to  evaluate  that 
which  to  us  is  pleasant,  satisfying,  knowledge,  we  then  are  in  a  posi- 
comfortable,  and  safe,  and  also  tend  tion  to  make  ''decisions  of  charac- 
to  make  us  avoid  the  opposite.  The  ter"  which  can  raise  us  to  the  great- 
deep  grooves  of  habit  and  attitude,  est  heights.  Fortunately,  man  can 
acquired  through  often-encountered  carve  his  own  destiny.  He  can  con- 
situations  and  our  reactions  to  them,  trol  his  own  environment,  at  least 
are,  in  fact,  a  part  of  us.  in   part,  and  with  this  control  he 
Parents  have  the  responsibility  to  can  make  a  success  or  failure  of  his 
teach  basic  virtues.  (See  Lesson  8.)  life.    By  his  ingenuity  he  can  enlist 
Each  President  of  the  Church  has  the  help  of  other  persons,  and  if  he 
taught  the  importance  and   neces-  lives  for  it,  he  is  aided  by  the  Holy 
sity  of  the  individual  gaining  knowl-  Ghost   and    our   Heavenly    Father. 
edge.     'The  glory  of  God  is  intel-  (See  Lesson  8.) 
licence"  has  been  embedded  in  the  ^      r>    •    xt     j 
1  ^    ^    f            T    . ,      1      c  •  4.  T-i,  ^ur  Basic  ISeeds 
heart  of  every  Latter-day  bamt.  1  he  r^^              .            j  j    •         r    n 
T^      1    ^  T        1    c     1.1            1  •       i.  I  he  yearnmgs  and  desires  ot  all 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  speaking  to  r  n  •  ?      •     i         i. 
^1    ^   .  ^''  .    \i      ^           1.  XT  persons  fall  into  similar  categories. 
the  saints  in  the  Grove  at  Nauvoo,  Vt        i.i_              j                i.       j 
1           n   u  K            •           J        c    .  How  these  needs  are  met  and  our 
observed,    A  man  is  saved  no  taster  ^       ..    m                t,       i 
.,       1      '       1         11           yy  /T\  Tj  reaction  to  them  somehow  leave  an 
than  he  gets  knowledge  .  .  .    (U.  H.  .        .   .                      -u  u     -         t   j- 
^    TTr    oo\       T^        1  J         £  imprint  upon  our  behavior.     Indi- 
C.   IV:q88).     Knowledge  of  every  . /,        ^            i.    j-  -j  j  u      j 
^    /   .    1                 1     r        J  vidual  needs  may  be  divided  broad- 
nature,  technical  or  general,  ot  good  i    •   .     .i            J 
.^      r           1              •     •  1  ly  into  three  categories: 
or  evil,  of  people  or  principles  or  ^                          ^ 
things,    is    an    important,    integral  (i)    Physiological  needs,  that  is,  those 
part    of    the    individual,    for   this    is  relating   to   a   healthy  functioning  of  our 
his  source  of  reference  in  decision  bodies; 
making.     To    illustrate,    the    child  {'-,   ^^',  "^.^^,  '^  §^«^  intellectually, 
&•      .                          '                  .  socially,  and  spiritually; 
whose  basic  knowledge   concerning  (^^  ^he  need  to  love  and  to  be  loved. 
coins  is  hmited  to  identification  by 
name,  when  offered  his  choice  of  a  i.  Physiological  Needs:     One  of 
nickel    or    a    dime,    would    likely  the    strongest    human    impulses    is 
choose  the  nickel.    A  child  having  man's  desire  to  survive.  This  desire 
knowledge  of  the  value  of  money,  prompts  him  to  seek  food,  clothing,

LESSON  DEPARTMENT  775 
and  shelter.  How  these  needs  are  reassuring  encouragement  to  persist 
met,  even  from  the  first  days  of  hfe,  in  seeking  knowledge, 
influences  the  course  of  life.  That  is  b.  Growing  Socially:  The  eager- 
to  say,  if  our  experiences  in  meet-  ness  with  which  we  pursue  social 
ing  these  needs  are  pleasant,  we  acceptance  illustrates  the  magnitude 
react  pleasantly  and  favorably;  while  of  this  basic  need.  Our  adventure 
stress  and  anxiety  in  the  process  through  life,  in  relation  to  our  fam- 
leave  a  negative  mark  upon  the  ac-  ily  and  home,  spans  the  extremes 
tions  of  man.  Some  of  us  need  from  infancy  and  complete  depend- 
specialized  attention  to  preserve  and  ence  upon  the  home  to  becoming 
prolong  our  lives.  Good  physical  an  adult  and  relatively  independent, 
health  is  an  important  ingredient  Maturity  is  arriving  at  a  healthy 
to  good  mental  health.  While  compromise  between  these  ex- 
physiological  needs  are  important,  tremes.  As  we  venture  forth  from 
and  while  a  minimum  must  be  met  our  homes,  figuratively  speaking,  we 
for  the  continuance  of  life  itself,  go  forth  with  confidence,  if  we  know 
yet  lavish  or  quantitative  ''trim-  we  can  always  return  to  a  home 
mings"  are  unnecessary  to  produce  where  there  is  love  and  security, 
a  Lincoln.  More  often  than  not  This  is  true  of  all  family  members 
extravagance  proves  to  be  a  disad-  from  the  youngest  to  the  oldest, 
vantage  to  the  individual.  Our  social  ambitions  are  met  when 
we  have  status  with  our  associates, 
2.  The  Need  to  Grow:  Most  in-  ^  ^^nse  of  being  a   person  whose 
dividuals  are  possessed  of  a  desire  ^°f*    '^ ,  
recognized,    and   a    self- 
to  achieve  intellectually;  all  desire  ^s^^em  which  enables  us  to  meet 
to  be  socially  accepted,  and  many  situations    appropriately    according 
recognize    the    need    for    spiritual  *°  °"''  ^^'^  .^"'^  '^''-     ,     ^,         .  . 
growth.  Latter-day  Saints  know  this  ,     ^-  Spintual  Growth:  The  spirit 
to  be  the  purpose  of  mortality.  °f  "^3"  ^^^s  an  innate  eagerness  to 
return  to  God.  When  properly 
a.  Growing  Intellectually:  Man's  stimulated,  he  pursues  knowledge  of 
hankering  for  accomplishment  has  God  and  his  ways.  He  receives 
brought  forth  principles  and  truths  satisfaction  from  embracing  charac- 
which  have  revolutionized  our  daily  teristics  and  principles  taught  in  the 
lives.  Scientific  discoveries  and  scriptures.  He  has  a  sense  of  per- 
their  applications  have  given  us  sonal  accomplishment  which  pushes 
conveniences  unheard  of  a  few  years  him  ahead  to  seek  his  Heavenly 
ago.  The  fight  against  disease  and  Father  further.  Spiritual  growth 
illness  has  made  tremendous  gains,  does  not  come  automatically,  how- 
Man's  creative  ability  has  produced  ever.  Devotion  and  effort  are  re- 
pleasant  and  interesting  things  rang-  quired  here  as  in  other  fields.  Faith, 
ing  from  hieroglyphics  to  modern  together  with  applied  effort,  results 
skyscrapers,  music,  sculpture,  paint-  in  spiritual  growth.  Parents  can  in- 
ing,  and  all  the  discoveries  of  fluence  the  spiritual  growth  of  their 
science.  For  proper  intellectual  de-  children  by  how  they  think  and 
velopment  each  person  needs  act.  Family  prayer,  devotion  to 
opportunity    to    learn,    along   with  Church  duties,  the  parents'  favor-