[Vol44 | November 1957 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Fiction | Title: Work | Author: Edwards]
[Work Meeting: The Family' and the Home William F Edwards]
ports: "The  visiting  teachers  are  doing  a  great  work  in  the  Columbia  area.  We  are 
very  proud  of  their  efforts.  A  wonderful  spirit  was  enjoyed  in  our  convention,  and 
each  member  has  a  great  love  for  the  program." 
Photograph  submitted  b>  Al'.a  ruliriman 
NAMPA  STAKE   (IDAHO)   FORMER  STAKE  BOARD  MEMBERS  HONORED 
AT  UNION  MEETING,  April  28,  1957 
Front  row,  standing,  at  the  left,  left  to  right:  Manilla  Dowdle;  Myrtle  Leavitt; 
Clarissa  Ashlock;  Marcelline  Garner. 
Front  row,  standing  at  the  right,  left  to  right:  Dorene  Dike;  Louise  Tobler;  Gayle 
Hales,  present  literature  class  leader;  Lillian  Aldous. 
Second  row,  standing,  at  left,  left  to  right:  Ruth  Holland;  Lilly  Loveland;  Vilate 
Crane;  Ethelyn  Russell;  Lucille  Butler. 
Second  row,  standing  at  the  right,  left  to  right:  Lucile  Rawlins;  Lorraine  Wigand; 
Gertrude  McKnight;  Melva  McClellan. 
Back  row,  standing,  at  the  left,  left  to  right:  Sarah  Squires;  Helena  Richards;  Lela 
Thueson;  Myrle  Dowdle;  Gladys  Squires;  Blanche  Murphy,  Margaret  Rose. 
Back  row,  standing,  at  the  right,  left  to  right:  Frieda  Winslow;  Anna  Babcock; 
Afton  Blanc;  Lilly  Logan;  Nina  Burch;  Luzean  Yorgason. 
Standing,  back  of  the  pulpit,  center,  left  to  right:  Isabelle  Svedin;  Dorothy  Swen- 
son;  Bishop  Joseph  McKnight,  former  high  council  advisor  to  Relief  Society;  Estella 
Day;  Clara  Mason,  a  former  ReHef  Society  President. 
Alta  Fuhriman,  President,  Nampa  Stake  Relief  Society,  reports:  "Since  the  pub- 
lication of  the  booklet  containing  our  Stake  Relief  Society  history  and  entries  from  our 
short  story  and  poem  contest  were  to  be  delivered  to  the  wards  at  our  union  meeting, 
we  thought  it  timely  to  honor  all  former  stake  board  members.  We  were  sorry  only 
one  former  stake  president  was  able  to  attend.  All  of  the  women  in  the  picture  re- 
side in  the  Boise  Valley  area,  except  Freida  Winslow,  a  former  stake  counselor,  who 
flew  from  Ogden,  Utah,  to  attend.  Corsages  and  a  boutonniere  were  tinted  in  the 
Relief  Society  colors  and  presented  to  each  honored  guest,  and  a  copy  of  the  booklet 
was  given  or  sent  to  each  former  stake  president."