[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | September | Issue: 6 | Title: MARRY. | Author: C. C. R. W]

MARRY.

	SOME thoughts have been suggested to
my mind through reading an article upon
this subject in the May 15th Number of the
Juvenile Instructor, which was written by
the Editor of that valuable magazine. The
result of a conversation with "a young man
of good education, and of an old American
family, who from his position had access to
the best society."
	This young man in conversing upon the
subject which I take for my text, stated it
something after this fashion. "My friends"
he said, "are wealthy, I am welcome to
their houses, I see the luxury with which
they are surrounded and to which their
daughters are accustomed; and however
strongly I might be inclined to marry, my
respect for these young ladies is such that I
have not dared to ask one of them to share
my lot and be my wife. My circumstances
are such that I could not furnish them with
that style of living. I do not want to ask
a girl to step down and occupy an inferior
position. Besides by marrying I would de-
prive myself of advantages, which as a
single man I now enjoy. These considera-
tions restrain me from marrying, and they
restrain many more of my acquaintances."
	The Italics are mine. I like the refresh-
ing candor of this young man upon one
point viz. "that by marrying he would de-
prive himself of advantages which he now
enjoys," and it is my opinion that this is
the main spring, which moves the whole
man-marrying-machinery.
	The Editor further says, "In Utah we
are beginning to experience the same influ-
ences that have operated to bring marriage
into disfavor elsewhere. In view of these
things parents cannot be too careful in
training their daughters, so that they have
correct feelings upon this subject."
	Concerning the condition of affairs in

[Column 2]

Utah, I fully agree with our beloved
brother. Concerning the advice to parents
about the training of their daughters, I feel
sure that he will pardon me when I say,
that according to my views, he might with
great propriety have added and their sons.
	That a spirit of extravagance is rife in
our midst I am only too painfully sensible
of! My heart aches, and so I am sure do
those of many other mothers, who see their
children partaking of the spirit of the world
that has come amongst us, which fosters
extravagance, by which means class dis-
tinctions are brought about, and the pass-
port to "good society" would to a sensible,
deep-thinking observer, seem to consist in
the disposition and ability, to spend for
their own self indulgence, the means which
their fathers and mothers have toiled hard
in their younger days to accumulate in
order to have something laid by for old age
and possible infirmity, in the accumulation
of which, they have probably denied them-
selves of every luxury and possibly the
comforts of life.
	And what is "good society" according to
the general acceptation of the term in our
day?
	Well opinions differ upon this point as
well as upon all others, what goes by that
name, by some, might be termed merely
fashionable society. And while one hold-
ing that opinion might be thought by some
not competent to judge, by another equally
as intelligent they might be thought to be
the very best authority, and so it goes, each
judging from his or her own standpoint to
which they have a perfect right.
	For instance, one set of people endowed
with the gifts of wisdom and knowledge,
industry and economy, of truth and virtue,
charity and benevolence, of temperance,
honesty and integrity, and all the refining
elements, which go to make up a noble
character, might consider that a class of
people possessing these qualities might be
called "good society."
	While yet another set, who devotes its
time to a study of the fashion plates, attend-
ing operas, balls, excursions, promenades,
and amusements of any and every kind in
and out of season, willing and seemingly
determined, to spend the means which
others have earned, scorning to perform the
like labors by which others have earned it,
drinking gambling, debauching, leading the
innocent and unwary astray, might consider
that such only could claim the title of "good
society."
	So each class may set up a standard for
itself, and by its influence draw those to
them who are congenial, but it will be like
a pebble cast into a body of water, which
forms its own circle, but whose extent is
limited, another, cast in the same silent
stream, makes a separate one just as dis-
tinct. While wealth is a mighty factor in
moving the machinery, which carries on
the affairs of this world, I think it is very
much over-estimated as a means of bringing
about happiness.
	This representative "young man" whom
we have been quoting, confesses that by
marrying, he would deprive himself of
many of the advantages which he now en-
joys.
	As I before said, I believe this to be the
main spring of the situation! Let us look
a little more closely into the evidence before
us. For whom does the average young lady
dress, and adorn her person, if it is not for
this same young man? does he not generally
seek for the most fashionably dressed young

[Column 3]

lady at the balls, picnics, etc. Does he not
by his own admission, "visit at the houses
of the rich and fashionable," thereby giving
the impression that, that is what suits him?
also giving the young ladies whom he visits
reason to think that it is "their sweet society"
which he craves, and what more natural
than for them to imagine him to be in love,
and that he wishes to secure love in return
for all time. Are they not justified in
thinking, that if he prefered another's
society than their own, he would seek it?
	As custom, controls in these matters, and
men are free to seek whom they will,
would it not be easy for a man who oc-
cupies a position yeilding only a moderate
salary, to find among the many overworked
women of his world, one whom he could
love for her good qualities, and perhaps
equally as pretty face, fine talents, aud en-
gaging manners as her more fortunate
sister under cultivation, (which he might
be the means of assisting, when she became
his wife) that the world might be better for
his having lived in it.
	When a man confesses, that he dilly
dally's around the rich and fashionable who
would not make him welcome, if he were
not their equal in fortune, he confesses to
about the same kind of a weakness, which
a girl displays when she indulges in ex-
travagance in order to catch him, only to
find that she is blamed for his disinclination
to marry on account of her extravagance.
I am of the opinion that the stock repre-
sented by the aforementioned "young man"
may as well be allowed to run out. There
is already too many of him; and marriages
entered into with such men, generally end
in the Divorce Court.
	But to come to our own children. If
they could be converted to the Gospel, they
would marry.
	Marriage is an institution of so sacred a
nature that it should not be lightly entered
into, and unless young people view it also
in that light, it had better not be under-
taken. It seems to me that the most fre-
quent cause of divorce, lies in the careless-
ness with which people now-a-days enter
into the matrimonial state, either on the
part of one, or both, of the contracting
parties. If a man looks upon marriage as
a divine command, he will be looking for a
whole-souled woman to link her destiny
with his, and if he is worthy of that kind of
a woman he will be preparing to take care
of her and her children.
	But if he is like a great many of the
young men among us today, our sons, who
cannot keep out of debt on a steady salary
of $2.00 per day with no one but them-
selves to keep, a young lady would display
a great deal of courage (my first thought
but I think recklessness a more suitable
term) to join forces with and attempt to
bear and rear a family by such a man, even
if she should get the chance.
	How many of our young ladies today are
working in factories, in families, in stores,
in schools, in dressmaking and millinery
stores, in printing offices, in lawyers offices,
house cleaning, washing and ironing, hair-
dressing, as telephone and telegraph operat-
ers, typewriters, nurses, doctors, lawyers,
and in numerous ways earning their living,
and bid fair from all appearance, to go to their
graves unwed, while the young man with
nearly always a salary double the size of
theirs; and if he is in some professions, three
or four times as large, cannot keep out of
debt and afford to marry.
	As I said before, when our young people


[column 1]
﻿receive the Gospel, they will marry! When
they have learned that in this, the most
important event of their lives they require
the light of the Holy Spirit to guide them,
and humbly come before our Father, will-
ing to be guided, realizing that unions here
should reach into eternity, and proving
their faith by their works, there will no
worldly considerations enter into their cal-
culations upon this subject. But! what is
the mind and will of the Lord? Father
guide me to the one, with whom I can
journey in unity and love, through time
and all eternity.
	Why should people marry, unless they
marry in this spirit? To multiply their
species? To what end? That their offspring
may be destroyed when ripe in iniquity?
When "the sins of the fathers shall be
visited upon the children to the third and
fourth generation?” For has not God re-
vealed in this day and age in which we live,
that he will utterly destroy from off this
land, those who will not serve him and
keep his commandments?
	Our beloved brother further says: “Al-
ready some mothers are indulging in the
fear, and almost seem ready to justify them-
selves in the thought, that if their girls
marry they must go outside of the Church
to find husbands.’’
	“The indulgence in such a thought pre-
pares the way for such a result to be brought
about.”
	My opinion upon this point is, that no
girl who is a Latter-day Saint at heart, and
realizes the position in which she stands,
can for one moment entertain such an idea
as giving herself in marriage to a Gentile!
Indeed it would manifest a weakness, and
a lack of moral courage, which any well-
balanced, Latter-day Saint young lady
would be ashamed of. For if she had any
leaning that way, she would not dare, if
she understood things correctly, descend
from her high position as a Saint of the
most high God, to unite herself with one
who ignores Him! though millions were the
tempting bait.
	My opinion differs considerably from the
young man whom I have before quoted:
“who could not ask a girl to step down and
occupy an inferior position.’’ I think that
though a girl be accustomed to all the luxur-
es which wealth can procure,that when she
is united to a good and noble man, though
he be poor, she is exalted thereby, to an
extent to which she never can attain alone,
then how much more is she raised in the
scale of exaltation by becoming united to
one endowed with the Holy Priesthood;
with its wondrous powers and privileges
which she shares in connection with him.
She steps up from the groveling things of
this earth, and grasps the wealth of the
Gods! Gold is the power of this world.
The Priesthood is the power by which
worlds were formed and created, we have
it; and are the richest people upon the face
of the earth, though we were clothed in
rags! Now as to the mothers who “almost
seem ready to justify themselves in the
thought, that if their girls marry they must
go outside of the Church to find husbands.”
What a sacrifice they are willing to make!
When they left home, father, mother, all
their kindred in many instances; the graves
of their ancestors, and all they held dear in
this world, for the Gospel’s sake and the
hope of eternal life which it held out to
them in that hour, what would they have
said to one who would have tempted them
to have given up their principles for wealth
[column 2]
with a man of the world attached? has the
glitter of gold so blinded them that they
have lost sight of the greater riches of
eternity, if so, then no wonder that their
daughters wander away. If our children
are self-willed and will not be controlled
and we do our duty by them by precept and
example, then our skirts are clear of their
blood; but woe unto us as parents if we do
not our duty; we may revel in luxury, and
pass the time away in idle frivolity and in
pandering to the ways of the world, but the
day of reckoning will come, and God will
require of us the jewels committed to our
care, and woe unto us if we have betrayed
the trust.
	I will close my article with a few words
to the daughters of Zion. Preserve your-
selves in purity from the contaminating in-
fluences of the world, and above all, as I
said in an article which I wrote upon the
subject some years ago, and which I now
reiterate, “make yourselves worthy of the
best and noblest of men and resolve to ac-
cept no other’’ no matter what his social or
financial condition in life, favorable or
otherwise, they will only endure for time,
but see that he possesses those qualities that
will elevate him to the position of an exal-
tation in the celestial kingdom,and you cul-
tivate those qualities that will exalt you to
a place by his side, then you will have
taken a step toward the high destiny to
which you are entitled by being born in
Zion,in the New and Everlasting Covenant
of the Gospel, and if in the providence of
God our Heavenly Father, you may have
to wash for a living, be sure it will not de-
grade you! honest labor can never do that.
What wealth could our elder brother boast
of while he sojourned here upon the earth?
Did He not say, “The foxes have holes, the
birds of the air have nests, but the Son of
Man hath not where to lay his head,” and
are we better than He?
	We have to be tried in all things, that we
may know for ourselves the bitter as well
as the sweet, and hold all things at their
true value; then let us labor to “lay up
treasures in heaven, where moth and rust
doth not corrupt, nor thieves break through
and steal,” that when we shall come into
our inheritance, it may be an everlatsing
one, and we shall know that we have
earned it.
					C. C. R. W.
Salt Lake City, May 20, 1892.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


