[Vol34 | March 1947 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Poem | Title: Patterned the]
cyhtrd  Lrrtze  Store/ 
J/lnnual  LKelief  Society  Snort  Story   (contest 
The  Sound  of  Bugles 
Olive  Maiben  Nicholes 
EMILY  Grafton  sagged  against 
the  kitchen  sink  and  watched 
for  the  coming  day.  She  had 
been  up  since  three  o'clock,  and 
half  awake  hours  before  that.  The 
long  night  had  gnawed  through  her 
resistance  and  dulled  the  edge  of  her 
sturdy  self-reliance.  If  the  sun 
would  shine  again,  she  could  collect 
her  scattered  wits  and  meet  the  ex- 
actions of  another  day. 
She  had  been  awakened  at  mid- 
night with  the  shutters  banging,  and 
a  new  warmth  in  the  air.  Stars,  pierc- 
ing the  windy  tangle  of  branches, 
had  reassured  her;  and  she  had  crept 
back  to  bed,  only  to  be  startled,  lat- 
er, with  the  rain  beating  in  upon  her 
face.  With  a  lantern  in  one  hand 
and  a  collection  of  buckets  and  pans 
in  the  other,  she  had  negotiated  the 
attic  stairs  to  find  pools  of  water 
already  forming  on  the  floor.  It  had 
been  worse  than  she  had  guessed; 
the  roof  was  a  veritable  sieve!  There 
had  been  repeated  trips  to  the  pan- 
try for  utensils,  before  she  had  fore- 
stalled the  flood  that  threatened  the 
rooms  below. 
Her  eyes  strained  through  the 
darkness.  Heavy  silence  hung  over 
the  sleeping  town.  A  pale  moon 
nuzzled  the  clouds,  breaking  up  be- 
fore the  decreasing  tempo  of  the 
storm.  The  stars  paled  and  faded, 
as  a  watery  sun  dripped  through  the 
mist,  and  blurred  shadows  sprawled 
across  the  familiar  dooryard. 
Page  156 
OLIVE  MAIBEN  NICHOLES 
Stale,  soot-embroidered  snow  was 
melting  under  the  orchard  trees, 
dripping  on  untidy  windrows  of  old 
leaves  and  twigs  rotting  together. 
The  lawn  was  a  tangled  snarl  of  sod, 
where  a  dozen  venturesome  cro- 
cuses bubbled  in  the  rank  grass.  A 
welter  of  old  magazines,  in  the  shel- 
tered doorway  of  the  deserted  car- 
riage house,  thumbed  their  tattered 
pages  in  the  wind.  A  few  bedraggled 
hens,  tails  aslant  in  the  stiff  breeze, 
pecked  dejectedly  in  the  ragged 
garden,  where  battalions  of  weeds 
were  already  piercing  the  depleted 
soil. 
"Well,  the  backbone  of  the  win-

THE  SOUND  OF  BUGLES  157 
ter's  broken,  and  so  will  mine  be  by  to  give  a  rap  how  soon  she  followed, 
the  time  I  empty  all  that  water.  It's  This  is  what  the  oldest  sister  got, 
due  foi  a  freeze  tonight,  so  I'd  bet-  who  stayed  on  to  raise  a  thankless 
ter  get  a  move  on,  if  I  don't  want  to  brood  after  the  mother  died!     She 
hack  it  out  with  the  axe.     Wish  I  wiped  her  eyes  on  the  hem  of  her 
could  hire  a  man  to  clean  up  all  this  soggy  apron,  and  began  to  climb  the 
rubbish."  stairs. 
She  sighed,  remembering  the  un-  And  so  it  was,  as  she  poured  the 
kept  land  of  the  past  three  years.  No  last  pan  of  water  into  the  shrubbery 
use  crying  for  the  moon!  She  would  below,  that  she  saw  the  boy  leaning 
clean  up  the  attic,  and  plan  later,  on  the  gate. 
Maybe  another  trip  to  the  employ-  He  stood  looking  over  the  win- 
ment  bureau  would  turn  up  a  work-  ter's  wreckage  with  an  interest  akin 
er  with  a  strong  back  and  a  willing  to  solicitude.    His  eyes  swept  over 
heart,  though  last  time  the  agent  had  the  shrubbery  and  up  the  gray  stone 
no  one,  not  even  a  promise  of  one,  walls,  until  she  looked  down  into 
on  his  hopeless   list.     Unless    the  his    upturned    face,    and    the    full 
farm  began  to  pay,  she  would  have  scrutiny  of  his  searching  eyes.    For 
to  draw  more  money  from  the  bank,  a  brief  moment,    old   recollections 
and  put  it  out  at  better  interest.  knocked  at  the  door  of  bygone  days, 
and  she  thought  he  was  someone 
A  GAIN,  she  remembered  with  bit-  she  knew  from  a  neighboring  farm, 
terness  the  young  brother  who  The  thought  was  as  quickly  erased 
packed  his  palette  and  brushes  near-  when  he  brought  up  his  hand,  in  a 
ly    thirty  years  before,   who,  deaf,  mock  salute,  and  she  saw  the  glitter 
alike  to  her  entreaties  and  threats,  of  a  discharge  button  in  the  lapel  of 
had  turned  his  back  upon  the  farm  his  leather  jacket, 
and  gone  away.    The  older  boys  had  There  was  nothing  to  do  but  go 
already  married  and  settled  far  to  down.  Perhaps  the  agency  had  found 
the  north  or  to  the  south,  on  farms  a  man  for  her,  although  she  was  re- 
of  their  own.    The  young  sisters  had  luctant  to  hire  one  so  young.  Noth- 
departed,  one  by  one,  until  she  had  ing  but  fishing  and  hunting  and  girls 
been  left  alone  with  the  aging  hus-  cluttered    up    the    minds    of    the 
band  who  hadn't  been  the  asset  she  young  from  daylight  till  dark! 
had  thought  he'd  be.     Ten  years,  She  opened    the  side  door   and 
now,  since  he  had  died,  with  no  one  watched  him  hum-  up  the  path,  as 
Olive  Maiben  Nicholes  was  born  in  the  old  Provo,  Utah,  Fourth  Ward,  a 
daughter  of  the  late  Henry  J.  and  Louisa  Harrison  Maiben.  She  is  the  wife 
of  Joseph  K.  Nicholes,  member  of  the  Sunday  School  General  Board  and 
Brigham  Young  University  faculty.  They  have  nine  children  and  ten  grand- 
children. Two  sons,  a  daughter,  three  sons-in-law,  and  their  collie  dog  served 
in  World  War  II. 
Mrs.  Nicholes  has  had  stories  and  poems  published  in  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine,  The  Improvement  Era,  The  Deseret  News,  The  Salt  Lake  Tribune, 
Poetry  Digest,  of  New  York  City,  and  Volume  II  of  Utah  Sings.  A  volume 
of  stories — The  Singing  Desert — is  in  preparation  for  publication.

158 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— MARCH    1947 
though  he  couldn't  wait  to  see  inside 
the  house.  He  seemed  larger  and 
stronger,  at  closer  view,  and  more 
capable  than  she  had,  at  first, 
thought. 
"Looks  like  you  need  a  hand  with 
the  farm,"  he  ventured,  stepping 
over  the  sill. 
"It's  worse  than  it  looks,"  she 
apologized,  as  she  motioned  him  in- 
to a  chair.  "Father  named  it  'Brad- 
ford Heights/  The  Depths'  would 
be  a  more  fittin'  name." 
The  room  needed  no  apology.  It 
was  as  clean  as  soap  and  water  could 
make  it;  but  she  felt  an  increasing 
chagrin  at  her  own  disheveled  ap- 
pearance. She  was  angry,  too,  that 
she  should  feel  so.  Visitors  usually 
looked  away  from  her,  but  this  one's 
eyes  were  candid  and  fearless,  and 
never  wavered  from  her  own.  Again, 
that  odd  feeling  of  familiarity  swept 
over  her,  and  she  began  plying  him 
with  questions. 
No,  the  Bureau  hadn't  sent  him. 
Yes,  he  was  just  out  of  the  service. 
Spent  the  winter  quarter  studying 
soils  at  the  college.  Couldn't  stay 
cooped  up,  now  spring  was  break- 
ing. He  was  past  twenty-seven.  His 
name  was  Karl— Karl  Goodman.  No, 
he  wasn't  a  farmer,  but  he  loved  the 
land.  Had  a  "green  thumb!"  He 
held  up  his  hand,  with  a  grin,  and 
she  saw  it  was  broad  and  firmly  tex- 
tured, with  long,  strong  fingers  and 
a  tapering  thumb  that  sprang  away 
from  the  palm,  as  did  her  own.  She 
had  inherited  hers  from  her  mother, 
who  had  boasted  it  "ran  in  her  fam- 
ily," and  that  its  possessor  could 
make  two  blades  of  grass  grow 
where  one  had  grown  before. 
He  turned  on  his  own  battery  of 
questions,  much  to  her  surprise. 
Of  course  the  land'  was  run  down! 
What  could  one  expect,  with  the 
war  on  and  hired  help  selling  them- 
selves for  baubles?  No,  she  didn't 
have  children;  she'd  raised  her  moth- 
er's family.  The  youngest  brother 
had  left  home  right  after  his  father's 
death,  married  a  girl  she  didn't 
know;  sold  his  birthright  for  nothing! 
Worse  than  Esau,  she'd  say.  Hei 
tight  lips  expressed  better  than 
words  just  what  she  thought  of  men 
like  Esau. 
A  tramp  through  the  orchard  and 
along  muddy  ditch  banks  had 
not  discouraged  him.  She  would  have 
turned  away  from  the  clay  slope  that 
had  so  persistently  evaded  cultiva- 
tion, but  he  had  been  keenly  inter- 
ested, and  had  picked  up  a  ball  of 
earth  to  knead  between  his  fingers 
and  thumb. 
In  the  end,  he  decided  to  stay  for 
less  than  she  had  promised  the  agent. 
He  was  to  have  a  room,  and  board 
with  her,  although  the  latter  offer 
had  surprised  her  more  than  it  had 
him.  She  left  him  to  prepare  a  sub- 
stantial morning  meal  while  he  re- 
trieved his  luggage  from  the  lane,