[Vol34 | March 1947 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Elder Charles Nibley]

Elder Charles A. Callis Preston Nibley OR almost ten years I enjoyed an intimate personal acquaintanceship with Elder Charles A. Callis.
During the past five years we have lived under the same roof, at the Belvedere Apartment, in Salt Lake City, and I have seen him and visited with him two or three times each week. It was his custom to walk out in the evening, for relaxation and exercise, and on these occasions he invited me to accompany him. In his death I have suffered the loss of a true friend and a most agreeable and pleasant companion. If the life of Elder Charles A.
Callis were written, it would.
Read like a romance. He was born under poor circumstances, at Dublin, Ireland, on May Callis and Susannah Charlotte Quilliam. His father died when the boy was a child, and the responsibility of rearing a family was left to the widowed mother. In order to better her circumstances, she moved to Liverpool, England. It was there, a short time later, that she heard the gospel and joined the Church.
Charles was baptized at Liverpool when he was eight years old. Two years later the family emigrated and moved to Bountiful. Later, they acquired property in Coalville, Summit County, and there young Charles grew to manhood.
While he worked in a coal mine to support his widowed mother, he also read books and acquired a knowledge of law. He was admitted to the bar, and served as city attorney of Coalville and county attorney of Summit County. 4, 1865, the son of John: ELDER CHARLES A. CALLIS In 1902, when he was thirty-seven years old, Charles A.
Callis was married to Grace Pack, daughter of Ward E.
Pack of Coalville. In 1906 they went on a mission together to the Southern States. Two years later he was made president of the mission and, together, they served for twenty five years, until Elder Callis was called to be an apostle in October 1933.
Brother and Sister Callis were the parents of eight children, six of whom, five daughters and one son, are now living. In the organization of the first stake in the Southern States he realized the ambition of a lifetime. He had finished his work. He passed away without illness, among the saints of the Southland, where he and his beloved wife had labored so faithfully and so long. Page 155