[Vol34 | March 1947 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Womans Cannon]

Woman’s Sphere Ramona W. Cannon TT\EATH has recently claimed three noble women: Mrs. Alice Kimball Smith, faithful wife and widow of former President Joseph F. Smith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; Mrs. F. I. Jones, one of the courageous band of pioneer women who settled Bluff, Utah, and later, one of the first two women to begin the settlement of Monticello, Utah; Mrs. Carrie Jacobs Bond, of California, who, after living a hard life for many years, won success by composing such favorite songs as "I Love You Truly" and "A Perfect Dav." M RS. WINIFRED KIMBALL HUDNUT, granddaughter of Heber C. Kimball of pioneer fame, and widow of the world-famous manufacturer of cosmetics and per-fumes, Richard Hudnut, managed, through foresight, to save from the Nazis, in their subsequent occupation of her forty-four-room French chateau, a fabulous collection of antiques. There are historic Gobelin tapestries, rare furniture, priceless paintings, precious porcelains, exquisite shawls, and draperies. All these Mrs. Hudnut wishes to give to the State of Utah, if it will build an appropriate edifice to house them in Salt Lake City. ALL but three Latin American countries named as their choice for the year's outstanding poet, Gabriela Mistral of Chile, a charming, high-souled woman, an educator, and a diplomat. The first Chilean woman to serve as a consul, she has, as such, represented her country in Naples, Madrid, Lisbon, and Petropolis, Brazil. A stirring romance, which grew out of the war, is that of the former Suzanne Borel, recently first lady of France, and her husband, Georges Bidault. They met on the underground while he was chief of the national resistance movement. She, under his direction, was per-forming feats fraught with the ut-most danger and requiring skill, finesse, and strategy. Later, when he was minister of foreign affairs in France, she became director of his personal cabinet. Madam Bidault, one of the notable interior decora-tors of France, is also an outstanding linguist, speaking, among many foreign tongues, Chinese and Russian. WHEN our new National Congress met in Washington, the following women took their seats: Katherine St. George, New York; Margaret Chase Smith, Maine; Georgia Lusk, New Mexico; Edith Nourse Rogers, Massachusetts; Frances Bolton, Ohio; Mary T. Norton, New Jersey; Helen Gahagen Doug-las, California.