[Vol34 | March 1947 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty Years Ago]

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, March 1, and March 15, 1887 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE Women OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women OF ALL NATIONS" ADVICE TO GIRLS: Young ladies, you must perceive now that you have superior advantages to improve your minds and advance in the scale of intelligence to those who have lived in generations before you. It is necessary that you should hasten to step to its use; order and refinement are required in the chamber for the arrangement of the bed and furniture, but still more varied and numerous are the duties of the kitchen.... The necessity of industry, the obligation of each girl to work for her living, her happiness and her home, nothing is more valuable than to learn to work systematically and economically. —D. F. Cox THE MORAL EFFECT OF HURRY: To the thoughtful, the moral consequences of tension and hurry are very saddening; to the physician their results are a matter of profound concern; their grave evils come under his daily observation —London Lancet FROM GRANTSVILLE, UTAH: The sisters of Grantsville are trying to obey the counsel of Brigham Young in regard to storing grain. 'They are also trying to retrench from everything that is likely to injure them. The Relief and Retrenchment Societies are doing well. The former has over two hundred bushels of wheat stored away.... In our sewing meetings we always introduce subjects of conversation pertaining to matters of interest to us as a body of people, and no gossip is ever allowed or introduced.... The dancing parties here are closed at ten o'clock in the evening.... Out city fathers are trying with all their might to keep liquor stores out of Grantsville. We are trying to do as much good as we can, not forgetting the Temple by any means. ~M. A. House, Sec'y. FROM SPRINGDALE, KANE COUNTY: The weather is warm and beautiful; the almond and apricot trees are all in bloom, and nature's aspects are pleasant and delightful. The people feel to praise God for His abundant mercies—Mrs. S. K. Greene A TRUE LADY: Beauty and style are not the surest passports to respectability— some of the noblest specimens of womanhood the world has ever seen have presented — the plainest and most unprepossessing appearance. A woman's worth is to be estimated by her real goodness of heart and the purity and sweetness of her character.... She has a higher purpose in life than to flaunt her finery in the streets—Anon. GEORGE ELIOT: George Eliot is at work again on a new novel. It is said she feels very much disappointed that Middlemarch is considered better than Daniel Deronda. She herself regards this novel as her masterpiece. She produced her first original work eighteen years ago, and the whole product of the sale of her books is estimated at $165,000. OPINION: Dr.
Holland thinks that the cure for gossip is culture. He says good-natured people talk about their neighbors only because they have nothing else to talk about. Page 180