[Vol34 | March 1947 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: The Chadwell]
IF  YOU  WILL  DRIVE 
177 
placed  her  on  the  bed.  She  felt  a 
cold  cloth  on  her  face.  She  felt  a 
pull  at  the  something  in  her  hand, 
but  her  fingers  would  not  unclasp. 
Later,  she  turned  her  head  slowly. 
Gray  dawn  was  pushing  through  the 
doorway,  trying  to  reach  the  candle 
that  sputtered  weakly  on  the  table. 
She  watched,  fascinated,  as  the 
light  filled  the  room.  Queer,  that 
there  should  be  light  again.  The 
children  were  both  sleeping  in  the 
trundle  bed.  Ingeborg  was  sitting 
at  the  table,  and  when  she  turned 
her  eyes,  Becky  sat  up.  An  aching 
awareness  ran  through  her  muscles, 
and  from  the  deepest  recesses  of  her 
soul  came  a  gnawing  emptiness  that 
could  never  be  filled.  The  long 
years  would  go  on  and  on. 
Becky  dropped  her  feet  over  the 
bed,  and  one  struck  a  burlap-covered 
package.  She  raised  it  to  her  lap 
and  began  unrolling  it.  When  the 
boots  were  uncovered  in  her  hands, 
she  held  them  for  long  minutes. 
'Take  them,  Ingeborg,"  she  said 
suddenly.  'They  will  be  large,  but 
they  will  take  you  into  the  Valley." 
When  she  looked  again,  Ingeborg  s 
head  was  on  her  arms,  and  she  was 
sobbing,  quiet  sobs,  but  terrifying  in 
their  poignancy.  This  could  not  be. 
Ingeborg  was  always  so  calm,  so  full 
of  faith  and  patience.  Becky  touched 
her  on  the  shoulder. 
"Why  are  you  crying?  What  has 
hurt  you?" 
The  woman  raised  her  face.  It  had 
turned  old  and  defeated.  She  wiped 
her  eyes  with  the  corner  of  her  ap- 
ron. She  struggled  hard  with  her 
English. 
"All  de  time-I  take."  She  fin- 
gered the  leather  of  the  boots.  "Nef- 
er  do  I  gif.    Always  I  am  taking— 
alvays,  alvays.  I  try  keep  my  cry 
deep  inside." 
And  she,  Becky,  had  resented  the 
Danish  woman  because  of  the  help 
she  had  been  given  by  her.  She  had 
resented  Martha  Baker,  and  Angie 
MacDonald,  and  Ed  Parker.  Did 
they,  too,  have  a  "cry"  deep  inside? 
Was  it  that  which  made  Jennie  Call 
so  sharp-tongued?  Why,  the  chain 
was  endless. 
From  the  corroding  loneliness  of 
the  long  years,  from  the  depths  dug 
by  inadequacy  and  despair,  from  all 
the  petty  annoyances  and  hours  of 
hunger,  understanding  came  to 
Becky.  In  a  movement  such  as  this, 
all  gave,  and  all  received  in  one  form 
or  another;  and  because  of  the  giv- 
ing and  the  receiving,  twenty  thou- 
sand people  were  going  to  have 
their  faith  justified.  They  were  go- 
ing to  have  new  homes,  permanent 
homes 
"We  are  two  of  a  kind,  Ingeborg. 
With  your  wagon  and  my  cow,  we 
can  make  it  into  the  Valley." 
"But  your  gold—?" 
"My—?"  Slowly,  slowly,  Becky 
turned  to  the  bed  where  lay  the 
pouch  of  gold  dust.  She  put  out  her 
hand,  but  drew  it  back  sharply.  She 
could  not  use  it— the  price  of  Take's 
life. 
"He  sent  it."  Ingeborg  was  at  her 
elbow.  "He  could  not  come,  so  he 
sent  the  gold.  That  is  his  share.  You 
can  buy  a  wagon,  a  team,  warm 
clothes."  She  spoke  in  Danish,  but 
Becky  understood. 
"Yes.  Yes!  I  can  get  a  team,  if 
you  will  drive.  I  can  get  a  yoke  of 
oxen  for  your  wagon,  and  Martha 
and  her  husband  can  drive  them. 
We  can  all  be  in  the  Vallev  next 
summer,  Ingeborg,  if  you  will  take 
care  of  the  horses  and  drive."

Pioneer  Stories  and  Incidents 
HANDCART  PIONEERS 
President  Amy  Brown  Lyman 
[This  is  the  seventh  in  a  series  of  true  pioneer  incidents  to  be  published  by  The 
Relief  Society  Magazine  in  honor  of  the  1947  Utah  Centennial  celebration. — Ed.] 
AMONG  the  stories  which  tell  ing  and  praying  for  an  opportunity 
of   the   early   settlement    of  to  gather  to  Zion  with  the  saints,  to 
Utah,  and  of  the  great  hero-  come,  who  otherwise  would  not  have 
ism  of  the  settlers  themselves,  per-  been  able  to  do  so.    At  the  same 
haps  the  most  dramatic,  as  well  as  time,  it  brought  the  travelers  to  Utah 
the  most  pathetic,  are   those    con-  in  as  little  time  as  did   ox   teams, 
nected  with  the  handcart  pioneers—  Almost  anyone  could  walk  as  fast  as 
pioneers  who  were  so-called  because  a  yoke  of  oxen  could  travel.     The 
they  crossed  the  plains  with  the  aid  journey  across  the   plains    required 
of  handcarts.  from  three  to  four  months. 
In  all,  there  were  ten  companies  These  handcart  companies  were 
of  these  pioneers,  made  up  of  3,000  made  up  of  men,  women,  and  chil- 
individuals,  who  came  to  Utah  be-  dren,  the  majority  of  whom  walked 
tween  the  years  1856  and  1861,  the  the  entire  distance  of  1300  miles, 
first  company  arriving  in  Salt  Lake  pulling  and  pushing  their  carts, 
Valley  in  September  1856,  and  the  which  were  loaded  with  their  bag- 
last  one  in  September  i860.  They  gage  and  rations.  Only  a  few  wag- 
came  mostly  from  Europe— from  the  ons  accompanied  each  group  to  help 
British  Isles  and  Scandinavia.  These  with  the  heaviest  baggage  and  pro- 
daring  and  courageous  pioneers  visions,  and  to  provide  for  hospital 
landed  at  New  York,  or  Boston,  and  service.  These  noble  and  courage- 
proceeded,  by  rail,  to  Iowa  City  ous  converts  waded  through  rivers 
which  was  the  western  terminus  of  and  streams,  trudged  through  deep 
the  Rock  Island  Railroad,  and  the  sand  and  mud,  tramped  over  rough 
outfitting  point  for  the  handcart  and  rocky  roadways,  and  climbed