[Vol34 | March 1947 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes to the Field Time Class]

Page 183
Notes TO THE FIELD Time for Holding Optional Sewing Class THE General Board recommends that, wherever possible, the optional sewing course be held in connection «with the regular work meeting. Where it is not possible, however, to successfully work on the Welfare sewing and also conduct a sewing course during the work meeting, the sewing class may be held at the time most convenient for those who wish to participate in this course. These Relief Society sewing classes may be held once a week if the ward Relief Society presidency deems it advisable.: If the sewing class is held in connection with the regular work meeting, the Relief Society members attending the class should be given credit for being present at the work meeting. Non-members of Relief Society who attend the sewing class should be recorded as visitors. In as much as the record of sewing activities was devised to reflect the sewing services rendered by Relief Society members to others, or for the benefit of the organization itself, articles made at the sewing class, and the number of hours required to make them should not be counted nor recorded in the record book, if these articles were made for the benefit of the individuals taking the sewing course. If the class is held at a time other than the regular work meeting, it should be regarded as a special Relief Society project, and an account of the activities, number of women participating, and any other interesting information connected with the conduct of this class should be recorded in the narrative report only. Such a class, held at a time other than during the regular work meeting, is not a part of the work meeting, nor is it a special meeting.
OFFICIAL RELIEF SOCIETY PINS FOR GIFTS
These beautiful pins are made of blue baked French hard enamel and 24 carat goldplate. They are appropriate as mementos of appreciation for retiring officers, as birthday remembrances, and as emblems of recognition for long service in the Society. Price $1.20 postpaid. Send orders to General Board of Relief Society. 25