[Vol34 | March 1947 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Grandmother Eliza]
GRANDMOTHER 
Eliza  Carpenter 
\  ou  teach  me  to  be  glad  I  live 
in  spite  of  tears  and  pain, 
And  show  that  eyes  which  wept  with  grief 
Can  smile  with  joy  again; 
That  youth,  as  like  a  flower  bud 
Unfolding  to  the  sun, 
Grows  sweeter,  still,  with  fragrance 
As  the  rose,  when  day  is  done. 
WHO  MAKES  A  GARDEN 
Delia  Adams  Leitner 
Who  makes  a  garden  knows  another  world 
Than  he  who  lives  in  hurried,  clamorous  ways; 
The  joy  of  finding  tender  buds  unfurled 
Eases  the  tasks  and  strain  of  hardest  days. 
For  flowers  have  a  secret  all  their  own 
To  speak  to  those  who  love  them,  and  to  tell 
God's  way  is  good;  in  seed,  his  plan  is  shown, 
And,  following  it,  they  find  that  all  is  well. 
4  4 
Charity  Never  Faileth" 
SINCE  my  husband's  return  from  the  hospital,  I,  who  am  past  seventy-four,  have 
had  the  entire  care  of  looking  after  and  doing  everything  for  him.  I  have  been,  and 
still  am,  very  busy,  but  have  had  wonderful  help  and  assistance  from  the  members  of  the 
little  branch  of  Relief  Society.  Your  sixers  in  the  Society  here  are  truly  doing,  or  trying 
to  do,  their  duty.  As  members  of  the  Society,  they  have  been  most  kind,  although  the 
headquarters  are,  and  most  members  live,  more  than  twenty  miles  from  us,  still  they 
have  visited  us  often.  Sister  Lucy  Critchlow,  president  of  the  branch,  and  her  daughters 
and  daughter-in-law  come  often  to  clean  up  the  house,  and  have  been  doing  the  washing 
and  ironing  all  through  our  trouble.  All  members  have  been  very  kind  in  keeping  us 
well  supplied  with  eggs,  milk,  and  butter.  Although  they  are  few  in  number,  I  wish  to 
say  the  Relief  Society  of  the  Renfrew  Branch  is  most  surely  trying  to  do  good. 
G.  W.  S. 
West  Sunbury,  Pa. 
Page  216
