Conservation as Practiced by the Women of the Relief Society. While it is true that any organization or institution may accomplish marvelous results, such achievements will be the actual work of individuals who compose that body. We are hearing a great deal now about conservation  that word which spells closer economies, more rigid activity, and a keener application of preservative measures for home and national honor; so that it will be interesting to the readers of the Magazine to recall in some detail the labors in conservation undertaken and carried to successful issue by individual women on farms, in the wilderness, and in the confine s of the crowded city centers; as well as those greater endeavors of ward and stake Relief Societies,  not only such labors as have been called forth by the war, but those long carried on by this Society and its individual members in building homes and towns, beautifying them, and in conserving all the resources granted us by a beneficent heavenly Provider. The public press is full of glowing reports from this and that official concerning what Utah has done for this great war charity, and in that fine conservation movement. But we fail to find any credit given to the Relief Society through whose splendid and complete machinery of organized human effort, much of this war work has been undertaken. Men have subscribed money for the Liberty Loan, and our sons have enlisted and have entered the army at our country's call. We are glad to recognize and honor all these public-spirited men in their place and calling; so have most of the women of the state answered the call of the Red Cross and the State Food Conservation committee. But let us sift the facts somewhat. It is said by the best women's club authority that the club membership in the state amounts to about 3,000 women. Most of these, nearly all, are located in Salt Lake City 344 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE.
the Woman's Department of Food Conservation to fill out the Hoover cards, to dry and preserve foods, to make up the classes taught everywhere by the Agricultural College experts, to join and to do the work of the Red Cross, and indeed to finish the labor, economy, money and organized effort which characterizes Utah's output. It will not be just nor tolerable for paid officers of the Red Cross, Agricultural College, Defense Council, or indeed any person or persons to assume the credit, collect the money, and draw down the salaries contributed by the women of this or other organizations, without giving due credit, and without permitting this Society, as well as our sister organization, the Y. L. M. I. A., to give and receive money and service as a body and not as individuals. Itis well that we see this principle clearly. Never was there a time in the history of the Church nor of this Society when we needed to grasp the fundamental principles of unity, solidarity and loyalty to God and to the Relief Society as we do today. Let uc help, let us conserve, but let us not lose our identity as Relief Society women nor as women of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. These are momentous times  be not deceived. Wait for the word of direction, listen for the voice of inspired counsel. Do not permit this Society to be exploited for the honor of any man, woman, or official. Let us forget personal ambition, set aside selfish vanity and labor only for the cause of truth and righteousness. And now, let us give ear to the vivid and telling recital of one young widow's experiences in taking up 320 acres of land, bringing it under cultivation, virtually alone and unaided, except for the financial assistance of her struggling boy of fifteen, who worked in the summers to earn what money was absolutely essential to their plans, while his busy mother plowed, sowed and reaped: She took our Relief Society Nurse Course some years since, which doubled her citizenship values and added much to her own native pluck and intelligence. Left a widow in May, 1899, with a babe twenty months old, she has supported herself CONSERVATION. 545 through many trying years and scenes, as other noble widows have done and are doing: With one hundred dollars in her pocket Mrs. Nellie Allen made homestead entry of 320 acres, on November 4, 1912, in Dry Lake, near Holbrook, Snowflake stake, Arizona. Through drought and other conditions she was unable to start actual work until ten months later, when with the help of a man for one day to get the frame work up she built a lumber room 16x16, without windows, and with a bed tarp hung up for a door, in which she and her fifteen-year-old son lived. The son went into the hills alone and burned the native cement and hauled sand and wood which he brought to make blocks for the MRS. ALLEN OUT HUNTING. house. While the blocks were being made in the daytime the widow's son measured, sawed and made the doors and window frames. At night they kept fires on all sides of the blocks to keep them from freezing. When the fires went low one or the other got up and rebuilt them. While the house was building the mother planed the lumber for doors and window casings and mop-boards. They moved into the house on the 1st of March, 1914, although there were no shingles on the roof, for they had no money to buy them, and did not like to go in debt. So here 
 again they used wagon covers and bed tarps. The widow's father helped put them on. He had in mind the keeping out of the wind and sand, so started in at the top and lapped the canvas over as he came down. This worked fine until the heavy rains came. Then there was only a small place in the center that did not leak. Every drop that lit on the roof ran down under the lap below and into the house. Several times the water was four *inches deep, with the widow sweeping as fast as she could to keep it out. She put the table in the center, piled the bedding onto it. then things that should not be wet on top of the bedding. The trunk and a couple of boxes of books went under the table. The box couch rolled as near as it would go, so that the oilcloth on the table would reach over part way. Then all the pans she had were put along the rest of the way. Once she tried shingling the CONCRETE HOUSE BUILT BY MRS. ALLEX. bed with newspapers and catalogue leaves, but it was not much of a success. She went to Holbrook on the last of August, and got the shingles (Holbrook is twenty-six miles away). Her father showed her how to put them on, and her brother, fifteen years old, came and helped her. That was her first experience in that line of work, but the roof has not leaked since. WATER IS FOUND. Until they started to work on the homestead, there was a part of each year that everyone had to move away from the valley because there was no water. The mail carrier, who was compelled to pass through, had to haul water twenty miles. On the homestead is a low clay flat; an old sink hole, it is supposed, where many head of cattle have died when the water dried up. She thought by scraping a deep hole at the lowest part of the pond, she could have water for a much longer time. The pond CONSERVATION. 
 ALLEN TOOK UP HER FARM. had been dry and dusty virtually for over a year, and there had been one well bored seventy-five feet deep two and one-half miles south, without a sign of water. So one can imagine their surprise and delight, when about eighteen inches of dirt had been scraped off, to see one of the horses bog (sink) down to his body. They took the horses and scraper out to one side and started in with a shovel, and in half an hour had a well that could not be dipped dry. Later when they were making blocks they dug a well that filled a 500-gallon tank. This water has been the greatest blessing Dry Lake has known, for no one has had to move away on that account since. The spring the house was made the widow set out 36 fruit trees, 16 currant bushes, 10 gooseberry bushes and 10 shade trees. She drew water alone from the well and carried to them, often drawing one hundred and twenty-five gallons in an evening. Because of the extreme drought she raised only a small patch of beans and corn that year, and after the rains began, a little garden. Most of the time she was alone, except when a little niece would come and stay at night. Her nearest neighbors were a brother and sister and their family, who lived one-half mile away on their homesteads. They were compelled to move away to school, so that left the widow all alone. On the 4th of January, 1915, she went over to Holbrook and started cooking in her brother's hotel. Here she stayed three months. This helped to get seed for planting and a little left to go on with. She tried raising chickens and had the finest kind of luck until she was called away by sickness for a few days; when she got back the bob-cats had left her three hens, some wings and a lot of feathers. She has not given up, but expects to have a poultry farm yet. 
 HOME-MADE MACHINERY. Outside of about ten acres, planted with a two-row planter or lister, the widow planted all her crop with an invention of her father's and her own. She called it a digger. It had a small steel nose, to act as a subsoiler, fastened on to an old beam of a potato digger. There was a piece of pipe running down from a cement sack funnel, which was fastened to the beam. The pipe had a small triangular piece cut out at the back, to keep it from clogging. The father drove the team while she walked behind holding the digger with one hand and dropping seed with the other. She had a seed bucket fastened to the digger handles. MRS. ALLEN AND FATHER PLANTING. They planted eighty acres for themselves and others in this way, averaging a row fifteen miles long or about five acres a day. Next she started the weeder, invented and made by her brother, when through planting. The first day she had her father's team for half a day, then her pony team which was given her by her father for the other half. In this way she weeded eleven acres in that one day. The rest of the summer she used her own three ponies, working two at a time, averaging about five acres a day. She brought the horses from the pasture and harnessed and unharnessed them herself most of the time. Beside thirty acres which she weeded for herself, she weeded one hundred CONSERVATION. 549 acres for other people. Some of it she weeded twice during the summer. A larger part of the homestead was not touched from planting till harvest except what she did. Most of the crop was beans and corn. She raised a few squash, one thousand pounds of beans and ten tons of corn and fodder. The next winter her sister and family built at the other end of the valley to be near school, and her brother moved away. So in February, 1916, she went off to Woodruff to nurse, as nursing was her profession, and stayed till the 1st of May, when she came back and started planting again. DISCOURAGEMENTS THICKEN. The oats and corn were as pretty and green as anything ever grown. The beans were just ready to peep out of the ground when, on the 7th and 8th of June, a wind came which brought the beans down like mushrooms. It blew the loose dirt away from them MRS. ALLEN S FATHER PLOWING. and left the white bean on long, slender stems which wilted as soon as the sun struck them. The oats made one think of grass on the edge of a pond, only, instead of reflection, it was the real white roots about six inches out of the ground. The corn looked like a fire had passed over it. The wind ended in a rain. But since she had to stay on the homestead seven months out of the year, crop or no crop, the plucky woman felt she must not give up; so with the help of her little nephew, and an old hand corn planter, she replanted to corn. The rains kept coming, and with the hot days quite a number of beans that had not sprouted before now came up, and with the replanted corn she had promise of quite a crop. The corn was about a foot high and some of the beans were fixing for bloom when she noticed some cattle were in the field, at the north end, a mile away. She was terribly afraid 
 of strange cattle, so she got her nephew to go with her, taking staples and hammer to fix the wire. The boy drove the cattle out while she went on out to the line. The wind which had ruined their crop had piled Russian thistles against the fence which had caught the sand until the wire was covered up for half a mile; and part of the way, just the tip of the seven foot posts could be seen. When the brave homesteader saw that fence she sat right down there and cried, for she knew what it meant. In two days she counted 200 head of cattle inside her field. She tried to dig the wire out, but found it too much of a job, so took a day off at mother's so she would not have to watch things eaten. Think of it, you full-fed, well-protected city dwellers! Last winter she went away again for four months nursing. This spring the widow fenced off thirty acres by itself, so she hopes the crop is safe from cattle. She has only a few acres in, for her team died last winter. So she has not run the weeder this year. She has taken out the weeds with another of her brother's inventions which they call a shove-hoe; they push it under the weed instead of hacking the weeds off in the old way. With this she can weed as much as two men the other way. SICKNESS ASSAILS. For nearly two years her nearest neighbors have lived three and one-half miles away and she was alone most of the time. For weeks at a time she would see no one, except once a week, when some one would come for water, for they haul all the water for house use from there except in the spring when the tanks nearer by are fresh. Other times men who were farming there, but who did not live there, would bring their horses to water every day. They would always call to the cheery homesteader to know if she was all right. Once she took suddenly ill. She went out and put up a white apron on a quilting frame, which she tied to a fence post. Her sister who had lived half a mile away had formed the habit of looking for the widow's light every evening, so she hoped the sister would see her flag of distress; but it happened that she was not at home. Her mother and other sisters were busy, so did not look down that way. She had no thermometer, but took her own pulse late in the afternoon. It was 108. Mexican sheep herders were always camped not far from the place, at times as many as five herds  on every side a camp fire. They hardly ever came near the homestead, except to ask where some ranch was or some other herd. They quite often visited from one camp to another. It so happened one had passed the house in the morning of this day, going to see a friend on the other side of the section. Always before she had felt more at ease the farther away they stayed, but this time the sick woman watched and waited for that CONSERVATION. 551 Mexican to come back. She spoke no Spanish, but hoped to be able to get the man to take a note and get help, but he did not come back that way. Finally dark came. She had tried putting a wet towel on her head and around her wrists, but would chill so that she could not stand it. So a while after dark, when she was getting no better and felt like she was burning up, she took her pulse again. This time it was 127 to the minute. She began to think she might make mouse and rat food before anyone found her, so she got up and started for the other end of the prairie. The horses were out in the pasture, so it was out of the question to get one of them. On she stumbled, not daring to stop for fear she would not make it. She reached her people between ten and eleven o'clock that night. Several times she had walked from their home after dark, and alone, but not when she was sick. Who may describe her feelings? The illness resembled the new plague, spinal meningitis, and was an epidemic which was very severe while it lasted. She, being a nurse herself, was called out to children three times the week before she took sick; the patients seemed to be on the verge of convulsions when their temperature was highest. Also she went to a sister who seemed near death for one whole night. They were all up walking around in three or four days; and it was the same with the widow, who returned home again before a week. The spine in each case was affected from the waist down for several weeks after the attack and felt like there was something missing in the back when moving around. When the widow wanted anything from town, twenty-six miles away, she would hitch up her team and go after it, always letting her people know where she had gone, and when she expected to get back. Once, when everyone else had left the valley, she brought home quite a load, so did not get back till long after dark. Some of her men folks were coming by another road and did not expect to reach the valley that night. While she was unhitching she looked around at the camp-fires and thought if anything should happen to her she would make for a certain fire which was two miles away. There was a fire on each side of this one, just a little distance away. The next morning the boys' horses were here at the corral and when they came for them they told her she had picked the right fire. People often ask if it is not lonesome for the homesteader. She replies: "Yes; sometimes the quiet just rings in my ears, and at night a mouse scampering across the floor wakes me with a start. I am a light sleeper, and have depended much on that fact and on a Winchester which I always have within easy reach, for my protection. I thank the Lord each morning for daylight, when T am alone." She is always blessed with plenty to do and a love for books in spare time, which has helped a great deal. Then when she 
 likes to take her gun, she goes for a rabbit hunt. The rabbits have been such pests that the settlers have tried every means of killing them off. A few old jack rabbits will do as much damage in the corn in a night as a yearling calf, especially after the corn is shocked. They have found the jack rabbits good chicken feed, and some people like the little bush rabbits, although the widow cannot eat them. She killed five hundred rabbits the first winter she was homesteading. A few times she has gone too close to an old rattle-snake for comfort. Once she was taking out the ash-pan and did not notice where she was stepping till she was all tangled up with one. Two other times one has been right up to the step before she saw it, and once she stepped over one, half under the step. One she stepped over one in a corn row. Many times she has just seen them in time to avoid stepping on them, but they always let you know if they arc unfriendly. She offered final proof on her homestead May 29, 1917. and thus ended the first act in her domestic drama. But who may tell the courage, resourcefulness, will-power and self-control begotten of these experiences? The results on all who know or hear, and especially upon her own son, will prove the value and importance of Sister Allen's labors and sacrifices. These are the pioneer labors that have made this people what they are. When women sit down to mourn or cast their burdens on relatives and friends, tell them of Nellie Allen and her homesteading experiences in Dry Lake. Snowflake stake. Arizona.