EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	Thinking the many readers of your valuable
paper would like to hear what we are doing in
the North Oneida Stake, we will send the
minutes of a quarterly conference of the Y.
M. and Y. L. M. I. A. held in Franklin, Aug.
15th.  There were present of the Stake Presi-
dency, Prest. M. F. Cowley, Coun. F. C. Par-
kinson,  Prest.  Esther  C. Parkinson,  Coun.
Ruth A. Hatch.
	After the usual opening exercises,the follow-
ing parts were rendered:  Select Reading by
Bro. Andrew Shumway, from Elder J. M.
Grant’s missionary experiences; followed by
Clara Goaslind who gave a synopsis of the life
of Queen Esther.  Bro. S. B. Cutler reported
the Franklin Association as doing well.  Luella
Parkinson recited, Whistling in Heaven.  An
Essay on obedience was read by Bro. David
Williams of Franklin.  The Y. L. Association
of Franklin and the  Y.  M.  Assocation.  of
Fairview were each reported as being in a 
flourishing condition.  Coun. Ruth A. Hatch
felt to encourage Mutual Improvement.  A
Recitation entitled, What I live for, was ren-
dered by Bro. John Rankin.  Brother Bing-
ham of Clifton, Stake Secretary of the Y. M.
M. I. A. spoke on the first principles of the
Gospel in a very able manner.  Bro. Davis
advised the young men to obtain an inherit-
ance in Zion.  Singing.  Benediction by F. C.
Parkinson.
	Afternoon session:  After opening exercises
remarks were made by members of different
associations who expressed a determination to
remain faithful to the glorious work in which
we are engaged, and desired to do all they
could to aid Mutual Improvement.  Acting
Bishop S. R. Parkinson, lately arrested at
Ogden on the usual charge, felt well in our
midst expressed an earnest desire to remain
faithful to all the principles of the Gospel; ad-
vised the people to be united and remember
there are some among us not able to help
themselves, and no one should suffer for the
necessaries of life.  Parents should be inter-
ested in their children; educate them that they
may become shining instruments in the King-
dom of God; asked an interest in the faith and
prayers of the brethren and sisters in his be-
half, that he might be true to his God and to
the covenants he had made, as he did not feel
to make a shipwreck  of what  he had done.
Prest. M. F. Cowley wished to impress upon
the minds of the young people the importance
of the great work in which we are engaged.
	We live in a day that the apostles looked
forward to, and desired to see.  Spoke in re-


gard to the pre-existence of man in the spirit
world and some were more noble than others 
and of those the Lord will make rulers. Man
has been appointed to come forth in the time 
and manner in which he does, and part of his 
mission is to occupy and till the land. All 
manner of precious metal shall be found in 
the land of Joseph on the Western Hemis-
phere, quoting references form the Bible to 
substantiate his remarks. The ancient prophets 
and apostles foresaw the downfall of the
ancient church and for seventeen centuries
there was no true church until the Lord spoke 
through the Prophet Joseph Smith who re-
ceived all the keys that had been held by holy  
men of old, our spirits have been reserved to 
come forth in the day when Latter-day Saints 
will see Zion redeemed. 
	Prest. Esther C. Parkinson spoke of the 
necessity of obeying the commandments of 
God and disapproved of the Saints following 
too much after the fashions of this world.
There are great responsibilities resting upon
every member in order to advance their asso-
ciations, advised all to be faithful. 
	After a few remarks by F. C. Parkinson 
conference was adjourned for three months.
Ever withing for the prosperity of Zion, we
reamin,
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
	ESTHER C. PARKINSON,
