THE MEMBERS.
	
	Undoubtedly, to day there is no other place,
be it state, territory or country, under the
broad canopy of heaven,  which is so univers-
ally observed, as the subject of this sketch.
Utah is talked about, written of and lectured
upon, until, really, there remains but few, if
any, new ideas concerning her, to be formed or
expressed. So rigorously is this subject handled,
both by friends and enemies, especially the
latter, in all classes of society, that we scarcely
find time to measure one point, or sound the
force of one argument in relation to it, before
something else is thrust upon us for considera-
tion.
	And yet, as young men and women belong-
ing rightfully to Utah, we should give thought
to her and her affairs; deep studious thought;

[Column 2]
not allowing ourselves to become wearied even
by misrepresentations and odiums cast upon a
theme at once so popular yet so little under-
stood by a vast majority of the whole world.
	Many of us, who now help to form the grow-
ing strength and increasing glory of Utah,
may proudly claim her as our birth place.
Others who still belong to our young peoples'
association, have vivid  recollections of the
long tedious journey across the plains with ox
teams. Oh! that toilsome journey!  How many
of our fathers, weary and foot-sore, performed
the entire expedition on foot!  How many of
our mothers walked until they fainted in their
tracks, before they would add their scanty
weight to the loads drawn by the already over-
worked teams.  But they got through at last,
those who survived, and "found the place pre-
pared for them, far away in the west." How
good it seemed to find a resting place!  How
the fathers and mothers praised God for His
goodness; how their little ones sported and
laughed.  How thankful thousands were for
the first new clothes they obtained after set-
tling in Utah.  In many instances even the
little children helped in the production of
those clothes, by pulling the wool off the dead
sheep, or gathering it off the sage brush where
it had been left by sheep passing along to nib-
ble the grass.
	How happy many a Utah girl and boy felt
in those times if provided with a pair of buck-
skin moccasins to cover the little chapped and
bruised feet with on Sundays.  And oh! how
good the cakes sweetened with beet or water-
melon molasses tasted.  No dainties appear
on our tables now that we have half the relish
for.
	These are things of the past; but they must
be thought of and considered in order to pro-
perly contrast the Utah of to-day with the
Utah of twenty and thirty years ago.
	Under the blessings of an all wise and all
merciful Father, and the ceaseless toil and
labors of an industrious and ambitious people.
Utah has taken gigantic strides in the paths of
enterprise and development.  Her boys and
girls, from six to fifteen years, attend school
now, instead of herding sheep and cows.  And
here, let it be noted, that to educate the chil-
dren in the right way, in all that is useful and
ennobling to the human character, has ever
been one of the fundamental principles upon
which the founders of Utah have operated.
Everywhere in the Territories, where enough
inhabitants have settled to form a ward or
branch almost the first thing thought of and
looked after has been the establishment of
a school for the children.  And where fami-
lies have resided too far from settlements to
admit the children attending school, books and
slates have been their companions at home,
and the parents themselves have been the
tutors.  Doubtless, hundreds of our young
men and women can recall with pleasure the
times when they took their spelling-books and
readers with them and learned their lessons
while they followed the sheep.  I know some
who can.
	Returning to Utah of to-day, we find that
her day and Sabbath schools and also her
literature compare favorably with any State
or Territory of equal age, and with some that
are much older.  In many other respects she
also ranks high.  Having means provided by
which the poor are relieved without the neces-
sity of begging.  The erection of handsome
and substantial buildings for public benefit,
etc., etc.
	Judging from the past and the present, we
may safely conclude, that if the youth among
us are as faithful to the trusts reposed in them,
as energetic and determined as their parents
have been, and they should be much more so,
Utah, in the near future, will shine forth,
"beautiful and glorious."


