REBA BEEBE PRATT.

	DIED, at her residence in Farmer’s Ward,
Wednesday morning, September 1st. 1886, Sister
Reba B. Pratt, beloved wife of Elder Alma Pratt-
Sister Pratt’s illness was of a very trying and pain-
ful nature, and her sufferings, a greater part of
the time during the last two years, had been most
intense and agonizing. To those around her, and.
her friends who visited her from time to time, she
was a marvel of patience and sweet resignation.
No complaints or murmurs were ever heard from
her lips, and when momentarily free from pain she
was bright and cheerful. She had an angelic
spirit, and her faith in the principles of divine
truth was ever strong and fervent. Her sick room
might well be called “a chamber of peace, for
such it seemed to me whenever I visited her. Sis-
ter Pratt was in herself a beautiful character, and
possessed of a gifted and refined nature.
	Through the entreaties of her most intimate
friends she was persuaded, during the period of
her illness, to consent to the publication of her
fragmentary writings. The book was issued about
ten days previous to her demise. Some of the
pieces were written while she was suffering acute
pain, and as she has always been a very busy and
industrious person, has not had leisure to write
and revise and cultivate as much as some others,
but wrote as she felt impressed from time to time.
The title she chose for her book is certainly a
most appropriate one: “The Sheaf of a Gleaner.”
A sketch of the author’s life was written by Sister
Sarah' Jane Cannon, and published with the poems.
This biography gives interesting facts, and dates,
etc., a valuable addition to the work. We must
congratulate Sister Cannon on her success in pre-
paring this introduction to the verses, as it gives
the reader a greater interest in the poems.
	Such lives as that of Sister Pratt are worthy of
record, and we shall be glad to republish the
sketch from the little book at some future time,
if permitted. A poem entitled, “When Will The
Messenger Come,” expresses her real feelings in
regard to death in a most pathetic and touching
style. The last verse is:

"When through the dark waters he bears me away,
	A boon to my sould it would be
If that dream unbroken—like some magic spell—
	Could keep death's shadow from me;
Oh, blessed dream! could the awakening come 
	With my father and mother, safe at home.”

By that dream she means a dream of childhood,
in her sleep, to which she alludes in the preceding
verse.
	Sister Pratt was born April 1st, 1856, in Polk
City, Iowa. Her parents were Latter-day Saints,
and she was early taught the principles of the
Gospel, to which she ever remained firm and
steadfast. She was baptized Dec. 4th, 1869, by
Elder Moroni L. Pratt. She was ambitious in


her desire for knowledge, and early qualified her-
self for a teacher, receiving a certificate to teach
at sixteen.  Afterwards she attended the Iowa
State Agricultural College for one year.  She ac-
quitted herself honorably in all the positions she
filled, whether practical or literary; and as a wife
and mother, she was devoted and self-sacrificing.
In Farmer’s Ward, where she has lived since her
marriage, January 10th, 1876, she has filled, at
different times, the offices of Primary Counselor
and President of both Primary and Young Ladies’
Mutual Improvement Associations.
   Sister Pratt’s life was replete with good deeds,
and she died in the full hope of a glorious resur-
rection beyond the grave.


[Column 1]
