	BY THE EDITOR.

	Suicide, or self-murder is becoming an event of
startling frequency in our country. At no time
since the people came to these valleys has there
been so many suicides in proportion to the popu-
lation as of late. In fact, in early days, it was a
crime almost unknown to the people; and if a
self-murder occurred, it shocked the community
and excited deep and wide-spread comment. But
now there is scarcely a daily paper without an ac-
count of some person having attempted self-de-
struction. A mania for self killing appears to be
going through the country. No doubt the com-
mission of this act by one suggests the crime to
others. Weak-minded people, or those who have
a love for notoriety, brood over the killing of
which they have heard, until their minds become
morbid and partly insane upon the subject, and
in a moment of temptation they destroy them
selves.
	The frequency with which this crime is com-
mitted calls loudly upon those in authority in the
community to take some measures to check the
mania. It should receive immediate attention.
The seal of public condemnation should be put
upon suicide. Those who have an inclination of
this kind should be made to understand that in
killing themselves, they gain an infamous notori-
ety and bring upon themselves public dishonor
and the same condemnation that is attached to
murder of every kind.
	This crime is increasing rapidly in the United
States and other nations. It seems to be one of
the results of Satan’s increased influence over the
children of men. Having no tabernacle himself,
he would like to prompt every child of God to
destroy his body. When a human being becomes
possessed of the devil, the tabernacle is soon
wrecked; for neither he nor his companion spirits
know to what use to put a fleshly tabernacle ex-
cept to destroy it.
	Man did not create himself. He did not furnish
his spirit with a human dwelling place. It is
God who created, man, both body and Spirit. Man
has no right, therefore, to destroy that which he
had no agency in creating. They who do so are
guilty of murder, self-murder it is true; but they
are no more justified in killing themselves than
they are in killing others. What difference of
punishment there is for the two crimes, I do not
know; but it is clear that no one can destroy so
precious a gift as that of life without incurring a
severe penalty.
	By the people of medieval times the remains
of those who were guilty of this offense were
treated as the remains of other murderers. In
England, it was the practice to dig the grave
of the suicide in a place where four roads met.
The body was consigned to the hole, and a stake
was driven through it into the ground, and it was
then covered up. This was a barbarous method
of treating the lifeless remains of a human being;
but it clearly expresses the horror that was en-
tertained by the people of those days of this

[Column 2]
dreadful crime. It doubtless was designed to
be barbarous in order to impress the minds of the
people with the awful consequences of such an
 act, and to show the execration with which the
memories of suicides would be held by surviving
generations. To this day places of this kind,
where the bodies of suicides were buried are
known and pointed out by the common people.
The rememberance of the manner in which they
destroyed themselves, and their burial places, are
perpetuated from generation to generation, and
such spots are dreaded and shunned, especially in
the night.
	This custom of refusing Christian burial to self-
murderers prevails upon the continent of Europe.
The Catholic church in Europe rigidly excludes
murderers from burial in what is knowu as con-
secrated ground. This is the rule also where the
Greek church the Lutheran church and the church
of England have control. The mortal remains of
no suicide is permitted to be buried in ground
which has been consecrated as the last resting
place of those who lead proper lives. In this way
these churches show their condemnation of this
crime. I think the Latter-day Saints should do
no less. There is no people who are taught as we
are to place a high value upon life. We are
taught to look upon murder as a most frightful
crime. The sacredness and importance of human
life are impressed upon us by every revela-
tion which God has given concern-
ing man and his future destiny. The
Spirit of God impresses man to look with
abhorence upon the shedding of blood; and no
man, who is possessed of it, will take the life of
an animal, a fowl, a fish, or even an insect, un-
necessarily.
	In order to palliate the crime of self-murder
there is a disposition often shown to attribute the
act to insanity or aberration of mind. This is
especially so where the individual who destroys
himself, or herself has been respected, or where
they have respectable connections. In this way
it is thought the feelings of surviving relatives
will be saved. Doubtless there are many cases of
self-murder which are due to insanity; but that
this mania can be greatly controlled and checked,
experience has abundantly proven. At one time,
in the city of Paris, the mania for self-destruction
became almost an epidemic. The authorities, be-
ing alarmed at the increase of the crime, took the
subject into consideration, and, finally, decided to
expose the body of every suicide, stripped of
every vestige of clothing, to the gaze of all the
public, who chose to visit the morgue, or dead-
house. It seemed a brutal thing to do, but the
epidemic needed a strong remedy. It had the de-
sired effect. Suicides almost ceased. Even
abandoned women shrank from committing self-
murder in view of such a penalty—the exposure of
their persons after death to the vulgar gaze. This
experiment plainly proves that there can be
checks used to prevent this crime.
	I do not believe that many would commit cuicide
among us if it were known beforehand that such
indignities as I have referred to would be heaped
upon their lifeless remains. But if officers and
members of our Church meet to-gether, and some
of our Elders,with eloquent words,bear testimony
to the moral worth and the excellent traits of
character of the one who has violently taken his
or her own life, and then a cortege is formed to
accompany the body, with solemn pagantry, to the
cemetery, to consign it to a resting place amidst
the honored dead whose lives have been just and
pure, what is there to make the living think that
self-murder is a dreadful sin against God and
against humanity?
	Many perhaps will think this language harsh.
Sympathy for the families of those who commit
this deed would prompt words of comfort, because
of the dreadful trial to which they are subjected;
but this crime is becoming too common to admit


of this method of dealing with it. Justice to the
living—justice to the rising generation, demands
that it shall receive the condemnation which it de-
serves. It is murder, and men and women can
not be justified in staining their hands even with
their own blood or in taking their own lives.
	The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
should set its seal of reprobation and condemna-
tion upon this dreadful act. Instead of honoring
them who commit it by making their funerals dis-
tinguished, and treating them as though they were
dead heroes or heroines, and making no distinc-
tion between them and those who have worn
themselves out in the service of their God, let
them be buried in secret and without display, and
in ground far removed from the burial places of
those who have lived lives of honor and purity.—
Juvenile Instructor


