EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE death notice of Sister Eliza Lyman, pub-
lished in our issue of September 1st, was more to
put her death on record in the EXPONENT, where
it should have been published at the proper time.

	IMPROVED BLANKS for the Young Ladies
Associations are now ready and for sale at the
Deseret News Office in this City.  It is to be hoped
the Associations will obtain these new blanks for
current reports and thus make all reports uniform.

	In looking over some old copy, we came across
the re-organization of the Relief Society in Draper
last year.  It is late to publish it, but it should
certainly be on record in the WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT.

	THE Stake Secretaries of the Primary Associa-
tions in the several Stakes in Zion will please for-
ward reports to this office, WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
at the earliest date possible, in order that a com-
plete report may be prepared for the October Con-
ference.

	SISTERS ELLEN C. CLAWSON and Lydia Ann 
Wells visited Granger Ward, and attended two
meetings of the Primary Association at that place,
on Tuesday, Sep. 7, and enjoyed the day very
much.  Further particulars of the meetings will
be furnished hereafter.

	THE closing exercises of Dr. Maggie C. Shipp's
class in obstetrics took place last Monday.  The
graduates were all of this city—Miss Mary
Schwartz, Mrs. Sarah White and Mrs. Mary Ed-
wards.  These ladies passed most creditable and
thorough examinations, which were conducted by
Drs. Anderson, H. J. Richards, Bower and Harri-
son.  Through the thoughtful kindness of Miss
Schwartz Dr. Shipp and her class were invited to
the Gardo House, where a most interesting and
enjoyable time was spent, in feasting the mind and
body.  At the close of the day the ladies separated,
each with thankful hearts for their success, in
their studies, and an earnest prayer for their future
usefulness.  Dr. Shipp and her class wish to ex-
press their gratitude to the physicians, who have
so kindly assisted, by delivering such useful and
well selected lectures, The next class will com-
mence on Monday, Oct. 1st, 1886.

	OUR [-]eaders will very likely have noticed that
for some time past there have been no contribu-
tions from the pen of our gifted sister, Hannah T.
King, and possibly they have wondered why she
has not written.  For years she has been a regular
contributor, scarcely a number of the paper hav-
ing been issued without one or more of her articles
appearing but her health has failed, and she is no
longer able to write, much as she would like to do
so.  She has suffered very great pain, and is now
upon a bed of affliction.  She delighted in writing


—it was with her an inspiration and a pleasure.
Many are the enconiums of praise given her by 
those who enjoyed and appreciated her articles. 
Perhaps when the cooler weather comes she may
recruit and become known again through her
writings. She has had great faith exercised for
her through the administration of the Elders, and
many precious promises have been given, that
have buoyed her up and helped her, and Sister
King is perfectly passive, and reconciled to the 
will of the Lord to go or to stay, as seemeth His
will. It was our duty, no doubt, to have men-
tioned Sister King's illness in the EXPONENT be-
fore, but we hoped she would soon recover and 
take her accustomed place in the columns of our 
little paper. We are greatly indebted to her for
 many beautiful thoughts, eloquently expressed,
and her memory will live in the hearts of thou-
sands who never knew her personally, because of 
her valuable contributions to home literature.


