GOOD NURSES.

	This subject should at once attract the at-
tention of every woman. How often we hear
the question asked, "Where can I find a good
nurse?" Nature has especially endowed women
for the occupation; and all, even men so peculi-
larly sensitive and inconsistent on this point,
will concede the fact that its labors are within
woman's sphere; at the same time woman is
most often in situations to realize the necessity
for and appreciation of a competent nurse. It 
is a matter of surprise that communities are
so indifferent regarding this very important
art and will possibly submit to such a display
of ignorance as is usually met with in the sick
room. As a rule people are exceedingly par-
ticular about the physician they employ, are
careful to assure themselves of his or her
thorough education always showing preference
for one of skillful repute but fail to take the
same precaution regarding a nurse generally
through ignorance or mistaken ideas of econo-
my accepting those who will work for the least
wages, who, realizing that they are incompetent
and having incurred no expenses in educating
themselves for the business they wish to follow,
cannot demand good wages.
	Considering the constant demand for nurses
it would seem as wise policy for physicians, when
establishing themselves in a community, to at
once begin training a corps of nurses whom
they could feel justfied in recommending to
their patients thus removing much cause for suf-
fering and relieveing themselves of much blame
which rightfully belongs to the nurse. We
think the two provisions are inseparable when
success is desired.
	In the infancy and youth of our derritory
when people struggled hard for subsistence
among the hardships endured by women, was
hearing the trials and pains of maternity un-
aided by either competent doctor or nurse, and
many, in consequence, have lost their lives or
dragged through weary months or years mar-
tyrs to unnecessary physical suffering. Years
ago President Brigham Young with character-
istic high regard for and liberality to woman
appreciating her capabilities and needs strongly
urged the education of women as physicians
and it was with his advice and encouragment
that a number of ladies undertook the
study of medicine and became graduates of
medical colleges in the East, and have pursued
the practice of medicine in this territory ap-
parently with as great success as any of the 
opposite sex. With such efficient instructors,
willing to labor and disseminate their knowlege
attained through the untold energy, exertion
and sacrifice, for slight renumeration and with
hundreds of young and middle aged ladies
seeking employment, why will they not em-


brace the excellent advantages afforded in the
various classes organized for the special educa-
tion of women in obstetrics and nursing? and
become efficient reliable workers in an honor-
able and humane calling. In conversation with
Dr. Maggie C. Shipp who will shortly begin an- 
other class in obstetrics she assured me that
she had a list of names of women who being
out of employment have sought her recomen-
dation as nurses but some have had no educa-
tion or training in this responsible office in
justice to herself and those requiring assistance
she is obliged to withhold her signature and
aid. The occupation of a professional nurse is a
remunerative one and her services are always
in demand, but the reasons are clearly defined
to the reasonable mind why the kuewledge of
obstetries and nursing, especially the latter, is
essential to every wife and mother who is con-
tinually required to discharge these duties in
her family, and with what satisfaction and suc-
cess these labors of love might be performed
with the advantages and assurance that knowl-
edge gives. We would certainly encourage
every young lady to take a course as some are
doing in this branch of learning before she 
considers herself qualified to assume the re-
sponsibilities of a home and family whose
health,happiness and prosperity depends chiefly
upon the intelligence and qualifications of the 
Wife and Mother.
