DEAR SISTER WELLS:

	Since my promise some months ago to chain
my thoughts and present them in readable
form to our dear little paper, for the considera-
tion of our sisters, I have formed many a reso-
lution to keep it, but in the midst of the daily
round of a mother’s busy life, where heart and
brain and physical powers alike have been
taxed to the utmost, it seems that I could do
no more than read the little messenger of in-
telligence, so filled with warm, bright and pure
womanly thoughts, like a sweet, comforting
friend  in the hour of distress. How many
times my heart has respouded to the sentiments
expressed, and I feel that the same echo will
come from hundreds of sister hearts, who,
while appreciating the efforts of the writers,
through timidity, withhold their own able
thoughts on the various questions of interest to
us as a people; and there is not the freedom of
response, which, if concentrated in the pages
of the EXPONENT, would so much better repre-
sent the faith, experience and intelligence of
the women of Israel. Some may call it "small
talk," but I doubt if such ever give expression
to greater wisdom, or purer and more lofty
sentiments. Still, I do not think the EXPON-
ENT as well sustained as it should be to do
credit to our sisterhood.	
	Who does not feel inspired with the grand
truths so majestically and beautifully portrayed
by our general favorite, Hannah T. King? or
who can read the sweet eloquence, entwined
with sound arguments, deep wisdom and
faith, born of experience, displayed in "Aunt
Em's" articles, without an increase of spiritual
strength and power to meet life's trials more
bravely? Then Helen Mar Whitney leads one
to think that they have never done anything
for the kingdom of God, and are unworthy to 
unlatch the shoes of those who have borne and
suffered so very much in helping to establish 
the work of God, the heroism which she por-
trays in the lives of our sisters is a beacon
light to those who know that trial is the 
promised portion of a true Saint. And the
"Biographies of noble women"—one is led to
emulate their virtues and reverence the charac-
ters thus glorified, and I often think how little

[Column 2]

of a life's history can be crowded into a few
pages—the unwritten history looms up before
me, and I am glad that angels are more accu-
rate historians than mortals. I wonder if any
one can read the poems of Emily Hill Wood-
mansee, Lula, Augusta Joyce Crocheron and
Lu Dalton without finding something to feed
their souls and touch the tender, hidden chords 
of the heart?
	By the way, why don't Lu Dalton favor us
oftener with her sound logic, impressive senti-
ments and entertaining sarcasms? I've missed
her very much of late years. Would love to 
re-peruse "Horoscope," but have searched in
vain for the forgotton number of the paper in
which it appeared. Will she forward a copy
and gratify an admirer? I've spent many a
happy hour with "Queerie" and "Mary" of
Grantsville, and why are they silent? A score
of nom de plumes and initials that have puzzled
and vexed me would also receive a hearty vote
of thanks could I be furnished with an intro-
duction to those whose identity is so carefully
guarded by them. I trust that we shall have
many spicy chats with "Homespun." I'm sure
she will find much on that far off isle to enter-
tain and instruct us, in her ever cheery, origin-
al way. Well, memory fails to recall just now
all whose pen pictures have given me pleasure.
I like the gems of thought interspersed here
and there; in them one gets a sermon at a 
glance. Hints on household management,
home government, the proper training of our
human twigs, cookery, hygienic notes and
pleasant paragraphs are all very acceptable in
a woman's companion.
	May the latent talent of Zion's daughters be
fostered and improved by cultivation and
demonstrated in the pages of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT. May it indeed be a true repre-
sentative of the faith, culture, intelligence and 
heroism of the noblest and purest and most
self-sacrificing women in the world; not the
crushed, degraded, ignorant slaves as so falsely
accused by those who love to make a lie. The 
eyes of the world are upon us, watching our
course with a curious interest. There are
thousands of both sexes actively engaged in
misrepresenting us. Let us come boldly to the
front and voice our own sentiments and defend
those principles for which we are willing to
suffer the scorn and ridicule and abuse of the
whole world, being willing to deliver up the
care, protection and companionship of hus-
bands, fathers, brothers and sons, and all the
home comforts and worldly advantages by
which we are so bounteously surrounded, rather
than renounce our belief and practice in that
which God has commanded.
	This warfare for right and liberty of con-
science is not for ourselves alone; it is for our
posterity, and generations yet unborn, who
will revere our names for the independent 
stand we take against tyranny and oppression;
and God; in whose mercy and power alone we
trust, will see that right triumphs, and crown
with eternal life those who have laid all upon
the altar in its defense.
	May the day come when the EXPONENT
shall be as a ministering angel in the family of
every Latter-day Saint, enlarged, improved
and adorned in the habiliments of grace and
beauty.
	Your Friend,


