	EMILY B. SPENCER.

	Henrietta said good by to her kind friends,
and traced her steps homeward.
	In a new light she saw everything and she
rejoiced in all that had been told her. She
expected her mother, brother,and sisters would
be glad to hear her wonderful tidings, that in
these last days God had again spoken, and His
authorized agents were again upon the earth,
but, alas! at the home she was met with pity
and contempt from those that were so dear.
They saw no beauty or truth in the doctrine
that had so delighted her.
	All of their ridicule and arguments were
unavailing to eradicate the good impressions
that she had received.
	She attended the meetings of the Latter-
day Saints and the Spirit of God enlightened
her soul, so that when a day was appointed for
baptism, she was at the river’s side, joy shining
in her face.
	It was a gray, cold December morning when
she stepped into the water, under the arch of
a bridge, and was baptised by an Elder of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
one who had authority to baptise in the name
of the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost
and as he said amen, he plunged her beneath
the water, and she rose to a new life, a new
faith, a new hope, one with a despised sect,had
entered the "wicket gate" and could journey
on to the heavenly City to receive a crown for
a life time of devotion. The baptism was
 over and the little crowd dispersed to their
different homes. Evening came and Henrietta
went to  the confirmation meeting. The
sweet singing and heartfelt prayer were over,
and the Elders laying their hands upon her
had conferred upon her the gift of the Holy
Ghost. That evening was an evening ever to
be remembered. After she had returned home
her heart was so full of joy and thanksgiving
that she felt as if she must pour out her
thoughts in writing a letter to the Elders.
Very seldom had she desired to write, but now
with her mind lit up by the Spirit of the Lord
she sat at her little table, and wrote a letter of
praise and gladness, that she had been privi-
leged to hear and obey the Gospel.
	After her letter was written, she knelt and
prayed,and soon laid down and was fast asleep.


About midnight, she was awakened by a loud
rattling at her door accompanied by a feeling
of terror as if some invisible shape of evil was
approaching. Louder and louder was the
noise until it seemed as if it had reached the
bedside, and the horrid presence was by her.
Intuitively she knew it was the evil one, mad-
dened that she had been baptised,and benumb-
ing her with terror. Then came to her mind
to pray, and as she muttered the name of Jesus
the clanking ceased, the fearfulness left her,
and she felt that she was free from the dire
mysterious influence and that it had vanished.


[Column 1]
DECLINE OF POPULATION IN RU-
