SLANDEROUS REPORTS.

	The Latter-day Saints have ever been the
victims of slander.  From the time of their
existence, as a people, until the present, they
have been made to feel this weapon of cow-
ards.  Very frequently you find whole neigh-
borhoods who believe that our elders who are
sent out to preach the Gospel to them, go out
as spies; any one believing such reports to be
true concerning the Latter-day Saints, mani-
fests a spirit of intense bitterness against them.
And many would consider it doing God’s
justice, to adopt any measure, however unfair
it might be, to suppress “Mormonism.”  When
the Saints were citizens of Ohio, Misouri and
Illinois, the red-right hand of bloody persecu-
tion did all it could to blot them out of exist-
ence.
	They were persecuted and driven from their
comfortable homes, out into the wilderness,
only to meet with the continuance of these
vile reports.  As a consequence of these false
impressions existing, respecting the the Lat-
ter-day Saints, many people are unwilling to
listen to the instructions of our elders, whom
we send to preach the Gospel in their midst.
So bitter are the feelings of men in some
neighbor-hoods,  that  they band together
to drive out traveling elders from their vicinity;
and in some instances, seek their lives.  Slan-
der, has, undoubtedly, caused this state of
affairs.  They who have come into our midst
through self-interest, and a love of popular
applause, have misrepresented us and our in-
stitutions to the world, vilified our characters,
and then have stirred up this bitter feeling
towards us, and fanned the flame of hatred,
until they are provoked to deeds of violence,
because of the slanderous reports in circulation.
We don’t know  how  long this people, who
have been the victims of slander will suffer
from such cruel prejudice; nor do we know
how many will reject the Gospel, because of
these false reports,but of one fact we may be as-
sured—that as the sun rises above the moun-
tains and dispels the mists that have gathered
during the night, so truth will rise and dispel
the sodden clouds of “slander.”
						  HYACINTH.	
   Alpine City, Utah Co., Sept. 2nd.


