RAL MASSACHUSETTS—NO. 1.

	This decline is going on throughout New
England, in portions of New York State and
Ohio, and still other States of the Union. But
there are some advantages in confining our re-
search to a single one, and it is now most con-
venient for me to take as an example that in
which I am residing. Further, Massachusetts 
is regarded as a kind of index State, and so is
looked at to determine somewhat how the ocean
tides of civilization are flowing.
	I have stated that to be a fect which I am
prepared to undertake to prove.
	The fact itself is a startling one, as I shall
try to show in its proper place. 
1. There is a general impression that the
country is being depopulated,while the villages
and the cities are growing larger.
	2. The drift of remark and conversation is
to this effect, whether you listen to the body of
the people or to the observations of travelers,
politicians, philosophers, or otherwise. Anon
you hear the lines;

	"Ill fares the land, to hast'ning ills a prey,
	Where wealth accumulates and men decay;
	Princes and lords may flourish or may fade;
	A breath can make them, as a breath has made:
	But a bold peasantry, their country's pride,
	When once destroyed can never be supplied."

	3. Men accustomed to hold offices in coun-
try towns, in particular, will state how much
larger the vote used to be, and they, or the
school board, will inform one how many dis-
tricts have been dropped and school-houses
closed. Such information is imparted in a way
to indicate that it is painful to the possessor,
and that it will have a melancholy effect upon
the listener. It is understood to be depressing,
instead of animating; a matter of deep regret,
rather than of congratulation.
	4. You may visit one of the older inhabi-
tants, one, perhaps, born in town, and whose
ancestors for several generations lie buried
there, get into conversation with him about
the past and the present of that township, and
he will grow serious, relate how many more
families were used to be in his own and other
neighborhoods circumjacent, how larger the
average household, how much stronger,
healthier and united people thereabouts once
were, he might add, handsomer. He speaks in
the sombre style of an Indian sage standing
on an eminence and describing to his compan-
ion[-] the hills, the vales, the plains which once
belonged to his tribe. 	
	5. Whether the pastor, the sportsman, the
physician, or anyone else is walking or driving
about in one of these towns, he is constantly
meeting, or at little distances, clumps, rows or
circlets of trees that once manifestly sur-
rounded a house, walls and pieces of fence that
quietly bear the same tender testimony, entire
excavations of partly-filled portions of a wall
still standing; in respect to all of which the
exclamation is made, "Another old cellar-
hole!"
	The observer, if at all clairvoyant in the
midst of such scenes, has impressions of van-
ished life, of a departed [--]ilvity, of space de-
serted, now only haunted, and he can [---] un-

[Column 2]
gainly stretches, unsightly distances between
houses, young forest trees growing on old fur-
rows, closed roads and others yet barely open,
almost grown over, which say to him, "I once
was abundantly traveled."
	He will find places where there is energy
and thrift, an attempt to farm according to the
latest ideas; he will also find others, and too
many, where they plow only portions of the
field, skim over a little here and there, are let-
ting buildings, fences and everything else run
down. If he accosts one of these peasants the
response may reveal a nationality not the
primitive New England stock.	
	6. You are distinctly told of a false fear of 
years ago in regard to a supply of wood. It
was thought that the time would come, and
not far distant, when not enough wood would
grow for fuel. At that time forests were felled
to make new fields. Now, although the primi-
tive woods are gone, the tall trees leveled, a
kind of scrubby growth is spreading wider and
wider, and with the increased use of coal the
price of wood is kept down. At the present
time, when woodland is cut over, it is left to
 grow up again. There is tillage land enough
for the diminished and diminishing popula-
tion.
	7. A middle-aged man remembers when,in his
town, at the centre, perchance, there was, for
those days, a large and respectable hotel. The
landlord could afford to provide amply for
man and beast for election days, for weddings,
for sojourners, for parties, and the coming of
the thundering stage. Teachers were examined
there, caucuses held, and sometimes the ordain-
ing council met at that place. There was
plenty of help in and about the buildings, and
all so respectful and ready. The public house
has departed, or dwindled, in many cases, into
a little, miserable rum-selling stand. For the
four and six horses suffices to carry the mail
bags and passenger, should there be one.
	8. A more strangely dreary object can
scarcely lie against the horizon, or confront
your immediate presence,than an unfrequented
church. Yonder is one, and beyond the next
hill is another. They used to have a noble at-
tendance. Preachers, famous in their regions 
at least, officiated in the high pulpits and at
the thronged tables. One or another has given
out and left the field to a rival, not from any
change in conviction, but because the means
became so limited and the attendance so
wretchedly meagre. My best buggy is shining
under a varnish put on in a building which
was once a church. In those very walls,
twenty-five years agone, I used to speak occa-
sionally to a full congregation.
	If I had time to ponder, I could find other
general considerations all pointing their bony
fingers in one direction—that of the caption of
my article. The decline has taken place and
is still going on, as I will bring statistics to at-
test in my next number. 
	The reader will remember that our special
field of view is the famous Bay State. You
would hardly expect to find a better govern-
ment, more gracious institutions, and taken to-
gether, a higher civilization. Our hills break
the cyclones in their formation. We never
have a drouth, such as some countries experi-
ence. Markets are near at hand. The soil is
broken, often rocky; yet back from ocean
sands, never barren. It will produce every
crop the latitude will allow of; is quickly re-
vived, and can not be entirely run out. It
immediately responds to every sort of good
dressing,holds it well, bears the best of grasses,
and has the sweetest of pastures. A farm can
be bought in a good situation for some two
thousand dollars, which will keep ten cows and
the usual proportion of other stock. Why
should such lands be forsaken? We will try
to answer that in the third and closing num-
ber.
