	THE TIMES ARE SIGNIFICANT.

	The great earthquake felt in the east, recently,
and which made such terrible destruction of life
and property in Charleston, has given a warning
alarm to many, and caused much reflection in the
minds of sober thinking people.  That the most
severe shock should have been felt, and the
greatest desolation made in the very place where
the late War of the Rebelion first broke out,
seems a singular coincidence indeed.  The terror
inspired by this catastrophe among the people,
taken as a whole, seems to have made a deeper im-
pression upon them than any event of modern
times, at least in this country, and will, no doubt,
result in awakening many to inquiring and search-
ing after truth and righteousness; and though the
majority will attribute this awful calamity to some
freak of nature, and ignore nature’s God in the
matter, the Latter-day Saints are not ignorant of
the meaning of all these signs and wonders and
manifestations of God’s displeasure and His power.
Great events are transpiring, and great changes
are at the very doors of the nations, whether the
people heed these serious and timely warnings or
not; nevertheless the fact remains, that the prophe-
cies uttered by the servants of God in ancient and
modern times, and as recorded in the Bible, the
Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants
are being fulfilled.
	The people may shut their eyes and close their
ears to the warnings, but in the day of His power
“the Lord shall have them in derision.”  The
Prophet Jeremiah says, speaking of the Latter
days:
	“Behold, a whirlwind of the Lord has gone
forth in fury, even a grievous whirlwind; it shall
fall grievously upon the head of the wicked.” 
	“The anger of the Lord shall not return until
He have executed, and till He have performed the
thoughts of His heart; in the latter days ye shall
consider it perfectly.”
	Is it not easy to comprehend that the whirlwinds
have come? and in several of the States the peo-
ple have already prepared places of refuge, such
as cellars and dugouts, so that when these terrific
winds arise they may take shelter in them, and
perchance escape the fury of the elements.
Isaiah the prophet said:
	“And they shall go into the holes of the rocks,
and into the caves of the earth, for fear of the
Lord, and for the glory of His majesty, when He
ariseth to shake terribly the earth.”
	Already these words are being fulfilled, and
strong men fear and tremble and quail before the
storm, and know not what to do or where to go for
safety and protection.  Theories of all kinds are
being published and circulated to account for these
wars among the elements of nature, and to allay
the superstitions of the ignorant, as the world
terms those who acknowledge that the day of God’s
judgments has come.
	Peter, the apostle, said:  “Judgment must be-
gin at the house of God, and if it first begins at
us, what shall the end be of them that obey not the
Gospel of God?”

[Column 2]
	It is not, therefore, expected that the Latter-day
Saints, or that Zion will escape, but that the Saints
need to be on the watchtower constantly, that they
may not be oyercome, or overtaken unawares, for
“no one knoweth the day nor the hour."  St. Luke
in his Gospel says: “And there shall be signs in
the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars; and
upon the earth distress of nations, with perplexity,
the sea and the waves roaring;
	“Men's hearts are failing them for fear, and for
looking after those things which are coming on the
earth, for the powers of heaven shall be shaken.”
	Those who make a life study of the sciences
would fain make men believe that there is no oc-
casion for alarm, that all will go on without serious
interruption, that there is no programme marked,
out by an Almighty hand; but the Saints know
better, and the Elders and messengers have been
sent forth from time to time to warn the people
and to entreat them to repent of their sins and
hearken unto the Lord.  A lew here and there
have obeyed this warning voice, have even re-
joiced that they were permitted to hear the glad
tidings of salvation brought to them, and have
gathered to Zion to be further instructed in the
ways of the Lord, that they might make prepara-
tion for the day of His coming.
	Not only do the prophecies of the Scripture
point to the events now transpiring, but also the
Book of Mormon and the prophecies of Joseph
Smith recorded in the book of Doctrine and
Covenants, as contained in the revelations of God
to him.  In a revelation given December 27th,
1832,at Kirtland,Ohio,we find corroborative testi-
mony to that of Isaiah and other prophets of the
olden times:
	“And alter your testimony cometh wrath and
indignation upon the people.”
	“For after your testimony cometh the testimony
of earthquakes, that shall cause groanings in the
midst of her, and men shall fall upon the ground
and shall not be able to stand.”
	“And also cometh the testimony of the voice
of thunderings, and the voice of lightnings, and
the voice of tempests, and the waves of the sea
heaving themselves beyond their bounds.”
	Can any one of sane mind say these things are
not being fulfilled?  Surely not!
	Men’s hearts are failing them for fear, and the
running to and fro in the earth is another signifi-
cant fact in connection with many others.  There
is abundance of proof that these things are true,
and those who hearken and obey the voice of the
Lord to His people, and sanctify and purify their
own hearts and lives, sincerely repenting of evil
and of folly, and humbling themselves, may, by
constant devotion and the help of the Holy Spirit,
endure these terrible things that are daily oc-
curring.  But not in their own strength can any
stand, only by relying upon God and obeying His
commandments given through His servants, who
are sat as Shepherds and as Watchmen to take
care of His flock.  Those who study in humility
and prayer the Bible and other books containing
the word of the Lord to His people will find conso-
lation, strength and encouragement for the per-
formance of duties and obligations, and help to
fulfill those of a temporal as well as a spiritual na-
ture, for we have practical work to do, and the
kingdom of God cannot be established upon the
earth without it.  Yet there is no work of any kind
that is not better done when one is in the posses-
sion of the Spirit of God, and in order to keep
that good Spirit, one’s life and works must corres-
pond.  Seek diligently to keep in the strait and
narrow way, and listen for the still small voice
within, while bowing in obedience to the authority
God has set in His Church to preside.  We are
told that, “Obedience is better than sacrifice,”
and the Saints have proved it again and again.
The Lord will take care of his people who are
striving to walk in his paths and will “yet make
 he wrath of man to praise Him,” even as he has

[Column 3]
said, for his words cannot fail of fulfillment.  And
O, how much there is to do, to build up Zion that
she may be established and become glorious;sure-
ly “the harvest is ready but the laborers are few,”
and many seek their own pleasure and aggrandize-
ment.  Evil influences are abroad, and they are
far more dangerous than disease, and not so ap-
parent, they strive to get possession of the body
and thus destroy the soul; and against tempta-
tions and allurements of the adversary the Saints
should watch continually as well as pray and
avoid the insinuations and promptings of the
wicked one, who is ever on the alert to decoy the
unwary, the careless and the indifferent.
	The hand of the Lord is stretched out in judg-
ment, yet will He remember his own in mercy.
He has said "if the righteous barely escape,"
which shows plainly that they must live near to
Him.  Blessed indeed are they who do his bid-
ding and whom, when He cometh,shall have their
lamps trimmed and burning.


