MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	DEAR FRIEND:—I have been thinking to-
day how much I would enjoy a quiet half hour
with you in the office, and a good talk upon
events that have transpired since I bade fare-
well to home and friends for a sojourn amid
the waste places of Zion. Many thoughts and
imaginary scenes pass through my mind as I
go to and fro among the ruins that cover this
land. I feel like I was walking on sacred
ground, fancying, sometimes, that the former
inhabitants were watching us with jealous
eyes. 
	I am pleased to state that the excessive heat,
which has lasted much longer than usual this
season, has cooled down considerably: the
evenings are delightful, and its wilted inhabi-
tants begin to look up and smile again. The
EXPONENT comes regularly, is a welcome
friend, and would be missed very much should
it fail to appear.
	I learn with regret the list for subscribers I
represented so long is growing less. I wonder
if the reason is hard times, or if they are grow-
ing careless in the cause of truth, and blind
to their own best interests? surely the women
of Zion should feel anxious for the success of
the one woman's paper in existence,and spread
it abroad, that the world may hear what we
have to say for ourselves; may learn, if we are
in bondage; we chose the bonds, and do not
ask them to break them for us. The sisters
have thousands of relations and friends in the
world where they might send our paper on
missions of love. It might among many reach
some honest hearts, and, like bread cast upon
the waters, return after many days, bringing
ample reward for the labor and cost of send-
ing. I find it hard to express on paper the
thoughts that come into my head. I think of
Zion now passing through the fire that is to
cleanse and purify her, making her ready for
the coming of her King, and wonder who will
stand, or who will fall. I think of those who
are now bearing the heat of the battle where
the blows strike home, sending our noblest and
best to prison cells, or fugitives from their own
dearly bought homes, leaving aching hearts
and darkened hearthstones, where love and
joy were wont to dwell. I feel that Zion
should be humble, low in the dust, praying for
her deliverance, but, alas, too many are blind
in their mad thirst after the pleasures and
follies of the world and I fear they will awake
too late, that their feasting will be turned to
famine, and their mirth to sorrow.
	I do not think that I can tell you anything
new about the country, as no doubt you have

[Column 2]
seen sisters recently from here, and know pretty
well the condition of affairs. One thing I
will say, as it is in the line of my calling at
present. There are hosts of bright, happy
children here as elsewhere in the settlements
of the Saints, and when I look upon them, I
marvel not that Satan and his minions fear
and tremble that they strive to stay their com-
ing, and plant so many snares for unwary
feet to draw them into by and forbidden paths.
May God protect and shield them from his
power until the hour of Christ's victory cbmes.
		Sincerely your friend,
