	BANNOCK STAKE

	The quarterly conference of the Primary
Association of the Bannock Stake convened in
the Rexburg hall, Aug. 20th, 1886 at 1 p.m.,
Prest. Ella Hinckley presiding.  On the stand
were Prest. Ella Hinckley, Counselors Sarah
A. Barnes, and Sarah E. Ricks and Secretary
Lizzie Rigby also a majority of the Presidents
and officers of the different places, and a num-
ber of the brethren.
	After the opening exercises Prest. Ella
Hinckley addressed the children and officers
upon the duties in the associations, and the
care and training of the children, said they
should be taught to be polite, gentle, kind and
truthful, and they will grow up to be noble
men and women, ornaments in the Kingdom
of God and in society; should be taught while
young to attend to their prayers, and pay
their tithing; encouraged the children to go to
fast meetings for there they could get testi-
monies; gave many instructions that sank deep
into the hearts of the children and all present.
	The Primary Star, a manuscript paper, was
read by Sarah  E.  Ricks; Recitation by
Janie Holman, entitled, Primary address;
Trio by Mamie Conrad, Rhoda Donaldson and
Alice Graham; followed by a Recitation, by
Rhoda Donaldson,  entitled, the ten virgins.
Song by Lilly and Sarah Bell; Question from
the Bible, answered by Francis Rigby; Song
by Robert Archibald; Recitation by Wallace
Jacobs; Song by Ida Stoddard; Bible question
answered by Silas Hinckley; Recitation by
Rhoda Stoddard, after which the minutes of
the different associations were read.
	Sister Sarah A. Barnes gave the children
great credit for their good order and punctual-
ity;  spoke on the necessity of prayer, and
obedience to those placed over them; earnestly
advised the children to thiok what they are
living for, and have an aim in view, and that
aim should be to be saved and exalted in the
Kingdom of God, spoke of the blessings of the
Lord to us as a people, encouraged the chil-
dren to press forward; asked the Lord to bless
all with wisdom and knowledge that they 
might grow up to be noble men and women.
	Sister Sarah E. Ricks said she could feel the
Spirit of the Lord was present; hoped they
would retain the good instructions they had

[Column 3]
received; thought the Primaries were doing a
great work; realized it was a responsible posi-
tion to be placed over the children of Zion.
and those that are placed in position if they
do not fill their calling.  The Lord will hold
them responsible for the same; counseled the
children to use good language and be strictly
honest.
	Brother Troup said he never felt better in a
meeting; thought the Spirit of the Lord had
been with the children; felt to bless them in
their labors, encouraged the children to keep
the “word of wisdom,” and gave some good
advice.
	Brother Hinckley made some good and time-
ly remarks: counseled   the   children  to  be
neat and clean in their persons and make their
homes so also, and to obey those placed over
them, and remember the good instructions they
had received asked the Lord to bless all the
children.
	Prest. Ella Hinckley spoke of the fair that 
is soon to come off.  Conference adjourned for
three  months.  Singing,  "In  our   lovely
Deseret.”  Benediction by Brother Troup.
	ELLA HINCKLEY, Prest.
