MISCELLANEOUS.

	The Sabbath is a gift from heaven to the
laboring man.—Rev. D. King.
	Dress has a moral effect upon the conduct of
mankind.—Sir J. Barrington.
	He who has acquired his wealth unjustly
cannot enjoy it long.—Hesiod.
	The plainer the dress, with greater luster
does beauty appear.—Halifax.
	It has been sait that true religion will make
a man a more thorough gentleman than all
the courts in Europe; and it is true.  You may
see simple laboring men as thorough gentlemen
as any duke, simply because they have learned
to fear God; and fearing Him, to restrain them-
selves, which is the root and essence of all
good breeding.—Kingsley.
	"Love is strong as death; many waters can-
not quench love, neither can the floods drown
it."  And never is this master-principle more
gloriously triumphant than when it is exerted
to reclaim, restore, and purify the wandering
spirit; for wherever there is a heart to be won,
it will be won by kindness; and wherever there
is a spark of virtuous sensibility, it will be
cherished and enkindled by the breath of mild
consideration.—S. Jebb.


In Tarrytown, N. Y., last Tuesday, the
woman's ticket for school committee was
elected by a vote of 96 to 8.
	Miss Maud Banks, daugher of General
Banks, made her first appearance as an actress
on a New England stage, at Portsmouth, N.
H., on Monday evening.
	The mother of Gen. Phil Sheridan is still
hale and hearty, though eighty-seven years old,
and is living at Somerset, Ohio, where her
"boys" visit her every summer.
	James Russell Lowell has purchased a lot
in Ashfield, near the houses of Prof. Charles
Elliott Norton and George William Curtis,
and is expected to build on it soon.


Patents have been issued to women during
the week ending August 10, 1886, as follows:
	Hannah M. Bortree, Madison, Wis., Com-
bined Corset and Garment Supporter.
	Marie D. Bullock, Philadelphia, Penn.,
Game.
	Mary A. Henderson, Clinton, Mo., Coffee-
pot.
	Emma G. Nunn, Vassar, Mich., Adjustable
Handle for Dusters.
	Clara K. Waring, Middletown, N. Y., Port-
able Folding Wardrobe.


