[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | August | Issue: 2 | Title: BEAR LAKE STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

		BEAR LAKE STAKE.

	THE Relief Society Conference of Bear 
Lake Stake convened at St. Charles Idaho
Saturday May 27, 1893, at 10 a. m  Presi-
dent Lindsay presiding.  The choir sang,
"What though the sky be starless,"  prayer
Elder M. Allred.  Singing "When the 
heart is pressed with care." Roll called
and minutes of the former conference read
and approved.  Opening remarks appropri-
ate to the occasion made by Prest. Lindsay. 
	The branches of the society were then
represented as follows, St. Charles Prest.
J. C. Gallaway,  Fish Haven, Frances 
Howell, Bloomington, Sarah Patterson,
Paris, 1st Ward, Margaret Sutton, Mont-
pelier, Prest. Patrea Hogansen.  All were
reported as in good condition.  The statisti-
cal and financial report was then read.
Some very interesting and instructive re-
marks were made by Prest. Lindsay and
Counselor Hart, after which Prest. Lind-
say explained that she was in need of a
corresponding sec'y, and it was moved and
carried that Miss Rose Hillier act as Cor.
Sec. Prest. Annie Laker of the primary
associations made some remarks in which 
she gave good instructions.  Meeting
adjourned by singing, benediction by
Brother Jno. Bagley.
	Sunday 2 p. m. President Lindsay presid-
ing. Singing I'll praise my maker etc.,
prayer by Brother Hart, singing. The 
sacrament was administered and during
its administration the choir sang, "Come
follow me." A few remarks were made by 
Prest. Lindsay, after which three associ-
ations were represented as follows, Ovid,
Sister Carlson, Preston, Miss Addie
Dalrymple.  Paris 2nd Ward by Sister
Collins, who after reporting the associa-
tions made some very interesting and
encouraging remarks. Sister Mary Bagley
spoke a short time, bore a faithful testimony
to the truth of the Gospel.  Prest. Lindsay
spoke of the duty of parents to their
children, and also of the duty of presidents
and of the Relief Society, to the poor and
sick among them, said that she was in 
need of some one to assist her and her
counselors in visiting the different branches
of the Society.  Sister Mary Bagley was
chosen and unanimously sustained to act as
such assistant.
	Prest. James Hart spoke at some length
on the missions of the sisters in our church,
and the object of their organization.  Sisters
Mary Bagley and Rose Hillier were then
set apart to their different callings by Prest.
Hart and Bishop Hunt of St. Charles.
	Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing, "Jerusalem My Glorious Home."
	Benediction by Bishop Hunt.
