DEATH OF A SWEET CHILD.

Dear Aunt Em:
   May I tell your readers about a little girl whose
loving ways and sweet disposition endeared her
to all who became acquainted with her?
   Grace Victoria, daughter of Thomas G. and
Jane Batt Winn, was born of Smithfield, Cache
County, on the 29th of February, 1884. Her
home was in Smithfield until the spring of 1890,
since which time, with her mother and two
brothers, she has lived in Salt Lake City, until
her death, which occurred on the morning of
August 4, 1892.
   Little Grace had been a great sufferer, for more
than a year from the effects of scarlet fever.
These were rheumatism, and then dropsy and
disease of the heart, which rendered her little
life a burden instead of the joyous, happy time
generally known to childhood. Yet she was so
patient, and usually so cheerful that it was very
outching to watch or listen to her.
   Often, she would request those who were
around her to sing for her; and at the time when
her last breath was drawn, they were singing her
favorite hymn, "O! my Father, Thou that
dwellest," she opened her eyes for a moment and
smiled upon her friends, last of all, her mother,
then closed them as if in peaceful sleep.
   She loved her Sunday School and Primary As-
sociation very much, and so won the hearts of
her little associates of the 11th Ward, (where she
had lived most of the time since coming to the
City,) that every attention they could bestow
upon their suffering friend was gladly given by
the little girls. At her funeral, members of the
Primary of the 11th Ward and their President,
Sister Louie Felt, with her Counselors, sang the
sweet hymns of peace and rest Gracie had loved
so much in life. Six of the little girls were also
the pall bearers. The little white coffin was
covered with lovely flowers; one beautiful white
floral pillow, bearing in its center in purple
blossoms, the sweet name, "Gracie," was pre-
sented by the Primary to which she had belonged
and will be preserved as a precious memento by
the sorrowing mother and little brothers.
   The services were conducted by Bishop Robert
Morris of the 11th Ward. Very consoling and in-
structive words were spoken by Elders Wm. W.
Salmon, L. W. Richards, J. H. Felt, E. J. Brooks,
and Bishop Morris. Many friends were in attend-
ance from different wards. At the grave, the
dedicatory prayer was offered by Elder Joseph H.
Felt. Then "O! my Father Thou that dwellest,"
was sung; and ittle Gracie's remains were left to
the sweet repose of the pure and innocent.
