AT HOME AGAIN.

	AFTER an absence of four weeks from our post
of duty, trying to rest and recuperate as well as
visit, we returned home to assume the every day
work of life. Many changes have taken place
during that time some that were very sad; a be-
loved baby grandchild had been called home,
though perfectly well when we went away, and
we were unable to reach here in time to see her
sweet face once more; how little we know when
parting from friends for only a short time what
may transpire ere we meet again. While away
we did not send home sufficient copy to get the
paper of September 15, out on time and therefore
must ask our patrons to forgive the delay. In
our next issue we will publish some notices
which ought to have appeared here, viz: the
death of the venerable and able woman Ernestine
L. Rose and also that of Geo. Wm. Curtis,
another Apostle of the Woman's cause.
	We also hoped to have made some notes of the
work Mr. Edmund Russell is doing in his particu-
lar line in Salt Lake City, of which we were unin-
formed until after our return home; having an-
ticipated his being already in San Francisco,
whither he intends to go about the first of
October. Really there are so many things that
deserve special mention and there is so little
space in a small journal that one cannot do
justice, but we shall hope to make some good
notes for October 1, which will soon be here, and
also the Conference and the Territorial Fair
which brings many people consequently im-
portant news and business to the City.
	The Woman's Department of the World's Fair
have been holding meetings and making some
progress in the work of organizing and distribut-
ing information, circulars etc. Abroad in the
world things do seem to be hurrying on to a cli-
max and events significant of momentous
changes are transpiring. Prophecies of the
Scriptures and of modern prophets are being
rapidly fulfilled so that—"He that runneth may
read."
	The Convention of the Pacific Coast Woman's
Press Association will be held in San Francisco
Sept. 21, 22, and 23. Miss G. L. Brown of this
City has gone there to attend its sessions, we too
had hoped to go but were disappointed at the
last moment, in fact there is too much to do at
home.


