[Column 2]

Utah, I fully agree with our beloved
brother. Concerning the advice to parents
about the training of their daughters, I feel
sure that he will pardon me when I say,
that according to my views, he might with
great propriety have added and their sons.
	That a spirit of extravagance is rife in
our midst I am only too painfully sensible
of! My heart aches, and so I am sure do
those of many other mothers, who see their
children partaking of the spirit of the world
that has come amongst us, which fosters
extravagance, by which means class dis-
tinctions are brought about, and the pass-
port to "good society" would to a sensible,
deep-thinking observer, seem to consist in
the disposition and ability, to spend for
their own self indulgence, the means which
their fathers and mothers have toiled hard
in their younger days to accumulate in
order to have something laid by for old age
and possible infirmity, in the accumulation
of which, they have probably denied them-
selves of every luxury and possibly the
comforts of life.
	And what is "good society" according to
the general acceptation of the term in our
day?
	Well opinions differ upon this point as
well as upon all others, what goes by that
name, by some, might be termed merely
fashionable society. And while one hold-
ing that opinion might be thought by some
not competent to judge, by another equally
as intelligent they might be thought to be
the very best authority, and so it goes, each
judging from his or her own standpoint to
which they have a perfect right.
	For instance, one set of people endowed
with the gifts of wisdom and knowledge,
industry and economy, of truth and virtue,
charity and benevolence, of temperance,
honesty and integrity, and all the refining
elements, which go to make up a noble
character, might consider that a class of
people possessing these qualities might be
called "good society."
	While yet another set, who devotes its
time to a study of the fashion plates, attend-
ing operas, balls, excursions, promenades,
and amusements of any and every kind in
and out of season, willing and seemingly
determined, to spend the means which
others have earned, scorning to perform the
like labors by which others have earned it,
drinking gambling, debauching, leading the
innocent and unwary astray, might consider
that such only could claim the title of "good
society."
	So each class may set up a standard for
itself, and by its influence draw those to
them who are congenial, but it will be like
a pebble cast into a body of water, which
forms its own circle, but whose extent is
limited, another, cast in the same silent
stream, makes a separate one just as dis-
tinct. While wealth is a mighty factor in
moving the machinery, which carries on
the affairs of this world, I think it is very
much over-estimated as a means of bringing
about happiness.
	This representative "young man" whom
we have been quoting, confesses that by
marrying, he would deprive himself of
many of the advantages which he now en-
joys.
	As I before said, I believe this to be the
main spring of the situation! Let us look
a little more closely into the evidence before
us. For whom does the average young lady
dress, and adorn her person, if it is not for
this same young man? does he not generally
seek for the most fashionably dressed young

[Column 3]

lady at the balls, picnics, etc. Does he not
by his own admission, "visit at the houses
of the rich and fashionable," thereby giving
the impression that, that is what suits him?
also giving the young ladies whom he visits
reason to think that it is "their sweet society"
which he craves, and what more natural
than for them to imagine him to be in love,
and that he wishes to secure love in return
for all time. Are they not justified in
thinking, that if he prefered another's
society than their own, he would seek it?
	As custom, controls in these matters, and
men are free to seek whom they will,
would it not be easy for a man who oc-
cupies a position yeilding only a moderate
salary, to find among the many overworked
women of his world, one whom he could
love for her good qualities, and perhaps
equally as pretty face, fine talents, aud en-
gaging manners as her more fortunate
sister under cultivation, (which he might
be the means of assisting, when she became
his wife) that the world might be better for
his having lived in it.
	When a man confesses, that he dilly
dally's around the rich and fashionable who
would not make him welcome, if he were
not their equal in fortune, he confesses to
about the same kind of a weakness, which
a girl displays when she indulges in ex-
travagance in order to catch him, only to
find that she is blamed for his disinclination
to marry on account of her extravagance.
I am of the opinion that the stock repre-
sented by the aforementioned "young man"
may as well be allowed to run out. There
is already too many of him; and marriages
entered into with such men, generally end
in the Divorce Court.
	But to come to our own children. If
they could be converted to the Gospel, they
would marry.
	Marriage is an institution of so sacred a
nature that it should not be lightly entered
into, and unless young people view it also
in that light, it had better not be under-
taken. It seems to me that the most fre-
quent cause of divorce, lies in the careless-
ness with which people now-a-days enter
into the matrimonial state, either on the
part of one, or both, of the contracting
parties. If a man looks upon marriage as
a divine command, he will be looking for a
whole-souled woman to link her destiny
with his, and if he is worthy of that kind of
a woman he will be preparing to take care
of her and her children.
	But if he is like a great many of the
young men among us today, our sons, who
cannot keep out of debt on a steady salary
of $2.00 per day with no one but them-
selves to keep, a young lady would display
a great deal of courage (my first thought
but I think recklessness a more suitable
term) to join forces with and attempt to
bear and rear a family by such a man, even
if she should get the chance.
	How many of our young ladies today are
working in factories, in families, in stores,
in schools, in dressmaking and millinery
stores, in printing offices, in lawyers offices,
house cleaning, washing and ironing, hair-
dressing, as telephone and telegraph operat-
ers, typewriters, nurses, doctors, lawyers,
and in numerous ways earning their living,
and bid fair from all appearance, to go to their
graves unwed, while the young man with
nearly always a salary double the size of
theirs; and if he is in some professions, three
or four times as large, cannot keep out of
debt and afford to marry.
	As I said before, when our young people


[column 1]
﻿receive the Gospel, they will marry! When
they have learned that in this, the most
important event of their lives they require
the light of the Holy Spirit to guide them,
and humbly come before our Father, will-
ing to be guided, realizing that unions here
should reach into eternity, and proving
their faith by their works, there will no
worldly considerations enter into their cal-
culations upon this subject. But! what is
the mind and will of the Lord? Father
guide me to the one, with whom I can
journey in unity and love, through time
and all eternity.
	Why should people marry, unless they
marry in this spirit? To multiply their
species? To what end? That their offspring
may be destroyed when ripe in iniquity?
When "the sins of the fathers shall be
visited upon the children to the third and
fourth generation?” For has not God re-
vealed in this day and age in which we live,
that he will utterly destroy from off this
land, those who will not serve him and
keep his commandments?
	Our beloved brother further says: “Al-
ready some mothers are indulging in the
fear, and almost seem ready to justify them-
selves in the thought, that if their girls
marry they must go outside of the Church
to find husbands.’’
	“The indulgence in such a thought pre-
pares the way for such a result to be brought
about.”
	My opinion upon this point is, that no
girl who is a Latter-day Saint at heart, and
realizes the position in which she stands,
can for one moment entertain such an idea
as giving herself in marriage to a Gentile!
Indeed it would manifest a weakness, and
a lack of moral courage, which any well-
balanced, Latter-day Saint young lady
would be ashamed of. For if she had any
leaning that way, she would not dare, if
she understood things correctly, descend
from her high position as a Saint of the
most high God, to unite herself with one
who ignores Him! though millions were the
tempting bait.
	My opinion differs considerably from the
young man whom I have before quoted:
“who could not ask a girl to step down and
occupy an inferior position.’’ I think that
though a girl be accustomed to all the luxur-
es which wealth can procure,that when she
is united to a good and noble man, though
he be poor, she is exalted thereby, to an
extent to which she never can attain alone,
then how much more is she raised in the
scale of exaltation by becoming united to
one endowed with the Holy Priesthood;
with its wondrous powers and privileges
which she shares in connection with him.
She steps up from the groveling things of
this earth, and grasps the wealth of the
Gods! Gold is the power of this world.
The Priesthood is the power by which
worlds were formed and created, we have
it; and are the richest people upon the face
of the earth, though we were clothed in
rags! Now as to the mothers who “almost
seem ready to justify themselves in the
thought, that if their girls marry they must
go outside of the Church to find husbands.”
What a sacrifice they are willing to make!
When they left home, father, mother, all
their kindred in many instances; the graves
of their ancestors, and all they held dear in
this world, for the Gospel’s sake and the
hope of eternal life which it held out to
them in that hour, what would they have
said to one who would have tempted them
to have given up their principles for wealth
