[Column 2]

declare my conviction that justice and fair deal-
ing, and the democratic principles of our govern-
ment, demand equal rights and privileges of
citizenship, irrespective of sex. I have not been
able to see any good reasons for denying the
ballot to women."
	Here is another very forcible expression of Mr.
Whittier's on this subject. "A prophecy of your
triumph at no distant day is in the air; your op-
ponents feel it and believe it. They know that
yours is a gaining and theirs a losing cause.
You can afford in your consciousness of right to
be as calm and courteous as the Archangel
Michael, who we are told in Scripture, in his
controversy with Satan himself, did not bring a
railing accusation against him."
	Although the death of this illustrious poet,
patriot and Christian casts a shadow over those
who loved him, yet his death was simply beauti-
ful. The passing from this dark and benighted
world into the light of eternal day, with such a
record as he had made must have been a triumph.
	It was our good fortune in the winter of 1886 to
meet the venerable gentleman and poet Mr.
Whittier at his own, old home in Amesbury.
Some interesting items of that visit were pub-
lished in the EXPONENT after our return home,
but we have never felt that we could give expres-
sion in words to the enjoyment of that day.
	We conversed together like familiar friends.
It was a very cold wintry day, the wind blew
fiecely outside, and no other visitors ventured
out, therefore there was a better opportunity for
talking. Mr. Whittier informed the writer it was
the first time he had seen a "Mormon" woman,
and he seemed to take a special interest in in-
quiring concerning our faith and practises, in the
most kindly manner. We talked of woman suf-
frage and he expressed then and there his im-
plicit faith in the principle of equality of sex.
Poets and poetry were topics alluded to and he
asked several questions regarding some of
our writers of whom he had heard notably
Eliza R. Snow and Parley P. Pratt. Very deli-
cately he put the question 'And have I not heard
that you sometimes write verses as well as edit a
paper?" The question led us farther on and on
and finally when about to say good-bye after he
had given a picture of his room and one or two
other remembrances, he so insisted on our re-
maining and dining with him that it would have
been positively rude to refuse.
	His voice was sympathetic, his manner courtly
and tender, his words well-chosen and impres-
sive Altogether he was decidedly charming in
appearance and bearing.
	Among the precious relics stored away by the
writer is a letter from this renowned author and
poet which is to be carefully preserved and
handed down to our children and grand-children.
	With the name and fame of the poet Whittier
are associated many illustrious heroes of the
time, nearly all of whom went on before him.
Wm. Lloyd Garrison, Wendell Phillips, James
Russell Lowell, Lucretia Mott and only re-
cently George William Curtis, and Ernstine L.
Rose. The three during this month were
George William Curtis, John G. Whittier and
Ernstine L. Rose.
	Oliver Wendell Holmes for so many years his
true and well-tried friend must feel bereft in-
deed. Among this class of men who have not
been mentioned here one remembers of the de-
parted N. P. Willis, Bayard Taylor, Walt Whit-
man, Henry Ward Beecher and others, gone
but not forgotten.
	The following poem was written by Mr. Whit-
tier a very short time before his death to his dear
and life-long friend Oliver Wendell Holmes.

Among the thousands who with hail and cheer
	Will welcome thy new year,
How few of all have passed, as thou and I,
	So many milestones by!


We have grown old together; we have seen,
Our youth and age between.
Two generations leave us, and today
We with the third hold way.
Loving and loved. If thought must backward
run
To those who, one by one,
in the great silence and the dark beyond
Vanished with farewells fond,
Unseen, not lost; our grateful memories still
Their vacant places fill.
And, with the full-voiced greeting of new friends,
A tenderer whisper blends.
Linked close in a pathetic brotherhood
Of mingled ill and good,
Of joy and grief, of grandeur and of shame,
For pity more than blame—
The gift is thine the weary world to make
More cheerful for thy sake,
Soothing the ears its Miserere pains,
With the old Hellenic strains.
Lighting the sullen face of discontent
With smiles for blessings sent.
Enough of selfish wailing has been had,
Thank God! for notes more glad.
Life is indeed no holiday; therein
Are want, and woe, and sin,
Death and its nameless fears, and over all
Our pitying tears must fall.
Thy hand, old friend! the service of our days,
in differing moods and ways,
May prove to those who follow in our train
Not valueless nor vain.
Far off, and faint as echoes of a dream,
The songs of boyhood seem,
Yet on our autumn boughs, unflown with spring,
The evening thrushes sing.
The hour draws near, howe’er delayed and late,
When at the Eternal Gate
We leave the words and works we call our own, 
And lift void hands alone
For love to fill. Our nakedness of soul
Brings to that Gate no toll;
Giftless we come to him, who all things gives,
And live because He lives.
—Atlantic Monthly, for September.


