[Column 2]

elections, spending a lot of money to get
some one into office so as to keep up with
the rest of the world," he believed in the
old feudal times of the Barons when every
man's castle was his stronghold, and he was
master by right of his inheritance."
	"He lived up to that as well as he could
in those times, methinks; but, honor bright
cousin mine, its all wrong this discrimi-
nation against our sex, we ought to have
the same rights as our brothers; but we
must dress to dance with the guests of the
fete in honor of the new master, whatever
dislike we may have to the reverent com-
pany," and so the colloquy ended for the
time being. The hours sped gaily notwith-
standing, the great variety of costumes
and colors, the quaint and uncouth manners
of the country people gave merriment to
the festivities, and the young ladies were
highly amused, and danced and laughed
and forgot their weariness and ill-humor in
the general hilarity.
	Even stately Jane Conway grew more
genial under the influence of the music, and
her old bachelor lover felt quite at ease in
the warmth of her smiles, though not a
loving word passed between them until the
time for departure, which was very late, the
great clock of the castle had long since
sounded the midnight hour, and in crowds
the guests were leaving, when, drawing
Miss Conway aside, her lover whispered in
her ear, "tomorrow I shall be here early,
and now my best beloved, Good-night," and
he pressed her hand warmly.
	The guests were all gone, the lights were
extinguished, Clair and Anna had retired,
everything was quiet only Jane Conway
restless and dissatisfied with herself, paced
up and down her room fretting like a caged
bird, beating against its bars. "Tomorrow
he will come and what does my heart say?
That I would rather a thousand times live
out this poor life alone, than be united to
one I cannot love unreasonable, and yet he
is so noble and so true, why not make this
sacrifice of self for his happiness? he
deserves it from me, and I can devote my
whole life to him, would it be right? I know
not. No man in the wide, wide world will
ever care for me perchance as he does, and
I dread the future. Anna will marry soon
and go to her own home; in time Clair will
bring to the old homestead a fitting bride,
and I should be a pensioner, as it were in
my late uncle's domain. No! I shall not,
will keep my troth, I am resolved, come
what may," and she threw off her apparel
hastily and jumped into bed as though
afraid to meditate longer. Once sound
asleep after the fatigue and worry of the
day, she dreamed such a dream as one sel-
dom forgets.
	"She was in a strange land, everything
was rude and primitive, she was dressed in
dead black from head to foot, and stood in
the midst of a crowd feeling utterly alone;
she gazed afar off and saw the great bound-
less ocean heaving and surging, and she
heard the sobbing and moaning of the sad,
sea waves as she had often heard it when a
child. She strained her eyes in the distance,
and discoverd afar off a speck in the dim
horizon or on the great sea waves; the
others seemed to be all going in the same
direction: she felt her hand grasped with a
warm clasp and, looking down, saw a little
boy, fair haired and sunny-hued, his golden
curls streaming over his velvet collar, he
too was all in black, and her heart smote
within her as if some terrible calamity had
befallen her. She gazed athwart the sea

[Column 3]

again and nearer came the speck dancing
as it were upon the distant waves. The
noise of the crowd upon the shore seemed
shrill and cruel in her ears and she tighten-
ed her hold upon the child's hand, who
looked lovingly into her face and uncon-
sciously she exclaimed "so like Dr. Bland,"
and the boy wept; but she shed no tears,
nor did she try to soothe him, but gazed afar
until the deafening shouts, went up from
the landsmen "ship ahoy! see she comes
this way!" and then she turned and hurried
inland; mechanically along a winding path
till she came upon a cluster of hamlets in
the deep forests unlike any she had ever
seen, rougher and heavier built, one or two
women met her on the way, they were go-
ing towards the seashore, and they spoke
pityingly, but she passed on not heeding
them; all the time the cries and shouts of
the people on the beach were sounding in
her ears, and echoing back from among the
green woods; the child turned often to look
backward, but she kept on her way and en-
tered the low doorway of one of the rude
cabins seemingly to rest for she felt very
weary; the child begged her to go back to
the shore to see the ship, and finally she
rose and followed the little child, who hast-
ened towards the sea; the people nodded
pleasantly and some saluted her gallantly,
one or two dark-skinned and warrior-like
in stature and equipments, such as she
never remembered having seen before, spoke
kindly and patted the lad's head, though
their faces were painted and they were be-
decked with feathers, beads and the fur of
animals; she recalled having read of such
people in the old, old books; she must have
lingered long away in that hut in the forest
she thought, for the ship had landed, and
putting up her hand to shade her eyes, for
she was dazzled, she saw coming ashore,
and questioning the by-standers as he came
Rob Harrison; but he was much older,
though she knew him at a glance, and
blushing she turned to fly from him, but
the boy was not at her side and she felt she
must not lose him; while she hesitated, the
stranger had overtaken her,and without ask-
ing, kissed her there upon the highway,
the crowd bustling around them; the boy
was there too and when the man found ut-
terance he said, "where is my cousin An-
na?" So shocked was she to hear a familiar
voice among strangers, that she woke,
dreaming that she was sobbing upon the
bosom of this strange man from whom she
had been so many years separated; the great
clock was striking and her own maid stand-
ing over her in bewilderment, for she was
really sobbing in her sleep.


