[Column 2]

and laugh and discuss politics, or the live ques-
tion of the recent Strikes as though they were
traversing the safest route in the world.
	Talking of Strikes reminds the writer of the
present status of the troubles and the conditions
as existing on the ground, the U. S. Soldiers and
officers who have been ordered to the scene of
the late riot and who they are etc. The com-
panies were called from Ft. Keogh, Ft. Sherman,
Missoula, Spokane and Vancouver, and among
them were some officers who had been stationed
at Ft. Douglas in days gone by, and knew Utah
and some of her people well.
	We met in Wallace, Captain W. W. Mc'Cam-
mon a most polished gentleman and with
scholarly attainments, who remembered dis-
tinctly Bishop John Sharp, Captain Hooper,
Horace S. Eldredge, Esquire, the Hon. Wm.
Jennings and other leading men, and spoke kind-
ly of old friends and acquaintances in Salt Lake
City, asked particularly after Mrs. Jennings and
the daughters, also the Hooper girls and some
others. Leiut. Patterson was another of the
officers who had pleasant recollections of Salt
Lake City, and we met also two or three young
Leiutenants who recently entered the service at
Vancouver, and Ft. Sherman who knew one of
our boys now at West Point, "Brie," Briant S.
Wells. The ladies at Wallace have taken con-
siderable pride in entertaining the military, and
have we believe made their sojourn less tedious
at any rate than it would otherwise have been.
	Of the camp at Wallace and the hospitable
people we will have more to say later on, but in
this article we were describing the stage line to
Murray and the appearance of the country, which
is very like in many respects, dear old New Eng-
land, the pine woods are just as fragrant, and the
hemlock boughs as gracefully drooping, and the
ferns very similar, though the mountains are
higher and the newness of the whole, strikes one
as entirely at variance with the well-worn roads,
and hard trodden pathways, through the Eastern
woods. Then again the miners cabins and min-
ing tunnels are totally unlike anything in the
East; how men have the courage and diligence
to drill the solid rock as they do in these places
and invent ways and means and put in machinery,
blast and drill in these mountain regions, and
bring to the surface the silver and gold in such
rich quantities, is indeed wonderful. A great
deal of precious metal has been taken from this
part of the country known as the Coeur D'Alene's
and still the miners are prospecting and delving
into the mountain sides, and the supply seems to
be sufficient to keep a large number of men con-
stantly employed at a fair per centage for their
labor.
	To say the scenery is grandly picturesque does
not half express its beauty and therefore we
leave it to the imagination, and content ourselves
with telling some features of the landscape, and
the sentiment of lofty grandeur it inspires.
	After passing some way side towns and an at-
tempt at farming here and there, in a turn of the
road to your right is Carbon Centre; this place is
named we believe for a prospect of carbon which
proved false, but more generally known as "Kitty
Kavanagh ranch." There is a log house, com-
fortable looking, a barn and shed etc., a sort of
clearing, in what has the appearance of a strip of
meadow; a garden and field well tilled, cows,
pigs and chickens, horses too, we were told, and
the owner and proprietor who has established
herself in this lonely place and actually made
these improvements is a youngish unmarried
woman. She was born in Ireland, but has taken
out naturalization papers in Idaho and holds
legal possession of her property; knows how to
defend herself in her castle in the woods, and is
not afraid of anything. She owns some mines
too, that she has discovered herself, and works
sufficiently to hold them securely.


[Column 1]
Think of prohibiting a woman, with such pluck
energy and ability to maintain herself in the
heart of a wilderness, from being a full-fledged
citizen even to the franchise. She buys and sells
sows and reaps, plants and gathers her own
sheaves of wheat and of corn, raises her potatoes,
works her own mines, pays her taxes the same as
any man would do, but has not the legal right to
say who shall make the assessments on her
property, or what disposal shall be made of the
accumulation of taxes from her hardly earned
property. Such a woman it would seem in
justice to her courage, prudence and economy,
should have due consideration for the example
she has given to men in that locality. Her place
is a picture, a pastoral scene in the great wilder-
ness mountain country, we saw her one morning
standing near her cabin, clad in garments such as
another woman might wear, white basque, and
skirt of some brown material, feeding her brood
of chickens, and this little incident in itself having
heard something of her strange surroundings and
past history, gave a certain charm to the whole
affair, that was like an ancient tale, and our
thoughts went back to Hagar in the desert, and
we felt how much women had risen in dignity
and self-help since that day.
   A pretty romance containing much truth, and
delineation of character might be woven out of
this wonderful and mysterious character, who has
crossed the great ocean and the wide expanse of
land from the broad Atlantic into the Rocky
mountains and further still the land bordering on
or near the Pacific, plunged into the very depths
of the wilderness where bears, wolves, coyotes,
and savages abound, apparently without fear,
trusting perchance, or it may be rebellious and
defiant, who knoweth? Here is a problem to be
solved, a woman capable of living isolated from
human society, in voluntary solitude, apart from
the world, such an one must be a rare type, an
anomaly. It would be a pity if she should die, with-
out its being known,what has caused this peculiar
and unusual mode of life. She looks like other
women, she talks well, is kind-hearted, gives food
and shelter to the weary traveler and wayfarer,
when he is hungry or benighted; is somewhat
shrewd in the management of her property and
estate. She has undoubtedly deliberately chosen
this sort of life.
   One finds many things in this wild mountain
country widely different from the ideas previously
entertained. For instance one is apt to think,
that the people living so far removed from large
cities would be uncouth in manner, and not
versed in the etiquette of society of modern
times, in fact ignorant and uneducated for the
main part. Travelers and visitors here however,
soon find to their astonishment, that many of the
people gathered into these vales in the moun-
tains, are people of refinement and culture; they
have come here for health or for wealth, and
sometimes, linger because they love the country
and the associations they have formed here.
Hospitable to a degree unsurpassed in any lo-
cality,punctilious in respect to the little amenities
and courtesies of life.
Murray is no quite so flourishing apparently
as when we were here three years ago, but we
found some of the same people who were so pro-
fuse in their attentions then, still living here and
others had gone, some changes in family rela-
tions that were sad and surprising, but the beauty
of the pines and woodland walks was unchanged.
The pines murmured and sighed as sweetly and
pathetically as ever, and the nooks and dells in
the deep recesses or ravines, were as romantic
and fairy like. The shrubbery that gave the
most gorgeous effect to the scenery was the
beautiful mountain ash laden with great clusters
of scarlet berries, and these were set off and con-
trasted by the gracefully bending elderberry
bushes, that drooped laden with rich clusters of

