[Column 2]

could have detected the embarrassment she
really felt.
	"The feast is spread, the servants in
holiday attire and the gateways festooned
with trailing evergreens from the park, and
you will be welcomed in the most courtly
manner; a few of the neighbors have been
invited to welcome home the young master
of Hilliard Castle and estates," said the
Doctor, after the first salutations were over.
	"I was in hopes our home-coming would
have been with out parade or demonstration
after so long an absence," replied Miss Con-
way.
	"It would have been impossible after the
message sent down by Burke and Hemen-
way that Mr. Hilliard was to take formal
possession in place of his father, and the
Rector himself has been invited, so you see
it becomes a duty of the nobility he repre-
sents to have some formality, in order to
give a sort of legality to the affair, and
really the gathering is very small compared
to the wealth and rank of the young heir.
It shall be made as light as possible for you,
Lady Anna will be expected to show her-
self equal to the honors, but the principal
thing will be to make the right impression
upon all present, and especially the old re-
tainers and tenantry who are critical on
these customs and usages at festive cere-
monies."
	"We must have time to change our
traveling dresses for dinner costume, after
responding to the salutations outside, my
good Doctor," said Lady Anna.
	"As to that you are the best judges, I see
nothing amiss, your maids will attend to
the dressing, whatever an old fellow like
me might have to say. I see you have a
new attendant, and the Doctor bowed po-
litely to the pretty French maid who rode
with them to be near when wanted. The
coach drew up to the wide massive door-
way and the ponderous oak doors were un-
bolted with great ceremony and there stood
in state, not only the porter and attendants
but the late Baronet's solicitors Burke and
Hemenway, whom the in-coming party had
supposed were at their office in London; the
young Baronet was almost carried off his
feet, and so little did he know of the
strange proceedings that he was scarcely
coherent in his replies. The young Lady
did much better, and Miss Conway whose
part in the involuntary program came last
was so reserved, only bowing, nodding and
smiling that she quite awed the crowd of
enthusiastic admirers, who thronged the
hall and outer landing.
	"How handsome the young heir has
grown, what a magnificent figure and bear-
ing he has! A charming foreign accent and
wonderful eyes! He'll set the whole
country wild!" These and many other
similar exclamations from the crowd were
heard as they passed along, as well as favor-
able comments upon Lady Anna's figure
and appearance, "so like her mother,"
some were remarking, "the same delicate
features, and heavenly eyes;" finally the
girls reached the apartment made ready for
them, where warm wood fires and pale yel-
low lights cast gloomy shadows in the dark


[Column 1]

﻿rooms; and a shiver of nervous fear ran
through Lady Anna as she recalled the
scenes that had transpired of late, and she
could not avoid saying aloud "what a home
coming this is." Her maid caught the re-
mark and began praising everything, tell-
ing her she must not indulge in idle fancies,
but hurry up with the preparations and
consider what to wear on such an auspicious
occasion.
	"The most elegant and decidedly plain
dinner dress I have in my wardrobe," said
Lady Anna with a positive tone that made
Marie look up in amazement, but she yield-
ed the point, though she had prided her-
self on having her resemble a fairy queen
in crepe and pearls which best suited her
style-
	The great bell rang announcing the ban-
quet and Clair was on hand to escort his
sister, the Doctor waited impatiently for
his fiance, for he had not been alone with
her yet; he took her arm in his and led her
aside for a moment; with the calmness of a
saint at the altar of sacrifice she received
his tender embraces, and he was too much
wrought upon to notice her coldness, and
attributed her silence to the excitement and
the importance of the responsibility which
was pending. He was so certain of the
prize he had won that no doubt of its slip-
ping away from him ever entered his head.
	The dinner was a tedious affair as such
feasts generally are, everything was on such
a large scale, and Clair unaccustomed to
presiding at table for the small family of
three, would have been lost without Dr.
Bland's efficient help, who lightened his
task (for such it was) in every conceivable
way.
	Clair had been informed when he first ar-
rived that there would be dancing later on,
a thing unknown in that place, in fact no
one present could recall such an event never
at any time during the recollection of the
guests assembled now, so said one after
another.
	"There is no help for it" said Anna to
her consin, "we must dress again, though
I'm dead tired, and don't want to dance
with these country bumpkins, Clair and the
Doctor are the only good partners, and I
want to go to bed, after such a jaunt and all
this fuss and flurry. Clair is welcome to
all the honors, and I shall not dispute any
claim, and therefore he should do all the
honors, and excuse me from any 'part or
parcel' in the matter; which seems to be
wholly for his glorification."
"O, as to that" replied her cousin, "it is"
pretty evenly divided between you, bnt save
for the fact of his masculinity my opinion
is, we never should have heard of his ex-
istence."
	Anna looked as if she but half compre-
hended the insinuation but said, "Clair is
older and seniority counts a great deal
among the English nobility, it might have
been more unpleasant for me, had he not
been a boy, with those bewitching eyes of
his; I'm glad its no worse, and really what
makes you say we should never have heard
of the heir if he had not been a boy."
"Because it is a stubborn fact of which I am
fully assured; have you not observed in the
course of your short life the deference paid
to men of title in contra-distinction to wo-
men of rank who were far more deserv-
ing."
	"O, but its so different with us, we're of
very little consequence until we're married,
we have no prospect of public trust as papa
used to say, "all this bosh and humbug of

