BABY ELEANOR.
	SAD indeed is the sudden death of a little child
even though all know who read the Scriptures
aright that “Of such is the kingdom of heaven.”
Fair and sweet and beautiful was the little
darling of whom we write. Intelligent beyond her
age, sprightly in every action, winning and attrac-


tive in manner and expression, she was endeared
to all and had entwined herself so closely about
the hearts of her parents and little brothers and
sisters, that her departure must indeed leave an
aching void in the previously complete and happy
household.
‘‘There is no flock, however watched and tended,
But one dead lamb is there!
There is no fireside, howsoe’er defended,
But has one vacant chair.”
	Eleanor Adey Cannon, infant daughter of John
Q. and Annie Wells Cannon, was born in Ogden,
January 24, 1891, and died at the family residence
there August 29, 1892 at the age of one year,
seven months and five days.
	The little one’s illness which was pronounced
cerebral spinal menengetis only lasted two days
and on the morning of the third about seven
o’clock she fell asleep to waken no more until
the resurrection morn. The father, mother and
little brothers and sisters were with the dying
babe who breathed her last in the fond mother’s
arms. Never was a little one more tenderly be-
loved; all that love and constant care and atten-
tion could bestow she received during her brief
stay here. But God knew best and “He giveth
and He taketh away.”
	Friends were near with kind words and loving
hearts to do all in their power for those so sorely
bereaved. Gifts of flowers brought with tender
messages and everything that affection could
suggest.
	Wednesday morning August 31, the immediate
family with relatives and friends,bringing the little
casket with them came to this City in a special 
car; at the depot here they were met by Presi-
dent George Q. Cannon and the other relatives
of both families, Cannon and Wells, and the pro-
cession proceeded to the cemetery, where the
funeral services were held in the open air.
Apostle Abraham H. Cannon having charge. A
quartette of young men led by J. D. Spencer sang
		“I need thee every hour,” etc.
After the singing which was heavenly, Bishop O.
F. Whitney made appropriate remarks express-
ing tenderest sympathy for the sorrowing rela-
tives and eloquently portraying the light and 
glory of the life beyond.
	The quartette then rendered the beautiful
hymn,
		“Shall we meet beyond the river” etc.
	Apostle Abraham H. Cannon tendered thanks
to all who had been helpful and kind during this
time of grief and affliction, and President Joseph
E. Taylor offered up a fervent prayer dedicating
and consecrating the ground,then the white casket
containing the body of little Eleanor was laid in 
the grave.
	The floral offerings were numerous and of the
choicest varieties of flowers, and beautifully ar-
ranged, in almost every form, stars, wreaths,
crosses, baskets, pillows, gates ajar, bouquets
and loose flowers, not a single spot that was not
covered with these emblems of purity.
Sweetly sleep thou little darling,
Angels sing thy lullaby,
Gentle vespers softly breathing
Of the sweeter bye and bye.


[Column 1]

