[Column 2]
reports from the different branches of the 
Society in the Stake. 
Counselor M. B. Heywood of Panguitch 
was sorry the President was unable to at-
tend through sickness, so it became her
duty to represent the Society hoped to be 
able to do it truthfully and satisfactorily,
could say that the Society was alive and do-
ing a little, out of one hundred and fifteen 
names enrolled had an average attendance 
of about twenty, just a few who kept the
Society along, felt that there was a good 
spirit among the sisters and that the Society 
was a blessing.
   Sister Heaps of Escalanta reported their 
Society in a very fair condition, was pleased 
to meet with the sisters again, as it was six-
teen years since she moved away. 
Sister Isabella King reported the King-
ston, had but eight members, consequently 
did but little, still felt blessed in being or-
ganized. 
Sister Ruby reported Circle Ville, had 
thirty members enrolled and an average at-
tendance of eight, sometimes felt almost
discouraged in trying to keep up the meet-
ings. 
   Sister Esther King reported Marion, had 
thirty members enrolled, but were badly 
scattered, mostly living on ranches, all 
seemed to feel well and willing to attend 
when possible.
   Sister Elizabeth Howard of Salt Lake 
City was introduced and addressed the con-
ference, regretted that we had not convened
in the Tabernacle owing to the heat and 
crowded room. Hoped every sister repeated 
in her heart the opening prayer, found 
things here about the same as elsewhere, 
said why was it the sisters in Zion would 
neglect their meetings, instructed the teach-
ers upon their duties, and advised them to 
go in humble prayer before going out to 
teach. Spoke at some length upon that 
and other subjects. 
Sister Della Eardley of Salt Lake City,
was next introduced as a representative 
from the Y. L. M. I. A. began her remarks 
by reading the second Hymn, spoke upon 
the subject of prayer; and the record 
we make each day, should study and emu-
late the lives of all great and good men and
women.
   Counselor Sarah P. Crosby spoke a few 
words in explanation of our conference be-
coming annual instead of quarterly as else-
where. Singing, prayer by A. Reding. 
   2 p. m., Sisters convened in the Taber-
nacle, hymn sang "Oh, my Father," 
Prayer by Haden W. Church. Singing 
"Praise ye the Lord." 
Sister Pinney reported the Georgetown 
Society, Sister Lafevre the Cleveland both 
in about the same condition as other
branches.
   Sister Eardley again addressed the con-
ference, spoke at some length upon the evils 
of Sabbath breaking, the word of wisdom,
and the government of children.
   Sister Howard followed with excellent 
instructions on different subjects, referred to 
many evils indulged in by our young people,
one of which was excessive waltzing con-
trary to counsel. Tendered Sister Zina's 
love to the sisters and solicited their faith
and prayers in her behalf, closed with a few 
words in behalf of the EXPONENT and 
Deseret Hospital. 
President J. W. Crosby also spoke of the
evils of Sabbath breaking, and thought the 
sisters in Zion were living their religion 
better than the men.
   President Barbara Myers endorsed what


had been said, and thanked all the sisters
who had come to attend this conference.
Announced a meeting for the Primary
Thursday afternoon.
	Mary Sevy gave notice that the Young
Ladies would meet at 8 o'clock. Hymn
sang "The Spirit of God," benediction by
President J. W. Crosby.

