[column 2]
with a man of the world attached? has the
glitter of gold so blinded them that they
have lost sight of the greater riches of
eternity, if so, then no wonder that their
daughters wander away. If our children
are self-willed and will not be controlled
and we do our duty by them by precept and
example, then our skirts are clear of their
blood; but woe unto us as parents if we do
not our duty; we may revel in luxury, and
pass the time away in idle frivolity and in
pandering to the ways of the world, but the
day of reckoning will come, and God will
require of us the jewels committed to our
care, and woe unto us if we have betrayed
the trust.
	I will close my article with a few words
to the daughters of Zion. Preserve your-
selves in purity from the contaminating in-
fluences of the world, and above all, as I
said in an article which I wrote upon the
subject some years ago, and which I now
reiterate, “make yourselves worthy of the
best and noblest of men and resolve to ac-
cept no other’’ no matter what his social or
financial condition in life, favorable or
otherwise, they will only endure for time,
but see that he possesses those qualities that
will elevate him to the position of an exal-
tation in the celestial kingdom,and you cul-
tivate those qualities that will exalt you to
a place by his side, then you will have
taken a step toward the high destiny to
which you are entitled by being born in
Zion,in the New and Everlasting Covenant
of the Gospel, and if in the providence of
God our Heavenly Father, you may have
to wash for a living, be sure it will not de-
grade you! honest labor can never do that.
What wealth could our elder brother boast
of while he sojourned here upon the earth?
Did He not say, “The foxes have holes, the
birds of the air have nests, but the Son of
Man hath not where to lay his head,” and
are we better than He?
	We have to be tried in all things, that we
may know for ourselves the bitter as well
as the sweet, and hold all things at their
true value; then let us labor to “lay up
treasures in heaven, where moth and rust
doth not corrupt, nor thieves break through
and steal,” that when we shall come into
our inheritance, it may be an everlatsing
one, and we shall know that we have
earned it.
					C. C. R. W.
Salt Lake City, May 20, 1892.


