WORSHIP IN OLDEN TIME.
---
	If we could carry ourselves back to those
olden days, and were to approach a New
England village about nine o’clock on Sun-
day morning, we should hear some one beat-
ing a drum, or sounding a horn, or blowing
a conch shell, or possibly ringing a bell to
call people to worship.  If we came nearer
still, we should see a flag waving from a
log-built church or “meetinghouse.” En-
tering the village we should see a strong
fence of stakes around this meetinghouse,
and a sentinel in armor standing near it;
and we should see some of the men, as they
went in, leaving their muskets in his care.
We should, perhaps, see a cannon or two
planted near the meetinghouse; and we
should also see some strange wooden frames
not far off, these being the stock and the
pillory, put there to punish offenders.
Looking at this church we should see that
it had very few glass windows, and that
these had very thick and small panes, dia-
mond-shaped, and set in leaden frames.  We
should observe that the other windows had
oiled paper instead of glass; and we should
see between the windows the heads of
wolves that had been killed and displayed
there during the year.
	If we were to look inside the little church
we should not see the families sitting to-
gether, as now, but they would be dis-
tributed according to age, sex, or rank.  In
those days the old men sat together in one
place in the church, the young men in
another.  The boys all sat on the pulpit
stairs or gallery, with constables to guard
them.  Each of these constables had a wand
with a hare’s foot on one end and a hare’s
tail on the other.  These were to keep the
people awake.  If any woman went to
sleep, the constable touched her on the fore-
head with the hare’s tail; but if a small boy
nodded, he was rapped with the other end
not quite so gently.  No doubt the wand
was often used, for the services were some-
times three or four hours long, the sexton
turning the hourglass before the minister
at the end of every hour.  The only music
consisted of singing by the congregation
from a metrical version of the psalms, called
“The Bay Psalm book.” The whole num-
ber of tunes known to the congregation did
not exceed ten; and few congregations
could go beyond five.  This was the Puritan
form of religious service.  And people were


not allowed to stay at home from it; for
men called tithingmen were sent’ about
town to look for those that were absent.
Men were fined for every unnecessary ab-
sence; and, if they staid away a month to-
gether they might be put into the stocks or
into a wooden cage.—Hearth and Hall.


