[Vol1 | November 1914 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Home | Title: Home-Ethics]

HOME ETHICS Lesson III. 
Christ, Our Example. "If a man say, 'I love God' and hateth his brother, he is a liar for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how; can he love God, whom he hath not seen?" In the centuries far back, when Britain was unknown, when the Germans were defying Caesar's staunch legions, Christ lived and was crucified in a small, despised section of the Roman empire. 
Though Christ never crossed the borders of his native country, save in his infancy, and though few ever beheld him in the flesh, he is today worshipped by millions upon millions of men. 
He is worshipped for his divinity, and for his atonement. 
He is known by us through those sacred books, the Bible and the Book of Mormon. 
Our knowledge of him is illuminated by the witness of the Spirit, to the extent that he appears to us as indeed our Elder Brother, our Teacher, and as the great Exemplar. 
Through the study of the gospels of Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, it is borne in upon us that living up to the teachings of Christ would, in the ages, cause men to approach the wisdom and power of God. 
The almost astounding truth is that his teachings, though of the highest ethical form, are not only workable but practical, and we discover that if we will, we each can order the conduct of our daily lives after the manner of the Son of Man. 
Let us read his life as recorded by the apostles, seeking to fasten into our hearts his every act and teaching, so that we may know how to emulate his example. 
Was he frank, sincere, just, reasonable, humble, patient, long-suffering, forgiving, generous, kind, thoughtful, courageous, truthful, sympathetic, willing to bless and comfort? 
Was he serene, calm and unruffled, in trial? 
Let each member recite at least one of his sayings, that will be a guiding principle in life. 
Let each member relate an incident in the life of Christ that came as a blessing to some one else, and remains an example to us for better living. 
HOME GARDENING FOR WOMEN. "Every herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in the  .season thereof, all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving Doc. & Gov. 
Sd, 11 also see Job 14:7, 8, 9. ; The spirit of thanksgiving is conducive to health and happiness. 
Appoint one of the sisters to prepare a paper on Thanksgiving. 
Tell when it was first observed in America, what its prime object was, and if, in her opinion, one still observes Thanksgiving in the same spirit as originally intended.  Native Currant Bushes. 
Native currants, otherwise known as black, yellow or wild currants, should always be found in the farm or home garden space. 
They should be given proper attention by not over-crowding. 
Keep well preserved and cultivated; do not allow suckers to grow and divide the strength of the main or original plant. 
In Lovell, Wyoming, the writer saw cultivated native currants, both black and yellow, almost as large as ordinary marbles, and the family producing them said that they were not able to supply the demand. 
They sold at a very good price, too, thus proving again the assertion, that it pays to produce the best of anything we raise or make.. 
Native currants thrive in almost any climate where vegetation will grow. 
Try planting a few bushes this fall. 
If you do not like the fruit yourselves, you can dispose of it at a very profitable figure to your neighbor or at the market. 
Rose Slips, Geranium Slips, etc., etc. 
You may, if you Lave a fine rose bush, still have another by cutting off slips or the strong undergrowth of the bush. 
Place it in moist sand, cover with a glass, put in a darkened place, and leave to germinate. 
Just the tips should be planted; or, take a long limb, bury it in the ground, leaving it attached to the original rose tree, cover all but the tip of the limb deep in the ground. 
In the spring, cut off and plant. 
Geraniums that have been growing in the gardens all summer are too large to move into the house. 
Just take slips, placing in pots or boxes of moist sand and keep in a cool, dark place. 
They will soon put forth new leaves and bloom in early winter, and supply you with garden geraniums for the next spring and without extra cost. 
Petunias, and many other varieties of flowers that are propagated by slips may be treated very successfully in the same manner as the rose and geranium. 
Bulbs: Hyacinths, Narcissus, Tulips, Snow-Drops, etc. 
November is the month in which to plant your bulbs. 
Convert the children to the idea and have the boys assist you after school hours to spade up the ground. 
Get old fertilizer from the barn yard, and mix with sand. 
Use a spade and work over very thoroughly or, better still, get leaf mold or soil from the; mountains, work the soil until it is pulverized and free from lumps. 
Drainage, too, must be considered in selecting the place for bulb planting, as too much standing water will cause  the bulbs to rot. and disappointment will greet you instead of flowers. 
Bad drainage may be overcome by placing small cobble rocks about fifteen inches down in the bottom of the flower bed, which allows the water to seep between the rocks and thus prevents the rotting of any of the bulbs, which is so often the ease. 
Select good, solid bulbs free from rot and avoid dry, inferior looking ones. 
It is impossible to produce good healthy blooms unless good seed is used. 
The soil may be properly prepared, and in the most thorough manner, the moisture may be ample, the season perfect, but with poor seed, you have corresponding results. 
Osage Orange, or Mock Orange, is very fine for hedges, but does not grow as rapidly as some others. 
It also has the disadvantage of producing the mock fruit, which, although children love to pluck, sometimes destroys, when they do so, the symmetry and shape of the hedges. 
We recommend to our readers Farmers' Bulletin No. 183, TJ. 
S. 
Department of Agriculture. 
By sending your name and address to the Department, or to Senator Reed Smoot or Congressman Joseph Howell, you will receive this bulletin, which contains valuable information. 
We hope you have received the Pure Fabric Bulletins, sent out by the Utah Agricultural College of Logan, and this, as well as all other literature sent to our presidents, must be preserved for future reference. 
We are indebted to the A. 
C. 
College for this and many other publications. 
November LITERATURE Lesson IV. (Thirty Minutes.) Ten minute talk on Current Events. 
Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin. 
Subject: Franklin's Interest in Education. 
Sentiment: "Experience keeps a dear school but fools will learn in no other and scarce in that." 1. 
Franklin as a student. a. 
Early struggles for knowledge. 
Altemus, pp. 3544. 
Crowell. pp. 14.23. b. 
Language studies. 
Altemus, pp. 175-176. c. 
Scientific studies. 
Altemus, pp. 266-273 Crowell, ; pp. 223-228. 2. 
Franklin establishes Academy, which later becomes: ;  the University of Philadelphia. 
Altemus. pp. 209-213, Crowell, pp. 169-173. a. 
Development of the scheme. b. 
Financial basis of the school. 3. 
Establishes free charity school. 
Altemus (see note. p. 213.) (Reference to this school is found in the Altemus edition only.) Two years after the academy was established a free school v/as advertised in "Franklin's Gazette," as follows: "Notice is hereby given, that on Monday, the 16th of September, a free school will be opened, under the care and direction of the Trustees of the Academy, at the new building, for the instruction of poor children, gratis, in reading, writing, and arithmetic. 
Those who are desirous of having their children admitted, may apply to any of the Trustees." A year later the following notice appeared in the same paper '"The charity school opened by the Trustees in the Academy, now teaches reading, writing, and arithmetic to a hundred poor children, most of whom, though from eight to thirteen years of age. had never been sent to any school before nor did it seem likely many of them would ever have been sent to any school if it had not been for this institution." QUESTIONS. 1. 
Discuss the subject, "Franklin, a Self-Made Man." 2. 
What is really the important thing in acquiring an education? 3. 
Compare Franklin with the type of man who is anxious to educate and inform himself only. 4. 
What do you think of Franklin's "free school?" 5. 
What great scientific discovery was made by Franklin as a result of his extensive experiments? 6. 
Amiat honor came to him through this discovery? 
ART. 
Whistler Innes: James A. 
McNiel Whistler is the greatest modern artist. 
He discovered to Europe the wonderful Japanese art. 
He  was not appreciated by his countrymen, Americans, nor yet by the English, among whom he made his home. 
The French, after long years, gave him his proper place. 
He was always appreciated by a few who were a source of consolation to the 
 great artist, whose life is art and art was his whole life led through long years of harsh jeering, taunting, acrid criticism, before he converted the world to his greatness. 
His etchings are marvels of beauty, and he is as wonderful in painting as in etching. 
Whistler has had a tremendous influence on the art of today. 
His art is subtle, delicate, original and spontaneous. 
To those who can not understand him, it is useless to explain,  for art can not be explained especially the highest art for  that can only be felt. (Read the October Bulletin on Whistler, Sargeant and Brush. 
Read Hafen's letter and Mary Teasdel's story in "Devotees and their Shrines," for references to Whistler; also the introductory and extracts by Whistler, on pages 17, 18, 41, 94, 103, 109.) George Innes was the greatest American landscapist next to Whistler. 
He was indeed an artist. 
His work in studios was very independent. 
He studied nature closely, sympathetically, and was wonderful in feeling. 
He was emotional when contemplating nature. 
In his early life he suffered from epilepsy, but grew stronger through later years. 
Read Hafen's tribute to George Innes, in his letter. 
Innes died several years ago, but as he becomes better known, he will be recognized and given his right place among the greatest Americans. 
George Innes was a dreamer, but his visions were in the highest, loftiest realms of the beautiful. 
No American should be ignorant of Whistler, Sargeant, Innes. 
Winslow, Homer, Brush and Woodbury, and no Utahn should neglect to learn something of John Hafen, John Fairbanks, J. 
T. 
Harwood, Edwin Evans, Cyrus Dallin, Mary Teasdel, Rost Hartwell, M. 
M. 
Young, Lee Greene Richards, Donald Beauregard, A. 
B. 
Wright, Wesley Browning, Myra Sawyer, and those noble pioneers, Weggeland. 
Ottinger and a score of others whose names could well be added.