Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and February 15, 1899 A WONDERFUL AGE: Women have in this present generation taken hold of some of the problems of the day and wrestled with them with the intuitive spiritual strength that seems to be a part of the feminine nature.... Combined efforts are multiplying, and necessarily must increase the power against tyranny and oppression of all kinds, and where men and women unite for high purposes, intelligently waging war against wrong-doing, the victory so long looked for must eventually be expected. —Editorial PERSEVERANCE AT CENTERVILLE: The Centerville Relief Society owned two lots of its own and desired to build, as they had no place of their own to meet in, but on inquiring the cost they found it would be more than they could afford, not wishing to go into debt too much. On the adjoining lot from theirs was a school house which they were advised to purchase if it could be bought on reasonable terms.... They found they could buy it for five hundred dollars. Through the perseverance of the committee, and prayers and help of the brethren and sisters who responded nobly to the cause, they bought it. So now we own two thirds of a block. The school house was cleared and repaired and... Was dedicated June 1, 1898. —Mary Rockwood, Sec. Tho' clouds of disappointment May gather in life's sky, Do not despair, the sun is there, And soon will be so bright and fair, And then those dearest hopes of thine Like sunlight in thy path will shine. —Nina Winslow Eckhart VIRGIN CITY, DIXIE: The past year has been a very dry one. In August we had. A very severe storm which did but little good and a great deal of harm. The health of the people as a rule is pretty good. Our Relief Society is doing a good work taking care of the sick and looking after the worthy poor and feeling after the aged. On the morning of January 11, the people awoke finding a happy surprise, the snow being about three inches deep, the first wet storm for the winter, which made everybody rejoice. —Emily A. Stratton THE TRIENNIAL: The women of Utah who went to Washington in February to attend the Triennial sessions of the National Council of Women of the United States, have had an interesting experience to say the least, especially those who went as presidents, (proxies), delegates and members of the Resolution Committee. As everyone knows who has been connected with such great national bodies, the hard work and teally the most important is done in committees. Speech making is comparatively easy, more especially so when prepared beforehand, which the addresses certainly should be on any given subject.... The papers for discussion were of very great interest, especially upon vital questions. "The Women of Hawaii," by Susa Young Gates, was a very ably written and exhaustive paper on the conditions, customs and ethics of the natives, and some expression of real life by Hannah Kaepapa, the pretty custom of the laie was given in an object lesson on the platform.... —Editorial Page 94 ELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President of Relief Society, has been named a member at large on the executive committee of the National Council of Women. She recently attended the annual meeting of the council in New York City, accompanied by Marianne C. Sharp, Second Counselor in the General Presidency. AULA COHEN, twenty-threeyear-old astronomer, who has a Master's Degree from the University of California at Los Angeles, is a member of the Douglas Aircraft Research Department, where she plots possible orbits for artificial satellites. ICHIKO SHODA, twenty-four, is betrothed to Crown Prince Akhihito of Japan. She is the first commoner to share the throne of Japan since the world's oldest dynasty took it over in 660 B. C. ARNER DODSON, wife of a geologist, has written a helpful and practical volume, Making the Most of Every Move, in which she offers advice on packing, the financial aspects of moving, selecting new homes and disposing of the old ones. The author, from her rich and varied experiences in moving, and from extensive research, believes that the psychological problems of moving require careful consideration.