(siting Seacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 16—"Be Patient in Afflictions, for Thou Shalt Have Many; But Endure Them, for Lo, | Am With Thee, Even Unto the End of Thy Days" (D. & C. 24:8). Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, May 5, 1959 Objective: To show that afflictions are a normal part of life's experiences and can be the basis of great blessings, if we trust in the Lord. F we keep his commandments, the Lord has promised that we will find much joy in this life. Yet, he has never implied that this joy may be earned without troubles and afflictions. In fact, without the bitter we cannot fully appreciate the sweet. Full enjoyment of our blessings cannot be realized without the contrast of adversity. Affliction, if we meet and bear it wisely, can bring us closer to the Lord. It has been said that "You are never at any time nearer to God than when under tribulation, which he permits for the purification and beautifying of your soul" (Golden Nuggets of Thought by Molinos, page 8). It is by our Father in heaven's own design, that, along with our joys and successes, we must meet failures, disappointments, and afflictions. In bearing these afflictions, it is important for us to remember two basic facts. First, affliction is universal. It is the lot of all mankind. Although, undoubtedly some carry heavier burdens than others, none who trusts in the Lord is called upon to bear his burdens alone. There is a well-known legend about a traveler whose load of troubles and sorrows was so heavy that he complained he no longer could carry it. A certain wise man invited him to rest awhile and deposit his burden in a place where others had temporarily laid theirs aside. After his rest, the traveler was invited to take his choice of the burdens and to carry it away as his own. After lifting several of his neighbors' loads of cares and sorrows, he decided that, by comparison, his own burden was not so heavy after all. Another fact we must remember about our afflictions is that, actually, they can be the source of great blessings to us. Out of the crucible of adversity we can mold the great LESSON DEPARTMENT character qualities of courage, fortitude, understanding, and obedience. In Hebrews 5:8-9, we read that even the Savior: Though he were a Son, yet learned he Obedience by the things which he suffered; And being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him Many of the great accomplishments in the world have been made by people who have suffered heavy burdens and whose rising above their afflictions has been responsible, to a large extent, for their outstanding accomplishments. 'To name a few, Helen Keller is both deaf and blind. Beethoven was deaf much of his life, and Milton was blind. Lord Byron and Sir Walter Scott were lame. Someone has wisely said that afflictions are God's educators. It is not the afflictions themselves which count, but, rather, it is what they do to us. Our difficult experiences are often most profitable if: Wwe regard every hardship, no matter how severe, as a stepping stone to something higher; every disappointment, no matter how keen, as a means of molding 129 courage; every adversity, no matter how bitter, as something to make us valiant; every sorrow, no matter how penetrating, every affliction, no matter how poignant, as something to sanctify and exalt the soul (Jesus of Nazareth, by Bryant S. Hinckley, page 75). In this Doctrine and Covenants' message, we are exhorted to be patient in afflictions and endure them, for the Lord has promised that he will be with us unto the end of our days. What a marvelous promise! One of the greatest blessings we can enjoy in this life is to have the comforting assurance of the presence of the Lord's spirit. How wonderful it is to know that if we put our complete trust in the Lord, he will not forsake us, but will be ever near to uphold and sustain us. Surely this great promise will support us in our afflictions and give us courage and patience to endure them. Alma in The Book of Mormon expressed this thought beautifully when he said:... Remember, that as much as ye shall put your trust in God even so much ye shall be delivered out of your trials, and your troubles, and your afflictions, and ye shall be lifted up at the last day (Alma 38:5). Oe She Neasure of Our Greatness Wilma Boyle Bunker AN is, and must be rated not by his hordes of gold, not by some temporary influence, but by his character and integrity, sweetened by consideration and understanding. The highest order of any man is distinguished by human goodness, by selfsacrifice, and self-forgetfulness. Greatness in any one of us is the power and will to serve others. And perhaps the truest greatness is that which is unseen and unknown. It is ever insensitive to popular clamor and accepts the good deed as its own reward. The true measure of our greatness depends on our invincible integrity, on what we give to others, and how we serve.