Work IT leeting— Managing a Home (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 8—Managerial Aspects of Clothing the Family Vesta Barnett For Tuesday, May 12, 1959 Objective: To consider the management problems involved in providing adequate clothing for each family member. HERE is no norm or guide for choice in cloth as there is in nutritional needs of the body. Style, fashion, and fad need to be adapted to individual differences within the financial limits of the family. Being well dressed for the occasion and being aware of it can be of benefit to each member of the family psychologically, physically, and socially. For the majority of families, an adequate wardrobe for each member is possible only by intelligent management. Here are some practical suggestions for planning the family clothing needs: 1. Know the maximum amount of money available for the family clothing. 2. Analyze the characteristics of each member of the family as applied to clothing needs. 3. Anticipate the clothing needs of the family two to three years in advance. 4. Select the best stores for values, and shop at the sales. 5. Use all available information concerning quality, workmanship, shrinkage, colorfastness, suitability, care, and upkeep of clothes. 6. Train children to take good care of their clothing. 7. Do as much home sewing as possible and practical. Read the Label New materials are constantly coming onto the market, and new finPage 130 ishes are given to old fabrics. Today, even the experts can be confused as to the type of material used in a garment. For most of us, our best help is to read the label and follow the manufacturer's suggestions for care of the fabric. A good label should give the type of fiber used in the garment, the probable shrinkage, the color fastness to various causes of fading, resistance to wrinkles, and best type of care for fabric. General Care of Clothing If clothes are to have that fresh, immaculate look, they should be cared for daily, weekly, and seasonally. Good clothes deserve good care. Here are some suggestions for general care: 1. Buy good, shaped hangers for suits and coats. 2. Remember "a stitch in time saves nine." 3. Mend before laundering. 4. Broken threads in sweaters and knit wear should be caught and crocheted in again. A hole in a sweater should be darned.. The life of a pair of shoes is lengthened with proper care and a rest between wearings. Occasional Care of Clothing 1. Stains should be removed as soon as possible after they occur and always before laundering. LESSON DEPARTMENT 2. Follow directions on labels for Jaundering or dry cleaning. Seasonal Care of Clothing 1. Repair and clean all clothes before they are stored for the season. Cotton, linen, silk, and rayon clothing should be washed and put away unstarched, unblued, and unironed. Non-washable articles should be dry cleaned before being stored. Wool garments that are not mothproofed should be washed in soapsuds or dry cleaned, since all stages of moth life ate killed by these processes. Good Buying Principles The first requirement for a satisfactory wardrobe is to take stock of what you have, then plan for those things you really need. One hundred well-planned dollars can bring more satisfaction than two hundred unplanned dollars. The following shopping principles can help all of us get more satisfaction from our purchases: 1. Compare values. Experienced professional comparative shoppers say it is advisable to stop at several stores before purchasing expensive clothing items, such as a coat, suit, or a good quality dress. 2. Select basic or classic styles. 3. Buy clothes that fit your needs. Nothing is a bargain unless it fits in with your clothing plans. 131] 4. Purchase middle-priced items. 5. Know store brands. 6. Shop regular store sales, 7. Pay cash. Home Sewing Most homemakers know the satisfaction that can come from completing a home sewed article that turns out well. Skill in sewing can pay big dividends in the life of the average homemaker not only in dividends as far as money is concerned, but also dividends in terms of satisfaction and pride of accomplishment. Discussion Thoughts 1. Choose two or three new fabrics or new finishes for fabrics and show how each has simplified the care of clothing. Contrast the care necessary for these fabtics with those they have replaced. 2. Make a comparison of a garment purchased ready-made and one made at home (children's clothes, shirt, blouse or dress). Consider cost in time, energy, money, quality of fabric, enjoyment of garment. (Perhaps some of the women who sew could be asked in advance to bring some of their articles for study.) 3. Recall purchase of clothing you have made recently, one you feel was a good buy and another a poor buy. See if you can pinpoint the reasons why you consider one good and the other bad. A