[WomansExponent | Vol25 | 1896 | October | Issue: 7 | Title: LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

	WE now crossed over the river,
passing the home of Horace and had a view
of the cascades and falls, and of the plain
and hills and Rome, the Dome of St. Peter
above everything else, and the sun was just
over it so the effect was fine; then to Ha-
drian’s Villa, it covered a square mile, dates
from the later years of this far-traveled
Emperor. ’Tis said when he saw in any
country anything splendid he returned and
added one like it to this Palace; it was a
marvel of architecture and landscape
gardening. From the 16th Century to the
present day the ruins furnished works of
art, including many of the principal
treasures of the Vatican, and the ruins still
retain traces of mosaic and beautiful colored
marble, inlaying one marble with another,
and glass molded in ornamental relief,
while some of the magnificent grounds re-
main as they were. From here he could
look at Rome and the magnificent land-
scape he used to drive out in his chariot
with his slaves running at the horses heads,
and if one fell dead they passed on. He
built the Villa, paying his workmen with
the lash if they fainted under their burdens.
Do you wonder God buried it all? We
came home just at sunset when he went
down in a bank of gold; soon purple clouds
fringed the gold; it made me think of the
New Jerusalem where the walls are all
jasper and gold, and as the beautiful scene
receded from my view, I felt regret that the
day was ended. At night as the moon was
just right, I drove to the Colosseum and
Forum; there were no ugly shadows, the
Arches, Colosseum and Palaces were intox-
catingly, divinely beautiful. The driver
said “Ladies you don’t know how beauti-
ful Rome is until you see it by moonlight.”
	Tuesday, 26. Taking a last look at the
obelisk brought from Egypt and set up in
honor of Apollo by Augustus, then a drive
on the Pincian Hill, adorned with rostral
columns, statues, marble bas-reliefs, inter-
spersed with cypresses and pines.
	A winding road lined with memosas and
other flowering shrubs leads to the upper
platform now laid out in public drives and
gardens, but till twenty years ago a desert-
ed waste where the ghost of Nero was be-
lieved to wander in the middle ages. The
Eternal City is seen spread at our feet and
beyond it the wide spreading Campagna,
till a silver line marks the sea melting into
the horizon beyond Ostia. Then the Arch-
es which record important historical events;
Arch of Titus, the destruction of Jerusalem
the Jews loathe it; ’tis said to this day
no Jew has passed through it; Arch of
Septimius Severus, the victory over the
Parthians; that of Constantine, the end of
the tyrannical reign of Maxentius.
	The rest of the day was devoted to shop-
ping and packing trunks.

[Column 2]
	Wednesday, Nov. 27. Left at an early
hour for Naples 161 miles southeast from
Rome. Upon leaving the station we took
a regretful look at the enormous Dome of
St. Peter then made ourselves comfortable
for the day. As we traveled along I re-
marked to our guide, “We would call
those mountains, hills in America, what do
you call mountains?” these are 8,000 ft.
high; they did not seem so. The Appen-
nines traverse Italy in its whole length
from north to south dividing it nearly
equally; their highest point is Mount Car-
no, 9,521 feet above sea level; they are not
peaked but smooth and undulating their
bare rocks appearing only at their highest
point. The vegetation covers them up to
3,000 ft., on the lower belts the olive, palm,
citron and orange grow, which we saw on
the tops of some old mountains. We pass-
ed Caserta not far from Naples, noted for
its royal palaces built in 1752 by Charles
III, an immense pile with extensive gardens
called the Versailles of Naples. Excepting
a few Monastaries nothing of special interest
until the volcano of Vesuvius; it was
night and the view unsurpassed. A few
moments brought us to Naples the "City
of Sirens.”
	Arriving at Hotel Royal des Etrangers,
my bedroom was beautifully situated, the
evening was warm, I stood at the open
window and looked out upon the quay; the
beautiful Bay and beyond to the Promon-
tory then to the street below where soldiers
were marching, listening to their music,
thought it delightful to be here. The
city has a magnificent situation, rising like
an amphitheatre from the shore.
	On the west is the Castle of St. Elmo
once of immense strength, which covers
the hill of St. Erosmo. On the seaside are
the fortresses of Castle Nuovo often com-
pared to the Tower of London, and adorned
with a triumphal arch in honor of Alfonso
of Aragon, 1442. The Castle dell Ovo
with its traditions about Virgil probably
built by Norman Wm. I. 1150.
	The city is divided into the old and the
new town by the ridge extending from the
palace of Capodimonte to the sea, dividing
the city into a double crescent. Many of
the streets are crooked, narrow and steep;
the principal Via Roma (formerly Toledo)
winds along the curving shore of the Bay
and is the fashionable promenade of the
city and commands fine views; the lower
part of the street showed us the habits and
life of the lower classes. Some pictures
were striking and unlike anything I ever
saw except Indian scenes in early days.
The beggars annoy one so persistently and
seem happy; along the shore the fishermen
sell you the sea-horse for luck, and one
told me he would eat a devil fish for a sue,
a hidous looking fish they seem fond of.
I replied nothing would induce me to look
at him and he seemed to understand. Of
the large theatres we saw none, the Prof.
told us the San Carlo was the largest and
most elegant. The National Museum is one
of the most interesting and largest in the
world and contains many treasures from
Pompeii and the best bronzes found at Her-
culaneum. The aquarium is most inter-
esting containing a complete collection of
sea fishes. The church domes glitter with
gilded and colored tiles, the Cathedral San
Gennaro contains the priceless treasures of
the Saints and the small phials said to con-
tain the blood of St. Gennaro, which is be-
lieved to liquify twice every year. Naples


[Column 1]
has a number of squares but they are not
beautiful although decorated with obelisks
and fountains, they looked well trodden,
there was no sign “Keep off the grass.”
The Royal Palace at the extremity of the
Via Roma is home like, the young Prince
resides there; it contains old paintings and
many beautiful things, the Royal entrance
is magnificent, the ballroom is handsome;
leading from it on each side are a series of
beautiful rooms where the dancers sit or
promenade. The effect is like that of the
President’s room in the Capital at
Washington, D. C., looking into the mir-
rors the room each side is reflected a score
of times, a most beautiful sight; the theatre
is pretty but does not compare with those
of the Bourbon Princes. The double Balcony
was a dream of delight, with exquisite
views of the Bay and Vesuvius.
	Thursday Nov. 28. A fair day and calm
sea, we determined to visit the wonderful
Blue Grotto or “Grotto of the Nymphs,”
as should the sea be rough it would be im-
possible to enter there. Capri is an island
of Italy in the Mediterranean at the entrance
of the Bay of Naples, and twenty miles
south of the City of Naples.
	We started early and going aboard a
beautiful yacht steamed away to the Island,
the water beautifully calm and blue, the
views superb, the fiery crest of Vesuvius
a striking contrast. Arriving at Capri the
boats were waiting to take us into the
Grotto, two in a boat. As we neared the
entrance the men shouted to us to lie down,
Miss L. was in my boat, we could not sit
up as the opening was not high enough and
is only visible at low tide; the spectacle
was most beautiful. The chamber is 175
ft. by 100 and is 41 ft. high, illuminated
only from the entrance and by the reflection
from the bottom 60 ft. below; the walls ol
the cave, the boats and people were an in-
describably beautiful blue, the water like a
“Lambent sheet of blue flame,” the oars
looked like they were spangled with jewels,
the boys that dive, look when they come
to the surface, as if incased in blue armor.
	Returning to the yacht we now proceeded
to the picturesque village on the Island
where we were to lunch, then drive.
’Twas here Tiberius passed the last ten
years of his life, where he built twelve vil-
las the remains of which are still to be seen,
and the rock “II Salto” from which it is
said the tyrant used to throw his victims.
As we landed the natives urged us to ride
their donkeys up the steep incline to our
hotel on the edge of a hill with remarka-
ble views of the sea and Isles. The lunch
was served on the veranda surrounded with
orange, lemon and cition trees; the natives
sold us beautiful coral. After lunch we
drove about the Island. There were mar-
velous views of villas, garden, and castles
and the imposing volcano which we seem
never to lose sight of. Returning to the
yacht we resumed our voyage to Sorrento
where we were to remain the night. Arriv-
ing at Grand Hotel Victoria situated on the
very margin of the Cliffs we entered what
seemed like a tunnel where the porters were
waiting for us with the information, “The
lilt was out of repair;” so we walked up
this steep incline, entered the gardens and
passed into the hotel. The proprietor met
us and we were shown to our rooms, our
baggage soon followed and we dressed for
Table d' Hote at 7 o’clock.
	This part of Italy has a world-wide repu-
tation for beauty of scene and charm

[Column 2]
of climate. My window commands views
of the Bay and hills. I walked out upon
the terrace, the air was warm and filled
with perfume, the moonlight dazzling, and
down the Cliffs is the swish of the blue
waters; the scene was just heavenly. At
dinner there were other Americans who
came via Gibraltar, will remain two weeks.
The dinner was extremely fine, at dessert,
the waiter passed me something wrapped in
grape leaves “A specialite” of Sorrento,
they were dried grapes of delicious flavor
another “Indian fruit,” which is found to
be cactus fruit. I had eaten the fruit of
the cactus, this was sweeter.
	After dinner we went into the ballroom
where the natives danced and sang for us
dressed in their gorgeous costumes; they
were very graceful. Among the dances by
men and women was the Tarentalla and 
the Zingarella, very beautiful. Their
voices too were fine and they finished the
entertainment with “God save the Queen”
for the English guests, and “Yankee
Doodle” for the Americans; we all rose to
our feet while they sang. The evening
passed delightfully.
						KIM.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


