[WomansExponent | Vol25 | 1896 | October | Issue: 7 | Title: MY SHIP. | Author: Unknown]

MY SHIP.

DOWN to the wharves, as the sun goes down,
	And the daylight’s tumult and dust and din
Are dying away in the busy town,
	I go to see if my ship comes in.

I gaze far over the quiet sea,
	Rosy with sunset like mellow wine,
Where ships like lilies lie tranquilly,
	Many and far—but I see not mine.

I question the sailors every night,
	Who over the bulwarks idly lean,
Noting the sails as they come in sight,
	“Have you seen my beautiful ship come in?”

“Whence does she come?” they ask of me, 
	Who was her master? and what her name?’ 
And they smile upon me pityingly
	When my answer is ever and ever the same. 

Oh, mine was a vessel of strength and truth;
	Her sails were as white as the young lamb’s
		fleece,
She sailed long since from the port of Youth;
	Her master was Love, her name was Peace.

And like all beloved and beauteous things,
	She faded in distance and doubt away
With only a tremble of snowy wings,
	She floated swan-like down the bay.

Carrying with her a precious freight,
	All I had gathered by years of pain—
A tempting prize to the pirate Fate;
	And still I watch for her back again.

Watch for the earliest morning light
	Till the pale stars grieve o’er the dying day,
To catch the gleam of her canvas white
	Among the islands that gem the bay.

But she comes not yet; she will never come
	To gladden my eyes and my spirit more;
And my heart grows hopeless and faint and dumb
	As I wait and wait on the lonesome shore,

Knowing the tempest and time and storm
	Have wrecked and shattered my beauteous
		bark;
Rank seaweeds cover her wasting form, 
	And her sails are tattered and stained and dark.
But the tide comes up, and the tide goes down,
	And the daylight follows the night’s eclipse;
And still, with the sailors tanned and brown,
	I wait on the wharves and watch the ships.

And still with a patience that is not hope,
	For vain and empty it long hath been,
I sit on the rough shore’s rocky slope
	And watch to see if my ship comes in.
