[WomansExponent | Vol20 | 1891 | April | Issue: 19 | Title: EDUCATE WOMEN. | Author: Unknown]

EDUCATE WOMEN.

	[The Education of Woman in regard to
Civil Government and National Politics or the
Science of Government.]
	The women of today are very desirous of be-
coming well educated and having their minds
cultivated to as great an extent as possible.
When we become well educated we will
acomplish what we are striving for viz. our
rights, and every step taken in this direction
has a tendency to crumble and remove every
obstacle that stands between woman and her
rights.
	During the most successful period of the
Roman Government the works of women con-
stituted a principal feature which led Rome
to her victories. They loved and honored their
government and reared their children in the
same light.
	The golden reign of Queen Elizabeth is a
brilliant star that shines very bright among the
works of the female sex. While she was queen,
England was governed by one of its greatest
and best sovereigns. In this age the great talent
and literary success blossomed. The greatest
writers the world has ever known, Shakespeare
at their head, Bacon, Sidney, Raleigh, and
Spencer were her contemporaries. She coped
also with the greatest politicans and statesmen
of the age. During her reign the Spanish Ar-
mada was defeated, the English colony in India

[Column 2]

was settled. England rose from a third class
nation to a first class. Much adventure was in-
dulged in and in every way when Elizabeth
left England it was much wiser, better and
more successful than it had heretofore been.
This is an example of what the mind of woman
can do if it is cultivated in the proper manner.
	The great Napoleon's success was due not
only to his vigor and strength, but he was guid-
ed by the gentle intelligent powers of
Josephine. As soon as he put aside his gentle
guide his victories died and his strength de-
creased until he was taken captive to the Island
of St. Helena.
	When the Revolutionary War was fought,
what credit is due those who were willing to
sacrifice their lives for their country and their
freedom. But while they were on the battle
field the mothers and sisters prepared food
and clothing, nursed the sick and wounded
and in this way did a great deal in aiding the
soldiers, and on the hill of honor, they stand
side by side, women and men, in wearing the
laurels of their victories.
	We find women who would make good
school teachers, book-keepers etc, and while
working in these positions do not get near the
pay a gentleman would get in the same
position. The time is very near when we can
fill these to a good advantage. When merit
alone shall decide who shall hold offices and
execute the laws, and when this time comes,
our intellects will be strengthened, and our
financial affairs equally based with our contem-
poriaries.
	While we are contending for our "Rights"
the sterner sex should not be jealous  of us and
tax their courtesy as did the gentleman in the
street car. A short time ago a lady, who was a
strong advocate of "Woman's Suffrage" en-
tered a street car that was very crowded. The
conductor asked a young man if he would give
his place to the lady. He answered with indif-
ference: "This lady is a strong advocate of
Woman's Suffrage she wants equal rights with
the men and now she can have them." It is
unworthy, unmanly and ungentlemanly, for a
man to try to push a lady down and build him-
self up. A gentleman will wish his mother, sis-
ter, and wife, to attain to as high a degree of
intelligence as he, himself desires to become,
and will aid her in doing so.
	The growth of this great nation is measured
by the freedom, honor and justice given to
those who have stood side by side with the men
in building up the nation to its present con-
dition. It has progressed well in the past.
How much better would it be in the future, if
the other half of the citizens had their fran-
chise?
	The education of our sex is the feature
which will determine our success in the future.
We must educate, or we must perish in our
own prosperity. We must be acquainted with
the great issues of the day; the two National
Parties. We must decide for ourselves what our
politics are.
	The women of to day are rearing their child-
ren as the proud matrons of ancient Rome
reared so many great Romans.
	In the near future they will be entitled to a
greater credit in modern times than is due the
proud matrons of ancient Rome.
