[Vol12 | May 1925 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: One Phase of Motherhood Susan T. Jennings]

One Phase of Motherhood Susan T. Jennings.

Everyone has his faults.

Jim Jenson, Jr. Was no exception.

His was pronounced and obvious aversion to water.

That is, to be more explicit, to water when it was associated with soap.

Of course, he wasn't averse to its thirst quenching properties, especially when it formed the basic fluid of a soda fountain drink, neither was he averse to it when it ran in juyously cooling waves in the swimming pool.

It was decidedly the associated variety that Jim openly and avowedly held a distaste for.

It seemed unfortunate, from Jim's point of view, that he and his mother did not just agree on these finer technicalities as to the various uses of water.

No doubt their neighbors might have summed up their differences in the word immaculate; for Julia Jenson was an immaculate woman.

She averred Jim ought to take frequent and thorough washings.

Jim averred otherwise.

This otherwise attitude peeved Julia considerably.

Sometimes she complained to Jim, Sr. When he returned home of a week end.

Jim, Sr's. Vocation took him from home most of the week.

Saturday marked his return.

It also marked a thorough renovation of bedding in the Jenson domicile, with an application of fresh linen.

So it could not be wondered at that Julia, being of the immaculate order, should be slightly edgy towards nightfall on that particular day.

Jim, Sr. Was an even tempered man.

He never took his wife's complaining too seriously. ?He'll come to it.

Julia," he always soothed.; "But I can't understand him, Jim, to be so negligent of his appearance, to not take more pride in himself.

He doesn't take after you in that respect, not in the least." Inteut on vigorously polishing a cut glass bowl and gazing admiringly through it? crystal lights as if were reflected therein the polish that always attended Jim, Sr., she failed to note that that gentleman to whom the pretty compliment was directed had made no answering comment and to all appearances had suddenly become short sighted, at so close a range was he holding his magazine. 'You'll see that he takes his bath to-night, won't you, Jim?" And Jim, Sr. Did see to it, although it took considerable persuasion on his part.

"You'd better try and please mother about this washing business, Jim," he advised.

"If you endeavor to please your mother ONE PHASE OF MOTHERHOOD 269 in little things, some day she may strain a point to please you in some big thing, eh?" Jim eyed his father soberly, his reasoning appealed to him.

Of course, he would have much preferred reading until bedtime, then rolling in.

"But, oh well!

Women were fussy over little things, that was their nature.

And men?

Why men left the fusing for the big issues.

There was a difference,' Jim concluded, as bristling with cleanliness, he jumped into bed.

Monday morning Julia felt slightly out of sorts.

Perhaps it was due somewhat to Jim Sr. Telling her he wished he never bad to leave them.

She was wishing it, too, all morning.

Jim, Jr.'s general air of frousiness at the dinner-table smote on her fastidious cleanliness and tended to heighten her depression.

She waited till he rose to go.

"Jim, dear, you'll wash, won't you?

But Jim was already to the door.

"Oh, Ma, let a fellow alone," he protested, "I'm going to play football, so it wouldn't do any good, anyway." "But Jim, you must:" Julia though, was talking to space.

She felt exasperated.; Along in the afternoon she had taken up some sewing and was thus 'absorbed, when the front door opened noisily and closed to with a bang.

And Jim, Jr. Bounded up the stairs.

Suddenly Julia realized that the faucet in the bathroom was turned on at full force; and there floated to her the unusual ebullience of Jim washing.

"Could it be possible?" Julia's sewing involutarily slipped from her hands.

In a sort of daze she moved towards the stairway, but was almost precipitated by Jim who came bounding downward with the same rapidity of movement with which he had ascended but a few moments before.

He was fairly shining, a. Soft fragrance wafted to her.

"Jim!" she gasped.

"You're the best boy!" But with a -backward grin Jim had vanished.

Julia whisked into the kitchen.

She was aglow with elation.

She would make doughnuts for supper, Jim was so fond of them.

She had read somewhere that parents ought to show in some way their appreciation for a child's compliance with their wishes.

This would be her way.

In the process of doughnut making it came to Julia Jenson that in the way of being a trainer of children, she was indeed a success.

It had taken persistence on her part and firmness.

She wished Martha Mason would call.

She would like to tell her how effective her handling of Jim had been; how effective it had proved in helping him overcome his failing.

It might be a hint to Martha in the training of her own children.

Martha was 
 altogether too lax.

Julia had always considered her children somewhat unruly.

It required firmness.

As if to grant her wish, a few days later Martha Mason appeared in the doorway.

Julia welcomed her.

Martha was a big hearted woman with always a sunshiny smile; more, she was always a sympathetic listener.

But on this visit, Martha did most of the talking.

She had new neighbors, the recently appointed president of the college.

Julia made several futile attempts to introduce "Jim," but each time Martha waived her unceremoniously aside with, "I knew he'd come to it," as if the subject were of the most trivial importance.

Of course it was interesting to hear about the new president and his family.

What a nice, common, every-day sort of man he was; and to hear about his family, his lovely sociable wife and friendly, unselfish children.

But she would liked to have talked more of Jim.

She was therefore rather glad when Martha rose to take leave.

She followed her to the door and stood watching her from one of the windows.

Somehow Martha's visit had had the effect of dampening Julia's spirits.

She felt listless, disinterested in outdoor things, being scarcely aware of Martha's greeting a young ccuple who were crossing the street above.

But the girl attracted her even at the distance, she appeared modest and unassuming.

Julia was trying to place her as her eyes moved with a flicker of interest to the girl's escort.

There was something familiar in the way he walked, the broad shoulders, the swing of the long right arm reminded her of someone, someone she had known.

Why it was Jim!

Jim, Jr.! Her own boy Jimmie, and with a girl, of all things!

They had passed from her view, and somehow Julia staring into vacancy felt indignant; more, she was hurt, humiliated.

He hadn't even told her and she always made such a confidant of him.

The girl was a stranger.

Wearing his best suit, too!

Humph!

The idea!

Julia turned from the window and took up a piece of embroidery.

For a few moments she worked rapidly.

Her cheeks were flushed.

She was trying to harness her thoughts, but Jimmie and the girl persisted in obtruding upon them, interweaving themselves with her stitches.

Somewhere deep down in her bosom, Julia was sensitive of a little ache, an indefinite longing for something?she knew not.

What.

If Jim, Sr. Were only home!

A half hour later Julia was still in the same position, her fingers idly toying her work.

The flush was gone from her face, she was pale, pain-eyed.

The little ache was still there, but now in a blurred subconscious way she was striving to trace it to its source.

Strangely she was passing Jimmie.

Jim, Jr., then was not the chief offender, passing Jim, Sr., for he wouldn't have caused her pain for all the world, neither would her old friend ONE PHASE OF MOTHERHOOD 271 Martha.

She had reached the source, the girl stranger.

There was a frown gathered on her forehead.

To think this slip of a bobbedhaired girl had more influence over her boy in a few short days acquaintance than his mother had had in years.

All this bathing and dressing and fussing himself up; even to the helping himself freely to her expensive Hotskiss, had been done solely with the view of winning the approval of this stranger and not with any thought to please his mother or pay respect to her wishes.

To be sure, Jim, Sr., had seemed to have an intuition.

Hadn't he fortold Jim would come to it?

Martha, too, had had a like intuition.

How obtuse she had been!

The frown on her forehead deepened.

Oh, this vast scheme of life!

This inexorable passing of time!

The inevitable destiny that gave to a mother a son; then when she bad raised him to manhood, and he had become dearer to her than life itself, took him from her and gave him to another woman.

So thought Julia, rather somewhat bitterly, as she gazed moodily across the street.

But even as she thought, a sweeter and finer influence was at work with her; for Julia Jenson was a good woman and receptive to higher influences.

Gradually the things about her faded away, there crept a tenderness about her mouth, her eyes grew dreamily reminiscent.

In her mind's eye she was viewing another street, one that hedged in all the dear familiar things of her girlhood.

She was viewing another boy and girl.

A strapping youth with an odd swing to the long right arm, and a slender girl with long, black plaits.

He had playfully pulled those plaits the first time they met.

After that he had somehow fallen into the way of walking to and from school with her.

It had been a happy courtship, theirs.

Supposing though, Jim's mother had disapproved of her, had refused her, and not taken her to her motherly bosom, and told her she loved her like she was one of her own daughters!

Julia shuddered.

Why it would have been in the way of being a calamity, it would have broken up her life, their lives.

And they were meant for one another, she knew it.

Jim felt it, too.

Supposing, supposing, Julia moved uneasily, her inward monitor was boring deep.

Supposing this stranger girl was meant for Jim, that she was Jim's affinity, that in her he had found his life's companion, his soul mate?

Would she, his mother, want to come between them?

Would she want to break up their young lives, and sap their future of its joy?

Was this her motherhood, her mother love?

Julia's hands flew to her eyes as if to blot out an ugly sight.

She sank back overwhelmed, while her thoughts raced, unchecked, along the channels hitherto strange * * * on * * * and * * * on to sunny vistas where romped merry children, There were other little Jimmies and little Julias.