GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER Ste LESSON 3 Literature (3rd Week in November) THe SHort Story: Stories OF A NCIENT Ecypt, GREECE, AND ROME two and three thousand B. C., there was one Ptahhotep of the Pharaoh Dedkere's family who collected the moral maxims handed down from earlier ages.

Found in his Precepts was this: "Tf you are in the position of one to whom the petitions are made, be courteous and listen to the petitioner's story.

Do not stop his words until he has poured out all that he came to say.

A man with grievance loves the official who will accept what he states and will let him talk out his troubles fully. * * * A kind word will paint his heart; but if an official stops the flow of his words, people will say, 'Why should this fellow there have the power to behave this way?' * * * When Death comes, it seizes the baby which is at its mother's breast as well as him who has become an old man.

When that messenger comes to carry you away, let him find-you ready." Change the wording of Ptahhotep's morality a little and it might have been written by some twentieth century moralist.

Man, in some essentials, does not change much, and it is the human element in these stories of Ancient Egypt, Greece, and Rome that makes them worth a moment's pause in today's work.

These three ancient cottntries have been grouped together for two rather obvious reasons.

They are related in geography and civilization: because of the limited number of lessons, the story material must be condensed.

Class leaders are, of course, free to substitute stories L: Egypt, somewhere between other than the ones designated.

Some stories they will feel to be more interesting and more easily handled, but for the purposes of unity a story from each country has been selected, Anpu and Bata from Egypt, Aesop's Country Mouse from Greece, and either Livy's Horatius at the Bridge or Ovid's Orpheus and Eurydice from Rome.

Some readers may find that Herodotus' King Rhampsinitus and the Thief is most interesting of the Greek stories, but the subject matter is rather unpleasant.

The story is interesting however, if only for the difference in moral ethics between the twentieth century and the B. C's. It is hardly probable that a ruler of today would choose for his daughter's husband such a thiet, even if he were wiser than the Egyptians who "excelled all the rest of the world in wisdom." Some of the class members may prefer a mystery story, there being two in the Ancient Rome section— one The Haunted House by Pliny the younger, and the other The Dream by the author of the Golden Ass.

The former is one of the best of ancient ghost stories and shows that ghosts have not changed materially since Pliny's time.

The Dream is breathlessly absorbing and still has hair raising qualities.

Aesop, who presumably wrote The Country Mouse is too well known to need mention.

His moral tales, dressed in the fabric of beasts, have come down through many ages and are still being told and imitated 514 today.

From all that the world knows, he was a foreign slave in a Greek household.

Naturally the Romans borrowed much of their culture from the Greeks, but among them the short story was more highly esteemed than it was with the Greeks.

Ovid, author of Orpheus and Eurydice, was born in Rome in 43 B. C. His great literary ambition was to write in verse the chief stories of Greek mythology.

The Egyptian story, Anpu and Bata, was supposed to have been written about 1400 B. C., and the author is unknown.

It is a story with a theme as old as Egypt.

In the Old Testament the theme is found in the story of Joseph and Potiphar's wife, and writers of every age since have used it.

Women, in the opinion of the author of Anpu and Bata, were inferior creatures, for both of his women have no sensesof honor and resort to trickery and deceit to gain their ends.

Even the woman composed of the essence of Nine Gods was no better than the ordinary mortal.

The civilized world has always been interested in Egyptian history and mythology, and many seekers of religion have felt that deep mysteries and truths have long been hidden in the Valley of the Nile.

Much of our civilization has come from Egypt and scholars have felt that country which could produce so many and variegated arts and sciences should also produce a religion as great.

But in this supposition they have erred.

Men who have made a thorough and prolonged study of ancient Egypt believe that its religion was without a definite system of doctrine, largely unintelligible and unadaptable to reason.

Egyptian religion seems to have begun with Animism, a belief that the earth and heavens were filled RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE with countless spirits, many of which abode in animals.

Naturally the primitives could not understand animals because they had no means of communication.

Animals, then, were mysterious and could cause harm to man.

Man, in turn, must someway appease them.

So he began to placate animals by sacrifices, after which they in time became spirits and later gods.

The water, the wind, the trees, the fields, all were filled with gods, and each tiny place had its local god.

In historic times the gods were better organized.

At the time the story of Anpu and Bata was written, about 1400 B. C., there was one chief god, Re or Ra, who was god of the sun.

There were countless other deities, but the Nine Gods, whose names it would be useless to name, were the most important.

Animals, however, were still held holy, particularly the bull.

This animal, if he wanted to be highly regarded, must be black with certain markings of white.

The Egyptian religion, shown in the story, was still crude and childlike with gods who dealt in magic.

But these same gods were walking upon the earth and dispensing justice.

Good was rewarded and bad punished.

Questions on the Story of Anpu and Bata What is the theme of the story?

Do you know of any other stories using the same theme?

What knowledge is gained from Anpu and Bata of life in Egypt at this time?

What evidences do you find in the story that the author was a person of culture?

Applying the tests for a good story, show where this one either complies or fails., GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER Is this story a true short story according to the modern definition?

Does the writer of this story have a high opinion of women?

Why?

In what ways were the two women characters alike?

What do you suppose were the particular ornaments and promises that won the wife of Bata?

How did Bata triumph over women in the end?

Point out human traits that are characteristic of any country or time.

Does this story have a philosophy? * * * * Using Ovid's story as a basis, 915 the Greek and Egyptian religion?

What difference do you find between Notes on Anpu and Bata Ra Harakti: sun god and chief of the gods.

Nine Gods: the principal gods.

Bull of the Nine Gods: a sacred animal, probably black with the white marks.

Khnumu: one of the Nine Gods Hathors: goddesses of love, usually represented as having cow's heads and ears.

Persea trees: holy trees.

Muller's Egyptian Mythology was used as the basis for conclusions drawn on