SOME IMPORTANT MATTERS. 

	Since the last issue of our paper, on the 1st of
May, several events of great importance to this
people have transpired. Four of the Elders of
Israel have been sentenced to the Penitentiary
for obeying a vital principle of the religion
which is a part, as it were, of their very life.
	Persecution seems indeed a portion of the
heritage bequeathed to the Saints of God, and
can those who live in the last dispensation of
the fulness of times expect to escape it? It
"must needs be that offences come," said the
Savior, "but woe, be to them by whom they
come!" And to-day it is our firm conviction
that those brethren who are imprisoned for the

[Column 2]

Gospel's sake are happier in their prison than
those who were the means of sending them to
that miserable place, built solely for persons who
are guilty of actual crime. These brethren are
innocent of evil, but a law has been made to
make a crime of that which is not sin in the
sight of God. In fact of what God himself has
positively approved,if one believes the Scriptures.
How many more must yet pass through this try-
ing ordeal is not known; but what Latter-day
Saint can help rejoicing in the heroism and
integrity of those valiant men. Is it not a testi-
mony to all the world that they are not ashamed
of the Gospel of Christ which they have es-
poused, and that they are willing to suffer rather
than deny a principle revealed for the salvation
and exaltation of the human family?
	The opposing influence and powers of dark-
ness may be, and perhaps are strong against
this people at the present time, but they cannot
break asunder the bonds that bind the Saints
together, the covenant people of God, nor can
they hinder the increase of His people through
the channel which He has appointed, viz, "the
marriage relation," which they specify and lay
such stress upon. They may have power to
break up some homes, temporarily, and scatter
the families, but though separated from each
other, God will be with them and will bring
them together again, for their trust is in Him
who holds the destinies of nations in His hands,
and who can command even the waves of the
sea, and say, "Thus far shalt thou go and no
farther," and here shall thy proud waves be
stayed.
	The Latter day Saints have nothing to fear if
they are only faithful and true to the covenants
they have made to God and to each other. The
Scripture says, "Fear not those that can kill
the body, but rather fear Him who can cast both
soul and body into hell." But while we watch
and pray that we may be preserved from evil in-
fluences and the powers of darkness, and from
wicked and designing men, who rejoice when
the servants of God are betrayed into their hands,
let us watch, as well as pray, and guard our-
selves from all foes within and without, and be
wise and prudent in all we do or say, and "re-
member them that are in bonds as bound with
them." They are suffering for a principle, one
that is repugnant to the world because of its
purity, for the world loves its own. The very
men who condemn the Latter-day Saints for the
practice of a pure and holy principle, which
they themselves acknowledge to be a part of the
religious faith of the "Mormon" people, have,
during the recent trials, admitted that the Ed-
munds law was made specially for those who
entered into the marriage relation, and not for
those who were guilty of adultery and similar
offences against good order and decency.
	So much for so much; those who are thus as-
sociated should look upon this as an honor,
though unwittingly rendered; thus, even these
officials, who are seeking to bring this people
into bondage, are bound to acknowledge a cer-
tain superiority in the Latter-day Saints. And
did not Judge Zane admit, in his answer to Bro.
Musser's questions, that the wives were equal,
when he said he might take either one of them
as his wife, but only one?
	It is plain to see that every now and then they
get beyond their level, and make the rulings of
the court a jest and a byword. But the Lord
will confound them, by and by, as completely as
He did the people who tried to make a tower
that would reach unto heaven, if not in the
same way.


