PRIMARY ANNUAL MEETING.

	The Primary anniversary meeting of the
20th Ward convened in the school house on
April the 24th, 1885. Present on the stand:
President Emma Toone, Sisters H. T. King,
M. I. Horne, B. W. Smith, E. S. Taylor and
Dr. Ferguson. Of the brethren, Counselor
Dunbar, George A. Romney and Wm. Willes.
Bro. Lewis is the oldest man in the ward, and
it was his eighty-seventh birthday.
	Meeting opened by singing, "Never too late."
Prayer by George Romney Jun. Singing
"Haste to the Primary." Organist, Miss
Savage. Minutes of the last meeting read
and accepted. Then followed songs and reci-
tations by twenty-five of the boys and girls; all
were good, but I must especially name a very
little lady—Kate Romney—her manners and
appearance were sweet, and her organ solo was
beautifully rendered; her time excellent. There
were others I would like to speak of especially,
but indeed all were good, and the order and

[Column 2]

good manners of the children did ample credit
to their President and her assistants. Their
labor must have been great and unsleeping.
	After the children were through with their
programme Sister Toone said she could only
give two or three minutes to each speaker as
the time was so advanced. She then called on
Bro. Dunbar, who said he was glad to be pres-
ent, that he had admired the order of the
children, and in the name of the parents he
felt to express his feelings of satisfaction to
Sister Toone for all that he had seen and
heard.
	Bro. Romney said he had attended all the
meetings, and he saw a great improvement in
the children from time to time, and great merit
was due Sister Toone; he wished the parents to
send their children all the time, and not only
at the anniversary; and he thanked Sister
Toone in his own name aud in behalf of the
parents.
	Bro. Savage gave a riddle: What were we
all doing at the same time?—(Getting older.)
Called on the children to pray for long life to
Sister Toone. This Association was a prepara-
tion for the upper room. Felt the Spirit of
God was present, and desired the children to
carry home the influence they felt here.
	Bro. Richards had attended every meeting.
"Children, remember all you have heard here
this afternoon." Proposed a vote of apprecia-
tion to Sister Toone, which was unanimously
responded to.
	Bro. Lewis asked the choicest blessings on
Sister Toone.
	Sister Horne had been highly edified this
afternoon; the children would do well to apply
the essays and recitations that had been given.
She was present when the society was first
formed, and she was impressed to name Sister
Toone as its president. Would have liked to
have seen the boys brought forward. Endorsed
the recitation of a little boy—"Give the boys
a chance." Wanted them to pray for Sister
Toone.
	Sister Taylor was delighted with all she had
heard and seen; everything had been of a re-
fined and elevated caste. "Pray for Sister
Toone."
	Sister B. W. Smith was glad to see so many
more children than formerly. "Children, you
have been well instructed, and bless and pray
for your teachers and your President.
	Sister Ferguson: "You good boys and girls,
I have been delighted with you all this after-
noon; I see you are so much improved. The 
last days are truly upon us, and much devolves
upon men and women. I hope you will all re-
member that essay read here on faith, and ap-
ply it to yourselves, each one; I hope you will
have it when you need it."
	Sister Clarke felt enough had been said, but
she was delighted with all she had heard and
seen.
	Meeting was then adjourned for one year.
Singing, "Hope of Israel." Bro. Geo. Romney
Jun. spoke a few words, and closed the meet-
ing by a benediction.	H. T. K.


