CORRESPONDENCE.

	St. George, Utah, April 20th, 1885.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	At two o’clock to-day the officers and mem-
bers of the Third Ward Relief Society met at
the residence of Father Edson Barney, in honor
of his wife, Sister Lillis Barney, attaining to
her 80th Birthday.
	Mother Barney, with her husband, was bap-
tized into the Church in 1831, and have passed
through all the persecutions and have shared
in all its arduous labors and privations up to
the present day, and have assisted in the con-
struction, dedication, and in ministering in the
Temple at Kirtland, Nauvoo and St. George.
Sister Barney’s children, with grand and great
grandchildren, number over seventy.
	Our social gathering was honored by some
of our aged and most respected veterans, of
whom were Fathers Barney, Hardy, Empy and
Patriarch Johnson.  Our meeting was opened
by singing, and prayer by the Patriarch, after
which Mother Barney addressed the meeting
in a feeling and touching manner, showing her
appreciation of the honor bestowed upon her,
and how much she desired to bless and comfort
all her sisters.  She was followed by Father
Barney, who spoke in an earnest and feeling
manner of his experience in the Church in its
earliest days, after which Father Hardy, Empy
and Johnson bore their testimonies, and by the
Spirit of the Lord, with which they seemed
filled, spoke many things to edify, cheer and
comfort our hearts, and to pronounce blessings
upon our heads.  They were followed by near-
ly all the sisters present, who made spirited
and feeling remarks, and the Spirit of the
Lord seemed to rest upon all present in rich
abundance.
	The table was then spread with everything
that would please the eye and cheer the heart,
and all partook until they were satisfied, after
which we indulged in singing hymns, songs,
toasts and recitations, followed with a closing
address by the Patriarch, and all seemed to
feel with Sister Barney, that it was a time long
to be remembered.  All joined in wishing that
she might live to realize the fulfillment of the
promise made to her by the Patriarch Joseph
Smith Sen.—that she should live to see the
coming of the Son of man upon the earth, in
which she has abiding faith,
	HANNAH NIXON, President,
	AGNES McQUARRIE, Secretary.


