WE HAVE THE RIGHT TO PROTEST!

	That these are momentous and eventful times
are only weak terms of expressing what is now
transpiring in the midst of this people. It is
frequently remarked that these things have
been anticipated; they are in fulfillment of
prophecy, but does that make the situation less
important, and is it not our duty to protest
against injustice and wrongs, against those who
seek to take away our place and despoil us of
our inheritances, as much as though these
prophecies had never been uttered? Certainly.
The Lord has said importune for your rights, lay
your grievances before the chief men of the na-
tion, and petition for redress of your wrongs.
And so, after having borne insult and injury,
the brethren having been condemned to prison
without testimony, and many obliged to flee to
avoid being entrapped in snares set to catch
them, after having suffered these, and many
other grave indignities, the people, acting upon
the suggestion of leading men, who are presumed
to be influenced by a higher power than the
Territorial courts, suggested a way, by means
of which the people could give expression to
the grievances under which they were suffering,
and protest against the wrongs that were being
inflicted.
	Accordingly, a committee of twenty-two in-
telligent and representative men from all
parts of the Territory were appointed at
the General Conference in Logan, April,
1883, to draft a series of resolutions, and a 
protest, to be sent to the President of the
United States, asking for redress or investigation,
and protesting against further inhuman pro-
ceedings until a special report could be made.
This Declaration of Grievances and Protest were
carefully prepared, and every point now under
discussion made specific and clear, and presented
in the most respectful manner so that there
could be no offense taken, even in the wording
of the document; and after the committee had
completed the work, a mass meeting was called,
to convene in the county town of each Stake of
Zion, on Saturday, the 2nd of May, to ratify in
general assembly the Declaration and Protest,
and to give expression to the feelings and senti-
ments of the people on the subject, which, at
the present time lies nearest their hearts.
	The mass meeting held in Salt Lake City
convened in the large Tabernacle at one o'clock
p.m., on the day appointed, and was a large and
an enthusiastic gathering of a multitude of peo-
pel. Hon. Wm. Jennings called the vast assem-
bly to order, and nominated Hon. John T. Caine
as chairman. The motion was seconded and
carried unanimously. Heber M. Wells was
elected Secretary, and proceeded to read the call
for the meeting. Masers Wm. Jennings, T.
G. Webber, E. A. Smith, C. D. Brinton, and
Miss Mary E. Cook and Dr. Romania B. Pratt

[Column 2]

were nominated and sustained as Vice Chairmen,
and Mr. Wm. M. Stewart and Mrs. Cornella H.
Clayton as Assistant Secretaries. The choir
sang, "O say what is truth?', Prayer was of-
fered by Apostle H. J. Grant. Music by the
S. S. Union brass band.
	The Chairman then stated briefly the object
of the meeting, and made the opening speech,
in which he gave a graphic description of some
of the persecutions and hardships bravely en-
dured by this people, and related something of
their history since the first settlement of 
Utah.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney then read, in a power-
ful and forcible manner, the Declaration of
Grievances and Protest, to the President and
People of the United States. The reading was
greeted with frequent bursts of hearty and pro-
longed applause. Hon. James Sharp, Mayor of
the city, moved the adoption of the Declaration
and Protest. Seconded.
	Bishop John. Q. Cannon made a short, but
strong and forcible speech, in which he stated
that this protest was not made with cringing or
shrinking, but with an unflinching determina-
tion to maintain the right. "The causes which
impel us are mighty. The only parallel in
American history was at the commencement of
the Revolutionary war." At the close music by
the brass band.
	Junius F. Wells Esq. delivered a telling
speech on the situation at the present time, and
illustrated his arguments by positive testimony
of facts, which are beyond contradiction. Music
by Fireman's band.
	Hon. F. S. Richards made the most purely
logical speech of the day. Referred to the Utah
Commissioners and their work, the test oath
they had introduced, and closed by saying that
whatever might be the result of this appeal to 
the American people, "History will do us
justice, and we will be vindicated in the protest
adopted here to-day."  Prof. J. J. Daynes per-
formed a solo on the grand organ.
	B. H. Roberts Esq. was the last of the speak-
ers. His manner was very earnest and impres-
sive, and he spoke feelingly of the homes of the
people and the rights of freemen, and denoun-
ced unsparingly the official acts of the Governor
and the courts in dealing with "Mormons."
	The speakers, with the exception of the chair-
man, are all young men born and reared in
Utah, and they have shown pretty well of what
mettle they are made. And there are thousands
like them in these mountain vales.
	The Declaration of Grievances and Protest
were ratified and adopted with all the enthu-
siasm of a people whose souls were inspired with
zeal for the cause they represented. Messrs
John T. Caine, John W. Taylor, John Q. Can-
non were unanimously chosen as a delegation to
proceed to Washington and present the docu-
ment to the President of the United States.
	The choir sang the national anthem "America."
Adjourned sin[-] die. Benediction by Bishop O.
F. Whitney.


[Column 1]

