EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Permit me, through the columns of your
paper, to say a few words about the Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association of
Riverdale. Our Association is in a prosper-
ous condition. We hold our meetings semi-
monthly, and of late have had a very good at-
tendance.
	Our president, Sister Maria Russell, with
her counselors, Sisters Nancy Bybee and Lu-
cinda Bingham, attend their meetings very
regularly, and take a great interest in the wel-
fare of the young ladies, and do all in their
power to make the meetings instructive and
interesting. Owing to the day school being in
seesion during the week, we are deprived of
having the school house to meet in, and hence
we are obliged to meet at some private resi-
dence. The exercises of our meetings consist
of select readings, essays, songs, lectures and
speeches; we also have one of the first princi-
ples of the Gospel given to us for a subject; we
prepare ourselves to speak upon this subject
for the next meeting,
	We have a very good list of teachers in our
Association, who visit the ward monthly, thus
doing much good toward bringing the sisters
out to meeting.
	At our last meeting the President spoke to
some extent to the mothers, as there were quite
a number present, showing them the necessity
of urging their daughters to attend their meet-
ings regularly, and also said that the mothers
should meet with their daughters and speak to
them and encourage them in the work that
they were engaged in.
	Let me urge all my young sisters to attend
faithfully to all their duties and meetings, for
we can plainly see that they are productive of
much good, and the Spirit of the Lord will
dwell in richer abundance with us if we will
unite one with another in doing all the good
that we can in trying to roll on this great
work, and strive to carry out the good instruc-
tions that we hear from time to time.
	At the Young Ladies' Conference, held in
the Ogden Tabernacle, Friday March 13th,
there were a great many good instructions giv-
en and a good spirit prevailed. Some of the
instructions were brought to our meeting for
the benefit of those who were not able to at-
tend the conference.
	Hoping that you will reserve space in your
paper for these few lines, I am,
	Yours Respectfully,
		ELIZA W. CHILD.
Riverdale, Weber Co., March 25th, 1885.


