EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On our late visit to the Primaries of this—
Sanpete Stake of Zion—we found the children
progressing very satisfactorily; indeed it seems
as if it would be impossible for such as those
we met with to do otherwise; blest as they are
by being born of parents who serve the Lord,


and shielded as they are from contaminating
vices of the world, taught no false doctrines,
but taught true principles, to keep the laws of
God, and yet with enough evil around to make
an unmistakable contrast to good; and with
such facilites as they have for learning, in
schools and associations, blest with healthy
bodies and pure minds, we naturally look for
no small results from such a combination of
causes.
	We found the sisters in charge of laboring
assiduously to improve the hearts and intellects
of the little folks. There is a notable im-
provement in the selection of their exercises,
and we were often touched to tears during the
rendition of them. Children but three years
old took part in the programme in a way that 
drew tears of gratitude, to the Giver of all
good gifts, from the eyes of the older ones.
	Presidents Peterson and Maiben encouraged
us with their presence and kind words, as also
a number of the bishops.
	The Primary Associations take a pride in
adding their mite to help build the Temple at
Manti. We were shown a counterpane, which
had been  bought at the Temple store, of which
the owner was justly proud. It was under-
stood to have been donated by one of the P.
A. of this stake, At Fountain Green Sister
Collard, the Prest., told me that the P. A. of 
that place, last harvest, turned out enmasse and 
gleaned wheat enough to buy the cotton; each
able girl member patched a block exactly the
same size and pattern. The blocks were then
joined and beautifully bordered with a deep,
heavy fringe.
	Of the nineteen Associations of this stake
fifteen have held  fairs, several of them two or
three. These fairs, besides their industrial ad-
vancements, are also of some financial benefit,
as they enable the Primaries to supply them-
selves with the necessary books, help build the
Temple, and in some instances we are informed
they have donated to the Deseret Hospital.
The dear little souls are so anxious to do, that
if they are only led and directed with love and
care they will ultimately be men and women
of faith, virtue and integrity, making the
world better wherever they go.
	We were received with the most cordial wel-
comes wherever we went, and enjoyed our
visit with our little friends, as well as with the
older brethren and sisters with whom we met.
We were favored with having our much es-
teemed and beloved sister, Mary A. P. Hyde,
join us at Spring City and accompany us to
Mt. Pleasant, Fairview and back. A severe
snow storm prevented us from visiting Indian-
ola Primary, which we regretted exceedingly.
	Yours in the Gospel,
	HELENA MADSEN,
