OF EMILY D. P. YOUNG.

Continued.
	"Thursday, the 19th. We passed through the
town as soon as it was light, and before the in-
habitants were risen from their slumbers, meet-
ing with no opposition, but we had not proceed-
ed many miles before one wagon broke down,
and by the time that was repaired wheels ran
off from others, and such like incidents con-
tinued through the day to impede our progress.
When we started in the morning we intended
to arrive in Clay County that day, but in vain.
At a seasonable hour we encamped on an ele-
vated piece of ground between two branches of
Fishing River, having traveled about fifteen
miles. Fishing River, at this point, was com-
posed of seven small streams,and those between
which we encamped were two of them. As we
halted and were making preparations for the
night, five men, armed with guns, rode into our
camp, and told us we should see hell before
morning,and their accompanying oaths partook
of all the malice of demons. They told us
that sixty men were coming from Richmond,
Ray County, and seventy more from Clay Co.,
sworn to our utter destruction. The weather
was pleasant at this time.
	"During this day the Jackson County mob,
to the number of about two hundred, made
arrangements to cross the Missouri River,
about the mouth of Fishing River, at Williams
Ferry, into Clay County, and be ready to meet
the Richmond mob near Fishing River Ford,
for our utter destruction; but after the first
scow load of about forty had been set over the
river, the scow, in returning, was met by a
squall and had great difficulty in reaching the
Jackson side by dark.
	"Soon after the five men left the camp,swear-
ing vengeance, we discovered a small black
cloud rising in the west, and in twenty minutes,
or there abouts, it began to rain and hail, and
this was the squall that troubled the Jackson
boat. The storm was tremendous; wind and
rain, hail and thunder met them in great wrath,
and soon softened their direful courage, and
frustrated all their designs to "kill Joe Smith
and his army." Instead of continuing a can-
nonading, which they commenced—the sun
about one hour high—they crawled under
wagons, into hollow trees, filled one old shanty,
etc., till the storm was over, when their ammu-
nition was soaked,and the forty in Clay County
were extremely anxious, in the morning, to re-
turn to Jackson,having experienced the pitiless
peltings of the storm all night; and as soon as
arrangements could be made this "forlorn
hope" took the "back track" for Independence,
to join the main body of the mob, fully satisfied,
as were those survivors of the company who
were drowned, that when Jehovah fights they
would rather be absent. The gratification is
too terrible.
	"Very little hail fell in our camp, but from
half to a mile around the stones, or lumps of
ice, cut down the crops of corn and vegetation
generally, even cutting limbs from trees; them-
selves twisted into withes by the winds. The
lightning flashed incessantly, which caused it
to be so light in our camp, through the night,
that we could discern the most minute object;
and the roaring of the thunder was tremendous.
The earth trembled and quaked, the rain fell
in torrents, and, united, it seemed as though
the mandate of vengeance had gone forth from
the God of battles to protect His servants from
the destruction of their enemies, for the hail

[Column 2]

fell on them and not on us, and we suffered no
harm except the blowing down of some of our
tents and getting some wet, while our enemies
had holes made in their hats, and otherwise re-
ceived damage, even the breaking of their rifle
stocks, and the fleeing of their horses through
fear and pain.
	"Many of my little band sheltered in an old
meeting house through this night, and in the
morning the water in Big Fishing River was
about forty feet deep; the previous evening it
was no more than to our ankles, and our ene-
mies swore that the water rose thirty feet in
thirty minutes in the little Fishing River.
	"Friday, the 20th. We went five miles on
the prairie to procure food for ourselves and
horses, and establish ourselves for the moment
in some secure place where we could defend
ourselves from the rage of our enemies, and
while in this situation, on Saturday, the 21st,
Col. Sconce, with two other leading men from
Ray County, came to see us, desiring to know
what our intentions were; "For," said he, "I
see there is an an almighty power which pro-
tects this people, for I started from Richmond,
Ray County, with a company of armed men,
having a full determination to destroy you, but
was kept back by the storm, and was not able
to reach you."
	"When he entered our camp he was seized
with such a trembling that he was obliged to
sit down and compose himself; and when he
had made known the object of their visit, I
arose, and addressing them, gave a relation of
the sufferings of the Saints in Jackson County,
and also of our persecutions generally, and
what we had suffered by our enemies for our
religion, and that we had come one thousand
miles to assist our brethren, to bring them
clothing etc., and to reinstate them upon their
own lands, and that we had no intention to
molest or injure any people, but only to ad-
minister to the wants of our afflicted friends,
and that the evil reports circulated about us
were false, and got up by our enemies to pro-
cure our destruction.
	"When I had closed a lengthy speech, the
spirit of which melted them into compassion,
they arose and offered me their hands and said
they would use their influence to allay the ex-
citement which everywhere prevailed against
us, and they wept when they heard of our
afflictions and persecutions, and that our inten-
tions were good. Accordingly they went forth
and rode among the people, and made un-
wearied exertions to allay the excitement.
	A revelation was given while they were en-
camped on Fishing River, in Missouri, June
22nd, 1834.


