EDITOR EXPONENT:	
	I look around me daily and see the workings 
of wicked and designing men, who are striving


hard, but in vain, to overthrow the work of God.
How little do they understand what will result
from their present labors.  My heart bleeds for
them.  I do sincerely pity them, for they know
not what they do.  They are groping in utter
darkness, while we have the blessed light of
revelation, which is brighter than the sun at
noonday.
	Thus, looking at the trying picture, I feel to
wait patiently till the time of God arrives, when
all men shall have their just due.  We now can
appeal to only one more court on this earth for
justice, and if that right is refused us, which
God has given us—to worship God according to
the dictates of our own consciences—we can
then appeal to a higher court, where justice is
given to all men.
	Then woe to the nations of the earth! for
God has decreed its destruction, and His judg-
ment must come.  They cannot rule the courts
of heaven, therefore, they must, without doubt,
reap the reward of their labors; yet I do not
wish them harm.  No; I would to God they
could see the folly of their ways, and the final
result of their wretched doings.  They have
caused families to mourn and be left without
their leaders and protectors, left to protect them-
selves the best way they can.  But the families
that to day mourn the absence of those they hold
dearer than their own lives, are firm, and with
the aid of God Almighty, will bear it all, even
unto a most cruel death, for their holiest of re-
ligions, which was given personally from God to
man.
	Though being a member of the family of one
of those brethren that have been unlawfully
sent to that far off Detroit, I feel to acknowledge
the hand of Providence in all our circumstances.
Though bereft of our leader—through prayerful-
ness, and continually striving to follow his
teachings, in obeying the commands of God, we
find comfort in the loneliness we endure. Within
our home is a happiness that the world cannot
dream of.  They cannot comprehend the true,
honest love that exists in our happy home, as
we gather round our hearth and converse upon
the goodness of God, and His loving kindness
towards His people.  Could they but under-
stand they would at once say, There is a happy
home.  Look how cheerful the faces of those
women and children are; they are united in all
good.  How tidy and cleanly the rooms are!
There, on either side of the bright burning fire,
are the chairs of the mothers, which, when the
evening task is performed, are ready to receive
them.
	Each Sabbath finds them fasting and praying
for the Saints of God, for all those who are in
trying circumstances.  Thus, in our comfortable,
but not richly decorated home, we find ourselves
enjoying the comforting spirit of peace, and are
contented that the will of God be done, and the
beloved absent one be returned in His own due
time; while he, in his far away prison home, is
content with his lot until the Lord sees fit to
grant it otherwise, and feels to thank God that
prison doors have been closed upon him for
serving Him who is greater than all.
	Feeling that I have written enough, I desire
the blessing of heavenly comfort to abide in the
habitations of all the Saints.  I remain,
	A sister in the Gospel of truth,
	GRACE.
Omer, April 20th, 1885.


