WOMAN'S INFLUENCE.

	The age in which we live is one of much
speculation in reference to woman's proper
sphere, her privileges and rights as a citizen
of the world, and considerable jealousy has
been exhibited by some of the lords of creation
in view of her growing influence, and much
uneasiness is felt by this class in beholding her
hitherto latent powers and capabilities making
themselves manifest in the counting room, in
the management and direction of educational
institutions, in the proficiency and throughness
that she exhibits in the practice of medicine
and surgery, as well as in her adaptability to
successfully fill other places of equal responsi-
bility, that men only have heretofore occupied.
Many cowardly thrusts are made at women
because of these aggressions upon the usages
and customs of society that have become venera-
ted by age. The idea of women voting at the
polls, and perhaps, thereby, determining the
result of an election, is viewed as dangerous in
the extreme; and despite all her efforts to se-
cure this privilege sustaining her rightful claim
thereto, by arguments that are unanswerable, and
supported by reasons the most conclusive, yet
her success thus far has been very meagre com-
pared with her untiring efforts—efforts that are
worthy of the bravest men, and will, by and
by, be rewarded beyond her present anticipa-
tion; for if I estimate her rightly she will never
yield until the object sought for is attained, and
as the barriers that stand in the way of her ad-
vancement and promotion are thrown down
one by one, her ingress into places and posi-
tions, now denied her, will be rendered more
easy, and thus, almost without effort, will she
step into and occupy the sphere that by nature
and endowment she is qualified to fill.
	In making these statements I do not wish to
be understood as agreeing with many of the
sentiments of the extreme class, who assert 
propositions, establish hypothesis, and make
deductions therefrom that cannot be sustained
by sound, philosophic reasons, but are in direct 
opposition to all true and correct principles.
Our fitness and adaptability for the various
positions of life is determined by and is in per-
fect harmony with our physical organizations,
as the mental powers are in harmony with and
not adverse to our physical structure. If they
were not disaster and destruction would neces-
sarily follow, and life cease to be. If the world
of mankind, and womankind, too, understood
this principle correctly they would know that
our right to the occupancy of place and posi-
tion, in short, that our true sphere is deter-
mined by our powers of creation.
	This idea, novel as it may be, will bear the
closest scrutiny and the severest criticism; be-
cause it is founded in truth, and is a full and
complete answer to all the theories that are ad-

[Column 2]

vanced upon the much vexed question of
"woman's rights." But as I am only writing for
the women of Mormondom I need not enlarge
upon this point, because there is no serious
discussion among our sisters upon these ques-
tions that are so universally agitated in the
outside world.
	The influence of women upon society at
large is recognized as very powerful, but more
directly is this felt in the home circle, whether
as daughter, sister, wife or mother. There are
among women, as among men, leading spirits;
those who possess minds filled with progressive
thoughts and ideas, and if circumstances de-
prove them from the legitimate exercise of these
natural endowments, then is society not only 
the loser, but these individuals are apt to
chafe and fret, dissatisfied alike with them-
selves, as well as the world at large, and yet,
perhaps, unable to assign a cause for their dis-
satisfaction. On the other hand there are some
who are full of vanity, conceit and foolish
ambition, who force themselves into places they
are totally unfit to fill. Such are the anomal-
ies that are presented in this life, and never
will be fully corrected until God reveals the
true order of things as relating to both man and
woman.
	But it is the influence of women upon society
in the midst of the Latter-day Saints to which
I desire to call special attention. There are
many evils that exist among us that I believe
women are capable of correcting, and to a
great extent are capable of removing. I would 
go further still, and say there are many evils
that their influence might prevent, which is
far better than to correct those which already
exist.
	Woman, as a mother, may be said to have
reached the goal of her earthly existence, for
here, it seems to me, is the place where she has
ample scope for the exercise of those latent
powers which develop and draw out the full
force of all her endowments, both physical and
mental, and in the exercise of which her joy is
made full and complete. As a mother she is a 
more considerate and tender daughter, and her
parents are robbed of no part of her affection
by herself becoming a mother; whereas to-
wards her husband, that intense feeling of love
which rewarded wedlock brings, never would
have exhibited itself had offspring been denied
her, and duty to a husband is not forgotten by
any true woman because of the extra care that
children brings. Here is the true foundation
of society—the state—the nation; and here,
also, is determined its quality, be it good or bad.
Wise statesmanship, necessary in all good gov-
ernments; integrity and honesty in business;
ability, and all the virtues that adorn man and
woman in all the various positions they occupy,
can be traced to, and is the result of the care
and training of good, wise, prudent and loving
mothers. This being the case, even in the out-
side world, what course should the mothers in
Israel pursue who are entrusted with the care
and training of the future children of Zion,
who have been born legal heirs to the Priest-
hood, and in whose lives should not only be
perpetuated the powers, but the righteousness
of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, and their wives
also, in whom all the kingdoms of the earth
will be blessed.
	Women, favored of God as ours are with
such precious jewels, have no need to spend
their time in unprofitable controversy upon the
securing of rights which the heavens will most


[Column 1]

assuredly secure to every faithful mother in
Israel; but rather should she devote her time
to the proper culture and correct training of
her offspring, and thus secure her future happi-
ness as well as her present enjoyment in the
honorable representation such children will
bring her.
	I pity the woman that feels that the care and
training of children is a burden, an irksome
task, and who gives into the hands of the
stranger that labor to be performed, which
should be the greatest joy of her life. In pro-
portion as this duty is neglected, so will
mothers feel condemned when they see the re-
sult of such neglect in their unworthy children.
But should such neglected children develop
worthy traits and honorable lives the reflection
must come to her that it is the result of other
causes than her motherly care and judicious
training. On the other hand, should any of
her children prove recreant and unworthy she
will still have the satisfaction of knowing that
she has done her duty, and this reflection will
assuage her grief and soothe her disappoint-
ment.
	Those mothers are indeed to be pitied whose
entire time is spent in providing,what we term,
nice food and fine clothing for her children,
and have no spare moments in which to im-
prove their minds and teach them the princi-
ples of eternal life. They may plead as an
excuse that society demands the former at their
hands, thus leaving no time for the latter.
	Then here it is that we would ask that
woman's influence be brought to bear to correct 
a grievous wrong, and let that influence be
universal, for we cannot afford to sacrifice such.
God-like traits at the shrine of the very fashion-
able demands of society; let us rather return
to simple food and raiment, both of which are
more healthful and more pleasing to our Hea-
venly Father.
	Women and children are slaves to society,
and the slavery is becoming more intolerable
every day. Luxurious tastes and habits are
evils in more ways than one. How many
young people are deterred from marrying be-
cause they cannot commence life with as good
a showing as to home,furnishings,appointments,
etc, that are at least the equal, if not the su-
perior, of their friends and acquaintances. To
start out in life as her mother did would be
humiliating in the extreme, for if the bride is
a competent housewife, (which, however,is not
always the case) still society demands that she
employ a servant to do her work. Instead of
her home being rendered doubly dear by fur-
nishing and embellishments as the result of her
own handiwork,the upholsterer and others have
supplied every necessary, except a few trifling
nick-nacks. Too often the time of a young
wife is spent in unprofitable visits, or in the
pursuit of pleasures and enjoyments that she
must provide in return, no matter at what cost
or sacrifice, and all to satisfy the demands of
society.
	We have our progressive Euchre and fashion-
able card parties, as well as other gatherings
that are not at all remarkable for their sim-
plicity, or their intellectual enjoyment. Some
excuse themselves for these indulgences be-
cause dancing now-a-days is too tame, shorn, as
it is,of the fashionable (but health-destroying)
waltz,polka and schottische,which excuse means
that we are determined to copy after the ways
of the world, and should it be forbidden in
one thing, we will introduce another.
	All these things have their tendency to evil,
and woman's influence can be used, if she so
desire, to check the growth of many of these
practices, and thus save much heart sorrow in
the future.
	While I believe we should seek to make
home the happiest and most desirable place on
theearth, by furnishing every legitimate amuse-
ment and pleasure, yet it is at home, also, where

[Column 2]

God should be taught, as well as the principles
of our holy religion. This labor should not be
left exclusively to the Sabbath School, the Prim-
ary Association, or the preacher upon the
Sabbath day, but let parents, in the after life
of their children, receive the credit due for a
faithful performance of their duty in this re-
gard. We need not be afraid of our children
becoming too religious for the tendency is in
the opposite direction, and an unceasing dili-
gence on our part will secure to them no more
of this element than they will absolutely
need. 	
	We might continue this subject, and I think
profitably, to a much greater length, but this
is enough for one article, and the writer hopes
it may receive the consideration which its im-
portance demands.
