SENSIBLE TALK.

	A talk with wise judges and law-makers, and
he who kissed the lids of his mother's gilt edged 

[Column 2]

good old Bible. We will open and read on its
sacred pages and kiss the leaves within, where-
on is written and stamped, that God blessed
men and women who entered into the marriage
relation as the Latter-day Saints are practicing
it now. That divine law was given to the an-
cients by the great Law-Giver, who rules the
destinies of kings, presidents, potentates, and
the destinies of nations; who will turn and over-
turn all things to suit His own purposes; who
has power to set up kingdoms and overthrow
the mighty powers of the earth; and if the in-
habitants of the earth will not hear and listen to
the last message sent to them through prophets,
revelators and ministers who hold divine au-
thority to preach the everlasting Gospel to the
nations of the earth in this last dispensation of
the fulness of times, the great God will come
out of His hiding place and vex the nations with
a sore vexation. Already war and devastation
is stalking abroad in the land, and thunderings,
earthquakes, fire and vapors of smoke will arise
with a louder and more stupendous voice than
a man can utter, but their testimony will stand
and live forever, for their words are eternal
truths that cannot be altered.
	No man on earth can change the decree of the
true and living God, who has called upon all
mankind to repent of their sins and turn to
newness of life, and fill their bottles with new
wine and have oil in their lamps, which is the
Holy Ghost, "To lead them into all truth, show
them things past, present and to come," which
power, authority and knowledge is given to men
who are now persecuted, fined, imprisoned and
harassed for the word of God and the testimony
of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. It says in
sacred writ "that every word shall be established
by two or three witnesses." How much more,
then, will the testimony of thousands of Latter-
day Saints be established, who have reiterated
and declared that the kingdom of God is again
set up on the earth, no more to be thrown down
nor given to another people. That these things
of which we speak have been done by divine
command, by holy messengers who have been
seen and conversed with at different times.
God says in Isaiah "that he will do His work,
His strange work, and bring to pass His act,His
strange act, a marvelous work and a wonder,"
etc.
	I will quote from Psalms, as the language
shows God's power over all things: "The Lord
hath prepared His throne in all the heavens,
and His kingdom ruleth over all. Bless the
Lord, ye, His angels, that excel in strength,that
do his commandments, hearkening unto the
voice of his word.
	"Bless ye the Lord, all ye His hosts, ye minis-
ters of His that do his pleasure.
	"Bless the Lord, all his works in all places of
His domain; bless the Lord, O my soul!"
	The Latter-day Saints believe that God has
all power in heaven and on the earth; that He is
the same yesterday, to-day and forever; that He
will gather all things into one, both things in
heaven and on the earth, and that He has set
His hand again to accomplish His work, to
make an end of sin, and bring in a reign of
righteousness.
	If the President will turn to Romans, iv; 13,
and read—"That Abraham should be heir of the
world through the righteousness of faith." That
he is the heir, and cohabited with Hagar and
Sarah, and of these two wives had Ishmael and
Isaac, and God talked with Abraham face to
face. Did God accuse him of committing a
crime? No, indeed, but blessed his children of
both wives, and said to him, "I know him, that
he will command his children and his household
after him." So Jacob must have been command-
ed of his grandparent to marry plural wives, for
unto Jacob the promise was made, and he ac-

[Column 3]

knowledged unto Esau, "The children God hath
so graciously given thy servant," Genesis
xxxiii; 5.
	Do our law-makers think God will approve of
these unlawful proceedings, when it is most
natural and consistent to believe that God wil
choose a people that are willing and obedient, to
raise up seed to Abraham. How can these men
stand in the presence of the great patriarch and
the Savior of the world, who justified them and
said their seed should be as numerous as the
stars in the firmament? And Jacob was called
Israel became of his numerous posterity, and
the names of his twelve sons, making the
twelve tribes, should be written on the twelve
gates of the New Jerusalem. How can they
enter through those gates? John says there are
twelve angels there at the gates. When they
fine and imprison the very men and women
that God has commanded to practice this order 
of marriage, and says this is the only law of
marriage that He will acknowledge in time and
eternity; but eternal life is a free gift to all who
will obey His word and enter in at the door. If
we try to climb up any other way than that
which has been appointed by the Savior we shall
be accounted thieves and robbers. Will the au-
thorities of the land make the Latter-day Saints
climb into the kingdom of heaven as thieves
and robbers, when the good Shepherd has made
the straight and narrow way so plain "that a
poor way-faring man need not err though a
fool?" The cry of our enemies is, only two per
cent who practice plural marriage can be saved.
A President stands at the head of a nation, and
Abraham and his children stand at the head of
nations; for he that abideth a celestial law shall
have a celestial glory. There is no private inter-
pretation put upon Scripture. He says to all
follow me; I am the life and the light; keep my
commandments by your works or your faith is
dead.
	The God of heaven gave the ten command-
ments; He gave laws to the house of Israel; the
Savior gave commandments in the Gospel plan
of salvation to His servants to establish His
kingdom and save mankind, and He changed
them not. In the last times in which we live
He has given authority to men to establish it
for ever. The invitation is to all. "Go ye into
all the world and preach the Gospel to every
creature; he that believeth and is baptized, re-
penting and forsaking his sins, shall be saved,"
etc. Read last chapters of St. Matthew and
Mark. Read all Scripture and you can get a
correct understanding of the Gospel as our
Savior taught it when He was on the earth. We
must obey the law of the Gospel and its ordin-
ances, to be benefited in this life and the world
to come. Though the world spurn these things
they are verily true. The door into the kingdom
of God is baptism for the remission of sins. The
Savior says He entered in by the door, and the
porter must hold the keys of the holy Priest-
hood to open the door to believers. "For no
man taketh this honor to himself; he must be
called of God as was Aaron." By men taking
this honor to themselves, they have changed
the ordinances and broken the everlasting cove-
nant, and preached for hire and divined for
money; but what little good has been done in
the religious world, has been by the divine
teachings of our Savior, which should be em-
bodied in all things; but the time is now when
they are legislatured against us, and the cry is
"Great is the goddess Diana of the Ephesians."
And an inscription is raised to the unknown
God, and if we do not worship at these shrines
we must be imprisoned. We do not want to be
packed in their peck measures, nor deny the
sacred word which we revere. We do not want
our sons and daughters to become infidels by
swearing against a principle that is the very


foundation of Bible doctrine. The mothers of
these children have labored hard to teach them
that what is written in the Old and New Testa-
ment is true and will have a bearing on their
eternal destiny; and that they sprung from these
plural marriages away back to the Patriarchs,
and that they must not deny their original an-
cestry, but keep an eye to the mark; that they
must do the works of Abraham to become his
children; and according to the New Testament
he did the works of righteousness.
	Our motto is reform and regeneration, to cease
from all evil, lead pure and holy lives, that we
may be prepared to meet our Savior at His
second advent to the earth, for it reads, “This
same Jesus whom ye saw ascend up into heaven
shall in like manner descend from heaven;” and
He will come in the clouds of heaven, with all
the holy angels with Him, and every eye shall
see Him.
	Why cannot the Latter day Saints be left
alone to enjoy their mountain home, that they
have so diligently labored for, and left to read
their Bible and understand it as God is its inter-
preter.
	“Know this, that every man is free
	To choose his life, or what he’ll he;
	For this eternal truth is given,
	That God will force no man to heaven.

	He'll call, persuade, direct him right,
	Bless him with wisdom, love and light;
	In nameless ways be good and kind,
	But never force the human mind.”

	We pray that He may enlighten our minds,
enlarge our understandings, that we may learn
more fully of His ways and walk In His paths.
	MARY ANN M. PRATT.
Salt Lake City, April 24th, 1885.


