EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE had the pleasure of attending the the an-
nual meeting of the Relief Society of the 19th
Ward of this city, on Tuesday, May 5th, at two


p.m., Mrs. Rachel Whipple presiding. The
minutes and annual report were read and ap-
proved, and the meeting was addressed by Sis-
ters E. S. Taylor, H. M. Whitney, E. B. Wells,
M. I. Horne, L. W. Kimball, C. C. Raleigh,Ann
Player, H. P. Fulsom J. McKinny, Bishop
Watson, Bro. Bowman and Prest. Whipple. It
was an interesting meeting, and a good spirit
prevailed throughout. The Society have a very
good and comfortable building of their own, and
have done an immense work for the needy in
the ward, which is a very large one, and their
labors are greatly appreciated by their Bishop,
with whom they work in the most complete
harmony.
	THE recent decision of the Supreme Court of
United States in the Utah cases is certainly a
very important ruling, and should be carefully
read and studied by the people of Utah—women
as well as men, because much is involved in the
interpretation of its proceedings that is of vital
interest to this people. The part which relates
to the registration and elections is one that de-
mands immediate attention, as it gives to some
that were heretofore excluded from the polls, the
right to register and vote, but there are certain
rules and regulations which have a special
bearing upon this matter, which render it posi-
tively necessary that every person should under-
stand intelligently whether he or she is entitled
to register or not. It is such a complicated
matter that it would be very easy for a person
to make an innocent mistake, which might have
a very serious result. In view of the doubtful
points to those who are unsophisticated in such
matters, yet anxious to exercise the right of
franchise, it seems wisdom to say, "Be sure you
are right, and then go ahead." There is cer-
tainly need of every vote that can legally be cast,
but let all things be done in accordance with the
regulations given to govern these matters, so
that there can be no "after-claps."
	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT has now completed
its thirteenth volume. It was established on
the first day of June, 1872, and has been issued
twice every month from that day until the
present time. It has most certainly been a
blessing and help to the women of Zion, and has
also been the means, in many instances, of as-
sisting, indirectly, to proclaim the glad tid-
ings of salvation. The opinions, views and
sentiments of the women of Zion have been ex-
pressed to the world through its columns, and
their organizations well represented. It has
been the earnest and careful endeavor of those
engaged in the labors connected with this jour-
nal, to make it representative and reliable, as a
religious paper, and the greatest attention has
been given to keeping its pages free from any-
thing that would have the slightest tendency to
evil of any name or nature. It gives the oppor-
tunity for "Mormon" women to express their
feelings on any matter connected with woman's
work, and has been the promoter of literary cul-
ture, as can be proven, when we refer to the
crude articles from the pen of some of its con-
tributors, who to-day can express themselves in
the most able and eloquent manner, and whose
articles, graphically written, and possessing the
elements of literary strength, are attracting the
attention of all the Latter-day Saints. The
WOMAN'S EXPONENT does carry joy into many
a household, and the sisters, in their country
homes, many of them, testify that they look
forward to its coming as to the face of an old
and dear friend. Homely it may be, but genuine
in character and staunch in integrity to the Gos-
pel and its principles.


