[Column 2]
Nelson magnamiously placed the lecture
hall at the disposal of the sisters for their
noble enterprise at such time as would be
suitable to them, and for this great favor
we of the Stake board of the Relief Society
tender him a vote of thanks, which all the
sisters, I know, will heartily endorse. Now
sisters, this hall will be free of charge un-
less we should desire to hold evening ses-
sions, when we would only have to pay for
the lights. As it is so central, and easily
reached from all the cars it will be appreci-
ated by all. It is in the Templeton and is
reached by the elevator.”
	President Horne here introduced Dr.
Roberts who said: “I pray that I may
make this matter clear to you, I feel that
the Relief Society is doing a good work,
yet I have seen so many who have lacked
good nursing that this thought entered my
heart, to aid those who could not pay in get-
ting good nurses. I am pleased that the
Relief Society board feel as I do about this
matter, it is pleasing to see and feel alike
with our sisters who have carried this bur-
den so long. I think the Relief Society
should lead out in this matter, we have
trained nurses with us today who earn $25
a week and we have good, bright young
ladies, many of them educated at our col-
leges and universities, who could become
just as competent. A nurse should know
as much as wives and mothers, and I feel
that no woman should become a mother un-
til she knows how to take care of her baby.
I am willing to devote my time to this
class and do my very best work, but I want
you to understand that the girls will neith-
er be doctors nor surgeons, but they can
be proficient in everything that can be
learned outside of a hospital. The ages of
those you select can range from eighteen to
forty, but they must be strictly, honest and
truthful, these are two grand requisites
for a nurse, I also think a nurse should be
sweet looking and sympathetic, so that the
sick one feels better as soon as she enters
the room. I think when we get through
with this class they will say that they have
some faith, for that is much required
around the sick. I commence this work
under the auspices of the Stake board of
the Relief Society, so you will know who
is behind me. Lately I have read in the
journals that 2,000 nurses have graduated for
that vocation with honor. After these sis-
ters are chosen we will meet together and
decide upon the days and the hour that
would suit the majority.”
	President Zina D. H. Young said she
heartily endorsed the movement looking to
the betterment of the poor and suffering.
“I have done this work all my life from
girlhood, I want these sisters to have wis-
dom and faith then refreshings will come
to you sisters and education too. We need
to be humble and faithful and have prayer-
ful hearts. I shall never forget while I
live and it thrills through me yet, when I
saw the Prophet Joseph turn his hand
saying ‘I now turn the key for women,’
and I testify that it has been so. If as
mothers we have obedience we will have
obedient children, those who come here to
lay up stores of knowledge; our mission is a
holy one, by coming to these meetings we
learn to know the Holy Spirit, and if as a
woman our work is well done it will be
just as acceptable as a man’s. No one on
earth respects a woman more than the Holy
Priesthood do, but let us be careful that we
do not take privileges unto ourselves that

[Column 3]
do not belong to us. I have been so care-
ful in this, never to touch what did not be-
long to me any more than I would handle
fire. Mothers look to your children and re-
member that they learn more in nine weeks
before they get here than they do in nine
years afterwards, do not be over anxious
but improve the day and the Lord will bless
Zion’s mothers and daughters.”
	Counselor B. W. Smith said she also
heartily endorsed this movement. “I hope
the sisters will rally to the call and be a ray
of sunshine in the home of the sick, good
nursing will be sought for and I pray God’s
blessing on the class.”
	President Horne said: “Now we have the
authority of Sisters Young and Smith I
would like to hear from the ward presidents
to know how they feel about it.” The
presidents of eighteen city wards and seven
country wards responded, heartily endorsed
the movement and promised aid and sup-
port inthe matter.
	Dr. Roberts said she felt that the sisters
should be called as missionaries be-
cause they wanted to do good. “I believe
the day will come when you will be proud
to wear the cap and apron of the Relief
Society corps of nurses. The course will
take from six to eight months.” Said that
she desired the work to be under the super-
vision of the Stake board of the Relief
Society whom she wished to meet with her
and the sisters chosen.
	It was voted that the presidents should
make their selection of the sisters during
the coming week, and that they meet with
Dr. Roberts and the Stake board of the Re-
lief Society at the Templeton on Saturday,
May 2, at 2 p. m. to organize. Four
students from each ward will be admitted.
The meeting was adjourned, Stake confer-
ence announced to be held in the Assembly
hall June 4, at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m., sing-
ing “Come let us anew,” and benediction
pronounced by Sister Lydia D. Alder.
LYDIA D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


