[Column 2]
helping on the people along these lines of
higher thought, higher education and great-
er enlightenment.
	Those who are familiar with the business
matters of the papers published in Salt Lake
City know what financial embarrassments
there have been to battle with, and how diffi-
cult it has been to keep going.
	To come down to the little paper, the
“Woman’s Exponent,” and tell its readers
how it has championed the cause of the wo-
men of this intermountain region would take
far too much time and space. Certainly
the Latter-day Saint women ought to know
and to realize that the greatest efforts have
been and are being made to keep it alive;
and surely its record has been for the eleva-
tion and education of women along all the
lines of progressive thought and general in-
formation, and the encouragement of home
industries and home culture.
	As a matter of fact some of the ablest
authors and writers among the young people
began their literary work in the columns of
the “Woman’s Exponent.” The letters that
have been received from time to time show-
ing the interest taken in this little paper are
proof direct of the importance of its mission
to those outside of the Church; and to the
sisters and Elders on missions there is abun-
dant testimony of its value. Recently the
editor received a letter from Amsterdam ask-
ing that a complete file of the “Woman’s
Exponent” be furnished for the Exhibition
which will be held at the Hague during the
coming summer of Woman’s Industries and
subjects concerning the woman’s question.
This is the fifth call of this kind, though it
is the first from a foreign country, and will
be responded to as soon as possible.
	This number of the paper completes the
26th year of its publication, and what ad-
vantage it has been to the women of this
region of country and particularly to the 
women of Zion can never be estimated.
However, let us all hope that the future
may be more hopeful, and that those en-
gaged in the various branches and along
the several lines of woman’s work and pro-
gressive thought may see the importance of
a paper that makes a specialty of recogniz-
ing women’s organizations and of keeping
in touch with the interests of women
generally and encouraging all higher, purer
and better living according to higher laws
in the home and in the great world of man-
kind.


