A MOTHERS’ CONGRESS.

	There was a well attended meeting of
ladies at the rooms of the Woman’s Club,
in the joint building on the morning of May
10, and a State organization was effected to
be known as the Utah State Mothers’ Con-
gress.
	Mrs. Maynard as temporary chairman ex-
plained the object of the meeting. Mrs.
Selden I. Clawson was appointed tempor-
ary secretary.
	Mrs. L. C. Trent moved that a Mothers’
Congress for the State of Utah be held
at Salt Lake City, the time and place to be
hereafter decided.
	Mrs. C. E. Allen spoke at some length
upon the necessity existing for a movement
of the kind now contemplated. Miss Mary
C. May also expressed her interest in the
undertaking and especially stated her anx-
iety to do something for young women—
unmarried women, as well as for mothers,
and that this movement should prove of
benefit to both classes. Mrs. Parsons re-
ferred to the first mothers’ meeting held in
this city about thirteen years ago, and was
glad to note that the present effort at or-
ganization was likely to prove successful.
Mrs. F. D. Kimball expressed great inter-
est in the congress and hoped that good re-
sults would attend its efforts.
	Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells appreciated the
great amount of help the congress could
give mothers, in whose interests we had
been working for many years. This move-
ment was looked upon as a new one in the
United States, but the facts were that the
Relief Society of Utah had been carrying on
successfully a similar work for many years
past. The present movement could not
be otherwise than of great benefit to mothers.
	Dr. Mattie Hughes Cannon expressed her
willingness to do all in her power to assist
in bringing the present movement to a suc-
cessful working basis; and like the previous
speaker Dr. Cannon mentioned the good
work which has been done by the Relief
Society in this State in years gone by and
up to the present time in the proper teach-
ing of mothers and daughters.
	Mrs. Emily S. Richards felt that the wo-
men present, while among the busiest in
Utah, were the proper ones to carry this
movement on to success.
	Mrs. McVicker indicated her great in-
terest in the present movement and said
that she would lend her best aid to bring
it to a successful working order.
	Mrs. H. S. Young was deeply interested
in this congress and expressed a willing-
ness to assist in the work among the young-
er persons to be benefited by the congress.
The speaker being already engaged in
the kindergarten work to a great extent,
she would be pleased to help in a similar
direction in the present movement. 
	Mrs. J. C. Weeter of Park City pledged
the interest and assistance of the ladies in
her town to this movement. Mrs. Freeze
said how much she was interested in this
work and the motion that was previously
made to hold a Mothers’ Congress in this
city was carried.
	Mrs. Parsons moved that a committee of
three be appointed by the chair to make
nominations for officers. This motion was
amended by Mrs. Wells so that the com-
mittee would consist of seven instead of
three members, and then the motion carried
and the chair appointed Masdames E. H.
Parsons, H. S. Young, C. E. Allen, J. E.
Bamberger, L. C. Trent, F. D. Kimball,

