[Column 2]
for a short period and that all may return
safely.
	If this be a righteous war, a struggle for
human liberty, then men who go forth
have a right to expect that the Lord will
over-rule and preserve those engaged in
His work. He is able to care for those who
go, on the sea and on the land, who put
their trust in Him and have faith in His
guidance and protection.
	The first company of Utah Volunteers
took their departure May 15, to join Col.
Torrey’s regiment at Ft. Russell near Chey-
enne, in charge of Gen. John Q. Cannon.
Eighty-four picked men, who were all ex-
pected to be excellent riders and good
marksmen. They went without any parade
of banners or music, no display of any sort
yet these brave boys are expected to go into
the heat of the battle, into the most danger-
ous places; it was as though the citizens did
not realize the situation; many regrets have
been expressed since that they were allowed
to go without any sort of patriotic demonstra-
tion, but while all were outwardly calm,
many fervent prayers were quietly offered
up and blessings wafted to heaven as the
train pulled out of the depot bearing the
loved ones away.
	On May 20th the two companies of artill-
ery, Battery A. and Battery B. that had been
recruiting and drilling at Camp Kent broke
camp and marched to the depot—bands of
music, flags from all the available places,
and the National Guard in uniform and
crowds of citizens and school children lined
the streets cheering and showing every dem-
onstration of respect, admiration and patriot-
ism—the University and Latter day Saints
colleges with their handsome flags and ban-
ners made a most effective display. Captain
Richard W. Young and Captain F. J. Grant
werein charge of the Companies.
	Committees of ladies who had been dili-
gently working in the interest of the Volun-
teers beforehand were at the station and
served coffee, cakes and sandwiches to offic-
ers and men, not omiting any; the cars had
been handsomely decorated by the ladies
with small flags, streamers and bunting, al-
so lilacs, snowballs and other flowers of the
season. Everything that could be done to
make it an occasion pleasant to look back
upon by the boys when far away seemed to
have been thought out and accomplished.
	The Guidons given by the Cleofan to each
campany were conspicuously in evidence
and made an attractive feature in the display
	On Tuesday, May 24, the last company
of Utah.Volunteers under Captain Caine
of the Cavalry left Camp Kent, having been
ordered to San Francisco. The day was not
very fine but yet crowds of patriotic people
waited on the streets to cheer and give them
honor as they passed on their way to the
depot on horseback in uniform, bands were
playing and banners and flags waving and
every demonstration of respect shown them
and the goodbyes farewells and God bless
you continuous and heartfelt. The cars
were beautifully decorated by the commit-
tee of ladies and the committee on refresh-
ments accompanied the Cavalry men to
Ogden and served refreshments on the
train.


