WEBER STAKE
	The minutes of the Relief Society confer-
ence held in the 3rd ward of Ogden City,
March 10, 1898. At the morning session
those present on the stand were President
Jane S. Richards and her counselors, Sister
Harriet Brown and Sister Emily Shurtliff
President Zina D. H. Young, Sister
Lightner and Sister Emily S. Richards of
Salt Lake City.
	Sister Richards was pleased to see so
many here this morning and desired that we
might be blessed and put into practice the
good things that we hear.
	Remarks were made by Counselors Har-
riet Brown and Emily Shurtliff.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young addressed the
meeting, said when she looked over the
congregation and saw before her faces that
had gone through trials and hardships in
days gone by, she felt that the sisters had
met to be fed spiritual food, and that the
Lord gave us lessons of experience that we
might gain spiritual strength; spoke of the
time when the Saints were on the move and
of the sickness that was among them, and
how the healing power was given to the
Prophet Joseph. She wanted the mothers to
teach the daughters purity and love and the
principles of the Gospel of Christ
	Sister Emily S. Richards was the next
speaker and said she felt very happy to meet
with the sisters, was almost too full to ex-
press her feelings. She knew that the Lord
loved His people but felt we were rather
slothful in our duties; spoke to the mothers
about reading to their children that their
little minds might be filled with good things.
	Sister Lightner said she knew we had been
blest by the instruction given this morning
and felt we should be thankful to our Heaven-
ly Father for every blessing we enjoy, we
have received the Gospel and should strive
with all our hearts to do our duty that we
may have unity of soul and partake of all its
blessings, prayed that the Lord would
strengthen us today.
	Elder Nathan Tanner spoke to the sisters
and gave them some good counsel, advised
them to call upon the Lord for His healing
power.
	Afternoon session. Opened by singing
“We thank Thee O, God for a prophet.”
Roll was called, twenty-one presidents were
present. Among the speakers were Sisters
Hunter, Dance, Newman, West, Monch and
Driver.
	Sister Zina D. Young spoke on our sacred
prayers, visiting the sick and suffering to
comfort them, hoped to see the day when
the sisters would have a house dedicated to
the Lord for the sisters to meet in, spoke of
the Savior and what He suffered for us, ad-
vised the sisters to pay their tithing and
never neglect to watch and instruct their
daughters, said we were all in a school and
our Heavenly Father was the teacher, asked
the Lord to bless us all.
	Elder George Larkin was the next
speaker, said he was struck by a remark of
Sister Young’s, that we should listen to the
promptings of the Holy Spirit that we might
have power over our children, encouraged
the sisters to be faithful to the cause of truth.
	President Jane S. Richards felt the day

[Column 3]
was too short but realized we could have
good reflections when night came, and asked
the Lord to bless all the sisters with the
spirit of the Gospel.
	The officers of the Relief Society were pre-
sented and sustained and conference adjourn-
ed for three months by singing the Doxology
C. E. DRIVER. Asst. Sec.

