This seems to us to be a step in the right
direction. The Relief Society has been
sorely taxed in the years that are past to
obtain nurses when the demand for them
was so urgent, and now Dr. Robert’s offer
to instruct this class is highly appreciated.
We spend thousands of dollars annually to
send missionaries abroad to preach the Gos-
pel, now this is an opportunity to do mis-
sionary work at home among the poor as
well as those blessed with this world’s
goods; and sisters, do not try to get the
pay for all you do in this life, be willing to
do as Jesus taught, lay up treasures in
heaven ‘Where moth nor rust cannot enter,
nor thieves break through and steal.’ Look
at our organizations; we are organized from
youth to old age, yet some cannot be con-
trolled, will be subject to no law; and so it
will be until evil is swept from the earth.
Some of our sisters are sent abroad as mis-
sionaries now, set apart for that work and,
as I read in the paper, were appointed to
their field of labor as the brethren are, but
they cannot baptize nor lay on hands for
the gift of the Holy Ghost, but neither can
our brethren who do not hold that order of
priesthood; but they can preach the Gospel
and do much good. We have our own
agency and can choose either to do good or
evil, and they cannot be controlled any
more than our Heavenly Father could
control His children in the heavens above,
when one third rebelled and were cast out
from his presence. But we should learn to
do good. When this Society was organized
in Nauvoo the Prophet Joseph instructed
us that our mission was to our own selves,
but we should always be ready to help the
poor and the weak of every color and clime
Now in this subject we are considering we
have the approbation and ‘God blessing’ of
our brethren both those of the First Presid-
ency and the Presidency of the Stake. The
course of study will consist of say three
lessons a week, and one public lecture for
the benefit of young mothers and all those
who are desirous of learning some of the
laws of life and health, also how to take
care of the children that God has entrusted
to their care. Bishop Taylor of the 14th
ward has kindly offered a room in the wing
of this building for these lectures, but a
committee was formed to call upon Prof.
Nelson of the L. D. S. Business college
with a view of securing the newly-fitted up,
beautiful lecture room for the purpose. Prof.

