[Column 2]
	Under the present competetive system ex-
istence is a continual war, the law is each
one for himself, starvation and death for-
the hindmost! My message today to our
coadjutors is that we have a higher duty
than the demand for suffrage; we must now
at the end of fifty years of faithful service,
broaden our platform and consider the next
step in progress, to which the signs of the
times clearly point—namely, co-operation,
a new principle in industrial economies.
We see that the right of suffrage avails
nothing for the masses, in competetion
with the wealthy classes and, worse still,
with each other. Women all over the
country are working earnestly in many
fragmentary reforms, each believing that
her own if achieved would usher in a new
day of peace and plenty. With woman
suffrage, temperance, social purity, rigid
Sunday laws and physical culture, could
any or all be successful, we should see no
change in the condition of the masses We
need all these reforms and many more to
make existence endurable. What is life to-
day to the prisoner in his lonely cell? to the
feeble hands that keep time to the machin-
ery in all our marts of trade? to those who
have no abiding place, no title to one foot
of land on this green earth? Such are the-
fruits of competition. Our next experiment
is to be made on the broad principle of co-
operation. At the end of fifty years whose
achievements we celebrate here today, let
us reason together as to the wisdom of lay-
ing some new planks to our plat-
form.
	The co-operation idea will remodel some
codes and constitutions, creeds and cate-
chisms, social customs and conventional-
isms, the curriculum of schools and colleges;
it will give a new sense of Justice, Liberty
and Equality in all the relations of life.
Those who have eyes to see recognize the
fact that the period for all these fragment-
ary is ended. Agitation of the broader
question of philosophical socialism is now
in order. The next step in progress has
long been foreshadowed by our seers and
prophets from Mazzini and Fourier to
Thomas Paine and Henry George; and is
now being agitated by able thinkers
and writers in all of the civilized coun-
tries.
	“The few have no right to the luxuries
of life, while the many are denied the nec-
essities.” This motto is the natural out-
growth of the one so familiar on our plat-
form and in our official paper “Equal rights
for all” under our present competitive sys-
tern. “All men are born free with equal
right to life, liberty and happiness.” The
natural outgrowth of this sentiment is the
vital principle of Christian religion—“Love
thy neighbor as thyself.” In broad liberal
principles the Suffrage Association should be
the leader of thought for women, and not
narrow its platform from year to year to
one idea, rejecting all relative ideas as side
issues.
	“Progress is the victory of a new thought
over old superstition.”
ELIZABETH CADY STANTON.
—Ex.


