OUR PROPHET.

	Will you allow me to tell you that you
are not acquainted with Mormonism until
you learn who our prophet is, and what
the errand was which he brought to this
world? You will remember that John the
Baptist came to prepare the way for our
Savior when he came the first time, teach-
ing them to repent for the kingdom of
heaven was at hand. He also said they
should bring forth fruits meet for repen-
tance, for according to the old proverb:
“Actions speak louder than words,” and
show your sincerity.
	Then came the publicans to be baptized,
saying “Master what shall we do?” Luke
3rd chapter, 12th verse. He said, “Exact
no more than that which is appointed you.”
And the soldiers asked him, saying “And
what shall we do?” and he answered, “Do
violence to no man, neither accuse any false-
ly; and be content with your wages.”
Thus teaching them to “deal justly, love
mercy and walk humbly.” These being the
prominent features of our lesson which
Jesus taught to bring peace on earth and
good will to humanity.
	Now we learn in Acts, 1st chapter 9th,
10th, 11th verses, that “A cloud received
Him out of their sight, and two men in
white apparel stood by who said, ‘Why
stand ye gazing up into heaven? this same
Jesus which is taken up from you, shall so
come in like manner as ye have seen Him
go up into heaven.’ ”
	We also have the testimony of those
apostles with whom he was speaking, and
telling them of the comforter, the Holy
Ghost, he would send to them. Can we
doubt their words? Oh no! we know he
will come in like manner as they saw him
go up; and we also know that our prophet
Joseph Smith has come to prepare his way
before him again, and the message he
brings is an important one I can assure you.
	He tells us the same that we read in
Holy Writ, that our Savior will bring a
company with him at the time of his
second advent, and must find a people of
the same character as those who come with
him. Yes they must be purified and sanc-
tified by the same laws that his disciples
were, and all those who love and obey his
laws will rejoice and arise to meet them and
welcome them in joy and rejoicing, to be-
hold his face and hear his voice.
	This people St. Peter tells us must be
pure, for God is pure; they must be holy,
for he is holy. They must worship him in
spirit and in truth, for he seeketh such to
worship him.
	Now I would ask do not you think it
necessary for a prophet to come to prepare
such a people for this, great event? Do


you think such a people could be found in
these last days without a teacher? Food
for thought.
