[Column 2]
	Dear Mr. McKinley we beg the privileg
of suggesting that, in the evolution of the
conception of honor, and of the modes by
which honor may be defended and main-
tained, our nation has made no less pro-
gress than have the men belonging to it.
It has long since ceased to be regarded as
possible that a man may find the defense of
his honor in slaying his enemy, however of-
fensive and unjustifiable the conduct of that
enemy may have been. We think that it
is equally impossible that the honor of our
nation can be maintained by the destruction
of a sister nation. We think it impossible
that the death of 260 brave and innocent
men who found death in the disaster of the
Maine can be atoned for by the death of
any number of Spaniards, or of any num-
ber of their own countrymen who should
meet and slay one another on the field of
battle.
	The organization of women which I have
the honor to represent is a federation of or-
ganizations of women, each of which is de-
voted to some work on behalf of charity,
education, religion or reform, and all of
which are united in their advocacy of the
doctrines of Social Peace and International
Arbitration.
	We feel that so soon as a man is elected
to the Presidency of the United States he is
no longer the representative merely of the
party that elected him, but that he is no
less the representative of the party that en-
deavored to defeat him. We feel also that
a man occupying the exalted position of
President of the oldest and the most power-
ful of modern Republics is no less the
representative of the women of his country
than he is the representative of the men of
his country. We also feel that the size of
our country, its numerous population, its
great wealth and the stability of its govern-
ment all unite in giving you, who are its
honored head, perfect independence of
action. We profoundly feel that the wise
and temperate maintenance of the attitude
of peace at this time by our own Govern-
ment will do much to advance a reverence
for the doctrine of peace and to inspire in
other nations the courage to practice it.
	You, President McKinley, have an op-
portunity to become, not merely the defend-
er of the rights and the honor of your own
country, but the protector and defender as
well of the sublime principle of peace for
the world.
	As it is in the name of more than one
million of women that we who represent
them send this expression of gratitude and
this petition for the maintenance of peace,
we hope that it may meet with considera-
tion; and that it may have its own feeble
share among the influences that shall hold
you firm in the midst of agitation.
I have the honor to remain
Very sincerely yours,
MAY WRIGHT SEWALL.
President of the National Council of Wo-
men of the United States.


