WEST BRANCH PRIMARY.
	According to request I send you the min-
utes of a meeting held in the Scandinavian
meeting house on May 4, 1898, for the pur-
pose of organizing a branch Primary Asso-
ciation to be known as the West Branch
Primary Association of South Cottonwood.
Present on the stand were Brothers Thomas
Wheeler and John Labrun of the bishopric,
also Brothers Charles Holm and D. B.
Jones, Sisters Camilla C. Cobb and Mary
L. Morris of the Primary Association of
the Salt Lake Stake presidency, also Sisters
S. A. Brown, M. Carruth and Labrun,
Sister S. A. Brown presiding. Singing
“Come, come ye Saints.” Prayer by
Brother T. L. Wheeler. Singing “Come
all ye sons of Zion.” Sister Elizabeth H.
Lyon, was then chosen to act as secre-
tary.
	Brother T. L. Wheeler was then called
upon to make a few opening remarks which
were very timely and instructing. He
was followed by Brother John Labrun who
gave very good instruction to parents and
officers who would be called to preside.
Brother C. Holm was the next speaker.
He said for one that he realized the neces-
sity of a branch of the Primary Association
in the west part of South Cottonwood
ward.
	Brother B. Jones was the next
speaker. He said we had several branch
organizations, and was pleased to see a
branch of the Primary Association organ-
ized as our ward was much loo large. He
was united with the previous speaker.
	Sister Camilla Cobb was the next speaker.
She spoke very encouragingly and urged
the sisters to be united and realize the im-
portance of training the children. Said to
be prayerful and humble and requested the-
sisters to unite in faith that the right sisters
might be chosen to preside in this Associa-
tion.
	Sister Mary L. Morris felt that the move
being made was one in the right direction
and gave much wise counsel.
	The name of Sister Mary E. Gilbert was
then presented by Sister Camilla Cobb as
president of the new Primary. The privi-
lege was then given to Sister Gilbert to
choose her own counselors by Brother
Wheeler. The choice fell upon Sister
Sarah Ella Jones for first counselor and Sis-
ter Antoinette Stromness for second. Pre-
vious to the choice of counselors the
name of Sister Elizabeth H. Lyon was pre-
sented by Sister Cobb as secretary for the
West Branch. The above sisters were
voted in.
	Sister Cobb urged the officers to be
prompt in their attendance at meetings and
to take a lively interest in the same, for
there was no greater work in the Church of
Jesus Christ than teaching the little ones.
Said it was work that would pay and prayed
the Lord to bless the efforts of the sisters in
charge.
	Sister Mary E. Gilbert expressed her will-
ingness to act as president of the West
Branch Primary and by the help of the
Lord to do her very best.


The above named sisters were then set
apart to their respective offices. President
Mary E. Gilbert announced that meetings
would be held Tuesday afternoons at four
o’clock. The South Cottonwood Primary
presented the West Branch with one dozen
Primary hymn books, note book and pen-
cil, for which a vote of thanks was given.
The books were handed in by Sister Sarah
A. Brown. The name of Sister Mary H.
Berg was presented as assistant secretary by
sister C. Cobb, and the vote was carried.
	Meeting adjourned until Tuesday, May
10. Singing, Doxology. Benediction by
Brother John Labrun.
