EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ERRATA:—In the poem “Hispania” pub-
lished in the last “Exponent,” the word
liberty in the last line should have been blood.


THE Relief Society conference which had
been talked of for June has been postponed
until sometime during the first part of the
month of August next, on account of the
general confusion prevailing throughout
the West as well as the East, because of the
call for volunteers for the war with Spain.
Due notice will be given previous to the
conference when the date is decided upon.
	THE ladies of this city are working dili-
gently as a temporary organization of the
Red Cross for the Volunteers, and intend as
soon as possible to organize permanently a
Red Cross Society to become auxiliary to
the National Red Cross Society. The
president pro tem is Mrs. P. J. Riter, and
there is a secretary, corresponding secre-
tary and treasurer appointed to act until a
permanent organization is effected, also an
executive committee who are authorized to
call to their aid such other assistants as are
necessary for the work in hand.
	THE committee of ladies having in
charge the entertainment given for the
benefit of the Utah volunteers have issued
the following card of thanks: "To all
 who so generously assisted both by work
and donations, among those who should be
prominently mentioned are the following:
The Hon. Heber J. Grant, for the use of
the Salt Lake Theater, and to the attaches;
also to Mr. Mulvey for the kind offer of the
Grand Opera House for the same purpose;
to the Union Light and Power company; to
the several bands for their soul-inspiring
music; the Knights of Pythias band, Held's
band, Weihe's orchestra, the Grand orches-
tra; to the Salt Lake Opera company, Or-
pheus club, and Christensen's band; to the
Misses Emma Luut and Lucile Jennings;
to the press for their generous assistance;
the Deseret News, Tribune and Herald;
Ackerman Printing company; Utah Litho-
graphing company; Reporter Printing com-
pany; Western Bill Posting company; New
Grand Posting company; Lester Wallach;
Salt Lake Street Railway company; to the
merchants who gave so liberally, Walker
Bros. Dry Goods company, Z. C. M. I.; F.
Auerbach & Bro.; Spencer Clawson; H.
Dinwoodey Furniture company; Lace
House, Cohn Bros; R. K. Thomas; the
Syndicate; Evans the florist; L. F. Hammel
Domestic Laundry; for advertising; to the
young ladies who sold the badges, and the
boys who assisted with the decorations.
Mrs. William Rigby of the Seventh ward
of this city having heard of the work by
the ladies committee handed in $5.00 for
the cause. If any who have so kindly
rendered aid in this patriotic movement
should have been overlooked in making
this public acknowledgement, we trust they
will pardon the committee and realize that
their work has been appreciated. In behalf
of the Ladies committee, we thank one and
all who so nobly responded.


