[Vol50 | May 1963 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Ham-Noodle Scallop Casserole Anna Marie Astle]
367  Ham-Noodle  Scallop  Casserole    Anna  Marie  Astle 
367  Sugar  Cookies    Myrtle  E.  Henderson 
368  Pancakes  With  an  International  Accent    Margaret  F.   Maxwell 
370  Shirt  Tales    Shirley  Thulin 
377  Mary  Lee  Myers  and  Henrietta  W.  Larsen  —  "Sewing  Sisters" 
POETRY 
321      Remembrance  —  Frontispiece    Grace  Barker  Wilson 
Echo,  by  Rosa  Lee  Lloyd,  334;  Tree  Love,  by  Eva  Willes  Wangsgaard,  335;  Season  oi  the 
Heart,  by  Lael  W.  Hill,  338;  Absentee  Grandchild,  by  Dorothy  J.  Roberts,  345;  Suggestion, 
by  Ida  Elaine  James,  353;  After  Long  Trial,  by  Christie  Lund  Coles,  359;  Washing  Windows, 
by  Zara  Sabin,  363;  You  Cannot  Win,  by  Gladys  Hesser  Burnham,  363;  Last  Bell,  by 
Margery  S.  Stewart,  376;  Life,  by  Catherine  B.  Bowles,  397;  After  First  Grief,  by  Maude 
Rubin,  399;  The  Moon  Is  Full,  by  Evalyn  Sandberg,  -399;  Build  Strong,  by  Ursula  King 
Bell,  400. 
Published  monthly  by  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  ©  1963  by  the  Relief  Society  General  Board  Association 
Editorial  and  Business  Office:  76  North  Main,  Salt  Lake  City  11,  Utah:  Phone  EMpire  4-2511; 
Subscriptions  2642 ;  Editorial  Dept.  2654.  Subscription  Price  $2.00  a  year ;  foreigrn,  $2.00  a  year ; 
20c  a  copy,  payable  in  advance.  The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  No  back 
numbers  can  be  supplied.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be  missed.  Report  change  of 
address  at  once,  giving  old  and  new  address. 
Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914,  at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
under  the  Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for 
in  section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be 
returned  unless  return  postage  is  enclosed.  Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six 
months  only.     The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  manuscripts. 
323

My  Mother 
A  Homemaker 
and  Character 
Builder 
EJna  P.  Haymond 
Member,  General  Board  of  Relief  Society 
"Build  the  whole  child  or  you  have  not  built  well"  -  Mother 
LUCY  Doney  Parkinson,  the 
wife  of  George  C.  Parkinson, 
was  born  in  Franklin,  Idaho, 
in  i860.  She  was  the  daughter  of 
pioneer  parents,  John  and  Ann 
Temperance  Doney.  The  family 
then  was  living  in  the  old  fort  which 
was  occupied  by  the  colony  as  a 
protection  against  the  Indians. 
Brother  and  Sister  Parkinson  were 
the  parents  of  eight  children.  Sister 
Parkinson  passed  away  in  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  in  1932. 
Many  confuse  the  terms  house- 
keeper and  homemaker.  These 
words  are  often  used  interchange- 
ably, but  they  do  not  carry  the  same 
fine  meaning.  The  housekeeper  cares 
for  the  upkeep  of  the  house,  while 
the  broader  term  —  homemaker  — 
includes  this  and  much  more.  To 
be  a  homemaker  one  must  care  for 
the  house  and  all  that  dwell  therein. 
True  homemaking  is  the  art  of  de- 
veloping the  whole  person  or  per- 
sons of  a  family.  It  signifies  the 
developing  of  character,  morals,  and 
spirituality.  I  think  of  my  mother 
as  a  homemaker.  As  I  reminisce  on 
incidents  of  my  early  home  life  in 
Preston,  Idaho,  I  realize  that  many 
tasks  of  housekeeping  have  changed 
with  the  changing  times,  but  the 
principles  of  homemaking  have  not. 
In  considering  Mother  as  a  home- 
maker,  it  is  impossible  for  me  to 
think  of  her  apart  from  Father.  They 
had  an  unusual  closeness  and  har- 
mony in  both  purpose  and  training, 
and  acted  as  one  in  making  deci- 
sions. In  my  home,  the  whole  child 
was  trained  by  wise  and  loving  par- 
ents, who  valued  the  industrious, 
spiritual  life  above  the  social  life. 
The  children  were  taught  the  finer 
qualities:  love,  honesty,  faith,  fair- 
ness, work,  and  charity. 
Mother  was  a  woman  of  rare 
charm.  She  was  a  lady  of  culture 
and  refinement,  a  devoted  wife  and 
mother.  Her  many  friends  spoke  of 
her  in  different  terms.  Some  called 
her  genteel;  some  spoke  of  her  as 
the  Lady  Elect;  as  Sister  Lucy;  while 
324

MY  MOTHER  —  A  HOMEMAKER  AND  CHARACTER  BUILDER 
those  close  to  her,  old  and  young, 
called  her  Aunt  Lucy.  She  seemed 
to  possess  qualities  to  suit  all  these 
names.  The  one  special  name  for 
her  which  I  liked  best  was  Father's 
name  for  her  —  Queen  —  and  he 
truly  treated  her  as  such.  Each  time 
Father  came  home  from  a  day's  ab- 
sence, he  would  say:  ''Where  is  my 
Queen?"  I  think  this  one  lovely 
expression  caused  the  children  to 
take  notice  and  give  added  respect 
to  her.  Her  warm,  cheerful  counte- 
nance, when  hearing  this  name, 
brought  cheer  and  a  feeling  of  well- 
being  into  the  home. 
To  Mother,  time  was  a  precious 
commodity,  one  not  to  be  wasted. 
The  best  time  to  teach  and  guide 
was  while  one  worked  at  even  small 
tasks.  It  was  not  necessary  to  re- 
sort to  lecturing  in  order  to  teach. 
Teaching  of  economy  applied  to 
time,  as  well  as  to  money,  belong- 
ings, and  effort.  Our  time  was  well 
planned  for  work,  education,  pleas- 
ure, for  thinking,  and  even  for  day- 
dreaming and  planning.  What  great 
plan  or  project  was  ever  accom- 
plished without  much  thinking?  We 
also  learned  that  a  child  did  not 
build  up  so  much  resentment  to 
work,  if  he  knew  he  could  count  on 
undisturbed  minutes  or  hours  that 
became  his  own  precious  time. 
In  teaching  economy  in  the  use 
of  money.  Mother  often  quoted 
President  Brigham  Young:  *'A  wom- 
an can  throw  out  of  the  window 
with  a  spoon  as  fast  as  a  man  can 
throw  into  the  door  with  a  shovel." 
This  lesson  was  taught  as  we  cared 
for  our  clothing,  as  we  cared  for 
furniture,  and  kept  the  home  in 
good  condition.  Even  though  we 
lived  in  the  country  and  raised  our 
own  vegetables,  we  were  never  al- 
lowed to  cook  too  much  or  waste 
the  food. 
l\/f  OTHER  soon  learned,  as  the 
eight  children  came  along, 
many  of  the  secrets  of  a  cheerful,  co- 
operative family.  The  children  were 
expected  to  assume  their  share  of  the 
responsibilities  of  the  home  tasks.  It 
was  expected  that  jobs  would  be 
done  well,  done  to  meet  Mother's 
approval.  As  soon  as  a  child  learned 
one  task  well,  he  was  given  full 
credit,  and  was  then  assigned  to 
some  new  task  for  training.  This 
prevented  a  child  from  building  up 
resentment  for  a  task  he  did  not  like 
to  do.  Tension  was  lessened,  so 
that  willingness  to  assist  and  learn 
followed.  I  remember  the  task  of 
cleaning  the  chimneys  of  our  coal- 
oil  burning  lamps.  Each  morning 
they  were  lined  up  on  the  drain  like 
well-ordered  soldiers.  Some  child 
was  assigned  to  clean  them.  Here, 
again,  perfect  work  was  required. 
This  scheduled,  planned  work  served 
as  a  tie  to  responsibility  —  responsi- 
bility which  is  so  fundamental  in 
the  training  of  a  child.  Regular  work, 
finished  work,  good  work  made  for 
calm  living,  as  opposed  to  confusion 
and  scolding.  ''Any  child,"  Mother 
said,  "feels  more  secure  and  much 
happier  when  he  knows  what  is  ex- 
pected of  him  and  that  he  must 
meet  certain  standards."  Fifty  years 
after,  it  remains  a  positive  teaching 
tool  to  me. 
In  our  home  the  boys  were  ex- 
pected to  take  their  turns  in  helping 
with  the  housework.  They  had  their 
regular  jobs,  as  did  the  girls. 
Through  these  tasks  they  learned  to 
respect  their  mother,  their  sisters, 
325