[Vol50 | May 1963 | Page 349 | General Feature | Editorial: Eternal Eamings in Twenty-four Hours Marianne | C. Sharp]
EDITORIAL VOLUME 

 NUMBER 5 Eternal Earnings in Twenty-four Hours HE day draws to a close, and darkness covers the room where the woman lies. As sleep hovers a distance away, the events of her day are rehearsed. Some nights, most nights, there are feelings of satisfaction and accomplishment. Occasionally, however, a sense of futility presses upon her, or one of discouragement and reproach. She has come to divide her activities into categories as she reviews the day. Her housekeeping; her gardening; her cooking: these are tangible values, and her heart warms at the thought of the special cleaning she gave her son's closet which had been needing attention for some time. She forgot, again, however, to stake up her delphiniums; the cookies she managed to bake would be welcomed by the children in their lunches and after school the next day. Then her mind turns to values less tangible — the spirit she had lighted in the home with her family that morning. If she had not stayed in bed so long, she would not have been cross as the children got ready 346 for school, which had affected them, in turn, so they were not cooperative and had made them leave for school in an unhappy mood. But the baby had been fretful a great deal in the night, she justified herself, and so it had been very hard to get up. Her mind then weighs those events in an effort to arrive at a solution another time. She silently vows to maintain a sweet spirit the next morning — no matter what — and not to raise her voice even in the hurly burly of hurrying the children off to school. She will pray vocally for that strength, she decides, in a family prayer. Her thoughts then shift to her attitude to her husband. He came home tired, of course, and a little fearful at the day's business experience. Perhaps she could have left the children's wants for a few moments, and have taken more time to welcome him and sympathize with his rather obvious discouragement. The words of the Prophet to Relief Society members run through her head: "Never give a cross or unkind word to your husbands.... When Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer a man is borne down with trouble... [he] needs a solace of affection and kindness."" She resolves to try and not feel sorry for herself, but to extend greater affection and understanding to her husband. Her thoughts then move outside her home. What had she done that day for love of neighbor? Well, nothing, she decides, except be friendly with her neighbor in the back yard. But tomorrow she has planned to do her visiting teaching with her companion — that will be accomplishing something tangible for a neighbor. With this happy thought sleep takes over. Such an evaluation of one's daily activities to fit one's particular situation is an incentive for better living. Most of the time of a Latter-day Saint woman is fully occupied. But it is necessary for one's continued growth to be alert to the destination of each activity. Of first concern is the development in the home of a loving, a heavenly spirit, for the desired destination is a celestial home. No other activity can supplant the importance of developing harmonious relationships and guiding children to righteous living. 'This is a matter of primary concern to a wife and mother as long as she lives. But where are her activities outside her home and family leading her? For guidance in these activities she, may recall the great commandment, "Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself." Is that her goal, and is she journeying toward it? Are her actions such as to engender love for her by her neighbor? Is she striving to learn to love her neighbor, or is she spending her time mostly for her own improvement, for her own enjoyment, for her own pleasure? Every Latter-day Saint woman has twenty-four hours a day to spend. The totals in eternal values which are earned may or may not equal twenty-four. Some may earn but a few minutes in a day, others may earn a full measure. A reckoning, however, will come to every woman, and while it is day, as the prophet has written, is the time to labor. —M. C. S. 347 Ora Pate Stewart T was ten-thirty on Monday night, January 7, 1963, at Garden Grove, California. We were coming home from a welfare errand. My seventeen-year-old son slowed the station wagon to a stop in our driveway and opened the door for me. "Oh, Mom! Look at the sky." The sky, disregarding mountains and construction, began at a ground horizon and arched upward in a perfect dome, round and high — ever so high — and the clouds formed an all-over pattern of square, white pieces fitted together in an artful mosaic like the mottling of rare marble in the ceiling of an ancient building. 'The clouds were unusually white for that time of night, and were marked off squarishly with little rivers — something like a massive ice-flow, with the outlines of deep blue water separating the chunks, symmetrical as square marshmallows arranged in a blue bowl. The moon seemed to have the unusual power to shine through, and seemed to move rapidly across the dome with a pale, opalescent rainbow circling it. The stars did not shine through the cloud-flow, but appeared, fleetingly, like furtive silver fishes, glistening through the blue serrations for a second or two, then disappearing under the cloud banks. A transport plane coming in from the south, winking its alternate red and green wing lights, still too far away to project any more than a faint hum, seemed somewhat out of place: a night moth captured under a great bowl — a single firefly, turning its flicker on and off. 'Then it settled at a distant airport, perhaps Long Beach. I was glad it had found its port, and I felt an apprehension for any wayfayers of the sky who might not have found their way into this solid canopy It was better without the flicker and without the hum. It was a picture unanimated but for the quiet motions of eternity — a part of the greater mural, and yet a part that could never return again exactly as it was. I have never seen anything just like it in my lifetime. It was a picture with a strange power — the power of beauty, the power of peace, the power of quiet contemplation. I thought of the signs and wonders promised for the last days. I thought of the symmetry and order of the unt verse. I thought of God. 348 DPURING the present session of the United States Congress, of one hundred Senators, women: Senator Margaret Chase Smith, Republican, of Maine, and two are Senator Maurine B. Neuberger, Democrat, of Oregon. Of 436 members of the House of Representatives, eleven are women: Charlotte T. Reid, Republican, Illinois; Martha W. Griffiths, Democrat, Michigan; Leonor Kretzer Sullivan, Democrat, Missouri; Florence P. Dwyer, Republican, New Jersey; Edna F. Kelly, Democrat, New York; Katherine St. George, Republican, New York; Frances E. Bolton, Republican, Ohio; Edith Green, Democrat, Oregon; Julia B. Hansen, Democrat, Washington; Catherine May, Republican, Washington; Elizabeth Kee, Democrat, West Virginia. EBECCA ROBISON, a Latterday Saint musician, has been selected to play the viola in the Massachusetts All-State Symphony Orchestra. A student at Muinnechaug High School, Miss Robison was chosen by a lengthy process of auditions from the outstanding school musicians of the State. ATZUMBIE DUPEA, a Paiute Indian woman, who has had parts in several Western movies, ls now 113 years old. She expresses her philosophy of life as "Think right, do right, and don't worry." JN the small principality of Monaco, where American-born Princess Grace, wife of ruler Prince Rainier, is First Lady, women voted in the February twenty-fifth parliamentary elections for the first time. ISS HELEN HARRIS, a retired schoolteacher _ eighty - seven years old, was recently named by renowned cartoonist Herbert L. Block (Herblock) as his "Golden Key" to success (the teacher who had helped him most during his lifetime). 'The two were honored in February at the Atlantic City, New Jersey, meeting of the American Association of School Administrators. The award stems from seven educational organizations. In her journalism classes, Miss Harris stressed good citizenship and the obligation of writers to learn actual truth and tell it. 349 Early Years Are a Mother's Glory Leona Fetzer Wintch Wwetts of joy spring up everlastingly when we rear splendid children. But to have these satisfactions and garner sweet memories, we must truly love our children by going with them and guiding them during their morning of life so they may know the way. Only two years ago our house bustled with the activity of four children. One by one they have begun to leave for distant places. It will not be long until we two, who began our home together, will look forlornly across the table at each other. With tenderness and affection, our eyes will search for the small-child drawings and the homemade I Love You valentines, discolored by time, but still tacked on the wall. It would be heaven to hear their voices or see their beautiful, young faces again. The tears will crowd our eyes, but they will not fall, because the feelings of joy and sadness are mixed. There will be a desolate loneliness because our loved ones are absent, yet we know we would grieve if they always remained on our hearth. Christ would never have been our Savior if he had not left the Father. Our children, too, must go away from us to develop their capacities and realize self-fulfillment. They are gone before we know they are leaving, and the miraculous, growing years are a dream all too soon. Let us cherish every happy moment during this springtime of life. The years of, "Oh, Mommy, come quick! The moon is on' full blast!" are measured, and are quick in passing. They will not even be a memory, if precious moments are left to others who rear our little ones. Tender tears, innocent adoration, and unique expressions cannot be recaptured.