[Vol50 | May 1963 | Page 348 | Special Feature | Portrait of Life Helen | Hinckley Jones]
I have been painting your face—your PORTRAIT OF LIFE physical face — but today I shall begin to paint you." Whenever I could look away from the door handle, I saw on her face a look of extreme concentration. Sometimes, a look of delight seemed to play over the look of concentration, not really taking its place. At the end of the third sitting she did not cover the canvas. I was free to look at it if I wished, but she did not turn it toward me. After a time I gave in to my curiosity. This time the portrait looked so much like me that looking at it was like peering into a mirror. I would have called the portrait finished, but the next morning I sat again, this time with more conscious cooperation. "I am working on your eyes now. Please move them as little as possible." Or, "I am working on your lips now. No, don't smile. A smile usually looks foolish on a portrait." After a long time, she said, "Now I'm getting you. The real you. You're coming. I'm getting that something that is you." At the end of the sitting she turned the canvas toward me. "Have you any suggestions?" she asked. For a moment I was deeply disappointed. I didn't know that I looked like that. I went to the mirror and compared my face with the one in the portrait. I remembered Robert Burns, "Oh, wad some power the giftie gie us, 'To see oursels as others see us!" In every line and shadow Madame Hygrecko's brushes were right. I tried to hide my feelings, but she saw me massaging my double chin. "But I'm not through yet." The next morning she worked 


 with an almost constant look of satisfaction. Finally she said, "I'm through now." I walked away, leaving her cleaning her brushes. When I came back into the room she had slipped the portrait into a simple frame, and it was facing me on the easel. And now the painting stopped me. Here was not only a picture of how I looked on the outside, but of how I felt on the inside. This wasn't like facing myself in a mirror. It was tather as if I had been in the room before I came in, if this explanation makes any sense. My presence was there in the portrait. The face in the frame wasn't young. It wasn't beautiful. In fact, I had not known before that so much of my hair was gray, or that my chin was so double, or that the lines on my face were so deep. But somehow these things didn't matter. I knew that the artist was right, and I didn't mind at all. It was as if this were an old friend whose looks had ceased to matter. After a time an art critic, a collector of paintings, came to see the portrait. He had never met me, but from the canvas he read my character and personality. Truly my life was pictured in my face. All my life I had heard that each of us makes his own face, but I had never realized what the axiom meant until I watched the portrait grow. When I was born I came into the world with a face like my father's. I had done nothing to that face. The bones were there, the lips, the eyes, all his, as well as mine. Then I began to do subtle things to my face. The face of my "second day" was mine, as well as his. I lived longer, and the face was all mine. And, finally, the face was not only mine, it was me (grammatical error intentional).