[Vol50 | May 1963 | Page 332 | Special Feature | My Mother — A Homemaker and Character Builder Elna | P. Haymond]
[My Mother — A Homemaker and Character Builder Elna P. Haymond]

Echo Rosa Lee Lloyd "Don't cry, little love," my mother said When I stubbed my toe or bumped my head. Then she kissed it better as mothers do When you are a wee little girl of two. "Take bumps with a bounce," my brother advised When my teenage heart was shocked or surprised. Life was a blue sky, frolic, and fun, But grownup bumps came, one by one. Now if I listen, a voice will caress, Whispering comfort and lovingly bless. Where does it come from? I only know It sounds like an echo from long ago. Picture on opposite page —""Tree Homestead,' H. Armstrong Ro 334 ADAME Hygrecko and I faced each other across the easel. My hands were folded quietly, my eyes focused on a handle of the French door. Beyond I could see only the gray, gray sky of Paris, and an occasional boat drifting by on the river. If I turned my eyes ever so slightly, I could see Madame Hygrecko, a pallet and half a dozen brushes in one hand, a single brush in the other. I could see the line of concentration between her eyes, her squint when she held the brush in a horizontal line before her to make a measurement of my face. Neither of us said a word. In her kitchen doing the washing up, or in her living room sewing together, we could chat as if we had always lived in the same world. But when she was painting, she needed all of the quiet concentration that I need at my typewriter. She seemed to work -rapidly, but with no slap-dash. Pasting on of color. 336 \ PQ) RIPRATT OF LIKE Helen Hinckley Jones When the first sitting was almost over, she explained that she did not draw with a pencil before she began painting a portrait; that she could do the drawing she needed with her brushes as she progressed. She also said that the artist's problem was not to make the portrait look like the subject. That was easy. Even good copyists could do that. To me this was incomprehensible. I've always had to label the drawing I did to please my children. "Our dog, Bruno; our cat, Cutie Pie." I found myself dozing as I sat, and she took pity on me. "Were through for today," she told me, putting a sheet over the painting. The sheet clearly said that Madame Hygrecko wasn't ready for me to see her work, but later I looked under the sheet. I'm not one to open a Christmas package on the fifteenth of December, but I did look under the sheet. What I saw was a very good likeness of my father. He had my hair and he was wearing my blue blouse, but the proportions of the face, the high, square forehead, the rather thin, upturned lips, the eyes, only slightly unmatched as to size and shape, were all his. Hurriedly I returned the sheet. I remembered that once on a bus in the part of the country where my father had lived as a boy, a stranger asked, "Are you Sam Hinckley's daughter? I thought so. I knew Sam when he was your age." At the next sitting Madame Hygrecko, not knowing that I had violated her privacy, said, "TI never like the subject to look at the first day's work. In the first day I just get the big features, the structure of the face — forehead, cheek bones, chin line. Today I'll begin to flesh it out." I sat quietly again, sometimes dreaming, sometimes almost dozing, sometimes thinking, sometimes re- 'membering. Madame Hygrecko 'worked with concentration and speed, only speaking when she stopped to squeeze a new color onto her pallet. Again, she put the sheet over the painting when she had completed her morning's work. Again, I cheated a little and took a look when she was busy elsewhere. Now the painting didn't look like my father as much as it looked like me. From a distance, looking through squinted eyes, the portrait looked almost like a colored photograph blown up to life size. THE next day, as Madame settled at the easel, she said, "Now I am ready to begin the hard work.