[Vol50 | May 1963 | Page 336 | Special Feature | Contest Announcements 1963 | ]
VOLUME/50° NUMBERS MAY 1963 > a "te, £ o 4 3 &.. 3 ey rie, ON nf? B if Kemembrance Grace Barker Wilson The warm flat rock above the stream Was just the place to lie and dream, And watch the flashing rainbow trout In the deep pool weave in and out. The banks bore moss grown violets, And, further back, wild mignonettes Mixed perfume with the scented air Of new green willows growing there. How friendly all that tangled wild — And I was, once, that dreaming child. The Cover: Lake Marraine, Banff National Park, Canada Color Transparency by Josef Muench Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: 9} Shadow and Sunlight, Near Bountiful, Utah Photograph by L. Paul Roberts Art Layout: 9) Dick Scopes tom I don't think anyone could take The Relief Society Magazine out of the mailbox without at least thumbing through it. I always read the From Near and Far page, if I read nothing else immediately. This page makes me feel close to all the sisters in the Church. The first serial I read was "Because of the Word" (by Hazel M. Thomson). I am_ sure this — story strengthened my testimony. The series of articles about the women who knew the Prophet Joseph Smith (by Preston Nibley) was wonderful, too. I have been a member of the Church for two years and have had many blessings since being baptized. I enjoyed the recent serial "Out of the Wilderness," by Shirley Thulin. The visiting teacher messages are full of wisdom. All the sisters I visited said they enjoyed the message about using their time wisely. —Mtrs. Jacqueline Rasmussen Clinton, Iowa I surely do enjoy The Relief Society Magazine. I carry one or two of them in my big handbag each time I go out in the car with my husband. While in Seattle last week, I read all of the installments. Of the serial "Sow the Field With Roses," by Margery S. Stewart (January to June 1962). I studied her style, and it delighted me very much. She has a real polish, which makes me think she has written a great deal. —Mrs. Alice Sabin Yakima, Washington We receive with great pleasure each month that periodical The Relief Society Magazine. We feel enthusiastic about this Magazine, with all the interesting and stimulating articles and the beautiful pictures, but, in particular, we rejoice in reading the inspiring and poetic novel "Out of the Wilderness' (by Shirley Thulin, concluded in February 1963). —Anna Marie Vedder Hamburg, Germany 322 Cet com as I have enjoyed reading The Relief Society Magazine for many years, and I especially enjoy the poetry. It gave me much pleasure to see that Christie Lund Coles won the second prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest ("The Home," February 1963). I especially enjoy the poetry by Mrs. Coles and have often quoted her poetry in giving lessons in the auxiliary organizations of the Church, and in PTA and other places where I have been asked to give talks. —Betty Green San Bernardino, California I was very much impressed with the story "Ihe Home" (by Christie Lund Coles) in the February issue of the Magazine. All of the stories are good, and the Magazine is wonderful, from start to finish. The articles never get old. They can be read time after time, and there is always something new to cherish. I thank all the people who put their time and work and patience into the making of the Magazine. —Mrs. Violet Pierce Gunnison, Utah In the March 1963 issue of the Magazine I enjoyed so much the article "We Can't Be Perfect" by Christie Lund Coles. As In-Service leader of our ward Primary, I am planning for each teacher to have a copy of this article. —Mrs. John J. Merrill Logan, Utah I would like to thank you for the very lovely Magazine we are so privileged to receive in Our homes every month. I enjoy every page, and have particularly looked forward to the serial story "Out of the Wilderness," by Shirley Thulin, and the work meeting lessons on "The Latter-day Saint Home," which are so helpful (by Dr. Virginia F. Cutler). —Ruth Pepper Corrimal East N. S. W., Australia The Relief society Magazine VOL. 

 NO. 5 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Marianne C. Sharp Editor Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor Belle S. Spafford General Manager 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 2642; Editorial Dept. 2654. Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 323 A Homemaker and Character Builder Elna P. Haymond Member, General Board of Relief Society "Build the whole child or you have not built well' - Mother UCY Doney Parkinson, the wife of George C. Parkinson, was born in Franklin, Idaho, in 1860. She was the daughter of pioneer parents, John and Ann Temperance Doney. The family then was living in the old fort which was occupied by the colony as a protection against the Indians. Brother and Sister Parkinson were the parents of eight children. Sister Parkinson passed away in Salt Lake City, Utah, in 1932. Many confuse the terms housekeeper and homemaker. These words are often used interchangeably, but they do not carry the same fine meaning. The housekeeper cares for the upkeep of the house, while the broader term — homemaker — includes this and much more. 'To be a homemaker one must care for the house and all that dwell therein. True homemaking is the art of developing the whole person or persons of a family. It signifies the developing of character, morals, and 324 spirituality. I think of my mother as a homemaker. As I reminisce on incidents of my early home life in Preston, Idaho, I realize that many tasks of housekeeping have changed with the changing times, but the principles of homemaking have not. In considering Mother as a homemaker, it is impossible for me to think of her apart from Father. 'They had an unusual closeness and _harmony in both purpose and training, and acted as one in making decisions. In my home, the whole child was trained by wise and loving parents, who valued the industrious, spiritual life above the social life. The children were taught the finer qualities: love, honesty, faith, fairness, work, and charity. Mother was a woman of rare charm. She was a lady of culture and refinement, a devoted wife and mother. Her many friends spoke of her in different terms. Some called her genteel; some spoke of her as the Lady Elect; as Sister Lucy; while MY MOTHER — A HOMEMAKER AND CHARACTER BUILDER those close to her, old and young, called her Aunt Lucy. She seemed to possess qualities to suit all these names. The one special name for her which I liked best was Father's name for her — Queen — and he truly treated her as such. Each time Father came home from a day's absence, he would say: "Where is my Queen?" I think this one lovely expression caused the children to take notice and give added respect to her. Her warm, cheerful countenance, when hearing this name, brought cheer and a feeling of wellbeing into the home. To Mother, time was a precious commodity, one not to be wasted. The best time to teach and guide was while one worked at even small tasks. It was not necessary to resort to lecturing in order to teach. Teaching of economy applied to time, as well as to money, belongings, and effort. Our time was well planned for work, education, pleasure, for thinking, and even for daydreaming and planning. What great plan or project was ever accomplished without much thinking? We also learned that a child did not build up so much resentment to work, if he knew he could count on undisturbed minutes or hours that became his own precious time. In teaching economy in the use of money, Mother often quoted President Brigham Young: "A woman can throw out of the window with a spoon as fast as a man can throw into the door with a shovel." This lesson was taught as we cared for our clothing, as we cared for furniture, and kept the home in good condition. Even though we lived in the country and raised our own vegetables, we were never allowed to cook too much or waste the food. OTHER soon learned, as the eight children came along, many of the secrets of a cheerful, cooperative family. The children were expected to assume their share of the responsibilities of the home tasks. It was expected that jobs would be done well, done to meet Mother's approval. As soon as a child learned one task well, he was given full credit, and was then assigned to some new task for training. This prevented a child from building up resentment for a task he did not like to do. 'Tension was lessened, so that willingness to assist and learn followed. I remember the task of cleaning the chimneys of our coaloil burning lamps. Each morning they were lined up on the drain like well-ordered soldiers. Some child was assigned to clean them. Here, again, perfect work was required. This scheduled, planned work served as a tie to responsibility — responsibility which is so fundamental in the training of a child. Regular work, finished work, good work made for calm living, as opposed to confusion and scolding. "Any child,' Mother said, "feels more secure and much happier when he knows what is expected of him and that he must meet certain standards." Fifty years after, it remains a positive teaching tool to me. In our home the boys were expected to take their turns in helping with the housework. They had their regular jobs, as did the girls. Through these tasks they learned to respect their mother, their sisters, 325 MY MOTHER — A HOMEMAKER AND CHARACTER BUILDER and women in general. They all became kind and thoughtful husbands and fathers as a result. Girls and boys, alike, washed dishes, cleaned floors, and assisted with the care of the smaller children. 'They truly learned that woman's work was important and not too menial for them to perform. OTHER believed and taught the words of the Savior as he spoke of keeping the Sabbath day holy: "And on this day thou shalt do none other thing, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect " (D&C 59:13). In order to live this commandment, we as children assisted on Saturday with the preparation of the Sunday meal. Each child had a special duty in this preparation, so naturally we learned the meaning of the words of the Savior. In order to have as little confusion as possible on Sunday morning, each child who was old enough, prepared, folded, and put into drawers or on shelves the clothing to be worn on Sunday. Mother did not do this for us. After being shown how to do it, we were expected to do this for ourselves. A child was never allowed to wash or iron clothing on Sunday. Saturday was the day for this. This practice taught planning, orderliness, and respect for the Sabbath. This same training included "a place for everything, and everything in its place." Books, toys, and clothing were expected to be in their place. 'This, of course, meant a place had to be provided. We were never expected to do the impossible or the impractical, so a place was provided. Mother's teachings in charity soon became a daily part of our lives. This was taught by action and with love. We, as a group, prepared Christmas and Thanksgiving baskets to take to the less fortunate. I can visualize the six to ten baskets on the table. 'These were filled, according to the size of the family, by the children, as Mother directed the work. Pies, cakes, chicken, potatoes, eggs, bread, vegetables, and other foods were included. Our own Christmas or Thanksgiving was not planned nor completed until this was done, and the baskets were delivered by the children to the various families. Even the very small children went along. Many, many days and _ nights Mother cared for the sick, even to the assisting with the delivery of a baby. During her absence we children were expected to care for the house, so that we felt we had also assisted in caring for the sick. "All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy," was a truism we often heard, so family camping parties, swimming parties, and lawn parties were held, but never on Sunday. Of course, there were times, among eight children, of discord and disobedience, but these times were not always lost to us. Our wise Mother used these as measuring sticks for evaluating causes and results. Nor was discipline without its humor. I well remember the day that Mother sent my small brother out to get a switch that she might tingle his legs for something he had done. In a few minutes he returned with his small hands full 


 of wheat straws Mother was busy at the time he came in, but when she turned she saw that he had used the straws to spell out across the large kitchen floor "TI love you," and had put several kiss crosses at the end. When Mother saw it, she hesitated for a few seconds, then put her arm around him and said, "I love you, too, son," and kissed him. She did not turn in anger and punish him or scold him. She talked it over with the child, and the subject was dropped. Father was stake president for twenty-five years, so our home was always "open house" to all the General Authorities and auxiliary officers who visited the stake. As we assisted with the preparations for the meals, housecleaning, making beds, and other tasks, we learned to serve the guests and respect them, and listen to their counsel. While they were in our home their shoes were placed outside their rooms at night. The boys shined them and placed them there again to be worn the next morning. The girls put fresh linen on the beds, poured fresh water into the washstand pitchers, and cleaned the rooms. This lightened Mother's work and gave us an opportunity to serve. The principle of tithing was taught not only by example, but through discussion with each member of the family, and with the family as a whole. Plans were discussed whereby it would be possible for full payment of the tithe. Each child figured his own share and paid it himself. Often a child found it necessary to rebudget his expenditures in order to save the ten per 328 cent, but all the children knew that tithing came first on the list. Sister Lucy Parkinson spent many, many hours traveling over the large stake in the service of the Lord. Not only did she teach Primary, Sunday School, and Mutual at times during the rearing of her family, but, as counselor in the stake Relief Society to Sister Louisa Benson, she visited the far, outlying wards as an officer. (Sister Benson was the grandmother of our present member of the Council of the 'Twelve. ) S Mother prepared the lesson in the quiet of her own room, we learned the value of thorough preparation. As she traveled many, many miles by horse and buggy, or horse and sleigh over poor roads, or no roads at all, with only a soapstone (steatite) to warm her, the lesson of dependability was taught. Religious training was daily a part of our living. Often it was merely the following of an example set by our parents. I cherish the hours I spent discussing the principles of the gospel with my parents. I remember that it was during an afternoon when we were gathering corn, that Father explained so clearly to me the mission and attributes of the Holy Ghost. If a question of doctrine came up that Father or Mother did not understand, there followed a period of study, often with the child. My parents were never too busy to explain the gospel to us. There was no place in our training for superstition or fear of the unknown, the dark, forces of nature, lightning, water, or storms. At an early age we became closely ac quainted with these things. As a family we took long walks in the evening and into the dark, thus learning the hidden beauties of the night, rather than fear of it. On starlit nights, we placed blankets and chairs on the lawn in order to look at the wonders of the heavens. It was at such times that Mother explained God's great power, his wisdom, and his purpose for the planets — millions of them. Death, we were taught, was God's plan for graduation from this, the second estate, to the hereafter. Death, we learned, is not a tragedy, nor something to dread. It is comparable to the transition from the first to the second estate, when parents and family anxiously await the arrival of a baby. We learned that someone is present to welcome our loved ones as they leave this life. At the time of death of our loved ones, we were prepared to accept it, MY MOTHER — A HOMEMAKER AND CHARACTER BUILDER President and Sister Parkinson Picture taken in Preston, bo at 4 my ' 2 & a4 a, 4 x ie. °: yd he? Aa TP ee = 5, ee Nea Meee, a pe Ld Idaho, in 1900 so that, gradually, it became a sweet, fond memory. HE power of the Priesthood was witnessed many times, as members of the family, friends, and neighbors were healed, according to their faith. A child was. Never sent from the sickroom when someone was being administered to, rather the children' were invited to be present. I am sure it was Mother's attitude towards the Priesthood and Father's great responsibility as president of the stake for so many years that engendered in our hearts respect for the Authorities. To Mother and Father the main purpose of life was to make of their children candidates for the celestial kingdom. This could not be taught in the home unless the parents believed and lived the celestial law of temple marriage. Brigham Young 


 taught that we must grow in knowledge and grace from day to day, and from year to year. This became Mother's motto in stressing the necessity of learning gospel truths. She taught that to live the law we must know it. The expression "It is high to be a judge" was often heard as judgment was being passed on friend or neighbor. If the criticism continued, a second quotation was used — "Judge not, that ye be not judged" (Mt. 7:1). Probably the frequent use of quotations, followed by an explanation, was what made the scriptures become so real, such a part of our family life. NE lesson that we learned well was: Why should we be embarrassed when our Church standards are questioned or made fun of? Mother explained that this is God's Church, not a man-made one. Why should we apologize for it or try to explain it away? Many times this was the only convincing we needed in order to uphold the standards when they were questioned. The teaching of morality was high on the list, and respect for the possessions of others, for the rights of others. 'The children respected the clothing, rooms, and even the time of other members of the family. This one teaching helped to eliminate disputes and confusion. Fairness was something to be cherished. As the small children traded marbles, toys, string, kites, and other articles, they were reminded: "A bargain or a deal is not a good one unless it is equally good for both parties concerned." Even as the 330 children grew into adulthood, this principle was closely guarded. We were taught to "Honour thy father and thy mother." It was Mother who built the image of Father as head of the home. She was always alert to the niceties of life and their application. In teaching respect for Father, his chair, paper, and slippers were always ready and in place for him when he returned from church or office. It was a common thing to see a child, in respect for him when he came in, get up from Father's chair and re mind him it was for him. If he had had a trying day, or if some special disappointment or worry was his, Mother prepared an especially fine dinner, and the children were alerted to be cheerful and leave their problems behind. At these times, Mother showed increased kindness, love, and understanding. Father was never underestimated, downgraded, or made to feel he would not or could not succeed. Encouragement and understanding were Mother's strong points. Often these were all that were necessary to solve a problem. In return for this encouragement, Father showed unusual love and respect for Mother. He was the one who impressed this upon the minds of the children. After our family prayer at dinnertime, Mother did not leave the table in order to serve the meal. Father saw that the children, both boys and girls, did all the serving. They had been trained for this, and each took his turn. 'This same training in respect and consideration was carried into all relationships between parents and children. This teaching of honoring Father MY MOTHER — A HOMEMAKER AND CHARACTER BUILDER THE PARKINSON FAMILY HOME IN PRESTON, IDAHO This home was built in 1895, one of the first large homes in Preston. It was here that Brother and Sister Parkinson reared their eight children. And Mother was carried even further. I can truly say that I never saw my parents quarrel. They had differences, of course, but they never resorted to harsh or loud words. Again, as children went on dates, they were always told, "Remember who your Father is, and remember who your Mother is, and never let them down." 'This was a reminder to shun certain things and accept others. Lucy Parkinson taught well, as shown by President Joseph F. Smith, when he visited our home. During one of these visits, he said, "There is a rare feeling of spirituality, a feeling of calm, and of training, in this home that is not common to all homes." I came to realize that any of the children could say, © What virtues I have, I learned during my childhood in my home; any wrongs I have committed have been of my own making. In thinking over my childhood, I say to myself of Mother, as the Prophet Joseph Smith said, when he quoted the Savior: "Ye shall do the work which ve see me do." No finer tribute can I pay to my Mother or to mv Father.

1963 _ CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENTS. Ri WIN) il in) I HHA th sa Win WN) nln Wy Il Nit i! CONTESTS CLOSE AUGUST 15, 1963 HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the two contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winner of an award in one of them in no way precludes winning in the other. Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest HE Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1963. Prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize - - -------$40 Second prize $30 Third prize $20 Prize poems will be published in the January 1964 issue of The Relief Society Magazine (the birth month of Eliza R. Snow). Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board, and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. 332 Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is opén to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the Relief Society General Board. 2. Only one poem may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if possible. Where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestants to insure against loss.) 4. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 5- No explanatory material or picture is to accompany a poem. 6. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 7. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted, certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the poem (state title) is the contestant's original work. C. That it has never been published. D. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication. E. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. G. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational Relief Society Short Story Cor HE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1963 opens with this announcement and closes August 15, 1963. The prizes this year will be as follows: First prize - 2-2.2------$75 Second prize - -$60 Third prize $50 The three prize-winning § stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1964. Prizewinning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENT — 1963 institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among the judges, all poems selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the poems, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Message or theme b. Form and pattern c. Rhythm and meter d. Accomplishment of the purpose of the poem e. Climax 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1963. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. Av is @ "~ es the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women — exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board — who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. The number of the words must appear on the first page of the manuscript. (All words should be counted, including one and two-letter words.) A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestants to insure against loss. 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 


 5. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. B. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication. ) c. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. D. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 7. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 8. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreements among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style g. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1963. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah.