[Vol50 | May 1963 | Page 367 | General Feature | Magic in Your Vinegar Bottle Margaret | F. Maxwell]
Most of all, use your imagination. Have fun creating something your lunch-toters will really look forward to — and lunch sacks as tempting as Christmas presents EVERY week day of the year. 365 Margaret F. Maxwell What a useful servant we have in our vinegar bottle! Too many times we think of vinegar only as an agent in pickling or preserving, or in making salad dressing. But keep your vinegar bottle handy. It can be helpful in practically every room in the house. Sewing room: To remove the shine from a man's wool or gabardine trousers, or your own skirt, place article on a flat surface. Dip a cloth in vinegar; wring out thoroughly. Rub the shiny spot with the cloth, and the spot will disappear. It is not necessary to press the item, and the odor of vinegar should disappear as it dries. Try this, also, when letting down a hem in a wool skirt, where a stubborn crease remains that simply won't come out with ironing. Living room: To preserve the beauty of cut flowers, add two tablespoons vinegar and three teaspoons sugar to each quart of water used for the flowers. Kitchen: Vinegar is useful both in cooking and in cleaning in the kitchen. Put a teaspoon of vinegar in boiling water, and you may boil a cracked egg. Try a little vinegar in the cooking water for poached eggs, too, to keep them from spreading. For light, fluffy rice, add a teaspoon of vinegar to the cooking water. For those of us who dislike the odor of onion on our hands (and who doesn't?), rub vinegar on the hands and the odor will disappear. If too much salt has been added to soup or other food, try adding a teaspoon of vinegar and a teaspoon of sugar and reheating. A mixture of straight vinegar and salt makes an excellent cleaner for fine crystal, as well as for bottles which have become stained or discolored. Allow crystal to stand several hours in the vinegar or overnight, and then rinse in clear water. Stainless steel pans, chrome-plated appliances, such as toasters, refrigerator and freezer handles, etc., shine like new when wiped with a cloth dampened with vinegar. Household cleaning: Add one quarter cup of vinegar to a half bucket of clear, warm water to wash windows and make them sparkle. For varnished or shellacked floors, doors, and woodwork, try this same formula, but be sure your cleaning cloth is wrung out as dry as possible. When it comes to major household facelifting, keep your vinegar bottle handy to remove paint spots from glass and to soften hardened paint brushes. And if you have ever tried to remove old wallpaper from walls, you will appreciate this tip: First, sand wallpaper to allow liquid to penetrate. Next, spray paper with a mixture of one-fourth cup vinegar to each quart of hot water used. Allow to soak about five minutes, and then scrape off. Furniture refinishing and repair: Apply straight vinegar with a paintbrush to rungs of old chairs to loosen and remove old, dried glue.