[Vol50 | May 1963 | Page 354 | Fiction | Battalion Hazel | K. Todd]
[Battalion Hazel K. Todd]

He sat and watched through the window without saying anything, and when I asked him to play Battalion with me he said, without even looking: "I'omorrow, Freddie." And then tomorrow he would say the same thing. Then I saw him looking at mother's picture on the mantel. He looked at it lots of times. Only this time he had one of the pink letters, and he was just standing there staring. And there were tears running down his face. I ran outside because I had never seen my father cry and it frightened me. I climbed up in the apple tree like I always did when I wanted to think. And I didn't even hear my Dad come up until he said, "Hey, up there, may I come up and sit by you?" I jumped and nearly fell out of the tree. Dad laughed then just 


 like he did when things were all right. I was so glad. And I was so glad he would come up and sit by me, because he had never sat in the apple tree with me before. "Sure," I said, and moved over on the limb. He swung up in the tree easy and sat there looking at me. I felt so good I could burst. "Freddie," he said, "how would you like to have a mother?" "Mother?" I couldn't think how I could have my mother when she was dead. "Yes," he said, looking at me so hard I wondered if he could see the things inside me. "I mean I would marry a lovely lady like your mother was and she would be your mother." "You mean a — a stepmother?" Dad frowned a little. "I guess you would call her a stepmother." I thought I was going to choke. "No," I said, backing away from him on the limb. "We don't need a stepmother. We have Elberta." Dad: put his hand over mine. "You would love her, son." — "No!" I screamed. 'No, I don't want any old stepmother!" jumped out of the tree, without even thinking it was a long way to the ground and I might break something. My tooth ran into my lip, but I jumped up and ran away as far as I could, which was under the bridge of the creek that separated our place from Joey's. I sat there a long time before I remembered Elberta talking to herself when I asked about the pink letters. So I went to find her. She was cutting up chicken. She looked at me over her glasses. 340 "Well," she said, "you look like you had just eaten a stinkbug." "Elberta," I said, "Dad wants to marry a stepmother." Elberta gave a big whack at the chicken leg and cut it off with one swipe. "Well," she said with a funny look on her face. "What about it? I guess he couldn't marry anything that wouldn't be a stepmother." "But, Elberta," I said, "I don't want him to marry anything. I don't want any old stepmother!" Elberta gave another big whack at the chicken and jerked her hand back. "Now, look what you've made me do, coming around bothering me. Now, I've cut my finger." She wrapped her apron around it and started for the bathroom. Then she turned. "Freddie," she said, "you aren't marrying her. It's your father, and he's always before known what he was doing." And then she went on to the bathroom. FTER that Dad didn't say any more to me about it. And I thought he had forgotten. He was like he used to be. We played Battalion. Dad put on his grandfather's. Uniform that he wore in the Mormon Battalion, and I put on the coonskin cap that had come all the way across the plains. He took his grandfather's old musket, and I took the sawed-off shotgun, and we stood at attention. "Colonel," I said, "I don't want to go to war. My wife and children need me to cross the plains to Zion." "Sir," said Dad, "our country has called us. Our leader, Brigham Young, has said we should go. We must not be selfish. If we follow the instructions of our leader our families will be taken care of." I saluted and said, "Very well, sir." So we put our guns over our shoulders and marched all the way to Mexico and up to California and back to Utah. Mexico was the bottom of the orchard. California was the bridge over the creek, and Utah was the apple tree. By the squawberry bush near the creek we fought many a battle. We searched for water holes and shot wild animals. It was wonderful, playing Battalion with my Dad. Then, one night he came and sat on my bed. He kissed me and there were tears in his eyes like the day he was looking at mother's picture so hard. "Freddie," he said, "are you my pal?" I was scared. "Sure," I said, have been." And then he just looked at me for a long time. "Why, Dad, did peu cry when you asked me?" He took hold of my hand hard. "I'm going away, Freddie, for a week. When I come back I'll have your new mother." It was like I had fallen into a black hole. But my father's voice was going on from the top of the pit. "I want you to be nice to her, Freddie. You see I love you both very much." And then he leaned and kissed me again. And I wiped off the kiss and burst out crying, even if I didn't want to. I didn't know when he left, be- "just like we always BATTALION cause I covered my face with the blanket and wished I could smother. But afterwhile I put my head out because it was so miserable with wet tears and heat. The moon was shining through the window and it had a big smiling face. But I guess the moon could smile because it never had any stepmother. Then I went to sleep and dreamed the moon was my stepmother who chased me into a cloud cave so the lions could eat me. Then morning came, and Elberta came into my room, and her eyes were red and puffed up like when she ate too much chocolate and her allergy bothered her. Only this time she had a wet handkerchief wadded up in her hand. She told me this would be the last week she would be with me except on special occasions, so she wanted us to have a good time. But we didn't have a good time. Elberta kept scrubbing the house and talking to herself. 'That was the week Joey told me to run away. He said I should hide my clothes under the bridge and escape up in the hills and be a hermit and eat rattlesnakes. But I didn't want to be a hermit. I just wanted my Dad like he was before he found the old stepmother. So, here I was in the apple tree and there was nothing I could think of to do. O, pretty soon the week was gone and my father came home. There they were standing at the door. Dad had his arm around her, and he was smiling like he was happy. I felt like there was nobody wanted me. She had on a white hat with flow- 


 ers and pink nbbon. 'There was brown hair curling around her face, and her eyes were blue and sparkling. I thought of Snow White's wicked queen who was so beautiful, and who tried to kill her. She held out her hand and smiled. I looked at Elberta so I wouldn't have to look at her. She talked to Elberta. "I've heard what wonderful things you cook and what good care you have taken of Freddie." Elberta smiled all over like she was her best friend. "I just know you are going to be a wonderful wife for Mr. Burton," she said. And I had to gulp for breath because 342 now she had fooled Elberta just like Dad. Dad said, "Freddie, I want you to say hello to your new mother." I turned and ran to my own room and shut the door. Then I went to bed. Afterwhile my father came and stood by me and I pretended I was asleep. I wanted him to put his hand on my shoulder and tell me he would send her away and it would be like it always was. But he didn't. I cried myself to sleep. Next morning I didn't go to breakfast. I thought my father would come and tell me to, but he didn't. But after he had gone to work I hid behind the kitchen door and watched her gather up the dishes. She had on a ruffly dress and a pink apron with lace on it. She stopped by my empty plate and looked at it. Then she sat down and looked at it. I guessed she was thinking about pushing me in the creek. I started outside, past the room that used to belong to my father. And now it was hers, too. The door was open, and I could see the white hat on the bed. I hated it. And then I thought of it. If I could do something to her to make her angry she would go away and leave us alone like we used to be. I slipped in very carefully and got the hat. Then I went after Joey who was digging fish worms for his Dad. We set them down by the house and took the hat out in the back and put it on the clothesline pole. And we shot it full of holes with our beebee guns. We shot the flowers and the ribbon until it looked like Joey's dog had chewed it. 'Then we hid in the berry bushes until she came around the house. She had some scissors and started to cut roses. 'Then she saw the hat. For a minute she just looked at it like something was going to hit her. "Pretty soon she'll get mad and start to holler at you," Joey said. "Then she'll run away." But she didn't. She came over and took it off the pole and looked at it again like what happened? Then, all at once, dike she thought of something, she smiled. Then she walked over to the garbage can and opened the lid. She cut the hat m two with the scissors and threw it in the can and went on cutting TOses. BATTALION "She didn't even care," I said to Joey. He just shrugged his shoulders. "We'll have to do something meaner," he said. So'we got her pink apron that was hanging by the sink and pinned it on the clothesline and threw mud all over it. And we hid again. But all she did was look at it a minute and then she picked up a handful of mud and threw it on the apron, too, and went into the house like nothing happened. Joey thought of something scrumptious then. We got her shoe and we killed grasshoppers and filled it full of them. We set it in front of the kitchen door. When she came out and saw it, she jumped, and we thought we had finally found something to make her mad. But she straightened up and looked around like she was hunting something. Then she saw the worm can. She picked it up and dumped the worms into her shoe and went around the house singing to herself. "Aw, shucks," Joey said, "I'm going home and dig some more worms." could tell there was nothing I could do to make her go away. I sat in the apple tree and thought about Joey telling me to run away. I wondered how nasty rattlesnakes WETEe. So I got Dad's suitcase that he took on business trips and went to my room. I put all the clothes in, it would hold. I took the coonskin cap and the sawed-off shotgun. When I put the cap in I started to cry. But I wiped the tears on my 


 sleeve and went on with my business. Then, in the mirror, I saw her watching me. She was standing in the door with a funny look. "Eavesdropper!" I burst out and dropped over on the bed crying. I didn't mean to cry. Even if she was a stepmother I didn't want her to see me crying, when I was a big boy eight years old. She came over to the bed and sat down by me. She put her hand on my arm. "Freddie, I didn't mean to eavesdrop. We could talk. I." I jerked her hand off. "Leave me alone!" I yelled. "Freddie," she said, still sitting there. "It's all right to cry. But please let me talk to you when you're finished." "IT don't want to talk to you!" I wailed. "I don't like you. You took my Dad away from me! You — you want to push me in the creek, and you're mean and ugly." The sobs were shaking me so hard I couldn't say any more. So I covered my head with the pillow and let it come. She just sat there and let me cry. Then, when I could finally. Stop, she took the pillow and laid it on the other side of the bed. "Freddie," she said, "I want you to know I love you very much. Whatever would make you think I want to push you in the creek?" "Because that's what stepmothers do. They take children into the woods for the bears to eat. Or they drop them in a well or." "Why, Freddie," she said, "those are only the stepmothers in storybooks. Do you know that I had a stepmother?" 344 I just thought maybe I sat up on the bed. "You?" She smiled then, and there were crinkles around her eyes. "Yes, and I loved her very much. We were pals." "Didn't she take your Dad away from you?" She had her arm around my shoulder, and I didn't know whether to push it off or not. "No," she said, "you see there was room in his heart for both of us." "But my Dad don't like me any more. And he won't ever play Battalion with me again!" "Battalion?" she asked, "What kind of game could that be?" "It's about the Mormon Battalion. And my _ father always played it with me." "Oh, Freddie," she said, smiling. "Let's play Battalion. I'd love to." "You?" I said, looking at her, because I couldn't believe it. "Of course. Please show me how." ND then, before I knew it, I forgot about her being a stepmother. I got the uniform and we put it on her. We tied a rope around her and let it bag over so it wouldn't trip her down. I gave her the musket, and I put on the coonskin cap and took the sawedoff shotgun. And then we stood up and I started to tell her what to say. Then, all at. Once, I knew I had been. Selfish and not believed my father who was my leader. "Colonel," I said, "I'm sorry we shot your hat full of holes." "Sir," she said, without even smiling, "think nothing of it. It was an ugly old hat. I didn't like it." "And it was mean to throw mud on your pretty apron." "Ah," she said, "who cares about a little mud? It was dirty, anyway." "And the grasshoppers. I'll never do that any more." "Freddie," she said with her gun held high, "it is tough things like grasshoppers and worms that make tough soldiers." I was so happy, I turned a somersault. "Just wait until I tell Joey. He'll wish he had a stepmother!" Then we both laughed and started to Mexico. When we got by the squawberry bush, and it was time for the Indians to attack, suddenly there was a war whoop, and I jumped nearly BATTALION out of my skin.. She jumped, too, and we both started to laugh because it was Dad hiding in the bushes. And he had a _ turkey feather in his hat and some blackberry jam down his nose for war paint. "Dad!" I cried, and ran to him. "How did you know we were playing Battalion?" "Oh," he said, and with one arm he hoisted me up on his shoulder, "as I came home I heard you laughing, and I peeked in to see what was happening. This is all the make-up I had time to find. Tl do better next time." And then he put his other arm around my beautiful stepmother, and we marched to California and on to Utah, just like my father's grandfather had done.