[Vol40 | May 1953 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: The Purposefulness of]
The  Purposefulness  of  Life 
W.  CJeon  Skousen 
Director  of  Alumni  and  Public  Services,  Brigham  Young  University 
[Address  Delivered  at  the  Annual  General  Relief  Society  Conference,  October  i,  1952] 
THIS  
is  a  great  privilege  to  be 
here  this  morning  and  to 
catch  the  spirit  of  this  oc- 
casion. I  think  that  in  this  coming 
year,  as  we  approach  the  subjects 
which  Brother  Joseph  Fielding 
Smith  has  set  forth  in  his  book  The 
Piogiess  of  Man,  we  will  find  that 
the  social  science  lessons  will  give 
additional  purposefulness  to  our 
lives.  In  fact,  I  believe  the  main 
objective  of  these  lessons  is  to  help 
us  understand  that  we  are  part  of  a 
great  program.  These  are  days  in 
which  there  are  many  voices  abroad 
in  the  earth,  and  the  ones  we  listen 
to  are  the  ones  we  will  probably  fol- 
low. We  have  to  discriminate  not 
only  in  what  we  read,  but  in  what 
we  are  willing  to  listen  to  and  ac- 
cept. 
Our  objective  is  to  find  out  those 
things  which  will  make  for  long- 
range  enjoyment,  understanding, 
and  appreciation.  It  is  most  im- 
portant that  every  member  of  the 
Relief  Society  understands  the  pur- 
posefulness of  what  the  Church  is 
trying  to  do.  Up  in  Idaho,  down 
on  some  lonely  farm  in  Nevada,  out 
in  the  glamor  capital  of  California, 
here  in  Utah,  or  back  in  the  shad- 
ows of  the  skyscrapers  of  New  York, 
you  may  become  very  discouraged. 
You  may  forget  that  there  is  pur- 
posefulness in  it  all.  You  may  feel 
overwhelmed  by  what  you  are  asked 
to  do— to  rear  children,  to  be  a  lov- 
ing companion   to  a  husband,   to 
Page  286 
mend  overalls,  nurse  the  sick,  cut 
hair,  bathe  a  flock  of  little  people, 
go  Relief  Society  teaching,  teach  in 
Primary,  put  up  some  fruit,  do  the 
housework,  and  then  have  some- 
body say,  ''Won't  you  take  a  little 
time  out  and  read  some  good  litera- 
ture?" 
But  there  is  purposefulness  in  all 
of  this,  and  we  must  not  get  so  over- 
whelmed that  we  begin  to  feel  with- 
in ourselves  that  it  is  just  too  big 
for  us  to  handle;  because  it  isn't. 
All  of  you  here  are  to  be  congratu- 
lated because  you  are  in  the  gradu- 
ate school  of  the  Church.  It  is 
not  just  anyone  who  can  be  a  Re- 
lief Society  officer.  Only  those  who 
have  learned  how  to  gear  their 
thinking  and  their  living  and  their 
personal  discipline  to  a  very  high
