VOL 40 NO 5 MAY 19 53

The Cover: "Yucca Blossoms," Photograph by Josef Muench Frontispiece: "Blossomtime Near Los Altos, California," Photograph by Jeff Thomson Cover Design by Evan Jensen From lear and Sar I express my thanks and appreciation for the high quality material offered in. Our Relief Society Magazine. I live in the mission field and am so proud to display our Magazine and talk with non-member friends about it. I have very much enjoyed the series of articles on early Amenican Glass (by Alberta H. Christensen). Both the history and the pictures are most interesting. Please publish more articles of this sort to help educate the sisters to appreciate more fully this art. I also want to thank you for the wonderful lessons. —Mrs. Warren F. Wilhite North Little Rock, Arkansas This morning I read the fine editorial in the March number of The Relief Society Magazine (Dwight D. Eisenhower Inaugurated President of the States) and am very thrilled with it. You have said the very things I wanted to say, and given the exact information I need to have, to enter in our Stake Relief Society History. —Clara Horne Park San Mateo, California After reading the article "Fisher Towers" in The Relief Society Magazine for August 1952, by Celia Luce, I visited the area which she so vividly described and found a remarkable example of nature's sculpture work in colors of great beauty, and turrets and towers of majestic height, revealing more of the wonders of the Colorado River country. —Victor J. Nelson Holladay, Utah The entire May Magazine is packed with beauty and worth from the daffodils (frontispiece photograph) — symbols of the resurrection of spring, to the last page. My heart sings its gratitude. I must also mention the beauty of concept and imagery in "A Tribute to Visiting Teachers" (frontispiece poem by Alberta H. Christensen). In re

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Belle S. Spafford - - Marianne C. Sharp. - - - - Velma N. Simonsen - - - - Margaret C. Pickering - - -. Achsa E. Paxman Blanche B. Stoddard RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD " President First-Counselor Second Counselor - Secretary-Treasurer Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Mary G. Judd Evon W. Peterson Josie B. Ba Mary S. Boyer Anna B. Hart Leone O. Jacobs Christine H,. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Edith S. Elliott Mary J. Wilson Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Florence J. Madsen Lillie C. Adams Nellie W. Neal Winniefred S. Leone G. Layton Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Manwaring
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor - > - - Associate Editor - - - - - = = P - General Manager - < ze Z id - / 7
Elna P. Haymond - Marianne C. Sharp - Vesta P. Crawford - Belle S. Spafford 

Vol. 40 MAY 1953 No. 5
Contents
SPECIAL FEATURES
Ten Conditions Which Contribute to a Happy Home by David O. McKay 284 The Purposefulness of Life by W. Cleon Skousen 286 The Coronation of a Beloved Queen by Ramona W. Cannon 291 Travel Highlights—Highway in Venezuela by Elizabeth Williamson 321
FICTION
Sweetpeas by Lois E. Forkner 298 A Time to Forget—Chapter 11 by Fay Tarlock 306 Lucky Two Shoes by Frances C. Yost 316 Karren by Blanche M. Hollingsworth 320
GENERAL FEATURES
From Near and Far 282 Sixty Years Ago 300 Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 301 Editorial: "The Song Of the Righteous" by Marianne C. Sharp 302 In Memoriam—Emma Adams Empey 304 Magazine Subscriptions for 1952 by Marianne C. Sharp 322 The Magazine Honor Roll for 1952 326
FEATURES FOR THE HOME
The Stranger in My Garden by Alice Whitson Norton 310 By Early Candlelight—IV. A Pioneer Bedroom by Bonnie A. Kesler 313 Tricks With Flour Sacks by Leona Bammes Gardner 319
POETRY
A Place Apart—Frontispiece by Dorothy J. Roberts 281
After the Feast by Iris W. Schow 289 My Mother by Marjorie L. Hafen 297
The Pepper Tree by Mary Hess Hackney 303 My Gift by Alice Morrey Bailey 304
One Shining Day by Josephine J. Harvey 305 A Mother's Debt by Christie Lund Coles 312
The Little Gray Horse by Katherine F. Larsen 315
Web of Words by Margery S. Stewart 319 My Wish for You by Bernice T. Clayton 358
Mother by Emily Carey Alleman 358
About Flowers by Elaine Swain 358 A Humming Bird by Catherine E. Berry 359
Sea Call by Eva Willes Wangsgaard 360
Silenced by Hannah C. Ashby 360
Spring Bride by Maxine H. Holbrook 360
Gift Divine 360

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: scriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: 40
North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Sub- $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. 
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. 

Courtesy Deseret N ews ' PRESIDENT DAVID O. McKAY AND SISTER EMMA RAY RIGGS McKAY Sen Conditions Which Contribute to a Happy Home President David O. McKay (From an Address Delivered at the Dedication of the South Idaho Falls Stake and Eighth Ward Chapel, at Idaho Falls, Idaho, December 7, 1952) 1. Ever keep in mind you begin to lay the foundation of a happy home in your pre-marital lives. While in courtship you should learn to be loyal and true to your future husband or wife. Keep yourselves clean and pure. Cherish the highest ideals of chastity and purity. Do not be deceived. Page 284 2. Choose your mate by judgment and inspiration, as well as by physical attraction. Intellect and breeding are vital and important in the human family. | 3. Approach marriage with the lofty view it merits. Marriage is ordained of God. It is not something to be entered into lightly or to be dissolved at the first difficulty that arises. We have in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the highest concept of marriage that exists in the world—the eternal nature of the marriage covenant. 4, Remember that the noblest purpose of marriage is procreation. Home is children's natural nursery. Happiness in the home is enhanced by having children at the fireside. 5. Let the spirit of reverence pervade the home. Have your home such that if the Savior called unexpectedly he could be invited to stay and not feel out of his element. Pray in the home. 6. Let husband or wife never speak in loud tones to each other. 7. Learn the value of self-control. We are never sorry for the word unspoken. Lack of self-control is the greatest source of unhappiness in the home. Children should be taught selfcontrol, self-respect, and respect for others. 8. Fasten home ties by continued companionship. Companionship fosters love. Do everything to cement love for all eternity. 9. Make accessible to children, proper literature and music. 10. By example and precept, encourage participation in Church activity. This is fundamental in developing a true character. Church activity should be led, not directed by parents. Page 285
The Purposefulness of Life W. Cleon Skousen Director of Alumni and Public Services, Bingham Young University [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 1, 1952] here this morning and to T HIS is a great privilege to be catch the spirit of this occasion. I think that in this coming year, as we approach the subjects which
