[Vol40 | May 1953 | Sequence: 37 | Category: Article | Title: North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Sub- $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address]
Frontispiece:  Mount  Timpanogos,  Utah,  Photograph  by  Josef  Muench 
Cover  Design  by  Evan  Jensen

CJrotn    I  Lear  and  QJar 
I  thank  Mrs.  A.  Rich  of  Ogden,  Utah, 
who  has  paid  my  subscription  to  the  Mag- 
azine yearly.  It  is  a  very  inspiring  Maga- 
zine in  giving  such  wonderful  addresses 
from  -God's  word.  Also,  I  enjoy  the  beau- 
tiful poems.  My  uncle,  John  Cozzens, 
who  was  one  of  the  pioneers  to  the  West, 
and  the  father  of  Mrs.  A.  Rich,  was  my 
mother's  eldest  brother  whom  she  loved 
very  dearly. 
— Mary  J.  Bevan 
Burton,  Neyland, 
Pembroke,  Wales 
I  look  forward  each  month  to  receiving 
our  very  inspiring  Magazine.     Words  fail 
to  tell  you  of  the  good  I  receive. 
Mrs.  Olive  A.  Isom 
Las  Vegas,  Nevada 
This  is  the  place  where  summer  spends 
the  winter — and  flowers  grow.  I  have 
been  a  subscriber  to  the  Magazine  for 
many  years.  My  husband,  Charles  Hall- 
strom,  and  I  reared  a  family  of  twelve  sons 
and  daughters  in  Oakley,  Utah,  and  I 
always  had  time  to  read  the  Magazine. 
My  visiting  teaching  companion  and  1 
made  our  calls  by  team  and  sleigh,  as  the 
homes  were  scattered,  but  the  sisters 
always  welcomed  us  and  our  message  and 
were  always  glad  to  have  us  read  from  the 
Magazine  to  them.  I  am  seventy-seven 
years  old,  but  still  love  to  go  to  Relief 
Society  meetings.  I  remember  when  Sis- 
ter Emmeline  B.  Wells  came  with  other 
sisters  to  conduct  Relief  Society  confer- 
ence in  Coalville,  Utah.  I  have  daugh- 
ters who  work  in  Relief  Society,  too. 
— Amelia  Hallstrom 
Miami  Beach,  Florida 
While  reading  through  The  Rdiei  So- 
ciety Magazine,  I  appreciate  more  and 
more  the  stories  that  are  published  in 
each  issue,  with  special  mention  going 
to  Frances  C.  Yost.  Her  stories  have  im- 
pressed me  a  great  deal.  "Deflated  Dollar" 
(March  1953)  is  so  true  to  these  times. 
It  makes  one  realize  just  how  fast  the 
times  are  changing.  I  do  hope  you  will 
publish  many  more  of  her  stories. 
— Olga  Y.  Herzog 
Logan,  Utah 
Page  364 
Since  its  first  issue  I  have  read  and  en- 
joyed The  Relief  Society  Magazine.  Before 
that  I  read  mother's  treasured  copies  of 
the  Woman's  Exponent.  But  I  do  not 
recall  one  story  that  was  quite  so  whole- 
somely entertaining  as  the  story  "The 
Family  Reunion"  (March  1953)  by 
Yvonne  Child  Hiss.  Success  to  an  out- 
standing Magazine. 
— Emily  J.  Jewkes 
Orangeville,  Utah 
I  have  enjoyed  selling  The  Relief  So- 
ciety Magazine,  as  the  sisters  of  our  ward 
seem  to  feel  that  it  is  a  necessity  in  their 
homes.  I  just  remind  them  that  their 
subscriptions  have  expired,  and  they  always 
respond.  The  Magazine  sells  itself  once  it 
has  been  in  the  home.  It  is  a  privilege  to 
place  such  an  inspiring  and  wonderful 
Magazine  in  our  Latter-day  Saint  homes. 
— Idella  Walker 
Jerome,  Idaho 
There  are  no  Latter-day  Saint  services 
near  here  that  we  can  find,  so  The  Relief 
Society  Magazine  is  my  only  contact  with 
Relief  Society.  My  sister  renews  the 
Magazine  for  my  birthday,  and  it  is  one  of 
the  most  valuable  gifts  I  receive. 
— Mrs.  J.  C.  Larson 
Ulm,  Germany 
From  the  time  I  was  a  child  in  my 
parents'  home  until  now,  as  mother  of 
six,  I've  read  The  Relief  Society  Maga- 
zine from  cover  to  cover.  It  has  helped 
me  to  feel  close  to  our  leaders.  It  has 
never  failed  to  give  inspiration  and  satis- 
fy my  spiritual  hunger.  More  than  any- 
thing else,  it  keeps  us  young  mothers 
aware  of  the  real  purpose  of  our  exist- 
ence and  our  opportunities  in  our  Church 
and  in  our  calling. 
— June  B.   Bartholomew 
Milford,  Utah 
I  want  to  thank  you  for  the  inspiring 
pages  that  are  mine  to  read  each  month 
in  The  Relief  Society  Magazine. 
— Zelda  Howard 
Bountiful,  Utah