3
Our President's Visit
President Louise Y. Robison has been radiating a good deal of enthusiasm since her return from the Biennial of the National Council of Women held in New York during the month of November. The program of the session, comprehensive and varied in nature, emphasized matters of interest in the home and community, such as education and the moving picture. Sister Robison remained after the session, visiting Relief Societies in the Eastern States Mission. Our one regret in the matter is our sheer inability to express the interest and enthusiasm breathing through the verbal report of the President as she made it to the General Board.
On her way she visited the organizations in Chicago, where she found a large group putting over the lesson work in an especially intelligent manner. From there she went to Cleveland, which brought to her an opportunity to visit Kirtland and behold the Kirtland Temple. The Temple at Kirtland has not gone unnoticed in recent years; its stability and beauty have been written of by American architects. The President's account was in harmony with the general opinion. She expressed herself as impressed with the architecture; and counted it a solemn moment in her life to stand near the bronze tablet indicating the place where heavenly messengers had stood.
On her way to the Council meeting the President held a district conference at Palmyra. At the close of the day's meetings, in company with Sister Alice D. Moyle, President of the Eastern States Relief Society and Sister Ruth May Fox, the President of the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, she visited the Hill Cumorah and the Sacred Grove. The Grove was seen at sunset, its crimson light casting a glamor over the falling leaves of the autumnal season. Nature and the memory of divine visitations mingled to produce a feeling of spiritual exaltation. Yet another factor was soon to enter in and emphasize the occasion. Sister Robison, Sister Moyle, and Sister Fox had gone to the Grove in an automobile; later came a group of missionaries, who had walked over the colorful landscape to that historic spot. It occurred to Sister Robison that a song of praise, often appreciated as we pass in life's journey, could nowhere be more appropriate than in the Grove, where the Father and Son had appeared to the youth who
 
was destined to be the leader of modern Latter-day Israel. Sister Moyle told the group of missionaries that Sister Robison would very much like to hear them sing; and this request they met with a rendition of "An Angel From On High."
The Relief Society at Palmyra came in for a just meed of praise. It furnishes a good example of how it is possible for the spirit of an organization to carry over and inspire to noble deeds. In that city of historic interest, there are five Latter-day Saint women who are all provided for, but who felt the urge to look about to see if there were those in the community not so fortunate. One of the women acquainted with school work learned that it was difficult to obtain milk for some of the undernourished children attending the school. To meet the situation the Palmyra Relief Society contributed $5.50, which furnishes milk for one child during the year. Later they remodeled clothing for the children who were not warmly and appropriately clad. When the teachers at the school saw what a splendid job had been done, they gave to the Relief Society their old clothing, to make use of in a similar manner. The attention of the Superintendent of schools was drawn to the situation and he remarked that he wished there were more women in the community who would busy themselves in so worthy a cause.
Sister Robison visited the Smith farm, where she enjoyed greatly the association of Elder Willard Bean and his wife. Through Brother Bean's initiative thirty thousand trees have been planted on the path to and on the Hill Cumorah, which for some time past has presented a rather barren appearance.
Visits were made to the Associations in Philadelphia and Washington, and to Brooklyn, Albany, and Schenectady in New York State; also to Newark and Union City, in New Jersey. It is interesting to know, in relation to the Organizations in New Jersey, that a good many of the members are German Saints, who have immigrated rather recently. Later Hartford, Connecticut, was visited, also Providence, Rhode Island, where one's attention is drawn to the fact that many are of English extraction. Then followed the visit to Boston, where Sister Robison was a guest in the home of her son Rulon Y. Robison, who is on the teaching staff of the New England Conservatory of Music. Here, as in New York City and Brooklyn, the organization is made up partly of students, who are in these centers studying, and the wives of professional men, who are there serving various educational and business institutions.
The courteous attention extended President Robison by the missionaries affected her deeply. She feels that it is only due them that the Magazine should carry her message of deep gratitude for all the kindness shown her while she was away. Everywhere the young missionaries, young ladies as well as young men, gave thoughtful attention to the details that helped to make her visit so thoroughly enjoyable and so truly profitable. Chief among those who served her faithfully and well were the esteemed President of the Mission, Elder James H. Moyle, and his wife who is the President of the Relief Society of the Eastern States Mission.