A short NOTES FROM THE FIELD report and greeting was given by the Priesthood President, A. V. Watkins. The music was under the direction of Sister Wells, and a beautiful number was furnished by each of the wards in the stake. The Relief Society Magazine means very much to the sisters of this stake, and they hope to increase their membership and also their subscriptions to the Magazine. Alberta Stake: The Alberta stake board members were very desirous of encouraging effort along the lines of "Better Homes," and "Increased Reading." After due consideration of these topics, they adopted the slogan "We stand for Better Homes Through the Increase of Wholesome, Intelligent Reading." This slogan was beautifully printed upon large sheets of white cardboard. One of these was presented to each organization by the stake representative attending the ward conference. The slogan was hung upon a wall of the ward Relief Society room where it served as a constant reminder. A twenty minute talk was given on the slogan by the stake board member, and a talk on practical suggestions for the betterment of our homes was given by a ward member. As a further inducement it was decided to have a poetry contest, in which the slogan should be the theme and title of the poems. Rules and regulations governing the contest were prepared. It was open to all Relief Society members and was conducted during the months of July and August, and eighteen poems were submitted. In keeping with the slogan, books were 147 selected for the prizes and were awarded at the general session of the stake Priesthood meeting held in September. The prize-winning poems were published in the local newspaper. The stake board feels that these activities have produced the desired results; that more wholesome and intelligent reading is being done by the women of this stake than ever before. The board is pleased also that its member in charge of reading is enthusiastic and has worked out a very fine system for checking and ascertaining the amount and kind of reading done by the members of the stake. This stake is outstanding in the very fine work that has been done through the clinics, some of the largest and most successful ever held in the province of Alberta. The first clinic was held at the School of Agriculture, a provincial government institution, which met the need temporarily. Three hundred and ninety-five physical examinations were made, 104 operations attended to, 391 dental examinations, and a great number of fillings and extractions which were very necessary. There was also an eye specialist present who conducted examinations. The sisters of the Alberta stake feel very. Much encouraged. They are trying to follow the instructions that have been given them along all lines of Relief Society work. Ward conferences have been held, and a very successful bazaar. The reports that come from our northern stakes indicate that the sisters are keenly alive to their work, and appreciate the opportunities that are afforded. Organization and Reorganization Zion Park Stake: It gives the Presidency and General Board of Relief Society great pleasure to welcome into the group of stakes the youngest, Zion Park. The new stake begins its career un-. 148 der very happy auspices, we feel, and we are delighted to welcome to our group of stake presidents, Sister Josephine Sandberg, president; Sister Augusta Wood, first counselor; Sister Mary A. Gubler, second counselor; Sister Mary W. Hall, secretary-treasurer. We congratulate the new stake on its choice of these sisters, and we are very sure that the Relief Society of the Zion Park stake is in very capable hands. Our best wishes are with it, and we are at the service of this stake, as of all others, for anything that we are able to do. Nevada Stake: The office is in receipt of a report of the reorganization of the Nevada stake Relief Society. President Mary E. Horlacher has been released at her own request. Mrs. Louisa C. Johnson has been named as president, with Mrs. Mathilda Swallow and Mrs. Ethel Matheson as her counselors. Sister Horlacher and her associates have been most diligent in their service in Relief Society work, and we feel that they retire from office with the blessing of the entire community.
Tooele Stake: One of the most recent reorganizations which has been reported is that of the Tooele stake. On January 12, 1930, at the regular quarterly conference, Sister Maggie W. Anderson, who has served the Relief Society long and well in the capacity of stake president, was released, and Sister Lillian H. Anderson was sustained as president, with Sister Charlotte Fawson and Sister Mary E. Halladay as her two counselors. We have always felt to congratulate these stakes on their able leadership, and we know that a wise choice has been made to succeed
 
the sisters who have served long and ably in the work, and we congratulate the stakes on their present leadership as on their past. The love and best wishes of the General Board go to the retiring and the present officers of both the Nevada and the Tooele stake.
Juarez Stake: Another reorganization this Winter is that of the Juarez stake. Official notification has come to the office that the stake has been reorganized, that Sister Fannie C. Harper was released as president, and Sister Nelle S. Hatch has been chosen to succeed Sister Harper. We feel that a wise choice has been made in naming Sister Hatch to this position of stake president, and we look for the same fine cooperation from the Juarez stake that has always existed with the General Office of the Relief Society, and our very best wishes are extended to Sister Hatch, with the hope that we shall be able to be of service.
As Sister Harper is retiring from the position of Relief Society president, we feel it is quite proper for us to express the sincere appreciation and great admiration we have for her excellent service covering many critical years. During this period there have been scenes that only the most courageous souls could face, but Sister Harper has always been equal to the emergency. Much of her splendid service came from her great faith in the people, and through her untiring efforts to serve their best interests in temporal as well as spiritual matters. We are quite sure that in her retirement from office she still cherishes the desire to be of service to her people, and we know that the love and best wishes of all our sisters accompany her in her retirement.
Who is your "boss" in the evening?
During the working day, your time belongs to your employer. But in the evening you are the "boss" of your own time. How you use it?how you plan your leisure hours ? will determine your future success in life.
If you want a bigger salary check? a better position?then watch the evening hours when you are "working for yourself."
Join the group of ambitious people who are attending our night school. Prepare for something better without losing a day from your present job?or a single penny from your pay.
Call at office or mail your name for complete details:
COURSES Stenography Typewriting Bookkeeping Penmanship Arithmetic
L. D. S.