"Our wagons were the first to cross the river at the time of the exodus. They were ferried across on a flat boat February 2, 1846. There had been a thaw, and the boat was kept busy until the river froze over again and the wagons could cross on the ice. I remember that in the middle of the stream we had to stop to let a great block of ice pass. After we had crossed there was some rain and a little snow."
The company in which she traveled continued to a point about 100 miles west of Winter Quarters near a Pawnee Indian village. They were instructed by Brigham Young to remain there for the winter if conditions would permit. Thirty-eight of the fifty families moved still farther west, where they spent a hard winter, while her father with the other families returned to Winter Quarters.
"It was a hard winter," she said. "Not so much for the lack of food, but because of the chills. We just shook all winter long. I don't know how father got the money to pay for them, but he went into Missouri and bought a load of supplies, though he shook with chills all the way. We lived in a log cabin with a dirt roof and a dirt floor."
The saddest event of that winter was the death of her mother. She was now left to the care of her foster mother, her father's plural wife. In the spring of 1847 her father, Charles Shumway, and her brother Andrew, were called to go with the pioneer company to the west. Not long after their departure, her little three-year-old sister died.
"Those were trying days," she said as tears filled her eyes. "My mother and sister dead, and father and brother on their way to an unknown land."
"What do you remember best about your experiences while crossing the plains," she was asked?
"Buffaloes," was the answer. "Oceans of them. Sometimes we could see them, it seemed, for miles in all directions. It took only a few minutes to provide fresh meat for the whole company.
"Once our cattle stampeded. The wagons had been arranged in a circle to form a corral. During the night something frightened them and they all made a break for an opening. One of the oxen jumped entirely over a wagon where a girl
161
was sleeping without waking her up."
She crossed the plains in Jedediah M. Grant's company, arriving in Salt Lake City October 12th, 1847. Here she met her father and brother and lived in the fort for two years. Her first school teacher was W. W. Phelps. For pastime she and her friends bathed in the warm springs and gathered berries and segoes.
In 1849 her father was called to Manti and later to Payson, where he operated a saw mill. While living in Manti, Joseph Allen struck an Indian who had tantalized him to the point of desperation. The Indians soon gathered and after a council of war, demanded the lives of two men. The two men selected by them were her father, Charles Shumway, and Darwin Chase. The matter was finally compromised by brother Allen giving up his two oxen. The people all contributed a little and bought him some more.
At Payson, she experienced all the thrills, excitement, and worry of the Walker War. After the war they moved to Big Cottonwood, where she met and married Charles Westover in 1856. Her husband was called to St. George, where he was a veteran threshing machine man in southern Utah almost to the day of his death.
During her residence in the southern part of the state, she lived at Pine Valley two years, Pinto, ten years and Hamblin, eight years. While at Pinto a great flood came and carried away all they had. It was Sunday, and she was alone in the house with Grandma Westover. All at once, she discovered that the house was surrounded with water and the front part of it was soon washed away. They were rescued by two young men who came and carried them to safety.
The town of Hamblin, in those
162
days, was a rather desolate place. One night while she was alone and pondering over conditions, she said aloud to herself, "How long must I remain in this place?" A voice from behind her seemed to say, "Eight years." Sure enough, she lived there just eight years.
In 1889 she moved with her family to Huntington, Emery County,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Utah, where she now lives. All her life she has been a faithful, enthusiastic worker in the Relief Society and other organizations of the Church. She is known far and near for her cheerfulness and kindness. To know her is to love her. October the 27th, last, she was ninety-four years old. May she live as long as life seems a pleasure.