[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | December | Issue: 9 | Title: A TRIBUTE. | Author: Unknown]

A TRIBUTE.

[By Mrs. E. B. Wells.]

	IN thinking of the long life of our dearly
beloved mother in Israel whose anniversary
of three quarters of a century we celebrate
today, one scarcely knows whether to look
backward at the chapter of events so full of
interest, historical and personal, or to look
forward with prophetic gaze into the mystic
vista of the ever thrilling future, and
calculating the manifold labors so nobly
achieved foretell that which is sure to be
the positive result of the work already so
far accomplished, that the reward is near at
hand. Even now the fruits of the harvest
season are beautifully ripe,and radiant with
promise of a golden fruition. But for one
brief moment we will take a retrospective
glance. 
	In a cottage by the sea, on a chilly
November day such as this perhaps, or
mayhap in one of those dense fogs that
are common in England at this season of
the year, the news that a child was born,
"only a girl" not much thought of it those
days, would not be very thrilling, and the
mother herself could scarce have dreamed
beforehand of all that we assembled here
today are conscions of; nor did she realize
then as we do now, who have the knowledge
of the Gospel of a pre-existence, where the
little one came from so fresh and pink and
rosy or what her mission here on earth was
likely to be. How tenderly she would
have reared this little stranger had she
known but half that would  befall her, what
her destiny, her life-work, how wide her
sphere, how grand her possibilities. These
were all unkown, locked in the bosom of
mysterious nature's living drama. But to
many of us, the living panorama is un-
furled. We know how crossing the mighty

[Column 2]
ocean when only a child, she had those
wonderful experiences that come with a
sea voyage in a sailing vessel, and also the
life in a new country that is full of strange
incidents, and is of necessity partically
educational.
	Like other young women too of 
all ages and times she fell in love, hav-
ing met an interestng young farmer at a
religious gathering a camp meeting, the
friendship begun soon ripened into an
intimacy that resulted in marriage about
two years after; a union which has proved
such a complete and happy one that we see
them even today as much like lovers as
husband and wife: the golden wedding
celebrated when fifty years had passed was
a rare event and now when the frost of
four score years have come to the bride-
groom, and three quarters of a century
to the once youthful bride, we find them as
handsome and as happy in the family rela-
tion as when they first took possession of
each other, and the little farm, home  in
Canada. Yes even more so, for the olive
branches that grew one by one, and two
by two around their hearthstone, have
grown to magnificent proportions, and two
or three generations of these, now crown
the lives and cluster round the hearts of
this venerable couple, whose days have
been so full of blessing, and of good works,
and whose evening of life is so glorious
with rosy light and glowing prommise.
What shall we say, what can we say more
than this, that we who are assembled here
today sahite you—greet you as those
who after a long and adventurous voyage
upon the changeful sea of life, are safely
resting in the haven of Zion ready even
now at this ripe age, to go forward at the
call of duty whenever and wherever the
wise Father, through his servants here on
earth may designate.
	That we love this Reverend mother is
apparent, there is no need to tell her so in
words, that she merits the love of the
daughters of Zion, of the whole house of
Israel is too well known to need repeating.
and in conclusion may our sister love as a
band of women workers be always true,
and our union strong and steadfast as the
everlasting hills 'mong which we dwell,
and may we never grow weary of the
works of charity, philanthropy, and pro-
gress in which we have been so long
engaged,and one of the foremost among the
illustrious women of our age and time will
ever stand the name of her whose birthday 
anniversary we celebrate today,  MARY
ISABELLE HORNE
	President Horne explained how she had
been affected by the honors shown her and
the many expressions of love and esteem
from those who had spoke, how glad she
was to see her fellow laborers gathered there
the tried and true ones, and to be honored
with the presence of the First Presidency of
the Church, she had not the language to
express how grateful she was to her 
Heavenly Father and to her friends for this
tribute, spoke of her pleasure in laboring
with those associated in the Relief Society
and hoped to deserve all that had been said
of her and that we all might continue to
labor together or even more diligently in
the future. 
	Sister Horne seemed greatly overcome
by the many manifestations of love and 
esteem expressed on every side. 
	At the close of the exercises Mrs. Taylor
who had presided with grace and dignity
during the afternoon, thanked the audience


for their attention, the honor they had
shown by their presence, congratulated
Sister Horne, and expressed her pleasure
in being associated with her in many labors
of love and charity, and the program closed
with benediction by President Lorenzo
Snow. Daintily prepared refreshments
were served to the entire company and
general conversation and greetings were
soon followed by adieus as evening ap-
proached.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
SANPETE RTAKE.
The Relief Society Conference of the
Sanpete Stake of Zion convened in the
Ephraim School House, September 22nd, 
1893. President M. A. P. Hyde presiding,
Conference opened with singing, “Lord we
come before thee now.” Opening prayer
by Bishop C. C. N. Dorius. Singing ‘‘Re-
deemer of Israel.” Statistical and
Financial report of the Relief Society of
Sanpete Stake, and the minutes of the last
conference were read and approved.
President M. A. P. Hyde hoped we
would have a time of rejoicing in our con-
ference, ‘‘Do not partake of the spirit of
the world but try and draw them to us, so
they can partake of the spirit of the Gospel
of Jesus Christ.”
The branches of the Relief Society of
Fountain Green, Moroni, Ephraim, and
Spring City were represented by their
presidents, all testifying of the good work
that is being done by the sisters.
Counselor Sarah Peterson said she
thought the sisters were doing well and did 
not think they could do any better. Spoke
at some length in regard to the storing
of wheat. Sister E. B. Wells, of Salt 
Lake City, referred to the storing of grain
and the counsel of President Young to
the sisters; also of the respect that was
shown to the Presidency of the Church in
attending the World’s Fair. Considered
the meeting held by our sisters in Chicago
and the visit of the Presidency had re-
moved a great deal of prejudice against us
as a people. Spoke in regard to the
World’s Fair. The impression that was
made on the people of the world at the
Relief Society and Y. L. M. I. A. meet-
ing s at Chicago, were very important.
Sister Elmina S. Taylor Territorial
President of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Salt
Lake City, rejoiced in the organization of
the Relief Society. ‘‘President Young
was inspired when he told the sisters to
store up grain for a time of famine. This
is a time of progress among the women of
the world and we do not want to be behind
them. The Relief Society is a blessing
throughout the land. May the Lord bless
us, that our meetings may be full of in-
struction.” Singing ‘‘Come, come ye
Saints.” Benediction by Bishop L. S.
Anderson.
AFTERNOON SESSION:—President M. A.
P. Hyde presiding; singing ‘‘Praise to the
man who communed with Jehovah.”
Prayer by Bishop Anderson. Singing,
‘‘Our God we raise to thee.” The two
branches of Manti Relief Society were
represented by their presidents as being in
a good condition, Counselor Minerva W.
Snow said: ‘‘My feelings I could not des-
cribe, the joy that filled my heart to hear
from the sisters of the prosperity of Zion,
It is very encouraging to have our brethren

[Column 2]
meet with us in our conference. Let us as
sisters in Zion take no praise unto our-
selves, but be humble and give the praise
unto our Father in Heaven, be thankful
for the blessings we enjoy daily. Let us
be patient and humble in our trials and the
Lord will bless us. Zion is arising and her
light is beginning to shine. Pray to our
Heavenly Father that he will keep our sons
and daughters in purity, that they may be-
come shining lights in the Kingdom of God’’
Counselor Sarah Peterson spoke concerning
hard times but said, “I think it is a good
time for we have plenty to eat and wear.
Advised the sisters to subscribe for the
EXPONENT. Sister Taylor said the
work of the Relief Society is a great and
glorious one. It is no good for us to
belong to any association unless we perform
our duties. Do we go to the Relief Society
meetings to gossip and talk about our
neighbors and the Priesthood? No, we go
there to be taught in the gospel. The
brethren are beginning to realize that wo-
men are a help in the kingdom of God I
thank God for the faithfulness and bravery
of our sisters through their troubles and
trials. Sustain your presidents and coun-
selors by your prayers. Also Sister Zina
D. Young and her counselors.
Be good wives and mothers and watch
your children, for Satan is trying to lure
them from purity and virtue. Ask God to
help you to know your duty and to do it.
Sister Wells spoke at some length on the
Silk Industry. Advised the sisters to plant
mulberry trees and raise cocoons.
Gave a description of some of the exhibits
at the World’s Fair. Referred briefly to
the different meetings of the women at
Chicago. “It is the express wish of Sister
Young that the branches of the Relief
Society should meet twice a month at
least.”
Sister Taylor desired the brethren and
sisters to teach their children their mother
tongue, those of different nationalities.
President M. A. P. Hyde thanked the
sisters for the information that they had
given ns. Sister Mary Petersen was sus-
tained as Stake Treasurer. Conference
adjourned for three months. Singing “The
Spirit of God like a fire is burning.”
Benediction by Brother John Schofield.
