[WomansExponent | Vol22 | 1893 | December | Issue: 9 | Title: SOME WOMEN'S LIVES. | Author: Unknown]

SOME WOMEN'S LIVES.

	THERE is a strange hunger in the average
female heart to be the one and only love of
some other heart. A God given instinct
no doubt, to make the monopoly of mar-
riage dear and desirable, but fatal if the
man be—as is often the case—selfish, need-
ing daily and systematic discipline;
tyrannical, requiring a little wise suppression
and deposing now and then; extravagant
needing constant lessons in economy, vain,
needing an occasional lesson in humility;
and the woman one of those poor, feeble
souls who meekly accept whatever is offered
and who will bear anything and everything
without a murmur rather than be found
fault with. A tender, sympathetic, self-
denying woman who deals with his follies
and faults gently and patiently, as she vain-
ly struggles to forget all the fond unrealized
dreams of her girlhood now so far behind
her; and feeling hopelessly in her inmost
heart that so far as her husband is concerned
the future holds naught of love or happi-
ness for her; feels with an icy pang a chill
sense of desolation and neglect, a
disappointment black as the murky clouds
which hide the blue of Heaven on a stormy
day; knows that her husband who has his
business acquaintances, his friends whom
he meets at the club and elsewhere is surely
growing away from her; that while she has
remained at home busy with household
duties and had grown rusty both in looks
and ideas, he has acquired the superficial
polish of the man of the world and has be-
come even more selfish, more egotistical
until he finally convinces her by continued
coldness and neglect that he is both weary
and ashamed of her. Oh! romantic idealist
with an impossible hero standing as the
type of all that lover and husband ought to
be in that bright fancy land which you

[Column 2]
imagine is the real earth upon which you
tread; how soon must the idol fall from his
pedestal into the dust and lie there degraded,
defaced; a thing to spurn with the foot and
put away with unfulfilled hopes and un-
realized dreams. Many and many a wife
who fulfills all her household duties faith-
fully who sits smiling conventional smiles by
her husband's side in public, live, the life
that honorable woman leads in this en-
lightened century, many and many a wife
looks back with a secret bitter smile to
those other days when she thought her
lord and master a hero, a noble champion,
who was always to be her lover and now!
	Many a neglected wife feels that same icy
chill; and such a pang is only the first of
many pangs which go on increasing until
they finally lose their power to sting so 
keenly; and the wife that meant to be so
patient, so loving and true becomes indiffer-
ent as to whether her husband spends his
evenings with her or elsewhere; oftentimes
finding herself glad that he is with her so
seldom. A strong-minded woman said to
me once: "Some women make so much of
trifles. Why, my husband is always out; 
and I'm sure I never fret over such a trifle,
and as for cards, provided he divides his
winnings with me I never think of object-
ing." And yet those very trifles are the
rocks on which many a poor woman's life
is wrecked.
"These trifles! Can it be they make or mar a
human life?
	Are souls as lightly swayed as rushes are,
By love or strife?
"Yea, yea! A look the fainting heart may break
	Or make it whole;
And just one word, if said for love's sweet sake
	May save a soul!"
	Memory brings before me to night, a fair,
young face, soft, confiding blue eyes and a
wealth of golden hair; now hidden under
a coffin lid; white their owner sleeps the
last sleep, the world forgotten, by the world
forgot. I saw her in her bridal robes when
she fondly imagined life held nothing but
sweets; that life, her life, would be one
long summer day; and I saw her agin
when she had proven the fallacy of it all-
had quaffed deep draughts of the bitter
waters of Marah, was again arrayed in her
bridal robes, but this time, she was the
bride of death. I well remember when
the first consciousness of her husband's cold-
ness and neglect began to dawn upon her.
She said no word uttered no complaint; but
the sweet face grew thin and pale, the
sweet blue eyes inexpressibly sad. Night
upon night she would sit alone watching
and waiting. Carriage after carriage would
roll by; sometimes one would stop and
then she would listen with intense eager-
ness expecting ever moment to hear his
step in the hall and then to see him enter
the room with his usual careless grace.
One night he came home even later than
usual had lost heavily at cards and had
been drinking. His wife was weeping
when he entered teh room. She was but a
girl in years, far away from relatives and
near friends and her "hour of trial" fast
approaching. To night a sense of utter
desolation, of intense loneliness seemed to
shut out every ray of light, of comfort.
Not one single glimmer pierced the black-
ness of the louds that were fast closing
about her. Vain were my attempts at
cousolation. Vain were the bright pictures
of a happy future with her babe. She
would only repeat in a weary despondent 
voice that spoke of bitter unshed tears. 

[Column 3]
	"You are very kind, dear friend and
mean well, but you do not understand. I
cannot tell you why or how but I know
life is over for me; and I am so tired, so tired,
that I am glad of it."
	As her husband entered the room he
laughed scornfully at her tears. For once
she made no effort to hide her grief. What
need? Had he not long since stripped the
veil from their miserable existance reveal-
ing the hollow shame in all its hideousness?
Neither did she offer any explanation when
he, coarsely and with assumed ignorance,
demanded the cause of her grief; not from
any definite reason but simply from a kind
of instinct that makes the sympathetic,
sensitive nature shrink from unfolding itself
to the touch of one that it feels is neither-
because her inmost being felt that he would
hear it with an antagonism that would jar
every fibre. There are so many ways of
letting the life out of a woman's heart
already faint from disappointment; and
for some moments he tried with a drunken
man's persistence to see how far his taunts
and sneers would exasperate the woman
whom he had promised to love, honor and
cherish; her continued silence only made
him angrier and he became for the time a
maniac. The face he turned round upon
her, the eyes blazing with wrath, the
cheeks pale with passion, the lips set was a
fearful face as he staggered to where his
wife stood; and placing both hands on her
shoulders he shook her roughly as he hissed
into her trembling ear these brutal words-
"You're a nice wife for a man to have!
always going around with a long, white
face to make people think you're an abused
woman. Bah! I tell you what it is Alice,
I'm just about sick of your whining and
crying and don't want any more of it.
Do you hear? I shall stay out just as late
as I want to and just as often; so you may
as well make the best of it. Why, there
were at least sixty men at the club to night; 
most of them married, and do you think
their wives sat up and met them with tears
and long faces? No, by—! and from
now, on, I want no more of it. Remember
that, will you?" And with another final
and emphatic shake he pushed her roughly
from him. Too much intoxicated to fully
realize what he was doing he was not aware
of the brutal force he used and neither of
them observing a footstool that stood near,
Alice fell over it striking her head heavily
against a chair before reaching the floor,
murmuring faintly, "Oh Charlie how could
you, when I loved you so?" She sank in-
to unconciousness. They were the last
words she ever spoke. For days she re-
mained unconscious and then the end came.
Never shall I forget the expression of
peaceful content that settled on the beauti-
ful face. Surely she had found rest and
the peace that passeth all understanding.
Of course, Charlie was very penitent and
apparently remorse—stricken for a time;
but yesterday I read in an eastern paper
that Charlie M. or as he was more familiar-
ly known ‘‘Bonnie Prince Charlie” was
about to lead to the Altar the beautiful
daughter of one of New York's richest
men. I wonder if Alice knows—or cares.
	S.E. L.


THE Isle of Man legislature has just en-
acted that duly qualified women shall, in
future, vote for the election to the House
of Keys, thus following, on more limited
lines, the example of New Zealand.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.	-
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), - Editorial Contributor. 
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. 
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT, 
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. 
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as econd class matter. 
