[Vol44 | February 1957 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: EWdoimtoarnials | Author: Pr]
[EWdoimtoarni'als: AS p h Setreep A side Ramona J uWn.e CNainelnsoenn 110012 Birthday Congratulations to Amy Brown Lyman, Former Relief Society General President]
Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
lyriSS  EMMA  LEAVEN- 
^  ^  W  O  R  T  H,  of  Seattle,  Wash- 
ington, took  up  airplane  flying  at 
the  age  of  fifty-seven.  Now,  at 
seventy-seven,  she  still  flies,  even 
solo.  Among  the  first  civilian  pilots 
to  volunteer  for  civil  defense  at  the 
outbreak  of  World  War  II,  she  is 
still  active  in  the  Civil  Air  Patrol 
and  subject  to  recall  in  an  emer- 
gency. 
lyrRS.  LINNEA  SETTERLIND 
^  ^  MORRISON,  a  young  widow 
with  three  children,  while  working 
for  her  bachelor  of  science  degree  in 
psychiatry  and  education  at  Gusta- 
vus  Adolphus  College,  St.  Peter, 
Minnesota,  became  converted  to  the 
gospel,  along  with  her  children. 
Now  at  Columbia  University,  New 
York,  working  for  a  master's  degree 
in  mental  health  and  psychiatric 
nursing,  she  has  been  awarded  the 
United  States  Public  Health  stipend 
($2,400)  for  advanced  study  in  her 
useful  field. 
TN  Waco,  Texas,  Baylor  University 
recently  honored  Mrs.  Ruth 
Schick  Montgomery— an  alumna  of 
its  journalism  department— as  ''an 
outstanding  champion  of  truth  and 
freedom."  A  correspondent  for  In- 
ternational News  Service  in  Wash- 
ington, D.  C,  she  was  awarded  the 
honorary  degree  of  doctor  of  laws. 
pRINCESS    MARIE    LOUISE, 
eighty-four,  last  surviving  grand- 
daughter of  Queen  Victoria,  died  in 
London  December  7.  The  Royal 
Princess,  democratic  in  manners 
and  adventurous  in  spirit,  traveled 
widely  and  wrote  several  books 
about  her  journeys. 
VARA  NELSOVA,  one  of  the 
world's  greatest  cellists,  was 
guest  soloist  with  the  Utah  Sym- 
phony in  the  Tabernacle  for  the 
world  premiere  of  Dr.  Leroy  Rob- 
ertson's ''Concerto  for  Cello  and 
Orchestra."  The  New  York  Times 
comments  that  she  "can  swarm  all 
over  the  finger  board  without  let- 
ting a  single  note  drop.  Few  of 
her  male  colleagues  can  claim  as 
much." 
jyrRS.  OWEN  (JAMES  H.) 
^  ^  SHERRAT  of  Cedar  City, 
celebrated  the  centennial  of  the 
handcart  pioneers  by  creating  a 
handcart  quilt  with  much  original- 
ity and  artistry.  She  stenciled  six- 
teen blocks  with  textile  paints,  de- 
picting the  activities  of  the  hand- 
cart women:  laundering,  cooking, 
combing  hair,  patching  children's 
threadbare  trousers,  mourning  for 
the  dying,  and,  lastly,  bowing  their 
heads  in  prayerful  thanksgiving  for 
safe  arrival  in  the  Valley.  The 
quilt  took  first  prize  at  the  Iron 
County  Fair  and  also  at  the  Utah 
State  Fair. 
Page  101

EDITORIAL 
VOL  44 
FEBRUARY  1957 
NO.  2 
c/i  Step  J^side 
TN  life,  which  may  become  pre- 
dominated with  numberless  daily 
tasks  and  responsibilities,  discour- 
agement comes  easily;  a  gallant  atti- 
tude may  be  lost  and  goals  not 
realized.  Objective  thinking  is 
oftentimes  absorbed  into  the  whirl- 
pool of  circumstantial  emotional 
thoughts  and,  losing  sight  of  the 
end,  we  may  begin  to  think  that 
the  means  are  all  important.  It  is 
then  that  we  might  step  aside  to 
take  a  different  view. 
In  the  fall  of  the  year,  the  grove 
of  aspen  on  the  mountain  is  a  patch 
of  gold  in  the  brilliant  color  scheme 
of  autumn.  We  view  it  as  a  whole 
unit.  Within  the  grove,  the  trees 
stand  out  singly  each  with  its  own 
characteristics,  and  each  tree,  when 
considered  by  itself,  is  not  perfect. 
We  may  not  think  that  it  contrib- 
utes much  because  of  details  which 
we  would  call  defects.  Neverthe- 
less, with  the  others,  it  produces  a 
patch  of  beauty  on  the  mountains. 
The  opportunity  isn't  ours  to  step 
physically  aside  from  life  to  get  a 
different  view  of  our  own  life  with 
all  the  experiences  blending  togeth- 
er to  make  a  complete  and  beautiful 
pattern.  Each  day  a  new  situation 
arises  in  family  life  which  carries  its 
own  importance.  Sometimes,  neces- 
sary daily  tasks  take  on  so  much 
added  meaning  that  their  accom- 
plishment appears  to  be  an  end  in 
itself.      Our    attitudes    are    so    in- 
Pagc  102 
fluenced  by  these  daily  events  that 
our  values  may  become  changed.  As 
a  result,  many  times  the  ultimate 
end  or  goal  is  lost  from  view. 
However,  we  can  take  that  step 
spiritually  aside  from  life  to  view 
events,  attitudes,  and  other  elements 
in  our  pattern  of  life,  if  we  will.  To 
do  so  we  should  carefully  analyze 
each  element  in  the  pattern  of  our 
life  in  view  of  its  significance  and 
ascertain  its  value  by  the  true  stand- 
ards of  measurements  we  have  — 
those  standards  of  measurements 
which  are  included  in  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ. 
The  step  spiritually  aside  can 
bring  beauty  into  the  pattern  along 
with  an  appreciation  for  those  small 
or  simple  things  which  are  around 
each  day  —  the  sunrise,  the  plant 
life,  the  intricate  structure  of  ob- 
jects, and  myriads  of  other  details. 
In  Gospel  Doctiine  (pp.  358-9)  this 
thought  is  inspirationally  stated: 
We  should  never  be  discouraged  in 
those  daily  tasks  which  God  has  ordained 
to  the  common  lot  of  man.  Each  day's 
labor  should  be  undertaken  in  a  joyous 
spirit  and  with  the  thought  and  convic- 
tion that  our  happiness  and  eternal  wel- 
fare depend  upon  doing  well  that  which 
we  ought  to  do,  that  which  God  has 
made  it  our  duty  to  do.  Many  are  un- 
happy because  they  imagine  that  they 
should  be  doing  something  unusual  or 
something  phenomenal.  Some  people 
would  rather  be  the  blossom  of  a  tree 
and  be  admiringly  seen  than  be  an  cndur-

EDITORIAL 
ing  part  of  the  tree  and  live  the  common- 
place life  of  the  tree's  existence. 
''Let  us  not  be  trying  to  substitute  an 
artificial  life  for  the  true  one.  He  is 
truly  happy  who  can  see  and  appreciate 
the  beauty  with  which  God  has  adorned 
the  commonplace  things  of  life. 
Moments  spent  stepping  aside  in 
103 
spiritual  meditation  can  restore  and 
strengthen  faith,  give  us  new  mean- 
ing in  life,  and  fresh  courage  and 
confidence  to  go  forward,  bringing 
security  and  stability  to  our 
thoughts  and  actions  —  knowing 
that  ''the  threads  of  Hfe  will  run 
appointed  ways."— J.N. 
iuirthdayi  ^congratulations  to  Ji^m^   {Brown  cLyman^ 
QJormer  iKelief  Society  (general  Lrresiaent 
"VU^E  extend  birthday  congratulations  and  best  wishes  this  February  yth, 
to  our  beloved  former  president,  Amy  Brown  Lyman.  Relief  Society 
members  in  the  stakes  and  missions  of  the  Church  are  grateful  for  the 
many  years  of  devoted  service  she  has  given  to  the  work  of  Relief  Society. 
Her  presence  was  appreciated  at  the  recent  annual  general  conference  of 
Relief  Society,  at  the  dedicatory  services  for  the  Relief  Society  Building, 
and  at  the  reception  for  stake  and  mission  officers.  May  she  be  blessed 
in  the  service  she  continues  to  give  as  literature  class  leader  in  her  ward. 
Her  devotion  to  Relief  Society  is  an  example  to  all. 
^Jjawn   Castle 
Eva  WiiJes  Wangsgaard 
Dawn  shone  on  hills  along  the  west 
While  east  was  draped  in  shrouds. 
An  amber  halo  crowned  each  crest 
Beneath  the  smoke-blue  clouds. 
It  thinned  the  sky  to  lucent  green 
And  glowed  with  golden  light, 
As  though  tomorrow  could  be  seen 
While  earth  was  blue  with  night. 
Agleam  with  dawn,  the  flour  mill 
Was  radiant  and  grand, 
A  golden  castle  on  a  hill 
Called  up  from  storyland.

LKecipes  QJrom  the    I  ietherlands    /flission 
Submitted  by  Ada  S.  Van  Dam 
Red  Cabbage 
(Roode  Kool) 
Recipe  given  by  Adriana  Van  der  Waal 
1  medium-sized  head  red  cabbage  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
1  large  sour  apple  water 
!4    c.  uncooked  rice  i   tbsp.  vinegar 
!4   tsp.  cloves 
Prepare  the  cabbage  for  cooking  and  then  wash  and  shred.  Cut  the  apple  into 
slices,  add  the  rice  and  cloves  and  enough  water  to  cover.  Steam  for  about  two  hours. 
Mash  and  add  vinegar  to  restore  color.    Serve  hot. 
Carrot,  Potato,  and  Onion  Stew 
(Hutspot) 
Recipe  given  by  Mevrouw  Kraaij,  cook  at  the  Mission  Home 
3  lbs.  large  winter  carrots  4  lbs.  boiled  potatoes 
2  lbs.  onions  salt  to  taste 
Add  water  to  the  sliced  carrots  and  onions  and  cook  about  two  hours.  Then  add 
the  boiled  potatoes  and  salt.    Mash  and  serve  with  goulash  gravy. 
Goulash  Gravy 
2  lbs.  beef  cubes  !4   lb.  butter  or  margarine 
1   onion  1  bay  leaf 
Brown  the  beef  and  onion.  Add  the  bay  leaf  while  browning  the  beef  and  onion, 
and  then  add  water. 
Thicken  with  flour,  salt,  pepper,  and  water  mixed  to  a  smooth  paste.  Simmer  two 
hours  and  serve  over  the  Hutspot. 
Note:  During  the  Spanish  Inquisition,  the  people  of  the  city  of  Leiden  were 
on  the  verge  of  starvation.  Their  mayor,  Burgcmeister  Adrian  Van  der  Werf,  heroically 
refused  to  let  the  people  surrender.  Just  at  the  point  of  desperation,  the  Dutch  were 
successful  in  breaking  a  dike,  thus  flooding  the  Spanish  soldiers  and  forcing  their 
hasty  retreat.  A  little  Dutch  boy  found  some  of  the  enemy's  camp  fires  still  burning 
on  a  little  hill  where  the  water  had  not  reached.  Hanging  over  the  fires  were  kettles 
of  "Hutspot"  that  the  soldiers  were  cooking  for  their  supper.  It  was  the  first  good 
food  they  had  seen  for  weeks.  On  October  3d,  Hutspot  is  still  eaten  in  Holland,  in 
memory  of  the  brave  people  who  had  fought  in  the  siege  of  Leiden. 
Sauerkraut 
(Zuurkool  Stamppot) 
Recipe  given  by  Marie  Mook 
Use  equal  parts  of  sauerkraut  and  potatoes  boiled  separately.  Mash  potatoes.  Com- 
bine potatoes  and  sauerkraut.  Add  cooked,  sliced  frankfurters.  Season  to  taste  and 
serve  hot. 
Split  Pea  Soup 
(Erwten  Soep) 
Recipe  given  by  Mevrouw  Kraaij 
1  lb.  lean  pork  1  celery  stalk 
1  Wienerwurst  (substitute  frankfurters)  2  potatoes 
1  Yz   lbs.  split  peas  4  qts.  water 
4  leeks  (substitute  onions)  salt  to  taste 
celery  leaves 
Poge  104