[Vol44 | February 1957 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Great]
A mother and her child both receive abundant blessings from this enriching experience of learning to pray together. Great is the woman who has taught a child to rely faithfully on prayer as a source of strength, wisdom, and patience. And great is the child spiritually, who has learned to do so. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF Page 99 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and February 15, 1897 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ALL NATIONS" VIEW IN SWITZERLAND: We ascended the Rigi Kulen where we have a fine view of Eastern and Northern Switzerland. 'The eye sweeps over eleven lakes, plains and streams to the crest of the Jura mountains and over the Burnese Oberland Alps, a circuit of three hundred miles... Shining snow-capped peaks rise one behind another until the last is lost in clouds. —Kim RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN SANPETE STAKE: Counselor Abbie Shoemaker said ""We come together to be fed with the bread of life. Let us be humble and seek for wisdom; if we have the spirit of God with us we will not have malice in our hearts, but will have a sisterly love." Pres't Zina D. H. Young said she was pleased with the exertions of the sisters in getting houses to meet in. Sister Annie Taylor Hyde of Salt Lake said if we would desire a double blessing we should attend our meetings. This Society was organized by the Prophet; we are being blessed as well as blessing, and it makes us better Saints. —Maria Willardson, Stake Sec'y. TO DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP (on her Birthday) The sun sets in the crimson West; And Nature sinks to needed rest; As the floods of glory fill the air, So may thy life be now more fair. Till reaching out where the blue tints meet, May all thy joys be full, complete; — Thy aims, thy hopes, thy fondest dreams, Be glorious, bright, as the sun's last beams. —Lydia D. Alder A MONUMENT FOR HARRIET BEECHER STOWE: The children of Hartiet Beecher Stowe (author of Uncle Tom's Cabin) do not look kindly upon the proposition to erect a public statue of their mother. Her son, Rev. Charles E. Stowe, says it belongs to him and his sisters to erect whatever monument may be placed over their mother's grave. —Woman's Journal THE NEW WOMAN: The new woman we shall consider, though, is not a new woman any more than the sun that shone today is a new sun or the stars that shine tonight are new stars. To one who has only begun to see they might all appear new, but they have ever existed, conforming always to God's immutable laws.... —Miss Elsie Ada Faust From an Address at the Alumni Banquet University of Utah Page 100 Miss EMMA LEAVENW ORTH, of Seattle, Washington, took up airplane flying at the age of fifty-seven. Now, at seventy-seven, she still flies, even solo. Among the first civilian pilots to volunteer for civil defense at the outbreak of World War II, she is still active in the Civil Air Patrol and subject to recall in an emergency. RS. LINNEA SETTERLIND MORRISON, a young widow with three children, while working for her bachelor of science degree in psychiatry and education at Gustavus Adolphus College, St. Peter, Minnesota, became converted to the gospel, along with her children. Now at Columbia University, New York, working for a master's degree in mental health and_ psychiatric nursing, she has been awarded the United States Public Health stipend ($2,400) for advanced study in her useful field. N Waco, Texas, Baylor University recently honored Mrs. Ruth Schick Montgomery—an alumna of its journalism department—as "an outstanding champion of truth and freedom." A correspondent for International News Service in Washington, D. C., she was awarded the honorary degree of doctor of laws. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RINCESS MARIE LOUISE, eighty-four, last surviving granddaughter of Queen Victoria, died in London December 7. 'The Royal Princess, democratic in manners and adventurous in spirit, traveled widely and wrote several books about her journeys. ARA NELSOVA, one of the world's greatest cellists, was guest soloist with the Utah Symphony in the Tabernacle for the world premiere of Dr. Leroy Robertson's "Concerto for Cello and Orchestra." The New York Times comments that she "can swarm all over the finger board without letting a single note drop. Few of her male colleagues can claim as much." MBs. GWEN (JAMES 8H.) SHERRAT of Cedar City, celebrated the centennial of the handcart pioneers by creating a handcart quilt with much originality and artistry. She stenciled sixteen blocks with textile paints, depicting the activities of the handcart women: laundering, cooking, combing hair, patching children's threadbare trousers, mourning for the dying, and, lastly, bowing their heads in prayerful thanksgiving for safe arrival in the Valley. 'The quilt took first prize at the Iron County Fair and also at the Utah State Fair. Page 10] CD EDITORIAL m9 VOL. 


 NO. 2 A Step Aside N life, which may become predominated with numberless daily tasks and responsibilities, discouragement comes easily; a gallant attitude may be lost and goals not realized. Objective thinking is oftentimes absorbed into the whirlpool of circumstantial emotional thoughts and, losing sight of the end, we may begin to think that the means are all important. It ls then that we might step aside to take a different view. In the fall of the year, the grove of aspen on the mountain is a patch of gold in the brilliant color scheme of autumn. We view it as a whole unit. Within the grove, the trees stand out singly each with its own characteristics, and each tree, when considered by itself, is not perfect. We may not think that it contributes much because of details which we would call defects. Nevertheless, with the others, it produces a patch of beauty on the mountains. The opportunity isn't ours to step physically aside from life to get a different view of our own life with all the experiences blending together to make a complete and beautiful pattern. Each day a new situation arises in family life which carries its own importance. Sometimes, necessary daily tasks take on so much added meaning that their accomplishment appears to be an end in itself. Our attitudes are so inPage 102 fluenced by these daily events that our values may become changed. As a result, many times the ultimate end or goal is lost from view. However, we can take that step spiritually aside from life to view events, attitudes, and other elements in our pattern of life, if we will. 'To do so we should carefully analyze each element in the pattern of our life in view of its significance and ascertain its value by the true standards of measurements we have — those standards of measurements which are included in the gospel of Jesus Christ. The step spiritually aside can bring beauty into the pattern along with an appreciation for those small or simple things which are around each day — the sunrise, the plant life, the intricate structure of objects, and myriads of other details. In Gospel Doctrine (pp. 358-9) this thought is inspirationally stated: We should never be discouraged in those daily tasks which God has ordained to the common lot of man. Each day's labor should be undertaken in a joyous spit and with the thought and conviction that our happiness and eternal welfare depend upon doing well that which we ought to do, that which God _ has made it our duty to do. Many are unhappy because they imagine that they should be doing something unusual or something phenomenal. Some people would rather be the blossom of a tree and be admiringly seen than be an endur- EDITORIAL ing part of the tree and live the commonplace life of the tree's existence. "Let us not be trying to substitute an artificial life for the true one.

He ls truly happy who can see and appreciate the beauty with which God has adorned the commonplace things of life. Moments spent stepping aside in 103 spiritual meditation can restore and strengthen faith, give us new meaning in life, and fresh courage and confidence to go forward, bringing security and stability to our thoughts and actions — knowing that "the threads of life will run appointed ways.'—J. N.