[Vol44 | February 1957 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Nibley]
[The Netherlands Mission Preston R. Nibley]

These men should have the faith of the people to sustain them in the discharge of their duties, in order that they may be strong in the Lord. We should not permit ourselves to go about from day to day with a spirit of murmuring and fault-finding in our hearts against those who are presented before us to be sustained in responsible positions. If we have anything in our hearts against any of these brethren, it is our duty, as conscientious members of the Church, first as the Spirit may direct, to go to them alone and make known to them our feeling toward them and show them the cause of such feeling; not with a desire in our hearts to widen or increase the difficulty, but we should go to them in the spirit of reconciliation and brotherly love, in a true Christian spirit, so that if any feeling of bitterness exists within us it may be absolutely removed; and if we have cause against our brother, that we may be in a position to remedy the evil. We should seek to love one another and to sustain one another as children of God and as brothers and sisters in the cause (President Joseph F. Smith, Gospel Doctrine, page 280). HIS great, stalwart leader taught further that it is not our right or prerogative to point out the supposed defects of the leaders in the Church: "Let the Lord God Almighty judge them and speak for or against them as it may seem to him good — but not me; it is not for me, my brethren, to do this " (Ibid., page 223). Another great and important duty resting upon the parents in the Church in regard to sustaining our Church leaders is to teach their children by example as well as by precept to respect those in authority over them. If children hear their parents criticize or speak disparagingly of the bishop of the ward, the president of the stake, or other leaders in the Church, the damage is highly detrimental and may never be erased. We should teach our children to love the Lord and to understand his great love for them; to love their fellow men, and especially to love their fellow members of the Church. We should teach them to honor the Priesthood as the authority that God has bestowed upon the Church for the proper government of the same. We should teach them the importance and the desirability of preparing themselves to become worthy of receiving the Priesthood. Children should be made to realize that to be permitted to sustain those who lead them is not only a rare privilege, but also that it obligates them to pray for their leaders, to uphold them, and to accept opportunities to serve when called by them into ServIce. Now, a word to those who are sustained by the faith and prayers of the members: those who are called to office should realize that one of the greatest assets for leadership is the sustaining influence of those over whom they preside. 'This influence is vital and indispensable to effective leadership. In the words of the Lord, "Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it " (Psalms 127:1), and SUSTAINING THE AUTHORITIES OF THE CHURCH 79 (td. If ye are not one ye are not mine" (D. & C. 38:27). And so, we have to be one; we have to sustain and be sustained if our leadership is to be effective. Those who are called to office and are sustained by the members should enter upon their duties with a full determination to do all in their power to magnify that calling. They should be prompt and zealous. They should strive to become efficient in carrying out the whole program. They must plan, prepare, inspire. They must be examples in living the gospel wherever they may be — not only in meetings but also in private parties, while fishing and hunting, and while traveling. Priesthood and auxiliary leaders and members alike have the responsibility to be true to "... Every word that proceedeth forth from the mouth of God" (D. & C. 84:44). Leaders are thus instructed by the Lord: Wherefore, now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence. He that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand, and he that learns not his duty and shows himself not approved shall not be counted worthy to stand (D. & C. 107:99-100). It is a great blessing to be permitted to sustain those who are called to preside over us. It is a blessing beyond measure to be sustained by the members whom we are called to serve. Eps Mother Dora Toone Brough A hundred times, or more, your deeds of gold Have been expounded by the lips of friends; In humble language they have been retold To sleepy children, as the long day ends; And yet, the simple things I held most dear— Your busy hands, your gentle ways, your smile, The lullabies you sang to quell my fear, Your white lace collar, and your smooth hair style. In silent loveliness your soul met mine; I knew you always wanted me to keep A path to God, a love for the Divine; And when you closed your eyes in long, last sleep, Your gracious, noble life made me content To fashion mine to be your monument. Second Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Mother's Shoes Edith Larson HAT a picture Mother and \\y Dad made, framed by the new window, their faces alight with expectation! 'The ready laughter wrinkles were deeper than ever on Dad's face and the little lines of worry were gone from Mother's. She has accepted my _ ultimatum, Dorothy thought happily, as she drove on past the window. I knew that if I left them alone, Dad would persuade Mother that I am right. It's ridiculous for her to think she needs to help me put on their golden wedding anniversary. Dorothy stopped the car and turned to the first early wedding guests she had picked up at the train. But Mother and Dad were there already, eagerly pulling the doors open to welcome Aunt Mable and Uncle Arthur with their daughter Gertie. Dorothy waited only for the first greetings, then slipped away to the kitchen. 'The roast would be ready for the potatoes, onions, and carrots she had left standing in cold water. She hummed as her hands flew at their tasks. "The kitchen looks different," a pleasant voice spoke from the doorway. Dorothy looked up at her cousin Gertie—a_ stranger, really, since Dad's oldest sister had never been Page 80 be 2 a — EDITH LARSON back after moving to New York twenty years ago. "Mother had the whole house done over in honor of the golden wedding. You can't imagine what this anniversary means to her. She hasn't thought of much else for the past five years." Gertie smiled. "I'm sure I'll feel the same way when I reach the fifty-year mark. But I wasn't referring to the house, although it does look very nice. I was just thinking of the kitchen the way I remembered it, with Aunt Sarah bustling around, shooing us children out from under her feet." MOTHER'S SHOES "She'd still be doing it if I'd let her. I've had quite a time persuading her to sit in the ving room and be a lady of leisure." "That role does seem a little out of character for Aunt Sarah." "So she says. But, Gertie, think of all the years she has worked so hard. Not just her own work, but Relief Society and Sunday School and every other job that anyone wanted done. Mother deserves a big celebration without any responsibility at all." "Someone has to take the responsibility." "I am. I've been here three weeks already. Of course, the plans are all Mother's — except for some little surprises along the way. I want everything to be exactly as she has dreamed it." "What does Harvey say to all this?" "He doesn't like my being gone so long, of course, but he understands. Having the family so scattered means lots of house guests, besides the celebration itself. And the boys' wives all have small children — those who live here in town. Harvey can see where Mother needs me. He'll be up with our boys day after tomorrow to stay till it's over." "If there is anything I can do to help." "There'll be lots of things. I thought we younger women could get the meals and keep the work done up and let the brothers and sisters have a real visit. You'll find the makings of a green salad in the frig, if you want to put them together now." "And here I had my mouth all watered for some of Aunt Sarah's 81 cooking. I've never forgotten it." But Gertie was smiling as she opened the frig. "I've sworn to keep Mother out of the kitchen, but I don't know. " Dorothy broke off with a shrug. Flick of Gertie's head made her turn. Sarah stood in the doorway, an anxious frown on her face. "Dorothy," she asked, "did you remember to order the cake?" "Of course, Mother," Dorothy said, irritation overriding her normal tact. "I ordered the cake, checked on the photographer, and borrowed the punch bowl, and I know that was all you put on my list this morning." Sarah bit her lips. "I'm sorry. You didn't tell me," she said and turned away. Dorothy shook her head wryly as she watched her mother's retreating figure. "How do you cure 'em?'" she asked Gertie. "You'd think I was an irresponsible teenager." "You don't. You just try." The cousins worked amicably and rapidly, the ready-made subject of how to deal with parents bridging the gap of long separation. In a very short time, Dorothy returned to the living room to announce dinnet. Mother looked up at her with a warm smile. "I can't get over it," she said. "Me sitting here with my hands folded and meals going on just the same. I was just telling Mable that you won't let me do a thing — not a single thing.