[Vol44 | February 1957 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Lesson | Title: Winter | Author: Hill]
[Winter Notwithstanding Lael W. Hill]
Recipe  given  by  Mevrouw  Kraaij,  cook  at  the  Mission  Home 
3  lbs.  large  winter  carrots  4  lbs.  boiled  potatoes 
2  lbs.  onions  salt  to  taste 
Add  water  to  the  sliced  carrots  and  onions  and  cook  about  two  hours.  Then  add 
the  boiled  potatoes  and  salt.    Mash  and  serve  with  goulash  gravy. 
Goulash  Gravy 
2  lbs.  beef  cubes  !4   lb.  butter  or  margarine 
1   onion  1  bay  leaf 
Brown  the  beef  and  onion.  Add  the  bay  leaf  while  browning  the  beef  and  onion, 
and  then  add  water. 
Thicken  with  flour,  salt,  pepper,  and  water  mixed  to  a  smooth  paste.  Simmer  two 
hours  and  serve  over  the  Hutspot. 
Note:  During  the  Spanish  Inquisition,  the  people  of  the  city  of  Leiden  were 
on  the  verge  of  starvation.  Their  mayor,  Burgcmeister  Adrian  Van  der  Werf,  heroically 
refused  to  let  the  people  surrender.  Just  at  the  point  of  desperation,  the  Dutch  were 
successful  in  breaking  a  dike,  thus  flooding  the  Spanish  soldiers  and  forcing  their 
hasty  retreat.  A  little  Dutch  boy  found  some  of  the  enemy's  camp  fires  still  burning 
on  a  little  hill  where  the  water  had  not  reached.  Hanging  over  the  fires  were  kettles 
of  "Hutspot"  that  the  soldiers  were  cooking  for  their  supper.  It  was  the  first  good 
food  they  had  seen  for  weeks.  On  October  3d,  Hutspot  is  still  eaten  in  Holland,  in 
memory  of  the  brave  people  who  had  fought  in  the  siege  of  Leiden. 
Sauerkraut 
(Zuurkool  Stamppot) 
Recipe  given  by  Marie  Mook 
Use  equal  parts  of  sauerkraut  and  potatoes  boiled  separately.  Mash  potatoes.  Com- 
bine potatoes  and  sauerkraut.  Add  cooked,  sliced  frankfurters.  Season  to  taste  and 
serve  hot. 
Split  Pea  Soup 
(Erwten  Soep) 
Recipe  given  by  Mevrouw  Kraaij 
1  lb.  lean  pork  1  celery  stalk 
1  Wienerwurst  (substitute  frankfurters)  2  potatoes 
1  Yz   lbs.  split  peas  4  qts.  water 
4  leeks  (substitute  onions)  salt  to  taste 
celery  leaves 
Poge  104
