[Vol44 | February 1957 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Lesson | Title: When | Author: Atkinson]
[When Portals Close Mabel Law Atkinson]

Water 4 leeks (substitute onions) I salt to taste celery leaves Page 104 RECIPES FROM THE NETHERLANDS MISSION 105 Pick over peas and wash. Add them to the water and soak for several hours. To this add the finely cut vegetables and cook. When the peas and vegetables are nearly tender, add the pork, and continue cooking. Simmer the wienerwurst separately for about ten minutes, then slice in small pieces and add to soup. Simmer soup for another fifteen minutes and serve hot.: Rice WiTH Curry SAuce (Rijst met Kerry Saus) Recipe by Mevrouw Kraaij Curry Sauce: 2 tbsp. Butter 4 bouillon cubes " onion 1 gt. Boiling water 1 tsp. Curry powder 144 tbsp. Flour Dissolve bouillon cubes in boiling water. Mix gradually and combine the flour with the broth. Brown the diced onion in butter and add to the broth; add curry powder. Meat balls, seasoned and cooked separately, may be added to the sauce. Simmer for one half hour. Serve over steamed rice. The following three recipes are served during the Christmas and New Year holidays in the Netherlands. Fruit-FILLED PuncH BowL Strawberry or raspberry punch 2 cans tangerines base diluted with water, 7-Up banana slices or Sparkling Water orange slices 2 cans strawberries diced apples 2 cans raspberries chopped nuts, optional 2 cans cherries, pitted Add the fruit to the punch base and sparkling water. Serve cold in punch glasses. OLIEBOLLEN Recipe given by Mevrouw Kraaij 2 c. Flour 72 ¢. Currants and raisins 4 tsp. Baking powder ¥% c. Diced glazed fruit "2 tsp. Salt 1 medium-sized sour apple, diced 1 c. Milk salad oil for deep fat frying Sift together the flour, baking powder, and salt. 'Then add the milk, apple, currants, raisins, and fruit, and mix together, forming a soft dough. Using two teaspoons, drop small amounts of dough into hot oil. Cook until the balls become golden brown. Drain on unglazed paper. Sprinkle balls with powdered sugar. APPLE RINGS (Appelbiegnets ) Recipe given by Mevrouw Kraaij 1 c. Flour, 1 scant c. Milk 1 tsp. Baking powder 6 sour apples % tsp. Salt salad oil Sift together the flour, baking powder, and salt. Then add the milk, making a batter in which to dip the slices of apples. Each apple, uncored, should be sliced into about six slices. Cook the apple slices in the hot oil until the apple rings are golden brown. Drain on unglazed paper. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve while warm. A Flag for Utah Statehood Margaret G, Derrick probably never heard this little bit of history of the time when Utah became a state. I was then twenty years of age and took a small part in the making of this historical event. The people of Utah had waited long and patiently to enter the Union. At last the time had arrived. On January 4th, 1896, Utah was to become a state. 'There was a great deal of excitement in the anticipation of this event. Everyone seemed busy making ready for the big celebration that was to take place in the famous Tabernacle in Salt Lake City on Temple Square. People traveled many days from all parts of Utah to attend. Some M pret people now living have came in surreys; some came in wagon boxes; some came on hayracks partly filled with hay to feed their horses. They parked their teams back of what was then the tithing office, which stood where the Hotel Utah now stands. Committees were appointed to prepare for this long-awaited event. One committee was headed by Hytum B. Clawson, a bishop of one of the wards. He said, "We will make an American flag, so the people of Utah will see for the first time the forty-fifth star, the Utah star, placed on the blue ground of our beloved American flag." This flag was marked and cut out by my brother, David Glade, and was to be made on the high-powered machines in the Z. C. M. I. Cloth- I ing Factory. The flag was to be Page 106 150 feet long and seventy-five feet wide. 'The stripes were to be six feet in width, the stars, six feet from tip to tip. These dimensions were handed me by my brother on a little card that is now yellow with age. Six women were asked to make this flag. I was the youngest of the group. 'The other five were considerably older than I. The flag was made of good bunting and every seam was felled to give it strength. Placing the stars on the blue ground was the hardest and the most tedious part of the work. 'The blue ground was cut in blocks. Each block was large enough to contain a star; then the blocks were joined together. By this method we were able to do a better job of placing the stars in straight rows. It took one week for us, working eight to ten hours a day, to make the flag. When it was finished, it took eight strong men to lift it. We who worked on the flag were not told where it was to be placed. We knew it could not be placed on a flag pole. We were soon to find out that it was to be placed in the Tabernacle to form a ceiling. The blue ground was placed near the large organ, that is, in the northwest part of the 'Tabernacle. 'There were nine feet of space between the dome of the 'Tabernacle and the flag. When the air circulated through this space it caused the flag to ripple across the ceiling. What a beautiful sight! ON the momentous day, I watched the flag as it rippled across the ceiling and tears filled my eyes and a A FLAG FOR UTAH STATEHOOD lump came into my throat. I felt this flag was saying, "Proudly I wave over you, home of the brave and land of the free." Utah was certainly a home of brave pioneers who had suffered and come here to have freedom to worship.