[Vol44 | February 1957 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Lesson | Title: Heritage | Author: Clark]
Heritage Leslie Savage Clark These are our common heritage— The scarlet autumn, spring; No man can fence bright April in, Nor cage the migrant wing. And hearts, alike, have common dower Of laughter, tears, and pain, The same deep need to share love's sun And pity's gentle rain. May God, in mercy, make us wise So, working hand in hand, We build a greater brotherhood In this beloved land. Page 87 She lletherlands Mission Preston R. Nibley HE first missionary to carry the gospel to the Netherlands was Elder Orson Hyde, a member of the original Council of the Twelve, who visited Rotterdam in June 1841, while on his way to Palestine to dedicate that land for the return of the Jews. In Rotterdam he became acquainted with a Jewish Rabbi, "to whom he explained the object of his intended trip to the Holy Land, and also testified of the restored gospel." I'wenty years were to pass before other missionaries of the Church visited the Netherlands. At the annual conference of the Church, held in Salt Lake City in April 1861, two Elders, Paul Augustus Schettler and A. Wiegers van der Woude, were called to serve as missionaries in Holland. They arrived in Rotterdam in August 1861, and after spending a few days in that city proceeded on to Amsterdam, where they began their labors. Shortly afterwards Elder van der Woude traveled to Friesland to Photograph by Rinze Schippers Submitted by Ada S. Van Dam THE OLD GATEWAY (DELFTSEPOORT), DELFT, HOLLAND Page 88 THE NETHERLANDS MISSION 89 Photograph submitted by Ada S. Van Dam RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS IN VLAARDINGEN, THE NETHERLANDS Left to right: Ogtavie G. A. Van Wijnen and daughter Gabrielle; Marrigje A. Van Rosmalen and daughter Olga Maria. These two sisters take their children to kindergarten and then do their visiting teaching, traveling on bicycles. Visit relatives and, on October 1, 1861, he baptized three persons, two of whom were relatives, in the town of Broek, near Akkerwoude. 'These were the first baptisms in the Netherlands Mission. On December 23, 1861, Elder Schettler baptized three persons in Amsterdam; other conversions followed, and early in 1862 a branch of the Church was organized in that city. From 1861 to 1864 the Netherlands Mission was part of the Swiss and German Mission, but in the latter year a separate mission was formed. Belgium was later added to the Netherlands Mission, but it was transferred to the French Mission in 1923. The Book of Mormon was translated into the Dutch language in 1890, by Elder John W. F. Volker of Ogden. In 1896 a periodical was begun by the Church in Holland, entitled, De Ster, which has continued to the present time. There are now 3,254 members of the Church in the Netherlands Mission, located in twenty-six branches. 'The president of the Mission is Filder Rulon J. Sperry of Salt Lake City. Twenty-two Relief Society organizations were reported in December 1955, with 279 members. Lucy Emma G. Sperry presides over the Netherlands Mission Relief Society. Note: 'The cover of this Magazine is a view of a Grain Grinding Mill in Leiden, Holland. See also "Recipes From the Netherlands Mission," page 104. Values Derived From Reading Worthwhile Literature Thomas C. Romney Do not read good books—life is too short for that. Only read the best-——Dimnet EVER before, perhaps, was there a greater need for emphasis upon the importance of having high class literature put into the hands of the children and young people than there is at the present time. Never have evildesigning individuals been more determined to foist upon the public their nefarious wares such as immoral literature, indecent films, and glaring tales of robberies and other crimes than now. Reports from juvenile court records throughout the land reveal the deplorable fact that juvenile delinquency is rapidly on the increase, manifesting itself in an ever-increasing number of homicides, thefts, and other infractions of the moral code. The chief responsibility for the prevention and correction of these evils must be placed upon the parents in the home. They, in the very nature of things, are the logical and inescapable guardians of their children. The family is the oldest and most fundamental of all social institutions, and here is laid the cultural, moral, and religious pattern in the child's life that will largely determine his future success or failure. There are no influences in the home so potent in the formation of the character of the child as the Page 90 example and the verbal teachings of its parents; but second only to these is, perhaps, the literature with which the child comes in contact through different media, such as retold stories, comic books, magazines, television, and radio. Of such grave import in the life and character of the child are these influences that the late President Joseph F. Smith was led to say: Books constitute a sort of companionship to everyone who reads, and they create within the heart feelings either for good or for bad. It sometimes happens that parents are very careful about the company which their children keep and are very indifferent about the books they read. In the end the reading of a bad book will bring about evil associates. It is not only the boy who reads this strange, weird and unnaturally exciting literature who is affected by its influence, but in time he influences others. This literature becomes the mother of all sorts of evil suggestions that ripen into evil practices and bring about an unnatural and debased feeling which is ever crowding out the good in the human heart and giving place to the bad.... Let the Saints beware of the books that enter their homes, for their influences may be as poisonous and deadly as the adder... (Gospel Doctrine, pp. 324-325, 1952 Edition). In like strain, President David O.