[Vol44 | February 1957 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Notes | Author: Congratulati]
[Notes FrNoem w tSheer i aFli el d":T h e R eBlrieifg h t S oSctiaerty" t oA c tBievigtiine s i n March 111067 Birthday Congratulations]
notes, however  ingeniously  executed,  do 
no  harm  if  they  remain  in  the  hands  of 
the  original  forger.  It  is  by  their  circula- 
tion that  the  people  suffer.  Somebody 
once  said  to  a  sage:  "A  man  slandered  you 
in  my  presence."  "If,"  replied  the  wise 
man,  "you  had  not  listened  with  pleasure, 
he  would  not  have  defamed  me." 
During  the  late  summer  of  1842 
the  Prophet  was  forced  into  hiding 
to  protect  himself  against  the  vi- 
cious attempts  of  his  enemies  to  take 
him  into  custody.  Much  of  the 
impetus  to  do  these  acts  came  from 
the  false  stories  that  were  spread 
concerning  the  Prophet.  He  re- 
turned to  his  home  the  latter  part 
of  August  1842,  and  August  31,  he 
met  with  the  Relief  Society  and 
made  this  statement: 
When  I  do  the  best  I  can  —  when  I 
am  accomplishing  the  greatest  good,  then 
the  most  evils  and  wicked  surmisings  are 
got  up  against  me.  I  would  to  God  that 
you  would  be  wise.  I  now  counsel  you, 
that  if  you  know  anything  calculated  to 
disturb  the  peace  or  injure  the  feelings  of 
your  brother  or  sister,  hold  your  tongues, 
and  the  least  harm  will  be  done  (D.  H.  C. 
V,  page  140). 
He  suggested  there  were  affirma- 
tive blessings  from  carefully  watch- 
ing what  we  say.  ''No  organized 
body  can  exist,"  he  said,  unless  the 
members  thereof  "  .  .  .  put  a  double 
watch  over  the  tongue  .  .  .  /'  (Em- 
phasis added.) 
All  organized  bodies  have  their  peculiar 
evils,  weaknesses  and  difficulties,  the  ob- 
ject is  to  make  those  not  so  good  reform 
and  return  to  the  path  of  virtue  that  they 
may  be  numbered  with  the  good,  and 
even  hold  the  keys  of  power,  which  'will 
influence  to  virtue  and  goodness  — 
should  chasten  and  reprove,  and  keep  it 
all  in  silence,  not  even  mention  them 
again;  then  you  will  be  established  in 
power,  virtue,  and  holiness,  and  the  wrath 
of  God  will  be  turned  away  (Jbfd.,  V, 
page  20). 
Overzealoiisness 
It  is  well  to  underlay  our  enthus- 
iasm in  the  gospel  with  cautious  re- 
straint. At  one  meeting  the  Proph- 
et commended  the  women  '\  .  .  for

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
71 
their  zeal,  but  said  sometimes  their 
zeal  was  not  according  to  knowl- 
edge" {Ihid.,  IV,  page  570). 
On  another  occasion,  the  Prophet 
warned: 
There  is  another  error  which  opens  a 
door  for  the  adversary  to  enter.  As  females 
possess  refined  feehngs  and  sensitiveness, 
they  are  also  subjeet  to  overmueh  zeal, 
which  must  ever  prove  dangerous,  and 
cause  them  to  be  rigid  in  a  religious  ca- 
pacity —  [they]  should  be  armed  with 
mercy,  notwithstanding  the  iniquity  among 
us  ...  .  Notwithstanding  the  unworthy 
are  among  us,  the  virtuous  should  not, 
from  self  importance,  grieve  and  oppress 
needlessly,  those  unfortunate  ones  {Ihid., 
V,  page  19,  20). 
The  overzealous  can  discourage 
others,  become  fanatical,  act  un- 
seemly, and  go  beyond  their  proper 
bounds. 
Peiiection  Lies  Within 
If  we  are  to  become  perfect,  we 
must  look  at  ourselves  without  de- 
lay, with  a  keen  eye  to  our  limita- 
tions and  shortcomings.  Once  recog- 
nized, our  weaknesses  become  out
