[Vol44 | February 1957 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
Sixty    years  Ji^go 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  February  i,  and  February  15,  1897 
'Tor  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
VIEW  IN  SWITZERLAND:  We  ascended  the  Rigi  Kulen  where  we  have  a 
fine  \'iew  of  Eastern  and  Northern  Switzerland.  The  eye  sweeps  over  eleven  lakes, 
plains  and  streams  to  the  crest  of  the  Jura  mountains  and  over  the  Burnese  Obcrland 
Alps,  a  circuit  of  three  hundred  miles  .  .  .  shining  snow-capped  peaks  rise  one  behind 
another  until  the  last  is  lost  in  clouds. 
—Kim 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONFERENCE  IN  SANPETE  STAKE:  Counselor  Abbie 
Shoemaker  said  '*We  come  together  to  be  fed  with  the  bread  of  life.  Let  us  be 
humble  and  seek  for  wisdom;  if  we  have  the  spirit  of  God  with  us  we  will  not  have 
malice  in  our  hearts,  but  will  have  a  sisterly  love."  .  .  .  Pres't  Zina  D.  H.  Young  said 
she  was  pleased  with  the  exertions  of  the  sisters  in  getting  houses  to  meet  in.  .  .  . 
Sister  Annie  Taylor  Hyde  of  Salt  Lake  said  if  we  would  desire  a  double  blessing  we 
should  attend  our  meetings.  This  Society  was  organized  by  the  Prophet;  we  are  being 
blessed  as  well  as  blessing,  and  it  makes  us  better  Saints.  .  .  . 
— Maria  Willardson,  Stake  Secy. 
TO  DR.  ELLIS  R.  SHIP? 
(on  her  Birthday) 
The  sun  sets  in  the  crimson  West; 
And  Nature  sinks  to  needed  rest; 
As  the  floods  of  glory  fill  the  air, 
So  may  thy  life  be  now  more  fair. 
Till  reaching  out  where  the  blue  tints  meet. 
May  all  thy  joys  be  full,  complete;  — 
Thy  aims,  thy  hopes,  thy  fondest  dreams, 
Be  glorious,  bright,  as  the  sun's  last  beams. 
— Lydia  D.  Alder 
A  MONUMENT  FOR  HARRIET  BEECHER  STOWE:  The  children  of  Har- 
riet Beecher  Stowe  (author  of  \Jude  Tom's  Cabin)  do  not  look  kindly  upon  the 
proposition  to  erect  a  public  statue  of  their  mother.  Her  son,  Rev.  Charles  E.  Stowe, 
says  it  belongs  to  him  and  his  sisters  to  erect  whatever  monument  may  be  placed 
over  their  mother's  grave.  .  .  . 
— Woman's  Journal 
THE  NEW  WOMAN:  The  new  woman  we  shall  consider,  though,  is  not  a 
new  woman  any  more  than  the  sun  that  shone  today  is  a  new  sun  or  the  stars  that 
shine  tonight  are  new  stars.  To  one  who  has  only  begun  to  see  they  might  all  appear 
new,  but  they  have  ever  existed,  conforming  always  to  God's  immutable  laws.  .  .  . 
— Miss  Elsie  Ada  Faust 
From  an  Address  at  the  Alumni  Banquet 
University   of   Utah 
Page  100