[Vol44 | February 1957 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Lesson | Title: Star | Author: Lukei]
Star Dust Vesta N. Lukei If I could remember the earth is a star Whirling through celestial space, Then I might have more tolerance Of dust on a small son's happy face. of iterature— Shakespeare in Our Lives Lesson 8—Julius Caesar Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Text: Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, by G. B. Harrison, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948) For Tuesday, May 21, 1957 Objective: To realize that idealistic men of good will may destroy themselves in bold but imprudent attempts to destroy the evils they feel exist. Men at some time are masters of their fates. The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, But in ourselves, that we are underlings. I. 2. 139-141 Since Cassius first did whet me against Caesar I have not slept. Between the acting of a dreadful thing And the first motion, all the interim is Like a phantasma or a hideous dream. The Genius and the mortal instruments Are then in council, and the state of man, Like to a little kingdom, suffers then The nature of an insurrection. II.1. 61-69 Become what thou art. —Pindar INCE, Julius Caesar is prefaced in our text by generous excerpts from Plutarch's Lives of Brutus, Antonius, and Caesar, the very material out of which Shakespeare composed his play, you may wish to see for yourself how faithfully greatness followed greatness. Plutarch is our greatest Greek biographer; and you may marvel how Shakespeare's art bestows immediacy and dramatic intensity to Plutarch's facts. Other than Shakespeare's addition of Caesar's murderers washing their hands and arms in his blood, Shakespeare adds very little factual incident to Plutarch's original. But what he does add is the fruit of an ordered, perceptive, Page 132 warming imagination, which so clearly reveals the difference between factual history and factual art. Each is valid in its own right. Shakespeare proves convincingly that the facts of art are not merely the facts of history warmed over. Although Caesar himself speaks less than two hundred lines in the play, it is justly named. His presence pervades almost every action or thought in it, first in the lusts and ideals of those who conspire to destroy him; later in the minds of those who honor his departed greatness, and, finally, in the frustrated quarrellings of Brutus and Cassius who offer sharp contrast to the stable state they have just destroyed, LESSON DEPARTMENT as well as to the ideal Rome Brutus had hoped for, but was never to realize. Julius Caesar a Bridge Although the play is known to have been written in 1599, placing it in time alone leaves other problems unsolved. Is it a history comparable to the nine historical plays Shakespeare had written preceding it? No; at least it is not an _historical play only, since in Julius Caesar, Shakespeare is far more interested in the inward struggle within the characters and among them, than in outward events. If it is to be a tragedy, obviously it differs vastly from Romeo and _ Juliet, which is hardly true tragedy at all; neither does it contain the creative moral power of Hamlet or King Lear. Yet Brutus through his blindness, his confused idealism, and his growing assurance that he is always right, destroys himself in a manner not unrelated to tragedy. Predominantly, then, the play marks transition within both Shakespeare the sayer and Shakespeare the knower. Style While the overall structure of the play is loose and episodic, the style and tone are uniformly brilliant, even brittle. Often the language is clipped and sparse, almost journalistic in its effective condensation of truth into well-chosen lines and sentences. It has the simplicity and clarity which must account, in large measure, for its appeal to millions of people, an appeal which has never diminished from its first presentation. Perhaps Shakespeare's diction is so bare because he wanted to 133 catch the stern strength of republican Rome at her best. 'There is little poetry in the play, and, when we do find eloquence, it reminds us more of the professional debater or public-eye orator than of the poet. Again, the scarcity of poetry might be explained by the absence of many ideas in the play; predominantly it is concerned with political events and relationships. Yet the play's action is based on certain basic truths implied, rather than stated; namely, lust for personal power corrupts; good men may be blinded by flattery and cunning liars; it is evil to be so entranced with the dream of the ideal state that hasty, violent destruction of the present one seems justified. From one point of view Julius Caesar is a series of speeches which might be delivered from a platform. Throughout the play occur many thetorical questions, which always assume an audience: Wherefore rejoice? What conquest brings he home? What tributaries follow him to Rome, To grace in captive bonds his chariot wheels?... And do you now put on your best attire? I. 1. 37-39, 53 Did this in Caesar seem ambitious?... You will compel me then to read the will?... Shall I descend? And will you give me leave? IIT. 2. 95, 161, 164 Note also how many long passages of monosyllables occur throughout the play, not only in Antony's great oration. By such a device the speaker convinces his audience he is speaking simply, directly, entirely free from flowery artificiality: 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 And when the fit was on him, I did mark How he did shake. "Tis true, this god did shake. I. 2. 120-121 What's to do? A piece of work that will make sick men whole. But are not some whole that we must make sick? II. 1. 326-328 "Tis good you know not that you are his heirs, For if you should, oh, what would come of it! Ill. 2. 150-151 The Fundamental Idea of the Play As seen centered in the mind of Brutus, the resolution of the plot is ambiguous, and at war with itself. Noble Brutus has been convinced that, in order to preserve the glorious Roman State, Caesar must be destroyed. Brutus believes that the glory that was Rome's will no longer be glorious if deaf, superstitious, crotchety, petty, tyrannical Caesar is to serve as its symbol. To the end Brutus has righteous goals. As his enemy Antony said at the very end of the play, "This was the noblest Roman of them all. Nature might stand up and say to all the world, "This was a man'"' (V. 5. 68, 74-75). But Brutus becomes so aware that he is virtuous and noble, that his awareness comes to obscure his real self. Increasingly he acts out a part, he becomes self-righteous until he becomes infected with the very disease he had hoped to stamp out by murdering Caesar. Predominantly the play is one of destruction. Rome is destroyed, gentle Brutus is destroyed, companionship and trust are destroyed among husbands and wives and all mankind. The play is one of bitterness and pain. We are not soothed by so gross a waste, so consuming a confession of motives and distrusts. The play is loaded with omens, warnings, dreams, and portents, as if, suddenly, Shakespeare comes to believe that man's bewilderment here below may be, in large measure, avoided if he will listen to larger, deeper revelations of truth than his reason and senses alone can offer. "Beware the ides of March" is common to every schoolboy. Troubled Caesar paces at night, knowing that: Thrice hath Calpurnia in her sleep cried out, "Help, ho! They murder Caesar!"... II. 2. 2-3 Awakened, the troubled wife recounts evidence to her husband: A lioness hath whelped in the streets. And graves have yawned and yielded up their dead. Horses did neigh and dying men did groan, And ghosts did shriek and squeal about the streets. O Caesar! These things are beyond all use, And I do fear them. II. 2. 17-19, 23-26 Just before Caesar is murdered by the mob, the poet Cinna dreams that he feasts with Caesar. Most horrible is the appearance of Caesar's ghost to Brutus, first in his tent, then on the plains of Philippi just before his death. Tempting as it may be to consider all such as indication of a determined universe in which man cannot escape his destiny, we must not forget that: The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, But in ourselves, that we are underlings. I. 2. 140-141 LESSON DEPARTMENT Plot Julius Caesar has returned to Rome in the year 44 B. C. Backed by the power of his legions, he effects many reforms in the government, then is offered a crown which he refuses reluctantly. His old schoolmate Cassius fears that Caesar may become dictator; even more strong is Cassius' jealousy. He engineers a plot to kill Caesar for the protection of the State, and enlists Brutus, who reluctantly agrees to lead the plot, thus giving it the prestige it needs. 'Though Caesar is warned by his wife and others not to go to the Senate, he goes, partly because he has been led to believe he will be offered a crown. 'The conspirators gather around him and stab him, Brutus last. Against the advice of his fellows, Brutus permits Caesar's friend Antony to give a funeral oration over Caesar's body, thinking that if he himself speaks first, the populace will understand and approve the motives of the murderers. But Antony so skillfully inflames the citizens that riots break forth; and Brutus and the others flee for their lives. Brutus and Cassius join forces in Asia Minor, and prepare to meet the attack of forces led by Antony, Octavius, and Lepidus. When Brutus accuses Cassius of accepting bribes, they quarrel bitterly, a mood resulting in part from Brutus' recent knowledge that his noble wife Portia has just committed suicide by swallowing hot coals. Brutus and Cassius are reconciled and prepare for battle, but both feel their death is certain. Mistaking the Shouts of joy of his own men for the cries of the enemy, Cassius 135 almost eagerly falls on his sword. Caesar's ghost appears again to Brutus, his men are cut off, and Brutus, too, falls on his sword, saying: Caesar, now be still. I killed not thee with half so good a will. V. 5. 50-51 Famous Quotations Though Caesar is old and in part corrupt, he is still the courageous soldier. When Calpurnia pleads with him to stay home and avoid death, he says: Cowards die many times before their deaths, The valiant never taste of death but once. Of all the wonders that I yet have heard, It seems to me most strange that men should fear, Seeing that death, a necessary end, Will come when it will come. II. 2. 32-37 And Brutus reminds Cassius that action postponed is less than useless: There is a tide in the affairs of men Which taken at the flood leads on to fortune; Omitted, all the voyage of their life Is bound in shallows and in miseries. On such a full sea are we now afloat, And we must take the current when it Serves, Or lose our ventures. IV. 3. 218-24 The greatest lines in the play are contained in Antony's funeral oration in Act III, Scene 2. These lines deserve to be read to the class as fully as time permits. After Brutus' speech, couched in balanced sentences, flowery words, but so halting and hollow as to betray to the Roman citizenry how little of his 136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 heart is in the assassination of Caesar, Antony's biting words take on even sharper edge. Note the crescendo of irony which he builds into his phrase, "For Brutus is an honorable man," and how carefully he teases, hints, implies, until the good Romans feel they have been robbed of their rightful, noble leader: The noble Brutus Hath told you Caesar was ambitious. If it were so, it was a grievous fault, And greviously hath Caesar answered it. Here, under leave of Brutus and the rest— For Brutus is an honorable man, So are they all, all honorable men— Come I to speak in Caesar's funeral. He was my friend, faithful and just to me. But Brutus says he was ambitious, And Brutus is an honorable man. He hath brought many captives home to Rome, Whose ransoms did the general coffers fill. Did this in Caesar seem ambitious? When that the poor have cried, Caesar hath wept— Ambition should be made of sterner stuff. Yet Brutus says he was ambitious, And Brutus is an honorable man. You all did see that on the Lupercal I thrice presented him a kingly crown, Which he did thrice refuse. Was this ambition? Yet Brutus says he was ambitious, And, sure, he is an honorable man. I speak not to disprove what Brutus spoke, But here I am to speak what I do know. You all did love him once, not without cause. What cause witholds you then to mourn for him? O judgment, thou art fled to brutish beasts, And men have lost their reason! Bear with me, My heart is in the coffin there with Caesar, And I must pause till it come back to me. III. 2. 82-112 Against such telling knife-thrusts into the Romans' memories and emotions, poor, confused Brutus is helpless. And when, inciting the crowd to force him to read Caesat's will, Antony begins: If you have tears, prepare to shed them now. IIT. 2. 173 He fulfills his own vow made over Caesar's body preceding the funeral when he said: Woe to the hand that shed this costly blood! Over thy wounds now do I prophesy, Which like dumb mouths do ope their tuby lips To beg the voice and utterance of my tongue. IIT. 1. 258-261 Anthony is obviously the hero, Brutus the victim both of himself and of others, while the villain's role has been pre-cut for Cassius. It is he who is the dedicated. With cold precision he invades the soul of Brutus; it is he who exploits Brutus' sense of destiny until Brutus agrees to lead the group against usurping Caesar. In the most vigorous scene in the play—the quarrel between Cassius and Brutus in Brutus' tent—Cassius is fiery and sharp, but it is the unstrung Brutus who mo

st fully loses control of his temper. Both Portia and Calpurnia have roles of great importance, even though they are not long on the stage. Brutus speaks no line more sincerely than his prayer: O ye gods, Render me worthy of this noble wife! ITI. 1. 303-304 With complete justice she refers to herself as "yourself, your half," (II. 1. 274) and Brutus knows it well. Theirs is one of the strongest LESSON DEPARTMENT conjugal relations in all of Shakespeare. Brutus knows her strength and fairness, and gives her the respect she deserves, in addition to his love. When Brutus reminds her that she shouldn't kneel to him, she answers: I should not need if you were gentle Brutus. Within the bond of marriage, tell me, Brutus, Is it excepted I should know no secrets That appertain to you? Am I yourself But, as it were, in sort or limitation, To keep with you at meals, comfort your bed, And talk to you sometimes? In the suburbs Of your good pleasure? If it be no mote, Portia is Brutus' harlot, not his wife. IT. 1. 279-287 Dwell I but Likewise, Calpurnia reminds Caesar that her highest wifely function is to share with him his every trouble, and to sustain him with womanly intuitions and promptings which draw upon depths beyond the reach or patience of most men. She tempers Caesar's vanity and ambition, just as Portia balances Brutus' growing rigidity and belief in his own infallibility. It is Portia who best knows the man Brutus could have been; no wonder she symbolizes her grief by killing herself in so spectacular a fashion. No wonder that the heart goes from Brutus' life when he learns of her death. The slow degradation of Brutus lies at the heart of this play. Though he always deserves our esteem because of his lofty goals, we wince to hear him claim that every man who has ever been in his presence has been true to him; that "no man bears sorrow better." We realize how far he is false to him- 137 self, how fully he puts on an act when news is brought him of Portia's death after he has already discovered the fact. Even Cassius stands amazed at his calm, unresponsive reaction. When Messala says she is dead, Brutus replies: Why, farewell, Portia. We must die, Messala. With meditating that she must die once I have the patience to endure it now. Even so great men great losses should endure. I have as much of this in art as you, But yet my nature could not bear it so. Well, to our work alive. You think Of marching to Philhippi presently? IV. 3. 190-197 Mes: Cas: Bru: What do Already we have seen how fully Brutus confesses "the phantasma of hideous dream" which he feels between thinking and doing a dreadful act. Actually Brutus is the most sensitive of persons, as we see in the final act when he treats the boy-musician Lucius with such understanding gentleness, then refuses to disturb his sleep, so tired is he. Significantly it is Brutus who is the last of the conspirators to stab Caesar; in return Caesar's dying words, "Et tu, Brute?" (III. 1. 77). Likewise, when plotting Caesar's death, it is Brutus who laments the need to spill blood at all, and, true to his real self, advises the paradoxical action of killing Caesar as gently as possible: Our course will seem too bloody, Caius Cassius. Let us be sacrificers, but not butchers, Caius. We all stand up against the spirit of Caesar, And in the spirit of men there is no blood. 138 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1957 Oh, that we then could come by Caesar's spirit, And not dismember Caesar! Caesar must bleed for it! Friends, Let's kill him boldly, but not wrathfully. Let's carve him as a dish fit for the gods, Not hew him as a carcass fit for hounds. IT. 1. 162, 166-174 But, alas, And, gentle Thus we know with increased understanding Brutus' inner conflict. He seeks goodness and right, as all men do, but, sensitive to pain and tyranny he forsakes his own best instincts and believes that the only way to triumph in the world is to fight force with force. And, in thus being untrue to his better self, Brutus begins his own end. Though he merits our compassion, we suffer at his loss of direction and balance. How sad to see men of such good intent become lost! Here tragedy lies very near the surface; here reality lies hard upon us all. Thoughts for Discussion 1. How does a play differ from history? 2. While Brutus failed to move the crowd, why was Antony so successful? 3. Why is the language of this play so spare and simple? Why so little poetry? 4. How does the spirit of Caesar finally triumph?