[Vol44 | February 1957 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: A Flag | Author: Derrick]
[A Flag for Utah Statehood Margaret G. Derrick]
placed  on  the  blue  ground  of  our 
beloved  American  flag." 
This  flag  was  marked  and  cut  out 
by  my  brother,  David  Glade,  and 
was  to  be  made  on  the  high-powered 
machines  in  the  Z.  C.  M.  I.  Cloth- 
ing Factory.     The  flag  was  to  be 
Page  106 
150  feet  long  and  seventy-five  feet 
wide.  The  stripes  were  to  be  six 
feet  in  width,  the  stars,  six  feet  from 
tip  to  tip.  These  dimensions  were 
handed  me  by  my  brother  on  a  lit- 
tle card  that  is  now  yellow  with  age. 
Six  women  were  asked  to  make 
this  flag.  I  was  the  youngest  of  the 
group.  The  other  five  were  con- 
siderably older  than  I.  The  flag  was 
made  of  good  bunting  and  every 
seam  was  felled  to  give  it  strength. 
Placing  the  stars  on  the  blue  ground 
was  the  hardest  and  the  most  tedi- 
ous part  of  the  work.  The  blue 
ground  was  cut  in  blocks.  Each  block 
was  large  enough  to  contain  a  star; 
then  the  blocks  were  joined  togeth- 
er. By  this  method  we  were  able 
to  do  a  better  job  of  placing  the 
stars  in  straight  rows.  It  took  one 
week  for  us,  working  eight  to  ten 
hours  a  day,  to  make  the  flag.  When 
it  was  finished,  it  took  eight  strong 
men  to  lift  it. 
We  who  worked  on  the  flag  were 
not  told  where  it  was  to  be  placed. 
We  knew  it  could  not  be  placed  on 
a  flag  pole.  We  were  soon  to  find 
out  that  it  was  to  be  placed  in  the 
Tabernacle  to  form  a  ceiling.  The 
blue  ground  was  placed  near  the 
large  organ,  that  is,  in  the  north- 
west part  of  the  Tabernacle.  There 
were  nine  feet  of  space  between  the 
dome  of  the  Tabernacle  and  the 
flag.  When  the  air  circulated 
through  this  space  it  caused  the 
flag  to  ripple  across  the  ceiling. 
What  a  beautiful  sight! 
r\^  the  momentous  day,  I  watched 
the  flag  as  it  rippled  across  the 
ceiling  and  tears  filled  my  eyes  and  a

A  FLAG  FOR  UTAH  STATEHOOD 
107 
lump  came  into  my  throat.  I  felt 
this  flag  was  saying,  'Troudly  I 
wave  over  you,  home  of  the  brave 
and  land  of  the  free."  Utah  was 
certainly  a  home  of  brave  pio- 
neers who  had  suffered  and  come 
here  to  have  freedom  to  worship. 
It  came  time  for  the  ceremonies 
to  begin.  A  large  electric  light  had 
been  placed  back  of  the  Utah  star. 
The  audience  was  seated  and  at- 
tention given  to  the  speaker.  Then 
the  light  was  turned  on,  and  the 
Utah  star  shone  out  bright  and 
beautiful.  The  people  wept  with 
joy  and  were  filled  with  humility, 
when  they  saw  the  Utah  star  with 
the  stars  of  the  other  forty-four 
states  of  the  Union.  The  dream  of 
the  people  of  Utah  had  come  true. 
For  the  first  time,  the  Utah  star 
took  its  place  on  the  blue  ground 
of  our  beloved  flag.  Patience  and 
hard  work  had  been  rewarded. 
For  many  years  this  flag  had  the 
distinct  honor  of  being  the  largest 
flag  ever  made.  Not  until  recent 
years  have  we  heard  of  one  larger. 
The  flag  stayed  on  the  ceiling  of 
the  Tabernacle  for  one  and  one- 
half  years.  It  was  then  taken  down 
and  placed  on  the  south  outside 
wall  of  the  temple,  covering  the  en- 
tire south  wall.  That  was  for  July 
24th,  1897  ~  celebrating  fifty  years 
since  the  coming  of  the  first  pio- 
neers. We  last  saw  the  flag  adorn- 
ing the  temple.  Many  prominent 
people  have  tried  to  find  out  what 
became  of  this  flag,  but  have  not 
succeeded. 
Sixty  years  ago  there  was  no  place 
to  store  such  an  immense  thing. 
Families  of  five  and  six  members 
were  living  in  three  small  rooms. 
Wherever  it  could  have  been  placed 
it  would  have  deteriorated. 
This  beautiful  flag  served  well 
the  purpose  for  which  it  was  made. 
Many  hearts  were  filled  with  joy 
and  happiness  as  they  looked  upon 
it. 
As  I  write  this,  I  am  the  only  one 
living  today  who  helped  to  make 
that  flag  that  was  the  first  to  carry 
the  forty-fifth  star,  the  Utah  star. 
I  hope  mv  grandchildren  will  re- 
member that  their  grandmother 
sewed  love  into  this  famous  flag. 
Let  us  all  remember,  as  Ameri- 
can citizens,  that  we  are  all  makers 
of  our  beloved  flag,  for  it  is  the 
symbol  of  faith,  courage,  and  the 
love  of  God  and  our  country  in 
the  hearts  of  each  individual.  May 
we  always  live  up  to  these  ideals. 
I  Le\K>  Serial    cJhe   {Bright  Star     to    iuegin  in    1 1  Larch 
\  new  serial  'The  Bright  Star,"  by  Dorothy  S.  Romney  will  begin  in  the  March 
-^~*-  issue  of  The  Relief  Society  Magazine.  With  the  Golden  Gate,  California,  as  its 
setting,  the  story  tells  of  Kathy  Tracy's  search  into  the  past  to  find  her  parents,  and  her 
integrity  and  courage  in  planning  the  course  of  her  future.  Dorothy  S.  Romney,  the 
author,  has  previously  been  represented  in  the  Magazine  during  1954  and  1955  with  her 
serial  ''Contentment  Is  a  Lovely  Thing."  Mrs.  Romney  was  born  in  Logan,  Utah,  and 
attended  Utah  State  Agricultural  College.  She  is  the  widow  of  Elmer  Romney  and 
the  mother  of  a  thirteen-year-old  son.  Her  stories  and  plays  have  appeared  in  many 
juvenile  publications.
