[Vol44 | February 1957 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Candy | Author: Day]
[Candy for Valentine's Day]
(^andif  for    Valentine  s    Jjaii 
Mary  /.  Wilson 
Molasses  Taffy 
3  tbsp.  butter 
1  tsp.  vinegar 
Vs   tsp.  salt 
1  c.  sugar 
%    c.  water 
1  c.  light  molasses 
Mix  sugar,  molasses,  salt,  vinegar,  and  water  in  pan.  Cook  to  242°F.  (firm  ball). 
Add  butter  and  cook  to  265°  (very  hard  ball).  Pour  into  lightly  buttered  shallow  pans, 
let  stand  undisturbed  until  cool  enough  to  handle.  Butter  hands  lightly,  pull  until  candy 
has  a  satin-like  finish  and  is  elastic.  Pull  out  into  thin  rolls,  cut  with  scissors,  then 
wrap  in  wax  paper. 
Iceland  Moss 
(Hard  Candy) 
4  c.  sugar 
2  c.  white  syrup 
1  c.  water 
tbsp.  anise  extract 
red  coloring 
Combine  sugar,  syrup,  and  water  and  cook  to  310°.  Do  not  stir  while  cooking. 
Add  anise  extract  and  desired  red  coloring.  Mix  well.  Pour  onto  marble  slab.  When 
slightly  cooled,  pass  well-oiled  candy  knife  under  the  mass  of  candy.  Cut  into  squares. 
Wrap  each  piece  individually. 
Stuffed  Date  Drops 
1  Yt  c.  sifted  flour 
Yi  tsp.  baking  powder 
Yz  tsp.  salt 
Yz  c.  commercial  sour  cream 
1  lb.  pitted  dates  (about  70) 
1  egg 
13  oz.  package  pecan  nuts 
!4  c.  shortening 
%  c.  brown  sugar 
Stuff  dates  with  nut  halves.  Cream  shortening  and  sugar  until  light.  Beat  in 
egg.  Sift  dry  ingredients,  add  alternately  with  sour  cream  to  creamed  mixture.  Stir 
in  dates,  drop  on  greased  cookie  sheet,  a  date  per  cookie,  and  bake  in  400°  oven  for 
eight  to  ten  minutes.    Cool  and  top  with  panocha  icing. 
1  c.  brown  sugar  (packed) 
/4   c.  milk 
Panocha  Icing 
Yz   c.  butter 
1  %    to  2  c.  confectioner's  sugar 
Melt  butter  in  saucepan.  Add  brown  sugar.  Boil  over  low  heat  two  minutes, 
stirring  constantly.  Stir  in  milk.  Bring  to  boil,  stirring  constantly.  Cool  to  luke- 
warm. Gradually  add  confectioner's  sugar.  Beat  until  thick  enough  to  spread.  If 
icing  becomes  too  stiff,  add  a  little  hot  water. 
Kyittic  cJt 
re  a  sure 
Maude  Ruhin 
Paper  lace  —  a  bleeding  heart 
Pierced  by  Daniel  Cupid's  dart — 
Clasping  hands,  forget-me-nots, 
A  dove  of  peace  for  happy  thoughts- 
Faded  writing,  cramped  and  fine — 
All  on  Grandma's  valentine! 
Page  113