Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman TEMPLE PARK, CARDSTON, CANADA Alberia Stake. Saturday, July 26, after the monthly stake Priesthood meeting, the Alberta stake Relief Society, under the leadership of President Jane W. Bates, entertained the married people of the various wards of the stake in a literary contest and lawn social in the temple park, Cardston, Alberta. The contest consisted of review questions on the past season's work and was conducted by assistant stake class leader, Talitha Carlson. Much interest was manifested and some very creditable work was done. Three valuable books were awarded as prizes to the following: Lovina Low, Cardston Second ward; Ina Merrill, Hillspring ward; Hilda VanWrinkle, Cardston First ward. Music was furnished by the Merritime String Players from Kansas City, Missouri; Ralph Smalley, Harry Armiton, S. E. Burton, assisted by L. W. Bates. Refreshments followed the program and consisted of sandwiches, pickles, cheese, salads, Boston baked beans, ice cream, and several varieties of cake. Mrs. Mary E. Smith was chairman of the refreshment committee 
 and was assisted in serving by the members of the board. Approximately five hundred people were served, only a part of whom are shown in the picture. Appropriate games were played, conducted by Mrs. Pearl Woolf and Mrs. Dora Jacobs, with everybody participating including the elderly people who entered wholeheartedly into the fun. Following up the work of the health conference of last March, the Alberta stake Relief Society board have distributed some 1,200 pamphlets, "The Fly Evil, its Life History," etc., to every home and have obtained 600 each of the following pamphlets for distribution: "Food for a Child 1 to 2 Years," "2 to 5: Years," and "5 to 7 Years," "Milk as a Whole Food," "Uses of Cream," ''Milk," "Buttermilk," "Cheese," "Skim milk," and "Cottage Cheese." This material was obtained from the government by merely paying the express charges. As a result of this effort the women are doing all in their power to promote better sanitation and health, by putting into practice the instructions they have received, and they are now planning a baby clinic for next year. For the Canadian temple the wards donated last year twenty-seven completed temple suits, and the stake gave $1,531 in Sunday egg money, $500 of which was donated between April and August, 1923. This money was expended for dainty furnishings and useful articles for the temple. Alberta stake, has paid $97. For a loan chest which is fully equipped with sheets, pillow cases, maternity bundles, etc. The wards have all received bundles and have appreciated them, especially in the outlying districts. In the regular work meetings some of the stake officers are assisting the wards by giving demonstrations in cooking, which are very much appreciated and are bringing results. Taylor Stake. The Taylor stake has been making special efforts to create interest in the Relief Society Magazine, and to increase the subscriptions to the Magazine. The stake Magazine agent is working with the local agent, trying: to get all Bee-Hive girls to subscribe for the Relief Society Magazine for their Mother's Christmas present, and where the mother has no daughters belonging to the Bee-Hive, they are asking the sons or husbands to subscribe for it as a Christmas gift to her. It is hoped that this will place the Magazine in nearly every Relief Society mother's home. The stake board gave a prize of a year's subscription to the Magazine to the ward having the nearest 100% officers' and teachers' present at the recent convention. The stake board is offering a prize (the bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine) to the ward getting the nearest 100% visits of district teachers and the using of the teachers' topics. Taylor stake Relief Society has donated to the Cardston temple seventeen complete suits for working purposes. Each society in the stake, during the year 1924, gathered Sunday. Eggs or their equivalent for a donation to the temple for maintenance purposes. One of the special activities of the year was for the mothers of the Relief Society having grown sons and daughters to attend dances and young people's entertainments. The results have been excellent. The stake activity committee in the spring asked all Relief Society members to plan flower gardens, lawns and trees, and to try to make their homes more beautiful. As a result, the town as well as the prairie homes have been made much more attractive and pleasant. A stake choir was organized in Taylor stake during the year. A list of the singers selected by the local presidents was sent te our stake president, and she sent a letter calling each to the position. The stake has a very efficient choir leader and organist. Each ward in the stake has been asked to have a layette on hand in each society. The stake board has some articles for layettes and are planning to assist each ward by donating some articles wherewith to begin their layettes. Lethbridge Stake. With a view of raising funds for health work, the Relief Society stake board of Lethbridge stake, conceived the idea of vetting out-a cook book. As a result an excellent book was produced containing two hundred fifty original and tested recipes, and it is being sold at 50c a copy. A member of the General Board who has used the book declares it is the best cook book she has ever had. The Relief Society in this stake is cooperating with the club women and the civic authorities in the interest of health with very satisfactory results. Lethbridge stake Relief Society contributed twenty-four complete suits to the Canadian temple, each group of ten members furnishing a suit. At a recent convention, two ward officers were present who had traveled 212 miles, one of them bringing with her a nursing babe. The interest and enthusiasm of these two workers is typical of the spirit of this new and flourishing stake. General Board visitors to Lethbridge stake were entertained at the Dominion Agricultural College, a courtesy which was greatly appreciated. Sf RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Yellowstone Stake. The Yellowstone stake Relief Society annual day was spent at the tabernacle grounds on the afternoon and evening of August 12. The stake presidency, high council, stake boards of the auxiliary associations, bishoprics and their partners, were guests of the Relief Society women of the stake. Community singing, program and games were features of the afternoon. At 6:30 there was a picnic luncheon with ice cream furnished by the stake board. During the luncheon toasts and music were the special features. Tables especially provided for the occasion were profusely decorated with garden flowers. A delightful part of the evening's entertainment was an original sketch produced by Relief Society members of the Wilford ward in appreciation of the stake officers. Ward Relief Society conferences were held in all wards of Yellowstone stake during the summer and fall season. Tintic Stake. On September 1 and 2, the Tintic stake made an excursion to the Salt Lake Temple, which resulted in the following records: work for 247, and $76.75 temple contribution. ORGANIZATIONS AND REORGANIZATIONS Utah-Kolob Stakes On Sunday, November 23, 1924, the Utah stake was divided. The northern portion, consisting of Bonneville, Grand View, Lake View, Manavu, Pioneer, Pleasant View, Provo, (6 wards) Sharon, Timpanogos, and Vineyard wards, will retain the name Utah stake, and the southern portion, composed of Mapleton, Springville (4 wards), Thistle and Soldier Summit wards, will be known as Kolob stake. Mrs. Electa Dixon and her officers were retained in Utah stake and the new officers for Kolob stake are: president, Mrs. Hannah B. Mendenhall; counselors, Mrs. Eva M. Crandall and Mrs. Hazel M. Robertson; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Irene B. Cook. Nebo-Palmyra Stakes Nebo stake was divided on Sunday, November 23, into Nebo and Palmyra stakes. Nebo stake will consist of Benjamin, Payson (3 wards), Spring Lake and Genola wards, and Palmyra will be made up of Lake Shore, Leland, Palmyra, Salem and the four Spanish Fork wards. Mrs. Hepsy Lewis will continue as president of Nebo stake, and the Relief Society officers for Palmyra stake were appointed as follows: president, Mrs. Delila Hughes; counselors, Mrs. Jane Jones and Hattie Wilcox; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Lillie M. Rowe. North Weber Stake Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott was recently released as president of the Relief Society of North Weber stake and on Sunday, November 8, the stake was reorganized.; Mrs. Marriott had served as president for fifteen years, and she insisted that it was time for some one else to be given the opportunity to take up the work. Mrs. Marriott is a woman of marked ability and rare vision, and being blessed in addition with strength, energy and ambition, she has succeeded in making the North Weber stake Relief Society one of the most active and progressive groups in the whole Church. No task has seemed too great for Mrs. Marriott and the women of her stake. In the councils of the General Board and stake presidents, when new problems have had to be met and oid policies changed and modified to meet growing conditions and needs, this courageous and loyal worker had been ready always to undertake for herself and the women of her stake any extra work or additional task necessary to cover the emergency and to help out the organization as a whole. When, during the war, it was decided that the abolishment of agents' fees and a larger subscription list for the Relief Society Magazine might obviate the necessity of raising the price of the periodical, Mrs. Marriott suggested that stake presidents act personally as agents with the view of enlarging the circulation. This action was finally decided upon, and a few weeks later Mrs. Marriott sent in subscriptions from her stake amounting to 100% of the membership. When Mrs. Marriott became president fifteen years ago, there was no general uniform course of study in the Relief Society. Each stake and in many instances each ward, arranged for its own educational work. Mrs. Marriott almost immediately prepared a uniform course of study for her wards in the form of printed guide lessons, and visited each ward personally to help introduce the work and standardize class instruction.  Mrs. Julia E. Parry was appointed president to succeed Mrs. Marriott, and her long experience in Relief Society work ably fits her for her position. Mrs. Minnie C. Stratford and Mrs. Sarah A. S. Larkin were chosen as counselors, and Mrs. Mary A. Terry was retained as secretary-treasurer. With the exception of one resignation and two new members the board remains as it was. Before. On Saturday, December 20, a testimonial was given by the North Weber stake Relief Society in honor of Mrs. Marriott. Expressions of: appreciation for her work and for the work of her board were the order of the occasion, and there was a presentation of appropriate gifts. Mrs. Marriott was presented with a beautiful ring, Mrs. Julia E. Parry; was given a crystal bowl filled with roses, Mrs. Middleton, a book of poems, and Mrs. 
 Mary A. Terry, two crystal candle sticks. Mrs.