[WomansExponent | Vol25 | 1896 | May | Issue: 21 | Title: READ BEFORE  THE REAPER’S CLUB BY | Author: Unknown]

READ BEFORE  THE REAPER’S CLUB BY
MISS JULIA A DRUCE.
	Egypt is a country in the northeast of
Africa, extending from the Mediterranean
Sea to the first cataract of the Nile, that of
Assouan,—(the ancient Syene.)—Its
length from this cataract to the northern-
most point of the Delta, is about 500 miles;
and its breadth from the shores of the Red
Sea to the Libyan desert, may be estimated
at 250 miles. This land was inhabited at a
very early period of the world’s existence;
and in ancient times it contained a great
number of cities, and an incredible multi-
tude of people. Egypt may be described
as “the bed of the Nile;” the cultivated
territory only extending to the limits of the
inundation. In the island of Rhoda, situ-
ated on the opposite side of the river from
Cairo, is the Nilometer, a column which in-
dicates the height of the water during an
inundation of the Nile. This pillar is
made of marble and is very slender. The
building here formerly had a dome, bearing

[Column 2]
a C[--]ic inscription dated 847 A. D. At
present this Nilometer consists of a square
well, in which is placed a graduated pillar
of marble. There is another Nilometer at
Elephantine, close to Assouan, which con-
sists of a staircase between two walls, des-
cending to the Nile. One of these walls
has engraved on it a series of lines at proper
intervals, which marked the different eleva-
tions of the river during the time of the
Caesars. This is the well that Strabo
speaks of, and is much older than the
column at Rhoda. The most ancient of
these measures appears to have been erect-
ed at Memphis.
	The climate of Egpyt is not very healthy.
The sun is extremely hot, and rains fall
but seldom. Thunder and lightning are
both unfrequent. At intervals during the
spring, for about fifty days, Egypt is liable
to the terrible wind of the desert, which
from its intense heat and dryness, is almost
unendurable. The irritating effects caused
by innumerable particles of sand, which
accompany this wind, are also very disa-
greeable. Fortunately it seldom continues
more than three days at a time.
	Egypt is separated from Nubia by a low
hilly region, composed of granite rocks.
The same crystalline rocks extend up the
shore of the Red Sea, to near the opening of
the Gulf of Suez. The scenery in this district
is wild and rude. The course of the Nile
is often interrupted by cliffs and broken
masses of granite, forming magnificent
cataracts. The granite region terminates
at Assouan. From the rocks here, were
obtained the materials for the colossal and
monolithic monuments of Egypt. The
valley of Upper Egypt is bounded by two
ranges of hills running northward—the
Arabian on the right, and the Libyan on
the left of the river; both, alike, composed
of cretaceous strata, the predominant rock
being sandstone. This is a durable and
easily worked stone; it was therefore used
extensively in the erection of ancient tem-
ples. The city of Thebes was built of it.
This sandstone extends from the granitic
rocks forming the first cataract at Assouan,
for about 85 miles to Esne, where it is
covered by a limestone strata; and this
continues on both sides of the valley for
about 130 miles, when it is again covered
by a limestone deposit which forms the
other portions, extending northward of
both ranges of hills. The scenery of the
limestone districts is tame and monot-
onous; frequent tablelands occur, on one of
which are built the three pyramids of
Gizeh, the material employed being the
predominant limestone. This land is very
deficient in timber trees; the Pharaohs ob-
tained cedar from Lebanon, and ebony
from Ethiopia. The rocks of Egypt afford-
ed the stones used in its edifices and sculp-
tures,—granite, syenite and basalt from
Assouan,—porphyry from the quarries of
Gebel Doshan, which were opened in the
reign of the Emperor Claudius; sandstone,
limestone etc. Alabaster, which was found
at Tel-el-amarna, has been used from the
earliest periods to the present day. Emer-
alds are produced by the mines of Gebel

[Column 3]
Zabara. Salt, natron, and since 1850, sul-
phur are among the other mineral produc-
tions of Egypt. Natron is a native car-
bonate of soda, and was used by the people
in their embalming process. We know
that Egypt occupied a very early place in
the world’s civilization. Thence Greece
derived her art, literature and science. She
handed them down to imperial Rome,
whose mission it was to diffuse them over
western Europe. The Great Pyramid was
an antiquity in the days when many of the
famous nations of old were in their youth.
The pyramids were rising on the bank of
the Nile at an epoch coeval with that of
Abraham and Isaac. Egypt was a power-
ful and opulent empire in the days of
Joseph; and it was in the Egyptian schools
that Moses received his education.
	One of the most important points in the
history of this land, is the chronological;
involving, as it does, the date of the earli-
est historical epoch of man. In the time of
Ptolemy Philadelphus, during the 3rd cen-
tury B. C., Manetho, high priest of
Heliopolis, drew up at the request of this
king, a history, in which he divided the
space of time from Menes—the first king
of Egypt—up to the reconquest of that
country by Darius II., into thirty dynas-
ties. The work of Manetho has perished,
but the chronological epitomes remain, in
the works of several ancient writers. The
Holy Bible, Herodotus, Diodorus, Josephus,
Eratosthenes and other historians also con-
tain sources of chronological information.
Herodotus saw, and talked with Manetho;
so that probably he obtained many histori-
cal items from him. This Manetho had
been instructed in Grecian learning, which
was a valuable aid to him. Learned writ-
ers have been trying for many years to re-
concile the conflicting statements of vari-
ous ancient historians, in regard to dates.
The national custom in ancient Egypt, was
to reckon any important event from, or in
the reign of that king in whose time it oc-
curred, without using the controlling date
of any cycle. This fact rendered portions
of their early history rather obscure, and
also made it difficult for historians to obtain
perfectly correct information.
	The chronology of Bishop Usher,—which
is from the Hebrew—placed 4004 B. C., as
the date of the Creation, and 2348 B. C.,
for the Deluge; and these dates seem to
have obtained the sanction of theological
writers. The celebrated hieratic papyrus
at Turin, of the age of the 19th dynasty,
which contained a system of chronology
arranged on a principle of cyclic and regnal
years, has unfortunately suffered so much
mutilation, that it is impossible to recon-
struct it satisfactorily. It is therefore bet-
ter to depend upon the account given by
Manetho as to the dynastic succession;—
taking that history as waves of time,—
especially in regard, to the more remote
periods. There is not sufficient monu-
mental or other data, for a sure conclusion
about many of the early rulers. The docu-
ment at Turin, and the list furnished by
Manetho, do not agree as to the number of
kings who ruled in Egypt from the close of


the 6th to the 11th dynasty. It
is therefore supposed that these accounts
represent the succession of rulers in Mem-
phis and Thebes, respectively, during that
period. Mythically, Egypt claims to have
been in existence at a much earlier date
than we have any knowledge of its history.
There were in this land during ancient
times, four principal dynasties; that of
Thebes, Thin, Memphis and Tanis. It was
in the country of Tanis that the Israelites
dwelt. The first period in Egyptian his-
tory begins with the establishment of a
monarchy by Menes, or Misraim, the son of
Cham, or Ham, in the year of the world
1816,—or 2188 B. C.,—and ends with the
destruction of that monarchy by Cambyses,
King of Persia, in the year 525, B. C. The
second period is intermixed with Persian
and Grecian history, and extends to the
death of Alexander the great, which
occured in Babylon, 323 B. C. The third
period is that in which a new monarchy
was formed in Egypt by the Lagida, or
Ptolemies, in 323 B. C, and ended with
the death of Cleopatra, the last queen of
Egypt, which happened in 30 B. C. The
Lagida were descendants of Ptolemy Lagus,
who was supposed to be a natural son of
Philip of Macedon. The Kings of this
line succeeded each other till Cleopatra, a
sister of the last Ptolemy, ascended the
throne when Egypt became a Roman pro-
vince, and continued so until the reign of
Omar, the second Caliph of the successors
of Mahomet, who drove out the Romans,
after it had been in their hands nearly
seven hundred years.
	In 1171 A. D., the Caliph Saladin intro-
duced the Mamelukes into Egypt and
when the power of the Caliphs declined, El
Moez, a slave belonging to that race, set
up the empire of the Mamelukes about
1250, A. D. At the commencement of the
16th century,about 1517 A.D.,Selim,a Turk-
ish emperor, conquered Egypt and for many
years the country was distracted by civil
wars. The French, under Napoleon Bona-
part, invaded that land in 1798, and they
in turn were driven from it by the Turks
and British in 1801, and the country re-
stored to the Ottoman Porte.
	Historians are unanimously agreed that
Menes, or Misraim, was the first king of
Egypt. He was the son of Cham, the
second son of Noah, and when the family
of the latter, after an extravagant attempt
at building the tower of Babel dispersed
into different countries, Cham, or Ham, re-
tired to Africa. He had four children,
Chus, or Cush, in the Scriptures,— Mis-
raim, Phut and Canaan. Cush settled in
Ethiopia; Misraim in Egypt, which is
sometimes called in the Bible after his
name, and by that of Cham, his father.
The foot-steps of its old name, Misraim, re-
main to this day among the Arabians, who
call it Mesre. Phut took possession of that
part of Africa which lies westward of Egypt,
and Canaan of the country which after-
wards bore his name. Ancient history
says, that “the Canaanites are certainly the
same people who are generally called
Phoenicians by the Greeks, and of which
foreign name no reason can be given, any
more than for the oblivion of the true one.”
			  (Continued.)


