[WomansExponent | Vol25 | 1896 | May | Issue: 21 | Title: PARTY IN THE LION HOUSE. | Author: Unknown]

PARTY IN THE LION HOUSE.

	ON Thursday afternoon April 29, Sister
Margaret P. Young gave a most enjoyable
party in the interesting parlor of the Lion
House. Most of the guests present were
Temple workers; of others there were Presi-
dent George Q. Cannon and President
Angus M. Cannon, Elder A. M. Musser
and a few sisters who were either relatives
or intimate friends among which number
the writer was delighted to be included, as
the company was very select and the house
itself is exceedingly historic, perhaps the
most so of any residence in the State.
	The afternoon was passed in social con-
versation mostly reminiscent of the house,
its illustrious owner and its belongings, of
incidents connected with it and the people
who were familiar and frequent guests
there in the days of President Brigham
Young.
	There were present of his wives besides
the hostess Sister Margaret Young, Sisters
Zina D. H. Young, Emily P. Young,
Naamah T. Young, Lucy B. Young and
Harriet B. Young, and quite a number of his
children which made the house seem much
more natural and homelike than it other-
wise would. The fact of President Young
having died in that house being spoken of,
the guests were told they might visit the
room in which his spirit took its departure
from his mortal body; a large number of
the company availed themselves of this
opportunity; Sister Eliza R. Snow’s death
in the room adjoining the parlor was also
spoken of with tender feeling, and these,
with other more cheerful subjects, formed
interesting matter to dwell upon.
	After refreshments were served and all
had partaken in a social way, one or two
recitations were given and the little grand-
son of Sister Margaret Young played some
difficult musical compositions on the violin,
several very fine musical selections were
given on the piano by Spencer Clawson
Jun, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards sang
in the most delightful way in her exquisite
clear voice the beautiful song by Millard
entitled “Waiting,” and later on by
request, gave “ O, My Father;” and
then there was a little old fashioned
dancing more for the sake of “Auld Lang
Syne” than any particular enjoyment in
the dancing itself. Then a recitation
“Flossie’s Marriage” by Miss Mabel
Snow was given in a very graceful and
forcible manner; afterwards, President
Lorenzo Snow a dressed the brethren and

[Column 2]
sisters alluding particularly to the work in
the Temple and urging the benefits to the
living and the dead. President Angus M.
Cannon also spoke briefly, calling up
remembrances of other days, and relating
some particular incidents that had tran-
spired in that house, which were very
pleasing to recall. Sister Zina D. H.
Young spoke in a very feeling manner for
a few minutes and then broke out in the
gift of tongues, Sister Zina Y. Card gave
the interpretation which was very comfort-
ing.
	As it was getting late the company joined
in singing and Bishop John R. Winder
pronounced the benediction and the com-
pany dispersed, feeling the time had been
delightfully passed and congratulating Sis-
ter Margaret Young upon the success of
the gathering and wishing her many more
years of usefulness upon the earth.
	Sister Margaret P. Young’s birthday
anniversary was on the 19th of April, but
she postponed the party to a more conven-
ent date. Sister Margaret was seventy-
four years of age April 19, 1897—and she
looks remarkably well for one who has
lived so many years and passed through so
much. She was born in Ashton town-
ship, Delaware County, Penn. April 19,
1823, her parents were Quakers, Robert
and Hannah Pierce. They received the
Gospel and were baptized in 1840 and went
up to Nauvoo, Illinois in 1841; in Nauvoo
they lived down near to Brigham Young’s
residence. Sister Margaret was married to
President Young in the Nauvoo Temple
early in 1846 and came out in the winter
time in February 1846, traveling with her
father’s family in the main body of the
Saints. Brother Robert Pierce was one of
the pioneers of 1847, leaving Winter
Quarters in May of that year; Sister Mar-
garet came to the valley with her father
and mother, who also brought with them
Sister Eliza R. Snow the gifted poet and
author. Sister Margaret Young has lived
permanently in the Lion House ever since
it was built, and is still likely to remain
there for many years to come, for she has
the appearance of being very long lived.
	We can scarcely express the feeling one
has when going over such historic places,
but on that day we recalled to mind the
first social party we attended there after
President Young’s death when Gen. Wells
in responding to an invitation to speak was
almost overcome with emotion, and repeat-
ed in closing his speech the beautiful words
of Moore,
“I feel like one who treads alone some banquet
	hall deserted,
Whose lights are fled, whose garlands dead, and
	all but me departed.”


[Column 1]
