William Cullen Bryant MRS. IDA BOWMAN SMITH. Member General Board of the Primary Association. Late President of the European Mission Relief Society. 

 Daughters of Zion. Mrs. Ida Bowman Smith. We are pleased to present to our readers a little resume of the labors performed under the most trying circumstances during the last two years, in the British Mission, by Sister Ida B. Smith, late president of the European Mission Relief Society. Being the wife of President Hyrum M. Smith, Sister Ida was able to reach the widest possible circle of friends and Saints, as well as having the opportunity to travel about and mingle freely with the scattered branches of the Church in that famous mission. She was appointed by the General Board as President of the Relief Societies in that mission in 1914, and has spared neither time nor her own strength in the accomplishment of the great work she has been able to do. Gifted with a charming personality, gracious and tactful, her handsome presence has been like a beam of sunshine to all with whom she came in contact. Sister Smith assumed her labors just at the outbreak of the war, and, naturally, her attention was at once directed to the alleviation of suffering among the women and children of that war stricken country. It will be remembered by the readers of the Magazine, that Sister Edna L. Smith — President of the sister workers in the Salt Lake Temple was moved upon to raise a voluntary contribution among her associates and friends for the sufferers in the war-stricken countries in Europe. An instant response to her magnetic appeal was made, and within a month. Sister Smith sent several hundred dollars to President Hyrum M. Smith. This inspirational movement by a devoted woman, no doubt moved the Church authorities to call a general fast meeting which was held throughout the Church, in February, 1915, and which we all know resulted in raising a fund in one day of over thirty thousand dollars. 
 When the war broke out, President Ida B. Smith at once offered her assistance to the lady Mayoress of Liverpool, and her offer was eagerly accepted. She arranged for the Edna L. Smith Fund to be used entirely for destitute families and the orphan children of the war. The Relief Societies were supplied with materials by the various war-relief British associations and hundreds of articles were made for the use of the soldiers at the front. This relief work continues to occupy our sisters all over Europe in their various societies. Sister Smith has thus come into prominent association with all of the relief committees in England. Especially was she honored with letters of greetings and gratitude from many mayors and heads of official bureaus and Red Cross Societies. It is impossible to estimate the value and extent of the influence and friendship thus gained by this devoted worker. From a membership in the Relief Societies in Great Britain of a little over 400, in 1914, in one year there was an increase of over one thousand members. There were 42 branch organizations during the year of 1914. Today there are 99 such branches in the European conference. During the current year, there has been distributed in these branches $3,210.86, while they still have a balance on hand of $1,046.13. Sister Smith has been a member of the General Board of the Primary Association for a number of years, and has done splendid work in that organization. She is the mother of a family, and has never spared herself in her service to her noble husband, her gifted family, and her admiring friends. Besides all this, she has added her unique and unequalled labors in organizing and carrying forward a magnificent relief work in the British Mission during the past two war-stricken years. We are told by an eye-witness of the labors performed by this remarkable woman, of a visit she has recently paid to Hull, on her way to Glasgow and New Castle. From there she went to Sheffield and then to Manchester. This was in the first week in this present month, August, and was the beginning of a three weeks' missionary tour taken by Sister Ida, accompanied by her little daughter Geraldine, visiting in the interest of the Relief Societies of the United Kingdom. She had received so many letters from the sisters all over the British Mission, pleading that she come and visit them once more before she left for home, that the president of the mission concluded to make appointments for meetings in each conference, and sent her around the circuit on a final visit to the societies. It required three weeks of constant travel, with meetings nearly every day, but so urgent was the call, that she was willing to undertake the labor. The president of the mission testifies that "nothing more beneficial to the mission could happen at the present time than the DAUGHTERS OF ZION. 545 fulfilling of these appointments made with the women of Great Britain. Most of the Societies have been, and are still working with the Red Cross organizations in the various cities of Great Britain. They have done good work, and a great deal of it their labors; have been greatly sought after, and appreciated by the Red Cross workers. Many hundreds of articles, in great demand by the British Army and hospitals, have been made and voluntarily sent to the different committees, having in charge the collection and distribution of such needful things. The members of the Relief Societies, everywhere, have found happiness in this work, and have performed it earnestly and cheerfully. It has also had the effect of bringing more of the sisters into closer touch with each other, and has aroused greater activity in all of the Church matters, uniting the sisters together, as perhaps they were never so united before. To the Lord first should praise be given, for the inspiration to his handmaiden. Sister Edna L. Smith, who began this charitable work, and to Sister Ida, secondly, for her diligent labor among the Societies, is due the main credit for the present splendid condition of the Relief Societies in the British Mission. The mission itself and all the members thereof have been benefited by this work, more even than we can at present understand. Sister Ida's influence among the sisters, and other members of the Church, as well as among the elders and all others with whom she has mingled and labored, has been truly remarkable. She has been filled with real missionary zeal, and has kept up a voluminous correspondence with the fifty Relief Society organizations in the British Mission itself, and with the thirteen conference presidents of the mission, scattered throughout Europe. She has preached the Gospel to every one with whom she has come in contact —shop people, when buying in the stores school teachers and music teachers with whom her children have studied; physicians, whose professional services were required from time to time at mission headquarters; prominent and famous English women of the war zones ministers and other church workers; whom she has met fellow passengers on the trains widows, and; ; orphans, whom she has sought out and administered to them temporal and physical comfort, made possible by the E. L. S. Fund. Hundreds of the poor and almost destitute children from the slums have had the Gospel preached to them in the most tactful and sympathetic manner by this lovely daughter of Zion. She has borne testimony to the appearance of the Savior, to the Prophet Joseph Smith, and to the Church established in this latter day by the Prophet Joseph. She has been treated most kindly and courteously, and has won the confidence and professed friendship of all who have listened to her, and none have refused to listen. The 
 attitude of some has been rather doubtful at first, but invariably such people have expressed pleasure in coming to a better understanding of the Latter-day Saints, as a result of these conversations. Naturally, Sister Smith is humbly and truly grateful to the Lord, and gives Him the credit and praise for her countless blessings enjoyed during her mission. Her husband and she have sowed and watered, and the Lord will give the increase. We congratulate all of our sisters in the British Mission on the splendid work Sister Smith has done, and we honor and appreciate her as the leader and organizer of that work. She is most welcome to Zion. Wherever her feet may turn, may the flowers of peace and love spring about her path, as they always have, during her past life.