Home Scientists in Convention. By Janette A. Hyde. The visit of the Utah party to the Home Economics convention, at Cornell University Ithaca, New York, held June 28, to July 2, 1916, was both profitable and pleasurable. The association with women of keen intellectual force, united with trained executive ability was in itself, an education. The mental equipment of these superior women has been focused for the past decade and more on home problems and scientific adjustment of domestic labors. The program easily indicates the class of work done by this splendid convention PROGRAM OF THE ANNUAL MEETING OF THE AMERICAN HOME ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION. CORNELL UNIVERSITY, ITHACA, NEW YORK. JUNE 28- JULY 2, 1916. — June 28, Section Programs Extension Science Institution, — June 29 July 2, General Program. PROGRAM FOR SECTIONS, Institution Section, Wednesday, June 28, 9:30 a. m.. Room 245. Chairman — Sarah Louise Arnold, Dean of Simmons College, Boston; Secretary, Emma Gunther, Teacher's College, New York City, 
 — Students' food Service at a dormitory table, Elizabeth Goodrich, Simmons College, Boston. Psychology of dainty food for students, Bertha Shapleigh, Teacher's College, Columbia University, New York City. — Discussion Problem connected with students' food Lead- ; er: Isabel Ely Lord, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, Aided by: Alice Loomis, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Anne D. Biltz, Dean of Women, William Smith College, Geneva, Mary Uri Watson, McDonald Institute, Guelph, Canada. Organization of service in a new cafeteria, Blanche Geary, Accounts and Finance, Y. W. C. A., New York City. Wednesday, 8:00 p. m. — Chairman William Morse Cole, School of Business Administration, Harvard University. Survey of sanitary conditions in institutions, Dr, C. E. A. Winslow, Anna Lauder, Professor, School of Medicine, Yale. Studies on labor problems in institutions, Henriette Roelofs-University household employment commission. New York City. ROUND TABLES AND CONFERENCES. Cafeteria Management — Wednesday, 2:00 p. m. — Chairman of committee Anna Hunn, Cornell University; Presiding chairman, Elizabeth Goodrich, Simmons College. The cafeteria of Curtis Publishing Company, Philadelphia Anna M. East, The Ladies Home Journal, Philadelphia. A discussion will follow.on problems related to cafeteria management, and these conferences will continue on the succeeding days. Laundry Management —Wednesday, 3:00 p. m. Chairman of committee — L. R. Balderston, Teachers College. Columbia University. A study of laundry costs, L. R. Balderston. Dietitians — Wednesday, (Time to be arranged.) — Chairman Alice P. Atwood, John Hopkins, Baltimore. Report of chairman, followed by discussion Note Chairmen of committees on housekeeping supplies, : per capita costs, and waste, will plan round tables and conferences. HOME SCIENTISTS IN CONVENTION. 561. EXTENSION SECTION. Wednesday, June 28, 9:30 a. m., Room 100. — Chairman Gertrude McCheyne, University of Utah, Laura Comstock, presiding. The purpose of the extension section: Laura Comstock, Massachusetts Agricultural College. Reports of committees: Relation of extension staff to the University department, Mamie Bunch, University of Illinois. Courses of instruction for extension workers, Elizabeth Veley, University of Wisconsin. How we conduct the work in Florida, Agnes Ellen Harris, State University, Tallahassee, Florida. Financing the home demonstration work. D. W. Working, U. S. Dept., Agriculture, The county agent, Junior Extension. Wednesday, 2:00 p. m.. Room 100. Business meeting: Discussion of work accomplished by committees Plans for new work Election of officers. ; ; SCIENCE SECTION. Wednesday, June 28. 9:30 a. m., Room 300. Chairman —Ruth Wheeler, University of Illinois. The digestibility of starch as affected by various processes of cookery. Amy Louise Daniels, University of Wisconsin. Practical ways of increasing the iron content of the diet, Caroline L. Hunt Office of Nutrition Investigation, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. Standardization of cooking temperature, Louise Stanley, University of Missouri. Recent contributions to knowledge of mineral metabolism, Grace McLeod, Pratt Institute. The new dietetic treatment of diabetes mellitus, Lenna F. Cooper, Battle Creek, Michigan. Recent contributions of bacteriology to the home, Josephine Kerr Allison, Urbana, Illinois. Creatin and creatinin in excretion, Emma B. Wagner, University of Missouri. Co-operation between the Home Economics Department and the hospital, Ruth Wardall, Iowa State University. Note: The papers will be short enough to leave time for full discussion, and it is hoped that all members of the section will come prepared to take part in the discussion of at least one paper. 
 GENERAL PROGRAM, ROOM 245. Thursday, June 29. 7:45 a. m. Meeting.of executive council in the Home Economics Building. 9:30 a. m. Convenient kitchens (Stereopticon) Helen Binkerd Young, Department of Home Economics, Cornell University. Discussion. 10:00 a. m. Practice houses for students in Home Economics, Isabel Ely Lord, Pratt Institute, Brooklyn. Discussion 11:00 a. m. The housing problem, Lawrence Veiller, Sec'y. National Housing Association, New York City. Discussion 12:30 p. m. Old-fashioned singing school, led by Sarah Buchanan Huff, New York City. All members of the conference are asked to join 2:00 p. m. Conference on health. Dr. C. E. A. Winslow, School of Medicine, Yale University. Relation of Home Economics education to social hygiene. Dr. William F. Snow, General Secretary American Social Hygiene Association, New York City. 3:30 p. m. Auto parties, picnics and walking trips to nearby lakes, gorges, glens and falls, will be arranged. 8:00 p. m. Short addresses: Trained women to earn a national movement, ; Alvin E. Dodd, Secretary National Society for the promotion of Industrial Education, New York City. Note Several association visitors will be in- : troduced. 9:30 p. m. Informal reception on the roof garden to members of the conference. Friday, June 30. 9:30 a. m. Report: Committee on textiles. Medium priced linens for institution and home, Mary Schenck Woolman, Specialist in vocational educational, Boston National Society for the promotion of Industrial Education. The teaching of sewing, Celestine Schmit. Department of Home Economics, University of Wisconsin. HOME SCIENTISTS IN CONVENTION. 563 Standardization of women's clothing, Ethel Rondoni, University of Missouri. 11:15 a. m. Chemistry and cooking, Wilder D. Bancroft. Department of Chemistry, Cornell University. 11:45 a. m. Calorimeter experiments, Dr. Eugene F. DuBois, Bellevue Hospital, New York. 12:30 p. m. Old-fashioned singing school, led by Sara Buchanan Huff. 2:00 p. m. Conference on elementary education in Home Economics, Martha French, Chairman, State Normal College, Ypsilanti, Mich. Home economics equipment. Adelaide Laura Van Duzer, Cleveland Public Schools, Ada Z. Fish, William Penn High School. 2:00 p. m. Conference of administrative workers, Josephine Berry, Chairman University of Minnesota. ; Conference, Social work in Home Economics, Emma A. Winslow, Chairman. 3:30 p. m. Auto parties, picnics and walking trips to nearby lakes, gorges, glens and falls will be arranged. 8:00 p. m. Omelet and Oatmelia. a travesty given by students in the Department of Home Economics. Cornell University, Bailey Hall. Note: A charge of thirty-five and fifty cents will be made for this entertainment, and the proceeds will be devoted to the Ellen H. Richards memorial fund. PROGRAM OF THE COMMITTEE OF FIFTY FOR JOURNALISM. Saturday, July 1, 9:30 a. m., Room 245. Chairman —Anna Merritt East, Ladies' Home Journal, Mary Hinman Abel, Presiding. Training the pen to keep step with the laboratory, Alice P. Norton. Editor of the Journal of Home Economics. The Editor's blue pencil, Anna Barrows. Teachers' College, Columbia University, Jessamine Chapman Williams. University of Arizona. — Our writing laboratory the papers, Harry R. O'Brien. Assistant Professor of Journalism, Iowa State College of Agriculture. Ames, Iowa. Where the camera and the pen have each a share food ad- — Author. vertising, Marion Harris Neil, Why the business world needs experts who can write. Grace R. Wilmot, Interior Decorator, New York City. How Uncle Sam writes, C. F. Langworthy, Office of Home Economics, United States Department of Agriculture. 564. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Writing your own press notices, Mamie Bunch, Extension Department, University of Illinois. Charting your way, O. H. Benson, in Charge Boys' and Girls' Work, N. and W., United States Department of Agriculture. Balancing menus for print, Lenna Frances Cooper, Head Dietitian, Battle Creek Sanatorium. Filling the gap — How to cover the distance between the domestic science expert and the editor, Edward W. Bok, Editor Ladies' Home Journal, Isabel Bevier, University of Illinois. Arthur T. Vance, Editor The Pictorial Review, Marie Sellers, Home Department Editor, The Country Gentleman, Catherine MacKay, Iowa State College of Agriculture, James Tower. Managing Editor The Designer, Janet McKenzie Hill, Editor The American Cookery, Mildred Maddocks, Good Housekeeping Institute. Homemaking clubs developed through a farm journal, Mrs. W. N. Hutt, Editor Home Circle Department, The Progressive Farmer. Planning my magazine, Leonarda Goss, Editor The Farmer's Wife, St. Paul, Minnesota Helping farm homemakers to study their business, Harriet Mason, Associate Editor, The Ohio Farmer. The possibilities of a woman's page in the daily newspapers, Eva Von Bauer Hansel, Editor woman's page, New York Evening Sun. What the Sunday papers want, Mary Avery, Editor woman's page, Sunday Public Ledger, Philadelphia. Passing it on through the daily papers, Lilla Erich, Supervisor Domestic Science, Minneapolis Public Schools. Writing for the family of low-cost standards, Florence Nesbit. Field Supervisor, Juvenile Court, Chicago. Printing in response to requests, Elizabeth McCracken, Editor of Home Progress, Boston, Mass. A newspapers column for ten weeks, and what came of it, Mrs. R. J. Deachman, President Calgary Canada, Consumers' League. 12:30 p. Old fashioned singing school, led by Sarah Buchanan Huff. — Moving pictures An Indian Pageant as presented by students in the New York State College of Agriculture. Business meeting, committee reports and election of officers. Room 245, polls open eight to twelve. Auto parties, picnics, and walking trips to nearby lakes, groves, glens and falls will be arranged. — Conference The budget. Dr. Benjamin R. Andrews, Chairman, Teachers' College, New York City. HOME SCIENTISTS IN CONVENTION. 565 Cost of living of college students, Sarah MacLeod, Pratt Institute,, S. Maria Elliott, Simmons College. The clothing budget; Ethel Ronzoni, University of Missouri. Studies of families in narrow circumstances, Winnifred Gibbs, Secretary Association for improving conditions of the poor. New York City. Budget studies, Mary Hinman Abel, Baltimore, Maryland. Sunday, July 2. 9:00 a. m. Breakfast in the woods on the shores of Beebe Lake. 3:00 p. m. Community meeting —The home and the community, Cornell University, Music led by Sarah Buchanan Huff. 6:30 p. m. Group meeting at supper in the Home Economics cafeteria. OFFICERS OF THE ASSOCIATION. President, Martha Van Rensselaer, Cornell University. Vice-Presidents, Marion Talbot, University of Chicago Benjamin R. Andrews, Teachers Col- ; lege; Abby L. Marlatt, University of Wisconsin. Secretary, Alice P. Norton, Chicago. Treasurer, William Morse Cole, Harvard University. The problem which marked the early sessions of the convention was the inadequacy of the modern methods for reaching the woman in the city and the woman in the country. The text books and teachers in home science have cut their cloth to fit only the well-to-do house-wife in urban communities. The primitive environment and severe domestic limitations of the home-maker on the farm, has not been taken into account by the framers of institute curricula. Much crisp discussion and some enlightening suggestions were made along these lines at the convention. It was decided that school plans were too elaborate for the ordinary woman of today, while the usual run of recipes given by the teachers were both too expensive and too complicated. Novelty has been emphasized at the expense of practicability. In the sessions devoted to the value of press work as a part of home science teaching, there were such renowned names as: 
 Alice P. Norton, Editor of the Journal of Home Economics; Anna Barrows; Edward W. Bok, the famous Editor of the Ladies' Home Journal, Arthur T. Vance, Editor Pictorial Review, Mary Avery, Elizabeth McCracken, Grace R. Wilmot while — the whole session was presided over by the famous Mary Hinman Abel. The prevailing note of this session was the practical inability of graduated home science teachers to give written expression to practical thought on paper, concerning their own chosen profession. It was urged that pupils shall not only be taught how to compose a pudding and how to build a menu, they must also learn how to dictate a business letter and how to write a newspaper article, which will reach the masses. Another impressive topic, and one which I felt of paramount importance to us and our home conditions, was the need of regulating women's costumes. The speaker who dealt with this topic emphasized the necessity for standardizing the business costume of business women. Such style modifications as might occur through the passing seasons should not exceed the changes made in the business apparel of men. Another excellent suggestion was that women and girls everywhere should be made to feel the folly of wearing afternoon or evening costumes on the street, or entering a drawing-room in a business suit, when possible to avoid doing so. Still another suggestion, which was also wisely made, dealt with the combined efforts to standardize dress-cutting systems. Hundreds of women are wasting thousands of dollars in buying and selling inadequate and unsightly systems of dress-cutting and pattern-making. The schools can practically handle the situation if a united effort is made to use a universal system throughout the United States. In dealing with the food question, the school luncheon was taken up, but the most helpful thought given in this session, for our people here at home, was the story of an exchange depot conducted in Florida, and so managed that the women could bring their handiwork, and receive in exchange fruit preserved and dried in various ways by other women also bread and other food; stuffs were kept by this exchange for the convenience and use of their patrons. Home canning clubs were recommended and described. We shall have more to say about this later on, in our Home Science Department. There was an attendance of nearly three hundred active, interested women including social settlement workers, teachers and journalists. Not only were the general sessions crowded, but each group meeting was both attractive and well attended. This subject of Home Science, which a few years ago had — — but two sides sewing and cooking is now sub-divided into many important and differing phases of the work. Interspersed with the many interesting meetings were excursions to scenes adjacent to Cornell University. The breakfast which was given on Sunday morning in the woods, was served cafeteria fashion, a decided innovation in however, picnics. None of the Utah party attended this affair, preferring to rest and attended services on the Sabbath day. The little playlet "Omelet and Oatmelia," was a delightful feature offered for the benefit of the Richards Memorial fund and earned a substantial contribution to that laudable enterprise The visit to the "George Junior Republic" was the most impressive of all the entertainment offered to us. This remarkable experiment in community life for young boys and girls certainly brought to our minds the possibilities of the United Order, when this people shall be ready to adopt that divine plan. The boys and girls are taken from all grades of life-from the richest families and from city slums, incorrigible boys and girls, idle boys Good boys, mischievous boys, as well as homeless boys are all helped, modified and wisely taught in this George Junior Republic. One of the most interesting phases of the whole convention was the old fashioned singing school. The songs were the old, popular ballads of half a century ago, and the music and words were thrown on a picture screen, enabling everyone in the vast audience to see notes and words at a glance, The songs were illustrated on the screen with suggestive scenes, for instance,— "My Old Kentucky Home," and "Old Black Joe," had a picture of the cabin under the trees. The flag and the darkies picking cotton was accompanied by a huge flag waving in the "Flag Without a Stain" feature. In addition to this attractive and novel feature, the leader of the class, Sarah Buchanan Huff, was dressed in old fashioned costume. Her assistant, likewise, being robed in the flowing skirts of 1830 I was much impressed with this and hope to see some results at home from the suggestions made there. The hospitality of Cornell was generous in the extreme and the committee who had charge of the entertainment, acquitted themselves with honor to themselves and delight to all the guests and delegates. The officers of the Association were continued with Miss Van Rensselaer as President until a new election can be effected. In the election for a Chairman of the Extension Work Committee,I was happy to cast my vote for our Utah Domestic Science expert, Miss Gertrude McCheyne, although she was unable to be present herself. While our party was in this beautiful city, we were house guests, for the whole five days, of Dr. Earnest W. Schoeder, Professor in charge of the famous Hydraulic Laboratory of Cornell University He, with Mrs. Cummings and her daughter, Elma, 
 extended to us the most cordial hospitality. Their auto was at our disposal night and day, and any time, we were left free from our many engagements, was used by our generous hosts in private entertainment. Dr. Schoeder is a close, personal friend of Professor Richard R. Lyman of this City. They worked side by side for several years in the graduate school of Cornell University. MAIN QUADRANGLE OF CORNELL UNIVERSITY With Cayuga Lake in Distance. We were also entertained at dinner at the home of Professor and Mrs. C. L. Crandall. Professor Crandall was, until his retirement one year ago, under the Carnegie Foundation, Professor of Railroad Engineering at Cornell University. While in Ann Arbor, Michigan, Professor C. T. Johnston, of the University of Michigan, with Mrs. Johnston, took us for a long automobile ride, and arranged a delightful evening for us at their hospitable home. Professor Johnston is another friend of Professor Lyman's they have been classmates during under- graduate days at the University of Michigan. NOTICE Stake Presidents will kindly confer with Magazine agents before coming to October Conference, and bring as large lists as possible for our coming year's subscription. New blanks and receipt books will be supplied at this office. Janette a. Hyde, Business Manager.