mothers of Israel these unsatisfactory conditions and at least making an attempt at some kind of reform. II. The Servant ? A Definition. Why do we so object to the term "servant?" The greatest servant ever born was Christ who is the servant of every man that ever lived. It is a beautiful thing to serve with love and intelligence, or to be served. The real meaning of the word "servant" as used in connection with housework, should be: one who is learning one's job so that one may be master when it is learned. It is just another name for an apprentice when used in this sense. ? What's in a Name? If the name servant hurts one's pride, let us choose another word: maid, household aid, home helper, or housekeeper. Any of the above names are as dignified as clerk, typewriter, or nurse, or any other, if only we think so. ? The Lesson of Democracy. One must not forget that in this free country one man is just as good as another, if he does his work as well and keeps himself as honest, virtuous, and industrious. No profession on earth requires greater intelligence or more real brain power than does the successful house profession. ? The Lesson of Christianity. The man who has the true Christian spirit can never feel himself superior to another man because of mere birth, or social station, or wealth or any artificial man-made condition. There is no class distinction between real Latter-day Saints. III. Kinds of Service. By the Job. ? It is not unusual to hire help for a certain kind of GUIDE LESSONS. 593 work, or for the fixed period of time such as at threshing time on the farm, or to do the spring or fall sewing, or for the week or month of a woman's confinement. Such help is usually not hard to get and is fairly satisfactory. ? By the Day. Some women prefer to work by the day at laundry work or heavy housework. This is generally a satisfactory kind of help to get, and to give, and it may be that the hired housework of the future will have to be done in just this way for there are advantages on both sides. ? General Housework. The most unsatisfactory kind of houseservice is that performed by the general maid of all work, and in the small home where only one maid is kept. It is also the hardest kind of work to do and to get done. Such work is supposed by the employer to begin before the family is astir in the morning; it lasts all day and into the evening; and it includes the performance of all kinds of work known to the home. By the very nature of things, this kind of service will remain unsatisfactory until it is more intelligently systematized. IV. Imperfect Standardization. There are many reasons why housework and its performance by others outside of the home has not reached the degree of efficiency found in other occupations of men and women. ? Causes. The first reason for this lack of standardization is the fact that housework itself is in an unorganized condition. Housework Unorganized.? Not until recent years, have thinkers and educators generally, found it necessary to study housework as a profession. ? Long Hours. By very necessity, the performance of housework includes long hours for mistress and maid, as well as many and exacting kinds of labor. Only when the housework is very carefully organized, can there be found any time for recreation or rest; and organization requires careful thought, intelligence, and a trained intellect, whether that training come from experience or through schools. No Standard. ? One reason why housework is so unorganized is that no one has establised a standard of work. Mrs. A. requires her housework to be done in a certain manner; Mrs. B. wants her work done in an entirely different way The bewildered girl thus finds herself at the mercy of an unregulated, whimsical, domestic standard as varied as are the noses on the faces of her changing mistresses. ? Social Ostracism. Another reason for dissatisfaction is that the one who does housework for pay is placed in a social class by herself. Even the unions ignore her. Not only is she in a different class, but in a lower class, unfortunately. So that a healthy, intelligent woman, will try almost any other kind of work before turning to her last resort ? housework. Nowadays, if a woman has brains to do anj'thing else, she will refuse to do housework. ? Personal Happiness. Most girls realize that their girlhood comes but once, and because of the very swiftness of its passing, they long to have some pleasure mixed with their daily toil. This is not possible unless the housewife plans carefull3r and attends sympathetically to the girl's social needs and desires. ? Lack of Training. The next reason for this condition is a result of the two previous conditions. It is really lack of training on the part,of those who "hire out." Many of them have had very little experience in the doing of housework in their own homes. For one 
 reason or another, the girls are tired of living at home; or the parents want them to earn a little money; or the girls themselves feel they need a little more money, and with money as the only incentive, these ignorant, untrained girls go out into the active occupation of housework to earn their living. Then these unprepared maids expect to earn good wages while they are really learning their trade. No mistres feels satisfied with such service; as soon as the girl has learned her trade, she is ready to marry, or go where she can earn bigger wages. ? No Laws or Traditions to Protect Employer or Employed. In this country there are no laws to protect the mistress or the maid. In the older countries of Europe, the girl has back of her a law that protects her in any position where she is doing her duty. The same is true of the mistress. No maid can leave her employment as long as she is doing the right thing by the girl unless the girl gives the mistress at least one month's warning. Such a condition as a girl leaving over night if she so desires, is unheard of, for no one will employ a girl unless she comes with a good recommendation from the last place in which she worked. This excellent custom gives a sense of responsibility both to the working girl, and to the woman who pays the wages. The domestic service in this country would be much more satisfactory if there were laws to protect both parties in the contract. May it not be possible to institute such laws in our own state. The Remedy. ? The remedy for all of these unsatisfactory conditions may be found in a united action by all concerned. The housekeepers themselves, must make the first move, and as a neighborhood or as a class, standardize housework. They must organize their work so that girls need not have to work overtime. They must institute a change in the social position of the hired-girl, the mistress herself feeling a social equality with her maid, even if she fortunately possess superior age and intelligence quality. She must also provide time and opportunity for her maid to have some pleasures. Mothers who want their girls to earn a good part of their living by housework, or to prepare for future domestic service, must make each girl share in the different processes of housework, and let the girls rotate so that each learns to do all of the processes equally well, instead of keeping one girl on one certain phase of housework which she prefers, and which, therefore, over-emphasizes her efficiency. She v/ill also give each girl some experience in the marketing, and in those deeper, intricate problems that make or mar a good housekeeper. She will train her girls to adopt the budget system. She must regulate and systematize her own household labors, putting all her kitchen, house-cleaning and financial problems on a sound, well-regulated business basis. Finally, both mistress and maid, mothers and daughters, must unite in suggesting and securing legislation on this vexed problem. ? The Lure of the Shop. Parents and mistresses who hire girls for housework generally, must seriously regard the seenrng advantages of the shop work for girls. It is often next to impossible to find help in certain large towns because the girls all prefer to go to the factory or the shops. Why is this? Is it because those who need home help, do not try to make the home a worthy rival to the shop? There is an old saying that you can drive a horse to water, but you can't make him drink. It is equally true that you can't make independent, human beings do what they don't v/ant to d,o. One thing you can do is to create good desires and right views of domestic life during the formative period of a girl's life. That is the problem that confronts the mothers in their homes today. How are you going to inake the girls GUIDE LESSONS. 595 enjoy housework? Until that is accomplished, these unfortunate and haphazard ideals and methods will persist. Girls will go where they have regular hours, a chance to wear clean, nice clothes, and at least ? ? one whole real Jioliday the Sabbath to themselves. The Farm Home Pkoblem.? Those who find it difficult to get sufficient help in farm homes must be especially vigilant in providing seme pleasurable offset to the isolation and the necessarily long hours of work on the farm. They must use their wits and think of advantages and compensations which they can offer to the girls who come to help them, even if it means the purchase of a small phonograph and the promise of social recreation every evening if work is well done. Two or more homes could co-operate in such schemes and plans to lesson the drudgery of long hours and heavy work. A" little advertising in the city papers of the fact that in a certain farming community, certain healthful pleasures are provided for those who work there might prove money well invested, especially if expenses be shared by a half dozen families. It is especially necessary that farm mothers make their work more attractive to their own daughters than in the city lure, which draws so many pleasure-loving girls. V. The JNIistress. The mistress who engages help may well expect certain things uom any one who enters her home for wages. They are: Good Service. ?She has a right to expect that the one whom she._mplcys iscapable of earning every cent of the money the girl demands as wages. The girl should know her housekeeping businesi either from home experience, from study and practice in schools, or from good training in other homes; else how can she expect to be paid wages? ? Simple Honesty. That a woman employing help in the home should expect absolute honesty, need not be dwelt on. Not onlyhonesty as regards the propert}' of others but honesty in the matter of ? giving honest time and of doing honest work not work that is well done on the surface but untouched in the corners. A m'stress may i^ghtfully insist that the maid possesses a sense of honor and responsibility in the performance of all her work and in all her words, as she, herself, practices honesty towards the maid; this much and no more. An undependable servant is worse than useless. Interest in the Work and in the Home. ? A mistress may also expect that the one who enters her employment makes herself interested in the work,of the home and in the members of the family. No one can do good work unless there is a feeling of absolute lo^-alty to the work performed as well as to the employer. This is true in every ? occupation of man it is especially true in housework. ? Concessions. No problem on earth has only one side. H a mistress expects certain things of those working for her, she must concede equal rights and privileges to those employed by her. ? Practice of the Golden Rule. The mistress of the home must be willing to understand and practice the golden rule. The good mistress always has a lively imagination. She is able to put herself in the position of the one who works for her and is willing to treat thf worker as she would like to be treated, if she were in the position of the servant. H a woman is willing to do this, she is more than apt to succeed in the employment of help in the home. A good mistress must realize that her helper is some other woman's daughter, and as she would like her own daughter to be treated in similar circumstances, she must be willing to treat the girl who comes into her home. A little love and expression of appreciation will do more 
 toward making the girl willing to work with vigor and determination tlian will all the harsh w,ords and misunderstandings in the world. An attempt to supplant in a way the mother love that the girl is missing in being away from her own home will do much to bring out of the girl the very best that is in her. Another thing that the wise mistress understands is that every human being needs companionship. The thoughtful mistress will make it possible for the girl to have the right kind of companionship when her work is done, even though she may not have it during the period of work. This is often difficult if there is a feeling of class distinction in the home ? if the daughter of the house is considered socially better than the maid who comes to work. But even though that feeling exists, the mistress must encourage the girl to have the right kind of friends come to see her and provide some way of making right acquaintances. This is only fair to the girl because girlhood comes but once and the friendships of girlhood are those which often last the longest in life. Another thing that the mistress must keep in mind in order to be perfectly fair to the girl who works for her, is the fact that the girls of today are the mothers of tomorrow. No woman wants the responsibility of having urged the girl to w,ork at periods which may cause serious injury to her body. Sympathy for the girl will enable the mistress to instill into the unformed mind truths that will be helpful to her when she grows into mature womanhood and undertakes the great responsibility of life. Mother-Talks will be a great factor in drawing the girl to the woman for whom she works, and will rouse in the girl more interest in her tasks, while instilling gratitude and affection for her mistress, and the members of the family for whom she works. Aside from sentimental considerations, such a course is fair, just and wise, and brings marketable returns. Competition with City and Shop. ? The wise mistress understands that her home and the work of it is in keen competition with the life of the big city or with the shop or factories in her town. The wise woman will offer corresponding inducement for domestic service. She must think of ways to make her work pleasant; making the girl so happy that she will prefer life in the home to hard and constant labor in the shop or the big city establishments. This truth applies to the mother with daughters in the home. Such little devices as providing a prize for the one who shells the most corn or who picks the most peas or peels the onions for the pickling is perfectly legitimate. One niight arrange a picklijig afternoon, and let the girl invite young people to help her and then at the end have ice cream or cake; or let them make candy or something that will make these hard periods of housework pass over with some pleasure to remember them by. In such ways only will the mistress be enabled to make home work m.orc desirable than the work to be found in the shop and in the big city. VI. The M.md's Point of View. If wehave daughters whom we desire for various reasons to_ go out world and live in other people's homes to earn their living, in the or to learn things that they may not have the chance of learning at h.ome, let us consider the maid's point of view of the situation, for there are two sides to every question. ? Consideration of Advantages. Thereare many reasons why housework is the very best occupation for girls who are anxious to earn money for any reason whatsoever, or who are undertaking to earn their own living before they become mothers and have a home of their own. The Question of Health.? There is no occupation known to