GUIDE LESSONS. 597 women that ofifers more inducements for the preservation of health than does housework if it is rightly done. No woman should disregard this fact in the training and care of her girl. No gymnasium ever equipped ofifers a better chance for health-giving exercise than does a medium-sized home or the large home, if it is organized so that no one has to do more work than can be done well. If women would dress for housework as they dress for the gymnasium, wearing comfortable shoes, comfortable clothing, and work always in rooms that have a free current of air, they would get through their work that constant change of occupation that is so necessary to bodily poise. The tasks rotating agreeably, and every muscle, nerve, and the whole intelligence healthfully engaged. With wisdom and proper understanding, housework can be made attractive as well as physically helpful, and this is an advantage that should not be lightly considered. ? The Question of Progression. There is no work with the possible exception of teaching, that gives a girl the chance to learn things that are going to be of benefit to her in her after life as does housework. This is decidedly not true of many of the occupations that women choose today. Tf a woman is working in a comfortable, progressive, intelligent home, she is learning all the time something that she can use to her advantage when she gets a home of her own, and nothing that she learns, if it is well done, need be unlearned. This is a great advantage because life is so short and time is so precious. It is true that a certain amount of drudgery must be done, but there is no profession on earth that does not have its drudgery; housework is no exception to this. The drudgery must be performed intelligently and imder as favorable conditions as possible that it may be mimimized instead of exaggerated. Even dish-washing can be pleasant if performed under healthy conditions in a clean, pleasant kitchen, and especially with some good companion. No girl objects to washing dishes in her chum's kitchen. It is only at home that she objects to this. Now mothers, what is the reason? ? Protection. In the case of a girl forced to earn her living as well as of the girl who may choose housework, there is no better occupa^ tion because of the protection that it gives the girl. In most of the town occupations, in shop work, etc., girls are exposed to more or less temptation to indulge in the lesser evils of vanity and extravagance, as well as in those of greater magnitude. Bad men and bad women are to be found everywhere in the city and the town, and it must be understood by girls that if they take upon themselves the responsibility of seeking service with non-"Mormons," these evil conditions too often exist, and they have to meet all kinds of temptations. Ir the Mormon home, on the other hand, they are and should be, protected, shielded by wise women, and given a chance to form the right kind of companionship. ? Wages. In no other occupation is a woman able to begin her work with so little outlay. In beginning any kind of business, one has to spend a certain amount of money, more or less, in order to learn the profession. The very nature of home life makes it possible for a girl to learn domestic service in her own home usually, so that she can begin her waee-earning work really without any capital, except that of experience. The better the experience, the better the capital and the more wages she can demand. There are few professions of women that are better paid even though it does not seem to be true on the surface. A girl who earns three dollars in a home js really better paid than a girl who earns six dollars in a shop. The girl in the shop, unless she happens to be living in her own home where her parents are willing to take care of her, has to pay her board, dress 
 herself well, take care of her laundry, and all of her incidental expenses, so that a great percentage of her six dollars goes out for necessary living expenses. In housework, the wages that she earns is almost entirely clear profit and a big part of it can be set aside as savings. The dress of the woman doing housework is much less expensive than that of the w.oman who works in the shop, for nice clean gingham dresses are used most of the time and only one or two dresses annually are necessary to wear to social affairs, whereas in the shop, the wear and tear of clothes and of shoe leather, of hats, of coats, and all,of the different kinds of clothing far exceeds any domestic need. Not only are the demands more, but the girls who are in town all the time feel that they must dress better and better, and there is more temptation to spend their money instead of saving it. So that from CA'ery point of view, the moderate wages paid in housework really is to the advantage of the girl who performs this kind of work. This is a consideration that is seldom thought of and yet should be well understood by the girl who intends to earn her living. It is also true that if a girl is the least bit capable she has a chance to keep her job indefinitely, for there are many homes in which competent help is needed, and the mistress is only too glad to find a girl who is willing to work until a possible chance comes to make a home of her own. This is not true of the other occupations. Changes come very rapidly, and often unexpectedly, and the girl often finds herself out of a job for one trivial cause or another. VII. Rights of the Maid. There are certain requirements that every self-respecting girl should make of her mistress. When first entering a home, she should have a good, yet modestly conducted talk with the lady and have a mutual understanding of what she is able to give and what she expects in return from her mistress. In the first place, she has a right to demand a clean, comfortable room. This is worth a great deal and if it cannot be provided, one is perfectly justified in demanding more wages or some other advantage to offset the handicap. She should be given, above all things, a good, comfortable bed. It is really to the advantage of the mistress to have the working girl sleep well, for if she doesn't, she is in no condition to work hard during the day. The pleasanter the room can be made, the easier it will be for the maid to remember the interests of the family who lives there. ? Definite Hours and Holidays. As far as possible there should be an understanding of the nature and kind of work required. The girl should demand definite hours and certain holidays, if possible. The hours should not be too long. If, for some family reason, the work m.ust be done at six o'clock in the morning, and the girl must, of necessity, rise one-half or one hour before this, she should be given a chance to rest in the afternoon. The eight-hour law may be a little short for the performance.of housework, because all tasks are not equally severe. No human being should be required to work from five o'clock in the morning until nine o'clock at night without some chance of recreation, pleasure, or rest. If for any reason a working day must be made this long, some of the following days must be made shorter to compensate for it. It is no argument to say that the mistress keeps long, hard working hours. That is entirely outside of her business arrangement with hired help. A girl must also insist upon having an afternoon for herself, that she may do the personal things her life requires. She should have some chance to go down town to d,o her shopping, to visit a friend, or to indulge in some of the pleasures that her busy life seems_ to forbid. This afternoon should be her very own and under the wise. GUIDE LESSONS. 599 indirect oversight of the mistress may be spent in any way that the girl chooses. Whether or not a free Sabbath is given to the girl, she has a right to demand at least half of that day that she may be enabled to go to church if she chooses, or to have a visit with her friends, or to have another break in the routine of the week. Very few businesses demand their workers to be on hand the seven days of the week, and until housework is planned so that more freedom is given the worker, the supply of trained, maids will decrease. If the Sabbath cannot be gi^ en, then the mistress should supply a greater wage or some other inducement that will counter-balance this disadvantage. ? Provision for Companionship. TheJ girl may also require some chance of forming the right kind.of acquaintances. She should be provided with some suitable pla^pe where she may ask "her friends to come and that place should not be the kitchen. If there is no other available room in the house, then some arrangements must be made to have a certain evening when she may have the use of the dining room, or sitting roiom. No girl should receive company in her bedroom, unless very careful supervision is maintained. If her bedroom is made up with a couch into a day sitting room, and there is a chance for other members of the family to have free entrance, then there may be no objection to the girl using her own room for company. No girl likes to have her sole opportunity for companionship with young men to be confined to hanging over th^ gate or walking the dark streets. No good girl wants to meet young men on the street. If she has a gentleman friend, and is proud of him, she naturally wants to introduce him to others whose good opinion she prizes. This is natural and should be encouraged. If the girl has no chance to make and keep the right kind of friends and thus falls into temptation and sin, the responsibility belongs just as much on the mistress as on the poor little girl who has not been taught the great meanings of life. ? Respect of Associates. The girl may also demand and expect the same amount of respect in the performance of her work that any woman gets in the performance of any other kind of work. It takes _a great deal of brain power to become a successful home-maker, and if a house-worker respects herself, she will be in better condition to demand the respect of others. The girl should have a clear understanding of her own rights and limitations, that she may n,ot be mistreated cither by her mistress or by any member of her employer's family. Children, particularly, must be taught to respect a maid, and the wise girl will give such kind and respectful treatment to the family that she may demand the same in return. She has a right to resent jeers and ill-timed jokes, insulting references to herself or her work, as v?'ell as the least attempt at familiarity on the part of any male member of the family. She must neither give nor take insults. ? Concessions. Since this is an occupation of choice, the girl must he willing to give as much as she hopes to receive. This is merely a law of economics, and is practiced in all the occupations of men and women. ? The Girl Must Understand Her Business. Many ignorant girls, scorning work at home, expect to be paid wages in a strange house for the privilege,of learnmg how to work. In no other occupation of life would this condition be tolerated. A person pays ior the privilege of learning his job. An apprenticeship in any trade is paid for in some way. The teacher is the one who should be paid. The girl must be frank and state clearly that she is or is not well-trained, and if she is just learning, she must be willing to take lower wages, at least until she has gained some proficiency in the work. Another thing she 
 must be willing to let the mistress or the one who hires her be the judge as to whether or not she is earning the wages she asks. For no one knows better than the employer the grade of work that is being done. ? Mutual Understanding of Golden Rule. The girl must know that the ideal practice of the golden rule is a mutual arrangement. She must treat her mistress as she, herself, would expect to be treated, were she in turn a mistress and have work done for her. She would not tolerate rudeness or insolence or lack of interest in work. She must be equally willing to give her best efforts while she is performing her noviate. If she respects and honors her mistress, she may, in turn, demand the same treatment from her mistress. She must feel that domestic work is in reality a profession, and intelligent women take a pride in doing it well. If she can't do this she is not earning the full measure of her wage. If she does do it she may rest assured that any fair-minded woman will recognize her intelligent desire and recompense her in proportion to the degree of efficient service given. No one can do work well if they despise work. They must take an interest in housework; take a pride in doing it well or else it can never be done well. For the work that a woman undertakes to do reflects her own personality. If a girl teels that her mistress does not understand her or is unjust in her treatment, she is perfectly justified in asking for a talk with her mistress and telling her candidly and earnestly how she feels and if she is at fault and in what way. If this give and take, this mutual understanding is a living thing, the two will work congenially together and the whole domestic machinery will be more perfectly adjusted. It is always better to talk things out than to carry a grievance and let it create a final cataclysm. ? Brain Worth More than Muscle. There is one thing that every worker must understand, and especially is this true in housework. The great thing demanded of the workers today is not alone muscle power, but brain power. In no kind of work performed by humanity is there a greater need of the exercise of intelligence than in the performance of housework. The wages that a girl commands is measured, after all, by the degree of brain power she puts into her work. The world doesn't want mere muscle work today. This is particularly true of the home. The day of letting the hand do the heavy tasks of sweeping, dusting and washing and ironing and cleaning while the brains are off on a vacation is past. Machinery does so much now that we must keep ahead in order to keep abreast. The performance of every task reqires the full attention of the worker if the work is to be well done. One thing, however, must be understood; a ten-doUar-a-week girl can get her price in any occupation. ? Fine Sense of Honor. A girl must cultivate a fine sense of honor in going into a home to perform the work thereof. She must be able to measure values and respect the possessions of the home as well as the time that she uses. She must feel a keen sense of honor as regards her promises. Her word must be as good as her bond; if it isn't, she is a poor and cheap worker. If a girl is not dependable; if she can't be trusted to work when alone; if she has no sense of responsibility regarding the work that she is doing; if she can't be trusted with other people's property, or if her word may be doubted, then she may be sure her services are valueless to every one, particularly in the home. ? Note. The class leader may formulate questions on this lesson, or invite open discussion of the points given. ? ? Z. C. M. I. School Shoes For Boys Are made for service they will keep the boys' feet warm and dry. Z. C. M. I. ALLOVERS are the ideal The Food for play garment Your Family for boys and girls. Cheap, Artificial things always have their day. A fancy breakfatt food serviceable. may be popular for a short time, but since health is priceless, nearly everyone turns, sooner or later, back to nature for pure, unchanged foods, like ROLLED OATS There is nothing artificial about these oats, just the biggest, delicious oats that can be produced in this mountain country, are rolled to a flakiness and a palatability that delights the whole family. You do not have to coax the boys to eat "SUNRIPE" Rolled Oats. Contains the Strength of the Hills" Try Sunripe Koffe-et for a refreshing, healthful drink. "Better than ever." Z.C.M.I. School Shoes for Boys. Are made for service?they will keep the boys feet warm and dry. Z.C.M.I. ALLOVERS are the ideal play garment for boys and girls. Cheap, serviceable. Travel more Locally at Little Cost via Oregon Short Line. Half fare Sundays slightly more Saturdays-Mondays. Ask your Agent for Details. Utah Cereal Food Co. OGDEN, UTAH EVERY RELIEF SOCIETY SHOULD HAVE "The Utah Genealogical and Historical Mapairine," which is the organ of the Genealogical Society, and contains genealogical matter of great value in the study of Relief Society lessons. Issued quarterly. Price $1.50 a year. To members of the Genealf gical Society, and to Relief Societies, $1.00. Send subscriptions to GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY OF UTAH, 60 East South Temple, Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Utah's Most Popular Music House" SHEET MUSIC 10 CENTS *lf by mail, add I cent a copy for pottage) CENTURY EDITION ii not printed from type plates but by an expensive lithograph process, thus eliminating all imperfedions. Every copy is perfect in itself and is printed in full size sheet music paper of finest qualitv. Prominent English and American Teachers and Musician the world over take special pride in recommending ARCHITECTURE this justly celebrated By GEO. M. ALLEN edition. is in Mrs. Home's Art Book, FREE CATALOG OF DEVOTEES AND THEIR SELECTIONSSHRINES. Send to this office or 1800 to Mrs. Alice Merrill Home, 4 VOCAL AND INSTRUMENTAL (Mention this Magazine) Ostlers Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1 9 1 6 are assigned. PRICE $1.26 POSTPAID "OLDER THAN THE STATE OF UTAH Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing announces the opening of its thirteenth school year on Monday, September 18, 1916. School term, 8 months. ? Course A Entrance fee for the course in Obstetrics, which ? includes nursing and invalid cooking ^$50.00. ? Course B Entrance fee for course in Nursing, which includes invalid cooking $25.00. ? Course C At intervals during the school year, lectures on Public Health, Prevention and Treatment of Diseases, Etc., will be given by eminent physicians, surgeons, and specialists. No charge. ? Course D ^A class in Invalid Cooking will be conducted by experts; no extra charge for students taking other courses. Instructor, DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS. For further information write to General Secretary, Amy Brown Lyman, Room 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters ?and sons?to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls,prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agriculiaral College of the State of Utah. Bead Neck Chains 75c to $300. Come in and look at them. If you live out of town write about them. We show them in Imitation Pearls, Real Pearl, Jet, Amber, Coral and Gold. Bead Chains are always appropriate, always in good taste. McCONAHAY' the Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City VISIT CALIFORNIA IN AUTUMN TIME TRAVEL VIA The Standard Line of the We^ Safety, Service, Scenery, Comfort, Courtesy and Convenience Are of Paramount Importance to Our Patrons For Information Call On F. E. SCOTT District Passenger Agent, Phone Was. 6900 City Ticket Office, 203 Walker Bank Bldg. SOUTHERN PACIFIC RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOVEMBER, 1916. SPECIAL ARTICLES OFF TO THE WAR Sdna Coray. FEAR IN A LiniE CHILD M Lucy Wright Snow. m6 THEIR THANKSGIVING h^f Ida Stewart Peay. Organ of the Relie.; Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29. Bishop's Bldg.,Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year?Single Copy IQc