WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	What, do as this caption implies: Ex-
pose woman! Yes, she will endure the
most critical, exposition, when compared
with man, as ruler over her. We are will-
ing to accept the compliment which is ever
due to her, and heed the poetic advice;
		“Be to her faults a little blind,
		Be to her virtues very kind;"
	for her virtues are of that historical re-
nown which justly elevate her in the
estimation of her appreciative companion.
	When in the garden, woman was master
of the situation; for a time she held the
destiny of a world in her hands, and not
until man yielded to her persuasive power
did she commit that destiny to the keeping
of her lord. Then with all the loveliness
with which man was surrounded, and even
the tree of life within his reach, there was,
to him, nothing so touching to his divine
nature, not yet humanized; nothing so
desirable in his eyes as the lovely form and
earnest eloquence of that truthful advocate
pleading for his society, to share with her
the conditions by which, and by which alone,
they could become as Gods, knowing both
good and evil, and thereby inherit those
attributes without which there is no God.
	Justice and mercy can be developed only
where good and evil are experienced: both
of which are necessary to the agency of
man.
	Woman may well be proud today of the
part she acted in the glorious panorama of
human existence, she chose her part and
played it well, to the end that man might
be, and have like knowledge as the Gods.
	To her the world is greatly indebted for
what man is, for what he has been, and for
what he may be. From the nursing babe
to the fully developed man of physical and
mental stature, of moral and intellectually
developed genius, by which he becomes the
lord of creation; woman as mother. is the
great factor and promoter of human great-
ness, in the evolutions of our race. Her
influence is stamped upon the character of
man from early childhood, and the influence
of that character is felt in society, leaving
its impress where it may be felt for the
elevation of all social intercourse, through
all the realms of human existence.

