[Column 2]

“Panchita” as she is familiarly called,
is a widow lady of about thirty years. She
married when about fifteen years of age
and one year afterward was left a widow
by the accidental death of her husband
who was one of the prominent men of the
state, he having had a wife before “Pan-
chita” and a family of several children who
love their step-mother as dearly as they
could have done their own mother. Those
children are all married and live in El Paso
and Chihuahua. They often come to Casas
Grandes to see Panchita and look out for
her welfare. Once while we lived at Casas
Grandes and one of her step-daughters
came to see her, they resolved to take a
ride over to the colony and we were invited
to go along so we fixed up the baby and
twelve year old daughter. Soon the large
old fashioned coach came bouncing up to
the door and we were soon comfortably seat-
ed and started out with the two ladies
Panchita’s brother was coachman and
seemed to know just how to manage his
four mules as they glided along up and
down the hills. The Chihuahua lady was
quite interested in informing herself about
our people. We arrived in the colony had
a good visit and returned home in the
evening; felt that we had spent a very pro-
fitable day with two refined ladies. The
Mexican ladies are very fond of their
friends and never forgot a favor; they are
very sensitive and inclined like ourselves to
be jealous. I must not forget to say that
“Panchita” is a model lady, very polite,
and esteems virtue as beyond price; she lives
with her father and mother and is their
only daughter, she generally teaches a
small private school of little girls. We
happened in the other day and were sur-
prised to see girls so small doing such hand-
some fancy work, of lace, flowers, work on
card, and canvas, it would be a credit to
any children.
	We remember next our dear friend Julia,
she is a mother to everybody and takes
pride in doing charitable deeds, she came
over here the other day to see her ‘‘com-
adre” as she calls us, and she was really
taken up with the industry and neatness of
our thriving colony, and expressed herself
as much pleased with all that she saw. We
entertained herself and daughter the best
we could, and she went away feeling quite
happy.
	We must not forget Don Victoria a dear
little beauty, the wife of Don Dolores Hi-
dalgo. Her eyes are bright and sparkling
and her pretty wavy brown hair is always
neatly combed and she is in general
neat and clean, and very intelligent and I
think that she could represent her sex and
“Paiganas” quite as honorably as most any
lady in any land; but women’s rights is
scarcely thought of in Mexico, it is wo-
man’s right here to be strictly obedient to her
husband, and as a general thing they are,
he does as he pleases and she tamely sub-
mits, that is how we account for such sub-
missive and often cowardly sons, as we
often meet among the natives; crush liberty
of thought and action out of the mothers,
and you make cowards of their sons, but
this is not the invariable rule in Mexico, for
there are many liberal-minded men in this
nation who delight in respecting women
and protecting them.
	The most prevalent error here is that 
labor is looked upon by the better class as
degrading to woman, which mistake often
leads to immorality and crime. What we

[Column 3]
want to impress upon the minds of our
Mexican lady friends is, that it is honorable
to learn some trade, or several if necessary,
so that they can gain an honorable living,
and save themselves soul and body; and
that labor is honorable, and saving to the
moral culture of the nation. Our people in
the colonies have set this example before
them and they are beginning to realize it;
we see many of the Mexican ladies making
straw hats and other articles that are use-
ful. More anon.
						S. T. Brimhall.


