[Column 1]
	MINUTES of the Ladies’ meeting held in
the 14th, Ward Assembly Hall Dec. 30,
1893, President M. I. Horne presiding.
Meeting opened by singing “O, happy
souls who pray”&c. Prayer by Sister
Mary A. Lambert. Continued by singing
"Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation."
Minutes of the last meeting read and ap-
proved. Minutes of the Annual Meeting
of the Primary of the 17th Ward, read by
Mabel Davis.
	President M. I. Horne said she had been
highly edified by hearing the minutes of
the Primary. Thought we had all been
instructed by them. Said we had a religion
that we should practice every day of our
lives. It was not enough to believe, but
that we should put in practice that belief
thought there was much had been done at
our late Conference. Business had crowded
so that she could not hardly get through
with it, and a little item now of business
that she had intended to bring before the
Conference was forgotten. She then stated
that so many of the sisters were working in
the Temple and she needed help, in visiting
the different branches and in other things
had talked to the sisters and to President
Zina D. H. Young, and had decided to call
to her aid. Sister Julia C. Howe and
Lydia D. Alder and said “We will put
them before our next Conference. They
have already traveled some, and al-
ways been ready and willing.”
	The motion to sustain these sisters as
aids to President Horne, was then put by
Counselor E. Stevenson. The vote was
unanimous. President Horne read a note
from the Salt Lake Temple Lithographing
Co. making a proposition to the Relief
Society to sell the picture of the Temple on
commission. President Horne thought the
offer a very fair one, and as we had three
months in which to canvas, thought we
might get some means for the poor in this
way. Ten Relief Society Presidents, who
were present agreed to try and do the best
they could in their respective Wards.
President Horne then called on Sister Julia
C. Howe to state how she felt concerning
the call to aid her.
	Sister Howe said, “I believe it is
customary for the brethren to express their
feelings in such cases, and thought it was
right so to do, I always felt that I did not
wish to be a drone in the hive of Deseret.
	My experience has taught me that it is-
not the mighty or educated alone who can
do the most good, but those who are will-
ing to be laborers in the vineyard. I feel to
sustain all those who are called to instruct
and go from place to place. I bear my
testimony to the good done in these meet-
ings, and much will be required of those
who have these opportunities of instruction.
I feel that this duty to which I am called
will be a pleasure, and desire to do all I
can. Sister Howe also spoke on Charity,
explained its meaning, and gave other
good instructions.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder, being next called
said, “I feel my weakness as I stand before
you sisters, yet my desire is to do all the good
I can, and help to build up God’s Church
and Kingdom on the earth. I believe I
live my religion better than ever I did, al-


