EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Salt Lake Lithographing Company
have presented to the WOMANS EXPONENT
a handsome picture of the Temple and
grounds neatly and appropriately framed,
which we consider a very pretty compli-
ment and a valuable gift. It has been
greatly admired by our visitors both stran-
gers and residents of the Territory. The
company have our sincere thanks for the
acceptable addition to the picture exhibit of
this office.

	THE historical silk map of the United
States which was made by Kate D. Barron
Buck of this City and which received merit-
ed praise, and took a medal, when ex-
hibited in the Woman’s Building at the
World’s Fair, has been photographed and
we have received a complimentary copy, at
this office; the map will be on exhibition at
the Midwinter Fair. The map is made of
silk from the dresses of the wives of the
respective Governors of the several States
and Territories. The District of Columbia
is a piece presented by the late Mrs. Harri-
son of the White House. It is a very in-
genious piece of needle work and quite
perfect in the outline and boundary of the
country, and each of its several States and
Territories as well as rivers etc.

	WE have on hand Relief Society Reports
from Davis, Box Elder, Bear Lake and Sanpete
and some other similar reports of meetings,
and will use them if possible; but our next
issue will contain special matter suitable to
send for distribution at the Midwinter Fair
in San Francisco. The ladies of the
World’s Fair Committee will be at the ex-
pense of one thousand extra copies. There
will be an article on the silk industry in
Utah by Margaret A. Caine, and one on
the music of Utah by Dr. Ellen B. Fergu-
son, also upon the Drama, a fine poem by
Lu Dalton, and other special articles, there-
fore we ask our patrons to have patience
and wait for the general association items
and reports etc. We hope to make a good
representation at the Midwinter Fair with
the books and papers of Utah women, and
especially of the silk enterprise. Mrs.
Caine who had charge of the silk exhibit
in Chicago will have entire charge of the
woman’s department in the Utah Exhibit
in San Francisco, and the women of the
Territory may have perfect confidence in her
ability and management of the matter.
She has been appointed for the position on
account of her familiarity with the silk
industry, and the executive ability she has
shown in her work, through the entire
work for the Fair, and and she received
encomiums of praise and manifestations of
esteem from the ladies in the Woman’s
Building at Jackson Park, where the silk
exhibit was located, and she was warmly
commended by the President of the Board
of Lady Managers Mrs. Bertha Honore
Palmer. Mrs. Caine will probably leave
for San Francisco by the 7th of February.


