A SAD DEATH.

Dear Sister E. B. Wells:

	OUR newly organized Stake of Wayne Co. is
now caused to mourn, for one of its bright
active officers, Florence M. Williams, daughter of
Mary Coleman and Sylvester Williams and
grandaughter of our esteemed Stake President,
of Relief Society, Jane S. Coleman; she departed
this life Nov. 17 1893, of typhoid fever, aged 15
years one month and seven days. The circum-
stances connected with her death make it sad
indeed. Her father has been dead something
over a year, and at the time of her death, her
mother and four of her brothers and sisters
were very low with the same fever, besides bury-
ing her brother George a little over two weeks
before she was taken sick. She prayed earnestly
that her life might be spared, and desired the
brethren, when a special fast was called for the
family, to pray specially for her that she might
live, to comfort her mother, and help raise her
brothers and sisters. She had great faith in the
Priesthood, the Elders remaining by her side for
several days administering, and for her comfort,
but she was called to finish her mission in the
spirit world she had so nobly begun on earth.
	She was always willing and ready to do every-
thing required of her, and so bright and cheerful
about it, that it was a pleasure to see her, indeed
she was a choice spirit sent to elevate and refine
all those with whom she associated. From time
to time she was promoted to higher callings she
never forsook the primary, but always attended,
assisted in singing, making programmes etc.
bringing rays of sunshine with her presence.
For some years she was secretary of the Sunday
School, also assisted in keeping the Ward record
was counselor to the Y. L. M. I. A., and last May
was promoted to Stake Secretary to the 
Presidency of Relief Society and though young
was competent in every respect; the spirituality
of her nature being highly developed. With the
presidency of the Relief Society visited every
settlement in the Stake, doing her part in the
organizing of new branches, as well as those
already organized. I thought while on that trip,
as her pencil would fly over the paper, surely
President Coleman was inspired to choose her
for she would be a power in Zion some day, and
so she will, with the knowledge she gained while


on earth, and the perform of her duties in the
spirit world, where no weak flesh will bar her
progress, her powers of righteousness will be
felt by all those who have the happy privilege of
associating with her, “Sweet is the death of the
righteous.”

	Weep not for her who has gone before,
	For she loved you all so dear,
	Her life was short, but her record great
	For one so young in years.

	Florence has left us but is not dead
	For the righteous, death shall not taste
	Surely that life was a righteous one,
	Who sought all to save ere ’twas to late.

	I would that all who’s summons came,
	Were as well prepared to go, 
	Whose mission was so near complete
	Whose name was spotless like the snow
***
	Safe beyond the powers of Satan
	Free from suffering sin and woe; 
	Yet prepared to dwell with Angels
	Will assist in saving those below.

	JANE S. COLEMAN, President.
	MARY E. HANKS,
