SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies’ Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th, Ward Assembly
Hall, Dec. 2nd, 1893, President Z. D. H.
Young presiding. Sang “O, my Father,”
prayer by Sister L. D. Alder, continued by
singing “Welcome best of all good meet-
ings” &c. Minutes of last meeting read
and approved. President Young gave in-
structions concerning some of the studies
given in the Temple. Desired the sisters
to take in their order the lectures on Faith
in the Doctrine and Covenants which give
an account of the descent of the Priesthood
on the earth asked the sisters to teach these
things to their children President Young
then desired Sister L. D. Alder to read the
Second Lecture on Faith in the Doc. and
Cov. which contains an account of the
inhabitants of the earth and their works,
lecture read down to the time of the flood.
	Counselor Stevenson then spoke con-
cerning meeting from time to time, thought
it necessary to educate us, and keep alive
the desire in our hearts to serve God, said
we should be charitable one toward
another, and merciful, and remember that it
is great to be a judge, made other remarks.
	Sister M. E. Kimball, bore her testimony
thought it quite plain that a Latterday
prophet was as necessary, to usher in this
dispensation as was John the Baptist to
proclaim the coming of the Savior. Spoke
of some of her early experiences, and gave
other good instructions. Sisters Annie
Wheeler, Larsen, Williams, Irvine,  Bar-
row and Mair each bore a faithful
testimony to the Latter-day work.
	Counselor E. Stevenson and Sister
Brown added some further remarks upon
the faith of the Gospel. President Young
spoke of Sister Julia McDonald desiring
that wonderful instances of healing and
miracles performed in this day be sent to 
her as she was making a book of them.
	Her address is St. George Utah.
	President Young testified that President
B. Young established these meetings and
she thought they were beautiful and would 
be a light to our souls.


Announced the Quarterly Conference to
meet in this Hall, Friday, Dec. 15th, 1893.
The meeting stood adjourned for four
weeks. Benediction by Sister Steele.
				L. D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


