NOTES AND NEWS.

	HE hath riches sufficient who hath
enough to be charitable.—Sir T. Brown.
	MY thoughts are my own possessions;
my acts may be limited by my country’s
laws —G. Foster.
	THE Scottish Labor Party, held a confer-
ence in London, Jan. 2, at which a resolu-
tion approving woman suffrage was adopted.
	IN Crittenden, Ky., a Republican county,
Miss Mina Wheeler has been elected School
Superintendent, defeating Geo. Perry,
Republican, by a majority of two votes.
	THE Committee on Dress of the National
Council of Women has lately been
strengthened by the addition of Miss Laura
Lee, of Massachusetts; Mrs. Bertha Mor-
ris Smith, of New York; and Mrs. Annie
L. Sloane, of California.
	ALEXANDER CAMPBELL said “We test
the religion, the morality, the prosperity,
the happiness, of every nation and people
by the question—how stands woman
amongst them?”
	LADY HENRY SOMERSET has been hold-
ing meetings in North Wales, where the
British Women’s Temperance Association
was practically unknown before. She has
had immense audiences.
	MISS ANTHONY, who addressed a Buffalo
audience 41 years ago on woman suffrage,
was a welcome speaker on the occasion of a 
grand suffrage rally Jan. 10th in Concert
Hall.
	THE Towoomba Chronicle of recent date
says that a deputation from the Woman’s
Suffrage Society of South Australia, visited
the Premier at Adelaide and he promised
that the government would do all in their
power to place on the Statute book a law
giving the franchise to women in such form
as the women desire it.
	GOV. WAITE, of Colorado, has promptly
appointed six women as notaries public.
They are Ada J. Coan, Ida Dannenfield
and Etta Cunningham, of Pueblo; Lillian
E. McNircher and Ellen C. White, of
Denver, and Minta C. White, of Del
Norte.
	THE Midwinter Fair Executive Gom-
mittee has made abundant provision for the
weary, and seats will be easily obtained.
Over a thousand benches will be placed
about the grounds, and nearly a thousand
chairs will be furnished for use in the
different buildings.
	A VIGOROUS effort was made in Waltham,
Mass., to elect a woman on the school
board. Mrs. Hudson secured the signa-
tures of fifty legal voters to nomination
papers for Miss Sarah Osborn, and Miss
Osborn received over 700 votes, although
she was not elected. The women will try
again next year, and hope to succeed.
	ENGLISH correspondence states that Mr.
Gladstone in consequence of the victory of
the woman suffrage supporters in relation
to the Parish Councils bill, is now compelled
to introduce a measure giving to married
women the vote now exercised by widows
and spinsters in all municipal elections,
parish, district and county Councils, boards
of guardians and all the machinery of local
government.


