IN MEMORIAM

	Died October 31, in Ogden, Utah, of dropsy
Sister Maria L. B. Goodale, widow of the late
Elder Isaac N. Goodale, aged 65 years four
months and eight days. Deceased was born in
Littleton, Grafton, Co., New Hampshire on the
23, of June 1828. In 1836 she with her parents
removed to Far West, Mo., and in 1837 she
was baptized into the church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-Day Saints, thus sharing in all the drivings
and persecutions to which the church was sub-
jected. She arrived in Salt Lake City September
19, 1847. On January 17, 1849 she was united in
marriage with Isaac N. Goodale, and in 1883 she
with her husband removed to Weber Co. and
settled in Ogden City.
	She was the mother of thirteen children, four of
whom, with her husband, have preceded her to
the spirit world.
	She was a faithful wife and loving mother and
a friend to the poor and needy, many of whom
have great cause to cherish her memory for the
service she has rendered them.
	She joined the Fourth Ward Relief Society at its
organization which took place January 18, 1879
and was at that time called to be a teacher of the
same, which office she faithfully filled until June
27, 1888 when she was chosen second counselor
in the society, which position she also honorably
filled till death removed her from our midst and
she was called by our Heavenly Father to more
extended usefulness in a higher sphere.

	Farewell dear sister! thou art gone
	From earth with all its strife;
	Thy labors ended. Rest in Peace;
	Thou hast won Eternal Life.

	Resolved, that while we feel the deepest sorrow
in the loss of our member, yet we know that our
loss is her gain, and we therefore bow submissively
to the will, of him who doeth all things well,
and say “Thy will O Lord, not ours be done.”
	Resolved, that we cherish her memory, emulate
her virtues and strive to carry out in our lives
her motherly counsels, which were so wise in
temporal as well as spiritual things.
	Resolved, that we extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy to the bereaved family, especially to the
daughters, who so lovingly tended their mother
during her months of sickness, and who still need
that counsel which a mother alone can give; that
one copy of these resolutions be presented to
them, and a copy be entered on the record of our
Society and a copy be sent to the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT for publication.
	MARIANNA STRATFORD, President,
	NELLIE BEECROFT, Secretary.


