[Column 1]
THE TENDENCY OF THE AGE.
	THE peculiar condition of the country at
the present time, on account of the financial
depression is calculated to call attention to
the why’s and wherefore’s that have
brought about this state of things, and to
those who study the matter carefully some
remedy must necessarily be sought for, and
if possible found, or some method of adjust-
ment of labor and compensation, arrived at,
or some more economic way of living and
of expending the wealth of the world,
that there may be sufficient for all.
	Women should interest themselves in 
this great problem, for really they are the
most deeply interested party, the ones who
are most likely to suffer from the disarrange-
ment of conditions that throw people out of
employment, and force them to go hither
and thither for work, or to seek their
fortunes, by sea or by land poor or other-
wise.
	It seems remarkable at the present day
that women cannot see that it would be
well for them to have an intelligent opinion
on these subjects, and at least to find out
whether the womanly element diffused,
and fine discriminating sense of justice
possessed by the sex would not help solve
these difficult questions.
	To be sure, some do see the need of wo-
man’s help in affairs of state, but the
multitude are not converted to the idea of
political equality. And yet the crisis is
coming, the truth has already dawned upon
some who had been very indifferent previous
to this Columbian year, and it is an
acknowledged fact that the trend of the en-
tire Exposition work was in the direction of
equal rights for all. Women proved their
executive ability on the Board of Lady
Managers to the perfect satisfaction of all
concerned, and it is universally admitted
that women are more economical in ex-
penditures than men. That fact alone un-
der existing circumstances would count
greatly in their favor. Not only the
National Board of Lady Managers acquit-
ted themselves creditably in their manage-
ment, but the State Boards and Lady Com-
missioners and women engaged on Com-
mittees, and last though by no means least
the great Congress of women; its manage-
ment entirely under the direction of women.
That Woman’s Congress stands pre-eminent
among all the host of Congresses that came
after. It had no precedent to follow for
such an one had never been held, the world
had not seen its like, and is it not most
absurd to refuse to such women as Mrs.

