[Column 2]
	Though she may seek for political in-
fluence it is only for the laudable purpose of
extending her field of usefulness; and her
desire for power, is only that it may be
used to abate many of the social evils to
which the race of man is in bondage today.
And as a rule we may say that her desire is
as strong, her pleadings as sincere and con-
sistent, as when she plead with her lord in
the garden of Eden; and would, to the well
being of the world today, be as fruitful to
the perpetuity and happiness of man, as it
then was to his existence.
		Then her desire was of the man,—
			Come go with me, and so shall we,
			Fulfill our God-llke destiny;
		To be alone, with good unknown:
			How worthless such a life must be!
	But now she pleads for political recogni-
tion, and says:
		Give us the power and we’ll dispel,
		The reign of tyrants born of hell:
		From men’s unblushing demon deeds,
		Her earnest soul for freedom pleads.
	While woman’s entreaties and influence
have done so much, and would do more,
still for the world of man, her rebuke is no
less a power in restraining the devotee of sin.
	Her tearful eye of entreaty may melt in-
to the keenest sympathy, the stout and
possibly the stubborn heart of man’s
kindled passions; but her stern rebuke in
defence of honor, virtue, and the right,
will fill with awe the most impassioned
enemy, that would intrude upon her peace
and domestic virtues. Her weapons of
defence are indeed powerful when contrasted
or arrayed against the impudence of the
intruder upon the sacred precincts of her
innocence, and the sanctuary of her love.
	Her will is mighty to conquer and sub-
due the wrong, while in her legitimate field 
she is encouraged to exercise it, and that
field may well be extended with safety and
profit to the race, of which she is mother,
and the guardian of their youthful
experience.
		Let woman’s grace and love combine,
		To shed a lustre o’er mankind;
		And kindle fires to ever burn
		In every heart, the truth to learn.
	With woman’s sensitive nature and
powers of comprehension; her enduring
love which like God’s, enables her to be-
come endeared even to those who may be 
the cause of her troubles; her keen ap-
preciation and discernment of both the
right, and the wrongs of life; are but
exhibitions of her nature, which is ever
tending to the development of the divine;
and which indicates her true relationship to
that divinity of which man so often proves
himself a stranger, that it may well be
said, without her, “man is not in the Lord;”
neither can he become legitimately a lord
over and in the midst of intelligent
beings.
		Man of the dust was earthly made,
		Woman from man:—a higher grade;
		Man has the stern and master mind,
		Woman is plastic, loving, kind;
		Man’s nature is to rule, have sway—
		Woman’s to love and him obey;
		Man has the burden of toil to bear.
		Woman his love and cares to share.


No earthly good was e’er designed,
Man should enjoy without her kind.
Man may desire, may know, and then,
Woman must bear the souls of men;
And man the woman still must know,
To fill his mission here below.
All earth is witness she has filled
Her mission, as by Heaven willed,
From first to last, from Eden’s bower,
Her grace and love have been her power;
By which her reign may be complete,
O’er man’s humanity and vain deceit;
And he whose soul can love her well.
May find a home where angels dwell
She led the way for man to go,
That good and evil he might know,
By which, like God he might become,
And live again with Him at home.
