[Column 2]
so appreciate the Book of Mormon more
than ever. Read it my sisters, its beautiful
testimony of the Savior to come, and
after he came on earth, and so many other
beautiful things will help you bear your
darkest hour. I have been promised that
I should meet my Saviour in our glorious
Temple that he would take me by the hand
and tell me why I have had to walk the
thorny pathway why I had such great sor-
rows, and shed so many bitter tears. Also that
He will own me and bless me. This is the
glorious day that I am living for’ let us all
strive sisters and keep these great blessings
in view. My life is on the altar, and after
my family are raised I have been promised
that I should do a great work, I feel to
respond to the call President Horne has
made upon me, and will do all I can to
assist her, and God’s work in the earth;
bore her testimony to the same.
	Sister Gardner of Pine Valley said,
“I was born and raised in this Church, and
desire to do good while I live upon the
earth. Spoke of a promise that had been
given her,when a babe in her father’s arms
namely that she would live to see the com-
ing of the Redeemer, gave an account of
the different organizations in Pine Valley,
bore a faithful testimony to the work in
which we are engaged and desired to be
faithful to the end.
	Sister Hudson of Spring City also bore
her testimony, Sister M. Y. Dougall spoke
on Charity, said it was the love we bore
the human family, urged the sisters to
strive for the spirit of the Lord, and be
faithful in all our callings and especially be
constant in our prayers, desired that we might
all meet in the celestial Kingdom.
	Sister Mary Silver and a sister in the
congregation were thankful that they
were members of the Church and desired
to do good.
	President Horne then asked the sisters if
they had not received good and been blest
in these meetings. “Here our spirits
are fed, and feel a refreshing from the Lord.
Joseph Smith was a great and a chosen
prophet. I am glad that I knew him, and
heard his voice. I rejoice that I live in
this dispensation, when so much has been
revealed and so much more is to be revealed,
I have been reading over my Patriarchial
blessings, for I have been so tried and beset
this year. I find that each one tells me,
that Satan has desired to sift me, and hedge
up my way, but I am promised that I shall
conquer that in so much as I had em-
braced the Gospel with an honest heart, if
sto[-]d true to my convictions, I should be
brought safe through; I have had so many
trials this year but I have been promised to
over come.
	Jesus said to those who overcome, he
would give them to sit down in his Father’s
kingdom, I feel that the last year has been
such an eventful one in our history. God
is working in His own way and time, I
think soon we shall see a great crisis.
	President Horne spoke of the good done at
the World’s Fair, of the Congress of women,
the visit of the choir, and many other
things, and closed by wishing us all a
Happy New Year, and adding her blessing
to all the sisters.
	Sisters Kiddle, Palmer, Price and Jane
James each spoke of the good received at
these meetings.
	Meeting was adjourned for two weeks
Sang “Satan’s Empire long has flourished
Benediction by Counselor E. Stevenson.
				L. D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


