GOVERNMENT.

	ON the day of General Lee’s surrender,
referred to in the last paper, President
Lincoln, who had been in the vicinity of
Richmond, returned to Washington and on
the 11th of April, 1865, he issued a
proclamation demanding for U. S. vessels
in foreign ports those privileges and
immunities which had been denied them
during the war, on the plea of giving equal
belligerent rights to the Republic and her
internal enemies. And on the day follow-
ing an order was issued from the War
Department stopping all drafting of recruits
for the National army and the purchasing
of munitions and war supplies, thus
making a move towards the speedy renewal
of interrupted commerce, and a restoration
of peace. The people of the nation,
rejoicing that the war was ended, began
making preparations for a grand National
Thanksgiving, when suddenly the alarm-
ing news was telegraphed over the country
that the President had been assassinated in
a theatre in Washington, by an actor
named John Wilkes Booth, on the 14th of
April, 1865; the murderer, after shooting
the President, jumped on the stage and
shouted “The South is avenged,” escaped
through a back door and fled into Virginia.
He was overtaken below Fredericksburg
and refusing to surrender, was shot by
Sergeant  Boston Corbett. President
Lincoln died on the morning of the 15th.”
His body was taken to his home in Spring-
field, Ill., and buried with all due honors.
Six hours after his death, Andrew Johnson,
the Vice-President, took the oath of office as
President of the United States, which was
administered by Chief Justice Chase. It
was believed by many that the assassina-
tion of the President was only part of a
deep laid scheme to murder the members of
the Cabinet, General Grant and other
prominent Republicans, as on the same
evening a murderous assault was made up-
on Secretary Seward by an ex-Confederate
soldier. It was a night of horrors at the
capital, and President Johnson and Mr.
Hunter, the Assistant Secretary of State,
issued a proclamation declaring that a
conspiracy had been formed by Jefferson
Davis and many other rebels and traitors
against the goverment for the assassination
of the President and Secretary of State, and
offering a reward of $25,000 a piece for their

