[Column 2]
stockings, is all very well, but when the
custom, with a large circle of grown people,
becomes imperative, it is a tax on one’s
friendship, and an unmitigated nuisance.
	I spent a few weeks at a sanitarium one
year and noticed all the nervous women,
for whom the physicians were doing their
uttermost to restore to health and comfort,
sitting in the parlors, with the thermometer
up in the seventies, working away intently
hour after hour to get some satin pincush-
ions and velvet slippers embroidered. I said
throw them to the winds and go up on
top of the house and lie down on their cots
in the sunshine. They exclaimed “What
would you do about Christmas presents?”
“Give none,” I replied, “there is no neces-
sity in the case. If you wish to remind
your friends of your existence, or to show
that you remember them, send your card
with ‘Merry Christmas,’ or ‘best wishes of
the season.” If you were my friends I
should rather get your cards than embroidery
that had taxed your vital forces and your
optic nerves for weeks in your present con-
dition.
	If you are always troubled with spasms
of emotional benevolence at Christmas time
send some meat and vegetables to the poor,
apples, nuts and candy to their children,
the money you spend in satin, silks and
bright worsteds would cheer many a fire-
side and make the children inexpressibly
happy.
	Christmas and wedding presents and
flowers at funerals have come to be such a
tax and nuisance in their extravagance and
excess that sensible people, not wishing
their friends to feel compelled to observe
the custom, now say on their cards of invi-
tation “No presents,” or “no flowers.” If
rich friends wish to send us a check for a
hundred dollars or more, we might receive
it with pleasure, as it requires no labor to
draw a check, nor privation to give of their
abundance.
	But a present of an elaborate piece of
worsted work, say of “Rebecca at the
Well” over which a dear friend had strained
her optic nerves for weeks, and inhaled
impalpable particles of arsenic from the
bright green worsteds, would give me no
pleasure. On the contrary it would be a
source of sorrow every time I looked at it.
I would not work a cat on the toe of a slip-
per for the one I love best on earth. I
would rather give or take a live cat.
	Standing in a book store a few days before
Christmas one year, I heard a wife say to
her young husband, “I must get a present
for Lucy.” “No,” said he, “I have al-
ready spent much more than we can afford.
Come, let us go.” But she insisted, and
lingered in spite of his appeals. I felt so
sorry for the man, probably a clerk on a
small salary, that I hurried away. Sup-
pose, dear ladies, you try the experiment
for one year and give no presents, and see
what a relief it is, and what a saving to
your husband’s pocket-book, as well as of 
your own time and temper. At all events
in these hard times curtail somewhat your
expenses and labors in this direction.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton.


THE South Carolina Senate has been de-
bating a bill to enable married women to
make contracts. One of the Senators
pointed out that the existing law places
women on the same footing with lunatics.
But the bill was rejected.


