[Column 2]
57. S. Main St. are offering great induce-
ments in the sale of shoes of the finest
quality as well as useful, ordinary and
durable kinds. The latest styles too in all
footwear of every kind and description can
be found in this pioneer shoe store, and the
prices arranged for the next thirty days are
at the actual Factory cost, and are without
doubt the lowest ever offered to the public
in this City. Remember friends this
business is managed by a woman and should
certainly receive the patronage of the
ladies, especially as it is a reliable and well-
managed institution.
	THE Stake Secretaries in all the several
Stakes of Zion are now reminded that it is
time to send in reports to be compiled for
the April Conference from the Relief Society,
throughout all its Stakes and also from
branches where there is no Stake organiza-
tion. These reports should be made out
for the entire year 1893, from January first
to December 31st. Secretaries please take
special notice, direct all reports to this of-
fice, and send them in just as soon as pos-
sible, that there may be no delay in the
compilation of a full and complete report of
the entire organization.
	THE LEGISLATURE of the Territory
which convened on the 9th of January
has its Committees hard at work in the
various departments assigned to them, and
everything seems tending towards the ac-
complishment of the results necessary for
the prosperity and advancement of the 
general interests of Utah. It is everywhere
conceded that able men have been elected
who are looking to the public welfare more
than personal or sectional interests, and
there appears to be very pleasant amiability
manifested by those of different party
views, which is likely to prove of greater
benefit than partisanship. The members
seem to be taking a deep interest in
educational and reform matters, as well as
the agricultural and manufacturing enter-
terprises, and home industries are receiving 
special attention.
	THE WOMAN'S TRIBUNE of Jan. 13,
Washingtan D. C. mentions the recent
death of Mrs. Lura Orms, daughter of
Mrs. Belva A. Lockwood of Washington
D. C. and her only remaining child. This
is a sad bereavment, the mother and
daughter being closely associated both in
public work and in the home. Their love
for each other was a marked feature of their
lives, and the blow must fall heavily upon
the mother, but her heroism will undoubted-
ly assert itself, and her labors for the good 
of others will help her to bear this sore
affliction. May our Heavenly Father
comfort and sustain her in this time of
trial, and help her to acknowledge his
divine will even in her great sorrow. The
funeral services were held on Monday
Jan. 8th, at Mrs. Lockwood's home and
were largely attended by the National
Woman's Press Association of which Mrs. 
Lockwood is a prominent member.	
	MRS. ELIZABETH BROOKS who died in
this City Dec. 4, 1893, at the age of 88
years (lacking a few days) was a very
worthy, as well as a very able woman, and
had made great sacrifices for her religious
faith. She was the widow of a Ship
Captain Thomas P. Brooks, and was well
to do in the world, when she embraced the
Gospel; her friends all turned against her,


but true to the principles she had espoused
she maintained her integrity and left her
native land and home in Ipswich
to come to Zion. She brought with her
the two youngest children; two sons, who
were then mates of vessels followed a few
years after, so all but one, her eldest,
gathered with the Saints. The funeral
services were held in the 20th Ward Meet-
ing House, following on the same day at
2 p. m. the funeral of Mrs. C. R. Savage.
The house had been handsomely decorated
and the beautiful flowers added to the im-
pressiveness of the occasion. The singing
was excellent, the prayers comforting, the
discourse by Elder C. W. Penrose, was ex-
ceedingly interesting and instructive, consol-
ing remarks were also made by Counselor
Druce of the 12th Ward where Sister
Brooks had resided for many years. Sister
Brooks maiden name was Harper and she
was born in Weymouth, England Dec. 16,
1805 of goodly parentage and had re-
ceived a good education for those days;
she died firm in the faith of the Latter-day
work; leaving quite a large posterity of
children, grand children and great grand-
children to labor for her kindred who have
passed behind the vail.


