[Literature—The Literature of England, Preview]

literature course will continue the study of English literature begun last year. For the teachers who are carrying on, there should be no problem of a text, since they are familiar with our source book: Woods, Watt, Anderson — The Literature of England, volume I, Scott Foresman and Company. If a beginning teacher finds that her predecessor used her own personal copy of the text, or if, for any reason, the ward has never owned a copy, she may ask that ward Relief Society funds be used to procure our text from the Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, for $4.50, $4.75 postpaid. A constant familiarity with this book is one great secret for the achievement of vital, rewarding teaching. Our goal is: "Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom, seek learning even by study and also by faith" (D.&C. 109:7). The course of study objective remains unchanged, and bears repeating: "To earn and share that high pleasure which only literature and a sense of the past can give." In working toward such an end, we hope to bring to life, and within us, the full meaning of our Thirteenth Article of Faith; we also follow the admonition of Paul, which says, "Prove all things; hold fast that which is good" (I Thess. 5:21). It has often been said, but not nearly so often heard with the true inner ear of the mind and spirit, that literature is life. We must also hear again the words of Matthew Arnold wherein he defines literature as "the best that has been thought and said in the world." 'That life is very real, and that we are alive and in the midst of it, each one of us knows. And, in harmony with the best thinkers, we think about our lives, and finally come to talk about what we think and see to be true in the actualities of daily life. While some of the greater souls among us have had keen insight into the truths of life, only very rarely have these truths been preserved in permanent form. When truths are merely talked about they are either lost entirely or become so twisted and colored in the repeating that their force is lost. To the writers of all ages who have bothered to record the truths of 484 life as they saw them, we are eternally grateful. They felt their impressions about life were not useful only for the moment and then to be discarded. And whether their thoughts have proved to be of primary or secondary value, they were considerate enough to leave them tous. | Inevitably, of course, some of these recordings—indeed the vast majority— have been produced by average minds. Writers, like readers, can only "hear what they understand." Some few have given to us eternal truths which stand the test of time forever, which help us to live and know each other better. 
This is the literature which we must always seek, and study, and then, finally, come to love. The titles for the eight lessons follow: Lesson 9. Paradise Lost Lesson 10. Paradise Regained and Samson Agonistes Lesson 11. John Dryden Lesson 12. Richard Steele Joseph Addison Lesson 13. Jonathan Swift Lesson 14. Alexander Pope Lesson 15. Oliver Goldsmith Lesson 16. Samuel Johnson and James Boswell and sbitorotane — line Literature of England Lesson 9—Paradise Lost Elder Briant S. Jacobs For Tuesday, October 17, 1950 OUR final lesson in May was concerned with Milton and his lesser works; it was also designed as an introduction to the present lesson. A review of this lesson (printed in the February 1950 issue of the Magazine) will, therefore, help to provide background and continuity for our present study, as will a scanning of the recommended background reading in our text (Woods, Watt, Anderson, The Literature of England, I, pp. 564-575, 579-580, 638-039).
More than all else in his life— perhaps as a combination of all else—John Milton was one of the greatest pioneers of the human mind and spirit. William Shakespeare his one serious competitor in the English tongue, knew mankind so well that, as he re-created their foibles and strengths, he became for the moment whatever character he was creating, and thus became all men. An attempt to construct a biography or a clear word picture of Shakespeare from his works meets with failure.
Laborious research by Shakespearean scholars has amassed some knowledge of the poet's life, but it has largely failed to give us a personality we can understand and know. The creation of such quantity and quality, the perfection of so many varied characterizations, and the genius of word usage and dramatic power, serve to hide rath- LESSON DEPARTMENT er than to reveal Shakespeare, the man. In sharpest contrast, the writings of Milton picture Milton as both a man of action and a thinker. One writer has said that in his great scholarship and ability he represents the whole range of the Renaissance —the best type of classical scholar and the best type of Puritanism— yet he is ever apparent in everything he wrote. His beliefs, born of his scholarship and inspiration, are his works. A reader cannot escape knowing John Milton from his writings. As we come to recognize the dominance of his almost fierce integrity, we are then ready to realize that the lofty vision, the high resolve, the vast industry and intellectual strength, the moral courage, and the self-sufficient independence which characterized his life are the basic characteristics as well of his magnificent, uncompromising art. In the essential Protestant spirit of purifying (or Puritanizing), Milton protested man's tendency to believe in relatively false conventions, governments, and churches rather than obeying the divine Reason within himself. In_ his lifetime, therefore, he flung his entire physical and intellectual energies into the fight against Pope and king, social convention, and moral cowardice. His goal: to achieve the right for men to exercise free will. If ever there was proof that the pen is mightier than the sword, it is Milton's Areopagitica (a red pa ji' ti ca), (see text, page 705) one of the greatest pleas for freedom of thought ever penned.
Similar proof is to be found in Paradise Lost, the pinnacle of Mil- 485 ton's genius, and hardly less than the best that can be found in English literature.
From his nineteenth year Milton had dedicated his life to writing such an epic.
After receiving his M. A.
Degree at Cambridge he spent six years at Horton in intense study. He next began a leisurely tour of Europe, thus hoping to broaden his cultural background, but returned home abruptly in 1639 when the political and religious situation in Fingland became unbearable. He gave almost the next twenty years of his life to the Puritan cause. In 1640, just before Milton began writing his forceful pamphlets defending his cause, he felt he was ready to begin his great epic work. The long list of subjects he drew up at this time is now in Trinity College, Cambridge. He had dreamed of writing an epic about King Arthur which would honor English nationalism, just as Homer and Virgil had honored their nations in epic poetry. He also was fascinated at this time with the story of Adam's fall, and composed four rough drafts, entitled the most complete one, "Adam Unparadized." He had actually started work on the Arthurian epic, but found it too large a subject. Meanwhile King Arthur's myth lad been adopted and popularized by Milton's enemies, the Royalists. Later, when the Puritan Commonwealth was repudiated by England, how could he write an epic honoring a country which had for him failed so miserably?
Just when the final version of the Adam epic was begun, we are not certain, but it was probably about 486. 1658. We do know that Paradise Lost was registered and ready for sale August 20, 1667, and that it was originally published in ten books, rather than the present twelve.
Upon publication, Milton received the first of four payments of five pounds; and when he died his widow settled for an additional eights pounds.
From the beginning the poem sold well. The curious were interested to know what a once-proud and powerful Puritan would have to say to his victorious contemporary enemies 'The bold innovations of his style and verse-form appealed to the learned and the scholarly. But its primary appeal was the fervor and sublimity of its poetic force.
Here indeed was pure poetry, the outpourings of a soul at once impassioned, unbelievabley deep and broad, and entirely free.
When the poem was first read by John Dryden, one of the most wise and influential critics and authors of the age, he said, "This man cuts us all out, and the ancients, too."
Stripped to its bare essentials, the plot of Paradise Lost is extremely simple, having its origin in Genesis. Satan, originally the first Archangel of Heaven, has been forced out of Heaven with his Legions because they fought against God for elevating Christ to the place of honor.
Hurled into Hell, he plots with his leaders to take revenge on God by visiting the newly made earth and there upsetting his glorious plan for man's future.
Satan himself makes the perilous journey through Chaos, finds Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden, and seduces her to eat of the forbidden fruit. 
She, in turn, is joined by Adam in eating this forbidden food. — As punishment, they are cast out of the Garden, but promised that all is not lost, for all will be redeemed by Christ.
Satan returns to his followers to boast of his success, but they are all transformed into crawling writhing serpents..
Upon this framework of simplicity of plot Milton built the beautiful, lavish word-structure and style which would most brilliantly give expression to his ideas, and at the same time function most compatibly with the ideas themselves. The great theme is the downfall of Lucifer, the sin and punishment of Man, and how these two tragic events are inter-related.
Milton adheres to his original purpose, to 'Sustify the ways of God to man by showing that Evil in the world came not from a Deity who is all loving, all knowing, all powerful, but from a spirit who is the essence of evil." In doing so, he reaches some pessimistic conclusions. He does not blame God; rather he blames Adam and Eve for having foolishly thrown away the chance to make a paradise of this world, of the here and now. For Milton, the greatest pathos lay, not in Eve's eating of the forbidden fruit, but in the fact that Man was not worthy of the greatest privilege God could bestow upon him: freedom of the will. Eve's great sin lay in her trivial mind.
Even after the Archangel Gabriel explained in infinite detail the vital role Adam and Eve had been given, and the tremendous consequences which hinged upon their ability to exercise freewill wisely—even then, Eve was not LESSON DEPARTMENT overly impressed.
After she had sinned, she refused to face the fact, hoping that God might even overlook what might well be a tiny error.
Thus mankind chose to enslave his reason to passion and sin; thus he was denied the peace of the Garden of Eden, denied peace both physically and mentally.(Compare Milton's concept of the Fall _ with the knowledge possessed by the Latter-day Saints. ) While the above philosophy might seem to us normal and commonplace, we need only contrast it with Catholic absolutism, King Charles' belief in the divine right of kings, or especially John Calvin's principles of "sinners in the hands of an angry God," to see how bold and original were Milton's concepts. But in Milton, as in much great literature, content is less than half: it is the literary, intellectual style, with its sustained "organ tones" and its vast, majestic scope which Milton invented for his high, unique purpose which provides for his thoughts the ideal medium of expression.
True to his classical models of Homer and Virgil, Milton used the stock epic trappings: beginning in the midst of things, the formal roll call, (text, page 656, lines 376-505) formal epithets, Homeric similies. In addition, he used many tricks of his own devising. His lavish use of geographic names not only gave the lines sonorous tone, but by choosing rivers, peaks, and cities (text, page 656) important throughout recorded history or mythology, he created the illusion of having captured in his lines something of both time and space. 487
Indeed, no other work of literature has ever had poured into its making the seemingly inexhaustible store of learning which was Milton's. The literature, legend, history and theology of ancient, medieval, and Renaissance worlds seem to have been completely at his command, as no one can escape realizing after reading Books I and II of Paradise Lost, which are found in our text. And when we recall that in composing his poem he was unable to thumb through innumerable source books for material, but, instead, blind and alone, composing it while lying in bed at night, we gain some little understanding of how thoroughly Milton had studied and digested the available learning of his day. Nor is this material tacked on to the poem, merely to display his mental powers or to decorate or illustrate. Instead, he has woven it into the very stuff of the poem itself, enriching and strengthening the character, scene, or concept which at the moment is central in the poem's development. Further, great artist that he was, Milton loved to create in the world of the imagination. In thus creating scenes of vastness and undefined mystery, vigorous characters, sensations and emotions (particularly in the first two books of Paradise Lost), Milton studded this material so richly with simile and comparison drawn from his life-long reading that he has never been equaled for flexibility, for music, nor for opulent, epic grandeur.
Note to Teachers: Technically Paradise Lost is probably the greatest poem in our language, for in the style which he created herein, now 488 known as "Miltonic blank verse," he proves himself one of our greatest poetic craftsmen. He is completely master of his medium, effortlessly manipulating whatever poetic device he is using into precisely the shade of meaning he desires to communicate.
Within the first twentysix lines of Book I we find exemplified his most frequently used devices: (1) the long, periodic or suspended sentence; (2) run-on lines; (3) free placing of pauses within the line; (4) minor metric substitutions: iambic to trochaic (See text, page 1132); and (5s) variation in accent: four or six accents to a line, rather than five. (If you feel the above material is rather technical, do not use it, since there is much else. If you know this material, its presentation to your group will enrich their appreciation. ) It is always unfair to any great work of literature to study only a few selections, thus inferring that the few can represent all. In Paradise Lost this is particularly true. While Milton's glowing visual imagination makes splendid Books I and II, the later books contain values which, although not so immediately spectacular, are equally valuable and enduring. Realizing, then, the riches we ignore, let us glance for a moment at the selections in our text. The introductory note (pp. 649- 650) and the argument to each book (pp. 650, 662) are useful in placing any specific passage in relation to the whole. If you have never read Milton's epic before, you might well find it difficult, since it is concentrated and intense. However, if you will read him aloud to yourself, you will soon learn to follow his style and pattern of thought. Books I and II are filled with passages which, if read with understanding and sufficient volume to be heard, will prove memorable to a  listening audience. Of course, you will want to choose passages to read aloud which seem most rewarding to you; the following selections are therefore merely suggested. In Book I, lines 1-26, are important, since in them Milton announces his lofty aim, and dedicates himself to achieving it. Satan's contempt of Hell and his unrest therein (44-74), and his vows of hate and ~ revenge (84-124, 242-270) early establish the intensity of his will to be free once more. The vast eeriness of Hell is described (192-238). His shield and spear are described (283-298), and the gathering of his legions whom he addresses brilliantly (299-330). The roll call of his twelve demon leaders next follows (376-505), masterful studies in characterization.
When his standard is raised it shines Like a meteor streaming to the wind. At which the universal host up-sent A shout that tore Hell's concave, and beyond Frighted the reign of Chaos and Old Night. (537-543) In the following lines, the "united force and fixed thought" of Satan's character are enlarged on; then, in ringing tones against a background of flaming swords thrown aloft, he hurls defiance toward the vault of Heaven and stirs his followers to revolt (622-662). The gold and the dazzling wealth of Hell are described and their appropriateness in Hell is pointed out (670-692). To the end of the Book, various vocations are described, and the newly built Pandemonium is erected as the fitting place for the great council, the theme of Book II.
LESSON DEPARTMENT The second Book opens with Satan on his throne, posing to his throng the question of how to be revenged against God. Each of his leaders arises to offer his solution, at the same time characterizing himself most tellingly (to 283). Satan spurns talk of peace, suggests that someone go to the new earth to corrupt Man, and finally begins the journey alone through Chaos, intent on seducing Adam and Eve into error. 'The legions explore "a universe of death" teeming with epic horrors (561-628), while Satan wings his way through the terror on the outer fringe of Hell. Guarding the gate is the monster Sin, Satan's daughter, who finally lets him pass into the "secrets of the hoary Deep" 489 (to 891). He traverses the night and death that is Chaos until finally he sees the light of Heaven, which reveals the new world to him. Thither, "Accurst, and in a cursed hour, he hies." Thus comes to an end the first great division of Paradise Lost. Questions for Discussion 1. Why is Milton sometimes referred to as a "pioneer of the human spirit''? 2. Discuss Milton's failure to write an epic about King Arthur. 3. Cite examples to prove that Milton was one of the most learned poets in the history of literature. 4. To what do you attribute the grandeur and majesty of Paradise Lost? Its style? Its content? Oii