["The Last Supper and the Betrayal" by Don B. Colton]

"The Last Supper and the Betrayal," chapter 33. Objective: To teach the purpose of the sacrament and to show the great courage of the Savior in meeting the events of his betrayal.
Lesson 26. "The Trial and Condemnation," chapter 34. Objective: To demonstrate the matchless love of Christ by recounting what he suffered to save mankind.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 27. "Death and Burial"; and "In the Realm of Disembodied Spirits," chapters 35 and 36. Objective: To show more of the love of the Redeemer of the world, who suffered and died that mankind might be saved; and that this salvation includes both the living and the dead. Lesson 28. "The Resurrection and the Ascension," chapter 37. Objective: To create faith in the power of Jesus Chnst over death and to show that his resurrection and ascension were real. Lesson 29. "The Apostolic Ministry," chapter 38. Objective: To demonstrate that, when authorized and filled with the Holy Ghost, the servants of the Lord carry on his work as he did while upon the earth. Lesson 30. "Ministry of the Resurrected Christ on the Western Hemisphere," chapter 39. Objective: To convince the careful student that the Lord blesses people wherever they serve him. The Church, with all its blessings, was organized among the people of the Western Continent. Lesson 31. "The Long Night of Apostasy," chapter 40. Objective: To prove that there was an apostasy from the Primitive Church and that the Lord Jesus ceased to reveal himself to men for centuries. 471
Lesson 32. "Personal Manifestations of God the Eternal Father and of His Son Jesus Christ in Modern Times"; and "Jesus the Christ to Return," chapters 41 and 42. Objective: To show that God, the Eternal Father, and his Son, Jesus Christ, have manifested themselves on earth in modern times; and that Christ the Lord will retum as a resurrected, glorified being to reign on earth. Conclusion T' was my good fortune to be asked nearly four years ago to prepare the lessons on the life of Jesus the Christ. This has been indeed a labor of love, and I regret that these are the concluding lessons. I am grateful to the sisters of the general board. They have been very helpful and sympathetic. I have felt a nearness to the Savior never before experienced in my life. I had a testimony of his divinity before commencing this labor, but have never felt his presence more than while working on these lessons. I am sure that if the sisters will study the life of the Savior, as I have done, they will be repaid a hundredfold for the effort, and will consecrate again their lives to teaching the gospel and helping others to live it. This is one labor that brings its own reward. Feelings can never be quite defined. The feelings the Savior gives us cannot be described to others. If we "draw near to him, he will draw near to us." Let us not only study but feel his life. Sincerely, Don B. Colton 
472