[The God-Given Agency of Man by Archibald F. Bennett]

The God-given Agency of Man, text, chapter 1; chapter 5, pp. 65-66, 71; chapter 37, page 448. Objective: To present the great truth that man, offspring of God and in his likeness, has been given intelligence and an individual agency or liberty to act according to his own choice and the desires of his heart.
Properly used, this great gift will lead him to eternal happiness and back into the presence of God, the Father.
Lesson 2. The First Earth Government, text, chapter 2; chapter 6, pp. 79-80; chapter 5, pp. 66-68; chapter 3, PP- 39°40. Objective: To show that for the benefit of Adam and his posterity, God established upon the earth a perfect system of government of patriarchal pattern.
Lesson 3. Evil Forces in the World, text, chapter 6; chapter 7. Objective: To depict how Satan, perpetual opponent of the plan of salvation, imduced early man to forsake his divine form of government and introduced a rule of force and oppression.
Lesson 4. Ancient Political Despotisms, text chapter 8. 491
Objective: To show how nations of old rebelled against God, tumed to wickedness and idolatry, and set up rulers with absolute power who might destroy all religious and political freedom and consider the individual of no worth.: Lesson 5. Nations Which Rose and Fell, text, chapter 3; chapter 9; chapter 11, pp. 144-147. Objective: To demonstrate that every nation of the past which forsook God and his righteous principles brought war and _ bloodshed and misery, degradation and death upon its people, and went down in failure or to utter destruction. Lesson 6. The Role of Ancient Israel, text, chapter 10. Objective: To portray how Israel's mission, as the Lord's chosen people, was to preserve in the world the knowledge of God and the true gospel, and to exercise divine authority for the good of all mankind. Lesson 7.. Universal Peace Must Come from God, text, chapter 4. Objective: 'To prove that man-made governments have always failed tragically; and that it needs the wisdom, intelligence, and power of God to bring universal peace and happiness. Social Sctence—The Progress of Man Part —The Lesson of History Lesson 1—The God-Given Agency of Man Elder Archibald F. Bennett (Text, The Progress of Man, by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, chapters 1 and 5, pp. 71, 65-66; chapter 37, p. 448.) For Tuesday, October 24, 1950 
492 
Objective: To present the great truth that man, offspring of God and in his likeness, has been given intelligence and an individual agency or liberty to act according to his own choice and the desires of his heart.
Properly used this great gift will lead him to eternal happiness and back into the presence of God, his Father. The Genesis of Man HE Bible teaches us that man existed in the spirit creation before he appeared on this earth with his physical body, but this doctrine in the Bible is only discerned through a mist or fog.
This fog is created, as recorded by Nephi, because many plain and _ precious things have been taken out of the | Bible, which fact causes an exceeding great many to stumble, "insomuch that Satan hath great power over them" (Book of Mormon, I Nephi 13:29). In the restoration of these plain and precious parts which have been given to the Church in our present dispensation, the doctrine of man's pre-existence in the spirit creation is clearly and forcefully taught. The Latter-day Saints believe that man is a spirit clothed with a tabernacle of flesh and bones, the intelli- - gent part of which was never created or made, but existed eternally.
This belief is based upon a revelation given to the Church, May 6, 1833, at Kirtland, Ohio. In this revelation the Lord declared: Man was also in the beginning with God. Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created or made, neither indeed can be For man is spirit. The elements are eternal, and spirit and element, inseparably connected receive a fulness of joy; And when separated, man cannot receive a fulness of joy (Doc. & Cov. 93:29, 33-34).
Abraham declares: Now the Lord had shown unto me, Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was And God saw these souls that they were good, and he stood in the midst of them, and he said: These I will make my rulers; for he stood among those that were spirits, and he saw that they were good (Pearl of Great Price, Abraham 3:22-23).
Some of our writers have endeavored to explain what an intelligence is, but to do so is futile, for we have never been given any insight into this matter beyond what the Lord has fragmentarily revealed. We know, however, that there is something called intelligence which always existed. It is the real eternal part of man, which was not created or made.
This intelligence, combined with the spirit, constitutes a spiritual identity or individual. Man the Offspring of God The spirit of man, then, is a combination of the intelligence and the spirit or an "organized intelligence," which is an entity begotten of God.
Jesus is in very deed our Elder Brother, the Firstborn in the spirit and the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh; and God is in very deed our Father, according to the plain declaration of the scriptures, both ancient and modern. It was in the light of this teaching that Eliza R.
Snow wrote her beautiful hymn— "O My Father." The following is an excerpt taken from an epistle issued by the First Presidency and the Twelve Apostles, June 30, 1916. Father, as Literal Parent.
Scriptures embodying the ordinary signification—literal- LESSON DEPARTMENT ly that of Parent—are too numerous and specific to require citation. The purport of these scriptures is to the effect that God the Eternal Father, whom we designate by the exalted name-title "Elohim" is the literal Parent of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and of the spirits of the human race.
Elohim is...
Distinctively the Father of spirits.
Thus we read in the Epistle to the Hebrews: "Furthermore we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence: shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits, and live?" (Heb. 12:9). In view of this fact we are taught by Jesus Christ to pray: "Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name" (Improvement Era, 19:934). Man Created in the Likeness of God It is recorded in Genesis that God said unto his Only Begotten Son: Let us make man in our image, after our likeness; and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them (Gen. 1:26- 27). The Book of Moses, revealed in our day, is even more explicit in its account of creation: In the day that God created man,' in the likeness of God made he him; In the image of his own body, male and female, created he them (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 6:8-9). Man's Free Agency Since man is in very deed the offspring of God, and therefore created in his image, he must be endowed with certain characteristics inherited from his Father. He is ordained, by virtue of his birthright, to become an intelligent, independ- 493 ent being within his sphere.
That this might be brought about, the great gift of free agency is granted.
There could be no progression, no real existence, without this great gift.
When the plan of salvation was presented to the spirits in the pre-mortal estate, each individual spirit had the privilege of receiving or rejecting that plan, for this power was inherent within him. It is an eternal principle.
Lucifer sought to destroy it, and proposed to take away from man the right and power to act as a free agent, and substitute in the stead thereof the law of compulsion. In the Book of Moses in the Pearl of Great Price it is written: And I, the Lord God, spake unto Moses, saying: That Satan, whom thou hast commanded in the name of mine Only Begotten, is the same which was from the beginning, and he came before me, saying—Behold, here am I, send me, I will be thy son, and I will redeem all mankind, that one soul shall not be lost, and surely I will do it; wherefore give me thine honor. But, behold, my Beloved Son, which was my Beloved and Chosen from the beginning, said unto me—Father, thy will be done, and the glory be thine forever. Wherefore, because that Satan rebelled against me, and sought to destroy the agency of man, which I, the Lord God, had given him, and also, that I should give unto him mine own power; by the power of mine Only Begotten, I caused that he should be cast down; And he became Satan, yea, even the devil, the father of all lies, to deceive and to blind men, and to lead them captive at his will, even as many as would not hearken unto my voice (Moses 4:1-4). 494
President Brigham Young has correctly said: | What is the foundation of the rights of man? The Lord Almighty has organized man for the express purpose of becoming an independent being like unto himself, and has given him his individual agency, leaving him at liberty to act in the way that seemeth good unto him (Millennial Star 20:43).
Alma has stated it in these words: I ought not to harrow up in my desires, the firm decree of a just God, for I know that he granteth unto men according to their desire, whether it be unto death or unto life; yea, I know that he allotteth unto men according to their wills, whether they be unto salvation or unto destruction. Yea, and I know that good and evil have come before all men; he that knoweth not good from evil is blameless; but he that knoweth good and evil, to him it is given according to his desires, whether he desireth good or evil, life or death, joy or remorse of conscience (Book of Mormon, Alma 29:4-5).
While this free gift, inherent through our birthright as the children of God, will be the means by which many will fail to obtain the reward of exaltation, yet it is plain to see that exaltation could not be granted to any soul without the exercise of this great gift which makes of him a free agent.
Through this power, and by obedience to the principles of eternal truth, he will eventually become an independent being, exercising the fulness of authority and power in the kingdom of God. The Power to Rise _ Man was made to have dominion over all the works of the Almighty upon the earth, for he is the crowning glory of all creation. Moreover,  while man in this mortal world with its changing scenes is made a little lower than the angels, yet the power is in him to rise far above the angels through the exercise of his agency. He may become like God, his Father, who planted in his being the divine spark in the creation, which spark may be developed to its fulness through the glorious mission on the earth of our Redeemer, Jesus Christ. The spirit of worship is inherent in man because he is the child of God born in the spirit world. It is natural for men to worship, no matter where they live, or when. No matter how depraved or ignorant they become, within their souls is the feeling of worship. It may become very dim and apparently disappear entirely through yielding to sin, yet it is doubtful if that spark is ever entirely destroyed. How could it be destroyed when man's eternal spirit was begotten of God? The facts that men have inherited from the Father the feeling of worship and reverence, and that the idea of God is one received from our first parents who taught their children in meekness and truth all things in relation to their duty and obligations unto God, make men moral agents. 'They are possessed of spiritual endowment, and hence are responsible to the Higher Powers. | This doctrine coincides with the revelation of the Lord, already noted, that every man born into the world is enlightened by the Spirit of Truth, and with such guidance becomes a moral agent before the throne of God. His conscience is the monitor, or guide which comes LESSON DEPARTMENT from this eternal Spirit given to every man to lead him in the path of right and truth. If he will continue to hearken to the voice of the Spirit of 'Truth, or Spirit of Christ, it will lead him eventually to the fulness of the light—the gospel of Jesus Christ. President John Taylor, in his very excellent and inspirational work, The Government of God, has this to say:: Man, then, is a moral agent, possessing the power to do good or to do evil; if he does well, he fulfills the measure of his creation, and secures his happiness in time and in eternity. If he does not well, and is involved in difficulties and misery, it is his own fault, and he may blame himself (chapter 6). The Purpose of Earth Life The restored gospel has given to the world the perfect understanding concerning man's existence. It has marked out with some detail where he is from, why he is here, and where he is going, and why. The Book of Mormon declares: "Adam fell that men might be; and men are, that they might have joy." 'The purpose of mortal life is, then, to prepare man for joy in the eternal existence. I quote from the Prophet Joseph Smith: Happiness is the object and design. Of our existence; and willl be the end thereof, if we pursue the path that leads to it; and this path is virtue, uprightness, faithfulness, holiness, and keeping all the commandments of God (D. H. C. V, pp. 134-135). The purpose of this earth life, so far as man is concerned, is that he may, through all the vicissitudes of 495 mortality, prove himself worthy of advancement to the fulness of exaltation, or, through rejection and transgression of divine law, receive a reward of punishment and denial of blessings according to his works.
Whether he receives exaltation or condemnation, we are positively informed that it will be a reward based upon individual merit. In the spirit world man walked by sight. He was in the presence of the Father and the Son. Ile had his agency to accept or reject the covenants and commandments which were given there. We are told that one third of the spirits rebelled against the plan of salvation due to the persuasion of Lucifer, who aspired to become the redeemer of the world through the introduction of unjust principles. In that spirit existence we were able to comprehend that there were many blessings which we did not there possess. We beheld the Iather in his glory and, without question, we longed to be like him. 'The plan of salvation was presented and the spirits of men were informed that only by passing through this mortal probation, where they would come in contact with temptation and all manner of evil as well as the good, and by passing through death and the resurrection, could the exaltation come so that they could be like our glorious Father. We were informed, and the matter was made very clear, that we would have to walk by faith, not by sight. Moreover, many would yield to temptation and sin and would refuse to accept the divine law of the gospel which should be given for our guidance and by means of which we 496 could come back into the presence of the Father and the Son. We understood the dangers and the risks of failure in making the journey through the mortal life, yet we rejoiced and were glad to have the opportunity to come and receive all that mortality offered.
What we accepted there, without doubt, was accepted by all with eyes open and with understanding of the dangers and advantages.
Thoughts for Discussion 1.
Exactly what facts have been revealed about "the intelligences that were organized before the world was'? 2.
Explain the full significance in the story of man's creation of the words "in the image of his own body, male and female, created he them." | 3.
Discuss the difference between license to do as one pleases and '"'free agency." 4.
According to history, has man always been free to exercise his moral agency?.
Show that Satan's lust for power and desire to rule by force, transplanted to earth, have caused most of our human suffering.  6.
Attempts to destroy man's agency by coercion have taken various forms, such as seeking to deprive others of their (1) life, (2) liberty, (3) property, (4) right to worship, (5) mght of free speech, (6) right of free thinking.
Which was the governing motive on the part of the oppressor in each of the following cases? A.
Threatened sacrifice of Abram upon an altar in Chaldea. B. The captivity of Israel in Egypt. C. The three Hebrews in the fiery furnace. D. The death of Abinadi. E.
Torture and execution of Protestants for attempting to print or read the Bible during the Middle Ages. F.
Combat between David and Goliath. G. The imprisonment of Jeremiah. H. Crucifixion. Of the Savior. 7.
Name examples from history of other attempts to rule by force.: 8.
Show clearly that "'exaltation could not be granted to any soul without the exercise of this great gift which makes of him a free agent." | Justify the teaching of Alma that God "granteth unto men according to their desire."' For other reference matter, see: Clark, J. Reuben, Jr., "Our Homes," Relief Society Magazine, December 1940, page 801. O> MV lusic—Fundamentals of Musicianship CONDUCTING, SINGING, AND ACCOMPANYING Preview of Lessons for Union Meetings for 1950-51
Florence ]. Madsen HE lessons for the coming year's study in the music department of union meeting are presented for the purpose of providing more thorough training in musicianship —conducting, singing, and accompanying—toward more efficient leadership and more complete service. Lesson 1. "