[Metamorphosis by Eva Willes Wangsgaard]

Metamorphosis Dreams Ave Songs Eva Willes Wangsgaard Margaret B. Shomaker This moth on brilliant patterned wings Dreams are songs that we may sing, Once knew a worm's meanderings. A soft unspoken word, When I outgrow my chrysalis The tiny flash of a silver wing— Will I be beautiful as this? Tomorrow's soaring bird. The Story of English China Rachel K. Laurgaard Illustrations by Elizabeth Williamson NGLISH china is a household tradition the world over—and a family tradition as well— among the families of Wedgwoods, Spode, Adams, Woods, Stevensons, and Ridgeways — to name only a few of the good old Staffordshire families of potters.
They do not claim any pottery-making ancestors farther back than the seventeenth century—(a Gilbert Wedgwood, for example, was a potter in Staffordshire in 1649) —nevertheless, the clays and fuels of the district which became Staffordshire were being utilized for pots and pitchers when the Romans came to Britain fifty years before the birth of Christ.
Throughout almost 400 years of Roman rule, during invasions of Danes and Norsemen, and the final, lasting conquest by William of Normandy, the potters of Staffordshire handed down their skills from father to son, making innovations in technique here and there, until, by the time the nineteenth century rolled around, they had developed an ancient craft into a great and thriving industry. A few pieces of pottery which date from Roman times are still in existence, but the really definite traditions of Staffordshire begin with the earlier experiments and the successful development of the "slip ware" of the seventeenth century— a red clay pottery decorated with free-flowing designs of white clay or slip, trailed on with a quill.
Lions rampant, mermaids, spread Although — eagles, and formal patterns of foliage were skilfully applied, much in the manner of decorating a cake.
Jugs in the shape of owls, miniature cradles, probably for christenings, and other odd pieces were made, in addition to the large plates, bowls, and cups, all decorated in this bold and rhythmical fashion.
Slip ware was "'peasant-pottery," used in the* little homes with thatched roofs. In mansions and castles, dishes of pewter and silver served the wealthy.
Only when the porcelain of the Orient came filtering in, did they discover how much better food tasted when served from the products of the kiln instead of the forge. In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, Italian majolica, Dutch delftware, and French soft-paste porcelain were all imported into England, and soon English factories were set up to imitate them. In Staffordshire, the potters continued to make slip ware, while at Liverpool, Chelsea, Bow, Worcester, and Derby, the soft-pastes of the Continent were emulated. The factory at Chelsea was particularly successful in putting out a beautiful and fragile ware, so like milky-white glass in texture, that, at times, it has been mistaken for glass.
Little of it was original in design or decoration.
Meissen was all the rage, and Chelsea painters copied the delicate landscapes, the slight Japanese designs, and the sprigs and bouquets of naturalistic flowers—styles which Meissen artPage
465 WEDGWOOD JASPER WARE—1780
Blue colored background, with white embossing ists had invented. 'Fhey gave them an English character quite their own, however, and a new beauty of color and rhythm which put Chelsea in a class with the best French porcelains of the period.
Chelsea figurines were charmingly simple, with a life and vitality different from the often cruelly humorous figures of Kaendler's Meissen.
Though the Chelsea factory closed in 1784, English china makers have never forgotten this—their most artistic porcelain, and they have continued to reproduce Chelsea patterns on more modern wares, while antique originals bring fabulous prices from collectors.
None of the English porcelain or delftware factories was longlived, perhaps because there was no royal support, as on the Continent. The potters of Staffordshire seemed not to be too interested in imitating luxury wares; they were striving for a tougher, cleaner, and more attractive everyday china.
From slip ware they developed "stoneware" a hard, dense, heavily glazed red or brown earthenware.
When white Devonshire clay was introduced into the paste, it became RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1950 grayish in color, and, with the addition of calcined flint, it became still whiter. GOMEONE, early in the eighteenth century, discovered that by throwing salt into the kiln when the temperature was at its peak, a thin film of very hard glaze could be deposited on the surface of the ware.
This made it even more durable and resistant to liquids and food chemicals. By sifting and refining the clays, thinner vessels became practicable, and these were "cast" in molds instead of being turned on the wheel. Naturally, this dainty, yet practical, salt-glazed stoneware was very popular with the English, and soon with the Continental and American housewives as well. So, for the first time, English china entered world trade. The name pre-eminently connected with the improvement of © Staffordshire techniques was Josiah Wedgwood. Not that he was the inventor of all of these processes, rather, he was the clever assimilator—with the ideal of technical perfection ever as his goal. He insisted that lids should fit, spouts should pour, and handles be properly shaped. His cream-colored STAFFORDSHIRE WARE Nineteenth Century THE STORY OF ENGLISH CHINA ROYAL DOULTON FIGURINE stoneware was the acme of simplicity and perfection.
Decoration was applied in the form of vines, flowers, and grapes molded in clay and fastened to the surface by a method called sprigging. So widely was this ware acclaimed that Queen Charlotte, wife of George III, ordered a set, and henceforth Wedgwood was permitted to call his product Queen's Ware. The grapevine pattern is still a popular Queen's Ware design, though nowadays it is stamped on, rather than applied by hand. In 1755, another sensational innovation in the china industry took place in Liverpool. The firm of Sadler and Green announced that they were setting up a business for decorating china by an entirely new process—transfer printing.
Copper plate engravings were made to fit the piece to be decorated.
Transfer papers were imprinted from the copper plate and, from the paper, the design was transferred to the dish. The ink was allowed to dry for several days, and then the piece was baked. It was glazed next, and given a final firing. 467
The Staffordshire potters availed themselves of Messrs. Sadler and Green's services, and quantities of. Stoneware went to Liverpool to be decorated, and thence out into the markets of the world. At first deep blue was the only color used because it fired well, but soon carmine, brown, green, and light blue were available. Engravings were made from the works of well-known artists, scenes, buildings, portraits of famous people, and characters from books, fanciful oriental designs and conventional patterns of fruit and flowers—even photographs were copied. To America were sent scenes from our history, portraits of our famous men, and views sketched by our artists. Enoch Wood's pottery works put out more American scenes than any of the others, although the trade marks of Ridgeway, Clewes, Adams, Wedgwood, Stevenson, Spode, and others are to be found also, each with its own special border design of fruit or flowers and foliage, medallions, and scrolls. Although unclassified pieces turn up now and then, most patterns of historical Staffordshire can be identified in such interesting books on the subject as, American Views on Historical Staffordshire, by Ellouise Baker Larsen. Staffordshire potters did not concentrate all their efforts on serviceable tableware, however. Wedgwood, in particular, was interested in creating something special in decorative ceramics. He turned to classical forms for his inspiration, and produced a great variety of urns and vases, bas-reliefs and busts in a very hard black stoneware called 468
Black Basalt. Not satisfied with this as a medium, he continued to experiment, and finally produced a perfectly white hard stoneware which would take such a high fire that it became vitreous. Y mixing coloring oxides in the paste, it could be delicately stained pale blue, sage green, yellow, dark blue, and other tints.
Upon these colored pieces were applied white ornaments. 'This type of stoneware, Wedgwood called jasper ware, and he prized it above all his other productions.
Ornamental dishes, vases, even jewelry and buttons of jasper ware were made. The most famous piece was the Portland Vase, which was copied from an antique original excavated from a tomb near Rome, and belonged to the collection of the Duchess of Portland.
Most other English potters imitated the enterprising Wedgwood, some of them, such as William Adams of Tunstall, and Josiah Spode of Stoke, equaled Wedgwood's RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1950 SPODE BONE CHINA Chelsea Garden Pattern ware in quality. 'To Spode is ascribed the honor of developing, in 1794, a still different ware which merged the porcelain and earthenware styles. It is the Staffordshire bone china, a practical and economical hybrid porcelain containing bone ash. It is more durable than true porcelain, and cream-colored instead of pure white.
With slight variations among different manufacturers, Spode's formula is still the standard wherever bone china is produced. It ls usually decorated by hand, and such fine modern brands as Minton's, Royal Worcester, Crown Derby, Spode, and Wedgwood bone china achieve pre-eminence from the careful work of their skilled china painters who continue to reproduce the antique Chelsea, Meissen, and oriental patterns.
Figurines and Toby jugs are popular products of the Royal Doulton factory.
Many have been the changes in the Staffordshire Pottery District since the slipware potters of long ago turned out their simple handmade wares! llotes on Authors of the oessons HIS year two writers, Elder Archibald F.
Bennett and Sister Christine Hinckley Robinson, are introduced to Relief Society members and readers of the Magazine. Archibald F. Bennett, who prepared the social science lessons, was born in Dingle, Idaho, the son of William D. And Emma Neat Bennett. He received his B. A. And M. A.
Degrees from the University of Utah, majoring in history and_ political science. He taught at Taber High School, the Knight Academy, and Raymond High School in Alberta, Canada. He served in the Canadian Expeditionary Force during the First World War for thirty-eight months, most of that time overseas in France. On September 1, 1928, he became Secretary of the Genealogical Society of the Church, and has served over twenty-one years in that position, editing the Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine for twelve years., With the development of microfilming activities in the United States and ten countries of Europe, his duties have called him to visit the various countries there for several months during the years 1947 and 1948., He has served as a member of the General Board of The Deseret Sunday School Union since August, 1940. He married Ann Ella Milner of Raymond, Alberta, and they are the parents of five children, two sons and three daughters, with one grandchild. Christine Hinckley Robinson is the author of the lessons on "The Art of Homemaking." A member of the Relief Society general board, Sister Robinson is a daughter of Bryant S. And the late Christine Johnson Hinckley. She was born in Salt Lake City and attended Brigham Young University. Sister Robinson is the wife of Dr. O. Preston Robinson, and is the mother of one son and two daughters. Dr.
Robinson was on the faculty of New York University for nearly twenty years. He is now head of the department of marketing at the University of Utah. 'Sister Robinson is co-author with her husband of a popular textbook on modern salesmanship. In addition, she has written a number of newspaper and magazine articles on interior decoration. She studied home decorating at New York University and at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and taught at the Foster School of Fine Arts in New York. Sister Robinson has an excellent understanding of the subject about which she writes and of how it can be adapted most effectively to the lives and homes of the sisters of the Relief Society. For biographical sketches of the authors of the other lessons, see: Elder Don B. Colton: Relief Society Magazine, July 1947, page 483. Mary Grant Judd: Relief Society Magazine, July 1949, page 471. Briant S. Jacobs: Relief Society Magazine, July 1949, page 471. Florence J. Madsen, Relief Society Magazine, January 1939, page 32 and September 1941, page 592. Page 469
Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Preview of Lessons for 1950-51
Elder Don B. Colton his commandments. The objective AS in the previous three years, the textbook to be followed this year is Jesus the Christ by Elder James E. Talmage. This year's lessons will conclude the course. It has been found advisable in two instances to include two chapters in one lesson, but they are comparatively short chapters and can be covered, if the outline is followed. By special request, the author has closely confined his discussion to the text. It is a wonderful biography of the Savior. While supplemental and enrichment material is desirable, it should be germane to the text. Discussion should be confined to the subject matter of the lesson. Surely every careful student can see how necessary it is for us to understand the life and teachings of Jesus the Christ. Anything which can be done to induce the world to follow him more faithfully, should challenge the attention and enlist the support of all honest people, and especially those who profess membership in his true Church. This year's course should bring us to a deeper appreciation of the great work that our Redeemer did for us and awaken within our hearts a keen desire to do his will and keep Page 470 will be to show his great love for us and his willingness to glorify our Father in heaven. He marked the path for us to follow. Suggestive questions and points for discussion are given at the end of each lesson, and it is hoped that they will aid in securing class participation. The class leader may desire to use other questions and should, of course, feel at liberty to do so. We have again adopted the chapter titles of the text as titles for the lessons. For the 1950-51 season we shall study chapters 33 to 42, inclusive. These are the concluding chapters, giving the events of the most glorious life ever lived upon earth. The titles and objectives of the lessons follow: Lesson 25. "The Last Supper and the Betrayal," chapter 33. Objective: To teach the purpose of the sacrament and to show the great courage of the Savior in meeting the events of his betrayal.
Lesson 26. "The Trial and Condemnation," chapter 34. Objective: To demonstrate the matchless love of Christ by recounting what he suffered to s ave mankind.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 27. "Death and Burial"; and "In the Realm of Disembodied Spirits," chapters 35 and 36. Objective: To show more of the love of the Redeemer of the world, who suffered and died that mankind might be saved; and that this salvation includes both the living and the dead. Lesson 28. "The Resurrection and the Ascension," chapter 37. Objective: To create faith in the power of Jesus Chnst over death and to show that his resurrection and ascension were real. Lesson 29. "The Apostolic Ministry," chapter 38. Objective: To demonstrate that, when authorized and filled with the Holy Ghost, the servants of the Lord carry on his work as he did while upon the earth. Lesson 30. "Ministry of the Resurrected Christ on the Western Hemisphere," chapter 39. Objective: To convince the careful student that the Lord blesses people wherever they serve him. The Church, with all its blessings, was organized among the people of the Western Continent. Lesson 31. "The Long Night of Apostasy," chapter 40. Objective: To prove that there was an apostasy from the Primitive Church and that the Lord Jesus ceased to reveal himself to men for centuries. 471
Lesson 32. "Personal Manifestations of God the Eternal Father and of His Son Jesus Christ in Modern Times"; and "Jesus the Christ to Return," chapters 41 and 42. Objective: To show that God, the Eternal Father, and his Son, Jesus Christ, have manifested themselves on earth in modern times; and that Christ the Lord will retum as a resurrected, glorified being to reign on earth. Conclusion T' was my good fortune to be asked nearly four years ago to prepare the lessons on the life of Jesus the Christ. This has been indeed a labor of love, and I regret that these are the concluding lessons. I am grateful to the sisters of the general board. They have been very helpful and sympathetic. I have felt a nearness to the Savior never before experienced in my life. I had a testimony of his divinity before commencing this labor, but have never felt his presence more than while working on these lessons. I am sure that if the sisters will study the life of the Savior, as I have done, they will be repaid a hundredfold for the effort, and will consecrate again their lives to teaching the gospel and helping others to live it. This is one labor that brings its own reward. Feelings can never be quite defined. The feelings the Savior gives us cannot be described to others. If we "draw near to him, he will draw near to us." Let us not only study but feel his life. Sincerely, Don B. Colton 
472 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1950
Theology —The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 25—"The Last Supper and the Betrayal' Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, by Elder James E. Talmage, chapter 33.) For Tuesday, October 3, 1950
Objective: To teach the purpose of the sacrament and to show the great courage of the Savior in meeting the events of his betrayal. The Priestly Conspirators and the Traitor 'WO days before the last feast of the passover which Jesus was to attend on earth, the chief priests and wicked scribes began to conspire as to how they could put the Master to death, without causing an uprising among the people. 'The conspirators finally decided against putting him to death on the feast day; the danger was too great. The celebration lasted a week. The plans of the rulers of the Jews were greatly aided by the unexpected appearance of Judas Iscariot, one of the Council of 'Twelve. Undoubtedly, this traitor was motivated by avarice. His question to them was, "What will you give me?" He bargained to sell his Master for thirty pieces of silver— about seventeen or eighteen dollars. It must be said, however, that the purchasing power of the money was far greater among the Jews in that day than among people today. Think of it! For that paltry sum earth's blackest deed of treachery was to be committed. Truly Iscariot had sold himself to Satan. The Last Supper ' During the afternoon on the first day of the feast of unleavened bread, the paschal lambs were slain within the temple court by representatives of families or groups who were to eat together. A portion of the blood of each lamb was sprinkled at the foot of the altar of sacrifice by one of the priests on duty for the day. The slain lamb, then said to have been sacrificed, was carried away to the designated gathering place of those by whom it was to be eaten. The last supper probably occurred that evening. Jesus had told Peter and John to return to Jerusalem and said: Behold, when ye are entered into the city, there shall a man meet you, bearing a pitcher of water; follow him into the house where he entereth in. And ye shall say unto the goodman of the house, The Master saith unto thee, Where is the guestchamber, where I shall eat the passover with my disciples? And he shall shew you a large upper room furnished: there make ready. And they went, and found as he had said unto them: and they made ready the passover (Luke 22:10-13). Although it was probably Thursday evening, as we reckon time, it was the beginning of Friday according to the Jewish calendar when Jesus sat down with the Twelve to partake of the last meal before his death.
LESSON DEPARTMENT And he said unto them, with desire I have desired to eat this passover with you before I suffer: For I say unto you, I will not any more eat thereof, until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God. And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and said, Take this, and divide it among yourselves: For I say unto you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine, until the kingdom of God shall come (Luke 22:15-18). It will be seen that Jesus followed the customary manner of beginning the passover supper. As they ate, Jesus sorrowfully remarked: "Verily I say unto you, One of you which eateth with me shall betray me" (Mark 14:18).
Nearly all of the apostles began, in turn, to ask: "Is it I?"
Most of them, no doubt, wondered whether, inadvertently, they might have said or done something which would cause the Lord's betrayal. However, when the brazen Iscariot asked that question, the reply was prompt: "Thou hast said" (Matt. 26:25). The Ordinance of the Washing of Feet Another incident occurred at the supper which evidently brought sorrow to the Lord.
Some of the 'T'welve began disputing over the matter of individual precedence, possibly as to the order in which they should take their places at the supper table. It was the human within them asSerting itself.
Again the Lord reminded them that the greatest of them all was he who most willingly served his fellows. He then proceeded to teach them a great lesson in serving.
Laying aside his garments, he took a towel and girded himself and poured water into a basin.
Kneeling before each in 473 turn, he washed the disciples' feet, and wiped them with a towel. The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper During the memorable last supper which Jesus ate with his apostles before his death, many great things happened.
None had more farreaching effect than the instituting of the ordinance of the sacrament.
They were still at the table when the Lord took a loaf or cake of bread and, after first giving thanks, blessed and sanctified it. He then gave a portion to each of the apostles, saying: ""This is my body which | is given for you: this do in remembrance of me" (Luke 22:19). He had already told them to eat the bread. 'Taking a cup of wine, he also blessed it and said: "Drink ye all of it; For this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins" (Matt. 26:27-28). 'The ordinance was not surrounded by mystery. It was impressive and devoid of show. The bread and wine became emblems of the Lord's body and blood taken in remembrance. 'The simplicity of the ordinance gives it beauty and, certainly, it should be administered and partaken of reverently. The proceedings at the institution of this sacred rite were afterward revealed by the Lord to Paul (I Cor. 11:23-34). It was revealed again in this our day (D. & C. 20:75).
Many unauthorized changes have been made by an apostate world both as to its meaning and effect. It is easy to understand, however, when we know that it is to be done in remembrance of the Lord's suffering. 474
This is easy to understand, as are all of the ordinances of the gospel, by those who are given the priceless gift of the Holy Ghost. The Betrayer Goes Out Into the Night When Jesus washed the feet of the apostles, he even washed the feet of the guilty Iscariot, but let it be known that all present were not clean. He answered John's whispered inquiry as to who would betray him with the words, "He it ls, to whom I shall give a sop, when I have dipped it" (John 14:26). He was referring to his betrayer for, immediately, he dipped a piece of bread into a dish containing a mixture of some kind and gave it to Judas with the direction: "That thou doest, do quickly." The record states: "Satan entered into him." The traitor immediately left the blessed company he was to know no more, and went on his terrible mission, "and it was night." _ Discourse Following the Supper Following the departure of Iscariot, Jesus commenced to talk to the remaining apostles. "Now is the Son of man glorified, and God is glorified in him" (John 13:31). He inspired them with the glory of both the Father and the Son. He gave them a new commandment: "That ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another" (John 13:34-35). Love should be the distinguishing mark not only of the apostles but of all members of the Church who truly love Christ. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1950
Jesus again told them that he would have to leave them.
Peter especially was disturbed. He seemed to have realized that the death of Jesus was near. 'The Lord made a very unusual remark to Peter: "Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you, th at he may sift you as wheat: But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not: and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren" (Luke 22:31-32). The Master knew that even Peter, the chief of the apostles, would soon be overcome and deny even that he was acquainted with the Lord.
Peter would deny the Savior thrice before the dawn of the next day.
Theretofore the Lord had instructed the apostles in detail when he sent them upon their missions, however, a new order of things now awaited them. He referred to Isaiah's prophecy (Isa. 53) and told them he would soon be reckoned among the transgressors, "for the things concerning me have an end." The disciples said, "Lord, behold, here are two swords, And he said unto them, It is enough." Later, they were to learn the depth of his meaning.
John alone records this last discourse. It is earnestly recommended that members of the class read John, chapters 14, 15, 16, and 17.
Some of the most sublime truths of the gospel are taught therein. One of these truths mentioned there is outstanding.
Nearly all Christians believe that there are only two places in the hereafter.
Jesus plainly told of the graded conditions of people in the hereafter. He described, as Paul later did, the degrees of glory, of places and stations in the eternal worlds. (Read CHRIST IN GETHSEMANE Copyright by Eugene A. Perry From a Painting by Hoffman Page 475 416 also I Cor. 15.) That there are many mansions in our Father's house is not understood in the socalled Christian world (John 14:2). The Jews had been taught that there was but one God.
Many people had refused to follow Jesus when he proclaimed himself the literal Son of God (John 6:55-66). The doctrine of the oneness of deity disturbed some of the apostles. 'Thomas inquired: "Lord, we know not whither thou goest; and how can we know the way?" In their hearts, thousands have asked that question. The answer was clear. "I am the way, the truth, and the life." If one knows Christ, one also will know the Father. He that doeth the will shall know. (Read John 7:17.) Philip was also perplexed: "Lord, shew us the Father, and it sufficeth us." It evidently grieved the Savior that even his apostles did not understand, and he replied: "Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? He that hath seen me hath seen the Father; and how sayest thou then, Shew us the Father?"
Jesus had been with them for three years; they held his holy Priesthood, but did not know that he was in the express image of the person of the Father. (Read Heb. 1:1-3.) They not only looked alike but were absolutely one in purpose and action. To know either was to know both, but the Father could be reached only through the Son.
Jesus instructed his disciples to pray in his name to the Father and he promised to send them the Holy Ghost which would be a Comforter and would guide them into all truth. The Holy Ghost was to be their RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1950 great guide and would take of the Father and reveal it unto them. As the apostles of the Lord, they would, by this great gift, be "strong and fruitful in good works." How impressive is this last admonition to them to abide in him and love one another. If they would do that they could "ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you."
Class members are again exhorted to read John 14, 15, 16, and 17. The last and very wonderful discourse of the Lord to his apostles was probably delivered in different places. The first part of it was given in the upper room where they had eaten, and possibly the latter portion and his concluding prayer were given as they went to the Mount of Olives. It is interesting to note that they had sung a hymn before leaving the "upper room" (Matt. 26:26-30). The Concluding Prayer Note the Master's sublime prayer and statement following the discourse.
Among other things he said: "And this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent" (John 17:3). He showed his boundless love as he prayed for those eleven faithful apostles and, since he was about to finish his work on earth, he made a brief report to the Father in his prayer and asked to be glorified with the glory he had "before the world was." His fervent prayer should be studied (John 17).
When they reached the Mount of Olives, he left eight of the apostles at the entrance with instructions to pray. With Peter, James, and LESSON DEPARTMENT John, he went farther into the garden of Gethsemane. He was enveloped by deep sorrow and was to undergo what, perhaps, was the greatest individual struggle of the ages. He "began to be sorrowful and very heavy." He wanted to be alone; and "Saith unto them (his companions), My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even unto death; tarry ye here, and watch with me. And he went a little further and fell on his face, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless not as I will, but as thou wilt."
Returning to the three apostles, Jesus found them asleep. He gently reproved them and said: "The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak."
Again he left them and prayed: "O my Father, if this cup may not pass away from me, except I drink it, thy will be done." An angel appeared to him when he went back to offer his third prayer. "And there appeared an angel unto him from heaven, strengthening him. And being in an agony he prayed more earnestly: and his sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground." The Lord had conquered. He had won the battle. The Betrayal and the Arrest He now waited calmly as Judas approached. Judas, the traitor, led a body of Jewish police and Roman soldiers to the place where Jesus and his disciples waited. 'They came with torches and weapons to take him who could have commanded "twelve legions of angels" had he desired. The Lord walked calmly toward them and inquired: "Whom seek ye?"
Judas profaned the sacred 477 face of Jesus with a kiss.
Even though the signal agreed upon had been given, the soldiers hesitated to take Jesus. He told them frankly that he was Jesus of Nazareth.
Mindful of his apostles, he asked that they be allowed to go their way. He was undoubtedly trying to shield them from the abuse and humiliation which he knew was to come to him.
Some of the apostles were ready to defend their Lord, and Peter drew his sword and smote off the ear of a servant of the high priest.
Jesus secured permission to heal the wounded man, and forbade further resistance on the part of his friends. He was willing to drink the cup his Father was giving him.
Jesus was bound with cords and led captive to face his deadly enemies.
Jesus knew his rights and protested to the high priests and other officials, but said he yielded so that the word and will of God might be fulfilled.
Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1.
Relate the story of the betrayal of» Jesus. 2.
What is the purpose of the sacrament of the Lord's supper?
Tell of the Savior instituting the sacrament. 3.
What is the great mission of the Holy Ghost? How is it bestowed? 4.
What are some of the doctrines taught by the Lord in his last discourse?
References in the Gospels Matt. 10:3; 112:16;, @yrgs; 26:3-5, 14-19, 26-56; 27:3-10. Mark 10:38, 39; 24:1, 10-16, 22-52; 15:28. Lule GG 147719; aatl-137" 19, 20, 24-38. John 5:26-27; 7:30, 44, 45-53; 10:17, 18; 11:47-57; 13:1-38; 14; 15; 16; 17; 18:3, 9, 12. 20:22; 
478 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1950
Uisiting Seachers Tlessages—Our Savior Speaks Preview of Lessons for 1950-51
Mary Grant Judd HE visiting teacher messages for 1950-51 will again correlate with the theology lessons, being a continuation of the series "Our Savior Speaks." In so far as possible the messages have been written to have special interest in the particular months presented. It is the earnest hope of the general board that during the year, the women of Relief Society, both those who have carried Christ's inspirational words into the homes, and those who have received them, will search out other teachings of our Savior and make them effective in their individual lives. It is felt this study, in connection with the theology lessons, will lead to the reading of the four gospels in their completeness, together with the account of Christ's coming to the American Continent as recorded in Third Nephi of the Book of Mormon. The titles and objectives of the lessons for'1950-51 are as follows: Lesson g. "Come and Follow Me" (Matt. 19:21). Objective: To call to mind that there is a path which, if followed, will lead to happiness here and hereafter.
Lesson 10. "Take Ye Heed, Watch and Pray" (Mark 13:33). Objective:, To bring out the vital power of prayer, and the need for habitual prayer.
Lesson 11. "Search the Scriptures for They Are They Which Testify of Me" (John 5:39). Objective: To give incentive for a greater familiarity with the scriptures, particularly those in the Book of Mormon appropriate to Christmas.
Lesson 12. "For What Shall It Profit a Man If He Shall Gain the Whole World and Lose His Own Soul?" (Mark 8:36). Objective: To stress that the chief aim of life should be the saving of the soul of man.
Lesson 13. "Forgive, and Ye Shall Be Forgiven" (Luke 6:37). Objective: To define what constitutes true forgiveness and to point out why forgiveness has a two-fold aspect.
Lesson 14. "A New Commandment I Give Unto You, That Ye Love One Another As I Have Loved You" (John 13:34). Objective: To show the all-inclusiveness of the pattern of love which Christ gives us to follow.
Lesson 15. "And Jesus Answering Saith Unto Them, Have Faith in God" (Mark 11:22).
LESSON DEPARTMENT Objective: To point out that faith in God is fundamental to true success in life. Lesson 16. "Lo, I Am With You Alway, Even Unto the End of the 479
World" (Matt. 28:20). Objective: To leave a concluding message of hope and comfort in all the homes visited. Ussiting Seacher ITlessages— Our