[Vol37 | July 1950 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Fiction | Title: 463 The Story of English China | Author: Rachel K. Laurgaard]
English tongue, knew mankind so well that, as he re-created their foibles and strengths, he became for the moment whatever character he was creating, and thus became all men. An attempt to construct a biography or a clear word picture of Shakespeare from his works meets with failure. Laborious research by Shakespearean scholars has amassed some knowledge of the poet's life, but it has largely failed to give us a personality we can understand and know. The creation of such quantity and quality, the perfection of so many varied characterizations, and the genius of word usage and dramatic power, serve to hide rath- LESSON DEPARTMENT er than to reveal Shakespeare, the man. In sharpest contrast, the writings of Milton picture Milton as both a man of action and a thinker. One writer has said that in his great scholarship and ability he represents the whole range of the Renaissance —the best type of classical scholar and the best type of Puritanism— yet he is ever apparent in everything he wrote. His beliefs, born of his scholarship and inspiration, are his works. A reader cannot escape knowing John Milton from his writings. As we come to recognize the dominance of his almost fierce integrity, we are then ready to realize that the lofty vision, the high resolve, the vast industry and intellectual strength, the moral courage, and the self-sufficient independence which characterized his life are the basic characteristics as well of his magnificent, uncompromising art. In the essential Protestant spirit of purifying (or Puritanizing), Milton protested man's tendency to believe in relatively false conventions, governments, and churches rather than obeying the divine Reason within himself. In_ his lifetime, therefore, he flung his entire physical and intellectual energies into the fight against Pope and king, social convention, and moral cowardice. His goal: to achieve the right for men to exercise free will. If ever there was proof that the pen is mightier than the sword, it is Milton's Areopagitica (a red pa ji' ti ca), (see text, page 705) one of the greatest pleas for freedom of thought ever penned. Similar proof is to be found in Paradise Lost, the pinnacle of Mil- 485 ton's genius, and hardly less than the best that can be found in English literature. From his nineteenth year Milton had dedicated his life to writing such an epic. After receiving his M. A. Degree at Cambridge he spent six years at Horton in intense study. He next began a leisurely tour of Europe, thus hoping to broaden his cultural background, but returned home abruptly in 1639 when the political and religious situation in Fingland became unbearable. He gave almost the next twenty years of his life to the Puritan cause. In 1640, just before Milton began writing his forceful pamphlets defending his cause, he felt he was ready to begin his great epic work. The long list of subjects he drew up at this time is now in Trinity College, Cambridge. He had dreamed of writing an epic about King Arthur which would honor English nationalism, just as Homer and Virgil had honored their nations in epic poetry. He also was fascinated at this time with the story of Adam's fall, and composed four rough drafts, entitled the most complete one, "Adam Unparadized." He had actually started work on the Arthurian epic, but found it too large a subject. Meanwhile King Arthur's myth lad been adopted and popularized by Milton's enemies, the Royalists. Later, when the Puritan Commonwealth was repudiated by England, how could he write an epic honoring a country which had for him failed so miserably? Just when the final version of the Adam epic was begun, we are not certain, but it was probably about 486. 1658. We do know that Paradise Lost was registered and ready for sale August 20, 1667, and that it was originally published in ten books, rather than the present twelve. Upon publication, Milton received the first of four payments of five pounds; and when he died his widow settled for an additional eights pounds. From the beginning the poem sold well. The curious were interested to know what a once-proud and powerful Puritan would have to say to his victorious contemporary enemies 'The bold innovations of his style and verse-form appealed to the learned and the scholarly. But its primary appeal was the fervor and sublimity of its poetic force. Here indeed was pure poetry, the outpourings of a soul at once impassioned, unbelievabley deep and broad, and entirely free. When the poem was first read by John Dryden, one of the most wise and influential critics and authors of the age, he said, "This man cuts us all out, and the ancients, too." Stripped to its bare essentials, the plot of Paradise Lost is extremely simple, having its origin in Genesis. Satan, originally the first Archangel of Heaven, has been forced out of Heaven with his Legions because they fought against God for elevating Christ to the place of honor. Hurled into Hell, he plots with his leaders to take revenge on God by