[Social Science—"The Progress of Man," Preview]

Social Science— The Progress of Man Part I—The Lesson of History Preview of Lessons for 1950-51
Elder Archibald F. Bennett E live in perilous times. The threat of impending war is ever present—war on a scale heretofore unimagined, with the use of weapons that might well cause destruction of whole nations.
Revolutionary political theories clamor for recognition, battling with the old, and count their devotees by the millions.
Tried and trusted standards of morals and government are being ruthlessly discarded.
Ours ls a momentous day of transition, fraught with tremendous dangers. As never before we need an unerring guide. The experiences of the past, if rightly interpreted, can aid the world in its present dilemma.
What we need is history from a heavenly viewpoint—a skyview of human happenings. It requires the inspiration of the Lord to understand and properly appraise the lesson of human events.
Modern revelation has giv- — en us this very key to the occurrences of history, with the Lord's own interpretation. In the light of this new knowledge it was possible and urgent to revise the histories written by scholarly but uninspired men. The Prophet Joseph Smith led the way with his illuminating article on 490 "The Government of God' (Lesson 7); and by other teachings given by him.
Succeeding leaders have continued to emphasize cardinal, guiding principles. It remained for one well-informed in both history and the revealed word of God to harmonize the facts from both fields and portray anew the true meaning of past.
Events and present problems.
Such a penetrating analysis is the text for the present year, The Progress of Man, written by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith, an apostle of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and its Church historian. It is an outline history of man interpreted in the light of revelation. It tells of the nobility and excellence of the first man, and the glory of his opportunities. In the lights and shades of the vicissitudes of subsequent generations, we discern the great truth that righteousness leads always to the heights of civilization; that "wickedness never was happiness' nor progress, but leads always to degradation and destruction. History, we learn, is not a gradual and continuous ascent from lower levels to higher, but a series of advancements or declines, according as the nations of men have hearkened unto or forsaken ~ ' The Gospel Kingdom (Pres. John Taythe commandments of God. In this everlasting conflict between good and evil, light and darkness, freedom and oppression, we can see the final and destined triumph of truth.
Individuals have failed woefully; whole nations have gone down into the depths of degbut the radation and_ oblivion, righteous men will, in the end, prevail in righteousness and achieve  their ultimate destiny as children of God the Father.
These lessons here presented are an abridgment of the above text. The actual words of the author have been retained, rearranged to conform to the selected sequence of lesson topics. Part I, consisting of seven lessons for 1950-51, has for its theme "The Lesson of History." Part II, with a like number for 1951-52, ls entitled "From Darkness into Dawn," and portrays the determined struggle of man through the Dark and Middle and early Modern Ages for freedom in thought, in religion, and government. Part III, for 1952-53, "In the Way of Destiny," will point the way through the present perils to the glorious final destiny of exalted man upon a celestial earth. The class leader from the beginning should have access to the complete text of The Progress~ of Man, and consult freely the copious scriptural references given therein. In addition, she should read, generously, standard texts in history and those volumes available giving the teachings of our inspired leaders, such as: Teachings of the Prophet _ Joseph Smith; Discourses of Brigham Young; lor); The Discourses of President Wilford Woodruff; Gospel Doctrine (Pres. Joseph F. Smith); Gospel Standards (Pres. Heber J. Grant); and the sermons, writings, and comments on world conditions and events by President George Albert Smith, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., President David O. McKay, and other Church leaders who guide us. The titles and objectives of the lessons follow: LESSON DEPARTMENT PART I. THE LESSON OF HISTORY Lesson 1.