[Vol26 | August 1939 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: The Magazine A Medium Robinson]

The Magazine, A Medium For Growth By Dorothy Clapp Robinson (Conference Address, Magazine Department)
GROWTH, as I see it, is a lifting up to higher ideals, a reaching out to broader activities, an expansion of vision that develops sympathy and understanding. To what extent does the Magazine promote such development?
Years of reading and study have indicated five points of growth. While easily identified, there is no sharp distinction between them, for each unites with and supplements the others. These points are: Intellectual, social, creative, vision and spiritual.
INTELLECTUAL: To stimulate intellectual growth one must have mental food that is timely, instructive, thought-provoking and challenging. All material in the Magazine may be said to come under this head it is true, yet the lessons and a certain type of article especially promotes this growth.
SOCIAL: In this line the Magazine offers a great deal. The Social Service and Family Relationship lessons not only prepare our women to fit into community betterment programs but actually help prevent community delinquency by developing them into better wives and mothers. These lessons are excellent supplementary material for students of sociology. Articles on sociology and social legislation are timely and tied to our everyday living. The Magazine keeps us informed about the Church Welfare Program which, to me, is the most significant social movement of our time. Up-to-date information and instruction on Relief Society welfare work is also contained in the Magazine.
CREATIVE: What a world of opportunity that word covers. Did you know the Magazine is doing a unique work in helping to develop writers of the Intermountain West? It offers a sympathetic, understanding market, while in no way letting down the bars to admit sloppy work. I have been especially interested in the growth of poets in the Church as evidenced by the Eliza R. Snow poetry contest. Some of our poets are taking a place among the outstanding poets of the nation.
While not much space is devoted to art, the make-up of the Magazine is a work of art. The paper is easy on tired eyes. The type is easily read by young and old. The art reproduced is of the highest type and fosters an appreciation of the same. I especially like the illustrated poems used as frontispieces. The love and knowledge of music is being definitely fostered in the wards and stakes by the illustrations of and notes about the Singing Mothers as well as by the Music Department proper.
So much for the finer arts. In the interest of creative work done with the hands there is no end of suggestions: Fancywork, remodeling hints, recipes, illustrations, gardening, notes on Mormon Handicraft and Deseret Industries. Every issue contains something along these lines. The articles on nutrition have a money value for any homemaker. This point of growth appeals to a wide range of readers, from the weaver of words to the cook.
What is VISION? To me it is seeing beyond present obstacles to future opportunity. It is finding new ways to present old material. It is having faith in the future in spite of present discouragement. A prophet said that without it the people perish. Certainly growth is the result of vision. Unless its officers have vision Relief Society can never accomplish that for which it was organized.
The Magazine broadens the vision of Relief Society officers. To agents and membership coordinators the use of the Magazine is imperative. How can they transmit a vision of the work without it? To tell all the essential features of Relief Society would take more time than any one woman has to spare. A magazine can tell it in odd moments over a period of time.
Husbands, through the Magazine, may get a vision of the power and scope of Relief Society. Too often their knowledge of it is limited to the work done by their wives. Given understanding they will give their support more freely.
Bishops who need a comprehensive view of the work can find it here and can also find help in directing their welfare work.
Lay members find many avenues of development in the pages of the Magazine. Through it they may contact the minds and personalities of the General Board. They may read about other women and thus make their own problems easier to solve. They may find out what is going on in the wards, stakes, and missions and gain a viewpoint that cannot be obtained from attendance at meetings alone. A world view of Relief Society may be obtained?what it stands for, what it is accomplishing, its place among world organizations. This alone is justification for the Magazine's existence.
SPIRITUAL: In the teaching of children educators acknowledge two kinds of learning. The first is that which comes by word of mouth from the teacher or through books. The second comes by virtue of what the teacher is: Her poise, her voice, her ethics?in short, her personality.
The Magazine has a definite and dynamic personality. Greater than facts, more far-reaching than precepts is the influence of its strong, spiritual personality. It is around and about and through every line of every issue. To place one's finger on the reasons for this is not easy, but editorials, inferences, theology lessons, absence of questionable advertising, stories of people of high moral integrity, each has its influence; but the greatest reason is the spirit back of the work.
Here then is material?a ladder for growth. What is done with it depends on the individual.