[Vol26 | August 1939 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: The Touch of the Master Lee]

Brown, yellow, red, or white, He's the animation of the sod, The touch of the master Artist The personality of God. ?Lorine Hutchinson Lee.
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology and Testimony
John The Beloved
Lesson 2
Helpful References. James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 693, 694, 716-718, 720. A. B. Bruce, The Training of the Twelve, consult index under heading of John, and Peter and John. W. M. Mackay, The Men Whom Jesus Made, pp. 57-75. F. J. Mueller, Christ's Twelve, pp. 49-53. E. F. Scott, The Literature of the New Testament, pp. 260-284.
THE EPISTLES OF JOHN.?It is appropriate in our Theology lessons to become acquainted with the literature attributed to John and the trends of modern thought concerning it. In this lesson we shall, therefore, consider the Epistles of John and the Apocalypse, or Book of Revelation, in addition to other matters of importance.
The First Epistle of John contains five chapters while the other two contain but one short chapter each. Many of the best scholars of our day are willing to admit that these epistles are all written by the same author who was in turn the author of the Fourth Gospel. We shall therefore assume on the basis of what was said in the last lesson that they were written by the Apostle John.
The second and third letters contain little of doctrinal significance, and we may pass them by. The first letter is in the form of a written sermon which has little or no ordered plan. John's main purpose seems to have been to exhort and confirm the members of the early church in the faith. He expressly intimates that what he tells them is not new; his desire is to give them a firm assurance that the knowledge which they already have will save them. (See I John 2:7; 2:20 4:16; 5:13) As professor Scott says, "He does not lecture his readers, but talks to them, and to its artless, spontaneous character the charm of his letter is largely due. We feel as if he is engaged in meditation and allows us to overhear his thoughts as they arise in his mind."
Still there seem to be three main ideas around which his meditation revolves: (Scott)
(1) The test of ethical conduct. "And hereby we do know that we know him, if we keep his commandments. He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him." (I John 2:3, 4)
(2) The test of belief. "Hereby know ye the Spirit of God: And every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God: And every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of God." (I John 4:2, 3)
(3) The test of brotherly love. "Beloved, let us love one another: for love is of God; and every one that loveth is born of God, and knoweth God. He that loveth not knoweth not God; for God is love." (I John 4:7, 8)
It would appear from the general tenor of the letter that a division had taken place in the Church. Certain members were attracted by heretical or "liberal" teachings, which appeared to offer them "deeper truth and a larger liberty than the traditional Gospel". Probably the remainder of saints, honest and straightforward folk, not pretending to much intellectuality, were puzzled and troubled by the division. John's letter reassures them and lays down the tests by which any sincere member of the church may test the validity of his faith. Most of the ideas in John's Gospel reappear in the Epistle, but in a more brief and general form.
SOME VIEWS CONCERNING THE BOOK OF REVELATION. ? The Book of Revelation was traditionally assumed to have been written by the Apostle John. Today, however, few scholars believe him to have been its author. Neither do they believe it refers to the distant future. "More important," says Dr. E. F. Scott, "has been the recognition, on the part of almost all scholars, that it was meant for its own time. The old assumption was that it had reference to a distant future, and endless attempts were made to apply its prophecies to the events and personages of later history, and to the coming destinies of the world. This was a strange error, since the writer himself declares more than once that he is dealing with his own age."
Most writers declare the Revelation to be of a type of apocalyptic literature very common in New Testament times. Note the following description by Scott: "Most of the Christian apocalypses were probably never committed to writing. By their nature they were ecstatic utterances, thrown out by 'prophets' when suddenly possessed by the Spirit. They would hardly be intelligible to those who spoke and heard them, and would be forgotten as soon as the momentary excitement was past. But there was one Christian apocalypse which was written down and preserved... From the book of Revelation, we learn something of what the mass of Christians in that age were thinking. It was written for the people, and reflects the beliefs and emotions of the plain men and women who must always make up the great majority of the Christian church."
That John never wrote the Revelation and that it has nothing to do with the future are views that should be scrutinized in the light of modern revelation. In the previous lesson it was pointed out that Nephi was told by a heavenly messenger that an apostle of the Lamb should "write concerning the end of the world" whose name was John (I Nephi 14:18-27). The book of Revelation we pointed out fits this statement better than any other we know. Then in the seventy-seventh section of the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord reveals certain keys for understanding the book of Revelation. John is expressly referred to as "the Revelator". (See verse 2) A close reading of the revelation definitely shows that John did write concerning events that are still future. Modern critical interpretations of this book of Revelation at best can only be partly right, certainly not completely, in the light of what the Lord says. It is then the business of teachers of the Gospel not to perpetuate the errors made by uninspired men.
SOME TEACHINGS OF THE REVELATION OF JOHN.? In the first chapter of the Revelation the circumstances under which John received his mighty vision are recorded. He was on the Isle of Patmos, presumably in bondage to the Romans when he received the manifestation on the "Lord's day". He was told to write what he saw in a book and send it to "the seven churches; to Ephesus, and to Smyrna, and to Pergamos, and to Thyatira, and to Sardis, and to Philadelphia, and to Laodicea." (Rev. 1:11) Doubtless they are what we should today call seven branches of the church. John was further instructed to write "the things which are about to take place after these". (Rev. 1:19) We can readily understand that some of John's writing dealt with contemporary matters, others with future events.
Chapters two and three contain instructions directed to the seven church branches. Each was reproved or blessed as conditions demanded. The interpretation of many important matters in chapters 4-11 are contained in D. & C. 77. The reader should also consult D. & C. 130:10 which helps us understand Rev. 2:17. Why the Prophet interpreted the Revelation to the eleventh chapter only we do not know. However, much of what follows, even though incompletely understood, manifestly pertains to the future viewed from John's day?yes, and even as viewed from our own time. Certainly Rev. 14:6, 7 has in recent times been partly fulfilled (see D. & C. 133:36-38), and Rev. 14:1 is yet to be fulfilled (See D. & C. 133:18). The chapters of the Revelation which follow mostly appear to await future fulfillment. John saw the thousand years of the Millennium when Satan is to be bound (Rev. 20:1-3 and compare D. & C. 29:22) and even the winding up scene in which there is to be a "new heaven and a new earth". (Rev. 21: 1 and compare D. & C. 29:23-29). The Revelation of John is in complete harmony with other revelations of the Lord pertaining to the future destiny of this earth and its glorification, the teachings of men to the contrary notwithstanding.
THE GLORIOUS MISSION OF THE APOSTLE JOHN.?The seventh section of the Doctrine and Covenants clearly points out that John never tasted death, but was to remain upon the earth until the Lord's advent in glory in order to bring souls unto him. What a great and marvelous work John has undoubtedly accomplished throughout the ages! The Prophet Joseph Smith tells us that in the thirties of the past century the Revelator went among the Ten Tribes to prepare them for their gathering to Zion. (See Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, p. 126) It appears that John still has a great work to do in helping to gather scattered Israel and in bringing to pass their redemption.
Questions and Problems (Deal only with those that time and circumstances permit.)
1. Have someone report on specific teachings of interest in I John.
2. Who was the individual that appeared to John on the Isle of Patmos? (See E. F. Parry, Joseph Smith's Teachings, 3rd ed., p. 186 or Hist. Of the Church, Vol. IV, p. 4)
3. Have someone report on the references made by Joseph Smith to the book of Revelation as given in Parry's, Joseph Smith's Teachings, pp. 44-47.
4. Have a member of the class show how D. & C. 77 helps in the interpretation of certain chapters of the Revelation of John.
5. Name all the individuals you can who, like John, were translated.
6. Let some member of the class consult a good encyclopedia on apocalyptic literature and report her findings.