[Vol26 | August 1939 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: Messages to the]

Plan for Visiting Teacher Department
MESSAGES TO THE HOME
No. 2 Unity
"That whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind, striving together for the faith of the Gospel." ?Phil. 1:27.
MOST of the worth while things in the world have been accomplished through the principle of friendly cooperation. This is not a new principle; nor peculiar to the Latter-day Saint Church; it is as old as the society of men. It is essential to progress, whether in family, community or national life.
Unity comes from seeing eye to eye, from understanding born of knowledge, from perfect honesty, unselfishness, and love. The Master gave the pattern. He prayed for His apostles, "that they may be one even as you and I are one." ?John 17:22. To Latter-day Saints the principle is revealed anew, "I say unto you be one; and if ye are not one ye are not mine." Doc and Cov. 38:27.
Upon the principle of unity the Church has grown in strength and influence. The quotation from Longfellow may well be applied: "All your strength is in your union; all your danger is in discord."
Our faith today must be concentrated in one great work, the building of the kingdom of God on earth. Those who keep this faith are united, of one heart and of one mind. "And because the Saints have free access to the Holy Spirit and may walk within His light and fellowship, and possess the intelligence which He is able to impart, a stricter harmony among the Saints may be insisted upon than in any other organization of men whatsoever."
"Unity in God's work is the strength of Zion."
Questions
1. Analyze causes of lack of unity among Church membership.
2. Point out instances in Church history where dissension has retarded progress.
3. What is our individual responsibility toward unifying Church membership?
Literature
THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL
Lesson 2
"Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc"
LOUIS KOSSUTH, the great Hungarian patriot, makes the following statement: "Consider this unique and imposing distinction. Since the writing of human history began, Joan of Arc is the only person, of either sex, who has ever held supreme command of the military forces of a nation at the age of seventeen."
Book II, In Court and Camp, begins with a most touching farewell of Joan to her native village and her loved ones. She said: "The time is come. My voices are not vague now, but clear, and they have told me what to do. In two months I shall be with the Dauphin."
Her father was bitterly opposed to her course and did everything he could to restrain his daughter from taking any part in the war. This was a source of great sorrow to Joan, as she had always been most obedient to her parents' wishes, and it caused her great anguish to have to leave without their blessing. She had a premonition that she would never return. There was no thought of turning back, however. "And Joan took one long look back upon the distant village, and the Fairy Tree, and the oak forest, and the flowery plain, and the river, as if she was trying to print these scenes on her memory so that they would abide there always and not fade, for she knew she would not see them any more in this life."
The people now recalled an ancient prophecy made by the Welsh prophet Merlin, in the fifth century, to the effect that France would be lost by a woman, and that she would be saved by a maid. Many felt that Isabel of Bavaria, wife of the king of France, was responsible for the betrayal of the country because of her influence in the humiliating treaty with Henry V of England. They saw Joan of Arc as the maid who was sent by heaven to complete the prophecy.
It was Joan's plan to go first to the governor of the province, to secure his aid so that she could go on to the Dauphin. She won the hearts of the common people everywhere, but it was more difficult to convince the governor and his advisors. Joan waited patiently and worked at household tasks to pay for her lodging. She was absolutely unshaken in her story that "voices" from heaven instructed her, and though by nature most modest and retiring, she was never confused in the presence of high officials nor in doubt as to the course she should take.
It will be recalled that this was her second visit to Robert de Baudricourt, governor of the province. More than a year before he had sent her back to her home, but this time, though he at first refused to send her to the King, she said: "I must still come to you until I get the men-at-arms; for so it is commanded, and I may not disobey. I must go to the Dauphin though I go on my knees."
Her persistence and her sincerity impressed the governor to such an extent that he decided she was either a witch or a saint, and he was determined to find out which it was. He brought a priest to her, but the priest could find no devil. It must be remembered that this was two centuries before the Reformation, and the church held absolute sway over the minds and lives of the people. All authorities are agreed that Joan was deeply spiritual and devotedly attached to her religion, but neither the priests nor state officials nor her loved ones could shake her belief that she was commissioned of God to rescue France. "But indeed I would rather spin with my poor mother, for this is not my calling, but I must do it, for it is my Lord's will."
The governor was disturbed; he did not know what to do. At last Joan went to the castle and said, "My voices have brought the word to me, and it is true. A battle was lost today, and you are in fault to delay me so."