Points for Poets to Remember Eva Willes Wangsgaard Author of Singing Hearts, Down This Road, After the Blossoming, Within the Root VERY published poem has won a contest because it was chosen from many contributions, the greatest percentage of which had to be sent back. What makes a poem? Chiefly emotion and originality (that originality inherent in personality, which is the only originality since Eve), clothed in appropriate and effective words and arranged in a form suitable to the subject. Suppose we want to write a poem, what do we seek first? The idea with the poet's personality attached to it, what she feels and thinks about a particular situation, circumstance, heartbreak, or other experience. How do we go about it? We con it over very close to our hearts, letting it stir and grow from the very depths of our beings, thinking, utterly alone, far removed in thought from surroundings, people, and things, until the idea is rooted and sprouting. The chances are that it will somehow know whether to be an oak or a maple, just as a seedling does. I let a poem take its form from the emotion it rouses in me and hope that it will stir my readers to feel what I am feeling. But if it does not choose the proper form, it is a cripple and will not produce the desired effect. Some poets build poems with a conscious choice of form to fit the emotion they expect to arouse. If you choose your form, then do it surely. In order to do this you must make yourself a master of form. Any good rhyming dictionary carries a chapter or two on meter, forms, and patterns, with a discussion of what scholars have learned about their use and effects on readers. Also, any poet who wishes to increase the quality and effectiveness of her work should provide herself with a good basic textbook on poetry writing and should study it diligently. All of us have poetic ideas, but we must learn to express these ideas in a way which will be understandable and pleasing to others. A technical training is just as essential for poetry as it is for music or painting or sculpture or any of the other arts. Practice in following the various forms and patterns of poetry will make them so much a part of you that they will be waiting inside to come when you need them. Many poems appeal because of their form and rhythm which make the reader feel the sensation the poet wishes to portray. Activities such as swinging, flying, rowing, walking, have inherent rhythms. Poems need portray no very deep philosophy if they stir the reader with emotion and memories. Many poets object to strict forms in poetry as a hindrance to thought processes, but I find form an aid to good results. It furnishes the music which is the chief agent in stirring emotion and it disciplines the poet to choose her words carefully. In order to fill the form to its fullest Page 371 372 capacity a poet must think deeply and prune conscientiously. 'This makes for better thinking, deeper feeling, and so, of course, for better poetry. However, if a poet lazily fills in lines with wordage like lumpy cotton batting, the poem will be loose and the form will show through above the idea and will make a bad poem. Careless and uninspired work is always bad. It is not the form, but the poet's hitching a ride on the form, which hurts a poem. MAGERY is another aid to a poet, giving her a chance to paint a picture, stir an appropriate emotion, and put a profound concept into a concrete form which might have been ponderous and have fallen unheeded without this path to the heart. 'Take this from "Between Seasons": He who alone stands watching summer go Southward on wings and earthward in a leaf Feeling all time in one relentless flow, Longs for a portion he may hold in brief. Here you see the man standing out beneath the sky, the leaves falling, the migrant geese flying, and feel the swift passage of summer and youth. You long with him to grasp a portion to hold in your hand a little longer as proof that you had it, but feel the futility, with time slipping farther and farther away. Or take: When I consider that a century Has gone as windswept appleblossoms go Here you tie the passing of a hundred years to a common experience of the here and now. Allusions help to stir memories and say much in few words, as: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 Denied the Star, the Mount, the Fatal || Here the life of Christ is referred to by the sign of his birth, the star, the Mount of Olives, and Calvary Hill where his sacrifice was consummated. Now let's take up a few of the dont's of poetry writing. Don't invert for the sake of rhyme. An inversion is a change in the natural order of word arrangement. In conversation we might say: The birds flew south. But the amateur poet might say: South flew the birds. This would be an inversion. To invert in order that a word or phrase may be given added emphasis for a purpose is good, but to turn a sentence inside out like a schoolboy's sweater just to make rhyming easy shows laziness or thoughtlessness and puts the work on the reader. Inversions were never good form. Poets have used inversions because people like to hear rhymes, and by inverting a line a poet could get words that were easy to rhyme and saved the effort of finding harder ones. There was a time when few readers objected to inversions and therefore poets did not bother to eradicate these faults in composition. However, times have changed, and we must now strive harder, or we shall be left behind. We have a much more widely read and exacting audience today. The more sensitive the reader, the more he will appreciate good workmanship, and the more quickly he will be offended by careless composition. Always reach for the best in your readers. Contractions, also, are character- POINTS FOR POETS TO REMEMBER istic of amateurish and _ carelessly written poetry. Don't say o'er for over, because such uses are tricks to make the meter come out even, and tricks may be fun, but they are never honest, and poetry must be sincere. The same thing is true of e'er for ever, 'neath for beneath, tis for it is, and many other contractions that are not in accepted usage today. 'There was a time when it was the style for meter to dominate the idea in popular poetry, but that style became obsolete long ago, and it shows a sort of artificiality that is displeasing to discriminating readers today. Poetry is very close to human hearts and a vital means of communication; it should be both direct and sincere. "Poeticisms" and old-fashioned words and expressions like ere and yesteryear should be avoided. If you would not use a word in a letter to a friend or in intimate conversation, the chances are that it will sound false in a poem, too. This doesn't tefer, of course, to words in a wider vocabulary than one usually employs in speech, only to style. Many carefully written poems need revision for strengthening weak phrases or lines or for smoothing sounds and freshening imagery. A real craftsman cares enough for her poem to tear it phrase from phrase and put it back together, like a good watchmaker repairing a fine watch. 373 I like to feel that my poems are true, not only in general, but in every part, having no false word or untrue analogy to mar the truth. Sometimes critics are mistaken because they lack specific information or interpret experiences differently, but a poet can develop the ability to hear an inner bell that rings when the truth is sounded and reject the comments and criticisms that do not help. If some word or phrase in one of my poems offends a sensitive reader, I can usually dive back under and come up with something that pleases both of us and have a stronger poem for the revision. But if a change does not ring as true to me as the original, I would not change it to suit the greatest critic I know. The poet is the final judge. "To thine own self be true Thou canst not then be false..." be it a poem or anything else you wnite. Books to Study New Rhyming Dictionary and Poet's Handbook, Burges Johnson, Harpers, New York, $2.50. Wood's Unabridged Rhyming Dictionary, Clement Wood, The World Publishing Company, Cleveland, Ohio, $3.50. How to Revise Your Own Poems, Anne Hamilton, The Writer, Inc., 8 Arlington Street, Boston, Massachusetts, $1.50. An Editor Looks at Poetry, Stanton A. Coblentz, Wings Press, Mill Valley, California, $2.00. The Art of Versification, J. Berg Esenwein and Mary Eleanor Roberts, The Home Correspondence School, Springfield, Mass, $3.00. ~~ >_> A Memory Evelyn Fyjeldsted Because of love so perfectly attuned, ~The memory of her laughter may not be A memory, but is laughter faintly heard From realms of immortality.