Rescue That Little Rocker Rachel K. Laurgaard N how many junk-filled attics does Grandmother's little, old sewing rocker stand forlornly gathering dust and cobwebs, its cane seat poked through, awaiting the coming of the itinerant chair-mender, who will never pass this way again! Sometimes it rocks dejectedly on the back porch through sunshine and through rain until, falling apart, it is tossed on the woodpile or carried off by the junkman. Such a pity it is for this quaint piece to come to so neglected an end, when it might still grace a fireside or add charm to a period bedroom! No piece of solid wood furniture is ever in too hopeless a state to be refinished or repaired. 'True, the upholstery may be worn and soiled —tear it off and throw it away. The pretty natural markings of its wood may be concealed by layers of dark varnish and paint—scrape them off. A few hours of effort and a little application of elbow grease will reward you with a chair of which you can well be proud. To transform the rocker, you will need a can of paint and varnish remover, a putty knife or scraper, a file for the rungs and corners where the paint clings so tenaciously, sandpaper, boiled linseed oil, and turpentine., First, spread plenty of newspapers down and go after the old finish. 414 If your chair has been painted and repainted several times, it may take a couple of coats of paint remover to get it clean. The more work you let the paint remover do, the less work there will be for the sandpaper—and you. Scrape off the gummy paint with the putty knife, being careful not to gouge the wood. Dry it off thoroughly, and file and sandpaper it smooth. Some woods are softer and easier to work with than others, If you are lucky enough to have a walnut chair, you can get a smooth satiny finish in a comparatively short time. Maple and oak are harder. Always sandpaper with the grain. Coarse sandpaper will gouge walnut, but you may have to resort to it on badly scarred maple or oak. But be careful! Coarse sandpaper cuts deeply. A medium grade is the safest, and, for the final smoothing, use only the very finest. F your little rocker has become unglued or broken, you will probably find it more convenient to send it Out fo a fix-it shop for repairs. Furniture clamps are a necessity for a good job of re-gluing. Sometimes, however, it is an easy matter to glue a loose joint or two and. By means RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1949 of a well-placed screw, hold them securely. Small metal angles or flat sttips with holes for screws can be used to advantage to strengthen the seat from beneath. Now for the finishing process! If the wood is walnut, use walnut oil stain sparingly, and after that has dried, walnut wood filler, to fill the pores. When this has set for the required length of time, rub in a mix. Ture of boiled linseed oil and turpentine—two-thirds linseed oil to onethird turpentine. The finest of hand-rubbed furniture has a finish Impervious to water, achieved by the application of several coats of oil, with light sandpaper between cach coat. In fact, if you have real patience, eliminate the stain entirely and darken the wood slowly by rubbing in repeated coats of oil. However, if you wish to finish your little rocker quickly, two coats of oil are enough, with a good coat of liquid floor wax to top it off. Oak, maple, birch, and any others of the lighter woods are very nice finished in their natural color without benefit of stain. With oak, an oak filler may be used to seal the pores, or you may merely oil and wax it. Maple and birch are so RESCUE THAT LITTLE ROCKER close-grained that they don't need a filler. OUR little rocker is now ready for its covering. If it was in a good state of repair and had never had other covering than the caning, you may like to have it re-caned. This, of course, is the authentic thing to do and, perhaps in your community, there is an elderly cabinet-maker who, in his youth, learned the almost extinct art of caning. But cane seats are perishable, unfortunately, and long before your little rocker was relegated to the attic, it probably had a succession of makeshift seats tacked onto it. If such is the case, and there are many nail holes close to the caning holes, it will be better to fill them with plastic wood and do an upholstering job. This will not be difficult. Five yards of upholsterer's webbing, and plenty of tacks will do the trick. Fold the ends of two or three strips of the webbing, depending on the size of the seat, along the front, as close to the inside edge as possible, without danger of splitting or weakening the wood. Pull each strip so tight it twangs. 'Turn under and tack similarly to the back edge. Then attach three more strips to one side, 415 weave them through the first three strips, and attach firmly to the other side. 'The tighter the webbing is stretched, the less sag will develop in the seat. Do the back in a like mannet. Now stretch a piece of burlap or canvas over the webbing and tack down. If you can, use horsehair or upholster's moss for padding, especially for the seat. Old horsehair should be washed and dried in the sun to restore its springiness. But any sort of cotton batting will do very well and, in case you do use hair or moss, be sure to cover it with a layer of cotton so that it won't poke through the cover. Remember that the stuffing will pack down considerably, so use plenty of it, and cover this with muslin. Needlepoint or tapestry may be tacked on with small upholsterer's tacks, with matching braid glued around the edge, and caught with a curved needle and thread. Brassheaded tacks make a neat finish, too. Ruffled calico or chintz is best sewed onto the muslin cover, to make it easily removable for washing. There now, aren't you proud of your handiwork! And can't you just see Grandmother's eyes light up as she sees you rocking in her little chair? ___OoOO Oo —- --———