Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER 6 Synopsis: Joanna, who had married David Niels against the wishes of her family, is left a widow with four children to support and care for. Courageously, she takes inventory of her meager resources and plans for the future. A neighbor gives her a sack of navy beans and Joanna decides to make Boston-baked beans for sale. Another neighbor, Abigail Smith, offers to help with ideas and transportation.. From a slow and unpromising beginning, they build a profitable business. Joanna rears her children with love and devotion and, after years of careful saving, she plans to buy a house on a hill. A real estate salesman, Kent Taylor, takes Joanna to see a house he has for sale. The chill air. Everything seemed different. Not just another autumn, this had a secret exciting something in it, as if the days had something special to give her. He turned up the hill that led toward the Capitol. "This is the best way to get to the house the long way around." "But I'm so busy," Joanna answered breathlessly, "besides, I have to be home by three-thirty. The children get out of school then, and you must have a lot of customers waiting." He said loftily, ""They are Mother's. Let 'em wait. Besides they are all very old, or fat, or... Anyway, this is a lot more fun." Laughter began a slow growing in Joanna, not the ready laughter she had for her children, or the neighborly laughter for Abigail's tart comments, but a laughter from Page 416 Jthe« took a deep breath of deep within, as when winter withdraws, foot by foot, and spring begins her tasks. It was like that, as though her heart had been enclosed in ice and was now breaking free. The house was an old one, but well-built. It stood high up from the street, and was reached by climbing a flight of stairs. Lawns sloped sharply to the street. The porch was in need of paint, but it was wide and long, plenty of space for Sally and Michael and their friends. The living room was long, too. It boasted a window seat. Against the east wall was a brick fireplace, painted white to match the woodwork. The floors were hardwood, recently sanded and waxed. Joanna caught her breath when she saw the dining room. It had such possibilities. Stairs ran up the west wall to the second floor; under the high east windows were shelves. The paper was beautifully patterned, green leaves and traceries, giving the effect of summer sun and cheerful shade. Joanna touched the paper with gentle finger tips. She looked up to find Kent Taylor's eyes on her and she blushed. She went on tiptoe into the kitchen, because suddenly their footsteps seemed very loud in the deserted house. There was an electric range. She turned to Kent Taylor, who leaned against the door. He nodded. "It goes with the house. There's a stoker downstairs, youll never have to carry another bucket of coal." JOANNA She looked down at her hands. They were gloved, but he must have noticed them. This morning, the coal dust ground into the skin. She looked out the back door. No blackened sheds, with coal dust marking a path to the door, but a white-painted garage and roses and lilac bushes around the green lawn, a peach and a chery tree to give shade as well as fruit. "I know it's going to cost more then I can pay," Joanna said. There was a bedroom downstairs and three upstairs. Joanna wove her dreams. She would take the downstairs bedroom, share it with Sally. The big bedroom, upstairs, opened onto a little screened porch. Penny would love that. David could have the next larger bedroom, and Michael would like the small one with the sloping ceiling. She turned to Kent Taylor. "But I have so little... Not enough. Not nearly enough." He whistled regretfully, "They are asking quite a little down." He helped her down the stairs. "But there is always a way to raise money." She said, wonderingly, "What on earth do you do for a living that would lead you to make a statement like that?" He grinned. His hair was very red in the sun, and she could sce the freckles spattering his skin. "I'm a writer... Of articles. That's how I know that something always turns up." "I won't borrow for a down payment," He helped her into the car and slid under the wheel. "Somehow I knew you would say that. You're 417 There's >) different, Mrs. Niels. Something about you. E told her about himself on the drive home. He was thirty-six, her age. Joanna stole a look at the blunt profile. He seemed so much younger than she, and there was no difference in their years. He had been married. She had died of injuries suffered in an accident. Kent Taylor ran his hands around the steering wheel. "T've never been able to tell anyone before, the horror of it. She was so young, so beautiful, so alive. It was strange to watch her die, the hot, quick life pouring out of her in the red flood they couldn't stop. It made me know what an enemy life is. Not to be trusted. It makes me realize what an idiot a man can be to dream. Dreams, fragile as china, as easily broken." He stared straight ahead. "Well, I've done. A good job of keeping a hop, skip, and a jump ahead of life. I'm never giving it another chance to get at me." Joanna looked at her worn gloves and listened to him. He spoke of places he had been. The glamorous names slipped lightly from his tongue, and Joanna could see him moving among the fabulous people, his red hair like a bright banner, his easy laughter winning friends on every side, and always that secret armor to keep out those who would come too close. She was sorry when they reached home. It was like stepping out of a brightly lighted world into a drab, familiar room. The little house seemed more battered than eVEr, smaller; the fence sagged. For the first time, Joanna knew a rebellion 418 against closing the door and donning the flat, comfortable shoes, poured out of the house to greet her. Penny, slim and cage, brought up the rear, "Did you find it, Mother? Did you find our house?" "All yours?" Kent asked. Joanna put her arms around Michael and Sally. "All mine." She saw the cloud obscure, for a brief moment, his laughter. "Crown jewels," he said, and the twinkle was back. « 'm_ Connie's Uncle Kent," he said to Penny. He reached in his pocket for the keys and held them out to Joanna. "Just ly on the head. 'Tll come tomor. Tow." Work can wait," he said. It's a crime not to see more of these autumn days." When he had gone the children besieged her with questions. Abigail came running over. "Where have you been? Orders have been pourIng in," Joanna chuckled. "All right, ''m y, "Td to own it. Itsa a home." GHE drove them up to the house. They shouted with joy at the Mere"@ight oft Site went ahead of them, unlocking the door with a She followed Penny up Penny went over to the door that Opened on the little porch. Her back stiffened. Was like a cry. Joanna went to her, "What is it, Penny?" Penny pointed silently below her where Joanna said, and was aware that Penny was crying. ée °. E her face on Joanna's shoulder. "It's so beautiful!" she wept. "Ij hurts me Inside, Makes me so full of I don't know what to call it." Joanna was silent, holding Penny in her arms. But the cry went up from her heart, from the very depths of the longing she had, to give her children happiness, Please, Joanna Prayed silently, please, let us have this house..". Jf it is thy will I most humbly pray. She stroked Penny's hair. "Tf it's right for us, we']] have it." "But it is night," Penny whispered. "T just know it is." (Continued on Page 427) Margaret C, Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governong the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" appear in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274.