[Vol11 | September 1924 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Literature | Title: Literature]

LESSON II WorK AND BUSINESS LESSON III (Third Week in November) ~Literature NATHANIEL HAWTHORNE'S WRITINGS Nathaniel Hawthorne married Sophie Peabody whom he had greatly admired from the first time he saw her.

His intimate association with the Peabody family brought him in close coritact with Emerson, Bronson Alcott, and his gifted daughter, Louisa May.

It was part of the philosophy of Emerson and Alcott to protest against convention, as they believed that strict adherence to it inhibited progress.

In this belief Hawthorne appears to have shared.

He was deeply interested in a study of the soul and for this reason he is often spoken of as one of the first novelists to emphasize psychology in American literature.

Still, he is not the type of psychologist that we have developed at the present time.

When we speak of Hawthorne as a psychologist, we have reference to his keen and penetrating dscription of the soul, rather than of his ability to make an exhaustive analysis of the human mind.

Hawthorne was a real Puritan in that he was deeply interested in moral ideas.

Usually he thought of the abstract moral idea, and then the plot seemed to shape itself in such a manner as to give concrete example to the abstract idea.

Hawthorne appreciated the fact that the double standard of morals in a case of sex immorality exacted a greater toll of suffering from a woman than it did from her partner in crime; consequently he yzave us The Scarlet Letter.

Hawthorne's stories are usually painted against a dark background of Puritan tradition, and in this story 'we are made to realize how keen the pangs of the Puritan conscience when condemned by the laws of God and the laws of society.

He penetrates deeply into the souls of Hester Prim and Arthur Dimmesdale, her seducer: the woman socially ostracized, the man able to conceal his wrong from the public, yet punished 
 severely by a guilty conscience.

Because of Hawthorne's depth of penetration into the souls of the leading characters of his story, he has made his book the first American classic as well as one of the classics of the world-?n this theme.

He has intensified the conflict and dramatic interest of his story by making the hero a minister, for the minister to the Puritan was the highest embodiment of morality.

He was both the spiritual and intellectual leader of Puritan society.

What the minister thought and said and did was infinitely more important than that which was thought and said and done by others, consequently, in selecting a minister as the perpetrator of the crime and a woman of his congregation to be the partner in his guilt, Hawthorne brought about a condition of conflict which is dramatic in the highest sense of the word.

In The House of Seven Gables we have the graphic painting of a story whose setting is Salem in its: days of witchcraft.

Hawthorne makes use of a curse that was pronounced on his own ancestor, John Hawthorne, who was a severe magistrate in witchcraft days.

"The glimpses of life in Salem are interesting, and the Pinchon family, around whom the story centers, are more entertaining than any other group to be found in Hawthorne's novels." The theme is the visiting of the sins of the fathers upon the heads of the children.

In this novel Hawthorne brings to the fore the emotional conflict which was so serious a part of the lives of the people of Salem, whose religion, in some instances, went beyond the bounds of helpfulness into a field of fanaticism that caused indescribable suffering.

The inspiration of The Blithedale Romance was the author's experience at Brook Farm where he, along with other literary notables of the time, was seeking to establish a community on a basis of social equality.

This book is not, as a rule, interesting to young people, but older people are interested in noting the high spirited Zenobia who is constantly bruising herself because of the narrow limitations afforded her sex at her time.

In 1860 Hawthorne published the Marble Faun.

This was written while he was abroad and is one of the early attempts on the part of American literature to make use of European material.

It was inspired by seeing the marble faun, a piece of sculpture by the Greek sculptor Praxiteles, in the Vatican Museum, at Rome.

It is a tale of mystery that would in all probability develop i in a land of art and Roman Catholicism.

Today people value the book as much for its many descriptions of places of interest in Rome as they do for the story.

It is in no small sense a guide book to Rome.

All of Hawthorne's writings were not of the gloomy sort.

In his short stories, which are among the best in American lit- oF GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 485 erature, we have some idealistic tales.

In David Swan.

The Great Stone Face, The Maypole at Merrymount, The Ambitious Guest, The Great Carbuncle, and The Wedding Knell we have a group of very exceptional short stories.

The theme is usually quite apparent in Hawthorne's short stories, indeed, he himself said of the Great Stone Face that it was somewhat marred by the certainty of the theme which is everywhere in evidence in the story.

David Swan, which is the story of fortune, good or ill, is rather pleasing in its outline, so that we include it in a condensed form in the lesson.

David lies on the bank of a river.

We knew nothing of David until we found him at the age of twenty on the highroad to the city of Boston where his uncle, a small dealer in the grocery line, was to take him behind the counter.

He was a native of New Hampshire and had received an ordinary school education with a classical finish.

After journeying on foot from sunrise until nearly noon of a summer's day, he determined to sit duwn in the first convenient shade and await the coming of the stage coach.

There soon appeared a little tuft of maples and a fresh bubbling spring.

He kissed it with his thirsty lips and then flung himself along the brink, pillowing his head upon some shirts and a pair of pantaloons tied up in a striped cotton handkerchief.

This grassy lair satisfied the young man better than a bed of down, and a deep sleep fell upon David Swan.

While he lay asleep other people were wide awake, and passed to and fro on foot and on horseback.

Some looked neither to the right hand nor to the left, some merely glanced that way, some laughed to see how soundly he slept. - David had been asleep only a few moments when a handsome pair of horses bowled easily along and were brought to a standstill at the place where he was resting.

An old couple watched him.

The longer they looked the more interested they became.

"Providence seemed to have laid him there,' whispered the wife to her husband, "and to have brought us, hither to find him after our disappointment in our cousin's son." "To what purpose," said the merchant, hesitating.

"We know nothing of the youth's character." "That open countenance, this innocent sleep," replied his wife.

While these whispers were passing, the sleeper's heart did not throb nor his breath become agitated, yet fortune was bending over him just ready to let fall a burden of gold.

"Shall we not awaken him?" repeated the lady persuasively.

"The coach is ready, sir," said the servant behind.

The old couple started, reddened, and hurried away, mutually 
 wondering that they should ever have dreamed of doing anything so very ridiculous.

Next came along a pretty girl at a tripping pace.

She turned aside into the maple trees and found there a young man asleep by the spring.

A monster of a bee had been wandering overhead amongst the leaves until finally it appears to be settling on the eyelid of David Swan.

The girl attacked the intruder with a handkerchief and drove it from the maple shade. 'H'e is handsome," thought she, and blushed redder yet.

So she came, the maid whose soul, according to the old and beautiful idea, he yearned to meet.

Her only could he love with a perfect love; him only could she receive into the depths of her heart.

Now this girl's father was a thriving country merchant in the neighborhood and happened to be looking out for just such a young man as David Swan.

Had David formed a wayside acquaintance with the daughter, he would have become the father's clerk and all else in natural succession.

Again had the best of fortune stolen so near him, yet he knew nothing of the matter.

A couple of rascals turned aside beneath the maple shade.

They planned to rob David, but the thought of his waking deterred the action.

They approached the unconscious David, and while one pointed the dagger toward his heart, the other began to search the bundle beneath his head, but at this moment a dog, scenting along the ground, came in b?neath the maple trees and gazed at these wicked men and then at the quiet sleeper.

"Pshaw," said one of the villains, "we can do nothing now, the dog's master must be close behind." In a few moments they had forgotten the whole affair, nor once imagined that the recording angel had written down the crime of murder against their souls in letters as durable as eternity.

As for David Swan, he still slept quietly, neither conscious of the shadow of death when it hung over him, nor of the flow of renewed life when that shadow was withdrawn.

But a noise of wheels came rattling louder and louder along the road, until it dashed through the dispersing mist of David's slumber; and there was the stage-coach.

He started up with all his ideas about him.

"Halloo, driver!

Take a passenger?" shouted he.

"Room on top!" answered the driver.

Up mounted David, and bowled away merrily toward Boston without so much as a parting glance at that fountain ot dreamlike vicissitude.

He knew not that a phantom of wealth had thrown a golden hue upon its waters, nor that one of love had sighed softly to their murmur, nor that one of death had threatened to crimson them with his blood, all in the brief hour since he lay down to sleep.

Sleeping or waking, we hear not the airy footsteps of the strange things that almost happen.

Does it GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 487 not argue a superintending providence that, while viewless and unexpected events thrust themselves continually athwart our path, there should still be regularity enough in mortal life to render foresight even partially available?" QUESTIONS 1. Go toa dictionary of proper names or some other equally good reference work and find out when and where Praxiteles lived and tell, if possible, some other piece of sculptor besides the Marble Faun for which he is noted. 2. In the class discuss the attitude of society at the present time toward sex crime on the part of a woman.

Have some older member of the organization tell whether the attitude is less severe today than it was thirty or forty years ago.

Whatever be the conclusion, to what do you attribute the change? 3. Name some traits of Puritan character that are admirable. 4.. What is the attitude of the American Indian towards the woman who is found to be unfaithful to her husband? 5. If you can obtain a copy of Hawthorne's story, "The Great Stone Face," have someone read it over very carefully and give the gist of it to the class.

In most of our communities this story will not be difficult to obtain.