[Vol27 | February 1940 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society and Welfare]

(To be continued)
Relief Society and Social Welfare
THAT Social Service is more than theory in the Relief Society is revealed in the numerous reports coming from the stakes. The Society has always been active in the field of maternity and child welfare, and the Snowflake Stake reports unusual success, At the Presidents Breakfast held during General Relief Society Conference, April, 1937, stake presidents were charged with the responsibility of seeing that practical nurses were available in all of the communities and that mothers be provided with good maternity care. For several years the Snowflake Stake Board had felt a growing need in the community for an increased number of practical nurses and better maternity care. In harmony with instructions, a survey of the stake nursing service was made, revealing a shortage of nurses.
After persistent efforts, the county was induced to provide a registered nurse to be stationed in the largest town in the county. The duties of this nurse were to hold maternal and child welfare clinics and to train women for practical nursing. In cooperation with the stake board, a clinic schedule and a plan for training nurses was worked out. A six-weeks nurses' training class was opened November 17, 1937, the county nurse acting as teacher. The class was made up of twenty picked women from thirteen wards of the stake as well as several board members. The Red Cross text book, "Home Hygiene And Care Of The Sick", was used. Red Cross certificates were presented to the women at the conclusion of the course.
This course was later repeated with another group of women. The stake board had formerly sponsored immunization.
This was now done at the clinics, the state furnishing Serums free of charge.
Early in January, 1938, efforts were directed toward securing a maternity hospital. By April, 1938, a trial project was promised, the state agreeing to supply hospital equipment if a suitable building could be provided. One very generous Latter-day Saint gentleman in the community gave permission to use a building he had recently purchased, and paid for remodeling it according to the doctor's specifications. He also paid for furnishings.
Generous donations in the form of dishes, layettes, bed linen, canned fruits, vegetables, honey, etc., were made by ward and stake Relief Society organizations, by the County Welfare Board and by individuals.
Arrangements were made whereby the State Board of Health agreed to pay the salary of the nurse to be placed in the maternity hospital. In January, 1939, N. Y. A.
Girls to do the cooking and laundry work and an N. Y. A. Boy to do the janitor work were promised. A hospital board was organized, the members chosen by the state nurse with the help of the stake Relief Society president, Leonora S.
Rogers who was made president of the board, with her two counselors as vice-presidents.
Since opening the hospital, January 3, 1939, the state has added one more registered nurse for night service and two practical nurses, Expectant mothers look upon this hospital as a great blessing.