[Vol27 | February 1940 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Cathedral of Peace Robinson]
Cathedral of Peace By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
RESUME
Carolyn Evans thought she was being a good wife when she worked and saved uncomplainingly. She became so absorbed in the routine of housekeeping that she failed to catch the broader vision of what a wife and mother might be. Suddenly, the knowledge is thrust upon her that she and her husband, Turner Evans, are strangers mentally and spiritually. Heartsick over his neglect, she puzzles over the situation and its cause. He sees the cause clearly. Fifteen years before, she had stopped growing mentally, while he had gone on developing steadily and consistently, However, his power and influence were more evident abroad than at home. Frustrated and disappointed with the condition of his home, he has become irritable and dictatorial. He is particularly irritated with Bob, the eldest son, because he is failing to make use of his powers, Bob is in love with June Straughn from the Elkhorn ranch but does not consider himself her equal because of the difference in their backgrounds. Carson, the second-born, is the uncertain quantity in the Evans home. He is straining against home ties and is threatening to leave. Bob goes to the Elkhorn to tell Mrs. Straughn his mother has reconsidered and will be a counselor to her in the Relief Society presidency. Splashing through West Fork on his horse, he is surprised to see June, also on horseback, watching his approach. They go for a ride and near the south-pasture gate come upon Bob's brother and father. Bob is surprised and greatly pleased at the gracious way his father responds to an introduction to June. Back at the Elkhorn, he oversees an intimate scene between Mr. and Mrs. Straughn which emphasizes in his mind the differences in his life and June's. He feels he can never tell her what is in his heart. Next day, while at their meal, the Evans family hear over the radio that their father has been elected president of the State Stock Growers Association. While the children rejoice over it, Carolyn hurries to the kitchen that they may not see the misery in her eyes,
CHAPTER FOUR
