Night Marijane Morris 680

40th ANNIVERSARY Parade of Progress WATCH FOR OUR OUTSTANDING SALES EVENTS!

ZIONS COOPERATIVE MERCANTILE INSTITUTION

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.  Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

THEEPILOGUE Beatrice K. Ekman I have come back to our mountains,
To our valleys and inland sea;
To cedared hills and cattle range,
In quest of tranquility.
Warm wind flows down from the foothills
And pours over fields of grain;
Glistening blades of tasseled corn
Are rippling and rustling again;
Watching the bearded barley blow,
In billowing waves like the sea,
Brings back a spindrift of moments
That are lost forever to me.
Over the hills dry leaves will drift,
Winters will lay white covers down;
Springs will return and lilies bend,
The summers fade and fields burn brown.... 
As west wind combs the mauve hill grass
And brine waves cream the sands with foam,
So, shuttle-swift, let my days pass
Until I reach my love and home.
VOL. 35, NO. 10 OCTOBER 1948

Your Friend—the Magazine Alberta H. Christensen Member, Relief Society General Board

Of the most challenging statements in Latter-day Saint literature is found in the Doctrine and Covenants, section 130:18-19. It is this:
"Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection.
And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come."
If this be true, and we believe it is, we are under the moral obligation to study and to learn, to seek wisdom through the pursuit of truth.
Limitations of time and mental capacity may prevent us from being expert in most fields, but each of us can enlarge her understanding by study and by maintaining mental alertness to the opportunities around us.

All Latter-day Saint women are familiar with the words of the Prophet, spoken at the Relief Society meeting of April 28, 1842, when he said,
"... And this society shall rejoice and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth."
It was thus the intent from the beginning of the organization that intelligence, which is the capacity for understanding, should grow and expand through divine guidance, and that the gaining of knowledge should be fostered, its power felt and wisely used by its members.

Page 652

It is also apparent that the dual objective of the Relief Society was recognized at this early date. Service to others and the development of self have been the two-fold aim kept constantly in mind by those who have guided the organization to its present maturity.
An educational program was organized which has developed through succeeding years. In time, uniform courses of study were planned, their specific purpose being to teach those eternal principles which are the foundation of the gospel; to develop faith through understanding so that all might enjoy the fruits of the spirit: and to assist the members in meeting the daily problems of life.

It was with a definite objective and with definite needs in mind that Thecame into being. Its editors have been and are conscious of the needs and problems which face the Latter-day Saint family and are endeavoring to help in their solution through this medium.
They are conscious of the busy life which the average Latter-day Saint mother lives and have selected types of material which will not only meet personal needs but will conform in reading time to a busy schedule. This wise selection of material is important, for the complexity of modern living demands that we be selective as never before.

The woman of today furnishes her home
by choosing from many types of furniture and multiple objects of art.
She chooses her wardrobe from numerous fabrics and designs,
and her hobbies from a wide variety of interesting activities.
Discrimination is especially important in filling her leisure time, for in spite of the many labor-saving devices, her interests have widened and there is increased activity from which to choose.

Someone has wisely said that it is not what one needs to do but what one chooses to do that distinguishes character. 
The woman of today must be especially selective in her reading
for the amount of printed material placed monthly before the public is tremendous.
She must select from this morass that which she feels will best fill her needs, mentally, aesthetically, and spiritually.
With time as a limiting factor, it is obvious that she must choose wisely.

Does Thequalify to a place on the selective reading list of the Latter-day Saint woman? I think that it does because it meets so many of her needs. Helpful suggestions on almost all phases of homemaking are given.
Pre-tested recipes and nutritional budget-wise menus lead the busy housewife to new ways of preparing familiar foods.
Suggestions on making and remodeling of clothing should be especially appreciated at present because of the sudden change in design and length.

There is poetry and short fiction for an aesthetic lift—a little star dust to sprinkle on the ironing board and the dishpan.
Letters from near and distant readers attest the fact that the quality of both poem and story is being improved and appreciated. 
The Magazine also supplies a market (though limited) for the creative efforts of Latter-day Saint women.
Although not many contributions can be used monthly, encouragement is offered writers through the Eliza R. Snow Poem and the Relief Society Short Story contests and through the gracious consideration of material submitted at any time.

The outlines for the courses of study are not only indispensable to the class leaders,
but can be equally helpful and stimulating to all who read them carefully.
Much thought and skill have gone into their preparation.
Here is a deep well of wisdom for every reader who will make the text her own through individual reflection. 
Here is guidance in the art of living for all who will make application.
And here is found in the counsel of the wise, a kindly light which mellows trials and can heal a sorrow.

Editorials and special articles offer spiritual enrichment to all who read them thoughtfully,
and one must not overlook the attractive covers which the Magazine is "wearing."
They have received much commendation. 
"Notes from the Field" with accompanying photographs impress us with the unity of purpose and strength of a great organization.
But perhaps the Magazine's greatest service lies in the fact that it radiates a definite spiritual influence;
a service-loving, beauty-seeking influence which can revitalize any home which greets it and treats it as a friend.