The Magic of Song Lucy May Green. Mrs. Parley Nelson. Moderato 1. When the heart is sad and lonely, And the day seems 2. When life seems to have no bright side, And you fret and [Musical notation] Faster. [Musical notation] lilting song, Of a lilting song? Eyes begin to sparkle, clouds sail by, As the clouds sail by. Sing a joyful stanza, Lips to smile ere long, For they can't resist the magic Of a Sing it clear and strong, For the heart forgets its burden In a lilting song, Of a lilting song, a lilting song. lilting song, In a lilting song, a lilting song. Little All-Aloney. Little All-Aloney's feet Pitter patter in the hall And his mother runs to meet And to kiss her toddling sweet Ere perchance he fall. He is, oh, so weak and small! Yet what danger shall he fear When his mother hovereth near And he hears her cheering call All Aloney. Little All-Aloney's face It is all aglow with glee As around that romping place At a terrifying pace Lungeth plungeth he! And that hero seems to be All unconscious of our cheers Only one dear voice he hears Calling reassuringly All Aloney. Though his legs bend with their load Though his feet they seem so small That you cannot help forebode Some disastrous episode In that noisy hall Neither threatening bumps nor fall Little All-Aloney fears But with sweet bravado steers Whither comes that cheery call All Aloney. Ah, that in the years to come When he shares of summer store When his feet are chill and numb When his cross is burdensome And his heart is sore! Would that he could hear once more The gentle voice he used to hear Divine with mother-love and cheer Calling from yonder spirit shore All Aloney. Piano Seeds Are a surety if they come from Bailey's Increase your acreage this year with ALFALFA TIMOTHY CLOVER GRAIN Send for samples and prices BAILEY & SONS CO. RELIABLE SEEDSMEN Salt Lake City THE UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK Established 1860 Incorporated 1908 "The Utah State National Bank features quick, and efficient Service. One feature is the Unit System which greatly simplifies transactions. Officers: Joseph F. Smith, President Heber J. Grant, Vice-President Rodney T. Badger, Vice-Prest. Henry T. McEwan, Cashier George H. Butler, Asst. Cashier S. M. TAYLOR & Co. Undertakers and Embalmers Successors to Joseph E. Taylor The Pioneer Undertaker of the West Fifty-three years in one location  251-257 East First South Street SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Efficient Service, Modern Methods Complete Equipment 100 Calling Cards Engraved For $1.50, Postage Paid Everyone should have a nice calling card, and we want you to call on us for same. PEMBROKE COMPANY The Home of Fine Stationery and Engraving 22-24 East Broadway, Salt Lake City, Utah Kindly mention this magazine when ordering. Z. C. M. I. A New Book on Gospel Doctrine "The Way of Beauty" Parlors Facial Massages Hair Dressing Is the title of a new book just issued. Manicuring It is written especially for young people by Bishop Edwin F. Parry. Hair and Scalp Treatments It is different to any other work on Nell C. Brown the gospel in that it not only explains the doctrines of salvation, Hair and Scalp Specialist but gives the reasons why the charge ordinances of the gospel are to be observed, and offers suggestions as Consultation Free to how they may be obeyed. It is just the right book for young Latter-day Saints. It will give them a very comprehensive understanding of the gospel, as it is written in a simple, plain, yet dignified style. Those who have read it speak highly of it as a book for the young. Your children should When WE make your Portraits, have it. Send for a copy and pre YOU get the correct style, sent it to them. It is neatly bound excellence and satisfaction in cloth with gold title, and beautifully printed in large, clear type. A very appropriate present for a The Thomas young man or a young woman. Studio Price, Postpaid, 75 Cents Send orders to E. F. Parry, Jr., Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St. 217 Templeton Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. TWO BOOKS Family Record of Temple Work for the Dead. A simplified form, with complete instructions for properly recording this work. L. D. S. Family and Individual Record Arranged specially for recording in a most desirable and concise form, important events in the lives of the members of the Church. These books are sold at $1.25 each. Deseret News Book Store 6 MAIN STREET GRAFONOLA FACTORY PRICE-EASIEST TERMS Send No Money I Pay Freight Wherever you live in the Western States I'll send you this world famous Columbia Grafonola with the true "Tone of Life" that simply can't be imitated, and your choice of records from a list of thousands. Place them in your home and use them exactly as though they were your own, for 5 days. Enjoy them as much as you like  invite the neighbors hold dances and happy parties. Then if you aren't entirely sure you want to keep the outfit, return it at our expense and the trial won't cost you a copper cent. Easiest terms if you do keep it. Send coupon for free books COL. JOSEPH J. DAYNES, Jr., President, Daynes-Beebe Music Co., Salt Lake City, Utah. Dear Sir: You may send me FREE and Postpaid, beautifully illustrated Catalogs, showing ALL styles of GRAFONOLAS (in colors) and giving LOWEST FACTORY PRICES and Terms. Also Big FREE 424 page Record Book and full details of your FREE TRIAL OFFER. This does not obligate me in the least. Name  Address ADMINISTRATION BUILDING TEMPLE BLOCK SALT LAKE CITY RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE APRIL, 1918. Three Things I Have Seen Under the Sun, Nay Four. Stake Presidents Who Know Their Duty. A Left-Handed Violinist With Both Faith and Courage. A Father Who Had His Innings. And a Great Woman Whose Will and Indomitable Faith Kept Her on Earth to Celebrate Her Ninetieth Birthday. L. D. S. GARMENTS LOOK FOR THIS LABEL IN THE NECK OF GARMENTS The Sign of The Sign of Comfort Quality If your leading dealer does not have the garments you desire, select your wants from this list and send order direct to us. We will prepay all postage to any part of the United States. Samples submitted upon request. Style Style 75 Cotton, medium wt., bleached $2.25 1 Unlabeled  Special gauze wt. $1.25 90 Cotton, heavy wt., unbleached 2.50 15 Cotton, spring needle gauze, 100 Cotton, heavy wt., bleached.. 2.75 bleached 1.50 107 Merino wool, medium wt 3.00 10 Cotton, light wt., unbleached 1.75 3 Cotton, gauze wt., bleached.. 1.85 109 Merino wool, heavy weight.. 3.50 25 Cotton, light wt., bleached 2.00 120 Imported wool, medium wt... 4.50 50 Lisle, gauze weight, bleached 3.00 305 Wool and silk, medium 4.50 65 Mercerized, light wt., bleached 3.50 The only approved Garments made with wide flaps at back, button holes for better fastening down front, and set in shoulder pieces to prevent sleeves stretching. SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 70 MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY Salt Lake Artificial Limb Co. (INCORPORATED) Successors to Artificial Limb and Brace Co. J. F. CORDELL, President Largest Manufacturer of Artificial Limbs in the West Fit guaranteed or no sale Patent "Cordell" legs, which have the motion of the natural limb in walking Remodeled and improved We manufacture every style Catalog free Phone Wasatch 8128, 134 W. South Temple, Salt Lake City, Ut. UTAH'S "AMATRICE" BEAUTIFUL PRECIOUS STONE Genuine "Amatrice" differs from beautiful colors, no two stones being alike. malachite, verascite, azurite, turn more beautiful example of turquoise and other copper-stained ture's handiwork were ever offered stones as the genuine diamond offer to lovers of refined jewelry. differs from imitations. Amatrice never fades, takes a fine May we send you gratis a pamphlet polish, and has a wider range of describing more fully this Utah gem? McConalay 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City Solid Gold Rings set with genuine Amatrice $6.00 to $12.50 The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. CONTENTS APRIL, 1918. Group of Relief Society Presidents Frontispiece Charity (A Poem) Grace Ingles Frost 185 Our Relief Society Stake Presidents Susa Young Gates 187 A Quitter Almost Edna Coray 190 Trust Yet a Little While (A Poem) Maud Baggarley 194 Music Brigham Cecil Gates 195 Father Has an Inning Diana Parrish 198 A Utah War Romance 204 Home Entertainment Morag 208 Unusual Mothers 211 War Economy in Clothes 216 Patriotic Department Clarissa S. Williams 218 Current Topics James H. Anderson 221 President Emmeline B. Wells Lighting Candles on her Birthday Cake 224 Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 225 Home Science Department Janette A. Hyde 228 Editorial: Democracy Must be Made Safe for the World 231 Guide Lessons 233 The Gospel Standard (Music) B. Cecil Gates 243