given and ? the Lord did pass by them without harm, as He smote all the first-born of the Egyptians." Thereupon Pharaoh let them go on their journey, out of bondage but into the wilderness. The celebration of the Passover was the law to Israel until the coming of Jesus Christ, the Messiah, the Atoning Sacrifice for the Fall of Adam. As Jesus said to the Nephites: "Behold, I am He that gave the law, and I am He who covenanted with my people Israel; therefore, the law in me is fulfilled, for I have come to fulfill the law; therefore it hath an end." Later Observances of the Passover But Israel did not, in the beginning, actually celebrate the Passover every year. Indeed, at the very time God commanded the original observance, and declared they should "observe this thing for an ordinance to thee and to thy sons forever," He seemed to contemplate a postponement of the yearly celebration of the Feast, for He commanded "And it shall come to pass, when ye be come to the land which the Lord will give you, according as he hath promised, that ye shall keep this service." Nevertheless, it was kept the second year after the Exodus," and again as Israel] encamped in Gilgal." During Solomon's reign there was a return 62/ Ex. 12. 63/Ex. 12:29. 64/3 Nephi 15:5. 65/ Ex. 12:24-25; 13:5. 66/ Numb. 9:15. 67/ Josh. 5:10.  MY FATHER'S BUSINESS to the keeping of the great feasts including the Passover " and again in Hezekiah's time." King Josiah, in his time, carried on perhaps the greatest celebration of the Passover in Israelitish history." But by the time of Christ the Passover seems to have been regularly kept each year at the Temple in Jerusalem" by all who could gather for that purpose. As already stated, the Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread are distinct, the Passover coming on the 14th of Nisan and the Feast of Unleavened Bread commencing on the 15th of Nisan, and continuing for seven days; but in both the Old and the New Testaments the two are frequently spoken of together as the Feast of Unleavened Bread." Preparations for the Passover However, at the time of the visit of the youth Jesus, the preparations for the Passover Feast had been begun some time before the 14th of Nisan. A month before the Feast, the roads to Jerusalem had been repaired; the testing draught for women suspected of adultery had been administered, the one suspected presenting herself at the Nicanor Gate for this purpose;" the ears of those desiring to continue in servitude were bored;" the sepulchres along the roads had been, for a month, whitened so that no one might step on them and be defiled;" the flocks and herds had been tithed two weeks before the Feast; and "many went out of the country up to Jerusalem be- 5 fore the passover, to purify themselves." We are not able to tell how long it was, before the actual beginning of the Feast, that Joseph and Mary and Jesus reached Jerusalem, or it may have been Bethany or possibly Bethlehem. It would not be unreasonable to suppose that, because of their royal lineage (descendants of King David), they had friends and relatives in all of these places, and if so, they might have anticipated the Pesach by a few days of visiting, as they quite clearly did not remain after the Feast, and, indeed, it appears clear (as we shall see) that they left Jerusalem before the Feast of Unleavened Bread was finally completed. But whenever they arrived and wherever they lodged, the preparations for the celebration of the Passover began on Nisan 13th. It will be remembered that the day was always computed from evening to evening, so that Nisan 14th began at sunset of the 13th." Destroying the Leaven The first ceremony" was for the head of the house to offer a prayer and then to take a candle and, in absolute silence, search out all the leaven in the house and put it where no portion could be carried away. If the leaven were not searched out and removed in the evening, it might be done early in the following forenoon. No leaven might be eaten after 10 in the morning, though a laxer 68/ II Chron. 8:13. 69/id. 30:15 (See Calmet's Dictionary, sub voce "Passover" for another explanation. 70 II Kings 23:21 ff. 71/ Luke 2:41. 72/ The Temple, p. 177; Kitto, Cyclopedia Biblical