Social Science What ?America" Means Lesson 13?What "America" Means to Me Tuesday, April 25, 1944 IT is a big country, America. Riding on a fast train, it takes days and nights to cross it from New England to California. Sitting by the car window, you pass many towns and large cities, and a vast country of farms and spaces of woodland. You cross rivers and mountains and see the stretches of desert and deep canyons. Large streams of water west of the Missouri and Colorado rivers reclaim millions of acres of land, where wheat fields stretch out in endless vision. 'The largest dams and reservoirs in the world furnish power for light and water for arid vales. You see the hardwood forests of New England and the orange groves of California; and the cotton fields of the South and the rich corn and wheat fields from the Atlantic to the Pacific give you a feeling of security. You are impressed with the accuracy of what you learned while a student in the grades?that corn, wheat, and cotton are the staple agricultural products of America. Pines in the North, palms in the South, and the cacti in the West; everlasting snows far-off in the ravines of mountains and upon the mountain peaks! Leaving the snowy peaks, you may within a few hours be picking roses in a land of eternal sunshine. The cattle and sheep on the large ranges, the extensive farms of grain, tell why America is well provided with food, and the farmer the most independent citizen in the world. There are places where no man has left his mark "where forest gorges are deep and boulder-strewn, and you wander on foot alone for days listening to the call of birds by day and the cry of the owl and coyote by night." 'There are farms so large in the southwest that up to the time of the automobile, "it took a day to drive from the front gate to the house." One writer has said that the oldest American flag is green. 'Ten thousand years ago it was waving over North America, South, and Central America. And it has been waving ever since. Its name is Indian corn. If you want a flag that symbolizes America, here it is. Botanists tell us that it is the oldest cereal and possibly the oldest cultivated plant. While the Egyptians were cultivating wheat, the Indians were cultivating corn. It grew from a kind of grass and evolved into the finished product of today. Corn was used by the Incas, Aztecs, and Mayas of ancient America. It is said that the Indians have made some fifty-five different foods from it. Along the river valleys our history has been made. Mighty streams pass through the rich agricultural lands, and the extensive Mississippi Valley is a tapestry of the richest wheat and hayfields in the world. There are seas of wheat and oases of corn, mil- let, cane, and fruit and vegetable tracts; wooded hills, salt mines, and oil derricks; and public highways and railroads running in all directions and crossing and crisscrossing. 'The sumac, russet oak, and the golden cottonwood, the wild sunflowers and, finally, the sagebrush greet you on every hand. "The country is a world of pastels, where skies are not just blue, but azure, where clouds of white and gray are tinted masses, and where thunder and lightning show the majestic battles of the elements." The men and women who take vacation trips learn the beauty of the wonderlands of Western America. For real restfulness, one must get near to nature, "out under the unsullied skies, among the mountains with their painted crags, towering pines, and leaping streams." It is in such places as the Yellowstone, the Yosemite, and the Grand Canyon of the Colorado that the American has revealed to him the titanic grandeur and ethereal beauty of color and form, the mystic influence of sky and earth which overcome him and cause him to say with bated breath: "No human being can rise to a sense of their grandeur." Traveling through the country, particularly in the West, you will now and then see groups of Indians, natives of America. In his book entitled Our Indians, Dr. A. Hyatt Verrill says: "Very few people realize that the Indian is one of the greatest of all mysteries. A mystery which even the scientists and authorities on Indians have never been able to solve. No one knows who the Indians really are, whence they came, whether they originated in America or came to this country from some other land. We do not even know how long they have lived in America." Latter-day Saints, however, do know the origin of the Indians of America, for it has been revealed in the Book of Mormon, our Sacred American Scriptures. The Indians are interesting both as individuals and in groups, for they have developed arts, crafts, customs, languages, and many other habits and characters unlike those of any other living people. They have given us maize, potatoes, pumpkins, squash, beans, tobacco, peanuts, and many fruits and vegetables, all of which were totally unknown before the discovery of America. A noble people these Indians, who when they pray to the "Great Spirit" lift their eyes and arms to heaven with reverential feeling. From the days of Father Abraham, the people of Western Asia and later of Europe have looked toward the west. The white race has ever wished for the Promised Land beyond the sunset, and one should not overlook the effect produced on the mind of man when America was discovered. This event and the opportunity for settlement which it afforded have been the forces out of which have developed many of our modern ideas; they have influenced the ideals of the modern man's life. Since the first days of American settlement, men have worked for a democracy, which is unlike any other type of government in the history of the world. Here was established religious and political freedom; here the common man owned land, built homes, and reared his children in an atmosphere of freedom, with the right to worship God as he wished.  LESSON DEPARTMENT Because of the vast areas of land which lay open to settlers, America became a land of opportunity. As the forests gave way under the ax of - the sturdy pioneer, the land was plowed and planted. In time, new ways were demanded, and the age of invention came. The nineteenth century brought about the most sweeping economic changes in the history of humanity. The first steamboat plowed its way up the Hudson River in 1807, and soon steamboats were crossing the Atlantic. A new era in ocean travel was inaugurated. The friction match took the place of the flint in 1827, and Cyrus Hall McCormick gave us the modern mowing machine and reaper, which changed the old ways of farming. Elias Howe gave us the sewing machine in 1846, which changed the life of women in the world. Samuel Finley Breese Morse surprised the world with the electric telegram; and in 1858, the first cable was laid across the Atlantic, which ~ united the Old World with the New. The steam railroad made it possible for the American farmer and cattle and sheep men to send their products to the world; and in 1869, the railroad had reached the Pacific. All parts of America were united as never before as a result of the new system of transportation. Thomas Alva Edison perfected a cheap and serviceable electric light, and later the phonograph. Alexander Graham Bell invented the telephone. Then came radio, and the human voice could be carried to the ends of the earth. The art of printing has been perfected, and a reporter on a large paper can now go into his office in New York and set up an article 59 which can be printed and sold on the streets of Paris or London within a matter of minutes. In its social life, America is the most cosmopolitan country in the world. Her gates have been open to all peoples since the coming of the first settlers in 1607. While there are laws at the present time regulating the foreigners who come to our shores, nevertheless, we still have an influx of aliens every year. All the large cities of America, particularly New York and Boston, have a large percentage of foreigners. It is said that there are more Jews in New York City than there were in Palestine at any one time. All foreigners who land on our shores become Ametican citizens with the exception of a small percentage. Naturally, foreigners come here with high hopes, and some of the greatest Americans have been born in foreign lands. A large percentage of workmen in the coal mines, in the woolen factories, and cotton mills are alien by birth. The foreign-born manufacture most of our clothing, shoes, and a large part of our furniture. It is rightly said that the "aliens' brawn is woven into the warp of wool, the fabric of our national being." 'Their children attend the public schools and churches, and they will be the citizens of tomorrow. 'This is why America is sometimes called "the melting pot." "The action of the crucible," says Israel Zangwell, "is not exclusively physical, but it is spiritual. The nations have come to accept the principles as found in our Bill of Rights of the Constitution, and religious freedom is a very sacred tenet to them." All Americans have been taught the meaning of the five institutions of civilization. These are: the home, agriculture, the church, the state, and the free public school. Nowhere in the world have these institutions been developed as in America. They are the foundation stones of our civilization. Most of the heads of families own their homes, and all pay taxes for the support of schools and public utilities. All are free to attend their own churches. There are cities and farms in all the states, and farming and manufacturing are the staple activities of our economic life. America is a working nation. It has taken brawn and sinew to develop the country and its resources. Agriculture and manufacturing, stock raising and mining have produced an enormous wealth, which has been put to good use. With the wealth, railroads, steamboat lines, universities and colleges, art galleries and public centers have been built throughout the entire country. Science has been aided in its search for those things that bring about sanitary conditions and better ways of living. The poor have found refuge in homes that have been built for the needy and afflicted. The hospitals of the land, built by the accumulated wealth of philanthropists, are among the finest in the world. With the accumulation of the riches of the earth, the American people are a charitable people, and wrong and war stir them to the depths. The Americans have been called a practical people. They are, if in being called practical it is meant that they work with the idea that the results of their labors must be put to some useful end. John Ruskin, the noted art critic and lecturer of England, once told a group of workmen that honest and faithful work means the best kind of praying. He added: "If you do not wish for the Kingdom of God, do not pray for it. But if you do, you must do more than pray for it; you must work for it. Observe, it is a kingdom that is to come to us; we are not to go toit. Also, it is not to be a kingdom of the dead, but of the living. Before it will come, the spirit of that kingdom must be in our hearts, and though it brings all substance of good with it, it does not consist in that: "The kingdom of God is not meat and drink, but righteousness, peace, and joy!' Then too, you will have to enter it as little children." "It is this," says Ruskin again, "that will bring the kingdom of God ?humility, faith, charity, and cheerfulness, with the idea of useful work." The fundamental ideals of all America have been these principles, and they have manifested themselves in a natural honesty, common to the people. The United States is a religious nation. There are some two hundred and forty different creeds, all with church buildings, and a hundred million of our population are registered as believers in Jesus Christ. The distinctive characteristics of these peoples include: a determined faith in the democratic organization of society and the representative forms of government; separation of Church and State; a zeal for universal education. Another trait is the responsiveness to idealism greater than that common today among the older nations of Europe. The American temperament is a willingness to  LESSON DEPARTMENT dismiss the old ways of doing things and try the new. This accounts for much of our progress today in doing things with machinery. Of all the characteristics of Americans, the most important is the acceptance of freedom of opportunity for the individual, which provides the nation with a supply of leadership in every line. This is the reason why America today leads the world in many of the educational and industrial ideals and activities. ""America is learning the greatest lesson of all," says Count Herman Keyserling, "they are proving that the spirit is truly the master of nature and of all life." Questions and Topics for Discussion 1. It is interesting to know that geographically, the United States is 61 about the size of the continent of Europe. Taking a bird's eye view of America, what are its principal rivers, principal mountains, its natural vegetation, its largest lakes, etc.? 2. What are some of the natural resources of this country, in minerals, vegetation, etc.? 3. Read and briefly relate something ' about the history of maize or Indian corn. 4. What were some of the inventions of the nineteenth century that changed the economic and social lives of the American people? 5. What has been the influence of the foreign-born upon American culture? 6. What are the five principal institutions of the United States? 7. Why are we naturally interested in the Indians? Have we Indians who are citizens of this country? (Many hundreds of Indians have become citizens, particularly those living in fixed abodes on reservations. They must know how to read and write, and swear allegiance to our Government. ) Stories from the Book of lormon For optional use of Relief Societies in stakes and missions in countries other than the United States, in lieu of social science lessons. Lesson 6?Conversion of Lamanites by Ammon and His Brethren | Tuesday, April 25, 1944 Note: For the full effect of this lesson it is imperative that the teacher and the class have at hand the Book of Mormon. Lesson Objective: To show that the arm of the Lord is extended to all people who will repent and believe on His name. Ee answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit. Marvel not that I said unto thee, Ye must be born again. 'The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit. Nicodemus answered and said unto him, How can these things be? Jesus answered and said unto him, Art thou a master of Israel, and knowest not these things? Verily, verily, 1 say unto thee, We speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen; and ye receive not our witness. If I have told you earthly things, and e believe not, how shall ye believe, if I tell you of heavenly things?" (John 3:5-12) Things of the Spirit cannot be fully understood except by the Spirit, as is here spoken by the Savior. And truly did He add "If I have told ye of earthly things, and ye believed not, how shall ye believe if I tell you of heavenly things?" The heart of today's lesson, which deals with the conversion of a Lamanite king and hundreds of his followers, may well be centered around this pointed saying of the Savior. For the sake of emphasis and enlargement of the text, the writer will give one of his personal experiences on being told earthly things and believing them not: The country which at present sur rounds my home is one of steep rolling hills. When winter comes, driving by automobile over unimproved roads is hazardous. A short pull over a hill in dry weather is misleading?it may instill confidence for driving the same hill when blanketed in snow. I was warned by friends, whose judgment I respected, that in winter it 'vas best to stay with the main highway. Somehow I did not accept completely this statement they gave me, with the result, one snowy night, of almost serious consequences. Fortunately, my Cat stayed on the road, and no one with me was hurt beyond the point of being cold and anxious during the long wait until things were righted. I had failed to heed earthly advice when first offered, and so had to learn the value of friendly counsel the hard way. All of us have known times when it was hard to accept a simple truth from those who have been along a road before, and we have regretted our unwillingness to have more trust and faith in the words of good men. The story of the conversion of King Lamoni, the Lamanite, reads stranger than fiction. A complete understanding of this story is to be found through an appreciation of the ways of God, and for an explanation of it one must turn to the things of the Spirit. There are deep values of satisfaction in this story. It is good to learn concretely the extending mercy of the Lord even to the point of His preparing the way for the be stowing of that mercy. You will remember in an earlier lesson how Laman and Lemuel, the elder sons of Lehi, through their hardened hearts, and strong wills, lead many souls away from the presence of the Lord into darkness. Over the years, this night ito which they and their followers had fallen grew ever more dark until the Lord knew that it would take long-suffering, great kindness, and even sore afflictions on the part of any who would seek to bring His word again to their hearts. It was once during the reign of Mosiah, a righteous Nephite king, some ninety-one years before Christ, that the Lord found four courageous young men upon whom He could place the charge of preaching His gospel again to the Lamanites. These men were the sons of Mosiah, and  LESSON DEPARTMENT they were present at the conversion of Alma when an angel appeared. Aaron, Ammon, Omner, and Himni they were called. So converted were they to the cause of Christ that they chose to forego their rightful claim to the kingship of their father in order to take upon themselves the hazards of preaching the Gospel to a savage race. Endowed with the Spirit from on high, they set forth into the wilderness. In order to reach more souls they decided to separate, each going to a different part of the Lamanites' country. We have but time in this lesson to follow Ammon. As Ammon approached his assigned land known as Ishmael, he was seized by the servants of King Lamoni, bound with cords, and conducted to the presence of the king. The law of the Lamanites gave their king absolute powers. Had Lamoni wished he could have put Ammon to death. But Ammon found favor in Lamoni's eyes. When asked if it was his wish to remain among his people, Ammon said,.""Yea, I desire to dwell among this people for a time; yea, and perhaps until the day I die." Lamoni then offered Ammon one of his daughters to wife, but Ammon courteously declined, saying he would prefer to become the king's servant. And this wish did the king grant. Ammon carried on his duties faithfully, winning friends among his fellow associates, and waiting patiently for some opening to come wherein he could demonstrate the power of the Lord. Such an occasion did present itself one day while he and others of the herdsmen were tending the 63 king's flocks. A band of robbers scattered the cattle and were about to do away with them. Much afraid, the other herdsmen sat down and wept. It was the rule of the king to kill his herdsmen for the loss of cattle, rather than to kill those who did the stealing. Ammon set his friends to rounding up the flocks while he set out to contend singlehanded with the robbers. This was so rash a deed in the eyes of the thieves that they thought it would be easy to overcome him. But Ammon put to naught all their efforts, killing several and stopping others who struck at him with clubs by cutting off their arms with his sword. In triumph, the herdsmen tre turned with these grim trophies to King Lamoni to proclaim the great strength of Ammon. The king, awed by the strength and power of this man, believed him to be the Great Spirit of whom his forefathers had spoken. Though trembling with fear, Lamoni still commanded Ammon to come before him; but when this man of God appeared, the - king was speechless. Ammon then added to the mystery of his power by reading the very thoughts of the king, who finally admitted belief in the sacred things of life. Ammon then expounded to him the principles of life and salvation. 'Touched to the heart, the king prayed to the Lord for forgiveness for himself and his people, and then overcome by the intensity of his emotions he sank to the earth as if dead. For two days and nights he remained thus until those about him, thinking him dead, desired to bury him. Ammon knew he was in the Spirit with the Lord and instructed the queen of King Lamoni not to place him in the grave, saying that on the morrow he would rise. This faithful woman obeyed, and it came to pass as Ammon had predicted. Lamoni arose filled with great joy and proclaimed to his people the glad tidings of salvation to the end that many did believe, and as many as did believe were baptized; and they became a righteous people. And they did establish a church among them (Alma 19:35). There are other interesting details of this conversion which may be found by reading chapters 18 and 19 of Alma. Questions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggested reading given below have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the passage given to discover plain and precious truths of the Gospel brought to light in the Book of Mormon. If time permits, have each member of the class add a passage of her own selection from within the Book of Mormon (Alma, chapters 17 to 22)?a passage that has brought new meaning to a Gospel truth., 1. Why does it take superior strength to become a true servant of the Lord? Read Alma 17:11. 2. The Lord has said that to serve Him in carrying His message of salvation one must be "as wise as a serpent and as harmless as a dove." How does Ammon fulfill this requirement? Read Alma 18:10. 3. Read the conversation between Ammon and Lamoni. Note the brevity of Lamoni's replies and also his forthtight acceptance of the truth once he sees it. Alma 18:12-43. - The next question may be used if needed for class activity, or it may be assigned for home study. 4. Read chapter nineteen of Alma, and point out the little touches that indicate the sweet effects that come to one born again by the Spirit. Tomorrow's Cup (Concluded from page 37) "It's the cup you fill today," Paul: Morgan answered, smiling into Janet's eyes. "It's what?" Jerry was plainly puzzled. "Skip it, Goof!" Paulette called bluntly from her room across from Jerry's. "Mom and Dad are dating. Where's your finesse?" "Think you're smart!" from Jerry. "So what!" from Paulette, and the house was still. "About tomorrow, Paul." Janet brought the conversation back. "It's twenty-three years ago tomorrow since we came to El Toro?together." She looked into the fire, saw the years ahead in swift review, then she laughed dubiously. "Twins are a responsibility, Paul. I feel perfectly antiquated beside my amazing daughter. Does Jerry dwarf you?" "I'll say he does. I have to stand on tiptoe all the time to keep abreast of him. We must be getting old!" "Not until they're as old as we are, Paul!" Janet protested. "Twenty-three years," Paul mused. "We sat alone by the fire then, too. Remember, Jan?" "And the embers glowed long after the flame was gone...." The End  Thousands of successful office workers and executives in the West? and throughout the nation?have proved for themselves that "L. D. S. Training pays." IT WILL PAY YOU, TOO! Write now for information... Enroll at any time.