Message ON the threshold of a New Year, Relief Society women, with the rest of mankind, face a troubled world?a world of turmoil, sorrow, and anxiety. War with all its attendant evils, horrors, and sacrifices is still raging; the innocent as well as the guilty are participating in it. Sorrow and death have entered many homes, and the end is not yet. Not only are we beset with the many serious and overwhelming problems facing us today, but we are apprehensive of what the future may bring. After the war is over the problems that inevitably follow in its wake, such as debt, taxes, depression, and unemployment with its attendant lowered standard of living, will have to be met. These trying conditions which are bound to come will probably require all the mental, physical, and emotional reserve power we possess. The sad and tragic conditions which surround us today and which will confront us tomorrow, are no doubt, due in the main, to the fact that the peoples of the world have failed to live up to the teachings, example, and ideals of the Prince of Peace; in other words, they have failed to keep the commandments of the Lord. A great help in trying to make adjustments at a time of crisis is to face the problem squarely, whatever it is, and to do this with calmness and as much self-control as possible, rather than to try to evade or escape from it by assuming unsound attitudes. Once recognized and considered from all angles, the most trying situation becomes easier to bear. Calmness, self-control, and poise?gifts to some?are a great asset; and these qualities can be cultivated and acquired where there is enough determination. In times of strain and stress it is important that we cling tenaciously to our ideals and standards, never forgetting those principles and old-fashioned virtues which do not. Change even in a changing world. We shall not falter if we hold fast to those values in the spiritual realm which always help to fortify human beings in times of distress; and if we put our trust in our Heavenly Father; and have faith in His word. Faith in God can bring hope to the most troubled soul. People now everywhere are praying for peace?for permanent peace; but there can be no lasting peace until we live for it and until it is built on the foundation laid down by the Master Himself. Let us, as Relief Society women, strive to keep the commandments of the Lord, and to show, by our lives, that we are doing this. Let us never cease to pray that we may be a help in establishing the kingdom of God here on earth. We send affectionate greetings to the members of the beloved organization. Our prayer is that God will bless us every one according to her needs. The General Board of Relief Society. ENTRANCE TO ANTONIA HEROD'S TEMPLE, DESTROYED A. D. 70 A. Royal Tyropoeon Bridge BB Terrace or Chel ? some authorities say outside of this was a low enclosure called the Soreg CC South Side Gates, the second on the right hand being the ancient Water Gate DD North Side Gates EE Money Chests FF Courts and Chambers G Nicanor Gate H Fifteen Steps of the Levites I Beth - Moked J Steps of the Priests K Rings for tying sacrificial animals 1- L Shushan Gate (traditional) with arched roadway to Mount of Olives M To Bezetha N Marble Tables for cutting up sacrificial animals O Ophel Gate A Royal Tyropoeon Bridge BB Terrace or Chel?some authorities say outside of this was a low enclosure called the Sore CC. South Side Gates, the second on the right hand being the ancient Water Gate DD North Side Gates EE Money Chests FF Courts and Chambers G Nicanor Gate H Fifteen Steps of the Levites ? I Beth - Moked  J Steps of the Priests K Rings for tying sacrificial animals --L_ Shushan Gate (traditional) with arched roadway to Mount of Olives M To Bezetha N Marble Tables for cutting up sacrificial animals O Ophel Gate COURT OF THE GENTILES Pee VOL. 31, NO. 1 JANUARY 1944 MAGAZINE v "Wist Ye Not That | Must Be About My Father's Business?"' President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. II?THE TEMPLE SACRIFICES ON THE MORNING OF THE PASSOVER* HE fourteenth day of Nisan "Permanent" Passover. It was the (anciently called Abib) was the Feast of the Passover. On the 15th of Nisan began the Feast of Unleavened Bread, which lasted for seven days or till the 21st of the month. These Feasts always came at the full of the moon. Croscup has fixed the date of the Feast to which the youth Jesus came, as March 29." Andrews fixes it on April 6." Israel soon drew a difference be latter which was celebrated as Jesus went up to the Temple when twelve years old." As every one knows, the Feast was instituted at the time Israel left Egypt. It was an incident of the final plague poured out by the Lord upon Egypt?the death of the firstborn. It was God's way of distinguishing faithful Israel from idolatrous Egypt. The plague brought "a great cry in Egypt." Pharaoh was humbled. * NOTE: The matters treated in the following installments of this article are so complicated, and in many cases so relatively obscure; the scholars themselves in their discussion are often so vague and indeterminate; even the commandments of the Lord as contained in the Books of Moses are themselves not always identical because of the changing conditions under which Israel was to offer sacrifice?that one cannot be at all certain, in writing about the subject, that he shall accurately represent the real ceremony or principle. This article is submitted in this view, in all of its installments. It is not unlikely that different views might be found on many of the matters discussed, but no statement has been made herein for which there is not support by some responsible authority ?J. R. C. 58 Croscup, Historical Charts, p. 11. 59/ Andrews, The Life of our Lord, p. 108. 60/ Ex. 12. 61 Edersheim, The Temple, p. 181. Page 3 After the plague, he and his people were "urgent" that Israel should depart, with their flocks and herds. Pharaoh besought Moses: "Bless me also." The Establishment of the Passover The event happened this wise: When the Lord told of the plague to come, He commanded each family in Israel to kill a lamb which should "be without blemish, a male of the first year: ye shall take it out from the sheep, or from the goats." It was to be killed in the evening and each household was to "take of the blood, and strike it on the two side posts and on the upper door post of the houses, wherein they shall eat it." The whole lamb?the head, the legs, "with the purtenance thereof''?was to be roasted, it was not to be raw, "nor sodden at all with water." All of it was to be eaten before morning with bitter herbs and unleavened bread. If any remained in the morning it was to be burned; "And thus shall ye eat it; with your loins girded, your shoes on your feet, and your staff in your hand; and ye shall eat it in haste: it is the Lord's Passover." The Lord said He would pass by every house on the doorposts of which blood had been sprinkled, but that He would destroy the first-born of every other house. "And this day shall be unto you for a memorial; and ye shall keep it a feast to the Lord throughout your generations: ye shall keep it a feast by an ordinance forever?And it shall come to pass, when your children shall say unto you, What mean ye by this service? That ye shall say, It is the sacrifice of the Lord's passover, who passed over the houses of the children of Israel in Egypt, when he smote the Egyptians, and delivered our houses." Israel observed this commandment on the day for which it was