spring flowers. Muriel looked at the table with satisfaction. "Dinner party?" Connie asked. "Yes, prospective customers. Loads of money." Muriel felt a stab of uneasiness—almost like guilt. It had been lingering inside her all day as she had gone about preparing for the dinner party. "Don't look so worried, Mother MILDRED R. STUTZ dear," Connie said flippantly, "I promise not to drink out of my saucer. In fact, if you don't mind, I think I'll take in a movie. I don't relish spending an evening in a business conference." Muriel smiled fondly at her daughter. She was glad she had made the suggestion. "Of course I don't mind, dear. These people wouldn't be interesting to you anyway." A wave of relief washed over Muriel, followed by the guilt again. "If there isn't anything I can do to help you, I think I'll study for awhile." Page 151 152 "Go ahead, Connie. Mrs. Keller is here to help in the kitchen and do the serving. I don't think there's anything you can do." Connie walked slowly up the stairs. Watching her go, Muriel's heart ached for her. It wasn't right that a young girl should be so alone. Why couldn't she adjust to the new town? True, it held little resemblance to the town she had grown up in, but Connie was sixteen, and, surely, she was old enough to realize that nothing stayed the same forever. Lakeside had been such a peaceful, quiet, little place. Looking back on it now, it seemed almost dull. Everybody knew everybody else. They went to Church on Sunday, did their laundry on Monday, and chatted over the back fence as they hung the clothes to dry. They visited in the grocery store and compared price lists and grocery bills. Scottsville was different. There was so much to be done. The big old house had been completely redecorated. John's office had changed from empty storerooms to an attractive suite. His business was building up fast and they were meeting all the right people. IN her room, Connie stared moodily at the rain sliding down the window pane. There was really no reason why she should study tonight. She was already far ahead of the rest of the class. She made a few doodles on the flyleaf of her notebook, walked to the window, back to the dressing table, and finally back to her books. She might as well study, there was nothing else to do. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 Muriel moved from kitchen to dining room, giving efficient instructions to Mrs. Keller and attending to details that required her skilled touch. It was going to be a lovely party. The guests were, for the most part, strangers to her. They were people who had great influence both socially and financially. They could mean a lot to the business. Muriel had been to enough dinner parties in Scottsville to know how vastly they differed from the parties at Lakeside. They had a sophistication about them that did not come easily for Muriel. She had been born in a religious family and had grown up in a religious town. The moral values taught her from childhood had never been questioned, and she had passed the same teachings on to her daughter. It was John who had first felt the bonds of their provincialism. In his business he came in contact with many people. They were people more worldly and less hampered with moral laws than he was used to dealing with; but they had money and influence, and John's business needed both. Muriel opened the refrigerator and tried to ignore the unfamiliar bottles inside. She shifted them about and was irked that the guilty feeling still persisted. She turned to see Connie coming in the door. She was angry with herself for quickly closing the door, so she busied herself about the kitchen to conceal her annoyance. "How about a handout, Mother, I'm starved?" Connie sliced some bread and buttered it. She pulled some leaves from some lettuce, folded them between the bread, and COMPROMISE viewed the sandwich appraisingly. "Some mayonnaise and a pickle, and I'll have a piece of art," she laughed. Muriel felt a strange prickling on the back of her neck as she saw her daughter cross the room and open the refrigerator door. Connie gave a low whistle and exclaimed, puzzled, "For Pete sake, what's this? A brewery?" Muriel tried to sound nonchalant. "People around here are different than they were at Lakeside. They don't have the same—ideologies." "Yes," said Connie, her brown eyes troubled. "I've noticed a difference among the kids at school. They don't act the way I do." Muriel hurried on, uncomfortable, "The contacts your father makes here tonight are very important. These people can mean a lot to the business. We've got to make them like us—we've got to go halfway." Muriel knew her explanation sounded weak. The thought occurred to her that she was explaining to herself as much as to Connie. She wondered if the explanation was as unsatisfactory. CONNIE ate her snack in silence, and Muriel, unable to feel at ease, excused herself to go dress. It was nearly time for the first picture at the Embassy, so Connie took her raincoat and umbrella from the hall closet and, calling a quick goodbye to her mother, stepped out into the early spring evening. Raindrops splashed in the puddles along the sidewalk, making the reflected street lights dance crazily. The steady drumming of the rain on her umbrella was comforting to Connie—comforting and yet a lonesome sound. She walked slowly, counting the squares in the sidewalk, watching people move about behind lightly curtained windows. A very noisy jalopy clattered down the street. Connie recognized a number of students she had seen about the campus. The movie was dull. Connie sat through one feature and then, because it was still too early to go home, stayed for a cartoon and newsreel. It was still raining as she left the theater and hurried down the sidewalk toward the drugstore. She was about to enter when a girl's voice called, "Hey, Connie, come here." Turning slowly, she saw the old battered jalopy parked at the curb. She hesitated a moment and then approached the car. She didn't know the girl who called to her, but it was nice having someone know her name. "Climb in, Connie, we'll take you home." The driver of the car was a large, dark fellow Connie had seen at school. He had always seemed friendly even though he appeared somewhat older than most of the students. "No, thanks, I think I'll walk—it isn't far." "Aw, come on, Connie," someone said, "there's plenty of room." The car door opened and Connie saw five or six boys and girls inside. Some of them looked familiar, others were strangers, but they were all laughing and joking and urging her to join them. It was warm inside and the rain danced merrily against the tin top, and everyone seemed to be having fun. Connie smiled uncertainly, "All right," she said and stepped inside. There was a faint odor of tobacco 154 smoke and some unfamiliar smell she couldn't identify. In the back seat the boys and girls shifted about to make room for her. She felt herself pulled down onto someone's lap, and arms held her firmly. The car jerked to a start. THEY careened down the wet streets and stopped in front of Connie's home. The lights were burning brightly and strange cars were parked in the driveway. "You don't have to go in yet do you, Connie?" they kept asking, "it's only a little after ten-thirty." "I'm supposed to be in before eleven," she said. "Won't your old man let you stay out later than that?" Connie tried to be as gay as they were, "Oh, I'd better check in," she said. "Look, Connie, why don't we all drive out to Traveler's Inn and have a snack or something. We'll bring you right back and you'll be in before midnight easy." They were all coaxing. They acted like they really wanted her to go. "Traveler's Inn," she asked, "where's that?" There was a slight pause. "Oh, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 it's a little place just outside the city limits—not very far." Someone giggled and the arm around Connie tightened slightly. "I'll tell you what I'll do," she said, "I'll run in and tell Mother and Dad where I'm going, and if they
say it's all right, I'll be back." She ran lightly up the walk. It was fun having friends again. The uneasiness she had felt when she first entered the car was slipping away, and now the invitation to Traveler's Inn, whatever that was, sounded full of fun and excitement. If only the folks would let her go. Of course, it was late and she hardly knew the crowd she was going with, but—well—maybe they'd let her go. She followed the sound of voices down the hall to the living room. Through the glass-paneled doors she could see her parents and their guests. They were seated comfortably about the room. Connie could tell that her father was making what he called the "right contacts." Her mother was serving a drink of some kind to a big, bloated man who lolled awkwardly against the mantle. The room was clouded with smoke. Connie turned slowly and stood in the shadows of the hall. For a (Continued on page 213) Craig, Tommy, and Lanny. Biology at Snow Junior College. Between household tasks." Mildred R. Stutz, Ephraim, Utah, a comparatively new writer, tells us that she is twenty-eight years old, "and the mother of four little boys: Kent, My husband, Howard C. Stutz, is professor of We are members of the Ephraim South Ward, active in Mutual, Sunday School, and other Church and civic auxiliaries. Because of my family of small children, I am unable to be an active member of Relief Society, but I enjoy the Magazine and the visiting teachers. "I have had one poem published in The Relief Society Magazine. Throughout my school years I won several contests, the most important being the Edward W. Bentley Short Story Contest at Brigham Young University. I enjoy writing, but, like most mothers, find it necessary to sandwich my hobby Relief Society Building News THE names of the following branches in missions have not previously been published in The Relief Society Magazine as having completed their Building Fund quotas: Besancon Branch, French Mission Bruxelles Branch, French Mission Charleroi Branch, French Mission Eua Branch, Tongan Mission Fatai Branch, Tongan Mission Fahefa Branch, Tongan Mission Faleloa Branch, Tongan Mission Feletoa Branch, Tongan Mission Fotua Branch, Tongan Mission Foui Branch, Tongan Mission Liege Branch, French Mission Loto Ha'apai Branch, Tongan Mission Makeke Branch, Tongan Mission Malapo Branch, Tongan Mission Matahau Branch, Tongan Mission Mu'a Branch, Tongan Mission Nakolo Branch, Tongan Mission Naku'alofa Branch, Tongan Mission Neiafu Branch, Tongan Mission Nagaunoho Branch, Tongan Mission Fua'omotu Branch, Tongan Mission Geneva Branch, French Mission Ha'akame Branch, Tongan Mission Ha'alaufuli Branch, Tongan Mission Ha'ateiho Branch, Tongan Mission Neuchatel Branch, French Mission Nukunuku Branch, Tongan Mission Otea Branch, Tongan Mission Pangai Branch, Tongan Mission Ramah Branch, South African Mission Halaloto Branch, Tongan Mission Herstal Branch, French Mission Houma Branch, Tongan Mission Koloa Branch, Tongan Mission Kolonga Branch, Tongan Mission La Chaux de Fonds Branch, French Mission Lausanne Branch, French Mission Liahona Branch, Tongan Mission Seraing Branch, French Mission Strasbourg Branch, French Mission Tokomololo Branch, Tongan Mission Tuanekivale Branch, Tongan Mission Tuanuku Branch, Tongan Mission Uiha Branch, Tongan Mission Vaini Branch, Tongan Mission Verviers Branch, French Mission Page 155 The Song of the Lark Ivy Williams Stone IT was not there! I looked carefully around gallery 32 of the Chicago Art Institute, then consulted the catalog I had purchased on my last visit, two years earlier. It should have been there, it was so listed, "Breton's 'Song of the Lark' in gallery 32, Modern French Artists." But there was no painting of a peasant girl, with sickle, bare feet, and snooded hair. I approached a guard, pacing slowly from room to room. That his occupation was just a job was evident in his attitude. He was bored with his inactivity, irked at the often inane questions of tourists. "I do not find Breton's 'Song of the Lark,'" I said. "Has it been moved to some other gallery?" The guard did not slacken his measured steps, nor unfold his arms, nor even look at me. "It's out on loan tour," he answered over his shoulder, as he walked toward another room. Out on loan tour. Those four words cut into my consciousness like a whip. It couldn't be. I had brought our two children from Utah to Chicago to give them fine cultural contacts. To me this picture was the epitome of artistic achievement. We would go to New York. They would see Bonheur's "Horse Fair"; "The Hand of God," by Rodin; and Cleopatra's Needle. Crowds, elevated trains, subways, Wall Street, Ellis Island—all would provide new vistas for impressionable youth. But I wanted my son and daughter to see "The Song of Page 156 the Lark." Some critics maintain the girl's smile is more inspiring than the famed one of Mona Lisa. "Oh!" I cried out. In my disappointment I was the outspoken westerner. But there was no one to share my disappointment, for I had come alone to locate the best exhibits, while the children watched some tennis matches. "Oh!" I repeated. "Why, I brought two children fifteen hundred miles to see that picture!" I spoke to the disappearing back of the bored guard. He was methodically pacing into the next room. Pictures were just pictures to him. My quandary was not his concern. I stood baffled, staring at the spot where the picture should have been. What should I tell the children? Their interest was spurred and fed by my enthusiasm. Only too well I knew they would find other diversions. My daughter wanted to attend a shoe sale at Marshall Fields; my son hoped to see a sparring match between a jewfish and a shark in the Shedd Aquarium. A gentle voice at my elbow brought me back to reality. "Pardon me, Madam." The low, modulated voice was like the first trickling from thawing spring snows back home. "I heard what you said to the guard. The picture is not loaned. It is in retirement. You see, the Institute owns so many thousands of famous canvases, we Art Institute of Chicago THE SONG OF THE LARK From a Painting by Jules Adolphe Breton Page 157 158 have to rotate them. But fifteen hundred miles is a long distance, and your children must not be disappointed. I shall personally conduct them to the storage gallery. Shall we say, tomorrow, at ten?" I looked into the smiling face of a man so delicately molded, it seemed he had stepped down from one of the decorative pieces of priceless china. His thin, transparent hands, his small figure, his disarming smile, all bespoke the connoisseur. Back in the hotel, I schooled the children all evening, so they would be appreciative of this unusual service. I borrowed a book on French art from the hotel library; we studied a good reproduction of the original we were about to see; learned the highlights of Breton's career. "The shoe sale will be over by the time we can get there," protested my daughter. "I did so want a pair of those open-toed, patent leather, French heels. There isn't a store in our State that carries the style I want. What's an old picture, anyway?" Promptly at ten the next morning we reported to the little man at his desk in gallery 32. His hands seemed more transparent when grasped by my towering son. We went along hallways, where uniformed guards touched their caps, as they unlocked gates for us. The little man explained everything. The Institute buildings were fireproof, burglarproof, even earthquake-proof. Down elevators, along more hallways. Always the guards touched their caps, always locked gates were opened to us. Finally RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 we came to the aisle marked "French: 19th century." At a signal from our guide, a guard unlocked the final gate, and we were ushered into an air-cooled, tomblike room, lined with rows upon rows of portable racks. "Breton," spoke our guide, and a button was pushed. A rack rolled out. Another button, and the large canvas of "The Song of the Lark" stood out alone. It was illumined. I was suddenly happy, for both children were awed. There stood the peasant girl, with her coarse garments, her huge, hardened bare feet; the strength of her sickle hand plainly revealed. The lark was soaring from its nesting place in the brown furrow; with a song on her own lips, the girl watched its ascent. Health was evident in every line of her body, as though born of the green meadow and the brown earth of the field. The sun, just rising over the distant treetops, illumined her face. From her snooded hair to her feet she revealed contentment and peace. The green meadow, the freshly plowed furrows, the azure sky, all climaxed her inexplicable smile. THE children studied the picture and listened to a half-hour discourse on the works of Breton, artist and poet. As they studied the picture, I studied its effect upon them. My faith was vindicated. The delicate voice of our guide recited some of Breton's poetry. Born a French peasant, Breton had lived in the deep poverty of the downtrodden poor. He had experienced the revolution of 1848. He excelled in depicting the despair of the country folk. A painter of rustic life, a THE SONG OF THE LARK man of the poor. The peasants of his day were fortunate to have sabots for Sunday wear. The school children of Chicago had voted this picture the most popular in the entire Institute. As we retraced our course, gates were locked behind us. Up elevators, along steel-barred halls, and finally out into the light of the galleries, we went. My son's demonstration of courtesy, his speech of thanks to our kindly guide, gave me added joy in being his mother. My adolescent daughter had a dreamy, faraway expression in her eyes. She looked at her trimly shod feet and whispered to me: "All she ever had were wooden clogs." Our guide gave me his card, shook hands all around, and quickly left us. We sauntered through gallery after gallery. The children, rather than I, wanted to see more. The guard was doing his paces from room 159 to room. His arms were folded, his face bored. As we stood on the front steps of the Institute, flanked by the guarding lions, I glanced at my watch. "We still have time to get to Marshall Fields," I said to my daughter. "Perhaps you can yet find what you want in shoes. And I feel sure the Shedd Aquarium will be open this afternoon." She glanced at her sensible, durable, walking oxfords. "These are good enough," she smiled. "I guess French heels would be hard to walk in." "What's a couple of sparring fish?" countered my son. "Heigh, who was that little man, anyway? What's his name?" I held the card in my palm, and all three of us looked at the printing. Our guide had been an assistant curator of the Chicago Art Institute. Threads of Destiny Elizabeth Terry Blair We weave the threads of destiny; The warp is all our own; No matter what the filling is, We reap what we have sown. We thread the shuttle day by day, Regardless of the cost; Sometimes we gain a rich reward, Again a soul is lost. Then let us weave the best we can, Whatever we may do, A fabric fit for God and man, A fabric firm and true. The House of Leaves Blanche Sutherland MARK Ballard turned the steering wheel with a lean hand and the car jolted up onto the highway and stopped. Anne Henderson shifted a trifle in her seat and he smiled down into her clear, gray eyes. "Remind me to put in a driveway without that bump," he said, and Anne laughed. Mark eyed her small face, the wistful mouth, and there was hunger in his eyes. Annie, Annie, he thought, will it really come true this time—our marriage—or As if
sensing his thought, Anne held up her lips and he bent his dark head to kiss her. She moved against his shoulder. "Oh, Mark, I can't wait. Our very own house. If only it would be finished and we could move in right after we're married." Mark grinned. "One month? That would take some doing." Both turned as with one accord and looked back. "Can't you almost see the wide window and how it will bring that whole view right into the living room?" Mark gestured toward a line of blue hills against whose background maples and red oaks flamed in autumn colors. "Or," he eyed her in mock anxiety, "are you going to be the kind of wife who hangs drapes all over windows?" Anne shook her head, smiling. "Not that window at any rate." She gave a little sigh and relaxed in the seat beside him. "It's almost real, isn't it?" she asked, pointing to where careful lines of brown and red Page 160 leaves had been raked to form the outlines of a house plan. She laughed suddenly and tossed the hair from her eyes, pulling her green coat around her. "Mother and Dad would think us a little goofy if they'd seen us building a house out of leaves as children do." Mark held himself in check, straightening the slight stoop that had lately come to his shoulders. By long practice he had been able to achieve a satisfactory demeanor when Anne's parents were mentioned. But how could he think of them as anything but enemies to their marriage? "We'll build our house of wood, mortar, and bricks, my sweet, like the wise little pig," he said, "and no big, bad wolf can huff and puff it down, as children say. But seriously, Anne, I'm telling Anderson tomorrow that we'll take this lot. And then I'll get Barnhoff at the plans." He flicked on the switch and stepped on the starter. Anne turned to look back again. "It will be just like the leaf-house, won't it?" she asked anxiously. "You remember how it's to be?" "Every last detail, from the big window and the view to the service porch and the clothes reel," he laughed. He took his hat from the seat back, tilting it confidently over his short, black hair. "Now let's go back." THEY rode in the silence of long friendship, back through the streets of Hanford where they'd both been reared. A haze of blue, born THE HOUSE OF LEAVES of many bonfires, hung over the streets. He breathed deeply of the spicy fragrance, remembering so many autumns. Five years, he thought, and silently cursed himself that they had not married before, regardless. He turned and looked at Anne, seeing as if for the first time the wide, gray eyes almost too large for her small face, the auburn hair curled around her ears but smoothed into a page boy at the back of her neck, the tiny mole on her chin. Anne, sweet, he thought, remembering how he'd wanted her every hour of the five years. Maybe this time, there'd be not one thing to stand in the way. Not her father and mother, not Josie. "Did you ever wonder, Anne, what it would have been like if we'd married when we first planned?" he asked suddenly. Anne shook her head. "Who knows? Anyway, we couldn't have. Mother and Dad wouldn't hear of it. I was only nineteen." "And now you're twenty-four and I'm twenty-seven. We'd have had all these years of being married, Anne." Anne turned a distressed face toward him. "I know, Mark." "Of course, the first two years, I had to get the drugstore on a paying basis again after Dad died," he said. "It would have made hard sledding if we'd been married then, I realize." "Then Dad broke his leg," Anne said, "and it wouldn't heal. And Mother got sick worrying about it. That was the third year." "Yes," Mark agreed slowly, and his mouth went dry remembering how pinched and white Anne had looked before her mother was up 161 and about again. "Then, after that, Anne, Josie got married and your folks thought they couldn't lose both of you at once." "But we did begin to plan then, Mark," she interrupted hurriedly. "We were going to live in the flat over the store. We would have, too, if the folks hadn't decided to take that trip West." "Yes, I know," Mark said. He wanted to add, "And you had to go as chauffeur on account of your father's lame foot. And that was the fourth year." But he didn't say it. It would sound bitter, he decided. It was all past, anyway, unless something new arose. For Anne had promised. He straightened suddenly and stopped for the red light, turning his eyes to follow a sudden gesture from Anne. "Look, Mark. In that car. It's Ellen Carson— er — Barclay, I mean," she corrected. "I can't get used to Ellen and John being married." Mark shrugged. "Neither can Ellen and John, I'll wager. How many years do you suppose it was that they were going steady?" Anne shook her head. "Years and years." "I was just a kid, I know," Mark said thoughtfully. He started the car at the green light. "I remember we used to play jokes on them, tacking 'Just Married' signs on John's old Model T. Once we gave them a charivari. I don't like to remember John's face even to this day." Anne frowned. "Boys can be so mean." "And girls," Mark added. "Ellen was such a pretty girl, and some of the others didn't spare her feelings 162 much." He swerved the car to avoid an oncoming one. "And John — we called him Jack then—was the best pitcher Hanford ever had. That must have been twenty years ago, at the least." "You have a good memory." "No. Jack had all of us kids organized into competing teams. I was seven or eight years old and he taught me that slow curve of his. The one that made him famous." Mark smiled reminiscently. "We had some great teams, I tell you, for just kids." He turned the car into Maple Street. "You know how boys will idolize a young fellow like that. I remember I decided I was going to be just like Jack when I grew up." He broke off. "Funny what life does to people, huh?" "No, not funny," she answered soberly, brushing at bits of leaves on her skirt. She turned quickly toward him. "We will be married this time, Mark. We will be." Mark's smile moved over her face lovingly. "Next month, sweet. And we'll tell your Dad and Mother for sure, as soon as we get you home?" Anne's gray eyes flinched from his for a second, then she put her face against his shoulder. "The very minute," she said, with a show of courage in her voice and face. WHEN Mark pulled his car to a stop under the huge maples that guarded the big old house where the Hendersons lived, Josie's car was the first thing that met their eyes. "Oh," Anne said faintly, "oh!" Mark frowned at her worriedly. "You're not going to let your sister scare you out of telling, are you?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 Anne straightened decisively. "No, I'm not." She climbed out of the car and went up the walk, her green coat making a splash of color against the maples. She smiled back at him reassuringly, but her lips held a tremble in their softness. Before they reached the porch, they could hear Josie's high, light voice, her laughter. "Feature that!" she was saying as Mark and Anne came in. "Two of them, a boy and a girl! Can you imagine?" Josie, a small, determined, blonde woman of about thirty, was sitting on the arm of the old-fashioned settee. She turned laughingly toward them. "I suppose you've heard the news. I was just telling Dad and Mother." Anne motioned Mark to a chair, then went to hang up her coat. She stopped beside her mother's rocking chair to pat her shoulder, smiling down at the spare, helpless-looking woman. She picked up her father's cane and replaced it in reach of his hand, then turned to Josie. "What news?" she asked. Josie's face registered exasperation. "I declare, Anne, sometimes I think you're only half alive. Ellen and John Barclay have adopted two children! Two, mind you. A threeyear-old boy and a two-months-old baby girl. Can you tie that?" "Well, that's fine," Anne replied. "I'm glad. Ellen loves children." Mark spoke up. "Good old Jack. Now he'll have a boy of his own to teach that famous slow curve." Mrs. Henderson shook her head. "Adopting is a terrible responsibility," she said hopelessly. "When they're your own, you have to do the best you can by them. But some THE HOUSE OF LEAVES one else's! I don't see how they dared." She shook her head again and took up a roll of knitting from her lap and inspected it. "Annie, I've dropped a stitch." She held it out. "It's a sweater for the baby. Josie wants me to finish it." Anne gathered it up, pulled back the needle until she could pick up the stitch, then slipped the others back on. "Here you are, Mother," she said. "Where did they get the children from, Josie?" "The Home." Josie rolled her eyes. "They must have gone and applied right away after they were married. It usually takes months and months. And I hear they almost got a refusal at that, they're so old." Dad Henderson spoke up. "Hope they use more sense in raising them than the young folks do nowadays. Running loose like wildcats at all hours, and with no respect for their elders, either." "Ellen was a good girl and a good daughter," Mother Henderson said, knitting away. "She'll do right by them just like she did with her parents. John Barclay was dead set on him and Ellen getting married. He'd even promised they could move in with her father and mother but Ellen knew it wouldn't do. Not with that pair." She shook her head wisely. "Two families in one house, you know. And if there're young ones! Tsk—tsk!" MARK looked at Anne. She was sitting quietly in a chair by the window. The late afternoon sunshine through the small panes of glass highlighted her hair to burnished copper. They couldn't have found a worse time to tell of their 163 wedding, he thought morosely. The atmosphere was the same as ever, sapping Anne's resolution. He sat rigid, watching her wordlessly. She must have felt his eyes upon her for she spoke up suddenly. "Mark and I were looking at a building site this afternoon. We're to be married next month, the twentieth." The effect of her announcement was comparable to the sudden stillness that follows a clap of thunder. No one spoke. Then, out of the bottomless silence, Josie's words came like a whiplash of lightning. "You intend to move out and leave Dad and Mother alone?" she asked. "You, all they have left?" "We would be quite near," Anne said through white lips. "In that new subdivision over by Oak Grove. And until the house is built, we've rented an apartment only a block away—the Davis Flats." Josie's face was scarlet with anger. "You know it's always been understood that you were to stay with Dad and Mother. You know that," she expostulated. "You and I are all that are left here. I have my family. I can't take care of them." Mother Henderson dropped her knitting and began fumbling for a handkerchief. Dad's face was taking on that look of resigned patience that Mark knew was the hardest of all for Anne to bear. "Couldn't expect her to stay with us, Mother," he said. "We babied her too long, I
guess. A town wouldn't have two like Ellen, staying on till she got the old folks buried. No, that'd be unreasonable, I suppose." Anne's eyes, sick, forlorn, and bewildered, flew to Mark's. Mark had (Continued on page 210) A Young Mother Discovers Relief Society Margaret F. Richards President, Stadium Village Branch Relief Society, Emigration Stake (Address delivered at the morning session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 29, 1948.) MY dear sisters, it is indeed a thrilling and an inspiring thing for me to meet with you this morning, to see you sisters from all over America gathered together. I believe that I have never felt more humble, more dependent upon the Lord, and I pray that he may help me to find the words to tell you what is in my heart this morning. Had anyone questioned my feelings about the Relief Society a little over a year ago, I would have told him that I had a great deal of respect for the organization and for the women who comprise its membership. I might have mentioned that my mother and my grandmother and my husband's mother had been active workers in the organization for as long as I could remember, and I would have said that someday when my children were grown I, too, intended to become a member of Relief Society. Then I was asked to help with Relief Society work in our newly organized branch, and now I wish that I could convert every young mother in the Church to membership and participation in this God-inspired work, for I believe that there is no organization in the world, be it civic, social, religious, educational, in which a young mother can find the opportunities and the advantages Page 164 which the Relief Society affords. The cultural and educational and social opportunities afforded by the lessons and activities are of inestimable value to the young mother, for we are taught skills and given ideas helpful in rearing our children, keeping our families properly clothed and fed, and making our homes comfortable and beautiful. We are introduced to the finest in music and literature and are encouraged to cultivate refinement and culture in our homes. We are given opportunities and responsibilities for leadership which contribute immeasurably to our personal growth and development, and we associate with women whose sweetness of spirit and purity of lives and devotion to duty inspire love and friendship which is unequaled in any fraternal organization that I know of. These opportunities within themselves justify membership in the Relief Society and yet there are other values which to me are of even greater worth. One of the presidents of our Church has said that the only reason for the existence of an auxiliary organization is the obtaining and building of a testimony of the gospel and the Messiahship of Jesus. I cannot remember a time in my own life when I have not believed with all my heart that this gospel was A YOUNG MOTHER DISCOVERS RELIEF SOCIETY 165 true and I am so grateful to my parents and my teachers for this testimony. Today I can stand before you, my dear sisters, and say that I know this gospel is true and that this organization is founded on principles the practice of which will lead every woman who earnestly and prayerfully and humbly seeks for such knowledge to a personal testimony of the gospel. In my opinion, such a testimony can do more to promote personal happiness than anything else in the world. I sincerely believe that it is important, not only to the living of one's own life, but to the successful fulfillment of woman's greatest role of wife and mother. I came to the Relief Society, my dear sisters, after three unsettled years of army life. These were not unhappy years because wherever we went we carried with us our faith in God and our desire to keep his commandments. Yet, although we never doubted the gospel, we could not help catching the feeling of unrest and anxiety for the future that was so prevalent among our associates, and although we always believed very deeply that the gospel was true, we were worried about our future. As our knowledge of the gospel has increased and as our testimonies have been so strengthened, we have come to understand the meaning of the "peace of Christ which passeth understanding." We have found that faith and hope leave no room for doubt and fear, and we know that although we cannot insure a world of peace for our children, if we can just teach them to love the Lord and to desire to obey his commandments they will have an inner security which all of the gold could not buy. THERE is another joy which comes to those who work in the Relief Society, a joy which only those who have tasted it can know and that is the sweetness of service. How better could we do this, my dear sisters, than by engaging in this great work which is devoted to feeding and clothing the hungry and needy, bringing help to the sick and comfort to those who mourn? I believe that if we could just fulfill the true objectives of this organization we could find no task which would be more Christlike; I believe we could find no greater recompense for services rendered, for God himself is waiting to reward us with the joys of heaven, not in some far-distant reaches of eternity, but here on earth, if we will but grasp this opportunity to serve him. My Relief Society membership has helped me, also, to one of the most glorious realizations in my life. Nothing has brought me greater joy than the awareness that I am living the fullness of existence by being a mother. To me motherhood is the highest and holiest service that women can render. No calling could be more glorious than that of nurturing in mind and body and spirit these most precious of God's gifts to us, his children. The cognizance that I have some responsibility for the glorification or the spiritual destruction of my husband and children invokes a sacred dedication to God to live to the best of my ability according to his teachings, and a prayer that he will bless me with the strength and love, the wisdom and understanding, that will enable me to fill to the fullest measure this sacred calling which is mine. Hawaii and the Latter-day Saints Rosannah Cannon Irvine Former Member, Relief Society General Board JESUS said, "Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature" (Mark 16:15). Inspired by that sacred injunction, missionaries were sent to carry the "glad tidings" to the natives of the Sandwich Islands. Ten young men, who were working in the gold mines of California at the time, were chosen. They were not miners for personal gain, but for the benefit of their impoverished Church. They were called and set apart by Apostle Charles C. Rich, who was authorized to do so by President Brigham Young. The names of these men are worthy of note: Hiram Clark, president of the group; Thomas Whittle, Henry W. Bigler, James Keeler, John Dixon, Thomas Morris, William Farrer, James Hawkins, Hiram Blackwell, and George Q. Cannon. December 12, 1850, after a four weeks' tortured and terrifying sea voyage, these missionaries arrived in Honolulu, friendless, homeless, sick, half-starved, and totally exhausted. The sight of the beautiful city and the thanks to their Heavenly Father for at last finding themselves on dry land, made them forget, to some degree, their physical suffering and mental distress. Their first act was characteristic of the pioneer spirit of our early Church members. They climbed a nearby mountain and built an altar where they knelt in prayer, giving grateful thanks for their safe deliverance. There is an old adage that, "The Page 166 saddest fortune may be turned to beauty by patience and faith." With these men it must have taken superhuman faith and patience to carry on. In beginning their work, these elders, being unable to understand the natives, their language, or customs, devoted their attention to the white people. They soon discovered, however, that the "haole" (white people) were stubbornly hidebound in their own particular religious sects. Protestant missionaries had begun their work there many years before the Latter-day Saint mission was opened and most of those people and their ministers were bitterly antagonistic to our Church. Making no progress with them, half of our delegation became discouraged and left, some for home and some for what they thought might be more fertile fields of labor. Among this last number was President Clark, who before he left, however, baptized a sixteen-year-old boy, the first Hawaiian to become a member of the Church. Those who remained where they had been called to labor were James Keeler, Henry Bigler, James Hawkins, William Farrer, and George Q. Cannon. George Q. Cannon felt strongly that they should remain among the people to whom they had been sent, and yet his mind was in a turmoil. Being obedient to authority was a vital and necessary principle of the Church, that he believed with his whole heart. And Hiram Clark was HAWAII AND THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS his president, and although he did not insist, he wanted the elders to follow him. In his distress, Elder Cannon sought the Lord in prayer, as was his custom. The earnestness of his supplication brought him the definite assurance that he should remain in Hawaii. The four others agreed with him. They also had made it a matter of fasting and prayer. BECAUSE of his determination to do his duty as it had been revealed to him, Elder Cannon was given phenomenal courage and faith, and with it the gift of tongues, the power to understand and love the natives, and a magnetic spirit to attract their love and devotion to himself. Although he was the youngest of the group he soon became their leader, and remained so until the arrival of more elders from the States, with Philip B. Lewis as mission president. 167 These first missionaries, and those who succeeded them for many years afterwards, were real pioneers, and bore many hardships, but they were stalwart and faithful. Among the names of those early missionaries, was that of Joseph F. Smith, a mere boy of sixteen at the time, but with an integrity and faith unsurpassed in Latter-day Saint history. Joseph F. Smith performed four missions in Hawaii, and was dearly beloved by those people. In 1860, a man named Walter M. Gibson, who had recently been baptized into the Church, went to Hawaii, representing himself as president of the mission. This was when the saints on the islands had been left temporarily to themselves. On account of the Johnston Army trouble, the Utah elders had been called home. Gibson's spirit and policies were so utterly different from the real missionaries that the faithful saints became suspicious PULEHU CHAPEL AND MONUMENT This chapel and monument have been erected on the sacred ground where the first Hawaiian branch of the Church was organized. 168 L. D. S. HAWAIIAN RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 MISSION IN GRATEFUL REMEMBRANCE OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CHURCH IN HAWAII. NEAR THIS SPOT THE FIRST BAPTISM (PALE) WAS PERFORMED AND THE FIRST BRANCH OF THE CHURCH ORGANIZED IN 1851 BY GEORGE Q. CANNON AND JAMES KEELER INSCRIPTION ON THE PULEHU MONUMENT This inscription commemorates the organization of the first Hawaiian branch of the Church. and sent word to President Young. The apostles Ezra T. Benson and Lorenzo Snow, with Elders Joseph F. Smith, William W. Cluff, and Alma L. Smith, were sent in 1864 to the islands to investigate. Their findings proved that the fears of the natives were well-founded. Conditions were so bad that it was necessary to excommunicate Elder
Gibson. He had made many followers among those whose faith in the gospel was not strong. While going from one island to another, the small boat in which Brother Snow and the other elders were traveling, was upset in a turbulent sea. Those who reached the shore safely discovered that Brother Snow was missing. He was finally found under the capsized boat. He was carried to the beach by his anxious companions who worked valiantly to restore life in him, although the doctor had pronounced him dead. For fifteen minutes he had not breathed. But his brethren still clung to hope and faith. Finally, their prayers and efforts were rewarded. To those who saw this miraculous transformation from death to life, it must have been a lasting testimony that it was truly the work of God which Lorenzo Snow had been spared to do. WHEN their unpleasant task with Mr. Gibson was finished, Elders Snow and Benson returned to Utah, leaving Joseph F. Smith to preside over the mission. With the exception of Brother Snow's brief official work in Hawaii, Joseph F. Smith has been the only active Hawaiian missionary who became President of the Church. It has been said that "A singing people is a good people." That is true of the Hawaiians. They are a singing, happy, pleasure-loving people. And their happiness is largely HAWAII AND THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS in giving joy and happiness to others. A mutual feeling of interest and warm affection is characteristic of all missionaries and their converts. That is the spirit of the gospel. It seems to be particularly true of the Hawaiians and the messengers who brought them word of the everlasting gospel. These good people were apparently ready and waiting to receive the glad message. In eight months after the arrival of the first missionaries there were 220 converts; and before George Q. Cannon left, three and one half years later, there were 4,000. These figures are all the more astounding when one considers the tremendous handicaps under which the first group labored. They were pioneers, friendless, lacking in experience, ignorant of the language and habits of this foreign 169 people, on an uncharted sea, so to speak. Those who followed them had half their battle won by having the way opened to them, friends to greet them on their arrival, and initiate them into their work, converts already made and waiting to greet their new Latter-day Saint friends. In accepting the gospel, the people accepted the missionaries as well. They took them into their homes, waited on them, shared their meager supply of food, often denying themselves their portion to give to their visitors. The popular native "poi" was very distasteful to the missionaries. In My First Mission, George Q. Cannon wrote: I tasted a teaspoonful of poi, but the smell of it and the calabash in which it was contained was so much like that of a book binder's old, sour paste that when I THE CITY OF HONOLULU, HAWAII This photograph, taken from Aloha Tower, shows, on the right, the famous "Punch Bowl," where, it is believed, the first Latter-day Saint missionaries went to have prayer and dedicate the land, soon after their arrival December 12, 1850. Q. Cannon received instructions from the Lord, and was told to preach to the George natives of Hawaii. It was here that 170 put it in my mouth I gagged. But in travelling among the people I soon learned that if I did not eat poi I would put them to great inconvenience... And might interfere with my success. I therefore determined to live on their food. And that I might do so, I asked the Lord to make it sweet to me. The next time I tasted it I ate a bowlful. My prayer was answered. I positively liked it. It was sweeter to me than any food I had ever tasted. IN order to have a gathering place for the saints, a large tract of land was purchased by the Church. President Young wrote to King Kamehameha explaining the reason for the project: They will go there as religious teachers; but while this is their calling, they will not confine their labors to spiritual matters only. According to the precepts of our religion, the spiritual and temporal are so intimately blended that we view no salvation, or system of salvation, as being complete which does not provide for the welfare and preservation of the body as well as the spirit. For many years the saints labored on the plantations, but the results were somewhat disappointing. The fact that the missionaries in charge of the project were changed, as their missions ended, after about two years, added to the lack of success. Toward the end of the century, in 1885, the people were disheartened. A meeting was called to consider abandoning the project. President Joseph F. Smith was in the conference. He made a wonderful prophecy. He told the people that they should not despair. He promised them that beauty and fertility would result from their labors if they would be patient and faithful and diligent. To overcome one difficulty, the short-term supervision was abolRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 ished. Brother Samuel E. Woolley was called as permanent manager of the plantation. That proved to be a great advantage. Under his wise leadership and supervision, the prophecy of President Smith was fulfilled. The place has become beautiful and has prospered surprisingly. Besides becoming a financial asset to the Church, it has provided work and a comfortable living for many members. In 1900, on the fiftieth anniversary of the opening of the mission, President George Q. Cannon again visited Hawaii. There were some members still living who had known him half a century before, and there were many others who had heard of his remarkable work. He was greeted with wonderful demonstrations of love and respect. In the Hawaiian mission, the auxiliary organizations are in a favorable condition. The Relief Society, organized in 1875, is sustaining the ideals and standards of the original plan. Women in this endeavor have been as active and efficient as in every other phase of life. The Hawaiian sisters are to be commended for their exquisite needlework. Their lovely quilts, on which the work is perfect, are especially notable. For these, there is a constant market at excellent prices. Our Hawaiian sisters have adopted American ways in their homes, giving attention to sanitation, modern comfort and convenience. Besides the hundreds of men missionaries, there have been from 1851 to 1941, two hundred twenty-six sisters from the mainland who have gone as missionaries to the islands. Thus is the mighty work of the Lord carried on by his faithful people. Clean-up and Beautification Program James M. Kirkham Secretary, Church Beautification Committee EVERY ward and branch of the Latter-day Saint Church will be asked to take part this year in a clean-up and beautification program. The plan will include all chapels, buildings, grounds, and any vacant property the Church may own. The program will be so planned that it will encourage all members to beautify their homes and surroundings. A letter has been sent out by the Presiding Bishopric suggesting that the building supervisor in each stake, working under the direction of the stake presidency, will have charge of and direct the campaign in his respective stake. Ward bishoprics and branch presidencies will organize and call to their aid the local priesthood and auxiliary groups to help put over the program, without the expenditure of Church funds. It will be the purpose to thoroughly clean every nook and corner; and clearing of every closet will be part of the plan. Removing every fire hazard from and around our buildings will be emphasized. No extensive landscaping plans will be stressed at this time, but we will be asked to plant lawns and flowers. An appeal will be made for better sanitary conditions to help safeguard the health of our people. This program is not a new idea. Our pioneers, one hundred years ago, encouraged the members then to beautify and make their homes good places in which to live. President Brigham Young said: "Study order and cleanliness—adorn your city and neighborhood—make your home lovely— make it neat, nice, and clean. Set out flowers around the doors." The objective of the campaign will be to have clean places in which to worship and to make our homes better places in which to live. ... The fulness of the earth is yours.... Yea, and the herb, and the good things which cometh of the earth, whether for food or for raiment, or for houses, or for barns, or for orchards, or for gardens, or for vineyards. All things which come of the earth, in the season thereof, are made for the benefit and the use of man, both to please the eye and to gladden the heart.... To strengthen the body and to enliven the soul (D. & C. 59:16-19). Page 171 OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ALL NATIONS Own knitting are also essential. They who were most lovely were seated of the Junction City, as also several Bishops, presided with her usual quiet dignity; the principal subject