The Spirit of the Gospel, the Soul of Relief Society President Belle S. Spafford General President of Relief Society (Delivered at the afternoon session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, Thursday, September 30, 1948.) ARCH 17, 1842 in the Lodge Room over the Joseph Smith store, the Phophet Joseph Smith uttered words of lasting import to Latter-day Saint women when he said: "I now declare this society organized, with president and counselors, according to parliamentary usages." Addressing the eighteen women present on that memorable occasion, Elder John Taylor said that he "rejoiced to see this institution organized according to the law of heaven and to see all things moving forward in such a glorious manner." He prayed that "the blessings of heaven might rest upon this institution henceforth." Today, 106 years since Elder 'Taylor so spoke, tens of thousands of women rejoice that this society was organized. They see it moving forward in a glorious manner. Grateful for the heritage of the past, faithfully and devotedly meeting the assignments of the present, sagaciously planning and building for the future, they acknowledge that the blessings of heaven do indeed rest upon this society. There is within this society a great life-giving element—a spirit which reaches out to women from the eastern shores to the western shores of our own great country, into Mexico Page 148 and on south to the Latin lands of South America; it reaches into remote villages of Alaska and Canada; it extends into the continents of Europe and Asia, to South Africa and the islands of the sea, binding together women of all nationalities into a great sisterhood, unifying them in purpose and impelling them on to worthy accomplishment. This life-giving spirit is the spirit of the gospel; it is this which makes Relief Society different from other women's organizations the world over. It is this that gives to Relief Society its strength as well as its heart and soul. The spirit of the gospel, operating in the lives of Relief Society women, causes them to reach out for immortal treasures, to be not satisfied with values of passing worth; it leads them into experiences that bring real and enduring joy; it subdues selfishness within them and crowds out the spirit of criticism and faultfinding; it dissipates fear and builds confidence; it engenders within them a recognition of and a respect for an inspired Church leadership and bids them to render obedience to that leadership—not a reluctant, obligatory obedience, but a free, voluntary obedience actuated by love; it lifts them above the mean and petty things in life into the realm of that which is of good report and THE SPIRIT OF THE GOSPEL, THE SOUL OF RELIEF SOCIETY praiseworthy; it enables them to live useful, happy lives. It was the spirit of the gospel operating in the life of Eliza R. Snow that caused her to travel the weary path across the plains bearing with her the sacred book of records —the first minutes of our beloved Relief Society, containing instructions from our inspired Prophet which for more than a century have guided the society. It was the spirit of the gospel within her that decreed that she should go from door to door canvassing for students, who, according to the records, must be "possessed of nerve, energy, and ambition" to attend a school of medicine and surgery "for the instruction of females" in order that the medical and health needs of an isolated pioneering community might be met. T was the spirit of the gospel alive in the heart of Zina D. H. Young that caused her to accept, without thought of dissenting, a mission to lead the Relief Societies of the Church in a new and untried venture—the production of silk "that the sisters might do all in their power to clothe themselves and their families, and that home industry might be promoted." It was the spirit of the gospel active in the soul of Aunt Em that gave her the courage to lead the sisters in their strange mission of saving grain. To say that these missions were accepted without feelings of trepidation would be to misrepresent truth. However, fear of failure was not its cause, for these sisters had faith in the inspired leadership of the Priesthood authorities who di- 149 rected them, and a courage born of testimony. These feelings were but the result of an intelligent sensitiveness to the magnitude of their tasks and all that was involved in their fulfillment. Aunt Em, when eighty-four years old, addressing the sisters in general conference on the grain-saving program, expressed her feelings in these words: "I felt very timid and I was just about trembling when I went to talk the matter over with President Wells." (President Wells was counselor to President Brigham Young. ) Praiseworthy success crowned the efforts of these sisters in their varied undertakings. Today, a symbol of this success, there rise toward the heavens great elevators filled with grain as a result of the gamering in the fields by the sisters, who sold Sunday eggs, and quilts, rag carpets, and other products of their hands to earn funds with which to buy grain; disposed to do it because the spirit of the gospel bade them accept their missions and render loving obedience to Church leadership. This same spirit is active in the hearts of Relief Society women of this day. Only one year ago a Relief Society sister, president of a small branch of Mexican sisters, sat in this great Tabernacle and heard a plan proposed whereby the sisters of this day were to raise one-half million dollars for a Relief Society home. She, too, had feelings of trepidation because of the magnitude of the undertaking. But, strong in testimony, her response came: "T don't know how we can do it. But the First Presidency has authorized it. If they authorize it, it is right. If it is nght, we can do it." 150 And do it they did. The response of this sister was typical of that of sisters all over the Church—sisters imbued with the spirit of the gospel. Anxious hours have been my own lot in the planning and conduct of this great fund-raising program, but doubt has not been mine. Secure in the approval of the First Presidency, mindful of the support always given the sisters in their righteous undertakings by the Priesthood authorities, fully aware of the faithfulness and devotion of the sisters of this day, having a strong inner conviction that the undertaking was nght, a deep-seated, calm assurance has been mine that success would ultimately attend our efforts. And the future will see a Relief Society home rise, a monument to the devotion of the sisters of this day—evidence that the spirit of the gospel has been with them. The spirit of the gospel will always exist within this Society in direct ratio to the strength of the testimonies of the women who make up its membership. A knowledge of the gospel, obedience to its teachings, a willingness to keep the commandments of God on the part of Relief Society women are prerequisites to their well-being as individuals and to the well-being of Relief Society as an organization. The Second Epistle of John, addressed to a woman, "unto the elect lady," may appropriately be addressed to Relief Society women today: Grace be with you, mercy, and peace, from God the Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love.... And now I beseech thee, lady, not as though I wrote a new commandment unto thee, but that which RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 we had from the beginning, that we love one another. And this is love, that we walk after his commandments. This is the commandment, That, as ye have heard from the beginning, ye should walk in it.... Look to yourselves, that we lose not those things which we have wrought, but that we receive a full reward (Second Epistle of John, verses 3, 5, 6, and 8). In the gospel of St. John we read this message of the Master to his children: If ye love me, keep my commandments. He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him. If a man love me, he will keep my words: and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode with him (John 14:15, 21, 23). The Lord will come unto Relief Society; he will make his abode with us, and the blessings of heaven will rest upon our beloved society so that -it will continue to move forward in a glorious manner if we who make up its membership will but love the Lord and keep his commandments. Our work will be accomplished with a glad heart and a cheerful countenance and we as individuals will receive the rewards of nghteousness— even peace in this world and eternal life in the world to come. I know that this gospel is true. This testimony sweeps over me at times with an almost startling reality. There is a Father to whom we may go in prayer and find comfort and sustenance, inspiration, and guidance. Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, chosen to bring to earth in this dispensation the gospel of Christ, the only plan by which we may live and gain exaltation in (Continued on page 209) Shird Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Compromise Mildred R. Stutz URIEL watched her daughM ter Connie walk up the path toward the front door. Her books were tucked under her arm, her saddle Oxfords scuffed the wet pavement slightly. Her blonde head was stiffly erect and she gave no indication that she was aware of the girls walking down the sidewalk behind her. Muriel sighed and turned from the rain-drenched window. There was no sense in letting Connie know that her lonesomeness was not a secret. The door opened and Connie came in. "Hello, Mother," she said, "mmmmm, something smells good—baked ham?" "Yes, orders from the boss. Is it still raining?" "Cats and dogs,' Connie answered. She tossed her books on a chair and walked into the dining oom with her mother. The table was set for twelve. Gleaming linen, silver, and crystal were accentuated by a centerpiece of early spring flowers. Muriel looked at the table with satisfaction. "Dinner party?" Connie asked. "Yes, prospective customers. Loads of money." Muriel felt a stab of uneasiness—almost like guilt. It had been lingering inside her all day as she had gone about preparing for the dinner party. "Don't look so worried, Mother MILDRED R. STUTZ dear,' Connie said flippantly, "] promise not to drink out of my saucer. In fact, if you don't mind, I think I'll take in a movie. I don't relish spending an evening in a business conference." Muriel smiled fondly at her daughter. She was glad she had made the suggestion. "Of course I don't mind, dear. These people wouldn't be interesting to you anyway." A wave of relief washed over Muriel, followed by the guilt again. "If there isn't anything I can do to help you, I think I'll study for awhile." Page 151 152 "Go ahead, Connie. Mrs. Keller is here to help in the kitchen and do the serving. I don't think there's anything you can do." Connie walked slowly up the stairs. Watching her go, Muriel's heart ached for her. It wasn't right that a young girl should be so alone. Why couldn't she adjust to the new town? 'True, it held little resemblance to the town she had grown up in, but Connie was sixteen, and, surely, she was old enough to trealize that nothing stayed the same forever. Lakeside had been such a peaceful, quiet, little place. Looking back on it now, it seemed almost dull. Everybody knew everybody: else. They went to Church on Sunday, did their laundry on Monday, and chatted over the back fence as they hung the clothes to dry. They visited in the grocery store and compared price lists and grocery bills. Scottsville was different. There was so much to be done. The big old house had been completely redecorated. John's office had changed from empty storerooms to an attractive suite. His business was building up fast and they were meeting all the right people. [N her room, Connie stared moodily at the rain sliding down the window pane. There was really no reason why she should study tonight. She was already far ahead of the rest of the class. She made a few doodles on the flyleaf of her notebook, walked to the window, back to the dressing table, and finally back to her books. She might as well study, there was nothing else to do. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 Muriel moved from kitchen to dining room, giving efficient instructions to Mrs. Keller and attending to details that required her skilled touch. It was going to be a lovely party. The guests were, for the most part, strangers to her. They were people who had great influence both socially and financially. They could mean a lot to the business. Muriel had been to enough dinner parties in Scottsville to know how vastly they differed from the parties at Lakeside. They had a sophistication about them that did not come easily for Muriel. She had been born in a religious family and had grown up in a religious town. The moral values taught her from childhood had never been questioned, and she had passed the same teachings on to her daughter. It was John who had first felt the bonds of their provincialism. In his business he came in contact with many people. They were people more worldly and less hampered with moral laws than he was used to dealing with; but they had money and influence, and John's business needed both. Muriel opened the refrigerator and tried to ignore the unfamiliar bottles inside. She shifted them about and was irked that the guilty feeling still persisted. She turned to see Connie coming in the door. She was angry with herself for quickly closing the door, so she busied herself about the kitchen to conceal her annoyance. "How about a handout, Mother, I'm starved?" Connie sliced some bread and buttered it. She pulled some leaves from some lettuce, folded them between the bread, and COMPROMISE viewed the sandwich appraisingly. 'Some mayonnaise and a pickle, and I'll have a piece of art," she laughed. Muriel felt a strange prickling on the back of her neck as she saw her daughter cross the room and open the refrigerator door. Connie gave a low whistle and exclaimed, puzzled, "For Pete sake, what's this? A brewery?", Muriel tried to sound nonchalant. "People around here are different than they were at Lakeside. 'They don't have the same—ideologies." "Yes," said Connie, her brown eyes troubled. "I've noticed a difference among the kids at school. They don't act the way I do." Muriel hurried on, uncomfortable, "The contacts your father makes here tonight are very important. These people can mean a lot to the business. We've got to make them like us—we've got to go halfway." Muriel knew her explanation sounded weak. The thought occurred to her that she was explaining to herself as much as to Connie. She wondered if the explanation was as unsatisfactory. CONN IE ate her snack in silence, and Muriel, unable to feel at ease, excused herself to go dress. It was nearly time for the first picture at the Embassy, so Connie took her raincoat and umbrella from the hall closet and, calling a quick goodbye to her mother, stepped out into the early spring evening. Raindrops splashed in the puddles along the sidewalk, making the reflected street lights dance crazily. The steady drumming of the rain on her umbrella was comforting to Connie—comforting and yet a lonesome sound, She walked slowly, counting 153 the squares in the sidewalk, watching people move about behind lightly curtained windows. A very noisy jalopy clattered down the street. Connie recognized a number of students she had seen about the campus. The movie was dull. Connie sat through one feature and then, because it was still too early to go home, stayed for a cartoon and newsreel. It was still raining as she left the theater and hurried down the sidewalk toward the drugstore. She was about to enter when a gitl's voice called, "Hey, Connie, come here." Turning slowly, she saw the old battered jalopy parked at the curb. She hesitated a moment and then approached the car. She didn't know the girl who called to her, but it was nice having someone know her name. "Climb in, Connie, we'll take you home." The driver of the car was a large, dark fellow Connie had seen at school. He had always seemed friendly even though he appeared somewhat older than most of the students. "No, thanks, I think I'll walk—it isn't far." "Aw, come on, Connie," someone said, "there's plenty of room." The car door opened and Connie saw five or six boys and girls inside. Some of them looked familiar, others were strangers, but they were all laughing and joking and urging her to join them. It was warm inside and the rain danced merrily against the tin top, and everyone seemed to be having fun. Connie smiled uncertainly, "All tight," she said and stepped inside. There was a faint odor of tobacco 154 smoke and some unfamiliar smell she couldn't identify. In the back seat the boys and girls shifted about to make room for her. She felt herself pulled down onto someone's lap, and arms held her firmly. The car jerked to a start. HEY careened down the wet streets and stopped in front of Connie's home. The lights were burning brightly and strange cars were parked in the driveway. "You don't have to go in yet do you, Connie?" they kept asking, "4t's only a little after ten-thirty." "T'm supposed to be in before eleven," she said. '""Won't your old man let you stay out later than that?" Connie tried to be as gay as they were, "Oh, I'd better check in," she said. "Look, Connie, why don't we all drive out to Traveler's Inn and have a snack or something. We'll bring you right back and you'll be in before midnight easy." They were all coaxing. They acted like they really wanted her to go. "Traveler's Inn," she asked, "where's that?" There was a slight pause. "Oh, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 it's a little place just outside the city limits—not very far." Someone giggled and the arm around Connie tightened slightly. "TH tell you what I'll do," she said, "I'll run in and tell Mother and Dad where I'm going, and if they say it's all right, I'll be back." She ran lightly up the walk. It was fun having friends again. The uneasiness she had felt when she first entered the car was slipping away, and now the invitation to Traveler's Inn, whatever that was, sounded full of fun and excitement. If only the folks would let her go. Of course, it was late and she hardly knew the crowd she was going with, but—well—maybe they'd let her go. She followed the sound of voices down the hall to the living room. Through the glass-paneled doors she could see her parents and their guests. 'They were seated comfortably about the room. Connie could tell that her father was making what he called the "right contacts." Her mother was serving a drink of some kind to a big, bloated man who lolled awkwardly against the mantle. The room was clouded with smoke. Connie turned slowly and stood in the shadows of the hall. For a (Continued on page 213) Craig, Tommy, and Lanny. Biology at Snow Junior College. Between household tasks." Mildred R. Stutz, Ephraim, Utah, a comparatively new writer, tells us that she is twenty-eight years old, "and the mother of four little boys: Kent, My husband, Howard C. Stutz, is professor of We are members of the Ephraim South Ward, active in Mutual, Sunday School, and other Church and civic auxiliaries. Because of my family of small children, I am unable to be an active member of Relief Society, but I enjoy the Magazine and the visiting teachers. "I have had one poem published in The Relief Society Magazine. Throughout my school years I won several contests, the most important being the Edward W. Bentley Short Story Contest at Bngham Young University. I enjoy writing, but, like most mothers, find it necessary to sandwich my hobby Relief Si octety Building Vlews HE names of the following branches in missions have not previously been published in The Relief Society Magazine as having completed their Building Fund quotas: Besancon Branch, French Mission Bruxelles Branch, French Mission Charleroi Branch, French Mission Eua Branch, Tongan Mission Fatai Branch, Tongan Mission Fahefa Branch, Tongan Mission Faleloa Branch, Tongan Mission Feletoa Branch, Tongan Mission Fotua Branch, Tongan Mission Foui Branch, Tongan Mission Liege Branch, French Mission Loto Ha'apai Branch, Tongan Mission Makeke Branch, Tongan Mission Malapo Branch, Tongan Mission Matahau Branch, Tongan Mission Mu'a Branch, Tongan Mission Nakolo Branch, Tongan Mission Nakuw'alofa Branch, Tongan Mission Neiafu Branch, Tongan Mission Nagaunoho Branch, Tongan Mission Fua'omotu Branch, Tongan Mission Geneva Branch, French Mission Ha'akame Branch, Tongan Mission Ha'alaufuli Branch, Tongan Mission Ha'ateiho Branch, Tongan Mission Neuchatel Branch, French Mission Nukunuku Branch, Tongan Mission Otea Branch, Tongan Mission -Pangai Branch, Tongan Mission Ramah Branch, South African Mission Halaloto Branch, Tongan Mission Herstal Branch, French Mission Houma Branch, Tongan Mission Koloa Branch, Tongan Mission Kolonga Branch, Tongan Mission La Chaux de Fonds Branch, French Mission Lausanne Branch, French Mission Liahona Branch, Tongan Mission Seraing Branch, French Mission Strasbourg Branch, French Mission Tokomololo Branch, Tongan Mission Tuanekivale Branch, Tongan Mission Tuanuku Branch, Tongan Mission Uiha Branch, Tongan Mission Vaini Branch, Tongan Mission Verviers Branch, French Mission Page 155