March winds still blow and toss the kites on high. His kite is dusty, lying idly by; The pussy willows grow; the birds still nest; He doesn't go a-hunting with the rest. The dandelions dance in April rains; He bound my heart to his with pale green chains. I hope there are pussy willows, kites, and dandelions Up in heaven. St with Sophistication hich, é hen she after all, jg quite foolish as I dis. To alifornig Emi COvered tha Morning when I went COdrow oft it in the "aie Geb ie cal] Y were very natura] and Nephew and his wife from Indiang friendly, not Sophisticated at all. Lhe young man, a Colleg Professor, Tom Aadfie himse] answered tad SOCS TCE ge, Offer ¢ teach a the d Or. He was a tall, thin man, Our VENVCrGHiay fay, the summe > and with CVe glasses, and hair that was Mily was delighted. Clinitely slippin ot exactly good. "80 happy to "€ someone looking, lean-looking Would fit him In the Place fo, th summer," She b tter, an INntellig, nt, the kind of fold me, "| Never have ]j ced closing an one n it up, but 7 didn't like Tenting to 'rangers, O Tom e aten't enough Y hours ip the day" L4 good neigh. "How wel] I know that. This r ke you," Morning J didn' ve a Class, but here J 4M Correct; f women re. Y* Ss": not beautiful, Sa lovely MOrning isn't It? "Ople from think we're §lng to like your city, WE ARE SO BUSY We've never been here before, I mean I haven't. Tom was _ here once when he was a child." "Things have changed a great deal since then," I told her. "I think our biggest changes have come since the war." _We got started on the war then. Mr. Hadfield had been in the navy and since my Bob had been in the navy, too, we had a common interest. From the war we went to economics. It was the subject nearest his heart since he taught it. Mrs. Hadfield added her share to the conversation in a way which indicated that she, also, was educated. They asked me all about the city. Especially they were interested in Temple Square. "Your Tabernacle organ," Mrs. Hadfield asked, "would there be any chance to hear it? I play the organ a little myself, so I'm partial to organ music." I was very happy to tell her about the organ recital every day at noon, "T'll tell you what," I volunteered, "If you like, I'll go with you someday. Maybe I can show you a few things that you might not see if you went alone." "Would you? Oh, I'd love that. Pll be looking forward to it." Both of them invited me to come again soon and I assured them that I would. (CROSSING the yard to our house, I decided that I would try to find a day next week to go to the organ recital with Lucille Hadfield, but I didn't. Very suddenly Margey and Brad decided to get married in July instead of waiting until September. There were so many things 179 for me to attend to, as there always are for a bride's mother no matter how simple the wedding may be The days slipped by. I saw my neighbor quite often during the afternoons sitting in Emily's hammock in the back yard. Always she was just sitting, not reading, not sewing, just sitting. And always I Was surprised, she had impressed me as being so full of energy that I couldn't associate idleness with her. A few times I stopped by the fence and talked to her, and she seemed so interested in whatever I had to say. I apologized for not having had a chance to go to town with her. She was very understanding. "I know all about weddings," she told me. "We had three in the family last summer. Actually we were 4 little tired of them before it was all over." "IT should think so. Well, it's over now and I won't be so busy. Why don't we plan to go to the recital this Wednesday, or maybe you've already gone." "No, I haven't. I'll be looking forward to Wednesday, then." "Good. We can go to lunch af. Ter and make a day of it, if you'd like." But on Tuesday night Dan's sister Beth came in from St. George. It was always nice to have Beth and since she came so seldom I did like to spend the time with her' while she was here. Much as I hated to disappoint Lucille Hadfield, I just couldn't go. "Of course, I understand perfectly," she answered, when I called her. "Don't worry about me, I can go just anytime." "Tm surprised Lucille hasn't become discouraged and gone by her- 180 sclf," I told Beth as I hung up the phone. "She probably has," Beth replied. "I wouldn't be concerned about it
She probably goes to town every day, with nothing at all to do. | don't imagine that she is too lonesome." "IT guess not, but I am going to spend an afternoon in town with her before she leaves to go home since I suggested it." It was my turn to entertain my club on the first Thursday in August and I decided to ask Lucille Hadfield to come. Although I had invited her over repeatedly a special invitation would make her know that I was sincere in my efforts to be friendly. "This is Kate Crandall," I said when she answered the phone. "Oh, hello," her voice was sunny. "It's nice to hear from you. "Did you have a nice visit with your sister-in-law?"' "Yes, I did. You see I was teared in the country, too, and she brings me up to date on rural things." "Tm rural-minded, too. Most of the time I find the city rather dull." "Well, it can be. What I called for is to ask you to come to my club on Thursday afternoon if you will, It's here at my house. There are about a dozen of us. It isn't a card club, more of an art club. Sometimes we sew or have a book report. This time we are having a lesson on stencil painting. Have you ever done any?" "No-no, I haven't." "Well, it's simple to learn. ['m going to town tomorrow, and I'l] get the materials you'll need for you if you'd like me to." There was a long pause then. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 When she finally answered I was prepared for her excuse. "Pm so sorry, Mrs. Crandall." Her voice sounded strained and so different from what it usually did. "But I just remembered that I'm meeting 'om tomorrow afternoon. He doesn't have a class and we're going to town." It was a very lame excuse; quite obviously she didn't want to come. I hung up the phone, feeling like I had been slapped. It sounded so unlike her. Maybe, after all, she wasn't interested in being anything but a casual acquaintance. Maybe all of her friendliness was only a charming front. Still, she 'had always shown so much interest in whatever I had talked to her about, and had seemed so enthusiastic when I had suggested taking her to an Organ recital.... Maybe, after all, I should just skip the whole thing. She had never been in my house, and now she had made it plain that she didn't care to come to my club. So I forgot about it. THE August days hurried by, with autumn sneaking quietly toward us. I had seen very little of Lucille since I had called her. Sometimes. From my kitchen window, I would see her sitting out in the hammock. One time I waved to her, but she didn't wave back, so she must not have seen me. I was working out in the back one evening after dinner when Mr. Hadfield drove into his yard. | could see that he was alone and that seemed rather odd because she was always with him. Then I remembered that I hadn't seen her for days. (Continued on page 214) 182 BOOKS BY THE FIREPLACE ARE CONVENIENT AND ATTRACTIVE Too often the volumes in this group get jumbled together so that they detract from the appearance of the home. This condition can quickly be improved by working over this collection, disposing of all waste material, and classifying and filing in a suitable cabinet or file case all pamphlets and papers which are worthy of saving. Such a cabinet is easily made by a handy man, or it can be purchased for a few dollars. Then, using paste, shears, transparent tape, and binding cloth, repair all volumes which have become frayed or torn. This can be developed into an interesting hobby. Finally, important volumes should be rebound, to ensure their preservation. After these things have been done, give this group of books a wellchosen place on the shelves, and they will add greatly to the general tone of the home library. A fourth group of books offers special incentive for display. 'These books are the new ones in their RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 bright jackets, and books which are constantly referred to, such as the standard works of the Church in their prim embossings. 'They challenge attention at once, and since they are currently being read anyway, they look well between bookends, or in a special place of honor on the shelves, within easy reach at all times. They may grace a table or a desk, subject, however, to frequent change. This part of the collection might be considered the priming spark of interest. Cared for along these lines, the home library becomes not merely a supply of books, but a vital, growing entity of book charm, always an important part of the home decoration, always a storehouse of knowledge and inspiration, becoming richer with the passing years. KEEP THE NEWEST BOOKS HANDY TAKE CARE OF YOUR BOOKS an: 183 THE BREAKFRONT IS A NATURAL DEPOSITORY FOR THE BEST VOLUMES a —<- G Have Ilo Need Grace Zenor Pratt 1 do not need a portrait of your face. Each loved, remembered feature I can trace With tender care. An art of memory. I do not need a record of your voice; To me, each cadence is as clear as some sweet melody Which, half-forgotten, springs to life again. I have no need for pictures to reveal the way You smile; your charm, the things you do and say.. I hold you close, so close against my heart— But sometimes I have need to speak your name I wait your coming when the hour grows late— And earth seems lonely as some distant star. I have no need for portraits of you, dear; I feel your presence; you are always near. I speak your name... And hear your answer, too, Remembering the long, long hours with you. How to Make a Pleated Skirt Lena DuPaix raw a pencil line as shown in figure 1. Place the material on the ironing board. Start at a seam and measure a pleat with the marker as in figure 2. Be sure the fold of the pleat is exactly on the lengthwise thread of the material. Pin pleat at either end and through center as figure 3 shows. Is stretched tight from end to end so the pleats will lie quite flat. Then, beginning at the edge of the first pleat made, measure out 1 inch, pin pleat at either end and through I = i—_} [ it {RONING t__ az I a BOARD FNS. 3 SHOWING POSITION OF | PINS IN PLEATS ON BOARD | —L MATERIAL a uu x | io < | a lt | I" PLEAT | 4 FIG. 4 7 a SHOWING PLEATS PINNED ON ee | ~- FIG. 4 prwetiee IRONING BOARD READY FOR PRESSING MARKED FOR USE SHOWING HOW TO PLACE IN PLEATING SKIRT MARKER ON MATERIAL FIG. 5 COMPLETED SkIRT FIG. & _ "| SHOWING PROCEEDURE VHOER Lap 4°. J FOR MAKING SKIRT 1" PLEAT: WITH LESS MATERIAL HOW TO MAKE A PLEATED SKIRT 185 To pleat a skirt using less material, use twice the hip measurement. Follow the same directions used for deeper pleats, but lap the pleats under only % the full width of each pleat. On the cardboard marker measure and make a Y -inch line then measure 1 inch for the width of pleat, but fold under only % inch as figure 6 shows. After the materia] is pleated, remove from the board and baste the Pleats in place at the top edge of skirt, and pull basting stitch up to the waist measurement, or to fit the size of waistband. — ~~~. — Compensa tion Jessie M. Robinson I thought life dul] with barren deeds, As futile as the meadow weeds. Ere was a field my father had here planted "TOPS were always bad, But lush with Queen Anne's Lace— What a lovely place! They Are Not Mine Caroline Eyring Miner nourish and cherish the body, for it is mine. God may at any time claim his Own again, the spirit of my child. At my table today sit three guests. Only yesterday I called them mine, Today I call them God's. They are in uy Cate, possessing bodies ] made for them, which I must ep warm, keep Properly nourished, keep clean, so that the guests will not tire of in. Hospitable surroundings, They are with me in this strange country to gain experience, And when their visit js ended, and they. Have gone Home, if I am still here, J 'shall be lonely and | shall weep, Perhaps, but I shall know them again. How to Make an Embroidery Floss Case (Handy Hint for the Sewing Bag) Afton N. Porter 1 ters are few things more annoying or more time-consuming than that tangled ball of embroidery cotton. Here is a very simple solution to the "knotty" problem. Take a piece of lightweight, white material—voile or thin muslin is very suitable—16% inches long and twice as wide as you wish the case to be (24 inches is a good width). Make a % inch hem on each end. Join sides A and B and turn right side out. Make rows of stitching from C to D about % inches apart across the entire width of the case. Cut skeins of 6-ply embroidery cotton as usual, and with a safety pin lace them through these stitched spaces. You will have one of the neatest and handiest articles for your sewing bag you have ever owned. Not only does it keep your thread clean, but it permits you to draw out one or several threads at a time without tangling the entire skein. 24" A B Cc t qT T t eee T T T t a | T T enehtael T T a | T T ies T T T cia ede ale ee Oeeeeeen, CHOIEt Ped eh ee ea ne ee ee Tarra reae. Ee. Bdo TRO eae PPP tse > aaa Gnas SPeeipae tele Sea Leeee ik Seeeene) Suet rt tC Toa Dees ov fe fee ei ti eet teem y Peep eee ea GEE E Rs | eure SeLUALL hea) Pee eee fetes SOR eeeeelcasy | lFho } oa eee (ical ht eee ee Ue LO D 4__|___ fs a | ik Mitel tl Stitching in rows 3" apart Page 186 16%" 16%" That's My Towel! Ivie H. Jones ela wear out faster by washing than by wiping. No one wants to wipe on a towel someone else has used, so into the wash it goes. When towels are both colorful and plentiful, we have a different color for each member of the family. Sometimes they are just white towels with the stripes of the colors. As each child came into our home, we added a different color. Children like the feeling of ownership, and I'm sure you will find, as we did, that they will soon take delight in hanging up their own towels and in keeping them clean. I can just hear our tiny tots, pointing to the wet clothes on the line on washday, saying: "That's my towel. When will it be dry?" And I seldom put them away after washday, for willing hands were anxiously waiting to put their own towels away and hurry back to take the stacks for Mother, Father, Grandpa, or guest. There have been times when we could not buy the particular color we ase SO we labeled the towels and the racks, being sure that each member of the family, as well as guests, had his own towel. It doesn't take long to write the names in large letters and with a coarse boilproof silkaline thread, chain stitch over the letters using a particular color of thread for each member of the family
and for the guest. Name tags for labeling the towel racks can be purchased at most any book and stationery store or they can be made of a strip of used tin can, bending both edges over a knife blade to allow the insertion of the name card. Try labeling your towels, and it will surprise you how few towels you will have in the wash each week and how long they will wear. 'a 1 Art Seacher C. Cameron Johns You taught me the clean, sweet taste Of poetry on the tongue The slim inquiring fingers of music And, even though you are gone, My years are still scented With the fragrance Of your laughter. Page 187 Antiques to Know and Cherish Lorene Pearson Illustrations by Elizabeth Williamson HERE is much in the history of New England that approximates the history of Utah. Both regions were settled by farmers, craftsmen, and small tradesmen who came to their respective wildernesses with the idea of staying and of multiplying, that the convictions for which they suffered exile might be established solidly on a spot of earth that would forever thereafter bear the stamp of their peculiar faith. Both brought with them, or made upon arrival, furniture and household utensils that reminded them of their former homes. American ingenuity, nurtured in this new land, improved upon these articles or was responsible for new inventions. Many of these objects, those so perilously brought on the first journeys, and those lovingly developed, have become dear to us; they are the things that survive ll manner of other changes in our lives. Beginning with the hearth—the first consideration in any home—we have first of all the open fireplace. In our own day the stove in various guises has become more economical, but perhaps the most charming and useful heating unit of all was the cross between the two—the Franklin stove, invented by Benjamin Franklin and used for generations. The idea behind the Franklin stove was one of retaining the wasted heat of the open hearth while at the same time having the open flame. It was a cast-iron affair capable of being Page 188 moved from room to room, and of being vented in the old fireplace. So successful were these stoves that quantities of the original were produced and reproductions and variations have been manufactured down to this day. Lucky is the person who owns one or has a friend who owns one and will permit the toasting of shins at such a comfortable hearth. Next in importance to the pioneer and to the homemaker today comes the table. Fortunate is the person whose family has owned and cherished any of the Early American tables. One of the most charming, in the original and in reproduction, is the butterfly dropleaf type with canted leg, derived possibly from English pieces of the sixteenth or seventeenth century, but in the form we know it, distinctly American. It has always an oblong fixed top supported by four turned legs slanting outward with stretchers near the base, and with two wings which swing out to support two drop leaves. Now that we have a fire and a place at which to eat, we can think next of a place on which to sit, that is, to sit comfortably. At first it was enough to have benches and stools and straight-back chairs, but soon American ingenuity came into play, and the rocker was invented. Several types developed, so thoroughly did the idea take our forefathers by storm, but none was more popular than the so-called Boston rocker. Tress eae! | I _ Pa 3 ies i= he - JS ZY] td = ee =. HOW MANY OF THESE ANTIQUES CAN YOU IDENTIFY? (Answers on page 191) Page 189 190 The making of it was not confined to the area whose name it carried; eventually, every state in the Union had factories; and England, France, Holland, Sweden, and Germany all produced copies. Since 1840, many have been exported to all parts of the world. 'The rocking chair seems to have fallen somewhat into disuse in these days of overstuffed furniture, but there can be a niche for one in any household for use in mending socks, reading a good book, or nursing an infant, and in a home where quilt-making is still a joy, there can be no mote satisfactory arrangement. HEN came the need for a clock to tick away the hours, to add more exactness than the sun could give. Grandfather clocks, of course, were wonderful, but required space, then as now. More practical, more truly American, less expensive, was the banjo clock to hang upon the wall. It is completely functional, and therefore beautiful as well; inside the banjo every part is as carefully lanai as the genius of Simon Willard could make it; outside, the shape is lovely and appropriate for fine carving and gilding. It might almost be said that there has never been an ugly banjo clock, original or reproduction. An article not so much used these days when cooking is not done over the open flames in the fireplace, but one none the less intriguing when owned and used, is the trivet. It is a small, three-legged iron stand with a top large enough to balance a kettle and with a handle to shift it here and there among the live coals for maximum or minimum heat as the housewife may desire. These are still RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 rather widely used in England to boil a pot of water. Many small, useful articles were produced in the early years of settlement and later; these have become collectors' items. Among the glass objects for decoration and use were castors, which consisted of bottles for oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and other daily table needs nested together on a handled stand that could be carried to and from the table with minimum effort. Another little article was the penny bank, which took many beautiful forms; some may be found in tin, in wood, in glass, in pottery. It might be well to think of them as more than decorative in these days, as well as in those other days when thnft was emphasized. There were, of course, many purely decorative pieces made, particularly as the Victorian era approached. There were the quaint hands terminated at the wrist, made of glass or metal or china, attractively sculptured to catch the imagination. Another Victorian bibelot was made by placing wax flowers or small statuettes under a beautiful glass dome; it was called a glass bell. Many creations of the hours of feminine leisure in those times of fantastic redundancy found shelter under the bell. One of the most beautiful of all the small objects made in recent and ancient times was the glass paperweight. All of us are familiar with the solid half-ball of clear glass, but how many are aware of the variety of exquisite designs imprisoned within the antique ones! The production of these was a resurgence of an old art developed by the Egyptians in the twelfth century, B. C. ANTIQUES TO KNOW AND CHERISH About the time of Cleopatra the Romans revived the idea; factories later sprang up all over Europe; it is not strange to see that the American craftsman was attracted to this difficult but rewarding art form. The making of paperweights spans a long period in our country; the Millville rose, one of the most attractive, was made as late as 1912. Fine paperweights were never inexpensive, and 1 as they have become collectors' items, they are one of the mote costly treasures to add to one's home. For those who cannot afford to collect, or do not wish to collect, there is joy in becoming acquainted with these and other antiques and in seeing them in museums or the homes of others, for they are part of our national heritage, our way of life. IDENTIFICATION OF ANTIQUES PICTURED ON Page 189 ba. Glass paper weight 2. Victonan Hand. Victorian glass bell for wax flowers, statuettes, horsehair wreaths, etc.. Boston Rocker Butterfly dropleaf table (canted leg) yb ow 6. Trivet made of wrought iron 7. Penny Bank 8. Castor 9. Banjo Clock 10. Franklin Stove Cotton Storm Leone E. McCune The market must have dropped today, The price can't be so high, Go fetch my dusty sewing kit, For cotton's raining from the sky. Overtone Dorothy J. Roberts ' So faint a sound to pierce my lethargy, Only an overtone escaping from your word, Some undefinable in minor key, Beyond all meter, rather felt than heard. Small as a seed in my heart's darkened loam, Its roots have quickened in my hungering Till its stock and pedicel are phlox in bloom, More swift, more beautiful, than sudden spring. Cakes Decorated and Designed at Home Eva Willes Wangsgaard ECORATING birthday and wedding cakes can be done at home by any woman with a keen desire, a little creative energy, and a fund of imagination. Some cakes that I saw recently, created and finished by Mrs. Alvin Larsen of Logan, Utah, would fire the imagination and stir the desire in any homemaker, especially one with small children. The tools needed are simple and easily procured at the five-and-dime stores or can be made easily at home. Mrs. Larsen makes many of her implements out of ordinary typing paper folded and cut on the diagonal. The resulting triangle is rolled into a funnel for holding the decorating icing. The tip may be snipped in various designs for very pleasing results. The beauty of the cake depends on the patience and the craftsmanship of the creator. Mrs. Larsen creates all her own recipes both for the cakes and for the icings and blends the standard flavors for individuality and variety. Her decorated cakes, both body and decorations, taste as pretty-as they look, and they look prettier than the first bluebird in spring. Naturally, she doesn't want to divulge all her secrets, but she was kind enough to give me a basic recipe for a child's birthday cake and for the icing to glamorize it. These you will find at the end of this article. Page 192 Let me tell you about some birthday cakes she has made, cakes that you may imitate or that will inspire you with ideas of your own. Judy's was a two-layered, butter sponge cake, ten inches in_ diameter. It was enveloped in pale pink icing and sported a border of rose-pink rosebuds and white daisies with silver centers. Pairs of bluebirds rested among the flowers, four to a wreath. Inside the floral border the inscription read, "Happy Birthday, Judith!" In the center, held high on a concealed paper cup, stood a storybook doll, "Cinderella at the Ball," in a deep rose evening gown. We cut into it, and um-m-m, it was so good you could scarcely stop eating! Michael's was a similar cake iced in yellow. Sixteen little merry-goround horses, complete with flowing manes, arched tails, saddles and bridles, galloped around the border. All of these were made of delicious icing. Peppermint sticks held up the paper canopy and the birthday greeting was written in blue icing. Another idea this home artist has conceived is a nursery rhyme cake with such figures as Old King Cole, Little Bo-Peep, Little Boy Blue, etc., decorating the top. MP. Larsen makes the _ roses, birds, and other decorative figures the day before the cake is baked or earlier the same day so CAKES DECORATED AND DESIGNED AT HOME that they will be dry and firm by the time the cake is iced. She builds each little flower on a bottle cap, making one petal at a time. Fully opened roses, orange blossoms, and other flowers made full-faced, are completed with their tiny gold Ben Hains 193 stamens. She always uses a homemade paper tube for forming birds. These figures are attached to the iced cake with icing which holds them as it
sets. _ You may think Mrs. Larsen must be a trained expert and that what "MERRY-GO-ROUND CAKE" 194 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 Benny Degn SANDRA LARSEN, LOGAN, UTAH, AND HER FIRST BIRTHDAY CAKE she can do has no relationship to what you can accomplish, but she is just a housewife like you and me who has taught herself every step of the way by the trial and error method, with only a talent for design and a great joy in creation behind her. Many women have these traits and are unaware of them. Why not get the few inexpensive pastry tubes and implements which you can buy at the five-and-dime, cut out a few paper triangles, take these basic recipes, and try your hand at the young fry's birthday cake? You may find not only joy for yourself and your children, but you may branch out, as several women I know have, making cakes for fees and winning prizes at the state fairs.. One caution Mrs. Larsen asked me to give you is this: do keep your colors pastel. A drop or two of coloring in a batch of icing for figures is sufficient. Also, she says that she paints the eyes and beaks of the birds and tints the edges of fancy petals with a toothpick dipped in cake coloring after the figures are dry. Another tip, vegetable shortening, being white, is better to use than butter in icings which are to be tinted. BUTTER SPONGE CAKE eggs, beat one at a time in batter. NN eR cup shortening, butter and vegetable shortening half and half. Cup sugar, cream in shortening, preferably by electric mixer. Egg yolks, add one at a time and beat lightly at slower rate. CAKES DECORATED AND DESIGNED AT HOME 195 2 cups sifted cake flour, 2 tsp. Baking powder, sifted together. " tsp. Salt. 1 cup milk. Add alternately sifted dry ingredients and milk, beginning with flour and ending with flour. Beat slowly three minutes. Add flavoring, banana, tropical fruit, vanilla, or your own blend of any of these. Pour into well-greased 10-inch cake pans, 1-inch deep, lined with greased waxed paper. Bake in moderate oven (350 degrees) for 20 minutes or until firm. ICING 1 lb. Powdered sugar canned milk, sufficient to make a creamy consistency. Add a little at a time while beating. 1 heaping tbsp. Vegetable shortening Beat at a slow rate for three minutes. Add a few grains of salt and flavor, add coloring if desired. For figures and flowers, make the above recipe, or a portion of it, very stiff with more powdered sugar and beat smooth. A Birthdays aed Wedding oF pesccmscmias Remember the Women of Your Family with a Subscription to the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Use this Coupon Enclosed please find $1.50 for which please send the Relief Society Magazine for one year, begimmimg with o. Oo ccc cee cece cece cee ceneneneeneeenececeneeeeeanaeereneeenenned ent cnnee-esamneserronnsereseenceeeeanensssenesereencecseseeeces Docenenennn(Name) a ca sceaceucacceveveesnsevoncoeernneresrens (Street and number) aE Le seennscevensenzansensnscnvenssnscnsonsencensserntt(City and State) (Ward or Branch) Owen ever ccccnscencnces cess ecacss essen censews cesses sesecenccen cons eesensssceccsesuacoooserassasconssasensanesensassseasee enw eee nn cen nen ccs nc enssce sarees eee es cme ee cneeeer cess nsenes sen nccccasowce cs naeses sacesaencescenevessanasecesessonnessee Joanna Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER 3 Synopsis: Joanna, who had married David Niels against the wishes of her family, is left a widow with four children to Support and care for, Courageously, she takes inventory of her resources—a home, poorly furnished and not paid for, and $1.19 in cash. A neighbor gives her a sack of navy beans and Joanna decides to make Boston-baked beans