itted by Ilene Webb WEST UTAH STAKE, RIVERGROVE WARD HANDWORK EXHIBITS AT SUCCESSFUL BAZAAR Standing, left to right: First Counselor Lela Roper; President Ilene Webb; Secretary-Treasurer Fern Briggs; Second Counselor Edna Johnson. The photograph shows only part of the many excellent displays at this bazaar. The quilts were unusually beautiful and well-made and the hand embroidery and crocheted articles provided a wide selection of Christmas gifts. The proceeds from the bazaar will be used to provide furnishings for the Relief Society room in the new chapel, when the building is completed. 208 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 oO" yyy Photograph submitted by Mary Stewart AUSTRALIAN MISSION, BANKSTOWN BRANCH BAZAAR October 30, 1948 Left to right: Second Counselor Helen C. Harker; President Mary Stewart; Secretary-Treasurer Marjorie Livingston; First Counselor Eva Orrock. The photograph shows only one of the many attractive and beautifully arranged booths of this bazaar. Other displays included novelties, toys, sweets, cakes, flowers, vegetables, and refreshment stalls where salads, ice cream, and other treats were served. Blanche K. Richmond is president of the Australian Mission Relief Society. Wee $;. A y &s 4 / > te 6 ket < BBE pen vnce are ects Photograph submitted by Anona C. Heaps ST. JOHNS STAKE (ARIZONA), ST. JOHNS WARD BAZAAR Spring 1948 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 209 Left to right: Second Counselor Verniece Wilkins; President Etta Heaps; First Counselor Ellen Davis; Secretary-Treasurer Ethel Mangum. Unusually beautiful crochet and embroidery work was displayed and sold at this bazaar, as well as aprons, children's clothing, and large, well-made quilts. Other activities of this ward included an entertainment called "Around the World Trip" in which a different country was represented in the different homes in the ward and food characteristic of the country was served. The sisters also held pie and ice cream sales and sold box lunches at dances. | Anona C. Heaps is president of St. Johns Stake Relief Society. The Spirit of the Gospel, the Soul of Relief Society | (Continued from page 150) the kingdom of God. President George Albert Smith is God's chosen prophet on earth today. Relief Society was organized according to the law of heaven. It has a work to do in the building of God's kingdom on earth. May we, the sisters of Relief Society today, so live that we may do our part nobly and well is my earnest prayer, and I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. Miracle Gene Romolo They who see the ebon robe of night Change to tenuous draperies of gray, And eastern hill-crests come alive with light To strew gold petals of another day, Behold a miracle. Spring Candlelight Thelma Ireland Crocuses peak through the snow Unharmed by winter's sting. They look like flaming candles Lighted by an early spring. 210 SELECT MUSIC NOW FOR YOUR Faster Program Ladies' Three Part Selections 9033 An Easter Message—Hambhe ee.20 9064 Christ Went Up Into the Hills —Hageman 6 2803 Christ the Lord Is Risen Today—Worthing 10 89081 Easter Dawn—Flagler iB 103 Easter Parade—Berlin __._.20 9023 Empty Tomb—Hamblen.20 6077 Hail the King—Patterson 2 7394 King of Kings—Simper _ 12 Our Christ Has Risen—ConWO? 26 eee.20 6387 Open the Gates of the Temple—Knapp ow..20 9646 There Is a Green Hill Far. Away—Gounod _ 18 EASTER CANTATAS, SSA Memories of Easter Morn—Lorenz...75 Thorn Crowned King—Holton._ Ja Easter Angels—Fearis as Eastertide—Protheroe wwe PS We specialize in music for L. D. S. Choral groups of all types. Write for information. Music sent on approval. Mail orders filled promptly. We also have a complete stock of popular, sacred, and classical music for home and school. Representatives for Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, records, and musicians supplies. D FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY 45-47 SOUTH; a MAIN STREET A SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 The House of Leaves (Continued from page 163) to remind himself that neither Dad not Mother Henderson was aged or bedridden, that they were financially able to pay for the work they had come to think of as Anne's duty. If they should get sick, he and Anne would be close by—as also would be Josie, he thought savagely. - Coldly, he told himself, it was now or never. If they beat Anne down this time, she would never again have the courage to try while Dad and Mother lived. He could go on adding ten, fifteen, perhaps even twenty years to the five already gone by. Years of going back to lonely nights at Mrs. Nelson's where he'd roomed since his parents' death, of restaurant food ordered from a card and eaten alone; bleak, uneventful years, waiting, waiting and never arriving.. He smiled wryly. Jacob served seven years for Rachel, then seven more. But not he. He got up, put his chair carefully back into place, addressing himself to Anne. "Let me know, Anne, what you decide. Anderson has another buyer for that lot. He's holding it for me until tomorrow morning." Then, he turned to the others. "This whole town has been brought up on the Ellen and John tradition. Ever since I can remember, I've heard what a fine daughter she has proved herself, how loyal to her parents she has been, refusing to leave them and all that. And John! He's been an example of patience and steadfast love toward the girl of his choice. Well, mine is a different idea. Ellen didn't love John enough. If she had, she wouldn't have been THE HOUSE OF LEAVES willing to sacrifice him to her parents as she did." Mark's lips felt dry. He moistened them with the tip of his tongue before continuing. "T think she was just a plain coward," he said. The silence in the room was almost audible. Josie's face was an angry red, her parents' both held shocked bewilderment. He dare not look at Anne. All the coldness of a surgeon's knife was in his voice as he went on. "Now, I'm asking what kind of parents would expect or accept such a sacrifice? The animals, the birds, do better. They prepare their young for life, then turn them loose." OSIE laughed, an_ unpleasant sound. She stood up, and smoothed down her skirt decisively. "He's insulted you, Anne. Are you letting him insult Dad and Mother, too?" Mark turned his head to look at Anne, then. The sunlight had gone from the window. Her face looked drawn and dull against the fading light, her eyes were turned away. Probably, he'd gone too far, probably she'd never forgive him, he thought. But he had to finish. It was important that he finish. "John Barclay was my boyhood hero. I wanted to be just like him. But that was then, not now. Now, I want to have a wife and home while we're young enough for us to enjoy each other. I want us to have our own children, not wait until we're so old we have to adopt 7 S other people's. He buttoned his coat and reached for his hat, smoothing down his short, black hair. "You've had your chance at life," he said plead- 211 AS — ASIN G Guarant SEARS ae Money Back" You can't lose at Sears! In the first place all Sears merchandise is first quality tested in our laboratory, specified at the factory, then field tested under actual '"'in-use"' conditions. Nothing human is infallible. So, just on the long chance that some time something might slip through, we say to you in all sincerity and good faith: "If anything you ever get from Sears doesn't make good—SEARS 252 SEARS GARDEN SUCCESS Salt Lake City Is Assured with Dial 5-6651 P.-W.'s Mountain Grown PARK FREE SEEDS, SHRUBS, TREES THE LARGEST AND MOST COMPLETE - ASSORTMENT IN THE WEST Get Free Catalog Ready in Early February It's brimful of just the information desired by every Planter. A post card request will bring it to you. PORTER-WALTON (CO. P. O. BOX 1619 SALT LAKE CITY 11, UTAH ani2 The NEW MODEL- 21 WURLITZER ORGAN AVAILABLE NOW The prestige of the WURLITZER ORGAN will be greatly enhanced by the addition of this new model to the Wurlitzer line. @ FAST ACTION @® TRUE CHURCH TONE @ AMERICAN GUILD OF ORGANISTS SPECIFICATIONS @ SLIGHT ADDITIONAL COST @®@eeeeeeeeeed For Complete Information Write @ MR. SELDON N. HEAPS r) SUMMERHAYS MUSIC (0. © 17 W. First So. Salt Lake City, Ut. @ @©e@eeoeoeee ee @ =o D0 DO CO OCD ort Do OE The Same Personal Service to All Regardless of Lost The cost is a matter of your own desire. "Know Your Utahns" Listen to Golden Memories every Sunday 9:45 a. M. On Station KDYL. And read about them in Sunday Deseret News. Joseph Wm. Taylor Memorial Mortuary Marguerite Taylor Beck Charles Asher Beck 125 No. Main Salt Lake City RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 ingly, "all three of you. Let Anne and me have ours." He opened the door and turned back to look at Anne. She seemed not to have stirred. "Let me know, Anne," he said, and went out, off the porch and down the walk, hearing Josie's laugh, loud and confident. Well, he'd done what he could, he'd said what he had to. And now—? He stood for a moment looking about him in a dazed fashion. Josie's high, light voice was going on intermittently, but he could distinguish no words. He kicked aimlessly at the fallen leaves and laughed wryly, remembering the house of leaves that he and Anne had built. And who, he asked himself, had been the big, bad wolf who'd puffed and huffed, and huffed and puffed until the house was down before ever it was built. He'd insulted Anne, called her a coward who'd rather sacrifice him than stand up against her family. Worse, he'd insulted her parents. And that would be harder for Anne to forgive than the other. He moved to the curb, fingering the key in his pocket absently. Was it only an hour ago that he and Anne were planning so confidently? Already, the picture of what it meant was fading into the oblivion of lost things—Anne, marriage, children— but at first, only the two of them alone. A gust of wind struck him. He shivered. Cold for October, he thought. Summer was ended, as all bright things end. He looked back toward the house, at the cold, final stare of the windows, the closed door; gave a furious kick at his front tire and climbed into the car. THE HOUSE OF LEAVES He ground on the starter, waiting for the hum of the motor. His hand was on the brake when he heard her voice, "Mark, Mark," followed by a commanding, "Anne, come back here." Josie was on the porch and Anne was flying down the walk, her auburn hair tumbling in the wind. "Wait, Mark, wait!" | He opened the door and she slipped quickly in beside him. "Drive on," she said, "back to our leaf house, Mark, won't you?" They parked the car and walked through the dusk to where the leaf house lay, its trim lines somewhat windblown, but still intact. "Tt isn't really blown away. See?" he gestured. "I was afraid." Anne shook her head, her lips trembling. Mark reached penitent arms toward her. "Can you forgive me, Anne?" She drew away from him, self-accusingly. "But you were right. I am a coward, I've always been one. Afraid of Josie, afraid of not measuring up to Ellen Carson, afraid of hurting Mother and Dad. But not afraid of hurting you, Mark. Oh, no, you were patient, you'd stand for it." She pulled away sharply. "I should think you'd hate me." He looked down at the small face with its wide, gray eyes, and tenderly pushed back a lock of bright hair from her forehead. "Hate you, sweet?" he asked wonderingly. "How could I''? Suddenly, she was in his arms again, and he was speaking words in her ear. He had said them many times in the five years, but tonight there was a new assurance in them, a new conviction. This time, he 213 (SEREBSRBSRERB SEE RBERR RBBB RBERE BREUER Professional anel Social Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah SERB EBEEBRSRE RBS ERE RER RRB Heeee| ss! Exulted, this time it will be, knowing, at last, beyond all certainty that there were things—blessed things which might be even better for the waiting. A camel Compromise (Continued from page 154) moment she watched, confused and uncertain, and then her mother's words came back to her, "They don't have the same ideologies—we've got to make them like us—we've got to go halfway." Connie walked thoughtfully down the hall. At the door she paused and looked back at the gaily lighted room. Quietly she opened the door and ran out into the spring night where her friends were waiting for her. 214 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 Joanna (Continued from page 199) testimony " The words slipped out, crippled and blurred by the paralysis of her tongue and throat " [Dknow that God lives and that he hears and answers prayers. I was alone and afraid and he comforted me. I had no place to tun " Suddenly the fear went away in the terrible need to explain the miracle. "He brought a way of making a living to my very door If I." She stood straight and tall. "If I were to serve him all the days of my life, I could not repay in any way all that he has done for me and my family." She looked into the upturned faces. "T had to tell you. I know that he lives and that his kindness is beyond our understanding." She sat down. David and Sally stared at her through round, awed eyes, but Penny put Michael on the other side of her and sat close against her mother. She put her head on. Joanna's shoulder. "You were so beautiful, Mommy. So beautiful." Joanna caught Penny's hand in her own, her heart too full for speech. (To be continued) We Are 5o Busy (Continued from page 180) He greeted me in his friendly way, and I asked him about his wife. A shadow crossed his face and he looked suddenly tired and old. "Lucille went home on Monday," he said. "Her mother had an emergency operation and isn't expected to live. I hated to have her go alone. School will be out Friday. I could have gone with her then. But of course she had to go. Going in a plane isn't difficult and someone will meet her, but it is the first trip she's taken alone since— you see Lucille is blind." "Blind?" I gasped in astonishment. "But—but, I didn't dream it," I stumbled. "She doesn't look blind. She doesn't seem blind." "No, you can't tell it by her eyes, and she has a lot of pride and tries to be independent. But sometimes she gets so lonesome and it's difficult. She led such an active life before. I didn't dare ask him what had happened and he didn't say. How long I sat in the gathering darkness miserable and dumbfounded I don't know. I could understand now why she used to sit without doing anything day after day; why she hadn't come to club to learn stencil painting; why she hadn't waved to me. How many lonely hours I might have saved her if I had known, but it was too late now she had gone home. If I had just found time to have gone to the organ recital with her I would have known, but we are always so busy, so very, very busy. Auerbach's Makes It Easy For You To Knit Yourself A Dress Knitting is an easy and fascinating hobby. Auerbach's gives FREE knitting lessons with all yarn purchased. E Minerva Yarns: x MONTEREY, all wool knubby-yarn noone-80c ounce VELVEEN, 71% wool, 29% rayon, shiny rayon thread 80¢ ounce @ Cost of handknit dress pictured..$21 Minerva pattern book containing a marvelous collection of dress patArt NEEDLEWORK AUERBACH'S FOURTH FLOOR Auerbach's, State and Broadway Salt Lake City, Utah Please send me ---.----- copies of the Minerva Pattern book..25c. Please send me ounces of Minerva Velveen or Monterey Yarn. Color 020..2.2.2000c00 NOM ~..00.. Ee ee ne eee eece ce cee eee eecceeeceeneecencecnecececesseneeeesa= sesteeeee CL ee City GMMR! _ 2..-nnneennn----cennnneee-scceeenerecerescceerer-cceeneeceerececeseerceese Please add 25 cents to cover mailing and insurance. Utahns, please add 2% sales tax. From Tear and Sar Blanche Sutherland, Pasadena, California, author of "House of Leaves," is a busy young mother who has this to say of herself: "I have been writing for publication for about ten years, but long before 'that I served my apprenticeship in writing stories and plays for my Sunday School boys and girls. I have had many poems and several stories published, and two comedies and one serious play of mine have been produced by adult groups. My most serious difficulty is in finding time to write." « Sylvia Probst Young, author of "We - Are So Busy," loves to write. She says: 'Ever since I went to the ele- 'mentary school back home in Midway- (Wasatch County, Utah), a pencil has been my favorite tool. It has been a real thrill to have my poetry published in the Church magazines and the local papers. Especially 1 was thrilled to have poems in Utah Sings, in the Relief Society Anthology, and in a national anthology. This story, however, is my biggest thrill— -my first adult story. Before my marriage I taught school and was a missionary in California. My life at present is so woven around domesticity I get little time for anything else. Our family is quite a gane—my husband, a sister, and three very busy little boys. But the writing urge persists and whenever possible I'm at the typewriter." Mrs. Young lives in Midvale, Utah. "T'd just like to mention that I think the poem "January Snow" (1949) by Eva Willes Wangsgaard is one of the most beautiful I have ever read. Thanks for the many moments of pleasure and profit I have had reading your Magazine. _—Josephine Pruett, Winslow, Arizona -May I say how gratified I was with the appearance of my story "Sudden Storm" (September 1948), and how very much I enjoyed and appreciated Mabel Jones Gabbott's beautiful poem "Between Friends," which appeared at the end of my story. I shall always thank The Relief Society Magazine for giving me the encouragement necessary to continue with this "harmless pastime." —Carol Read Flake, Boise, Idaho Page 216 I appreciate having The Relief Society Magazine every month. I pass it on to the Relief Society president who in tum gives it to the investigators. I have heard many of the ladies express their thoughts on the fine material which the Magazine contains. We can give out a Relief Society Magazine where we wouldn't be able to pass out a tract. The material published in the Magazine helps to attract women to Mormonism. May the Lord continue to bless you in your efforts. —