THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Leone G. Layton Mary J. Wilson Josie B. Bay Mary G. Judd Blanche B. Stoddard Lillie C. Adams Alta J. Vance Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Ethel C. Smith Christine H. Robinson Edith S. Elliott Leone O. Jacobs Louise W. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 36 MARCH 1949 No. 3 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES The Spirit of the Gospel, the Soul of Relief Society by President Belle S. Spafford 148 Relief Society Building News 155 The Song of the Lark by Ivy Williams Stone 156 A Young Mother Discovers Relief Society by Margaret F. Richards 164 Hawaii and the Latter-day Saints by Rosannah Cannon Irvine 166 Clean-up and Beautification Program by James M. Kirkham 171FICTIONCompromise—Third Prize Story by Mildred R. Stutz 151 The House of Leaves by Blanche Sutherland 160 We Are So Busy by Sylvia Probst Young 178 Joanna—Chapter 3 by Margery S. Stewart 196GENERAL FEATURESSixty Years Ago 172 Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 173 Editorial: Full Measure, Running Over by Marianne C. Sharp 174 Notes to the Field: The Importance of the Visiting Teachers Message 175 Organizations and Reorganizations of Mission and Stake Relief Societies 175 Special Short Story Issue Planned for April 177 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Socials, Bazaars, and Other Activities by General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 200 From Near and Far 216FEATURES FOR THE HOMETake Care of Your Books by Ezra J. Poulsen 181 How to Make a Pleated Skirt by Lena DuPaix 184 They Are Not Mine by Caroline Eyring Miner 185 How to Make an Embroidery Floss Case by Afton N. Porter 186 That's My Target! by Ivie H. Jones 187 Antiques to Know and Cherish by Lorene Pearson 188 Cakes Decorated and Designed at Home by Eva Willes Wangsgaard 192POETRYI Have Seen Aspens—Frontispiece by Alice Morrey Bailey 147 This of Destiny by Elizabeth Terry Blair 159 Sky Writing by Marvin Jones 177 Longing by Susa Gould Walker 177 I Have No Need by Grace Zenor Pratt 183 Compensation by Jessie M. Robinson 185 Art Teacher by C. Cameron Johns 187 Cotton Storm by Leone E. McCune 191 Overtone by Dorothy J. Roberts 191 My Wish by Gene Romolo 209 Spring Candlelight by Thelma Ireland 209

---

of the gospel, obedience to its teachings, a willingness to keep the commandments of God on the part of Relief Society women are prerequisites to their well-being as individuals and to the well-being of Relief Society as an organization. The Second Epistle of John, addressed to a woman, "unto the elect lady," may appropriately be addressed to Relief Society women today: Grace be with you, mercy, and peace, from God the Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love.... And now I beseech thee, lady, not as though I wrote a new commandment unto thee, but that which RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1949 we had from the beginning, that we love one another. And this is love, that we walk after his commandments. This is the commandment, That, as ye have heard from the beginning, ye should walk in it.... Look to yourselves, that we lose not those things which we have wrought, but that we receive a full reward (Second Epistle of John, verses 3, 5, 6, and 8). In the gospel of St. John we read this message of the Master to his children: If ye love me, keep my commandments. He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him. If a man love me, he will keep my words: and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode with him (John 14:15, 21, 23). The Lord will come unto Relief Society; he will make his abode with us, and the blessings of heaven will rest upon our beloved society so that it will continue to move forward in a glorious manner if we who make up its membership will but love the Lord and keep his commandments. Our work will be accomplished with a glad heart and a cheerful countenance and we as individuals will receive the rewards of righteousness— even peace in this world and eternal life in the world to come. I know that this gospel is true. This testimony sweeps over me at times with an almost startling reality. There is a Father to whom we may go in prayer and find comfort and sustenance, inspiration, and guidance. Joseph Smith was a Prophet of God, chosen to bring to earth in this dispensation the gospel of Christ, the only plan by which we may live and gain exaltation in (Continued on page 209) Third Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Compromise Mildred R. Stutz MURIEL watched her daughter Connie walk up the path toward the front door. Her books were tucked under her arm, her saddle Oxfords scuffed the wet pavement slightly. Her blonde head was stiffly erect and she gave no indication that she was aware of the girls walking down the sidewalk behind her. Muriel sighed and turned from the rain-drenched window. There was no sense in letting Connie know that her lonesomeness was not a secret. The door opened and Connie came in. "Hello, Mother," she said, "mmmmm, something smells good—baked ham?" "Yes, orders from the boss. Is it still raining?" "Cats and dogs," Connie answered. She tossed her books on a chair and walked into the dining room with her mother. The table was set for twelve. Gleaming linen, silver, and crystal were accentuated by a centerpiece of early