[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | October | Issue: 10 | Title: BEAUTIFUL ENGLISH HOMES. | Author: Unknown]

BEAUTIFUL ENGLISH HOMES.
	For many a day to come interesting
events in connection with the International
Congress of Women convened in London,
will be recurring to the mind, furnishing
topics for conversation and data for innum-
erable letters and papers.
	The reception given to delegates and
speakers by the Queen, overshadows in
importance, perhaps, all others of a like
nature tendered by “Old England” through
her most hospitable subjects. Certain it is,
nothing was omitted which could conduce
to the comfort and pleasure of her guests.
There are, however, individual experiences
of English hospitality which surpass all
that can be met with in attendance at pub-
lic functions, even though they be tend-
ered by high functionaries or the nobility
itself. A glimpse of ideal English life is
never afforded the tourist as such, and only
an exceptional opportunity makes it possible
for a stranger to come in touch with that
amiable class which is not of the mass, nor
yet of the nobility, but whose culture places
them so distinctly from the former and
superior to the latter, that it makes an
indelible impression on the mind, of an
American; not because America does not
produce this class, but because it empha-
sizes the fact that in every civilized nation
this class arises under every form of
government, but is large or small according
to the number and varieties of opportunities,
which reflects the advantage or disadvan-
tage of any form of government. 
	With this class of our English cousins,
there is neither ostentation nor gilded
misery, but that conservatism which creates
for themselves a world into which a self-
made man or woman, worthy achieve-
ments may enter, or through whose portals
acceptable members of the nobility may
glide, and yet all known to the world at
large only by impress made upon the pub-
lic welfare.
	The International Congress of women
afforded the opportunity in many cases to
observe this side of English life. Particu-
larly fortunate was the woman who fell to
the lot of Mrs. Sam Garrett. It was not
altogether a matter of chance either, for
Mrs. Garrett agreed to entertain a guest if
she could choose the nationality, and even
America may feel proud that she was her
choice. Fortunate indeed was Mrs. Gar-
rett’s guest.
	Mr. Sam Garrett, Fellow of Peter
House College, is a member of the incor-
porated Law Society and Law Club, and
Senior partner of the leading law firm in
London. Every one knows what that
means, and Mr. Garrett is all that one
would expect to find in a man of his posi-
tion. Mrs. Garrett is a superb example
of the type of English woman immortal-
zed by writers of prose and poetry. By
the merry twinkle in the eyes of both hus
band and wife, one is at a loss to discover
which bears the stamp of reflection and
comes to the conclusion that it is the com-
plement of each other. 
	This delightful couple have five sons:


[Column 1]
Douglas, Harry, (who is a skilled cricketer)
Ronald, Brian and dear little Jeffry. There
is one daughter with an impressive counte-
nonce, and fair Marjory just blossoming into
young womanhood. This charming girl, 
bubbling over with enthusiasm, artless
and guileless, was indeed refreshing to be-
hold and one could not help but feel re-
gret that custom makes the American child
so different. It is true we would not ex-
change our American girl after she has
entered her teens, for the girl of any
nationality on earth but the ingenuous-
ness which prompted Marjory’s answer.
“I am going to be a mother,” when asked
what she desired to be when she “grew
up,” is rare—all too rare—in American
children. Marjory’s response involves
more than individual sentiments; it exem-
plifies the fact that the home is recognized
not only as the basis of society, but that it
is the ideal of English life and womanhood.
In their homes the care and worriment of
business is not carried; the appointments
are conducive to “solid comfort:” the
service is skilled; literature and art commin-
gle, while refinement and joyousness per-
vade the atmosphere, rendering a happy
freedom amid the old world convention-
alities.
	To describe Mrs. Garrett’s home in de-
tail would seem sacrilege. Those who
are familiar with the English home will
appreciate this glimpse; those who are not
must rest content till an opportunity is
afforded them to learn for themselves, but
must rest content in the belief that there
are hosts of other homes counterparts of
this one, several of which are mentioned
below, and to which Mrs. Garrett escorted
her guest, who was an invited speaker to
the Congress, and thus escaped the duties
devolving upon a delegate and was left
free to attend public functions or obtain a
glimpse of English home and social life. It
is needless to say the latter was chosen in 
almost every instance with the exception of
the receptions given by Her Majesty, the
Queen; that of Lady Aberdeen, at the In-
stitute of Water Colors; that of Lady War-
wick, and that of the Pioneer Club. As an
escort this English hostess proved so wise
and agreeable that her guest was quite
willing to say, when asked her approval of
plans for her entertainment and pleasure,
“Whither thou goest, I will go,” then it 
was that the first glimpse of a semi-public
social nature was received at the Pioneer
Club.
	This is the leading club for women
in London. It has a capacious mansion
in Grafton Street for its home. Its draw-
ing room, library, music room, refectory
and, last, but not least, its smoking-rooms
are all suitably equipped. The program was
admirable and the occasion enjoyable. Many
American women added interest to the
entertainment. The following were
among the notable English women: Miss
Lilly Hanbury, Lady Elizabeth Cust, Miss
Chapman, (a well-known writer) Mrs. Sib-
thorpe, (editor of Shafts) Dr. Helen Webb,
Madame Sterling, Miss Pendlington, Miss
Query, Miss Pelham and the Hon. Marie
Davis.
	As the days slipped by, the reception
given by the Pioneer Club was followed by
“At Homes” at the following: Mr. and 
Mrs. Henry Fawcett, authors of the well
known book on “Political Economy,” both
L. L. D’s of note. Mrs. Fawcett was as-
sisted by Miss Agnes Garrett and Miss
Fawcett. Another “At Home” was given

[Column 2]
by Mrs. Q. MacDonnell, niece to Mary
Howit, where we had the pleasure of meet-
ing Lady Hamilton, Sir Joshua and Lady
Fitch, Sir Robert Hunter and wife and
many other distinguished people.
	One pleasant afternoon was spent at the
garden party given by Mrs. Waller and her
husband, Dr. Waller, a celebrated physician,
who, after feasting our eyes and ears upon
the varied entertainment and a stroll about
the beautiful grounds, accorded us the hon-
or of a glimpse into his laboratory.
	The “At Home” of Mrs. Garrett-Ander-
son, that beloved philanthropist and physi-
cian of note, was made particularly inter-
esting by the presence of Rev. Dr. Howis
and daughter, Mrs. Charlick, Mrs. Mar-
shall, M. D., and Mrs. Ayrton, the only 
woman who has read a paper before the
Royal Society.
	So much for London homes; but that
was not enough. A glimpse was afforded
of the country home at Weybridge of Mr.
Charles Swinfern Eady, Q. C., and Mrs.
Eady. Mr. Eady was one of three men-
tioned for judge, and as he seemed to be
the choice, he has, no, doubt, by this time
ascended to that exalted position. Mr.
Eady’s home was once that of the Duke of
York, and its glories are commensurate to
the requirements of such a personage. Its
oaks and beaches are among the glories of
“Old Eagland.” There is one great beach
tree whose trunk to be encircled requires 
the clasped hands of three adults. The outer
branches touch the ground and form shelter
for many rustic seats beneath their mighty 
shade. The house is not the original one,
but built in Italian style, after the house of
Paura. Its spacious courts with chambers
spreading in all directions; adorned with
paintings and bric-a-brac supplements the
appointments requisite to this house of
wealth and culture. Mr. Eady takes much 
pride in his fruiteries, and well he may.
The great vines under cover laden with
nectarines, peaches, muscots, hamburgs or
figs, as the case may be, are all evidences
of the luxury in this beautiful home. This
gentleman affable and entertaining, was 
the architect of these fruiteries. This hap-
py home is presided over by Mrs. Eady, a
charming young wife, hospitable and cor-
dial, who has graced the home with a
daughter, now four years of age and the
embodiment of daintiness, little Miss Dora-
thy.
	In all the round of pleasure the inner 
man was not neglected, though little need
be said on that score, for everyone who
knows anything of English life, knows
that eating and tea drinking is never
scorned.
	Between times places of interest were
visited that need not be enumerated here,
excepting to say that Hyde Park was seen 
in all its natural and fashionable glory, and
as the season had not yet ended, it was a 
sight never to be forgotten.
	There are other phases of London life—
some to be deplored, some to be pitied,
some to be scorned and some to be con-
demned—but nothing can efface the mem-
ory of the ideal English home.
