Our Indian Cousins C. L. Christensen
======================================================================

Our Indian Cousins. C. L. Christensen. (Concluded from last month.) THE NAVAJO INDIAN. In talking with the Navajos on religion, we find that they believe there are three great personages who created and organized this earth. One who created all the animals except the mule, and that was the white man's invention. After they had created the earth they found that the heavens and earth were so close together that man could not walk erect, so they commanded the heavens to go up, and placed the rainbow to designate the distance between the heaven and the earth. Then man was created and placed in a beautiful garden, and also in some mysterious way a woman was created. They told the man that man's time was not God's time, and that he must arrange his own time according to an earthly calendar. These parents had many children, and finally the Great Son was born to them, and they had high hopes for him. He had great power from on high. He controlled lightnings and elements, and he slew his brother. He became the father of lies, war, bloodshed and contention. The first man and the first woman discovered that they had done something wrong when they found they were naked. They had only squirrel skins to cover their nakedness. The woman was influenced by a serpent, so that she brought forth good and bad children, and the Indians believe in that to this day. They wear their breech-clouts in memory of the temptation of their first parents. After this the children multiplied excessively upon the earth. The wicked were about to overcome the good and the Creator sent a flood upon the earth; He showed them a very high mountain and all who wished might go up and be saved; however, only few of them went. The animals went up in pairs. All of them took heed with the exception of the turkey gobbler who stood stuttering and gobbling, but the Lord needed him so He sent a wave of the sea which took him up to the top of the mountain leaving a white foam around the feathers of his tail and he is called the "incline bird" and the "sign of the flood," because of his stupidity. Scraps only of the history is left in the world; much has been lost. The Navajos believe that their great forefathers came from beyond the great waters, in great vessels which were stolen from OUR INDIAN COUSINS. 83 them by cunning men who made others like them and then departed out over the water with hosts of their people, and nothing has been heard from them since. In memory of their first father, all Navajo chiefs are called "Totosones from beyond the Great Waters," no matter what their names had been before. This first father had four sons. The oldest son tampered with the rainbow, shot an arrow into the air defying the powers of the Creator, thereby cutting off all communication between heaven and earth and putting the people in a humble, downcast attitude. The youngest son was called "The Fox," indicating that he was shrewd, wise and cunning; he took the records and their wisdom from them and departed out of the land. After this there were wars and great calamities in the land for hundreds of years. The Indians believe that their only hope of regaining their power lies in the good news that a boy had in some mysterious way dropped from heaven. He was given to a very wise and beautiful woman to raise. She reared him successfully, although all nations gathered for his destruction. She often had to hide him under the hearth-stone, or again, to wrap him in a blanket and, in a flash, flee to other parts for her preservation. He finally became a man with much power and good influence. He healed the sick and settled the difficulties of his people, whereupon they rejoiced. He said he was one who assisted in the creation of the earth. This brought the disfavor of the people and they would not have him in their midst any longer. They gambled with him for the earth, and through treachery they received it for an everlasting inheritance. He became angry at them, confounded their languages and divided them up into different tribes, which are now extant upon the land. He then got on a streak of lightning and went up into the air and was seen no more. The people discovered their mistake and mourned exceedingly over it, bowing their heads in "The Valley of Supplication" (Nah ho Ko Ki). He inclined his ear and answered them saying, "I have left twelve in my stead and when they are united together they have the same power that I manifested unto you." Then, for a number of years, they had a time of rejoicing; things were pleasant and the earth was beautiful to dwell upon. Finally the people became wicked and the Twelve departed out of the land, three going east, three west, three north and three south, taking all their blessings and promises from the people. Then followed calamities and earthquakes, thunder and lightnings. Many cities were sunk in the depths of the earth and great waters came up in places where there were none before. The rivers changed their courses, and total darkness prevailed upon the earth for a time. Fire came down from heaven and consumed many people, especially the Mound-builders. There were only 84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. two of them left: male and female. They were a white people, said by them to be the protectors of the Albinos, who were a white people. They had many difficulties after these calamities, famine, pestilence and still wars. They were scattered and driven to every land. They inquired what had become of the woman who had reared the "wonderful boy" and they found that she was called "Es tun Et lah," the woman who reunites the spirit and the body, or Resurrection. For her conduct she was given a city with twelve pearly gates, and it was taken off from where the Gulf of Mexico now stands, and detached from the land and was placed off in the Pacific Ocean somewhere. Death is called "going over." You have to pass through a twelve-mile canyon, very narrow and crooked, in which you have to remain a thousand years. Possibly the years will kill the horrors of the place. But warriors take their weapons of war with them so they may be successful in getting through to the "happy hunting ground." The young man who wishes to obtain a wife negotiates with the uncle, the mother's brother. He usually has to pay ten or fifteen head of horses for the girl, according to her beauty and ability as a blanket-maker and usefulness as a housekeeper. If the young lady agrees to the arrangement, she sends back half as much property of her own to him. They are then engaged. The woman is held in more esteem and considered more valuable than the man. After this arrangement they prepare a nice house to dwell in and the medicine men come in and dedicate the house, pronouncing a blessing on it. They take the young lady in and hide her in the north side of the house, under some blankets. The young man comes. They ask him what he wishes, and he replies, "a wife." They strike him. To have a wife is the grandest blessing and privilege a man can have. They ask him if he will sustain, support, feed and fight for her, if necessary; to which he agrees. The woman is then brought forward and they partake of a whole meal proffered by one of the medicine men. The mother-in-law then brings out a beautiful belt, which is girded about his loins as a certificate of marriage. They then agree that if ever any separation should occur she shall take all the children, all the property and cut the belt in two, each taking half. The mother-in-law then departs. It is considered unholy for them to behold each other's face again. Here is a story told in connection with this, something like the laws of Moses in the Bible: The dedicators say of the marriage home before dismissing the young people, that the young people agree that if any unclean thing enters the house (meaning death or contagious diseases from the destroying angel), they will cause the house to be burned down and everything cremated, including the bed. OUR INDIAN COUSINS. 85 MARRIAGE AND BURIALS OF THE MOQUIS. The young man announces to the village that he is going to marry a girl. He defies all the people to break them up, if they can, considering the girl of no use if influence can be brought to bear to separate them. He raises a crop of cotton during the summer and they usually marry in the fall. A great preparation is made during the day, the young girls in particular grinding the corn. They take corn in their mouths, chew it and spit it into a vessel; this is put into a pudding and it is considered a favor to do this for the young couple for them to partake of it. Two great white robes are made from the cotton he has raised in the summer, and after the day's festivities they go into a room and wash each other and pronounce each other clean. Then they slip into the robes. These robes are afterwards laid away until death, when the two are buried in them. At death they wall these robes up around the bodies like a well, and a large stone is put on top of the well, which in turn is topped by a stick from which flutters a white flag. Corn, meat and other eatables are placed over the grave for a number of days. Young people and unmarried people are buried in the crevices of rocks; they are rolled in a blanket, and the women do all the burying. There are no attendants except the four women who dispose of the dead. NAVAJO HISTORIES. After several days' visit among the Moquis, Brother Hatch, Brother Wakefield and myself went to the Navajos. We found that they had thirty-six historians, divided into quorums of twelve each. The first twelve are the custodians of the language and customs handed down from their fathers. They have not commenced their record and they calculate the time by the calamities and earthquakes. Any new thing that comes into their country is given a name, and it is always referred to the authority of the first Twelve. The second Twelve are botanists or medicine men and are experts in medicines, herbs and other medical things. The third Twelve are astronomers and keep track of the time and the seasons. They have their equinoctial day, the same as we have. One might spend a month or more studying either of these subdivisions and then would not learn all they know and pass upon. In the ancient time, when they lived according to their own laws and were not interfered with by the government, adultery was punished for the man by death. The woman was allowed to live but her ears were split, that they might know she was a fallen woman. Fornication was forgiven by paying a ransom for 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. the unfortunate girl. If one killed another accidentally or otherwise he fled to the refuge city, and if the pursuers didn't overtake him his friends had an opportunity to settle the matter and the offender would be allowed to return to his people by paying a big ransom. We spent the balance of the year 1876 building forts and dams, and in general improvements. The Apaches were very bad that season and we stood guard all night, and the animals had to be guarded. Scores of men were killed by the Apaches while carrying the mail from Santa Fe to Prescott. The roads were dotted with graves every few miles along the Sunset mail route. A small, lively and interesting Dutchman, a mail driver, passed through our town one noon. The brethren cautioned him of the danger. He had an old gun and four or five cartridges and thought he was able to defend himself, but when he had gone twelve miles on his journey he was killed, without a chance to use his wonderful weapon. It was impossible to get mail carriers to undertake the journey unless it was some unfortunate foreigner who did not sense the danger. There were several teams and buckboards lost in the crossing to the Little Colorado, as it was a perfect sand-bed over a treacherous stream. The team would drown and the man narrowly escape with his life. The people built four forts: Brigham City, named after Apostle Young; and Sunset, on the east side of the river, where Lot Smith presided. Twenty-five miles up the river was St. Joseph. On the south side of the river was Obed, presided over by Bishop George Lake. The fort was built entirely of rock, even to the roofing which was made by long, thin slabs of rock almost twelve feet long, as the country abounded in this kind of stone. This latter place was abandoned because of its swampy and unhealthy condition. Thousands of dollars' worth of dams were constructed in the river, which were torn out and destroyed by the overflow and heavy floods caused by the immense drainage of that river. In the spring of 1877, I went to St. George to the dedication of the temple, and on the 9th of April I was called and set apart by President Brigham Young, John W. Young and Charles C. Rich to act as an Indian missionary. President Young instructed me to learn the Navajo language thoroughly, "for," said he, "our older brethren have had to learn to talk a good many pieces of languages of other Indian tribes and failed to become thorough in any one language. If you can learn anything more, study Spanish, for that will be the most profitable language for young men who go South." After doing some temple work, I returned home to Arizona, OUR INDIAN COUSINS. 87 and in June Jacob Hamblin came along and I went with him on a mission. The second night out we camped at Stidson ranch, where Snowflake now stands. The third night we camped at the home of Mr. Cooley, a non-"Mormon," who was a very prominent man among the Apaches. He had two Apache women for wives. We told him we were traveling to preach peace and repentance among the different Indians. He treated us very kindly and told us that it was a necessary undertaking because of the troublous conditions that existed among the different tribes, meaning war. We traveled several days among the Apaches, telling them to live peaceful lives with each other; that all Indians were brethren, and should not war. We then went over to the Zuni villages and had a pleasant visit with the Indians there. Brother Jacob told them many good things. We went from there to Fort Wingate. Brother Jacob rehearsed to them all the different visits he had made to them in years gone by, their trials and difficulties, and reminded them of the different conditions then and now, as our people were leaving another country and would prove to them we were their friends, and that we bore tidings of great joy. Brother Hamblin and I, and Brother Tenney, traveled as far as Fort Defiance, an old fort now abandoned, where there had been many a war, struggle, and bloodshed in years gone by. We traveled about twenty miles further west, when Brother Hamblin and Brother Tenney returned. They left me alone in the center of the Navajo nation. They left me some flour, which the Indians readily enjoyed as they were unused to flour, corn-meal being their food. I lived on their food altogether, which was very hard on me, as they only eat one kind of food at a time. We would have one meal of horse-meat, boiled or roasted; with nothing else for the meal. Then mush for dinner, and goat-milk and gruel for supper. I grew very thin and weak after a time. I sheared several hundred sheep for them. President Young sent forty pairs of shears out to them, on learning from Brother Jacob that they had none; they sheared their sheep with a butcher knife and hoop-iron from a barrel with a rag wrapped around it, and they could only shear five or six a day, cutting only half of the wool. When I sheared some sheep nice and clean, and the sheep leaped about, it delighted the Indians very much. They thought sheep-shearing was a wonderful invention. As fast as they learned to use the shears I distributed these tools among them. It hurt their wrists, so that they broke the shears in two, and used them in the old way, but now they can all shear sheep with shears. After three months I had an opportunity to come home, once riding a little pony ninety miles in one day, bare-back, and by 88 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. following the mail carrier to Keam's Canyon. This was the hardest day I ever experienced in my life. After resting several days with Mr. William Keams, who was a noted Indian trader, he took me home to Brigham City, sixty-five miles, remaining with us over the Sabbath day. He was asked to speak in our services in Sunday school. He picked up the Book of Mormon; bore his testimony that it was true, having read it some time before. He said he had two Navajo wives and had lived with the Indians for forty years, and from their traditions he knew the book was a true account of that people. He said he did not have the stamina to embrace the gospel because of persecution by the law, and because of his standing in society. He always proved a true friend to the "Mormon" missionaries. He fed them and gave them clothes, and treated them kindly. William Keams died in a peculiar manner. He was a great blasphemer. We cautioned him about this. While on a journey to Fort Wingate with a companion he got angry at his team, kneeled down and challenged the Almighty to a duel, saying many vicious things. His companion cautioned him to stop talking that way and left him. A streak of lightning struck Mr. Keams and paralyzed him. He was taken to Fort Wingate, placed under the care of a military surgeon, but died at the expiration of twenty days. The last words he said were, "Tell my friend Mr. Christensen to tell all men that he comes in contact with, never to blaspheme or talk lightly of sacred things, as it is dangerous. Whether a believer or an unbeliever, respect the great Creator." I would like, if it were possible, to write a book to give due credit to Jacob Hamblin, Harry Hatch, John R. Young, and scores of other good men, who did a great work to establish peace among those uncivilized people. Their names will go down to future generations as men of indomitable courage to do good for the benefit of their fellow men. I have done but little in comparison to them, having just followed up what they so nobly began. However, I think I have been a most fortunate man in learning the Indian languages, and becoming their recognized friend and adviser through the many perilous periods of their history, by keeping them from war and rebelling against the government and otherwise leaving themselves liable to utter annihilation. A day will come when the government will acknowledge that the "Mormon" elders have been great peacemakers and benefactors to a fallen race. Through our instrumentality schools have been established on the reservation. Instead of taking their children hundreds of miles away by force to school, some never returning to their people, schools have now been provided at their home communities. The white man is beginning to appreciate that the OUR INDIAN COUSINS. 89 Indians love their children as intensely as other people, and it is no wonder that they have rebelled at times over their treatment. However, they have cast their weapons aside and do not desire war any more and are patiently submitting to the outcome of civilization as introduced among them. They are hopeful, looking for the twelve great men, of whom we have spoken, to return to them soon and restore to them all their former greatness and blessings, as promised them by their forefathers. Today you would not find three Indians in the whole Navajo nation who could inform you on the customs and habits and traditions of the Indians as herein described. The younger generation do not believe in the traditions of their forefathers, and the government has interfered with their former practices and their own laws have been abandoned practically for twenty-five years. All those great chiefs and historical characters who were acquainted with President Young, their great benefactor, have passed beyond, but whatever may hereafter be found by historians and other searchers after truth will not discredit the account herein contained. This narrative will only help to establish the truth more firmly. THE NAVAJO'S MORNING PRAYER. A man takes his son by the hand and leads in worship and the son repeats after him. Worship of the Sun.O thou Great King of Day! Again thou art on thy way. Thou who planted the first garden eastward and made the grass to grow, trees and flowers and food for man! Not man art thou, but the Great Creator; and thou, Sun Ray of Light, who shone on our fathers from the beginning, cease not to shine on us, thy children, and cause vegetation to grow. Man cannot endure without thee; we ask thy light for the good and the bad, for thou dost not distinguish between them. We love the Moon and the lesser lights, but the Moon is often obscured by darkness and fills us with fear that the end of Man will come before the Moon rises. When morning comes, thou Sun, dispel our fears and let hope, not despair, fill our bosoms with deep devotion, for thou art the dispenser of peace and blessings. (Repeated three times daily.) SERVICE WHILE CROSSING THE BIG COLORADO RIVER AT LEE'S FERRY. MOQUIS After stretching over the water some holy eagle feathers attached to some white cotton yarn, the Moquis say, "Peace, be still!" 90 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "Let thy angry bosom not swallow us and hide us from our loved ones. It is a disgrace to die in a watery grave, or to be hung by the neck with a rope. Oh, thou Great River, from which our fathers drank and in which they bathed their heated brows while fleeing from their enemies, remember us, their children, though less worthy than the mighty men of old. Thou knowest our humility and helplessness in contending against the elements, fire, water, and the thunders that roar overhead, controlled only by the Great Creator. "Peace, peace, be still!" In 1884 a delegation of representatives from Washington, D. C., came amongst the Navajos to inform them that there was a law against having more than one family. The Indians had large families, and according to their own laws they could have as many wives as they could support. Each family had to have 2,000 head of sheep and goats, enough to make them self-supporting. The Indians said they had been commanded to raise up a righteous branch at one time when their tribe was sorely diminished through their long wars, etc. The delegation gave them a talk about love at home with one wife, etc., and the impossibility of the love being sufficient for so many. Many more things were said with much pomp and flattery. They wished the Indians to dispense with these families of their own free will, and if not, by force. If the reader could have seen the frowns, the scorn, and the utter contempt depicted in the faces of those women and children as they listened to these unwelcome remarks! There was deep silence, and wonder what would be the answer of the Great War Chief and Lieutenant, and hero of many battles, Co mah ee yassy (The fiery wolf's young one). He had six wives and forty-two living children. I will now give his speech, in part: "You talk like children, you who live in the holy nation under the blessing of the Great Creator. You talk with the tongues of lightning. You use the wire and the paper, and all those wonderful things the white man is able to use so cunningly as tools against us. Have you left off your reasoning powers as men, have you no home nor loved ones? If you have not, you have no business here to enlighten us with that which fills our heart with aching and despair and a more abiding hatred for our white friends. Have you so soon forgotten the first man who came and discovered this, our goodly land, who with his vessels as agile as the swan, touched our shores near the rising Sun, and he and his men bowed down before our Great Chiefs, and begged for bread, and for a resting place until he could return to his own people. Our fathers granted it, and what has been the consequences? He soon returned with many and powerful armies. The armies OUR INDIAN COUSINS. 91 increased until they drove us toward the setting sun, and the end is not yet in sight. Do you pretend to say that we do not love our wives and children? They love us, let this be our answer. You may cut our throats from ear to ear, and send us over to the Great Beyond, there is room enough for all where our forefathers dwell in peace and happiness. You go! Tell the great white Chief  whether he is a man or a beast I know not  that we love our wives and children, and they love us; for them we live, and for them we die." Here he knelt down and kissed the earth and pulled his hair to show his reverence for the Creation of God, his love for his family, by the kiss, and his desperate and intense feeling under the strain of his present mood, by pulling his hair. His speech lasted over one hour. He told them of the Indian's disadvantages in the matter of arms, which was always in favor of the whites, and how they had taught them, the Indians, to drink whisky, and gave them horrible diseases which the Indians did not do nor have in their wars before that time, etc. The