A HAWAIIAN SUN MYTH.

	Ages ago there ruled over one of the "seven
isles" that now form collectively the kingdom
of Hawaii, the powerful demi-god Maui. So
great was he that the island which he governed
is known today by his name, and is second in
size and importance of them all. The island
was originally but one huge peak, rising ten
thousand feet above the sea, and Pele, the
great goddess of volcanoes, had her fiery home
in the huge crater on its summit. To the
westward rose another peak, where formerly
Pele had dwelt; and when, in the course of
centuries, the goddess abandoned the great
crater on the eastern half took up her abode
Kilauea, on Hawaii, where she yet rides on
waves of liquid fire in the incandescent lakes
of Hale-mau-mau, "the house of fire"—the slow
moving debris from the vast slopes of her
former home drove back the sea, and formed.
the low lying penninsula uniting East and
West Maui.
	The great demi-god, from whom the island
takes its name, saw each day the sun rise
from out of the vast crater on the eastern
summit; and he resolved like Joshua of old
to stop it on its course. So he prepared a net
and had it carried on the shoulders of a
thousand men, and in one night spread it from
one peak to another, until it covered the great
crater. Then he watched, and when the sun
god again arose from out the depths of that
profound abyss he found himself entangled in
the spreading mesh. In vain he sent his
fiery shafts abroad; they passed through the
deftly woven meshes without weakening them;
and so at last the sun god prayed to be re
leased.
	Maui exacted but one condition; that was,

[Column 2]

that for all future time the sun should shine
with warm but gentle power on the islands,
never shrouding his rays in mist or fog, or
causing them to beat too strongly on the
favored land. The promise given, the net was
cut away, and since then the sun has kept
its pledge. The year around it sheds its light
and life over the "seven isles," never too
warm or cold, never obscured by fogs or mists,
always beneficent and bland.		Ex.


