WOMEN WORKERS.

	The question which is always asked, always
discussed in regard to women, and any field of
active labor in which they may desire to engage,
is, have they the physique for it? Will they
not break down under it? Does it not require
more strength than they possess? These  sym-
pathetic doubts are not expressed concerning
women who take in washing, who spend their
days in scrubbing abroad and their nights in
washing and ironing and cleaning at home,
but only when the labor competes with that of
men, in journalism for example, in medicine,
in farming, in general business, or in any
scientific pursuit.
	As long as there was a question of capacity.
that was discussed ad nauseam; now that this
has settled itself, and women are doing all
the time by the hundreds and thousands that
which it was said women could not do at all,
the old obstructive spirit appears in new guise,
and we are told that it is absurd for women to
enter upon this or that, with an organization
that is too delicate to bear continued strain.
That this kind of argument is not recognized
as arrant nonsense, is simply because some
women have allowed both physical and mental
faculties to grow so weak by want of use, that
they take their own condition as furnishing an
average, and believe it to be the normal state
of all women. If this were true, then it is
high time public opinion was aroused upon
this matter and poor women were protected and
saved for the sake of possible motherhood from
doing the drudgery of the world; from stand-
ing all day at the wash-tub, the ironing table,
from working side by side with men in the
fields, the factories, the workshop, doing as
much work at less price, and supplementing it
with as hard labor at home, while the man is
resting  or drinking up his own and the
woman's gains in a beershop.
	It is perhaps natural that men should use
every argument that presents itself against
possible encroachment on their  preserves.
But women had better inquire and find out
of what women have shown themselves capable
before deciding that women cannot do this
or that, and putting the obstacle of an adverse
opinion in the way of their advancement.
The actual truth is that women have more
continued resisting power, and more endurance
than men. They can do more kinds of work,
and keep at it longer than men. One of the
reasons is that they are more quiet, more
persistent, and do not throw away so much
nervous energy as men. There is nothing
women cannot do if they set themselves to
work to accomplish it. It is, perhaps,
fortunate for men that their desires have here-
tofore been so simple and modest in character.
With the experience of active paying work,
and the acquisition of power that it brings
the desire for appropration may come, here-
tofore a peculiarly masculine attribute, and
then—well, the experience of ancient Egypt
may be repeated in modern America.
		J. J.
The Woman's Cycle.


PUNDITA RAMABAI has started on a tour of
Hindoostan to appeal for funds in aid of her
school. She has been warmly received every
where, and at the close of a lecture which she
delivered at Hyderabad two thousand rupees
were subscribed among the audience. It is
noteworthy that a Mohammedan capital should
be among the foremost supporters of a purely
Hindu institution.


