FORTY YEARS AMONG THE INDIANS.

	The above is the title of a book issued from
the Juvenile Instructor Office during this Spring;
the author of the work is Daniel W. Jones, a man
well know among this people for many years past
and as the name of the book signifies, contains
his experiences among the natives, and his views
of their condition and treatment. The writer is
undoubtedly a man of great courage or he could
never have ventured into dangerous places as he
evidently has, from the thrilling episodes graphi-
cally related in his book.
	It would be quite impossible in so little space
as we have to devote to the matter to give a com-
plete review of the work, neither does the writer
think herself a competent judge of books written
upon Indian subjects. It is a theme separate and
apart almost from other literature, and requires as
much thorough attention in order to form correct
views as to master a foreign language. After
forty years practical experience with the aborigi-
nes of the Western wilds, Brother Jones ought
to be posted in regard to Indian habits and
practises. The subject is an exhaustive one, and
it is a topic that has ever presented new
phases in treating upon from the time the earliest
Pilgrims set foot on this continent. Solomon
said there was nothing new under the sun, but
there are many things new to us in the history of
the people, past and present, who formerly pos-
sessed the land of America, and Brother Jones
has discovered some of these new things and has
told them in his characteristic style.
	It requires men and women of peculiar attri-
butes and temperaments to adapt themselves
sufficiently to Indian life to get at the bottom of it
or to see through the subtlety and cunning natural
to savage nations, and be able to live among
them and help to uplift and elevate them. They
are far sighted even in their ignorance and super-
stition and are very suspicious of others therefore
men must be honest and upright who expect to
do them good in any matter whatever. They ad-
mire courage and detest cowardice; fearless,
great-souled men of splendid physique and
majestic presence are the ones likely to be well
treated by them.
	In this book there are many simple plain stories
told in a straight forward way, the facts of which
are well known to our people; and much of life
in the South which will be better appreciated by
those acquainted with the country, than one who
knows so little of what might be termed Indian
history.
	One thing may be said truthfully of this book,
open it anywhere promiscuously and you will find
the reading matter interesting at least, and often
absorbing. A book that one may pick up and
read here and there detached passages out o
chapters, must contain many rich incidents, and
on whatever subject written there would be a
charm about it, otherwise it could not interest the
reader.
	Brother Jones says of himself that his style is
peculiar and more than that the writer affirms
that it is original. It is not a copy of any other
work; and being original in style, and giving
many sides of Indian character in which the
Latter-day Saints take great interest, it should
find ready sale as no doubt it will.
	As to the author's good motives in publishing
there can be very little doubt, and whatever tends

[Column 2]

to the simplifying of  the great problem of the
Indian question must be of value and of special
worth. It seems to us a book that might do good
among the people of the United States in remov-
ing prejudice against the Indians and showing
the better side of their nature. The writer would
be very glad to see it circulated not only among
this poople but where prejudice is rife against
those, who feel they were once the rightful
owners of the soil now in the possession of the
white men.
	The heart full of sympathy instinctively ex-
claims with the poet,
	"Lo ! the poor Indian"


