DEATH OF MRS. HARRIET A. SNOW.

	Sister Harriet A. Snow, of Brigham City, wife
of Apostle Lorenzo Snow, passed away from
earth on Monday May 12, at three o'clock a.m.,
after an illness of two or three weeks, having
suffered severely from paralysis. Sister Snow's
maiden name was Squires, and she was born in
Aurora, Geauga Co., Ohio, Sept. 13, 1819. Her
suffering for a few days previous to her demise
was very great, but she bore all with that patience
aud meekness that had characterized her whole
life. During the time of her illness she was often
administered to by the Elders and received great
relief; she was a woman of implicit faith in the
power of the priesthood.
	Her children were around her and every thing
was done that the most devoted affection could
suggest to alleviate pain and soothe her distress,
and comfort the last hours of her life. She was
one of whom it may be truly said, "well done
good and faithful servant enter thou into the joy
of the Lord."
	Sister. H. A. Snow was chosen to preside over
the Relief Society of Box Elder Stake, when the
organization was effected May 14, 1878. She has
been a very efficient and active presiding officer
and in her labors among the sisters in the several
branches, and in visiting them from time to time
she won their confidence, respect and love; al-
ways wise in counsel and vigilant in the welfare
of those over whom she bad the honor to pre-
side. She will be greatly missed in the organiza-
tions, as well as by her children and grandchild-
ren, relatives and friends. She was a most affec-
tionate and tender mother, wise and judicious in
the training and management of those under her
care. Sister Snow's last visit to this City was at
the October Conference in 1889, which she very
much enjoyed. From here she went to the Manti
Temple and officiated there for some of her
kindred passed away, which was a great com-
fort. She has gone to join those gone before,
her children, parents and loved ones, and to re-
ceive the reward laid up for those, who endure
unto the end of life's pilgrimage. Sister Zina D.
H. Young was at the house at the time of Sister
Snow's death, having gone up there the day be-
fore hoping to comfort if possible those who were
so sorely afflicted at this trying time.
	To the bereaved husband and family the writer


extends her sincere sympathy and condolence,
but realizes that after a long and useful life, she
has gone to the rest that remains to the Saints of
God.

	"After the burden and heat of the day,
		The starry calm of night;
	After the rough and toilsome way
		Asleep in the robe of white."


[Column 1]

