SUFFRAGE MEETINGS.

	A meeting of the W. S. A. of Millard Co.
was held in Holden April 15, Mrs. M. A. Y.'

[Column 2]

Greenhalgh presiding. It was well attended
the speakers were the president, Mr. A. Y.
Stephenson, and Mr. Cherrington, Mesdames
M. M. Ashley and M. Badger. All expressed
themselves in perfect sympathy with the
movement being made for obtaining the suff-
rage for women, and her political righti, thus
ensuring her freedom.
	Two meetings of the W. S. A. of Millard
Co., were held in Deseret April 16, Mrs. M.
A. Y. Greenhalgh presiding. The first meet-
ing was held at 2 30 in the Relief Society
hall, and was well attended. At 5 p.m. a
motion was made that an evening meeting
should be held in the schoolhouse at 8 p.m.
and the meeting was adjourned until that
hour.
	At the evening meeting the house was well
filled. Both meetings were opened with
prayer. The afternoon meeting Leigh Cropper
and the evening by B. W. Scott. The choir
sang several of the songs of Freedom, with
much spirit. The president gave an account
of her labors since the last meeting at Deseret,
and of her visit to Salt Lake to attend the
convention last October, she spoke at some
length on the suffrage question,and the right of
freedom for women, and the advance the
movement was making all over the world.
	The speakers in the afternoon, besides the
president, were Leigh Cropper and Joshua
Bennett, and Mesdames Cropper, Whickers,
Stocks, and Gibbs.
	In the evening the speakers were the presi-
dent, J. W. Reed and J. F. Gibbs, Mesdames
Fanny Scott, and Anna Kinder also spoke
enthusiastically in favor of equal rights for
women. The two gentlemen speakers differed
with the president, as to woman being as
strong-minded as man, or as quick of percep-
tion, but were in favor of her having the
ballot, and equal political rights with men.
The song "Lords of Creation," was charmingly
rendered by Mrs. Vilate Hawley; the choir
sang one of freedom’s songs, and the meeting
closed with prayer offered by R. S. Scott.
	A meeting of the Millard Co., W. S. A.
was held in Oak City, April 16th, Mrs. M. A.
Y. Greenhrlgh presiding. The meeting was
opened with prayer by G. Finlayson, singing
by the choir. The president stated the ob-
ject of the association, and read the constitu-
tion, this being the first meeting held in Oak
City since the organization of the W. S. A. in
Millard Co. The president addressed the
meeting at some length, upon the equal rights
question, and the emancipation of woman
from political thraldom.
	The other speakers were G. Finlayson, and
E. Roper. These gentlemen said this was the
first meeting of the W. S. A. they had at-
tended, but they were perfectly in accord
with the movement, and hoped the time was
not far distant, when women would have the
ballot; and would have equal rights with the
men.
	There was some good singing by the choir,
and a vote of thanks was tendered to the
president for her visit. The meeting termi-
nated by prayer offered by Jos. Anderson.
	A meeting of the Millard Co., W. S. A.
was held in Leamington April 17. Mrs. M.
A. Y. Greenhalgh presiding, the meeting was
fairly well attended, all present being enthusi-
astic, and earnest in advocating equal rights
for women, especially the right of suffrage.
The speakers were the president, Messrs. Neil-
son, Talbot, Textonias, and Grundald—and
Mesdames Morison, Textonias, Sorenson Han-
cock and Pay. Many of the speeches were
forcible and well delivered, showing that the
speakers had studied the subject, and felt
keenly the injustice of being deprived of the
right to the ballot.


[Column 1]

	The choir sang some of freedom's songs in
a spirited manner adding much to the interest
of the meeting. The opening prayer was
offered by Bishop Neilson, and the benediction
by B. P. Textonias. The president was in-
troduced by Mrs. Lestra Morison in a neat,
and appropriate speech.
	A meeting of the Millard Co., W. S. A. was
held at Meadow, April 30. Mrs. M. A. Y. Green-
halgh presiding. The choir sang, and prayer
was offered by H. G. Labrum. The president
gave a brief account of her journey through the
county, and expressed herself as being proud
of the manner in which all the towns had re-
sponded to the call, for meetings, and thought
that Millard would, and could, bear compari-
son with any other county in the Territory,
both as to number of meetings held during the
past eleven months and the number of names
on the list of members.
	The other speakers beside the president,
were Messrs. Beckstrand, James Duncan, David
Duncan and Hyrum Adams. Mr. Adams
gave a humorous description of woman's faults
from mother Eve down to the present time,
saying she was only a terror to the men, but
yet felt she was fully entitled to the ballot and
equal political rights, with the men. He stated
that in what he had said he had been fishing
for a reply from the president, with whom he
had often had wordy tussles on the same ques-
tion, but only for the purpose of getting her
ideas on this subject and other political and
social questions.
	The president replied in a short speech, the
little episode made the meeting lively and en-
joyable. Mrs. Jane Stewart was the only other
speaker, in a short, but effective speech she ad-
vocated the rights of her sex, and expressed a
hope that we should obtain all we asked for.
	The choir sang and the meeting was ad-
journed. Prayer being offered by E. A. Beck-
strand.
