VOLUME 18—19.

	The present number of the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT completes the eighteenth volume and we
are sorry that the story of Hephzibah is not
finished, but we have only allowed a small portion
of the paper for its publication. However it will
be concluded very soon now, and it is to be hoped
that the subscription will not be decreased for
volume nineteen. We aim so far as practicable
to keep up with the news of woman's work and
mission in various directions, not apart from man
but as a helper and co-worker with man.
	The Relief Society Conferences general and
quarterly are found in the columns of the paper,
Primary Associations are represented therein and
woman's suffrage work finds sufficient prominence
in its pages. There is always space given to the
writings of our sisters old and young, and even
children whenever the articles are at all suitable,
as it has been the aim from the first issue to en-
courage home talent.
	In the Volumes of the EXPONENT may be found
biographical sketches of some of the leading wo-
men of Zion, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Eliza R.
Snow Smith, Zina D. H. Young, Mary Isabella
Horne, Presendia L. Kimball, Mary Ann Young,
Sarah M. Kimball and others have and will ap-
pear from time to time. The EXPONENT aims to
record the lives and noble works of the women of
the Latter-day Saints. This is the class of wo-
men who are expected to sustain it by their in-
fluence and subscription. We earnestly hope all
local agents will see that the lists are filled for
volume nineteen which will probably be the best
ever issued. The price of the paper one dollar
per year ought to bring it within reach of all those
who have a desire to subscribe for it. We shall
be very glad to hear from the agents in the various
localities throughout the Stakes of Zion, and we
most earnestly hope that persistent efforts may
be made to sustain the paper, and also increase
its size and improve it, for it is the official
organ of the Relief Society and records all events
of importance in the history of the Women of
Zion.


[Column 1]

