PHILOSOPHER'S LAW.

	Prof. Henry Drummond has pointed out
that it frequently happens that the poet's
vision is more quick than the scientist's or the
theologian's. And history is full of proofs of
his statement, The poet's vision has been the
first to foresee many an important discovery of
science, many a Copernican revolution in
philosophy and theology. Not always true as
a hard-and-fast statement of fact are these poetic
visions, but they give to science a bias that soon
bears fruit. I suppose few of us will keep
company with Arthur Schopenhauer when he
says, "It' a single real existence, even the
most insignificant, were to be utterly annihila-
ted, the whole world would necessarily perish
with it." Much less will we assent to the con-
ceit of the great mystic, Angelus Silesius,
when he says:

	"I know God cannot live an instant without me,
	He must give up the ghost if I should cease to be."

Yet a moment's reflection upon these statements
in the light of modern science fills them with
profound significance. The little atom now
so insignificant has been a power in the world
since its earliest beginning. It has wielded
some influence, "though ever so lowly," upon
the whole world. And perhaps at some time
in its career it may have been the pivot over
which the balance, swayed toward modern pro-
gress, or it may have been the straw that
broke the camel's back. Angelus Silesius was
not an accident in his own age but a real
organic part of it. Certain forms of energy
had been preparing since creation's early morn,
to work powerfully through the mystic's brain
and nerve fiber. In a sense, then, it was no
conceit for him to say "God cannot live an
instant without me." For without him the
whole past and future history of the world
must have been changed, and changed in
utter disregard of God's fundamental law, the
law of the persistence of force.
	Before Silesius lived the above thought was
foreshadowed by a statement in the book of
Hebrews that the old patriarchs without us
cannot be made perfect. So long as time lasts
no life that bridged a portion of it is complete.
All this prepares us for that poet's vision
of the value of little things which Jesus had
"Take heed," says he "that ye despise not one
of these little ones." In these words is fore-
shadowed one of the profoundest and most
beautiful truths of modern science. Do not
despise one of these little things, for the
little and the great are so closely joined that
even a God cannot separate them. Not a
sparrow falls to the ground without our
Father's notice. The very hairs of our head are
all numbered. There is but one universe and it
is a universum. Just as the crushing of
a finger is at once reported at the brain so
that the whole self suffer—so, says science,
there is not a thing in the universe that is
isolate from the rest, but every smallest thing
is woven in the very web and woof of the
whole. Its grief, its sorrow, its joy, and its
hope are at once felt at the very core of being.
To despise the little things is to forget and
ignore this great law. Little moments little
smiles, little favors, little deeds—out of these,
worlds are made and character is builded. It

[Column 2]

was a favorite thought of the late Professor
Morris, of Michigan university, that to the
Absolute Eye nothing can be either common
place or ugly. Our training has been such that
we look upon certain animals as awkward and
hideous;but it is our training and the littleness
of our minds and hearts that incline us to
despise those animals. To God, as the Hebrew
Koheleth has said, "all things are beautiful."
And to Him no littlest, meanest thing is
despised. A universe has a use for all things,
and it is ignorance of this great and lovable
truth that makes contempt of little things so
common and so baneful in its effects. We
see in the little things only littleness, familarity,
and contempt, when we ought to find, even
here, greatness, wisdom, and praise. The poet
Chaucer saw all the beauty, tenderness, and
strength of human love in a common wild
daisy. The psalmist saw all the glory, majesty,
and royalty of his Messiah in the lily of the
valley. Jesus saw the workings of His doctrine
portrayed with marvelous accuracy and clear-
ness in the behavior of the lump of leaven which
the woman took and hid in three measures of
meal.
	It is the last straw that breaks the camel's
back. It is the push of a very small boy that
sets the great, new ship sliding gracefully
down into old ocean's waiting arms. It is the
little foxes that  spoil the vines. A fuller
knowledge must lead us forever out of the rut
of contempt for small things. The great
things of life we cannot appreciate until we
cease despising the little things. One of the
happiest freaks in Emerson's style, according
to Mr. Gannett, is his favorite habit of com-
paring great things with small. By an effort
almost divine he is ever and anon impressing
us with the magnitude and pivotal importance
of little things. "the universe" he says, "is
represented in every one of its particles.
Everything in nature contains all the powers
of nature." "The entire system of things gets
represented in every particle." "Every man is
a divinity in disguise." "Every true man a
cause, a country, and an age; requires infinite
spaces and numbers and time fully to ac-
complish his thought."

	"There is no great and no small
	To the Soul that maketh all."

We may accept Emerson's philosophy or not,
as we will, but we must admit the wisdom of
his teachings in regard to the little things.
There was no room for contempt in a soul
like Emerson's. His view was so penetrating,
deep, and broad.
	If there is one thought above another that
our larger knowledge is pressing home to us,
it is the idea of the solidarity of existence; it
is the idea that there	*	*	*
God is just as  present now as He was
when Moses prayed and Isaiah prophesied,
just as present in the shop to day as he was in
the church last Sunday, just as present in the
deed as in the prayer, in the blade of grass as
in the bleeding heart. No law is any more
isolated from another than is one family from
another in the same city. All things are laced
and interlaced; all are bound together in a
great bundle of aspiration, man with man,
sun with sun, force with force. And as this
thought grows upon us, we are more than
ever impressed that in this great system of
law, order, and organization, all things the
little as well as the great, become ministerial
in aspect.

	As Byron has said;

	I live not in myself, but I become
	Portion of that around me.

And again in the same strain he sings:

	Are not the mountaians, waves, and skies a part
	Of me and of my soul, as I of them?

		—A. B. Curtis.
	Big Rapids, Mich.


