HEPHZIBAH.
XXI.

Misfortunes fall upon the brave and true,
	We know not how to solve the mystery;
'Tis well the future's hidden from our view,—
	Whereon is written our life's history.

	The Harvey's had arrived in Nauvoo when
great events were pending, the tranquility of
the city was much disturbed, the Prophet was
being threatened, and traitors were planning
destruction to the work of the Lord. William
Law who had been Joseph's counselor and
intimate friend had just been excommunicated
from the Church,and was the leader of a band
of wicked man who had also been Latter-day
Saints, but were now arrayed against the
Prophet and his followers.
	A newspaper was about being started by Apos-
tates to be called the "The Nauvoo Expositor"
in which all kinds of evil reports concerning
the people of Nauvoo and vicinity
would be circulated throughout the state
of Illinois arousing the indignation of the
people, and causing mobbings etc. which com-
mencing on the outskirts soon caused the people
in Nauvoo to feel that even there with a City
Charter and such protection as the law afforded
they were insecure.
	Mr. and Mrs. Harvey were filled with fear
and dismay and would not remain in Nauvoo.
	It was a time of great doubt with some of 
the half-hearted people, and the Harvey's were
afraid of losing their worldly possessions, and
finally decided to buy a farm at Laharpe
about twenty miles out from the city.
	Mrs. Harvey senior knew very well that
Hepsie would not go with them willingly for she
had heard her express herself so strongly in her
belief in the divinity of the work: one day while
making some preparations for removal Mrs.
Harvey inquired in this way "Hepsie are you
going with us out to the farm and help Harold
get a start in the world I want to get him out of
Nauvoo he's to much carried away now with
the parading and mustering of the Nauvoo
legion, standing guard at night and sleeping in
Joseph's barn when off duty. He shan't have
any of our means to waste in this manner I can
tell ye?"
	Hepsie said nothing she had learned like
Mr. Harvey that silence was best especially
if she intended to carry her point in the end
which she certainly did.
	Her silence was construed to stubbornness
and Mrs. Harvey added, "you have nothing
much of your own but what you have I shall
pack up with our things for you'll have to go
there's no other way."
	As usual when disagreeable subjects were
broached Hepsie rushed up stairs to give vent
to her grief in tears and prayers as she in-
variably did when very unhappy and now she
was full almost to bursting. She could scarcely
have answered Mrs. H.—had she tried; while
she was weeping and sobbing she heard Harold

[Column 2]

come in, she could hear his mother in her
loudest tones questioning him about going,
"And so my boy you persist in remaining in
Nauvoo whatever comes, well you will have
to stay alone, I shall take Hepsie she can't
be left alone at night, while your off on duty
as you call it, and besides she can't do any-
thing any more than a doll. I wish you
would be reasonable and come, but I know
you'll be glad to bye and bye for the worst
hasn't come yet."
	He laughed merrily and only answered her,
"well mother we shall see," and bounded up
stairs finding Hepsie in a flood of tears.
"What's the matter little one?" said he in a
voice so cheery as to make all around seem as
though a flood of sunlight broke in suddenly,
what makes you fret so much?" and he added
"you are so changed."
	"Your mother says we shall go with her to
Laharpe and leave this beautiful city where I
expected to be so happy, but I will not go I'll
give up everything first" "Everything" Harold
said, "yes Harold everything but you and my
religion." You may be called upon to do that if
you remain firm and steadfast; but never mind
cheer up, mother has to scold and use a little
authority now and then its her nature,she means
all right we'll get the best of her yet." "Come
out a little while for a walk, it will do you good,
and cheer your spirits wonderfully you get so
gloomy shut up here and I'm always away."
	They went out to gether the day was a
charming one in early June, they chose the
most beautiful paths near the river and they
conversed together more seriously upon the
principles of truth than they had ever done
before.
	While Harold had been associated with
members of the Nauvoo legion, some of them
veterans in the cause,and all staunch Latter-day
Saints, he had learned more concerning the
Gospel than ever before, and he spoke to his
wife of these things, of the principles of
eternal mariage by which husband and wife
could be joined in the holy bond of matrimony
not only for this life but for eternity to come,
forever and forever. They had wandered away
some distance from home and were in a beauti-
ful shady, grassy picturesque place near the
river; steamboats were plying up and down and
Hepsie's thoughts turned backward to the sea,
and her presentiments when a child at the sea-
shore;-but Harold could always drive away
melancholy, he was so buoyant and hopeful,
it was almost impossible to be even pensive in
his presence, and yet he was poetical; he re-
peated stanza after stanza to Hepsie during
that walk which was one of the red letter days
to her: he assured her that as soon as peace
prevailed in the city again and he could speak
to the Prophet, they would have a marriage
ceremony performed by the Prophet himself
which would unite them more closely together
and hereafter nothing could ever separate
them. They vowed eternal constancy then
and there and yet in her heart of hearts
Hepsie had those strange misgivings that had
haunted her since her first acquaintance with
Harold.
	"Little one why are you so pensive, I know
you are not happy a moment when I'm away
but only think how noble it is "to be on duty,"
and you must think of my being one to
protect our great leader and General as well as
Prophet seer and revelator." Then they talked
of Joseph his wonderful power, his magnfi-


[Column 1]

cent appearance mounted on his white horse,
giving orders to the men.
	And so they chatted until the evening shades
began to gather and they were about to turn
their steps homeward when Harold's poetic
nature burst forth in the song,

	"We parted in silence, we parted at night,
		On the banks of that lonely river;
	Where the moonbeams shed their silvery light,
		We met—and we parted forever!
	And the cold pale moon, and the stars above"
		Told many a touching story
	Of friends long passed to the kingdom of rest
		Where the soul wears its mantle of glory.

	"We parted in silence our cheeks were wet
		With the tears that were past controling
	We vowed we would never, no, never forget
		And those vows at the time were consoling.
	But the lips that echoed that vow of mine
		Are as cold as that lonely river
	And that sparkling eye, the spirits shrine,
		Has shrouded its fire forever."

	"And now on the midnight sky I look,
		And my heart grows full to weeping;
	Each star to me is a sealed book,
		Some tale of that loved one keeping.
	We parted in silence,—we parted in tears,
		On the banks of that lonely river;
	But the odor and bloom of those by-gone years
		Shall hang round its waters forever."

	The last words of the song died away upon
his lips, the voice was scarcely audible, and
the young wife was again in tears; "Let us
go home Hepsie, I ought not to have sung
that song, it always impresses me with sad
forebodings, but then I never yield to super-
stitions of any kind, we shall never be parted,
never! I pledge myself anew to you to-day,
for time and all eternity. You know I never
loved before, and it was love at first sight
with me, and you know too, that I have never
felt so sure of your love, never could quite
fathom it." "That's because its too deep
Harold! And girls are taught to hide their
love, to be undemonstrative." "Hepsie you
are evasive you do not say to me frankly,
'Harold I love you better than all else in the
world!" "But Harold, you forget I have
given up 'all else' as you say for you, and you
are all I have." "Is it not enough? Does
not every wife leave her home and friends for
her husband?" "Then you do not think I
have made a sacrifice Harold?" "Well in
one sense yes! But Hepsie there will be other
opportunities for you, and greater ones than
you would have had in a little New England
village, Mormonism opens a wide field for in-
tellectual attainments, only "we have fallen
upon troublous times" just now. I must stand
guard again to night and you will be alone up
stairs, but my heart is always with you."
This was the substance of the conversation
though much was said of their present and
future life; after their return home, and sup-
per over, Harold bade his wife "good night,"
and she was left alone. She ever remembered
that night and in after years the memory of
promises made would flash before her vivid
imagination, waking thoughts of that which
might have been, had fortune smiled upon her
youthful days, but it was not so.
	We are not giving a history, only giving
some incidents in the life of Hephzibah, and
at this time she was sorely troubled. Yet her
faith grew stronger every day in the Prophet
Joseph Smith and his divine mission and
Harold's too seemed firmer, but his mother
was now a bitter apostate; and day and night
murmured against the prophet and those
who associated with him; and repeated all the
evil reports and calumnies that were afloat.
	Since Hepsie came to Nauvoo she had been
to visit some of the company who had left the
village of B. in 1842 and among others the
young people who had married rather hastily

[Column 2]

just before coming away. She did not find
them very congenial society especially the two
young college graduates and their wives. The
eldest one whom she had ardently hoped would
have married Lucy Reynolds, informed her
that he was soon going back East with his wife
and baby; and she felt that Lucy had been
spared this sorrow at least, better be single
after a broken engagement, than have an apos-
tate husband. The other brother was not much
better, he thought of going back, to retutn
again when things had quieted down.
	Hepsie wrote to Lucy and told her of her
visit, and that the two Mr. W's. would return
home or settle somewhere in the East and pos-
sibly use an influence against the Gospel, and
warned her to beware, for they would bring
evil and false reports; they had become em-
bittered and were working against the Saints.
	Those who are familiar with the events that
took place about that time are aware how one
unpleasant occurrence followed another until
the crisis came. Hepsie was near the Main
street of the city and heard much that was
going on and she was unaccustomed to any
excitement of this nature, away from her
mother,and her husband in the midst of danger
as it seemed te her, no wonder if her whole
nervous system was shaken to its center.
There was one good sister, who sometimes
comforted her with words of faith and hope,
and whenever Harold could come home for a
few minutes she felt re-assured. Hepsie never
forgot the time the Nauvoo Expositor was
destroyed; and the feeling that prevailed among
the people.

	The facts in this case are well known to the
Saints, and we only speak of it in its effect
on Hepsie. The depression of spirits she
suffered about this time was almost beyond
endurance, she was ill in body and mind,
and yet her faith increased. She could not
but feel that a special providence was over
her; she saw very little of Harold, but
realized he was in the performance of what he
thought duty, and if she was not reconciled
to his absence, she tried to bear it courageously. 
	Mrs. Harvey had things packed up to move
away, but halted between going and staying,
wondering in which most danger was likely to
be involved. She upbraided Hepsie daily, tell-
ing her Harold would not be so headstrong in
Mormonism if it were not for her, and Hepsie
when she felt her loneliness most deeply was
rather proud of Harold's nobility in maintain-
ing his place among the young men, who were
ready to brave any danger in case of emer-
gency.
	Joseph's going to Carthage to deliver him-
self up with the others who were accused
spread dismay and consternation through the
City of Nauvoo, the people were almost wild,
hundreds yes, thousands would gladly have
gone in his stead; they mourned even then and
when the dreadful news of the massacre came
it was as if a thunderbolt had fallen in the
midst of the City, and a dark cloud hung like
a sable pall over all, that none seemed able to
pierce. The beautiful City was deluged in
tears as it were, mourning and lamentation on
every hand. Those who were there can never
forget the dreadful scenes, and it is impossible
to describe the occurrences so as to convey a
definite idea of the tragedy, to those who view
it from a distance in a pen picture.
	The people were advised to be calm, to keep
the peace and trust to the law to avenge their
wrongs, and there was less excitement than
there was agonizing sorrow. Bowed down with
grief at the cruel martyrdom of their prophet
and patriarch the Saints awaited the return of
the Apostles who were away from home at the
time with anxious expectancy. The only
Apostle there except John Taylor, who lay
wounded and helpless was Willard Richards,

[Column 3]

and the Saints listened to his advice and to
that of others who had been Joseph's staunch
friends. Shortly after the martyrdom the
Harveys left Nauvoo, but Hepsie and Harold
refused to go, notwithstanding threats and en-
treaties at the last moment from Mrs. Harvey.
They were really left almost destitute, for Mrs.
H. had carried out her intention of taking with
her, what Hepsie had brought from her own
home, at the time of her marriage. Poor
Hepsie however felt relieved when they were
gone and almost for the first time since leaving
home breathed freely. Harold was in the
gayest of spirits, he was young and strong,
and his father had given him some money, unbe-
known to his mother. They commenced
housekeeping on a very small scale, most of the
things except furniture being lent them, by a
woman Hepsie had formerly known, who lived
in an adjacent village, but was a member of
the same branch of the Church; and when
the Harveys went away she came a friend
indeed and offered them assistance, which
circumstances almost compelled them to accept.
	Harold put the money he had into a com-
mission business with two other young men
on Main Street, and he had every hope of
success in the enterprise. Hepsie had many
misgivings and presentiments, she had no idea
what kind of young men they were except that
Harold never mentioned them or wanted her
to see them. But she was now really ill, they
lived near the river bank and Hepsie began to
have the ague which more than ever increased
their troubles and embarrassments. They
were obliged to have help in the house
and week after week the poor little wife seemed
to grow weaker, paler and more helpless, she
scarcely knew when Harold came or went. He
was affectionate, tender and gentle, he used to
lift her up in his strong arms, and treat  her
as one would a child. Meantime messages
came from Laharpe begging them to leave
Nauvoo and come there, but even had Harold
wished to go, Hepsie was too ill to be moved.
	Letters came occasionally from New Eng-
land, Lucy Reynold's engagement was an-
nounced, and finally the news of her marriage
to a good young man, a member of the Church,
who had come up from New Haven to B. on
business, and fallen in love with Miss
Reynolds. Hepsie's mother wrote that she
had been obliged to put off coming to Nauvoo
in the fall as she had expected, on account of
some technicality in the law that had been
overlooked regarding the sale of the property.
Hepsie grieved for her mother, it was a great
disappointment, but she was patient and hope-
ful through all, looking back upon it after-
wards she often marveled that she survived so
many nervous shocks.
	One beautiful Sabbath morning a son was
born in that lowly home, such a wee little
thing, and the child-mother was too ill to think
at first, but bye and bye she realized that the
crisis was past, which she had been looking
forward too, and she was almost surprised to
find she was still living and Harold was there;
his the only face she recognized amongst them
all, strangers were around her bed, and she
knew by the pitying accents, and tones of
sympathy, that she had been down almost
into the valley of the shadow of death.
	Baby had soft wavy brown hair and such
lovely eyes, but he was sick too, and she
worried about him, and tried very hard to help
a little with him, but it was very little she
could do, she thought more about her mother
now, but it was all of no avail, she realized in
its fulness, what it meant to be a stranger, and
yet friends were kind. She named baby herself,
and she enjoyed having him with her, but it
was not long, for on another lovely Sabbath
morning five weeks from the day he was born
he passed peacefully away from earth, and
those who loved him so devotedly.


