WEDDING ANNIVERSARY.

	Monday May 5, was the twenty-fourth anni-
versary of the marriage of Drs. M. B. and
Ellis R. Shipp. In the evening there was a
gathering of a few friends at their residence in
this City in honor of the happy occasion.
	The party convened in the same room where
so many years before they had begun their
wedded life.
	It was a kind of impromtu affair, and there-
fore there was only a few of the many friends,
who would otherwise have been invited to par-
ticipate in the enjoyment of the evening.
	Almost the entire evening was devoted to
music, Miss Eda Delean gave several pieces
of very difficult piano music in the manner of
a professional and was much applauded, she
also sang one or two songs very sweetly. Miss
Maude Pratt who has a full soprano voice, was
very obliging, and sang again and again, some
new pieces and other "dear old songs;" she
has an excellent voice and her singing shows
considerable cultivation. Mrs. Lizzie Felt a
favorite singer and who plays wonderfully
well on the guitar, gave some instrumental
pieces on the guitar and accompanied most of
the songs she sung also on the guitar. Her
voice is strong, full and sweet. Richard and
Bard Shipp rendered several pieces of instru-
mental music on guitar, flute, and mandolin, and
altogether it might almost be called "a musi-
cale."
	The company conversed freely, there were no
speeches or recitations, but refreshments were
daintily served with ice cream, lemonade, fruit
etc.
	It was not only the wedding day of the Drs.
but the birthday anniversary of Dr. M. B.
Shipp's father who has now reached the ad-
vanced age of eighty-two. The company was
composed mostly of old friends or more prop-
erly those who were intimately acquainted
with each other formerly, but who in these
busy days have little time for society. Mr.
and Mrs. Shipp were heartily congratulated on
having sailed safely so far over the sometimes
troublous sea of matrimony; they received
some valuable presents, souvenirs of this
pleasant mile-stone along life's journey. The
writer adds sincere congratulations to the two


Doctors and their family, and thanks for
a very pleasant evening spent among dear
friends and listening to sweet music.
		E. B. W.


