AN INTERESTING LETTER.

Central House, Bridgetown,
	Barbados, West Indies,
		April 2, 1890.
MY DEAR DAISIE:
	Your welcome and most interesting letter
reached me the latter part of last Jan., it was
worthy of an immediate response, but as we were
talking up a trip to the West Indies I thought you
would like better to hear from me while in foreign
parts.

	We left New York Feb., 26th, at noon on the
steamer "Finance" of the U. S. & Brazilian Mail
S. S. Line. A run of twenty four hours brought
us to Newport News, Va., where fruit trees and
spring flowers were all in bloom and the air was
soft and mild. We were delayed there three
days, taking on freight, and left in the midst of a
fearfully cold snow-storm—the severest I have
seen this winter. But a few days later we were
glad to pack away winter wraps and get on some
light, summer underwear. Seven days from New-
port News we made our second stop at the island
of St. Thomas; a Danish possession, and great
coaling station for all nationalities. Our captain
took on sufficient to run his vessel away down to
Santos, below Rio Janerio and return. Every
piece was brought on in baskets on the heads of
colored women and girls, with just a sprinkling of
men. An overseer of their own color stood at
the gang plank with a lash which he used freely
and vigorously over their backs and legs, while
the most fearful oaths fell from the lips of the wo-
men. It was a strange sight, while the sounds
almost made one's hair stand on end. It was a
glorious moonlight night and the land-locked
harbor made an exquisite picture, which we en-
joyed from the Captain's boat as he kindly took
two of us ladies ashore to wander about under
the tropical foliage and along the foreign streets,
with their quaint shops. We were now really
in the Caribbean sea and were not again out of
sight of land.
	The following evening we passed Guadaloupe
just as the moon rose behind her mountains cast-
ing a silvery track across the waters. How we
wished ourselves artists, that we might transfer to
canvas the little schooner under full sail that
flitted out of the shadow of the island, across that
shining track, and as quickly again disappeared
among the shadows! Our third stop was made
on the following morning at Martinique, the
birthplace of the empress Josephine. It was
only five o'clock, so we saw the sun rise behind
the mountains and sunlight creep over the vivid
tropical green of the island. The little city of
St. Pierre looked most picturesque and I longed
to take a run through her large cathedral, but we
only stopped about a half hour. A great, white
statue of the Virgin standing among the green
trees on the hillside, reminded us that it was a
French possession and conseqently a Roman
Catholic community. Between St. Pierre and
Port of France we passed what I believe to be


[Column 1]

﻿the veritable scene which serves as frontispiece
to Abbott's "Life of Josephine." I shall look it
up when I get home. There was a large cocoa-
nut grove on the shore at the foot of the mountain,
under whose waving fronds could be seen the
huts of the native fishermen and their nets spread
out to dry—I have seen it before, I know, in
dream, if not elsewhere.
	At evening of the same day we dropped anchor
in the open roadstead of Bridgetown. As the
"Finance" was to make a stay of several hours
we waited for the moon to rise, so that we were
wild with delight over the novelty of our drive
from the carenage to the hotel. Some how the
moonlight makes wondrously beautiful pictures
and the cacti, tall as trees, and the cocoanut and
cabbage palms shaking their long fronds in the
breezes of the trade wind, not to mention the
southern cross shining just above the horizon
made us realize that it was a bit of landscape
such as we had read and dreamed about it, but
was now to become a reality in our lives. 
	April 6th,—Easter Sunday, and the church
bells have been ringing joyous peals ever since five
o'clock. Barbados being an English possession
the blacks as well as whites belong to the church
of England. Good Friday was a genuine re-
ligious holiday, the streets being even more
quiet than on ordinary Sundays, and no business
man being allowed to let a single clerk into his
store or office on that day under a penalty of £50.
Nine tenths of this densely populated island are
blacks, or "niggers" as they are universally called.
The women dress generally in white, which not
seldom is merely a mass of rags and shreds, so
that we wonder how it is kept on; often in the
country they wear a garment made of bagging
having just a hole through which they put their
heads. They go bare-footed but always wear a
handkerchief tied over their heads. The women,
but not the men, carry all burdens on their heads
thinking nothing of starting off with a half bushel
of sweet potatoes, or eddoes, on their head to
walk miles without resting. About town they
carry wooden trays filled with every imaginable
thing, pea-nuts, glass-ware, and pottery, fancy
cakes, fruit, cocoa-nuts, guavas, water-lemons,
star-apples, star-plums, sapodilla, bananas, and
plantains, bread-fruit, yams, sugar-cane, cracked-
liquor, made of cane juice, hot-sauce, made of
peppers, great bundles of all sorts and kinds, pails
of water, bits of fire wood for their fire-pots—it is
interesting, just to stand at the window and watch
the sights. Tiny donkeys in little carts are con-
stantly clattering by, then there are great hogs-
heads of sugar drawn by five or six mules and
perhaps four or five men perched on the load, but
always with a small boy at a dead run with a lash
in hand which he incessantly applies to the backs
and sides of the poor animals. The whole island
is under high cultivation, sugar being the staple.
As we drive about it seems as though the island
was one garden of canes. We visited the estate
of Fairfield to witness the process of sugar-mak-
ing. Then we spent a whole week in the country
at the sea-side, gathering shells and bathing in
the lovely waters of the Caribbean sea, over
which Columbus sailed when making his dis-
coveries. We've also made excursions to Bath-
sheba on the Atlantic side of the island, and to
the Crane on the south shore. These latter
places we reached by rail, Barbados being the
only one of the Windward group of islands that
is so fortunate as to possess a railroad. The city
of Bridgetown has several tram-way lines also
water-works that give them an abundance of fine
water. The whole island is at present being
piped so as to furnish all the country estates and
villages with good water. It will require a year
or two more to complete the work. The amount
of buiness done here is astonishing. The road-
stead is full of shipping all the time. One day I
was told that there were one hundred and thirty

[Column 2]

seven steamers and vessels in on that day.—
Seven steamers are at this moment on their way
from New York to Barbados and yet it is almost
impossible to get or send mails. During our four
week’s stay we have sent off mail but once. That
of course has both its advantages and disad-
vantages.
	I think I must tell you about one of our all day
excursions. It was a carriage drive to St. John's
church and Codrington college. We started at
seven a. m., as the heat becomes very oppressive
after nine o'clock. We found St. John's to be a
modern and extremely pretty church in the midst
of trees and a quaint, quaint church-yard. It
stands on a high cliff some seven hundred feet
above the sea, and replaces an old church which
was destroyed in the hurricane of 1831. Then we
wandered into the rector's garden, where we dis-
covered a strange, new tree bearing great cones,
so we ventured to rap at the rectory door and ask
if we might take away a cone; well, it resulted in
being invited in and entertained by the rector's
lady with true English hospitality. A drive of
two miles brought us to the College, which we
reached just before the noon chapel service, which
we participated in, and were afterward shown
over the institution by some of the young divinity
students. It is one of the loveliest spots we've
seen—great avenues of cabbage palms, a lakelet
on the grounds,tropical plants of all kinds and the
cool thick-walled buildings, with great arches open-
ing from front to rear showing the blue, blue sea
with its mass of foam on the reefs at the foot of
the cliff. The place had for me just the same
charm as did the Armenian convent on a little
island, near Venice, where Lord Byron used to
delight in spending weeks and weeks in study.
I shall not soon forget it, nor the kind courtesy
of the students.

	I see I must hasten to a close. I do hope you
will spend the coming year in Boston, We ex-
pect to get back to Campello about June 1st,
when I shall hope to hear of your plains. We
are soon to leave this island for Martinique prob-
ably. Our plans are not very definite, as it is
hard to make steamer connections. Father,
mother and Lottie wish to be remembered.
	Yours with love,
