MORE ANTI-MORMON LEGISLATION.

	The bills introduced into the Congress of the
United States this year are the most extraordi-
nary in their character and bearing of any hereto-
fore formulated. The Baskin-Cullom bill to dis-
franchise all Mormons was so extreme that there
seemed a possibility that honest men would
oppose its passage, even though the Governor of
Utah and his colleagues favored it; it is apparent
to all that the whole matter is only a political
scheme to get possession of the Territory and
carry out the wishes of the minority, who have
come here with a little temporary, official authority

[Column 2]

under pretense of enforcing law and order—
where the best of order prevailed and laws were
honored. The Edmund's bill of 1882 was cruel
in itself when it was enforced, it sent hundreds of
men to prison, and broke up families, scattering
and dividing those who were bound together by
the ties of love and friendship, and these things
were done with the pretense that fifty millions of
people in the United States were opposed to
Mormonism, "it was a loathsome ulcer" etc., etc.
The Edmund's bill did not satisfy some of these
radical "regenerators" and so it was supplemented
by the Edmund's-Tucker bill and the Woman's
Industrial Home Association; and the Edmund's-
Tucker bill was enforced and the Judges of the
Courts interpreted law and measures according to
their ideas, and in the Supreme Court of the
United States some cases were argued and
decisions given; meantime the property of the
Church was seized upon and a receiver appointed,
so that between fines, imprisonments, costs of
court, lawyer's fees, and confiscation of property,
one would think the most bitter enemies of the
people might have been satisfied; but it was not
so, though almost all the political offices were
filled by men appointed and in most instances
non-residents, yet it was not severe enough. Men
who had come here without money or influence
 clamored for place and power and failing to get
all, resorted to such methods as would rob the
Mormon people of all rights of citizenship. The
bill known as the Baskin-Cullom bill wanted
Congress to disfranchise without distinction,
every man belonging to the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, for no offence what-
ever, only a standing in the Church.
	This bill extreme as it was found its supporters,
but there were some honorable men, who did not
approve it as a whole, and probably lest that bill
should not be carried through a more indirect
method was concocted to bring about the same
result. The latest is the Thomas-Edmunds bill
which gives the real control of the Territory into
the hands of seven men, the Governor and his sec-
retary and the five Commissioners. The Mormons
the veritable founders of the Territory are to be
mere automatons to be pulled by their political
wires and kept in subjection to their arbitrary will
and authority if this bill passes.
	Whereas under the control of the People's
Party, the Territory prospered and taxes were
light, and the men who had helped to make the
country understood what was necessary for the
prosperity and enterprise of the whole people,—
now instead of carrying out the measures that
secured the rights of citizenship to all, a radical
change of everything is made and an entire new
system to take the place of that which has been
successfully tried. Whether either of these bills
will pass remains to be proven. The last named
bill has been referred to the Judiciary Committee
of the Senate of which Senator Edmunds is him-
self the Chairman—and therefore leaves him in
charge of his own bill.
	Congress has been doing a great deal during
the last few years, and spending a great deal of
time discussing and considering measures to
bring the Mormons to conform to the boasted
civilization of the nineteenth century while this
peculiar people have been pursuing the even tenor
of their way in thrift, enterprise and industry and
proclaiming at home and abroad those true prin-
ciples that lie at the foundation of both the
spiritual and temporal welfare of all mankind.
Obedience to the laws of the land has always
been taught by the "Mormon" people, they have
not been rebellious, but have yielded to authority
of those appointed to office, whether they con-
sidered them able and efficient for the positions
they were chosen to fill or not.
	The Latter-day Saints acknowledge the hand
of an over-ruling Providence and feel assured
that all things will work together for good. The

[Column 3]

Scripture says "He will make the wrath of man
to praise Him nad the remainder He will re-
strain" and we know His word cannot fail there-
fore there is no need to fear, but keep in the path
of duty, which is the path of safety.


