NOTES AND NEWS.

	Eleven women are on the school board in
six cities in Norway.
	Mrs. A. L. Webster edits a woman's colum
in the Oberlin (O.) Exponent.
	MRS. LOGAN is an accomplished carpenter,
and fills her house with skilful conveniences
of her own contriving.
	MISS M. A. FARWELL has opened a public
cocoonery in New Orleans, La. Silk worms
in all stages are on exhibition.
	Mrs. Grover Cleveland has been re-elected
president of the Wells College Alumnae
Association.
	The Princess of Wales is said to be in a
serious condition of health. Her increasing
deafness has resulted in fits of extreme
melancholy. She is now at Sandringham.
	MISS SUSAN B. ANTHONY is in South Dakota
in the interest of the woman suffrage amend-
ment. Her address is care of Mrs. Emma S.
De Voe, Huron, So. Dak.
	Dr. Belle Smith, who is said to be only
twenty-three years old, has been appointed
resident physician of the Woman's Prison at
Sherborn, Mass.

[Column 2]

	Miss Susan B. Anthony and Mrs. Mary
Seymour Howell are addressing a series of
country conventions in South Dakota in the
interest of woman suffrage amendment.
	MISS MAY ROGERS, of Dubuque, Iowa, is
the author of a "Waverly Dictionary," in
which the 1,300 or more characters in Sir
Walter Scott's novels are all described, with
illustrative extracts from the text. The book
is said to be a complete key to Scott's works.
	Miss Braddon, less well-known as Mrs.
Maxwell, is described as fair of skin, sandy of
hair, and stout of figure. She works hard
four days of the week, and plays three days.
Among her recreations are horseback-riding,
play-going, and entertaining her friends, She
is a collector of bric-a-brac, a lover of Dickens,
a genial hostess, and an accomplished cook.
She has published more than fifty novels, is
married to her publisher, who is rich, and
after all the "copy" she has produced she still
writes a legible hand.

	In the Massacdusetts Legislature the bill
reported by the committee on taxation, impos-
ing duties upon legacies and successions,
exempts from its provisions legacies to "a
father, mother, brother, sister, child (whether
by blood or adoption,) grandfather, grand-
mother, grandchild. or daughter-in-law son-in-
law of the decedent;" but it does not exempt
legacies to a wife or to a husband. The
Boston Transcript says:
	"Considering that in very many cases the
accumulation of property by the husband is
in a large measure, if not entirely, due to the
assistance of the wife, it looks a little like in-
justice to compel the latter to pay a five per
cent. tax upon money which though it passes
to her through the form of a will, is in fact as
much hers as it was her husband's, if not
more so.  .........The bill met with opposition
because of the radical change it proposes in
our law and custom, and because, as the
officials contend, the income accruing would
be trifling and by no means commensurate to
the additional labor devolving upon probate
officers and others. If the bill receives proper
discussion. it is believed that sufficient opposi-
tion will develop to defeat its passage even in
the House."
		Woman's Journal.


