BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION.

	Thursday May first was the seventieth anniver-
sary of the birth of Elder Edward Stevenson of
this City. The occasion was appropriately cele-
brated in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, which
were handsomely decorated and furnished with
luxurious easy chairs, sofas, tables etc., for the
evening's entertainment. A large and elegant
oil painting of the gentlemen in honor of whom the
party was given hung above the stand and above
were the figures May 1, 1820, and below 70—1890.
There were between two and three hundred guests
including his immediate family, relatives and
friends; there were many others that Brother and
Sister Stevenson would like to have entertained
but such very large parties are not generally as
enjoyable as where there are fewer in number
and the host and hostess can be sociable with
all.
	Brother Stevenson's daughter and husband re-
turned from New York City the same evening
after a long absence during which time the son-
in-law C. F. Wilcox had graduated from the
Medical College with honors a full fledged M. D.,
the return of the young Dr. and his wife added
much to the pleasure of the assembly.
	A programme had been prepared for the occa-
sion which was carried out in a very creditable
way, music, singing and recitations excellent;
there were also speeches from some of the
veterans present. Bishop Kesler, Bishop McRae,
and one or two others, then Elder Stevenson him-
self, in which he stated that he had been in the
Church from his childhood, and related some of
his peculiar experiences with the Prophet Joseph
and testified of his faith and so on. There were
three original poems read that were written pur-
posely to honor him, one by H. W. Naisbett, one
by Emily H. Woodmansee, and one by Mrs.
Lucy S. Clark of Farmington. They were all
very good. Sister Zina D. H. Young who had
known Brother Stevenson many years, was the
only lady speaker of the evening. She was ac-
companied there by her daughter Mrs. Zina Y.
Card who only just very recently arrived in the
City from Canada, where she has been residing
the past two or three years.
	After the programme was rendered and
speeches made, refreshments were served to all in
the Hall; it was quite an undertaking to wait
upon such a large number of guests, but the
young ladies, who had charge of this part of the
entertainment were thorough in performing their
part gracefully and well. The refreshments had
been daintly prepared, and consisted of sand-
wiches and salad, cakes of all kinds, ice cream,
candies, nuts, oranges and raisins and excellent
lemonade.
	The next in order was the presentation by
Elder H. P. Richards in an appropriate speech of
a few well chosen words, of a handsome gold-
headed cane from Brother and Sister Ezra T.
Clark of Farmington, and a luxurious and elegant
easy chair from his children who reside at Big
Cottonwood. Elder Stevenson responded in a
very happy manner and thanked the donors, and
informed them that he was still young, hale and
hearty, but perhaps ten years hence he might
need the cane and easy chair. He also expressed
himself to the assembled guests as pleased with the
honor shown him, and invited them in the most
hospitable and gracious terms to come and cele-
brate his next tenth anniversary, at which time it
was barely possible that he might need the chair
and the staff.
	An immense fruit cake was now placed upon


the table near the centre of the room; it was quite,
an elaborate [affair, frosted and ornamented and
on the top was] inscribed "E. Stevenson, May 1,
1820—1890. The cake was cut and liberally dis-
tributed [among the guests, almost every one
carrying away a piece of the birthday cake. It
was late when the company dispersed, and all
felt that it had been a very pleasant social affair.
The host and hostess managed the party in ex-
cellent taste, and it was in all respects a brilliant
success. We congratulate Brother and Sister
Stevenson on their good taste and ability to carry
out so large a party. Benediction was pro-
nounced by Elder H. P. Richards after which the
good nights were said and all went away feeling
that old ties of friendship had been renewed and
friends met friends socially without restraint or
embarrassment.
	We cordially extend through the columns of
the EXPONENT the most sincere congratulations
on having attained his seventieth year in the en-
joyment of such excellent health and spirits and
have no doubt that it is mainly due as he believes,
to his observance of the Word of Wisdom. His
health is unimpaired and his whole physique is as
perfect as that of a man of forty. May Brother
Stevenson continue to enjoy health, peace and
contentment is a most earnest prayer of the
writer, it was a time never to be forgotten by any
of those present.


