EDITOR WOMEN'S EXPONENT:
	With pleasure I make a short report of the
labors and progress of the Relief Society of
the Hawaiian Mission of which a general
conference of all the branches was held April
5, at this place; out of the thirty-six branches
now organized only three were not reported in
person; indeed the zeal that was manifested by
many to come to the conference and represent
properly the Society of which they severally
form a part, that quite a number walked all
the way from Honolulu to Laie a distance of
32 miles; one woman carrying a babe of two
months old, a great part of the distance in her
arms. Another sister whose feet were so sore
having walked the whole distance, that it was
with difficulty that she could hobble up to the
pulpit to represent the Society which she pre-
sided over.
	The pride, the joy, and satisfaction coupled
with the out-pouring of the holy-spirit upon
the feeble efforts of our Hawaiian sisters to
do their part toward building up and estab-
lishing the kingdom of God on the-earth, but
adds another testimony that God is no re-
spector of persons, but blesses all without re-
gard to race, or color, who faithfully serve and


obey Him.—Three new branches were or-
ganized during this term. We now have a
membership of 748 showing an increase of
sixty-one members during the last six months
ending March 31st. The Relief Society here
is doing what the Society is doing at home,
namely relieving the poor, caring for the sick,
giving the poor a decent and respectable burial
assisting the traveling Elders, assisting to build
meeting houses, preaching the Gospel &c. &c.
Many have been converted by the sisters
traveling from house to house bearing testi-
mony and preaching the Gospel to them.
	Nearly all the branches have working meet-
ings established which forms a great factor in
obtaining means for the prosecution of their
labors. Some of their quilts are very nice and
are sought after by the well to do people pay-
ing for some as high as twenty dollars, for one
quilt. In writing about my Hawaiian sisters
I have only mentioned their acts of commenda-
tion and praise, there are two sides to a picture,
every picture has its dark side, it is much
more pleasant to look upon the bright side
and will not the great dispenser of justice take
into consideration the circumstances of all His
creatures with mercy, according to the ability
and comprehension of all His creatures. I
will close praying for the prosperity of Zion.
	Your sister in the new and everlasting cove-
nant.
		LUCY M. KING.
	Laie, Hawaiian, Islands, April 10th; 1890.


