[Vol4 | October 1917 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON I Theology and Testimony First Week In November THE N]

Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. Fist Week In November. THE NEW TESTAMENT TIMES. (Readings: Luke 1:46-56; John 12:1-19.) From the fact that Jesus lived a mortal life in the flesh during the first years of the Christian era. the New Testament times will always have a fascination for those who believe in Him and accept Teachings. Thus far in these lessons we have studied the lives of the two women who lived in those days  Elizabeth, the mother of John the Baptist, and Mary, the mother of our Savior. To give anything of a clear and entertaining, not to speak of a complete, account of those time and conditions requires considerable space. We -hall therefore devote this and the following lesson to the one topic, taking different aspects in each. Let us suppose, for the sake of clearness and interest, that you are living at the time of these women in the land of Palestine. What would he the manner of your birth? Into what kind of home would you make your appearance? What things would you see from then till you died? what education receive? whit religious training given? what occupations have? Month before you came into the world you would, of our, he '"expected". And a great deal would he made by your friends as well as by yourself of that expectation. Very likely your mother would have been exceedingly anxious on the question of her having children. For was not the last thing said to her by her mother before all the wedding guests, "May you he the mother of thousand-!" And was taught to believe that to be "barren" was to experience the disfavor of the would have "wrestled in prayer" over the Lord? Maybe matter as to she remove that possible disfavor. Not improbably she fasted as well as prayed. Your mother would be no more inclined to hide the signs of the approaching event than a young woman nowadays is to conceal her engagement ring. Indeed, some of her friends might have seriously consulted the stars in order to determine whether you were to be a boy or a girl. If you had been a "man-child." you would have been accounted by every one, especially by your father, as more desirable. and troops of friends would have come into the house, even on the day of your birth, bringing presents for you and congratulations for your parents on account of the divine gift to them. But being only a girl not so much fuss would be made over you arrival. The first treatment accorded you would be to swaddle you. not in swaddling '"clothes,*' as our version of the Bible improperly puts it. As a preliminary, however, you would be washed by the mid-wife in tepid water and rubbed with pulverized salt. Then you would be sprinkled with reban, "a powder made of dried myrtle leaves." After that the swaddling bands would be applied. "The swaddle," says one who himself was swaddled, "is a piece of stout cloth a yard square, to one corner of which is attached a long narrow band. The infant, with its arms pressed close to its sides, and its feet stretched full length and laid close together, is wrapped in the swaddle, and the narrow band wound around the little body, from the shoulders to the ankles, giving the little one the exact appearance of an Egyptian mummy." And this writer goes on to say that "only a few of the good things of this mortal life were more pleasant to me when I was a boy than to carry in my arms a swaddled babe. The 'salted' and 'peppered' little creature felt so soft and so light, and was so appealing helpless, that to cuddle it was to me an unspeakable benediction." To say of you that you had not been "salted" would be the same as to say that no one knew who your father was. This is why it was such a terrible thing for the ancient prophet to say of apostate Israel, "Thou was not salted at all, nor swaddled at all." Having been thus safely born and "salted," your next task would be to grow up. You would not even think of disobeying your parents, as American children so often do. With us obedience to parents is merely a social obligation, if it is proper to call it an obligation at all. But with the Jews it was not only a social grace, but a religious duty as well. You would be carefully impressed with the fact that God commands you to obey your father an 1 mother. The displeasure of your parents you would fear as much as you would the wrath of God. Such unquestioned filial obedience as this may have put a damper on the spirit of progress among Oriental peoples, but at least it has conserved the primitive virtues among them and preserved the cohesion of the social group. You would be reared in a religious atmosphere of which Americans do not even dream. The main idea in your life would 1 be not the shop or the factory or even dress, but God and your own soul Your mother when she made bread would ask God to bless what she did. Your very speech every day would be a reminder of the religious life. Instead of saying, in answer to a 
 question, "1 am doing well at present," you would say rather, "God is giving bounteously." When you were about to go on a journey your friends would not say, "Take good care of yourself." but "Go. in the keeping and protection of God." You would salute your friends with "God grant you good morning" or "The peace of God come upon you.*' Your father would say to the day laborer, "God give you health and strength," and to those who gathered the increase of the vineyard. "The Lord be with you." Even if you wished to know the nature of anything, you would ask. "What is its religion?" Sometimes you would even speak of water as an "infidel." Thus religion would be your daily speech, not as in other countries and other times a Sunday speech. Most of your life you would spend out of doors. Not that your parents would not have a house. But the house would be used merely as a shelter or refuge from storms. The phrase that spoke of God as a "shelter" or "refuge" would be very significant to you in your Oriental home. Your real home would be on the house-top. This was made for the purpose of being lived on. It would consist of strong beams laid across from one side to the other at a distance of about two or three feet apart, with poles close together over them. These poles would be covered with branches and about twelve inches of earth, rolled hard so as to shed the rain. On this you would sleep, on this you would do much of your eating, on this your father and mother would often pray, and on this the trader would cry out his wares, the "towncrier" shout out his message, and the neighbors call to one another. You would not need to have Christ's words explained to you in which he spoke of the suddenness of his second coming, "Let not other words those in who which are he on declared the house-top that our come down," secret sins nor would those be proclaimed from the house-top. Doubtless you would take great delight in watching the process by which flour was turned into bread. You would see your mother get the flour from the bottom of the earthen barrel in which it was kept, place the flour on one side of the kneading board, with the kneading bowl filled with warm water in which salt had been dissolved. You would watch her as with a "God bless you!" she took out the leaven, a lump of dough which she had kept from the former baking and which she had preserved by burying in flour, dissolve it in the salt water, and literally "hid" it in the measure of flour. After the dough had risen it was made into small loaves, and these your mother took to the public baker's, you probably accompanying her to see what happened. The "oven," as it is called in our English Bible, is "a" huge earthen tube about three feet in diameter and about five feet long: it is sunk in the ground within a small, roughly con structed hut. Not a dozen loaves would your mother bake, but a hundred or two. For a large baking is a matter of pride as well as a means of security. It may be that your mother has the oven all to herself for a whole day. You would readily understand the passage in Leviticus, "When I have broken the staff of your bread, ten women shall bake your bread in one oven, and they shall deliver you your bread again by weight." For not to be able to have a large baking, or to have such a small baking that ten women could use the oven the same day, would be a positive curse. You would also get the full significance, as you looked upon the "billows of black smoke, pierced at intervals by tongues of flame issuing from the deep hole" of the chimneyless hut, of those words of Malachi, "Behold, the day cometh that shall burn as an oven," and those other words of Jesus about "the grass which today is in the field and tomorrow is cast into the oven." branches, For thistles the and fire straw. was fed with large quantities of tree You would know what it is to be hospitable in a way that has never dawned upon the mind of the average Westerner. All invitations would be given in your father's name, or, in case your father was dead, in the name of some other connected male. Instead of your father saying to a stranger merely, "I should like to have you dine with me," as an American would be apt to do, you would perhaps hear a conversation something like the following: Father: Ennoble me with your presence. Stranger: I would be ennobled, but I cannot accept. Father: That cannot be. Stranger: Yea, yea, it must be. Father: No, T swear against you by our friendship and by the life of God. I love to acquaint von with my bread and salt. Stranger: I swear also that I find it impossible to accept. Your bread and salt are known to all. Father: Yea, do it just for our own good. By coming to us you come to your own house. Let us repay your bounty to us. Stranger: By the mercy of God, T have not bestowed any bounty upon you worth mentioning. And the conversation would most likely end by your father seizing the stranger and literally pulling him into the house, with the words, "I will not let you go!" Thus the parable in the New Testament would not be a dark saying to you: "A certain man made a great supper, and bade many * * * And the Lord said unto the servant. Go out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled," 58S RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. QUESTIONS. 1. Why is it necessary to know something about the customs of the Israelites before we can understand the Bible? 2. What is meant by swaddling an infant? 3. What was done as a preliminary to swaddling? 4. Contrast obedience to parents then and now. Do you think the custom of the Israelites  religious atmosphere of those days.