[Vol4 | October 1917 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON III Genealogy and Literature Third Week in November C]

LITERATURE Third Week in September. STORTES FROM SCRIPTURE. "Back to the Bible" is one of the stirring calls in these trying days. Why? Because the Bible is the Book of books. Within its pages are the found tured with the of choicest truths of life Every stories. 'plainly told should home and vividly know pic the Rible; every father should make it a companion, a binding link between him and his children, and every mother should make its stories a means of inculcating the gospel in the hearts of her liltle ones. It is not enough to trust this work to the Sabbath school or other organizations. We should have a scripture story hour frequently in every home. This does not mean that every story in the good book should be given indiscriminately to children. Some stories from scripture cannot beunded stood by the immature child. But there are many stories which are within his grasp. Such tales should be read for his delight and his development. The story of Joseph has been referred to in these lessons before as one of the master stories in all literature. It may be read again and again with never failing charm. Its pictures of the Patriarch Jacob, with his family in their nomadic life, and its following of the fortunes of the pure-minded boy Joseph in his rise from the position of servant to that of prime minister of the great nation of Egypt, wherein he fulfills the dreams of his boyhood, all make a story so dramatic in its appeal as to hold both young and old. The story of Moses is likewise full of interest. Think of the stirring situation that makes the beginning of this tale: The babes of the Israelites are to be slain. To save her boy, the mother of Moses is inspired to set him afloat in an ark of rushes on the Nile where the princess is wont to bathe. This queenlv woman comes, and sees the child. Her heart is touched. She takes the dimpled babe for her own; the little maid in waiting is sent to find a Hebrew nurse, and the child's own mother is brought to rear her own son in the palace of the Pharaoh. Moses is brought up as an Egyptian prince, schooled in all the learning of that people; but his heart is trained by his mother. She holds him in the path of righteousness against all the allurements and the teachings of the worldly-minded Egypt. He rises to be the great leader of his oppressed people, the mighty lawgiver to chosen Israel, delivering them from bondage and restoring them to the Land of Promise. This is a story which should be heard often in our homes. It ought to be a constant source of sweet comfort and inspiration to our Latter-day Saint mothers. Their teachings born of love are often far more powerful to hold the hearts of their children true to the faith than they may imagine. The story of Abraham and Isaac carries also a deep and abiding lesson to those whose souls are ready to receive it a lesson of trust in God and the blessings that come from the spirit of sacrifice. In the story of the expulsion of our first parents from the Garden of Eden is also a lesson of profound significance. How many men and women every day are being driven from their Garden of Eden because of their disobedience to the commandments of the Lord? As has been pointed out before, the Bible story is not only charming in its interest as a literary tale, but it is always true to life and true to truth. Between its lines may ever be found some lesson of vital importance to mankind. The child may not catch this message at first hearing, nor at second. It is not necessary that he does. Let him enjoy the story as a story. Read it in its sweet simple language from the Bible or tell it plainly. The clay will come when its deeper meanings will come to give new joy to his heart. The wooing of Rebecca, the story of Ruth, the birth of Samuel and his boyhood in the temple, are tales that reflect the gentler side of Hebrew life. They breathe an atmosphere of the patriarchal times and customs, of innocence and purity in court- 
 ship and marriage, and the rearing of children. Stories of this kind are too little heard in our homes in these days. We need more of this kind of tales. Another type of story, that challenges the interest of our boys especially, is that which breathes the martial spirit of Israel. The stories of Joshua, of Gideon, and of Samson, of David and Saul, all have a thrilling interest for the martial-minded boy, even as has that other martial scriptural story, the two thousand young Lamanites who followed Ilelaman as related in the Book of Mormon. Such war stories are wholesome. They bring before him heroes whose lives are worth emulating and when they make ishment mistakes, these heroes feel God's swift reproof and pun. Another class of Bible stories that leaves the right feeling in the hearts of boys and girls is that typified by the story of Daniel the boy who learned to live in Babylon and yet partake not of her sins. 1 f any tale is needed among our people today it is such as this. The story of Daniel is in a measure the Word of Wisdom verified. "Daniel," the story tells us, "purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the portion of the king's meat, nor with the wine which he drank, therefore he requested of the prince of the eunuchs that he might not defile himself. "Now God had brought Daniel into favor and tender love with the prince of the eunuchs. "And the prince of the eunuchs said unto Daniel. I fear my Lord the King, who hath appointed your meat and drink. . . Prove thy servants. T beseech thee, ten days; and let them give us pulse to eat, and water to drink. "Then let our countenances be looked upon before thee, and the countenances of the children that eat of the portion of the king's meat; and as thou seest, deal with thy servants. And he assented and proved them ten days. "And at the end of ten days their countenances appeared fairer and fatter in flesh than all the children which did eat the portion of the king's meat. "Thus Melzar took away the portion of their meat, and the wine that they should drink; and gave them pulse. "As for these four children, God gave them knowledge and skill in all learning and wisdom: and Daniel had understanding in all visions and dreams" (Daniel 1:8-17). In these days when physical vigor and clearness of mind and strength of spirit are all so vital, the story of Daniel, and the Word of Wisdom which his ways of life exemplified should come to us with added force. The New Testament stories also are ever new. From the sweet story of the angels and the shepherds to the tragic tales of Calvary, there is a never failing interest for all earnest, pure minded people, old and young. Turn to any part of the New Testament and you will find some story breathing the gentle spirit of the Master. Every one carries a divine lesson in the clearest, simplest language. The adoration of the magi, the boy Jesus in the temple, the miracle at Cana, the stilling of the tempest, the raising of Lazarus, the woman at the well, the anguish in Gethsemane, the crucifixion and the resurrection, with the other stories that are there woven together make the greatest story ever told, and each and every one is like a prayer and a benediction. The parables of Christ, too  those of the talents, the sewer, the prodigal son, and others are also filled with truth and wisdom. In addition to all these stories from the Old and the New Testaments, the Latter-day Saints have a wealth of scriptural stories in the Book of Mormon. This gift to the people in he last dispensation is filled with wholesome and intensely interesting tales which are holding the attention of readers everywhere. The Book of Mormon quietly through its stories is preaching the gospel to all nations and peoples. The story of the wanderings of Lehi and his sons, the struggles between the Nephites and the Lamanites in this land, and the tragic close of it all at Cumorah make many tales of dramatic interest. These may yet be the basis for expression through music, art, and literature. A scripture story hour in every home frequently or at least every Sabbath day might do much to stir in the hearts of both parents and children a clearer understanding and a deeper appreciation of these stories, and it would certainly be a means of creating a greater love for the sacred books God has given to us. LESSON OUTLINE. 1. Give a reason why the stories of the Bible are ever new. 2. Be ready to tell one of these stories from scripture and point out the lesson of life that it carries. 3. What great consolation for mothers may come from the story of Moses? 4. What pictures of Hebrew life are brought out in the story of Ruth? 5. Why are the Bible heroes generally good for boys to emulate? 6. What lesson of especial force is emphasized in the story of Daniel? 7. Tell some story from the New Testament that has especially comforted or impressed you. 8. What Book of Mormon story do you best remember?