[Vol7 | September 1920 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: The Official Round Table]
The Official Round Table
OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 541 It might be interesting to know that those chosen as offices were representing five nationalities. It is wonderful how the gospel can blend such a cosmopolitan group of women into such unity. English, Hawaiian, German, Chinese, and Spanish all with a testimony of the divinity of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Canadian Mission. The Canadian Mission Relief Society was organized on August 1, 1919, with Mrs. Margaret S. Jensen, wife of President Nephi Jensen, as president. The branches are: Bracebridge, Brantford, Hamilton, Preston, Toronto, and Winnipeg. The combined total membership is fifty-eight members. During the year of 1919 this branch disbursed $59.60 for charity purposes. Relief Society visitors spent 104 days with the sick and made 138 special visits to the sick. New Stakes — Cache-Logan. On June 5, 1920, Cache stake was divided, the northern division retaining the name of Cache stake and the southern division to be known as the Logan stake. The stake officers and board members of the old Cache stake who had served faithfully and well, were honorably released. Mrs. Minnie B. Caine, formerly second counselor in the old stake, was appointed president of the Cache stake Relief Society, and Mrs. Ellen Barber, a member of the former stake board, was appointed president of the Logan stake. The general board desires to express grateful appreciation for the splendid work done by Mrs. Lucy S. Cardon and her co-workers during the many years they have labored faithfully and incessantly in the interest of Relief Society work in the Cache stake. Oneida-Franklin. The Oneida stake was divided on June 6, 1920, into what will now be known as the Oneida stake and the Franklin stake. Mrs. Nellie P. Head, who was serving as stake Relief Society president at the time of the division, was retained as president of the new Oneida stake. Mrs. Veroka G. Nash was appointed president of the Franklin stake. Duchesne-Roosevelt. The Duchesne stake was divided on June 26, 1920. One division will retain the name of Duchesne stake, while the other division will be known as Roosevelt stake. Mrs. Clara Hanson, who has for several years presided over the Duchesne stake, was appointed president of the New Roosevelt stake. Mrs. Evelyn Moflfat was appointed president of the Duchesne stake.
