[Column 1]
they are learned they are not required of
us again.
	How exquisitely has God made physical
man. So sensitive, so delicately nerved
that his flesh fairly quivers with sensitive-
ness, feeling the pressure of the evening
breeze, the touch of a friend, the prick of
the thorn; susceptible almost to the un-
seen, is this physical man; and yet is he
thrown in the midst of the most cruel en-
vironments. In every hour of his life he
is threatened by foes from without
and foes from within. This man
so delicate, so sensitive, so exquisi-
tely made and vibrant with life and feel-
ing! Was it not intended that he suffer?
Pain is nature’s danger signal. We learn
by what we suffer, and when once the
child burns its little hand, it has learned
a law, and it does not need to be taught
again.
	Compared with the physical man, the
spiritual man is still more refined and deli-
cate,—so responsive, so sympathetic is
that part of man that a ohord of music
may cause the heart to well with emotion;
the smile of a friend may fill the soul with
delight, and even unseen influences are
palpable to the soul, so exquisite is its
nature. Yet God has sent that soul into
this world of woe, surrounded by a harsh
environment of evil and sin, encountered
in all their fury. And these dark powers
are permitted to make attack upon the
soul. And why? That we may gain ex-
perience and prove true to the best that
is in us. And here upon the battle ground
of mortality, that we might win glory,
honor, and eternal life. That is why we
are here; that is the philosophy of life,
as I am led to believe.
	We should assemble around the grave
and around the remains of one whose life
is closed, with these thoughts in our
minds. Here is a life that ends in a su-
perb victory; a woman who has been true
to every trust imposed upon her, true to
her own divine nature and origin—a
mother successful, a wife adored. And
as such we stand around her, as in the
presence of the holiest and the purest. May
God preserve her memory green to all of
us, and may his sustaining influence be
with those whom she leaves behind,
though it be but for a short time, as has
been said, when they shall be reunited—
not as angels, but as mother, as wife, as
friend. These ties of the family are
eternal; and they shall be renewed in
that holy relationship, just as soon as
those whom she leaves behind follow in
her path. And may God preserve them
that they may be true and faithful that
this reuniting may be a holy one, a happy
one. May peace be upon the congrega-
tion, and all who bear this sorrow. May
they be given strength to endure, and hope
and light to peer through the darkness, is
my prayer through Christ our suffering
Lord. Amen.

	Sister Catherine Perkes McAllister was
born in Liverpool, England, February 16,
1846. Came to Utah in 1861 with her
parents and family. Joined the Taber-
nacle choir in that year and continued a
member of that organization, and of the
Old Folks’ choir until her death. Be-
came the wife of Elder Duncan M. Mc-
Allister in i866. Was the mother of seven
children, two of whom died in infancy,
the others are living, respected members

[Column 2]
of the community, and there are five
grandchildren. The bereaved husband
and children are comforted by the assur-
ance the Gospel gives, that she has
earned a celestial reward.
	Poem by Sister Bertha Anderson Klein-
man. Lovingly inscribed to the memory
of her dear friend, Catherine Perkes Mc-
Callister.
		THE FIELDS SUBLIME.
“God’s acres”—what treasures are borne thro’
		your gates
	From the arms reaching out to restrain;
What rivers course silently into your gloom
	From the tears that fall daily like rain;
What mystery hangs over your harvest to be,
Yet how faint is the veil to the eyes that will see.
What promise and longings are melted to mist
	At your portals all shrouded and stern,
When the hearts that are silent pass into their
		rest,
	And the hearts that are aching return,
Yet pure and effulgent all day slanting down,
Is the light on the graves that consumes all your
		frown.
Blest fields with your seed undisturbed thro' the
		years,
	While the storms of men’s strife thunder near,
Where the voices of loved ones creep back to en-
		treat,
	And answer our longing—“Not here.”
Where over the echo of dust upon dust,
	Their anthem soars peacefully upward—“Trust,
		trust.”
Fair mounds closing over the best of our hopes,
	Your mystery can sound no despair,
In the brave souls ensheathed in the armor of
		faith,
	Who smile thro’ their tears gazing there;
For the firm hand that chastens is mighty to
		heal
And his touch is all love to the hands that will
		feel.
God’s favored are they who have treasures in
		bloom
	Mid the hush of “His acres” above,
For heaven were lonely that promised no joy
	Of reunion with those we have loved,
And deepest to wound but the strongest to save
Are the memories that cling to a precious one’s
		grave.


